TO : High and Illustrious King of Bohemia , [ wh ] ich God hath bestowed upon them in their Royal Issue , [ re ] joycing to all that wish their Happiness . THen ( spite of all that do their State molest ) They in their Princely Children are much blessed . This King and Queen , who list's their Actions try , Shall find them patterns of true Constancy . And that they still with Noble fortitude , And courage , all Adversities subdued . Their Patience every other virtue Crowns , It hath made Fortune weary of her frowns . Shee sees their Courage can no way be shaken , And that her labour's lost , which she hath taken , She therefore begins to turn her fickle wheel , To make Bohemia's foes her flattery feel . It's not great Armies , Cannons , Roaring Drums , But a good Cause and Courage overcomes . The means to Victory , and fair Renown , Is to let Fortitude keep Terror down : And patience in all Chances is a thing , Which noble Actions to perfection bring . And how can they be any way dismayed , That still are guarded by th'Almighties Aid ? For those that will but note from first to last , The dangers and the perils they have passed , And how they still have been preserved from those , That to subvert them , round did them enclose : Note but these things , and men will understand , They have been still protected with Gods hand . Let no rash Censures , or sad Malecontents , Measure men worth according to th'events , For he that Heaven and earthly Kingdoms sways , Does measure men's proceedings otherways . Illustrious Mansfield , God still guide thy Sword , Against th'opposers of his Sacred word : Thou art approved and thy truth is seen , In serving of this Royal King and Queen , As thou hast done , brave General so proceed , And God with Glory , then will Crown thy meed . And stout Renowned , beloved , Right noble Vere , Thy Valour to the Heavens thy Fame shall rear ; Thou ( with much danger ) hast opposed the hate , Of the fierce foes to the Palatinate . Triumphant Victory fit on thy Helm , Which may thine Enemies all overwhelm ; Thy friends and foes Report where ere they go , Thou art a Constant friend , a Noble foe . Thus I commend to Gods Almighty Grace , The King , the Queen , and all their Princely Raze ; Their faithful Subject's , and their constant Friends , Whose wishes or whose power their good intends . Live all beloved , and whensoever you die , Ascend and put on Immortality . FINIS . Printed at London by Edw : All [ --- ] de , for Henry Gosson . TO : High and Illustrious King of Bohemia , [ wh ] ich God hath bestowed upon them in their Royal Issue , [ re ] joycing to all that wish their Happiness . THen ( spite of all that do their State molest ) They in their Princely Children are much blessed . This King and Queen , who list's their Actions try , Shall find them patterns of true Constancy . And that they still with Noble fortitude , And courage , all Adversities subdued . Their Patience every other virtue Crowns , It hath made Fortune weary of her frowns . Shee sees their Courage can no way be shaken , And that her labour's lost , which she hath taken , She therefore begins to turn her fickle wheel , To make Bohemia's foes her flattery feel . It's not great Armies , Cannons , Roaring Drums , But a good Cause and Courage overcomes . The means to Victory , and fair Renown , Is to let Fortitude keep Terror down : And patience in all Chances is a thing , Which noble Actions to perfection bring . And how can they be any way dismayed , That still are guarded by th'Almighties Aid ? For those that will but note from first to last , The dangers and the perils they have passed , And how they still have been preserved from those , That to subvert them , round did them enclose : Note but these things , and men will understand , They have been still protected with Gods hand . Let no rash Censures , or sad Malecontents , Measure men worth according to th'events , For he that Heaven and earthly Kingdoms sways , Does measure men's proceedings otherways . Illustrious Mansfield , God still guide thy Sword , Against th'opposers of his Sacred word : Thou art approved and thy truth is seen , In serving of this Royal King and Queen , As thou hast done , brave General so proceed , And God with Glory , then will Crown thy meed . And stout Renowned , beloved , Right noble Vere , Thy Valour to the Heavens thy Fame shall rear ; Thou ( with much danger ) hast opposed the hate , Of the fierce foes to the Palatinate . Triumphant Victory fit on thy Helm , Which may thine Enemies all overwhelm ; Thy friends and foes Report where ere they go , Thou art a Constant friend , a Noble foe . Thus I commend to Gods Almighty Grace , The King , the Queen , and all their Princely Raze ; Their faithful Subject's , and their constant Friends , Whose wishes or whose power their good intends . Live all beloved , and whensoever you die , Ascend and put on Immortality . FINIS . Printed at London by Edw : All [ --- ] de , for Henry Gosson . 