A new Ballad , composed in commendation of the Society , or Company of the Porters . TO the tune of , In Edenbrugh , behold . At the first went we , as here you see . But since our Corporation , on this fashion . And to our Hall , thus we go all . TO Hrise blessed is that Land where King and Rulers be , and men of great Command that careful are to see , that careful are to see , the Commons good mantainde by friendly unity , the prop of any land . Then blessed is this Land by our dread sovereigns reign , whose prudence in command , does all estates maintain : [ ? ] to comfort all is unto all extended rich , poor , both great and small , are by his care defended . As plainly does appear , by that was lately done , for them that burdens bear , and do on business run : the Porters of this City , some being men of Trade , but now the more , the more the pity by crosses are decayde . Yet bearing honest minds , their charge for to maintain , as Gods command them binds , with travel and with pain : they all have wisely joined , for that they have effected , their company to bind and make it more respected . Now they that were before of meanest estimation , by suit have salvde that soar , and gainde a Corporation : excludes , and shuts out many that were of base esteem , and will not suffer any such person bide with them . But such as well are known , and honest Acts embrace : among them theile have none ( as near as they can find ) but such as well are known to bear and honest mind . For now unto their hall they pay their quarteridge down , attending masters call , and fearing masters frown , there seeking for redress and right if they have wrong , there , they that do trangresse have that to them does long . If there be any one of them , a burden takes , and with the same be gone : their hall , the owner makes sufficient satisfaction for that , that he hath left : the thief without redemption , out of their numbers crossed . It is a better order then that they had before , when as the malefactor was on a coultstaffe boar : for th'owner this much better , but for offender worse , to taste this new made order , then ride a wooden horse . That shame was soon slipped over , soon in oblivion drowned , and then again , another would in like fault be found : not caring for their credit , and trust another time , this order therefore as a bit to hold them from that crime . They that are rash , and rude , and obstinately run as their own wills conclude , and cannot well be won to condescend , and stand to order they have made , by the Rulers out of hand , have fines upon them laid . All jars and braules are barred that amongst them might arise , first commer , first is served , where as a burden lies , if one be ready there he must his profit take : all other must forbear and no resistance make . Such as have long been known to use this bearing trade , and into years are grown , ( so that their strengths decayde ) they can no longer labour as they have done before , the Company does succour and maintain evermore . These and a many more good order they have , sure , to make rude fellows know their stoutness , does procure but their own detriment and loss , if they could see't : and likewise so augment their general good , there meet . For great is the number of this Society : and many without order can never settled be , but things will be amiss , as oft it hath been known , the number of them is , a thousand fortie one . They all met together , most handsomely arayde , at Christ church , to hear there a sermon , for them made . There marks of Admittaince made out of tin , they bore about their necks in ribbons : the chief , of silver wear . To have seen them so , you'd wonder , so many should maintain themselves , by such a labour , but that , thats god with pain , God does increase and bless : for good himself hath said , with pain and weariness , we all should get our bred . Thus therefore I conclude , more happy men are they , then many that delude the world , and bear away the sweet of poor men's labour their chests to cram and stuff , nor caring for Gods favour , so they have gold enough . Our royal King and Queen thou King of Kings defend , as thou to them hast been most merciful and kind : thy love to them increase , bless all they undertake : His Counsels counsel , bless , Even for thy deer sons sake . FINIS . Tho. Brewer . Imprinted at London by Thomas Creed , and are to be sold at the sign of the Eagle and child , in the old Change . 1605. A new Ballad , composed in commendation of the Society , or Company of the Porters . TO the tune of , In Edenbrugh , behold . At the first went we , as here you see . But since our Corporation , on this fashion . And to our Hall , thus we go all . TO Hrise blessed is that Land where King and Rulers be , and men of great Command that careful are to see , that careful are to see , the Commons good mantainde by friendly unity , the prop of any land . Then blessed is this Land by our dread sovereigns reign , whose prudence in command , does all estates maintain : [ ? ] to comfort all is unto all extended rich , poor , both great and small , are by his care defended . As plainly does appear , by that was lately done , for them that burdens bear , and do on business run : the Porters of this City , some being men of Trade , but now the more , the more the pity by crosses are decayde . Yet bearing honest minds , their charge for to maintain , as Gods command them binds , with travel and with pain : they all have wisely joined , for that they have effected , their company to bind and make it more respected . Now they that were before of meanest estimation , by suit have salvde that soar , and gainde a Corporation : excludes , and shuts out many that were of base esteem , and will not suffer any such person bide with them . But such as well are known , and honest Acts embrace : among them theile have none ( as near as they can find ) but such as well are known to bear and honest mind . For now unto their hall they pay their quarteridge down , attending masters call , and fearing masters frown , there seeking for redress and right if they have wrong , there , they that do trangresse have that to them does long . If there be any one of them , a burden takes , and with the same be gone : their hall , the owner makes sufficient satisfaction for that , that he hath left : the thief without redemption , out of their numbers crossed . It is a better order then that they had before , when as the malefactor was on a coultstaffe boar : for th'owner this much better , but for offender worse , to taste this new made order , then ride a wooden horse . That shame was soon slipped over , soon in oblivion drowned , and then again , another would in like fault be found : not caring for their credit , and trust another time , this order therefore as a bit to hold them from that crime . They that are rash , and rude , and obstinately run as their own wills conclude , and cannot well be won to condescend , and stand to order they have made , by the Rulers out of hand , have fines upon them laid . All jars and braules are barred that amongst them might arise , first commer , first is served , where as a burden lies , if one be ready there he must his profit take : all other must forbear and no resistance make . Such as have long been known to use this bearing trade , and into years are grown , ( so that their strengths decayde ) they can no longer labour as they have done before , the Company does succour and maintain evermore . These and a many more good order they have , sure , to make rude fellows know their stoutness , does procure but their own detriment and loss , if they could see't : and likewise so augment their general good , there meet . For great is the number of this Society : and many without order can never settled be , but things will be amiss , as oft it hath been known , the number of them is , a thousand fortie one . They all met together , most handsomely arayde , at Christ church , to hear there a sermon , for them made . There marks of Admittaince made out of tin , they bore about their necks in ribbons : the chief , of silver wear . To have seen them so , you'd wonder , so many should maintain themselves , by such a labour , but that , thats god with pain , God does increase and bless : for good himself hath said , with pain and weariness , we all should get our bred . Thus therefore I conclude , more happy men are they , then many that delude the world , and bear away the sweet of poor men's labour their chests to cram and stuff , nor caring for Gods favour , so they have gold enough . Our royal King and Queen thou King of Kings defend , as thou to them hast been most merciful and kind : thy love to them increase , bless all they undertake : His Counsels counsel , bless , Even for thy deer sons sake . FINIS . Tho. Brewer . Imprinted at London by Thomas Creed , and are to be sold at the sign of the Eagle and child , in the old Change . 1605. 