And excellent Ballad of the Mercers son of Midhurst , and the Clothiers Daughter of Guilford . To the tune of , Dainty come thou to me . TO Here was a wealthy man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his trade , as many yet can tell : he had a youthful son , whom fancy so did move , he cried night and day alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , beauty disdains me : the Clothiers daughter deer , works my extremity . She hath my heart in hold , that did most cruel prove : Thus cried he night and day , alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , fortune so soar does frown : The Jewel of my heart dwells in Guilford Town . There lies the Lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , alcake I die for love . Alack I die for love , and can no comfort find : The Clothiers daughter deer bears so high a mind . Sweet beauty's paragon , fair Venus silver dove : Sweet Phillis pity me , alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , while thou dost laugh and smile Let not thy pleasure be true love for to beguile : My life lies in thy hands , then as it does behove Slay not the Mercers son , alack I die for love . If that my beauty bright does grieve thy sighed quoth she , Then let the Mercers son , turn still his face from me . I do no man disdain , nor can I cruel prove , My tongue must still say nay , where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , lovers oft I must shun : The Clothiers daughter thus answers the Mercers son . I bear no lofty mind , yet pity cannot move My mind to fancy him , where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , I must his suit deny , For though I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy . Thou art too found a man life's danger thus to prove , I'll not wed good friend John , where my heart cannot love . What good can there befall to that now married wife , Where goods & amp ; wealth is small ? want causeth daily strife : But where is wealth at will , experience plain does prove , Though love at first be small yet goods increases love : Yet goods increases love , and I will never wed , But where a key of gold open the doors to bed . For she may merry be , what chance soever hap , Where bags of money come tumbling within her lap . Tumbling within her lap , while she her gold does tell , With such a husband , Sir , I do delight to dwell . Were he young , were he old , deformed , or fair in show , My pleasure still should be where treasure still does flow . Where treasure still does flow , is that our mind quoth he ? My father will bestow as much as comes to thee , Hadst thou five hundred pounds , five hundred pound beside , My father will afford , if thou wilt be my bride . If thou wilt be my bride , thus much I understand , My Father will give me his house and eke his Land. So that while he do live , with us he may remain : What says my hearts delight , this is a bargain plain . This is a bargain plain , quoth she , I am content , So he perform this thing , I give thee my consent , And I will merry be , my mind shall not remove Thou shalt be my sweet heart , I'll be thine own true love . I'll be thine own true love , then use no more delay , I greatly long to see our happy marriage day , To Midhurst all in haste goes the Mercers son , He told his father deer , his true love he hath wone . The old man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his son , of all his house and land : When he had done this deed , he wept full bitterly , Saying , my own deer son thou must be good to me . Well worth two hundred pound this morning I was known , But the clothes to my back , nothing now is mine own , And all this I have done deer son to pleasure thee , Think on thy father's love , and deal thou well with me . Dear father , ( quoth the son ) if I do not do so , God pour upon my head hight vengeance , grief and woe . The young man wedded was to his fair lovely bride , But wondrous grief and care thereof there did betide . As after you shall hear , in the old men complaint , A tale of greater grief , cannot your hearts attaint : A warning by this thing , all men shall understand , Lest they do come to live under their children's hand . Finis . And excellent Ballad of the Mercers son of Midhurst , and the Clothiers Daughter of Guilford . To the tune of , Dainty come thou to me . TO Here was a wealthy man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his trade , as many yet can tell : he had a youthful son , whom fancy so did move , he cried night and day alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , beauty disdains me : the Clothiers daughter deer , works my extremity . She hath my heart in hold , that did most cruel prove : Thus cried he night and day , alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , fortune so soar does frown : The Jewel of my heart dwells in Guilford Town . There lies the Lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , alcake I die for love . Alack I die for love , and can no comfort find : The Clothiers daughter deer bears so high a mind . Sweet beauty's paragon , fair Venus silver dove : Sweet Phillis pity me , alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , while thou dost laugh and smile Let not thy pleasure be true love for to beguile : My life lies in thy hands , then as it does behove Slay not the Mercers son , alack I die for love . If that my beauty bright does grieve thy sighed quoth she , Then let the Mercers son , turn still his face from me . I do no man disdain , nor can I cruel prove , My tongue must still say nay , where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , lovers oft I must shun : The Clothiers daughter thus answers the Mercers son . I bear no lofty mind , yet pity cannot move My mind to fancy him , where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , I must his suit deny , For though I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy . Thou art too found a man life's danger thus to prove , I'll not wed good friend John , where my heart cannot love . What good can there befall to that now married wife , Where goods & amp ; wealth is small ? want causeth daily strife : But where is wealth at will , experience plain does prove , Though love at first be small yet goods increases love : Yet goods increases love , and I will never wed , But where a key of gold open the doors to bed . For she may merry be , what chance soever hap , Where bags of money come tumbling within her lap . Tumbling within her lap , while she her gold does tell , With such a husband , Sir , I do delight to dwell . Were he young , were he old , deformed , or fair in show , My pleasure still should be where treasure still does flow . Where treasure still does flow , is that our mind quoth he ? My father will bestow as much as comes to thee , Hadst thou five hundred pounds , five hundred pound beside , My father will afford , if thou wilt be my bride . If thou wilt be my bride , thus much I understand , My Father will give me his house and eke his Land. So that while he do live , with us he may remain : What says my hearts delight , this is a bargain plain . This is a bargain plain , quoth she , I am content , So he perform this thing , I give thee my consent , And I will merry be , my mind shall not remove Thou shalt be my sweet heart , I'll be thine own true love . I'll be thine own true love , then use no more delay , I greatly long to see our happy marriage day , To Midhurst all in haste goes the Mercers son , He told his father deer , his true love he hath wone . The old man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his son , of all his house and land : When he had done this deed , he wept full bitterly , Saying , my own deer son thou must be good to me . Well worth two hundred pound this morning I was known , But the clothes to my back , nothing now is mine own , And all this I have done deer son to pleasure thee , Think on thy father's love , and deal thou well with me . Dear father , ( quoth the son ) if I do not do so , God pour upon my head hight vengeance , grief and woe . The young man wedded was to his fair lovely bride , But wondrous grief and care thereof there did betide . As after you shall hear , in the old men complaint , A tale of greater grief , cannot your hearts attaint : A warning by this thing , all men shall understand , Lest they do come to live under their children's hand . Finis . 