TO : A new Ballad entitled , the stout Cripple of Cornwall , wherein is showed his dissolute life and deserved death . To the tune of , the blind Beggar . O F a stout Cripple that kept the high way , and begged for his living all time of the day , A story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , the Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . He crept on his hands and his knees up and down , in a torn Jacket and ragged patched Gown : For he had never a leg to the knee , the Cripple of Cornwall sir [ - ] nam was he . He was of stomach courageous and stout , for he had no cause to complain of the Gout : To go upon stilts most cunning was he , with a staff on his neck gallant and free . Yea , no good fellowship would he forsake , were it in secret a purse for to take : His help was as good as any might be , the Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . When he upon any such service did go , the crafty young Cripple provided it so : His tools he kept close in and old hollow Tree , that stood from the City a mile two or three . Thus all the day long he begged for relief , and late in the night he played the false Thief : And seven years together this custom kept he , and no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers went on the way , but unto the Cripple for passage did pay , And every brave Merchant that he did descry , he emptied their purses ere they passed by . The gallant Lord Courtney both valiant and bold , road forth with great plenty of silver and Gold : At Exeter there a purchase to pay . but that the false Cripple his journey did stay . For why the false Cripple herd tidings of late , as he lay for alms at this Nobleman's gate : What day and what hour his journey should be , this is ( quoth the Cripple ) a booty for me . Then to his Companions the matter he moaned , which their like actions beforetime had proned : They make themselves ready & amp ; deeply they swear this moneys' their own before they come there . Upon his two stilts the Cripple does mount , to have his best share he makes his account : All clothed in Canvas down to the ground , he takes up his standing his mates with him round Then comes the L. Courtney with half a scoremen that little suspecting these thieves in their den : And they perceiving them come to their hand , in a dark evening they bid him to stand . Deliver thy purse quoth the Cripple with speed , for we be good fellows and thereof have need : Not so , quoth Lord Courtney , but this I tell thee , win it , and wear it , else get none of me . With that the Lord Courtney stood in his defence , and so did his servants , but ere they went [ hence ] Two of the true men were slain in the fight , and foure of the thieves were put to their flight And while for their safeguard they ran thus away , the jolly bold Cripple did hold the rest play : And with his pikestaff he wounded them so , as they were unable to run or to go . With fight the L. Courtney was driven out of breath and most of his servants wounded to death : Then came other horsemen riding so fast , the Cripple was forced to fly at the last , And over a River that ran there beside , which was very deep and eighteene foot wide : With his long staff and his stilts leapt he , and shifted himself in and old hollow Tree . Then thorough the Country was hue and cry made , to have these thieves apprehended and stayed : The Cripple he creeps on his hands and his knees , and on the high way great posting he sees . And as they came riding he begging does say , Oh give me one penny , good Master , I pray : And thus unto Exeter creeps he along , no man suspecting that he had done wrong . Anon the Lord Courtney he spied in the street he comes unto him and kisses his feet : Saying , God save your honour & amp ; keep you from ill , and from the hands of your enemies still . Amen qouth L. Courtney , and therewith flung down unto the poor Cripple and English Crown : Away went the Cripple and thus he did think , 500 . pounds more would make me to drink . In vain that hue and cry it was made , they found none of them though the Country was laid : But this grieved the Cripple both night and day , that he so unluckily missed of his prey . Nine hundred pounds this Cripple had god , by begging and robbing so good was his lot , A thousand pound he would make it he said , and then he would quite give over his trade . But as he strived his mind to fulfil , in following his actions so lewd and so ill , At last he was taken the law to suffice , condemned and hanged at Exeter [ size ] . Which made all men amazed to see , that such and impotent person as he , Should venture himself to such actions as they , to rob in such sort upon the high way . F I N I S. London , Printed for J . W . TO : A new Ballad entitled , the stout Cripple of Cornwall , wherein is showed his dissolute life and deserved death . To the tune of , the blind Beggar . O F a stout Cripple that kept the high way , and begged for his living all time of the day , A story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , the Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . He crept on his hands and his knees up and down , in a torn Jacket and ragged patched Gown : For he had never a leg to the knee , the Cripple of Cornwall sir [ - ] nam was he . He was of stomach courageous and stout , for he had no cause to complain of the Gout : To go upon stilts most cunning was he , with a staff on his neck gallant and free . Yea , no good fellowship would he forsake , were it in secret a purse for to take : His help was as good as any might be , the Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . When he upon any such service did go , the crafty young Cripple provided it so : His tools he kept close in and old hollow Tree , that stood from the City a mile two or three . Thus all the day long he begged for relief , and late in the night he played the false Thief : And seven years together this custom kept he , and no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers went on the way , but unto the Cripple for passage did pay , And every brave Merchant that he did descry , he emptied their purses ere they passed by . The gallant Lord Courtney both valiant and bold , road forth with great plenty of silver and Gold : At Exeter there a purchase to pay . but that the false Cripple his journey did stay . For why the false Cripple herd tidings of late , as he lay for alms at this Nobleman's gate : What day and what hour his journey should be , this is ( quoth the Cripple ) a booty for me . Then to his Companions the matter he moaned , which their like actions beforetime had proned : They make themselves ready & amp ; deeply they swear this moneys' their own before they come there . Upon his two stilts the Cripple does mount , to have his best share he makes his account : All clothed in Canvas down to the ground , he takes up his standing his mates with him round Then comes the L. Courtney with half a scoremen that little suspecting these thieves in their den : And they perceiving them come to their hand , in a dark evening they bid him to stand . Deliver thy purse quoth the Cripple with speed , for we be good fellows and thereof have need : Not so , quoth Lord Courtney , but this I tell thee , win it , and wear it , else get none of me . With that the Lord Courtney stood in his defence , and so did his servants , but ere they went [ hence ] Two of the true men were slain in the fight , and foure of the thieves were put to their flight And while for their safeguard they ran thus away , the jolly bold Cripple did hold the rest play : And with his pikestaff he wounded them so , as they were unable to run or to go . With fight the L. Courtney was driven out of breath and most of his servants wounded to death : Then came other horsemen riding so fast , the Cripple was forced to fly at the last , And over a River that ran there beside , which was very deep and eighteene foot wide : With his long staff and his stilts leapt he , and shifted himself in and old hollow Tree . Then thorough the Country was hue and cry made , to have these thieves apprehended and stayed : The Cripple he creeps on his hands and his knees , and on the high way great posting he sees . And as they came riding he begging does say , Oh give me one penny , good Master , I pray : And thus unto Exeter creeps he along , no man suspecting that he had done wrong . Anon the Lord Courtney he spied in the street he comes unto him and kisses his feet : Saying , God save your honour & amp ; keep you from ill , and from the hands of your enemies still . Amen qouth L. Courtney , and therewith flung down unto the poor Cripple and English Crown : Away went the Cripple and thus he did think , 500 . pounds more would make me to drink . In vain that hue and cry it was made , they found none of them though the Country was laid : But this grieved the Cripple both night and day , that he so unluckily missed of his prey . Nine hundred pounds this Cripple had god , by begging and robbing so good was his lot , A thousand pound he would make it he said , and then he would quite give over his trade . But as he strived his mind to fulfil , in following his actions so lewd and so ill , At last he was taken the law to suffice , condemned and hanged at Exeter [ size ] . Which made all men amazed to see , that such and impotent person as he , Should venture himself to such actions as they , to rob in such sort upon the high way . F I N I S. London , Printed for J . W. 