A marvellous Medicine to cure a great pain , If a Maidenhead be lost to get it again . To a pleasant new tune . O Nce busy in study betwixt night and day , with choice of inventions I had in my mind , And many odd matters my mind did assay , but any to please me I could not well find : Then suddenly casting the nose in the wind , I smelled out a Medicine both precious and plain , How to help silly Maidens that had been somewhat kind to get by good order their Maidenhead again . First the Maid must be brought into a sleep , for three hours together before she awake , And seven days after this diet must keep , with these kind of compounds the which she must take , She must eat neither rost-meate , sod , neither bake , but all kind of dainties she must refrain , Save only this medicine , the which if she take , then it will restore her Maidenhead again . The first day give her the slime of and Eel , blown through a Bagpipe with the wind of a bladder , With two or three turnings of a spinning wheel , boiled in and Eggshell , and strained through a ladder : The tongue of and Urchin , the sting of and Adder , boiled in a blanket in a shower of rain , With seven notes of music to make her the gladder , and it will restore her maidenhead again . The second day give her the peeping of a Mouse , with three drops of thunder that falls from the sky , And temper it with three leaps of a Louse , and put therein three skips of a Fly , With a gallon of water of a Widow's eye , that weeps for her husband when death hath him slain , Let her take this medicine and drink by and by , and it will restore her maidenhead again . The third day give her the chattering of a Sparrow , roasted in Mitten of untaned Leather , Give it her with the rumbling of a wheelbarrow , and baste it with three yards of a black Swans feather , The juice of a Whetstone thereto put together , with the fart of a Fryer brought hither from Spaine Let her lay all these in and ell of Louse leather , and lay warm to her belly to help her great pain . The fourth day give her the song of a Swallow , well tempered with Marrow wrung out of a log , With three pound and better of Stockfish tallow hard fried in the left horn of a Butchers blue dog , With the gaggling of a Goose , & amp ; the frisk's of a Frog the bill of a shovel , or a Humble-bees brain : Give her this tasting , with the grunting of a Hog , and it will restore her maidenhead again . The fift day give her betwixt eight a clock and nine , some gruel of Grantum made for the nonce , The brains of a birdbolt powdered very fine , and beatrice in a Mortar of Ginne-wrens bones , Boiled in a nutshell betwixt two millstones : with the guts of a Gudgin before she be stain : Let her be sure to drink all this at once , and it will restore her maidenhead again . Now mark well the sixt day what must be her trade , she must have a Woodcock , a Snipe , or a Quail , Baked fine in and Oven before it be made , and mingle it with the blood of a Snail , With foure or five Inches of a Jacke-an apes tail : what though for a while it put her to pain , Yet let her take it without any fail , and it will restore her maidenhead again . The seventh day give her a pound of Maids moths , brayed in a basket of danger and blame , With conserves of Coleworts bound in a box , to comfort her stomach with the syrup of shame : Although she be passed all hope of good name , and unto her honesty a very great stain . Let her take it to remedy the same , and it will restore her maidenhead again . Loe these are our Medicines for Maidens each one , which in their Virginity amiss somewhat fell , Pray you if ever you hear them make moan , and gladly would know the place where I dwell , At the sign of the Whip and the Eggshell , near Pancake alley on Salisbury Plain , There shall they find remedy using this well or else never to recover their maidenhead again . Printed at London for H . G.A marvellous Medicine to cure a great pain , If a Maidenhead be lost to get it again . To a pleasant new tune . O Nce busy in study betwixt night and day , with choice of inventions I had in my mind , And many odd matters my mind did assay , but any to please me I could not well find : Then suddenly casting the nose in the wind , I smelled out a Medicine both precious and plain , How to help silly Maidens that had been somewhat kind to get by good order their Maidenhead again . First the Maid must be brought into a sleep , for three hours together before she awake , And seven days after this diet must keep , with these kind of compounds the which she must take , She must eat neither rost-meate , sod , neither bake , but all kind of dainties she must refrain , Save only this medicine , the which if she take , then it will restore her Maidenhead again . The first day give her the slime of and Eel , blown through a Bagpipe with the wind of a bladder , With two or three turnings of a spinning wheel , boiled in and Eggshell , and strained through a ladder : The tongue of and Urchin , the sting of and Adder , boiled in a blanket in a shower of rain , With seven notes of music to make her the gladder , and it will restore her maidenhead again . The second day give her the peeping of a Mouse , with three drops of thunder that falls from the sky , And temper it with three leaps of a Louse , and put therein three skips of a Fly , With a gallon of water of a Widow's eye , that weeps for her husband when death hath him slain , Let her take this medicine and drink by and by , and it will restore her maidenhead again . The third day give her the chattering of a Sparrow , roasted in Mitten of untaned Leather , Give it her with the rumbling of a wheelbarrow , and baste it with three yards of a black Swans feather , The juice of a Whetstone thereto put together , with the fart of a Fryer brought hither from Spaine Let her lay all these in and ell of Louse leather , and lay warm to her belly to help her great pain . The fourth day give her the song of a Swallow , well tempered with Marrow wrung out of a log , With three pound and better of Stockfish tallow hard fried in the left horn of a Butchers blue dog , With the gaggling of a Goose , & amp ; the frisk's of a Frog the bill of a shovel , or a Humble-bees brain : Give her this tasting , with the grunting of a Hog , and it will restore her maidenhead again . The fift day give her betwixt eight a clock and nine , some gruel of Grantum made for the nonce , The brains of a birdbolt powdered very fine , and beatrice in a Mortar of Ginne-wrens bones , Boiled in a nutshell betwixt two millstones : with the guts of a Gudgin before she be stain : Let her be sure to drink all this at once , and it will restore her maidenhead again . Now mark well the sixt day what must be her trade , she must have a Woodcock , a Snipe , or a Quail , Baked fine in and Oven before it be made , and mingle it with the blood of a Snail , With foure or five Inches of a Jacke-an apes tail : what though for a while it put her to pain , Yet let her take it without any fail , and it will restore her maidenhead again . The seventh day give her a pound of Maids moths , brayed in a basket of danger and blame , With conserves of Coleworts bound in a box , to comfort her stomach with the syrup of shame : Although she be passed all hope of good name , and unto her honesty a very great stain . Let her take it to remedy the same , and it will restore her maidenhead again . Loe these are our Medicines for Maidens each one , which in their Virginity amiss somewhat fell , Pray you if ever you hear them make moan , and gladly would know the place where I dwell , At the sign of the Whip and the Eggshell , near Pancake alley on Salisbury Plain , There shall they find remedy using this well or else never to recover their maidenhead again . Printed at London for H.G. 