A sweet and pleasant Sonnet , entitled : My mind to me a kingdom is . To the tune of , In Creet , etc , M Y mind to me a Kingdom is , such perfect joys therein I find , It far exceeds all earthly bliss , that world affords , or grows by kind : Though much I want that most men have , Yet does my mind forbid me crave . Content I live , this is my stay , I seek no more then may suffice , I press to bear no haughty sway , look what I lack my mind supplies : Lo , thus I triumph like a King , Content with that my mind does bring . I see how plenty surfeits oft , and hasty climbers oft do fallen , I see how those that fit aloft , mishap does threaten most of all , They get , they toil , they spend with care , Such cares my mind could never bear . I laugh not at another's loss , I grudge not at another's gain , No wordly wave my mind can toss , I brook that is another's bane : I fear no foe , I scorn no friend , I dread no death , I fear no end . Some have too much , yet still they crave , I little have , yet seek no more , They are but poor , though much they have , And I am rich with little store , They poor , I rich , they beg , I give , They lack , I lend , they pine , I live . My wealth is health and perfect ease . my conscience clear , my chief defence : I never seek by bribes to please , nor by desert to give offence : Lo thus I live , thus will I die , Would all did so as well as I . No princely pomp , no wealthy store , no force to get the victory , No wily wit to salve a soar , no shape to win a Lovers eye , To none of these I yield as thrall , For why my mind despises all . I joy not at and earthly bliss , I weigh not Cresus wealth a straw , For Care , I care not what it is , I fear not Fortune's fatal law : My mind is such as may not move , For beauty bright or force of love : I wish not what I have at will , I wander not to seek for more , I like the plain , I climb no hill , in greatest storm I fit on shore , And laugh at those that toil in vain , To get that must be lost again . I kiss not were I wish to kill , I feign no love where most I hate , I break no sleep to win my will , I wait not at the mighties gate , I scorn no poor , I fear no rich , I feel no want , nor have too much . The Court , ne Cart , I like , ne loath , extremes are counted worst of all , The golden mean betwixt them both , does surest fit , and fears no fallen : This is my choice , for why I find , No wealth is like a quiet mind . FINIS . Printed at London for H. G . A sweet and pleasant Sonnet , entitled : My mind to me a kingdom is . To the tune of , In Creet , etc , M Y mind to me a Kingdom is , such perfect joys therein I find , It far exceeds all earthly bliss , that world affords , or grows by kind : Though much I want that most men have , Yet does my mind forbid me crave . Content I live , this is my stay , I seek no more then may suffice , I press to bear no haughty sway , look what I lack my mind supplies : Lo , thus I triumph like a King , Content with that my mind does bring . I see how plenty surfeits oft , and hasty climbers oft do fallen , I see how those that fit aloft , mishap does threaten most of all , They get , they toil , they spend with care , Such cares my mind could never bear . I laugh not at another's loss , I grudge not at another's gain , No wordly wave my mind can toss , I brook that is another's bane : I fear no foe , I scorn no friend , I dread no death , I fear no end . Some have too much , yet still they crave , I little have , yet seek no more , They are but poor , though much they have , And I am rich with little store , They poor , I rich , they beg , I give , They lack , I lend , they pine , I live . My wealth is health and perfect ease . my conscience clear , my chief defence : I never seek by bribes to please , nor by desert to give offence : Lo thus I live , thus will I die , Would all did so as well as I . No princely pomp , no wealthy store , no force to get the victory , No wily wit to salve a soar , no shape to win a Lovers eye , To none of these I yield as thrall , For why my mind despises all . I joy not at and earthly bliss , I weigh not Cresus wealth a straw , For Care , I care not what it is , I fear not Fortune's fatal law : My mind is such as may not move , For beauty bright or force of love : I wish not what I have at will , I wander not to seek for more , I like the plain , I climb no hill , in greatest storm I fit on shore , And laugh at those that toil in vain , To get that must be lost again . I kiss not were I wish to kill , I feign no love where most I hate , I break no sleep to win my will , I wait not at the mighties gate , I scorn no poor , I fear no rich , I feel no want , nor have too much . The Court , ne Cart , I like , ne loath , extremes are counted worst of all , The golden mean betwixt them both , does surest fit , and fears no fallen : This is my choice , for why I find , No wealth is like a quiet mind . FINIS . Printed at London for H. G. 