A pleasant Country Maying Song . To the tune of the Popes Machina . I N this merry Maying time , Now comes in the Summer prime . Country Damsels fresh and gay , Walk abroad to gather May : In and evening make a match , In a morning bows to fatch . Well is she that first of all , Can her lover soonest call , Meeting him without the town , Where he gives his Love a gown . Tib was in a gown of grey , Tom he had her at a bay . Hand in hand they take their way , Catching many a roundelay , Greeting her with a smile , Kissing her at every style . Then he leaves her to the Spring , Where the Primrose reigneth king . Upon a bed of Violets blew , Down he throws his Lover true . She puts finger in the eye , And checks him for his quality . She bids him to her mother's house , To Cakes & amp ; Cream & amp ; Country souse . He must tell her all his mind , But she will sighs and stay behind . Such a country play as this , The maids of our town cannot miss . They will in a morning gay , Deck themselves and gather May . Then they will go crop the flowers , Amongst the leaves and Country bowers . When our maidens meet together , There is praying for fair weather . Glad are they to see the Sun , That they may play when work is dONE . Some at Dancings make a show , If they can get leave to go . Young men will for maidens sakes , Give them Sugar , Cream & amp ; Cakes With a cup of dainty Wine , And it must be neat and fine . Some of them for their good cheer , Plays three quarters of a year . Thou at the first I liked well , Cakes and Cream do make me swell . This pretty maiden waxes big See what it's to play the Rig Up she decks her white and clean , To trace the meadows fresh and green Or to the good town she will weened Where she points to meet her [ riend . Her gown was tucked above the knee , Her milkwhite smock that you may see . Thus her amorous Love and she , Sports from eight a clock till three . All the while the Cuckoo sings , Towards the evening home she slings , And brings with her and Oaken bow , With a Country Cake or two . Straight she tells a solemn tale , How she herd the Nightingale , And how each meadow greenly springs : But yet not how the Cuckoo sings . In the merry Maying time , Love is in her chiefest prime . What for Gentlemen and Clowns , Our country maids can want no gowns . Syllabub and dainty cheer , Young men lack not all the year . All the maidens in the street . With the bonny Yonkers meet . All the while the grass is green , And the Dasies grow between , Dicke and Tom do walk the fields , Still to trip up maidens heals . Thus the Robin and the Thrush , Music make in every bush . While they charm their pretty notes , Young men hurl up maidens coats . But because I will do them no wrong , Here I end my Maying song , And wish my friends take heed in time , How they spend their Summer's prime . FINIS . Printed at London for TO . L.A pleasant Country Maying Song . To the tune of the Popes Machina . I N this merry Maying time , Now comes in the Summer prime . Country Damsels fresh and gay , Walk abroad to gather May : In and evening make a match , In a morning bows to fatch . Well is she that first of all , Can her lover soonest call , Meeting him without the town , Where he gives his Love a gown . Tib was in a gown of grey , Tom he had her at a bay . Hand in hand they take their way , Catching many a roundelay , Greeting her with a smile , Kissing her at every style . Then he leaves her to the Spring , Where the Primrose reigneth king . Upon a bed of Violets blew , Down he throws his Lover true . She puts finger in the eye , And checks him for his quality . She bids him to her mother's house , To Cakes & amp ; Cream & amp ; Country souse . He must tell her all his mind , But she will sighs and stay behind . Such a country play as this , The maids of our town cannot miss . They will in a morning gay , Deck themselves and gather May . Then they will go crop the flowers , Amongst the leaves and Country bowers . When our maidens meet together , There is praying for fair weather . Glad are they to see the Sun , That they may play when work is dONE . Some at Dancings make a show , If they can get leave to go . Young men will for maidens sakes , Give them Sugar , Cream & amp ; Cakes With a cup of dainty Wine , And it must be neat and fine . Some of them for their good cheer , Plays three quarters of a year . Thou at the first I liked well , Cakes and Cream do make me swell . This pretty maiden waxes big See what it's to play the Rig Up she decks her white and clean , To trace the meadows fresh and green Or to the good town she will weened Where she points to meet her [ riend . Her gown was tucked above the knee , Her milkwhite smock that you may see . Thus her amorous Love and she , Sports from eight a clock till three . All the while the Cuckoo sings , Towards the evening home she slings , And brings with her and Oaken bow , With a Country Cake or two . Straight she tells a solemn tale , How she herd the Nightingale , And how each meadow greenly springs : But yet not how the Cuckoo sings . In the merry Maying time , Love is in her chiefest prime . What for Gentlemen and Clowns , Our country maids can want no gowns . Syllabub and dainty cheer , Young men lack not all the year . All the maidens in the street . With the bonny Yonkers meet . All the while the grass is green , And the Dasies grow between , Dicke and Tom do walk the fields , Still to trip up maidens heals . Thus the Robin and the Thrush , Music make in every bush . While they charm their pretty notes , Young men hurl up maidens coats . But because I will do them no wrong , Here I end my Maying song , And wish my friends take heed in time , How they spend their Summer's prime . FINIS . Printed at London for T.L. 