The Tragedy of Phillis , complaining of the disloyal Love of Amyntas . To a pleasant new Court Tune . AMyntas on a Summer's day , to shun Apollo's beams , Was driving of his flocks away , to taste some cooling streams , And through a Forest as he went , unto a river side , A voice which from a grove was sent invited him to bide . The voice well seemed for to bewray some malcontented mind : For oft times did he hear it say , Ten thousand times unkind . The remnant of that raging moan , did all escape his ear : For every word brought forth a groan , and every groan a tear . And nearer when he did repair , both face and voice he knew : He saw that Phillis was come there , her plaints for to renew : Thus leaving her unto her plaints , and sorrow-slaking groans : He herd her deadly discontents , thus all break forth at once . Amyntas , is my love to thee of such a light account , That thou disdainest to look on me , or love as thou wast wont ? Were those the oaths that thou didst make , the vows thou didst conceive , When I for thy contentment's sake , mine hearts delight did leave ? How oft didst thou protest to me , the Heavens should turn to nought : The Sun should first obscured be , ere thou wouldst change thy thought ? Then Heaven , dissolve without delay : Sun show thy face no more , Amyntas love is lost for aye , and woe is me therefore . Well might I , if I had been wise , foreseen what now I find : But too much love did fill mine eyes , and made my judgement blind : But ah , alas ! the'effect does prove , thy drifts were but deceit , For true and undissembled love , will never turn to hate . All thy behavours were ( God knows ) too smooth and too discreet : Like Sugar which empoisoned grows , suspect because its sweet : Thine oaths & amp ; vows did promise more then well thou couldst perform , Much like a claim that comes before and unsuspected storm . God knows , it would not grieve me much for to be killed for thee : But o ! too near it does me touch , that thou shouldst murder me : God knows , I care not for the pain can come for loss of breath : It's thy unkindness , cruel Swain , that grieves me to the death . Amyntas , tell me , if thou may , if any fault of mine Hath given thee cause thus to betray mine hearts delight and thine ? No not alas it could not be , my love to thee was such , Unless if that I urged thee , in loving thee too much . But ah ; alas , what do I gain , by these my found complaints ? My dolour double thy disdain , my grief thy joy augments : Although it yield no greater good , it oft does ease my mind : For to reproach ingratitude of him who is unkind . With that her hand cold , wan , and pale , upon her breast she lays : And seeing that her breath did fail , she sighs , and then she says , Amyntas ; and with that poor maid , she sighed again full soar : That after that she never said , nor sighed nor breathed no more . FINIS . R. A . The Tragedy of Phillis , complaining of the disloyal Love of Amyntas . To a pleasant new Court Tune . AMyntas on a Summer's day , to shun Apollo's beams , Was driving of his flocks away , to taste some cooling streams , And through a Forest as he went , unto a river side , A voice which from a grove was sent invited him to bide . The voice well seemed for to bewray some malcontented mind : For oft times did he hear it say , Ten thousand times unkind . The remnant of that raging moan , did all escape his ear : For every word brought forth a groan , and every groan a tear . And nearer when he did repair , both face and voice he knew : He saw that Phillis was come there , her plaints for to renew : Thus leaving her unto her plaints , and sorrow-slaking groans : He herd her deadly discontents , thus all break forth at once . Amyntas , is my love to thee of such a light account , That thou disdainest to look on me , or love as thou wast wont ? Were those the oaths that thou didst make , the vows thou didst conceive , When I for thy contentment's sake , mine hearts delight did leave ? How oft didst thou protest to me , the Heavens should turn to nought : The Sun should first obscured be , ere thou wouldst change thy thought ? Then Heaven , dissolve without delay : Sun show thy face no more , Amyntas love is lost for aye , and woe is me therefore . Well might I , if I had been wise , foreseen what now I find : But too much love did fill mine eyes , and made my judgement blind : But ah , alas ! the'effect does prove , thy drifts were but deceit , For true and undissembled love , will never turn to hate . All thy behavours were ( God knows ) too smooth and too discreet : Like Sugar which empoisoned grows , suspect because its sweet : Thine oaths & amp ; vows did promise more then well thou couldst perform , Much like a claim that comes before and unsuspected storm . God knows , it would not grieve me much for to be killed for thee : But o ! too near it does me touch , that thou shouldst murder me : God knows , I care not for the pain can come for loss of breath : It's thy unkindness , cruel Swain , that grieves me to the death . Amyntas , tell me , if thou may , if any fault of mine Hath given thee cause thus to betray mine hearts delight and thine ? No not alas it could not be , my love to thee was such , Unless if that I urged thee , in loving thee too much . But ah ; alas , what do I gain , by these my found complaints ? My dolour double thy disdain , my grief thy joy augments : Although it yield no greater good , it oft does ease my mind : For to reproach ingratitude of him who is unkind . With that her hand cold , wan , and pale , upon her breast she lays : And seeing that her breath did fail , she sighs , and then she says , Amyntas ; and with that poor maid , she sighed again full soar : That after that she never said , nor sighed nor breathed no more . FINIS . R. A. 