The complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus . To a pleasant new tune . P Oore Harpalus , oppressed with love , sat by a crystal Brook : Thinking his sorrows to remove , ofttimes therein did look : And hearing how on pebble stones , the murmuring river ran , As if it had bewailed his groans , unto it thus began . Fair stream ( quoth he ) that pities me and hears my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea : as I do now suppone : Attend my plaints passed all relief , which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea-Nimphs with the grief which still procures my death . Who sitting in the cliffy Rocks , may in their songs express , While as they comb their golden locks , poor Harpalus distress And so perhaps some passenger , that passes by the way , May stay and listen for to hear them sing this doleful Lay , Poor Harpalus , a Shepherd Swain , more rich in youth then store : Loved fair Philena hapless man , Philena , o therefore : Who still remorceless hearted maid , took pleasure in his pain : And his good will , poor soul , repaid with undeserved disdain . Near Shepherd loved a Shepherdess , more faithfully then he : Near Shepherd yet beloved less of Shepherdess could be : How oft did he with dying looks , to her his woes impart ? How oft his sighs did testify the dolour of his heart ? How oft from Valleys to the Hills did he his grief rehearse ? How oft reechoed they his ills , aback again ( alas ? ) How of on Barks of stately Pines , of Beech , of Holly-green , Did he engrave in mournful lines , the grief he did sustain ? Yet all his plaints could have no place , to change Philena's mind : The more his sorrows did increase , the more she proved unkind : The thought thereof with wearied care , poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high despair , he lost both life and Love . FINIS . D.M. At London Printed for H . G.The complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus . To a pleasant new tune . P Oore Harpalus , oppressed with love , sat by a crystal Brook : Thinking his sorrows to remove , ofttimes therein did look : And hearing how on pebble stones , the murmuring river ran , As if it had bewailed his groans , unto it thus began . Fair stream ( quoth he ) that pities me and hears my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea : as I do now suppone : Attend my plaints passed all relief , which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea-Nimphs with the grief which still procures my death . Who sitting in the cliffy Rocks , may in their songs express , While as they comb their golden locks , poor Harpalus distress And so perhaps some passenger , that passes by the way , May stay and listen for to hear them sing this doleful Lay , Poor Harpalus , a Shepherd Swain , more rich in youth then store : Loved fair Philena hapless man , Philena , o therefore : Who still remorceless hearted maid , took pleasure in his pain : And his good will , poor soul , repaid with undeserved disdain . Near Shepherd loved a Shepherdess , more faithfully then he : Near Shepherd yet beloved less of Shepherdess could be : How oft did he with dying looks , to her his woes impart ? How oft his sighs did testify the dolour of his heart ? How oft from Valleys to the Hills did he his grief rehearse ? How oft reechoed they his ills , aback again ( alas ? ) How of on Barks of stately Pines , of Beech , of Holly-green , Did he engrave in mournful lines , the grief he did sustain ? Yet all his plaints could have no place , to change Philena's mind : The more his sorrows did increase , the more she proved unkind : The thought thereof with wearied care , poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high despair , he lost both life and Love . FINIS . D.M. At London Printed for H.G. 