A comfortable new Ballad of a Dream of a Sinner , being very soar troubled with the assaults of Sathan . To the tune of Rogero . I n slumbering sleep I lay all night alone in bed , A vision very strange there come into my head , Me thought the day of doom undoubtedly was come , And Christ himself was there to judge both all and some . My self was sent for there with found of Trumpet shrill , Which said , All souls come hear your sentence good or ill . I sat in mind amazed , at that same sudden voice , For in mine own good life no whit I could rejoice . With panting breast I paused at that same sudden sighed , Not trusting to my self , but to Christs mercies great . I was no sooner mean , but Sathan came , me thought , With him a role full large of all my life he brought . And laid before the Lord how that I was his own , And would have had me then , my sins so great were grown . I quaking lay with fear , and wist not what to do , But in the blood of Christ I trusted still unto . Then said our Saviour Christ , foul Sathan end thy strife , Look if the sinners name be in the book of life . If he be entered there , then must he needs be blessed , His sins be washed away , his soul with me shall rest . Then Sathan took the book , did leaf by leaf unfold , And there he found my name in letters limbed with gold . Then Sathan sorrowed much at that same sudden sighed . And said unto the Lord , thy Judgements are not right . And thus our Saviour sweet said to him by and by , Thou , Sathan , knowest full well that I for sin did die . Redeeming all the world , once overthrown by thee , And so will save all such as truly trust in me . My mortal foe was wroth , that he had lost his prey , Extremely vexed was , and vanished quite away . But I that thus was billed within that blessed book , Out of my slumbering sleep so joyfully awoke . Still praying to the Lord , that always sinners may From Sathan be set free , at the last dreadful day . That after earthly toils , we may heaven joys a [ ttain ] e , Here learn to live to [ die ] that we may live [ a ] gain . Our noble royal King , God grant him long to reign , To live in joy and peace , the Gospel to maintain . London Printed for E. Wright . FINIS . A comfortable new Ballad of a Dream of a Sinner , being very soar troubled with the assaults of Sathan . To the tune of Rogero . I n slumbering sleep I lay all night alone in bed , A vision very strange there come into my head , Me thought the day of doom undoubtedly was come , And Christ himself was there to judge both all and some . My self was sent for there with found of Trumpet shrill , Which said , All souls come hear your sentence good or ill . I sat in mind amazed , at that same sudden voice , For in mine own good life no whit I could rejoice . With panting breast I paused at that same sudden sighed , Not trusting to my self , but to Christs mercies great . I was no sooner mean , but Sathan came , me thought , With him a role full large of all my life he brought . And laid before the Lord how that I was his own , And would have had me then , my sins so great were grown . I quaking lay with fear , and wist not what to do , But in the blood of Christ I trusted still unto . Then said our Saviour Christ , foul Sathan end thy strife , Look if the sinners name be in the book of life . If he be entered there , then must he needs be blessed , His sins be washed away , his soul with me shall rest . Then Sathan took the book , did leaf by leaf unfold , And there he found my name in letters limbed with gold . Then Sathan sorrowed much at that same sudden sighed . And said unto the Lord , thy Judgements are not right . And thus our Saviour sweet said to him by and by , Thou , Sathan , knowest full well that I for sin did die . Redeeming all the world , once overthrown by thee , And so will save all such as truly trust in me . My mortal foe was wroth , that he had lost his prey , Extremely vexed was , and vanished quite away . But I that thus was billed within that blessed book , Out of my slumbering sleep so joyfully awoke . Still praying to the Lord , that always sinners may From Sathan be set free , at the last dreadful day . That after earthly toils , we may heaven joys a [ ttain ] e , Here learn to live to [ die ] that we may live [ a ] gain . Our noble royal King , God grant him long to reign , To live in joy and peace , the Gospel to maintain . London Printed for E. Wright . FINIS . 