A most excellent Ballad , of and old man and his wife , who in their great want and misery sought to Children for succour , by whom they were disdained , and scornfully sent away succourless , and Gods vengeance showed upon them for the same . To the tune of Priscilla . I TO was and old man which with his poor wife in great distress did fallen : They were so feeble with age God wot , they could not work at all . A gallant Son they had , which lived wealthily : To him they went with full intent , to ease their misery . Alack and alas for woe , etc A hundred miles when they had gone , with many a weary step : At length they saw their Sons fair house , which made their hearts to leap . They sat them on the green , their shoes and hose to trim : To put clean bans about their necks , against they should enter in . Alack , etc Unto the door with trembling joints , when those old couple came : The woman with a shaking head , the old man blind and lame : Full mannerly they knocked , fearing for to offend : At last their Son does frowningly come unto them in the end . Alack , etc Good folks , quoth he , what would you have here , me thinks you are too bold ? Why get you not home to your Country now you are lame and old ? With that they both replied , with sorrow , care , and grief : Here are we come to thee our Son , for succour and relief . Alack , etc This is thy Father ( gentle Son ) and I thy loving Mother : That brought thee up so tenderly , and loved thee above all other : I bore thee in this womb , these breasts did nourish thee : And as it chanced , I often danst thee on my tender knee . And humbly now we thee entreat , my deer and loving Son : That thou wilt do for us in our age , as we for thee have done . Nay nay , not so , he said , your suit is all in vain : This best for you , I tell you true , to get you home again . Alack , etc The world is not now as when I was born all things are grown , more deer : My charge of Children likewise is great , as plainly does appear . The best that I can do , will hardly them maintain : Therefore I say , be packing away , and get you home again . Alack , etc The old man with his hat in his hand , full many a leg did make : The woman wept and wrung her hands , and prayed him for Christ his sake Not so to send them back , distressed and undone : But let us lie in some Bairn hereby , quoth she , my loving Son . Alack , etc By no means would he thereto consent , but sent them soon away : Quoth he , You know the peril of Law , if long time here you stay : The stocks and the whipping post will fallen unto your sha [ r ] e : Then take you heed , and with all speed , to your Country do repair . Alack , etc Away then went this woeful old man , full sad in heart and mind : With weeping tears his wife did lament their Son was so unkind . Thou wicked Child , quoth they , for this thy cruel deed , The Lord send thee as little pity when thou dost stand in need . Alack and alas for woe , etc His children hearing their Father set his Parents thus at nought : In short time after to have his Land , his death by subtlety wrought : What cause have we , quoth they , more kindness to express , Then he unto his Parents did in their great wretchedness ? Alack and alas for woe , etc They murdered him in pitiful sort , they waid not his intreats , The more he prayed compassionately , the greater were their threats , Speak not to us , quoth they , for thou the death shalt die : And with that word , with dagger & amp ; swo [ rd ] they mangled him monstrously . Alack and alas for woe , etc When they had god his silver and gold , according to their mind : They buried him in a stinking ditch , where no man should him find . But now behold and see , Gods vengeance on them all : To gain their gold , their Cousin came , and slew them great and small . Alack and alas for woe . He came among them with a great clu [ b ] in dead time of the night , Yea two of the Sons he brained therewi [ th ] and taking of his flight , The murderer taken was , and suffered for the same : Deserved for their cruelty , this vengeance upon them cam [ e ] Alack and alas therefore , Alack and alas therefore . F I N I S Printed at London by E. [ A. ] A most excellent Ballad , of and old man and his wife , who in their great want and misery sought to Children for succour , by whom they were disdained , and scornfully sent away succourless , and Gods vengeance showed upon them for the same . To the tune of Priscilla . I TO was and old man which with his poor wife in great distress did fallen : They were so feeble with age God wot , they could not work at all . A gallant Son they had , which lived wealthily : To him they went with full intent , to ease their misery . Alack and alas for woe , etc A hundred miles when they had gone , with many a weary step : At length they saw their Sons fair house , which made their hearts to leap . They sat them on the green , their shoes and hose to trim : To put clean bans about their necks , against they should enter in . Alack , etc Unto the door with trembling joints , when those old couple came : The woman with a shaking head , the old man blind and lame : Full mannerly they knocked , fearing for to offend : At last their Son does frowningly come unto them in the end . Alack , etc Good folks , quoth he , what would you have here , me thinks you are too bold ? Why get you not home to your Country now you are lame and old ? With that they both replied , with sorrow , care , and grief : Here are we come to thee our Son , for succour and relief . Alack , etc This is thy Father ( gentle Son ) and I thy loving Mother : That brought thee up so tenderly , and loved thee above all other : I bore thee in this womb , these breasts did nourish thee : And as it chanced , I often danst thee on my tender knee . And humbly now we thee entreat , my deer and loving Son : That thou wilt do for us in our age , as we for thee have done . Nay nay , not so , he said , your suit is all in vain : This best for you , I tell you true , to get you home again . Alack , etc The world is not now as when I was born all things are grown , more deer : My charge of Children likewise is great , as plainly does appear . The best that I can do , will hardly them maintain : Therefore I say , be packing away , and get you home again . Alack , etc The old man with his hat in his hand , full many a leg did make : The woman wept and wrung her hands , and prayed him for Christ his sake Not so to send them back , distressed and undone : But let us lie in some Bairn hereby , quoth she , my loving Son . Alack , etc By no means would he thereto consent , but sent them soon away : Quoth he , You know the peril of Law , if long time here you stay : The stocks and the whipping post will fallen unto your sha [ r ] e : Then take you heed , and with all speed , to your Country do repair . Alack , etc Away then went this woeful old man , full sad in heart and mind : With weeping tears his wife did lament their Son was so unkind . Thou wicked Child , quoth they , for this thy cruel deed , The Lord send thee as little pity when thou dost stand in need . Alack and alas for woe , etc His children hearing their Father set his Parents thus at nought : In short time after to have his Land , his death by subtlety wrought : What cause have we , quoth they , more kindness to express , Then he unto his Parents did in their great wretchedness ? Alack and alas for woe , etc They murdered him in pitiful sort , they waid not his intreats , The more he prayed compassionately , the greater were their threats , Speak not to us , quoth they , for thou the death shalt die : And with that word , with dagger & amp ; swo [ rd ] they mangled him monstrously . Alack and alas for woe , etc When they had god his silver and gold , according to their mind : They buried him in a stinking ditch , where no man should him find . But now behold and see , Gods vengeance on them all : To gain their gold , their Cousin came , and slew them great and small . Alack and alas for woe . He came among them with a great clu [ b ] in dead time of the night , Yea two of the Sons he brained therewi [ th ] and taking of his flight , The murderer taken was , and suffered for the same : Deserved for their cruelty , this vengeance upon them cam [ e ] Alack and alas therefore , Alack and alas therefore . F I N I S Printed at London by E. [ A. ] 