Calebbe Shillocke , his Prophesy : or , the Jewes Prediction . To the tune of Bragandarie . TO O Caleb Shillocks prophecies , Who list to lend and ear , Of grief , and great calamity , A sad Discourse shall hear : Of Plagues ( for sin ) shall soon ensue Prognosticated by this Jew : Oh Lord , Lord in thy mercy , Hold thy heavy hand . And first , within this present year , Being Sixteene hundreth seav'n : The Prince of Planets shall appear , Like flaming Fire in heaven , Like flaming Fire his radiant rays To all shall seem ( old Shillock says . ) O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , Hold thy heavy hand . No mortal man shall able be , ( As he affirms ) to look Upon this fearful Progedie , This sinners bloody Book : this book , by which he soon may know the cause of all our grief and woe . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc For he that dares to gaze upon The Sun , so dreadfull-bright , Shall never after gaze upon And object sad , or light : But suddenly be stricken blind , As leaves are shaken with the wind . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc And next to this , old Shillock says , The waters shall arise , And set a perjod to the days Of many found , and wise : And all that knowed by eye , or ear , shall stand ( almost ) distracted with fear . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc And after this hath played his part , In Calebs Scroll I find , Another woe to wound the heart , And terrify the mind : The winds ( he says ) shall strangely blow And strong-built Houses overthrow . O Lard , Lord in thy mercy , etc With greater Waters after this , The Earth shall plagued be , So soar our God incensed is , By our impiety : So soar a Flood since godly Noe , As is to come , near man did know , Oh Lord Lord in thy mercy , etc Three days this Flood the Land shall hide This learned Caleb writes , Within her watery mantle , wide : And just as many nights . O then imagine you the rest , the sudden death of man and beast , Oh Lord , Lord in thy mercy , hold thy heavy hand . For to imagine the event , ( With searching care and heed ) Of such a woeful accident , Would make the heart to bleed : For under such a woeful work , full many woeful sights do lurk . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc Of Heretics and Infidels , A multitude shall flock Together , ( learned Shillocke tells ) With hope , like strongest Rock , to stand and fight against all those , that power , against their power oppose . O Lard , Lord in thy mercy , etc Next , Deaths-Ambassadour shall come , To act his fatal part , To summon to receive a doom , According to desert : But , to desert , Oh gracious Lord , Let not thy Judgement then accord . O Lord , Lord in etc Whole Families at once , shall lie Soar sick upon their beds : From house to house shall Sickness fly , When his infection spreddes : when he has pained them , maugre death , shall step , to stop their vital breath . O Lord , Lord in . etc Through all the world , Great trouble , next ( He say ) there shall be seen , As strife about the Holy text , The meaning altering clean . About Religion strife shall rise : Enlighten Lord , our hearts and eyes . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc The Turke lies next in dangers way , With Mahomet his God , ( His Devil rather , I should say ) to lose his Regal rod : For in his Land a civil strife shall many men bereave of life Oh Lord , Lord in thy mercy , hold thy heavy hand . From Civil wars , shall Famine rise , And all that Land oppress : In Mahomet no comfort lies , when men are in distress . To Christians , shall his people fly for succour in their misery . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc When time , has born these plagues away , More grievous shall succeed , More heavy Judgements of the Lord , Against us shall proceed . The Earth ( with wind enclosed therein ) Shall quake and tremble , for our sin . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , Hold thy heavy hand . Brave high-buylt Houses , on the earth , The quaking earth shall lay , When many at their Feasts and mirth , Their jocund sports and play ( Mistrusting no such thing ) are set , Our sins desert we still forget . O Lord . etc Then ( for a time ) the Seas grow calm , The Skies are clear , and still : Which time of stillness ( like to Balm ) Cures many , grief would kill : But when our hope's stand fair for peace Our sorrows shall again increase . O Lord . etc And other Earthquake presently , Heart-wounding sorrow brings , Removing Houses , Churches , high Hills , Trees , and other things . Our sins , like Hidras heads , increase , How should our plagues and torments cease [ ? ] O Lord . etc It is the part ( Boetius says ) Of men discreet and wise , Of wondrous things to search the cause : For this the Simples guise , To gaze upon the thing that's done , and never look how , or whyed begun . O Lord . etc Then let us search into the cause Of these , with Plagues are past , That to repentance they may draw's And to amend at last . The cause is since , our Sin's the cause : Neclect of Gods decrees , and laws . O Lord , etc Oh let us turn unto the Lord , For he ( alone ) is he , That can from water , fire , and sword At's pleasure set us free . If we by grace , cast since away , By mercy he his hand will stay . O Lord , etc Oh Let us fly those deadly sins The Conscience overcloyes , The Conscience , Souls Salvation wins Or else the Soul destroys , Let's labour then to keep it free , That God , in glory , we may see . O Lord , etc . O Lord , with thy all saving hand Our King and Queen de [ fe ] and The Heir to this united Land And all their isshue tend . The Honourable Counsel bless With many days , and happiness . O Lord , Lord , in etc FINIS . At London printed for T. P . Calebbe Shillocke , his Prophesy : or , the Jewes Prediction . To the tune of Bragandarie . TO O Caleb Shillocks prophecies , Who list to lend and ear , Of grief , and great calamity , A sad Discourse shall hear : Of Plagues ( for sin ) shall soon ensue Prognosticated by this Jew : Oh Lord , Lord in thy mercy , Hold thy heavy hand . And first , within this present year , Being Sixteene hundreth seav'n : The Prince of Planets shall appear , Like flaming Fire in heaven , Like flaming Fire his radiant rays To all shall seem ( old Shillock says . ) O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , Hold thy heavy hand . No mortal man shall able be , ( As he affirms ) to look Upon this fearful Progedie , This sinners bloody Book : this book , by which he soon may know the cause of all our grief and woe . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc For he that dares to gaze upon The Sun , so dreadfull-bright , Shall never after gaze upon And object sad , or light : But suddenly be stricken blind , As leaves are shaken with the wind . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc And next to this , old Shillock says , The waters shall arise , And set a perjod to the days Of many found , and wise : And all that knowed by eye , or ear , shall stand ( almost ) distracted with fear . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc And after this hath played his part , In Calebs Scroll I find , Another woe to wound the heart , And terrify the mind : The winds ( he says ) shall strangely blow And strong-built Houses overthrow . O Lard , Lord in thy mercy , etc With greater Waters after this , The Earth shall plagued be , So soar our God incensed is , By our impiety : So soar a Flood since godly Noe , As is to come , near man did know , Oh Lord Lord in thy mercy , etc Three days this Flood the Land shall hide This learned Caleb writes , Within her watery mantle , wide : And just as many nights . O then imagine you the rest , the sudden death of man and beast , Oh Lord , Lord in thy mercy , hold thy heavy hand . For to imagine the event , ( With searching care and heed ) Of such a woeful accident , Would make the heart to bleed : For under such a woeful work , full many woeful sights do lurk . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc Of Heretics and Infidels , A multitude shall flock Together , ( learned Shillocke tells ) With hope , like strongest Rock , to stand and fight against all those , that power , against their power oppose . O Lard , Lord in thy mercy , etc Next , Deaths-Ambassadour shall come , To act his fatal part , To summon to receive a doom , According to desert : But , to desert , Oh gracious Lord , Let not thy Judgement then accord . O Lord , Lord in etc Whole Families at once , shall lie Soar sick upon their beds : From house to house shall Sickness fly , When his infection spreddes : when he has pained them , maugre death , shall step , to stop their vital breath . O Lord , Lord in . etc Through all the world , Great trouble , next ( He say ) there shall be seen , As strife about the Holy text , The meaning altering clean . About Religion strife shall rise : Enlighten Lord , our hearts and eyes . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc The Turke lies next in dangers way , With Mahomet his God , ( His Devil rather , I should say ) to lose his Regal rod : For in his Land a civil strife shall many men bereave of life Oh Lord , Lord in thy mercy , hold thy heavy hand . From Civil wars , shall Famine rise , And all that Land oppress : In Mahomet no comfort lies , when men are in distress . To Christians , shall his people fly for succour in their misery . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , etc When time , has born these plagues away , More grievous shall succeed , More heavy Judgements of the Lord , Against us shall proceed . The Earth ( with wind enclosed therein ) Shall quake and tremble , for our sin . O Lord , Lord in thy mercy , Hold thy heavy hand . Brave high-buylt Houses , on the earth , The quaking earth shall lay , When many at their Feasts and mirth , Their jocund sports and play ( Mistrusting no such thing ) are set , Our sins desert we still forget . O Lord . etc Then ( for a time ) the Seas grow calm , The Skies are clear , and still : Which time of stillness ( like to Balm ) Cures many , grief would kill : But when our hope's stand fair for peace Our sorrows shall again increase . O Lord . etc And other Earthquake presently , Heart-wounding sorrow brings , Removing Houses , Churches , high Hills , Trees , and other things . Our sins , like Hidras heads , increase , How should our plagues and torments cease [ ? ] O Lord . etc It is the part ( Boetius says ) Of men discreet and wise , Of wondrous things to search the cause : For this the Simples guise , To gaze upon the thing that's done , and never look how , or whyed begun . O Lord . etc Then let us search into the cause Of these , with Plagues are past , That to repentance they may draw's And to amend at last . The cause is since , our Sin's the cause : Neclect of Gods decrees , and laws . O Lord , etc Oh let us turn unto the Lord , For he ( alone ) is he , That can from water , fire , and sword At's pleasure set us free . If we by grace , cast since away , By mercy he his hand will stay . O Lord , etc Oh Let us fly those deadly sins The Conscience overcloyes , The Conscience , Souls Salvation wins Or else the Soul destroys , Let's labour then to keep it free , That God , in glory , we may see . O Lord , etc . O Lord , with thy all saving hand Our King and Queen de [ fe ] and The Heir to this united Land And all their isshue tend . The Honourable Counsel bless With many days , and happiness . O Lord , Lord , in etc FINIS . At London printed for T. P. 