A Lovesick maids song , lately beguiled , By a runaway Lover that left her with Child . To the tune of , In Melton on a day . A Las and well away , that ere I trod on ground To see this hapless day , wherein such griefs abound . Alas I cannot sleep , my joys are clean exiled : I cannot choose but weep , because I was beguiled . When I oshuld take the meat , that should my life sustain : There is nothing that I eat , but aggravates my pain , O , fie on him whose deed does cause me thus complain My heart within does bleed , with sorrow grief and pain . Ah , evil might he thrive , that spoiled me of my health : The cruelest wretch alive , hath me undone by stealth . For where I lived a maid , a maiden in good fame , He hath me now betrayed , and brought me unto shame . My maidenhead is lost , o , cursed be the hour : When he that loved me most : should seek me to deflower . Now am I great with child , as great as I may go : He that hath me beguiled , a way is gone me from . And left me here alone , within this desert place : To wail and make my moan , Oh most distressed case . What shall of me betide , none but the Lord does know : He that should be my guide , hath left me here in woe . the winds resound my cries , within the Misers ears : That he with watery eyes , may shed his brinish tears . To wail the late done deed . that he committed have : Or else to come with speed , my babe and me to save . The trees can witness well , my privy grief and pain : These Rocks and stones can tell the sorrows I substaine My meat is hawes and hips , my drink is water clear : Nought else my tender lips , have tasted this half year . O whelp of Tigers brood , couldst thou find in thy heart , With her that did thee good , to play so lewd a part . Woe worth me poor woman , that did thee always help , And cursed be the Dam , brought forth so bad a whelp . Thou hadst me at thy call , as hawks are at the lure : My self , my goods and all , and what I might procure . Thou hadst it at thy need , I never said thee nay , To stand thee ought in steed , or help thee any way . And now thou dost requite , this love I bear to thee : With deadly deep despite , as now I plainly see , To leave me comfortless , my luklesse state to rue : Thou canst not say no less , but thou hast been untrue . Woe worth the time that I gave credit to thy words : For now I plainly try , thou bushes givest for birds . Woe worth those feigned tears , which thou hast often spent : They brought me in the [ b ] ryers which make me now lament . O would to God I had not known thy perjured face : I might have then be glad , where now I reap alas . For I did never offend , before that time with thee : Nor never did intend , to spot my chastity . But sith no words will serve , to countervail thine act : And that thou dost deserve , hell torments for thy fact . I will hold me content , till that I breathe my last : I cannot now privent , the thing is done and passed . the maids be warned by me , let no such cogging mates , Spot your virginity , by any subtle feats . lest in the end you say , and sing as now I do : Alas and well away , we are beguiled too . Consider words are wind , or of small force at least : And men are most unkind , I speak probatum est . There is no truoch in men , the best is all to had : Who trusts their dealings then I hold them worse than mad . Who trusts to rotten boughs shall fallen ere they bewares : Who credits feigned vows : are soonest brought to care . My self may justly say . I proved it to my pain : I never saw the day , but words & amp ; deeds were twain And thus to end my song , I wish you all beware , And of the flattering tongue , to have a special care . Keep well your honest name , as the apple of your eye , So shall your lasting fame . remain eternally . FINIS . Printed at London for I . W.A Lovesick maids song , lately beguiled , By a runaway Lover that left her with Child . To the tune of , In Melton on a day . A Las and well away , that ere I trod on ground To see this hapless day , wherein such griefs abound . Alas I cannot sleep , my joys are clean exiled : I cannot choose but weep , because I was beguiled . When I oshuld take the meat , that should my life sustain : There is nothing that I eat , but aggravates my pain , O , fie on him whose deed does cause me thus complain My heart within does bleed , with sorrow grief and pain . Ah , evil might he thrive , that spoiled me of my health : The cruelest wretch alive , hath me undone by stealth . For where I lived a maid , a maiden in good fame , He hath me now betrayed , and brought me unto shame . My maidenhead is lost , o , cursed be the hour : When he that loved me most : should seek me to deflower . Now am I great with child , as great as I may go : He that hath me beguiled , a way is gone me from . And left me here alone , within this desert place : To wail and make my moan , Oh most distressed case . What shall of me betide , none but the Lord does know : He that should be my guide , hath left me here in woe . the winds resound my cries , within the Misers ears : That he with watery eyes , may shed his brinish tears . To wail the late done deed . that he committed have : Or else to come with speed , my babe and me to save . The trees can witness well , my privy grief and pain : These Rocks and stones can tell the sorrows I substaine My meat is hawes and hips , my drink is water clear : Nought else my tender lips , have tasted this half year . O whelp of Tigers brood , couldst thou find in thy heart , With her that did thee good , to play so lewd a part . Woe worth me poor woman , that did thee always help , And cursed be the Dam , brought forth so bad a whelp . Thou hadst me at thy call , as hawks are at the lure : My self , my goods and all , and what I might procure . Thou hadst it at thy need , I never said thee nay , To stand thee ought in steed , or help thee any way . And now thou dost requite , this love I bear to thee : With deadly deep despite , as now I plainly see , To leave me comfortless , my luklesse state to rue : Thou canst not say no less , but thou hast been untrue . Woe worth the time that I gave credit to thy words : For now I plainly try , thou bushes givest for birds . Woe worth those feigned tears , which thou hast often spent : They brought me in the [ b ] ryers which make me now lament . O would to God I had not known thy perjured face : I might have then be glad , where now I reap alas . For I did never offend , before that time with thee : Nor never did intend , to spot my chastity . But sith no words will serve , to countervail thine act : And that thou dost deserve , hell torments for thy fact . I will hold me content , till that I breathe my last : I cannot now privent , the thing is done and passed . the maids be warned by me , let no such cogging mates , Spot your virginity , by any subtle feats . lest in the end you say , and sing as now I do : Alas and well away , we are beguiled too . Consider words are wind , or of small force at least : And men are most unkind , I speak probatum est . There is no truoch in men , the best is all to had : Who trusts their dealings then I hold them worse than mad . Who trusts to rotten boughs shall fallen ere they bewares : Who credits feigned vows : are soonest brought to care . My self may justly say . I proved it to my pain : I never saw the day , but words & amp ; deeds were twain And thus to end my song , I wish you all beware , And of the flattering tongue , to have a special care . Keep well your honest name , as the apple of your eye , So shall your lasting fame . remain eternally . FINIS . Printed at London for I.W. 