The Cucking of a Scold . To the tune of , The Merchant of Emden . A Wedded wife there was , I wis of years but young , But if you think she wanted wit , I'll swear she lacked no tongue . Just seventeene years of age , This women was not more , Yet she would scold with any one , From twenty to threescore . The cucking of a Scold , The cucking of a Scold , Which if you will but stay to hear the cucking of a Scold . As nimble as and Eel , This woman's tongue did wag , And faster you shall have it run , Then any ambling Nag . But without mighty wrong , She would not show her skill . But if that she were moved once The sport was not so ill . The cucking etc Each man might quickl [ y ] know . When as the game begun B ut none could tell you for his life , What time she would have done . She was a famous Scold , A dainty Scold in grain , A stouter Scold was never bred Nor born in Turn-gain Lane . The cucking etc Upon a time it chanced , And she did thus allege , A neighbours maid had taken half Her dishclout from the hedge : For which great trespass done , This wrong for to requite , She scolded very handsomely , Two days and one whole night . The cucking etc Which something did molest The neighbours round about : But this was nothing to the fits That she would thunder out . B ut once , the truth to tell , Worse scolding did she keep , For waking of her little Dog , That in the Sun did sleep . The cucking , etc Six winter days together , From morning eight a clock , Until the evening that each one Their doors began to lock : She scolded for this wrong , Which she accounted great , And unto peace and quietness No man could her entreat . The cucking , etc So that this little Devil , With her unquiet tongue , Continually both far and near , Molested old and young . But yet soon after this , She made a greater brawl , Against the Constable , that did But piss against her wall . The cucking , etc She called him beastly knave , And filthy Jacke for this , And said that every Cuckold now Against her wall must piss : And in most raging sort , She railed at him so long . He made a vow he would revenge This most outrageous worng . The cucking , etc And first of all behold , He clapped her in the Cage , Thinking thereby her devilish tongue , He would full well assuage . But now worse then before , She did to brawling fallen . The Constable and all the rest She vildly did miscall . The cucking , etc Thus night and day she sent Such brawling from her dressed , That ner'a neighbour in the town Could take one hours rest . Which when the Justice knew , This judgement than gave he , That she upon a cucking stool Should justly punished be . The cucking , etc Upon three market days , This penance she should bide , And every thing fit for the same . The Officers did provide : And hundred Archers good , Did first before her go , A hundred and five nimble shot Went next unto the Roe . The cucking , etc . And hundred armed men Did also follow there : The which did guard the gallant Scold With piercing Pikes and Spears : And trumptes sounding sweet In order with them comes A company most orderly , With pleasant Phifes and Drums . The cucking , etc And forty Parrats then , On sundry perches high , Were carried eke before the scold , Most fine and orderly And last of all a mighty wisp Was born before her face . The perfect tokens of a Scold Well known in every place . The cucking , etc Then was the Scold her self . In a wheelbarrow brought . Stripped naked to the smock , As in that case she ought : Neats tongues about her neck Were hung in open show ; And thus unto the cucking stool This famous Scold did go . The cucking , etc Then fast within the chair She was most finely bound , Which made her scold excessively , And said she should be drowned . But every time that she Was in the water dipped , The drums and trumpets sounded , brave For joy the people skipped . The cucking , etc Six times when she was ducked Within the water clear . That like unto a drowned Rat , She did in sighed appear . The justice thinking then To send her straight away , The Constable she called knave , And knaved him all the day . The cucking etc Upon which words , I wot , They ducked her straight again A dozen times over head and ears : Yet she would not refraime , But still reviled them all . Then to't again they go , Till she at last held up her hands , Saying , I'll no more do so . The cucking etc Then was she brought away , And after for her life , She never durst begin to scold With either man or wife . And if that every Scold Might have so good a diet , Then should their neighbours every day Be sure to live in quiet , The cucking of a Scold , The cucking of a Scold Which if you will but stay to hear The cucking of a Scold . FINIS Printed at London by G. P . The Cucking of a Scold . To the tune of , The Merchant of Emden . A Wedded wife there was , I wis of years but young , But if you think she wanted wit , I'll swear she lacked no tongue . Just seventeene years of age , This women was not more , Yet she would scold with any one , From twenty to threescore . The cucking of a Scold , The cucking of a Scold , Which if you will but stay to hear the cucking of a Scold . As nimble as and Eel , This woman's tongue did wag , And faster you shall have it run , Then any ambling Nag . But without mighty wrong , She would not show her skill . But if that she were moved once The sport was not so ill . The cucking etc Each man might quickl [ y ] know . When as the game begun B ut none could tell you for his life , What time she would have done . She was a famous Scold , A dainty Scold in grain , A stouter Scold was never bred Nor born in Turn-gain Lane . The cucking etc Upon a time it chanced , And she did thus allege , A neighbours maid had taken half Her dishclout from the hedge : For which great trespass done , This wrong for to requite , She scolded very handsomely , Two days and one whole night . The cucking etc Which something did molest The neighbours round about : But this was nothing to the fits That she would thunder out . B ut once , the truth to tell , Worse scolding did she keep , For waking of her little Dog , That in the Sun did sleep . The cucking , etc Six winter days together , From morning eight a clock , Until the evening that each one Their doors began to lock : She scolded for this wrong , Which she accounted great , And unto peace and quietness No man could her entreat . The cucking , etc So that this little Devil , With her unquiet tongue , Continually both far and near , Molested old and young . But yet soon after this , She made a greater brawl , Against the Constable , that did But piss against her wall . The cucking , etc She called him beastly knave , And filthy Jacke for this , And said that every Cuckold now Against her wall must piss : And in most raging sort , She railed at him so long . He made a vow he would revenge This most outrageous worng . The cucking , etc And first of all behold , He clapped her in the Cage , Thinking thereby her devilish tongue , He would full well assuage . But now worse then before , She did to brawling fallen . The Constable and all the rest She vildly did miscall . The cucking , etc Thus night and day she sent Such brawling from her dressed , That ner'a neighbour in the town Could take one hours rest . Which when the Justice knew , This judgement than gave he , That she upon a cucking stool Should justly punished be . The cucking , etc Upon three market days , This penance she should bide , And every thing fit for the same . The Officers did provide : And hundred Archers good , Did first before her go , A hundred and five nimble shot Went next unto the Roe . The cucking , etc . And hundred armed men Did also follow there : The which did guard the gallant Scold With piercing Pikes and Spears : And trumptes sounding sweet In order with them comes A company most orderly , With pleasant Phifes and Drums . The cucking , etc And forty Parrats then , On sundry perches high , Were carried eke before the scold , Most fine and orderly And last of all a mighty wisp Was born before her face . The perfect tokens of a Scold Well known in every place . The cucking , etc Then was the Scold her self . In a wheelbarrow brought . Stripped naked to the smock , As in that case she ought : Neats tongues about her neck Were hung in open show ; And thus unto the cucking stool This famous Scold did go . The cucking , etc Then fast within the chair She was most finely bound , Which made her scold excessively , And said she should be drowned . But every time that she Was in the water dipped , The drums and trumpets sounded , brave For joy the people skipped . The cucking , etc Six times when she was ducked Within the water clear . That like unto a drowned Rat , She did in sighed appear . The justice thinking then To send her straight away , The Constable she called knave , And knaved him all the day . The cucking etc Upon which words , I wot , They ducked her straight again A dozen times over head and ears : Yet she would not refraime , But still reviled them all . Then to't again they go , Till she at last held up her hands , Saying , I'll no more do so . The cucking etc Then was she brought away , And after for her life , She never durst begin to scold With either man or wife . And if that every Scold Might have so good a diet , Then should their neighbours every day Be sure to live in quiet , The cucking of a Scold , The cucking of a Scold Which if you will but stay to hear The cucking of a Scold . FINIS Printed at London by G. P. 