A new Ballad entitled , A Bellman for England , which night and day does sta . ring in all men's hearing , Gods vengeance is at hand . To the tune of , Oh man in desperation . A Wake , awake , o England , sweet England now awake , And to thy prayers speedily , do thou thy self betake : The Lord thy God is coming , within the sky so clear : Repent with speed thy wickedness , the day it draws near . The dreadful day of vengeance is shortly now at hand , When fearful burning fire shall waste both Sea and Land : And all men's hearts shall fail them to see such things appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . The worldly wise and prudent shall fallen beside their wits , And wish the hills to cover them , in these their frantic fits : No succour , help , nor comfort , for them shall then appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . The Seas and Rivers running , shall roar in grievous wise , The beasts in pasture feeding , shall strain forth grievous cries : The skies shall fume with fire , the earth shall burn so clear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . The glorious holy Angels shall then their Trumpets found , The dead shall hear their voices , as they lie in the ground : Then all the graves shall open , and dead men shall appear Before the Lord in judgement , the day it draws near . The Devil will then be ready , each creature to accuse , And show how in their life time , they did themselves abuse : And every men own conscience , for witness shall appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . The works of every creature ; their thoughts and deeds , I say , Shall follow them together , in that most dreadful day : And no respect of persons , shall at that time appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . But such as have done justly , shall wear the Crown of life , The wicked shall be damned to sorrow , pain , and grief , In boiling brands of brimstone , with doleful heavy cheer : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . But woe unto the women , that then with child shall go , And to the silly nurse's , which do give suck also : When as the day of judgement so grievous shall appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . And pray with hearts most constant , unto the Lord of might , That in the frozen Winter , you do not take your flight : Nor that upon the Sabbath that peril do appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . Let all good Christian people repent therefore in time , And from their hearts lamenting each former grievous crime , Prepare themselves with gladness to match when Christ shall come ; The Trump shall found on sudden , and no man knows how soon . For all things be fulfilled , which Christ before had told , Small faith is now remaining , and charity is grown cold : Great signs and wonders we have seen both in the earth and sky : Repent therefore o England , the Judgement day is nigh . Why dost thou put thy confidence in strong and stately towers ? Why takest thou such pleasure , in building sumptuous bowers , Rejoicing in thy Pastures , and Parks of fallow Dear ? Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . Why seekest thou deceitfully to purchase treasure great ? And why dost thou , through usury the blood of poor men eat ? Why does thy life and living , so filthily appear ? Repent with speed thy wickedness : the day it draws near . Wherefore let all good people upon their knees proceed , In making earnest prayer : ( for never was more need ) That God may spare these punishments even for his mercy mere , And give us grace to bear in mind the Judgement-day is near . FINIS . Printed at London for H . G.A new Ballad entitled , A Bellman for England , which night and day does sta . ring in all men's hearing , Gods vengeance is at hand . To the tune of , Oh man in desperation . A Wake , awake , o England , sweet England now awake , And to thy prayers speedily , do thou thy self betake : The Lord thy God is coming , within the sky so clear : Repent with speed thy wickedness , the day it draws near . The dreadful day of vengeance is shortly now at hand , When fearful burning fire shall waste both Sea and Land : And all men's hearts shall fail them to see such things appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . The worldly wise and prudent shall fallen beside their wits , And wish the hills to cover them , in these their frantic fits : No succour , help , nor comfort , for them shall then appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . The Seas and Rivers running , shall roar in grievous wise , The beasts in pasture feeding , shall strain forth grievous cries : The skies shall fume with fire , the earth shall burn so clear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . The glorious holy Angels shall then their Trumpets found , The dead shall hear their voices , as they lie in the ground : Then all the graves shall open , and dead men shall appear Before the Lord in judgement , the day it draws near . The Devil will then be ready , each creature to accuse , And show how in their life time , they did themselves abuse : And every men own conscience , for witness shall appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . The works of every creature ; their thoughts and deeds , I say , Shall follow them together , in that most dreadful day : And no respect of persons , shall at that time appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . But such as have done justly , shall wear the Crown of life , The wicked shall be damned to sorrow , pain , and grief , In boiling brands of brimstone , with doleful heavy cheer : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . But woe unto the women , that then with child shall go , And to the silly nurse's , which do give suck also : When as the day of judgement so grievous shall appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . And pray with hearts most constant , unto the Lord of might , That in the frozen Winter , you do not take your flight : Nor that upon the Sabbath that peril do appear : Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . Let all good Christian people repent therefore in time , And from their hearts lamenting each former grievous crime , Prepare themselves with gladness to match when Christ shall come ; The Trump shall found on sudden , and no man knows how soon . For all things be fulfilled , which Christ before had told , Small faith is now remaining , and charity is grown cold : Great signs and wonders we have seen both in the earth and sky : Repent therefore o England , the Judgement day is nigh . Why dost thou put thy confidence in strong and stately towers ? Why takest thou such pleasure , in building sumptuous bowers , Rejoicing in thy Pastures , and Parks of fallow Dear ? Repent therefore o England , the day it draws near . Why seekest thou deceitfully to purchase treasure great ? And why dost thou , through usury the blood of poor men eat ? Why does thy life and living , so filthily appear ? Repent with speed thy wickedness : the day it draws near . Wherefore let all good people upon their knees proceed , In making earnest prayer : ( for never was more need ) That God may spare these punishments even for his mercy mere , And give us grace to bear in mind the Judgement-day is near . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. 