And excellent new Medley . To the tune of the Spanish Pavin : W Hen Philomel begins to sing , the grass grows green & amp ; flowers spring , Me thinks it is a pleasant thing , to walk on Primrose hill , Maids have you any Conny-skins To fell for Laces or great Pins ? The Pope will pardon ventail sins : Saint Peter . Fresh fish & amp ; news grow quickly stale : Some say good Wine can never want sale , But God send poor folks Beer and Ale enough until they die . Most people now are full of pride ; The Boy said no but yet he lyde : His Aunt did to the Cuck-stoole ride for scolding . Within our Town fair Susan dwells : Sure Meg is poisoned , for she swells , My friend , pull off your buzzards bells , and let the haggard fly . Take heed you play not at Tray-trip . Short heals forsooth will quickly slip . The beadle makes folk with his whip , dance naked . Come Tapster tell us whats to pay , Jane frowned and cried good Sir away , She took his kindness , yet said nay , as Maidens use to do . The man shall have his Mare ageen , When all false knaves prove honest men , Our Cisly shall be Sainted then , true Roger . The Butcher with his masty Dog , At Rumford you may buy a Hog , I faith Raph Goose hath god a clog , his wench is great with child : In Pillory put the Bakers head , For making of such little bred , Good conscience now a days is dead , Pierce plowman . The Cutpurse and his Company Thieves find receivers presently : Shun Brokers , Bawds , and Usury , for fear of afterclaps . Lord , what a wicked world is this ? The stone lets Kate she cannot piss ? Come hither sweet and take a kiss in kindness . In Bath a wanton wife did dwell , She had two buckets to a well , Would not a dog for anger swell , to see a Pudding creep ? The Horseleech is become a Smith When halters fail , then take a With : They say and old man hath no pith , Round Robin . Simon does suck up all the Eggs , Franke never drinks without Nutmegs , And pretty Parnell shows her legs , as slender as my waste . When fair Jerusalem did stand , The match is made give me thy hand . Maulkin must have a Cambricke band blew starched . The Cuckoo sung hard by the door , Gyll brawled like a butter whore , Cause her bucke-headed Husband swore the Miller was a knave . Good Poets leave off making plays Let players seek for Soldiers pays I do not like these drunken frays , in Smithfield . Now Roisters spurs do jingle brave , John Sexton played the errand knave , To dig a Coarse out of the Grave , and steal the sheet away . The wandering Prince of stately Troy , Green sleeves were wont to be my joy , He is a blind and paltry boy god Cupid . Come hither friends and give good care , A leg of mutton stuffed is rare . Take heed you do not steal my Mare , it is so hight it burns . Behold the trial of true love , He took a scrich-Owle for a Dove : This man is like ere long to prove a Monster . This merry when kind Maltmen meet : No Cowards fight but in the street , Me thinks this wench smells very sweet , of Musk , or somewhat else . There was a man did play at Maw , The while his wife made him a Daw , Your Case is altered in the Law , quoth Ployden . The Weaver will no shuttle shoot , Go bid the Cobbler mend my boot He is a fool will go a foot and let his Horse stand still . Old John a Nokes and John a Stile , Many and honest man beguiles . But all the world is full of wiles and knavery . Of treason and of Traitors spite The house is haunted with a spirit , Now Nan will rise about midnight , and walk to Richards house . You Courtly states and Gallants all , Climb not too high , for fear you fallen : If one please not , another shall , King Pippin . Diana and her Darlings deer , The Dutchmen ply the double Beer : Boys ring the bells and make good cheer , when Kempe returns from Room . O man what means thy heavy look ? Is Will not in his Mistress Book , Sir Rouland for a refuge took Horn . Castle . Rich people have the world at will Trades fade , but Lawyers flourish still , Jacke would be married unto Gyll : but care will kill a Cat. Are you there Sirrah with your Bears ? A Barbers shop with nitty hairs . Doll , Phillis hath lost both her ears , for cozening . Who list to led a Soldiers life ? Tom would eat meat , but wants a knife , The Tinker swore that Tib his wife , would play at Uptayles all Believe my word without and Oath The Taylor stole some of her cloth : When George lay sick , Joane made him broth with Hemlock . The Patron gelded the parsonage , And Esau sold his heritage , Now Leonard lacke-wit is fool age to be his Father's heir . There's many scratch before it itch , Saul did ask counsel of a Witch , Friend , ye many have a Bacen flitch at Dunmow . King David played on a Welch Harp , This thread will never make good warp At wise men's words each fool will carp and shoot their witless bolts . Jove like a Ram wore horns and wool . Knew you my Hostis of the Bull , Spruce Curio once was made a gull in Shoreditch . The blackamoors are blabber lipt , At Yarmouth are the Herrings shipped , And at Bride-well the beggars whipped , a man may live and learn , Grief in my heart does stop my tongue , The poor man still must put up wrong , Your way lies there , then walk along to Witham . There lies a Lass that I love well The Broker hath gay clothes to fell , Which from the Hangmans but yet fell are you no further yet ? In Summer time when Pears be ripe Who would give sixe pence for a Trip [ e ] Play Lad , or else lend me thy Pipe and Taber . Saint Nicholas Clerks will take a pu [ rse ] Young children now can swear and cu [ rse ] I hope ye like me never the worse , for finding fault therewith . The servant is the Master's mate . When gossips meet , there's too much pr [ ate ] Poor Lazarus lies on Dives gate haste starved . Make haste to Sea , and hoist up sails The hogs were served with milking pa [ isles ] From filthy flats , and from all Jails , good Lord deliver us all . I scorn to ride a raw boned Jade , Fetch me a Mattock and a Spade , A Graves end Toste will soon be made Saint Dennis . But for to finish up my Song , The Alewife did the Brewer wrong One day of sorrow seems as long as ten days do in mirth , My Medley now is at and end , Have you no Bowls or Trays to m [ end ] This hard to find so true a friend as Damon . [ FINIS ] And excellent new Medley . To the tune of the Spanish Pavin : W Hen Philomel begins to sing , the grass grows green & amp ; flowers spring , Me thinks it is a pleasant thing , to walk on Primrose hill , Maids have you any Conny-skins To fell for Laces or great Pins ? The Pope will pardon ventail sins : Saint Peter . Fresh fish & amp ; news grow quickly stale : Some say good Wine can never want sale , But God send poor folks Beer and Ale enough until they die . Most people now are full of pride ; The Boy said no but yet he lyde : His Aunt did to the Cuck-stoole ride for scolding . Within our Town fair Susan dwells : Sure Meg is poisoned , for she swells , My friend , pull off your buzzards bells , and let the haggard fly . Take heed you play not at Tray-trip . Short heals forsooth will quickly slip . The beadle makes folk with his whip , dance naked . Come Tapster tell us whats to pay , Jane frowned and cried good Sir away , She took his kindness , yet said nay , as Maidens use to do . The man shall have his Mare ageen , When all false knaves prove honest men , Our Cisly shall be Sainted then , true Roger . The Butcher with his masty Dog , At Rumford you may buy a Hog , I faith Raph Goose hath god a clog , his wench is great with child : In Pillory put the Bakers head , For making of such little bred , Good conscience now a days is dead , Pierce plowman . The Cutpurse and his Company Thieves find receivers presently : Shun Brokers , Bawds , and Usury , for fear of afterclaps . Lord , what a wicked world is this ? The stone lets Kate she cannot piss ? Come hither sweet and take a kiss in kindness . In Bath a wanton wife did dwell , She had two buckets to a well , Would not a dog for anger swell , to see a Pudding creep ? The Horseleech is become a Smith When halters fail , then take a With : They say and old man hath no pith , Round Robin . Simon does suck up all the Eggs , Franke never drinks without Nutmegs , And pretty Parnell shows her legs , as slender as my waste . When fair Jerusalem did stand , The match is made give me thy hand . Maulkin must have a Cambricke band blew starched . The Cuckoo sung hard by the door , Gyll brawled like a butter whore , Cause her bucke-headed Husband swore the Miller was a knave . Good Poets leave off making plays Let players seek for Soldiers pays I do not like these drunken frays , in Smithfield . Now Roisters spurs do jingle brave , John Sexton played the errand knave , To dig a Coarse out of the Grave , and steal the sheet away . The wandering Prince of stately Troy , Green sleeves were wont to be my joy , He is a blind and paltry boy god Cupid . Come hither friends and give good care , A leg of mutton stuffed is rare . Take heed you do not steal my Mare , it is so hight it burns . Behold the trial of true love , He took a scrich-Owle for a Dove : This man is like ere long to prove a Monster . This merry when kind Maltmen meet : No Cowards fight but in the street , Me thinks this wench smells very sweet , of Musk , or somewhat else . There was a man did play at Maw , The while his wife made him a Daw , Your Case is altered in the Law , quoth Ployden . The Weaver will no shuttle shoot , Go bid the Cobbler mend my boot He is a fool will go a foot and let his Horse stand still . Old John a Nokes and John a Stile , Many and honest man beguiles . But all the world is full of wiles and knavery . Of treason and of Traitors spite The house is haunted with a spirit , Now Nan will rise about midnight , and walk to Richards house . You Courtly states and Gallants all , Climb not too high , for fear you fallen : If one please not , another shall , King Pippin . Diana and her Darlings deer , The Dutchmen ply the double Beer : Boys ring the bells and make good cheer , when Kempe returns from Room . O man what means thy heavy look ? Is Will not in his Mistress Book , Sir Rouland for a refuge took Horn . Castle . Rich people have the world at will Trades fade , but Lawyers flourish still , Jacke would be married unto Gyll : but care will kill a Cat. Are you there Sirrah with your Bears ? A Barbers shop with nitty hairs . Doll , Phillis hath lost both her ears , for cozening . Who list to led a Soldiers life ? Tom would eat meat , but wants a knife , The Tinker swore that Tib his wife , would play at Uptayles all Believe my word without and Oath The Taylor stole some of her cloth : When George lay sick , Joane made him broth with Hemlock . The Patron gelded the parsonage , And Esau sold his heritage , Now Leonard lacke-wit is fool age to be his Father's heir . There's many scratch before it itch , Saul did ask counsel of a Witch , Friend , ye many have a Bacen flitch at Dunmow . King David played on a Welch Harp , This thread will never make good warp At wise men's words each fool will carp and shoot their witless bolts . Jove like a Ram wore horns and wool . Knew you my Hostis of the Bull , Spruce Curio once was made a gull in Shoreditch . The blackamoors are blabber lipt , At Yarmouth are the Herrings shipped , And at Bride-well the beggars whipped , a man may live and learn , Grief in my heart does stop my tongue , The poor man still must put up wrong , Your way lies there , then walk along to Witham . There lies a Lass that I love well The Broker hath gay clothes to fell , Which from the Hangmans but yet fell are you no further yet ? In Summer time when Pears be ripe Who would give sixe pence for a Trip [ e ] Play Lad , or else lend me thy Pipe and Taber . Saint Nicholas Clerks will take a pu [ rse ] Young children now can swear and cu [ rse ] I hope ye like me never the worse , for finding fault therewith . The servant is the Master's mate . When gossips meet , there's too much pr [ ate ] Poor Lazarus lies on Dives gate haste starved . Make haste to Sea , and hoist up sails The hogs were served with milking pa [ isles ] From filthy flats , and from all Jails , good Lord deliver us all . I scorn to ride a raw boned Jade , Fetch me a Mattock and a Spade , A Graves end Toste will soon be made Saint Dennis . But for to finish up my Song , The Alewife did the Brewer wrong One day of sorrow seems as long as ten days do in mirth , My Medley now is at and end , Have you no Bowls or Trays to m [ end ] This hard to find so true a friend as Damon . [ FINIS ] 