The Rhymers new Trimming . To the tune of , In Summer time . A Rimer of late in a Barbors shop , sat by for a trimming , to take his lot : Being minded with mirth until his turn came , to drive away the time , he thus began . You barbarous Shavers that nimbly trim with Sissors & amp ; Razor , and handling the Comb : Your rubbing , your brushing , your Ball , & amp ; Basin , displays your fining of each one in fashion . You are no Pillars , but poulers i'th state , and still are shaving for what you can scrape : By excremental Fees you purchase Pelf , and wash from others ; but keep to your self . Your abusive Balls you clap in our eyes , making us wink while you make up your prize With bobbing our Lips , & amp ; pullings by the Nose , and after to slap us i'th mouth with your Clothes . With your Liquour so hight , you often do scald , & amp ; oft to your hands comes Crowns that are bald : The more that you clip them , the thinner they are , and this for your profit they lose their Hair . You frizzell , you currell your long Hair & amp ; Locks turns up their Moutchatos , snifled with Pox : Rub them with Musk-ball , & amp ; sprinkle Rosewater the snap of your Finger then follows after . Your pulling out Teeth , or stopping the hollow , your skill to cease pain , being but shallow , Making show of a cure with a Mastic plaster , they from your chair rising , a leg they scrape after Having thus passed their time in prating , the Chair became empty , he his turn taking : To be trimmed , into what fashion or cut ( quoth the Barbor ) will it please you to be put : Good friend ( quoth he ) I would be known , for knowledge is my living , now let be shown : Thy cunning in shaving so of my Face , that a blush may not stain it to my disgrace . For such company I come in that will try , if they can stain it with Vermilian die : Or dash me out of countenance by actium : wherefore put me in the most shameless fashion . Fear it not then good sir , ( quoth the Barbor : ) Boy give me hither a Ball that will larther , And pound those precious gums so dusty ; pointing to small Coal in a Pan all rusty . The Boy straight about his business hies . Now sir , says the Barbor , keep close your eyes For this Ball will prove somewhat tart , and 'twill disquiet you much to feel them smart . Quickly Boy , bring my varnishing Ball . Here sir , and gives him the Coals beaten small Which over his Face he dusteth full thick , and rubs him with Soap , the better to stick . Being about his business : sir ( quoth the Barbor , ) this Ball does well scour , and ease my labour : And though here needs no drying with Clothes , yet I must be familiar to pull you by the Nose . Having done his exploit , made a great smoke ; and under the Chair set ; being ready to choke : The Rimer up rose , and forth of doors flung , they snatching off the Clothes on him that hung . And being gone out bedaubed and smeared , the people shouted , Boys on him stared : He wondering at their laughing , thought his favour was very pleasing , that moved such laughter . And seeing the Smoke ceased , went back again , with troops following at his heals amain : The door was shut , but at the Window as Glass was set of purpose to show him his Face . Which he perceiving , did swear and rave , quo'th Barbor , you are trimmed like a rhyming knave Your quality is awdacious and base : now you having god a Vizard for your Face . Where next you are trimde , be not too bold , with scalding , and scraping ; now you are pould : lest they noch your noddle , & amp ; spoil your rhyming : and so much good do you with your trimming . FINIS . Imprinted at London for T. Langley . The Rhymers new Trimming . To the tune of , In Summer time . A Rimer of late in a Barbors shop , sat by for a trimming , to take his lot : Being minded with mirth until his turn came , to drive away the time , he thus began . You barbarous Shavers that nimbly trim with Sissors & amp ; Razor , and handling the Comb : Your rubbing , your brushing , your Ball , & amp ; Basin , displays your fining of each one in fashion . You are no Pillars , but poulers i'th state , and still are shaving for what you can scrape : By excremental Fees you purchase Pelf , and wash from others ; but keep to your self . Your abusive Balls you clap in our eyes , making us wink while you make up your prize With bobbing our Lips , & amp ; pullings by the Nose , and after to slap us i'th mouth with your Clothes . With your Liquour so hight , you often do scald , & amp ; oft to your hands comes Crowns that are bald : The more that you clip them , the thinner they are , and this for your profit they lose their Hair . You frizzell , you currell your long Hair & amp ; Locks turns up their Moutchatos , snifled with Pox : Rub them with Musk-ball , & amp ; sprinkle Rosewater the snap of your Finger then follows after . Your pulling out Teeth , or stopping the hollow , your skill to cease pain , being but shallow , Making show of a cure with a Mastic plaster , they from your chair rising , a leg they scrape after Having thus passed their time in prating , the Chair became empty , he his turn taking : To be trimmed , into what fashion or cut ( quoth the Barbor ) will it please you to be put : Good friend ( quoth he ) I would be known , for knowledge is my living , now let be shown : Thy cunning in shaving so of my Face , that a blush may not stain it to my disgrace . For such company I come in that will try , if they can stain it with Vermilian die : Or dash me out of countenance by actium : wherefore put me in the most shameless fashion . Fear it not then good sir , ( quoth the Barbor : ) Boy give me hither a Ball that will larther , And pound those precious gums so dusty ; pointing to small Coal in a Pan all rusty . The Boy straight about his business hies . Now sir , says the Barbor , keep close your eyes For this Ball will prove somewhat tart , and 'twill disquiet you much to feel them smart . Quickly Boy , bring my varnishing Ball . Here sir , and gives him the Coals beaten small Which over his Face he dusteth full thick , and rubs him with Soap , the better to stick . Being about his business : sir ( quoth the Barbor , ) this Ball does well scour , and ease my labour : And though here needs no drying with Clothes , yet I must be familiar to pull you by the Nose . Having done his exploit , made a great smoke ; and under the Chair set ; being ready to choke : The Rimer up rose , and forth of doors flung , they snatching off the Clothes on him that hung . And being gone out bedaubed and smeared , the people shouted , Boys on him stared : He wondering at their laughing , thought his favour was very pleasing , that moved such laughter . And seeing the Smoke ceased , went back again , with troops following at his heals amain : The door was shut , but at the Window as Glass was set of purpose to show him his Face . Which he perceiving , did swear and rave , quo'th Barbor , you are trimmed like a rhyming knave Your quality is awdacious and base : now you having god a Vizard for your Face . Where next you are trimde , be not too bold , with scalding , and scraping ; now you are pould : lest they noch your noddle , & amp ; spoil your rhyming : and so much good do you with your trimming . FINIS . Imprinted at London for T. Langley . 