Saint Georges commendation to all Soldiers : or , S. Georges Alarm to all that profess Martial discipline , with a memorial of the Worthies , who have been born so high on the wings of Fame for their brave adventures , as they cannot be buried in the pit of oblivion . To a pleasant new tune . W High do you boast of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many men have endured fights , Beside King Arthur , and Lancelot du Lake , Sir Tristram de Lionel , that fought for Ladies sake : Read old Histories , and then thou shalt see , Saint George , Saint George the Dragon made to flee ; S. George for England , S. Dennis is for France , Sing Honey soit qui mal y panse . Marke our father Abraham when first he reschued Lot , Only with his household , what conquest there he god : David elected a Prophet and a King , He slew the great Goliah with a stone within a sling : Yet these were not Knights of the Table round . S. George , S. George , the Dragon did confound : S. George for England , S. Dennis is for France , Sing Honey soit qui mal y panse . Jason and Gedion did led their men to fight , They conquered the Amorites , and put them all to flight , Hercules his labours on the plains of Base , And Sampson slew a thousand with the jawbone of and Ass : And then he threw a Temple down , and did a mighty spoil , S. George , saint George the Dragon he did foil : S. George for England , saint Dennis is for France , etc The Wars of the Monarchs , they were too long to tell , And next of all the Roman , for they did far excel , When that Hanyball and Scipio , so many fields did fight , Orlando Furioso was a Worthy Knight : Remus and Romulus that Room first did built . S. George , saint George the Dragon made to yield . S. George for England , saint Dennis , etc The noble Alfonso , which was the spanish King , The order of the Red-scarffes and Ben-rowles he did bring , He had a troop of mighty Knights when first he did begin , that sought adventures far & amp ; near , what conquest they might win The ranks of the Pagans he often put to flight , S. George , saint George did with the Dragon fight , S. George for England , etc Many have fought with proud Tamberlaine , Cutlax the Dane , great Wars he did maintain . Rowland of Breame , and good saint Oliver In the Forest of Acon , slew both Wolf and Bear : Beside that noble Hollander , saint Goward with the Bill . S. George saint Gorge the Dragons blood did spill , S. George for England , etc Bevis conquered Ascupart , and after slew the Boor , And then he crossed beyond the seas , to combat with the More , Sir Isonbras , and Iglesmore , they were Knights bold . And good sir John Mandevile of travel much hath told : These were English Knights , that Pagans did convert . S. George , saint George plucked out the Dragons heart . S. Gorge for England , etc Valentine and Orson of King Pipins blood , Alfride and Henry , they were Knights good : The foure sons of Amon , that followed Charlemaine , Hughan of Burdeax , and Godfrey of Bullaine : These were foure French Knights , that lived in that age . S. George , saint George the Dragon did assuage : S. George for England , etc The noble Earl of Warwicke , that called was Sir Guy , The Infidels and Pagans , much he did defy : He slew the Giant Brandimore , and after was the death Of that most ghastly Dun-cow , the Devil of Duns-more heath Beside his noble deeds done beyond the seas . S. George , saint George the Dragon did appease , S. George for England , etc Richard the first , King of this land , He gored the Lion with his naked hand : The Duke of Austria nothing did he fear , He killed his son with a box on the ear : Beside , his famous acts done in the Holy land . S. George , saint George the Dragon did withstand ; S. George for England , etc Henrie the fift , he conquered all France . And quartered his Arms , his honour to advance : He razed their Cities , and threw their Castle down , And honoured his head with a double double Crown . He thumped the French-men , and homeward then he came , S. George , saint George the Dragon he did tame : Saint George for England , saint Dennis is for France , Sing Honey soit pui mal y panse . Saint David of Wales , the Welchman much advanc'de , Saint Jaques of Spaine , that never yet broke Lance : Saint Patricke of Ireland , which was saint Georges boy , And seven years he kept his Horse , that then stole him away : For which filthy fact , as slaves they do remain : Saint George , saint George the Dragon he hath slain , Saint George for England , saint Dennis is for France , Sing Honey soit qui mal y panse . FINIS . Imprinted at London by W.W. 1612. Saint Georges commendation to all Soldiers : or , S. Georges Alarm to all that profess Martial discipline , with a memorial of the Worthies , who have been born so high on the wings of Fame for their brave adventures , as they cannot be buried in the pit of oblivion . To a pleasant new tune . W High do you boast of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many men have endured fights , Beside King Arthur , and Lancelot du Lake , Sir Tristram de Lionel , that fought for Ladies sake : Read old Histories , and then thou shalt see , Saint George , Saint George the Dragon made to flee ; S. George for England , S. Dennis is for France , Sing Honey soit qui mal y panse . Marke our father Abraham when first he reschued Lot , Only with his household , what conquest there he god : David elected a Prophet and a King , He slew the great Goliah with a stone within a sling : Yet these were not Knights of the Table round . S. George , S. George , the Dragon did confound : S. George for England , S. Dennis is for France , Sing Honey soit qui mal y panse . Jason and Gedion did led their men to fight , They conquered the Amorites , and put them all to flight , Hercules his labours on the plains of Base , And Sampson slew a thousand with the jawbone of and Ass : And then he threw a Temple down , and did a mighty spoil , S. George , saint George the Dragon he did foil : S. George for England , saint Dennis is for France , etc The Wars of the Monarchs , they were too long to tell , And next of all the Roman , for they did far excel , When that Hanyball and Scipio , so many fields did fight , Orlando Furioso was a Worthy Knight : Remus and Romulus that Room first did built . S. George , saint George the Dragon made to yield . S. George for England , saint Dennis , etc The noble Alfonso , which was the spanish King , The order of the Red-scarffes and Ben-rowles he did bring , He had a troop of mighty Knights when first he did begin , that sought adventures far & amp ; near , what conquest they might win The ranks of the Pagans he often put to flight , S. George , saint George did with the Dragon fight , S. George for England , etc Many have fought with proud Tamberlaine , Cutlax the Dane , great Wars he did maintain . Rowland of Breame , and good saint Oliver In the Forest of Acon , slew both Wolf and Bear : Beside that noble Hollander , saint Goward with the Bill . S. George saint Gorge the Dragons blood did spill , S. George for England , etc Bevis conquered Ascupart , and after slew the Boor , And then he crossed beyond the seas , to combat with the More , Sir Isonbras , and Iglesmore , they were Knights bold . And good sir John Mandevile of travel much hath told : These were English Knights , that Pagans did convert . S. George , saint George plucked out the Dragons heart . S. Gorge for England , etc Valentine and Orson of King Pipins blood , Alfride and Henry , they were Knights good : The foure sons of Amon , that followed Charlemaine , Hughan of Burdeax , and Godfrey of Bullaine : These were foure French Knights , that lived in that age . S. George , saint George the Dragon did assuage : S. George for England , etc The noble Earl of Warwicke , that called was Sir Guy , The Infidels and Pagans , much he did defy : He slew the Giant Brandimore , and after was the death Of that most ghastly Dun-cow , the Devil of Duns-more heath Beside his noble deeds done beyond the seas . S. George , saint George the Dragon did appease , S. George for England , etc Richard the first , King of this land , He gored the Lion with his naked hand : The Duke of Austria nothing did he fear , He killed his son with a box on the ear : Beside , his famous acts done in the Holy land . S. George , saint George the Dragon did withstand ; S. George for England , etc Henrie the fift , he conquered all France . And quartered his Arms , his honour to advance : He razed their Cities , and threw their Castle down , And honoured his head with a double double Crown . He thumped the French-men , and homeward then he came , S. George , saint George the Dragon he did tame : Saint George for England , saint Dennis is for France , Sing Honey soit pui mal y panse . Saint David of Wales , the Welchman much advanc'de , Saint Jaques of Spaine , that never yet broke Lance : Saint Patricke of Ireland , which was saint Georges boy , And seven years he kept his Horse , that then stole him away : For which filthy fact , as slaves they do remain : Saint George , saint George the Dragon he hath slain , Saint George for England , saint Dennis is for France , Sing Honey soit qui mal y panse . FINIS . Imprinted at London by W.W. 1612. 