A warning for wives , By the example of one Katherine Francis , alias Stoke , who for killing her husband , Robert Francis with a pair of Sizers , on the 8. of Aprill at night , was burned on Clarkenwell-greene , on Tuesday , the 21 of the same month , 1629. To the tune of Bragandary . A Las what wretched bloody times do we vile sinners live in ! What horrid and what cruel crimes are done in spite of heaven ! What barbarous murders now are done none fouler since the world begun ! O women , Murderous women . whereon are your minds ? The Story which I now recite , expounds you meanings evil Those women that in blood delight , Are ruled by the Devil , Else how can the wife her husband kill , Or the Mother her own child's blood spill , O women , Murderous women , etc At Cow-crosse , near to Smithfield-barres , adjacent to the City , A man ands wife at household jars long lived , the more's the pity , Like Cat and Dog they still agreed ; Each small offence did anger breed : O Women , etc She oftentimes would beatrice him soar , and many a wound she gave him , Yet heeed not live from her therefore , to stay ill fate would have him , Till she with one inhumane wound , Threw him ( her husband ) dead toth' ground , O women , etc Upon the 8 of Aprill last , between this man and wife , Some certain words of difference past ; and all their cause of strife , Was but about a trifle small , yet that procured his fatal fallen , O women , etc This was about the hour of tenne , or rather more that night , When this was done , whereof my Pen , in tragic style does write ; The manner of's death most strange appears Being struck ith' neck with a pair of sheeres , O women , etc As many of the neighbours say , that thereabouts do dwell , This couple had most part oth' day been drinking , so they tell , And coming home at night so late , She did renew her former hate . O women , etc The second part To the same tune A Nother woman that was there , she out oth' doors did send , And had her fetch a Pot of Beer , o then drew never his end , For ere the woman came again , This wife had her own husband slain : O women , Murderous women , whereon are your minds ? She long had thirsted for his blood , ( even by her own confession ) And now her promise she made good , so heaven gave permission To Satan , who then lent her power And strength to do't that bloody hour . O women , etc It seems that he his head did lean toth' Chimney , which she spied , And straight she took , ( Oh bloody quean ) her Sisers from her side , And hit him therewith such a stroke Ith neck , that ( some think ) he never spoke . O women , etc She having done that monstrous part , ( woe worth her for her labour ) No power had from thence to start , but went unto a neighbour , And told him , that she verily thought , that she her husbands death had wrought . O women , etc The man amazed to hear the same , caught hold of her , and said , I'll know the truth , and how this came , if such a part to be played , No sooner had he said the same , But neighbours did her fact proclaim . O women , etc Then to New Prison was she sent , because it was so late , And upon the next day she went ( through Swithfield to Newgate , Where she did lie until the Session , To answer for her foul transgression . O women , etc Where she condemned was by Law , in Clarkenwell to be burned , Unto which place they did her draw , where she to ashes turned , A death , though cruel , yet too mild For one that hath a heart so vlide . O women , etc Let all good wives a warning take , in Country and in City , And think how they shall at stake be burned without pity . If they can have such barbarous hearts , What man or woman will take their parts , O women , Murderous women . whereon are your minds ? Printed at London for F . G . on Snow . hill . FINIS . M . PA warning for wives , By the example of one Katherine Francis , alias Stoke , who for killing her husband , Robert Francis with a pair of Sizers , on the 8. of Aprill at night , was burned on Clarkenwell-greene , on Tuesday , the 21 of the same month , 1629. To the tune of Bragandary . A Las what wretched bloody times do we vile sinners live in ! What horrid and what cruel crimes are done in spite of heaven ! What barbarous murders now are done none fouler since the world begun ! O women , Murderous women . whereon are your minds ? The Story which I now recite , expounds you meanings evil Those women that in blood delight , Are ruled by the Devil , Else how can the wife her husband kill , Or the Mother her own child's blood spill , O women , Murderous women , etc At Cow-crosse , near to Smithfield-barres , adjacent to the City , A man ands wife at household jars long lived , the more's the pity , Like Cat and Dog they still agreed ; Each small offence did anger breed : O Women , etc She oftentimes would beatrice him soar , and many a wound she gave him , Yet heeed not live from her therefore , to stay ill fate would have him , Till she with one inhumane wound , Threw him ( her husband ) dead toth' ground , O women , etc Upon the 8 of Aprill last , between this man and wife , Some certain words of difference past ; and all their cause of strife , Was but about a trifle small , yet that procured his fatal fallen , O women , etc This was about the hour of tenne , or rather more that night , When this was done , whereof my Pen , in tragic style does write ; The manner of's death most strange appears Being struck ith' neck with a pair of sheeres , O women , etc As many of the neighbours say , that thereabouts do dwell , This couple had most part oth' day been drinking , so they tell , And coming home at night so late , She did renew her former hate . O women , etc The second part To the same tune A Nother woman that was there , she out oth' doors did send , And had her fetch a Pot of Beer , o then drew never his end , For ere the woman came again , This wife had her own husband slain : O women , Murderous women , whereon are your minds ? She long had thirsted for his blood , ( even by her own confession ) And now her promise she made good , so heaven gave permission To Satan , who then lent her power And strength to do't that bloody hour . O women , etc It seems that he his head did lean toth' Chimney , which she spied , And straight she took , ( Oh bloody quean ) her Sisers from her side , And hit him therewith such a stroke Ith neck , that ( some think ) he never spoke . O women , etc She having done that monstrous part , ( woe worth her for her labour ) No power had from thence to start , but went unto a neighbour , And told him , that she verily thought , that she her husbands death had wrought . O women , etc The man amazed to hear the same , caught hold of her , and said , I'll know the truth , and how this came , if such a part to be played , No sooner had he said the same , But neighbours did her fact proclaim . O women , etc Then to New Prison was she sent , because it was so late , And upon the next day she went ( through Swithfield to Newgate , Where she did lie until the Session , To answer for her foul transgression . O women , etc Where she condemned was by Law , in Clarkenwell to be burned , Unto which place they did her draw , where she to ashes turned , A death , though cruel , yet too mild For one that hath a heart so vlide . O women , etc Let all good wives a warning take , in Country and in City , And think how they shall at stake be burned without pity . If they can have such barbarous hearts , What man or woman will take their parts , O women , Murderous women . whereon are your minds ? Printed at London for F . G . on Snow . hill . FINIS . M . P 