Murder unmasked , Oh R BARNEVILES base Conspiracy against his own Country , discovered : w [ ? ] unnaturally complotted to surrender into the Archdukes power , these fo [ ur ] Towns , Utreicht , Nimingham , Bergen-op-zome , and Brill : Together with his horrible intent to murder Grave Maurice , and others . To the tune of Welladay . A Ll you that Christians be usefully , usefully , Consider now with me Gods bounteous mercy : Though Truth hath been denied And Papists it defied , Yet still does it abide free from suppression . How many Treasons vile have been laid , have been laid , Gods pure Word to defile , in every Country : Yet still he keeps the same From blemish , hurt , or blame , And brings them all to shame that fight against it . What strange complots have been gainst the truth , gainst the truth , Throughout the world is seen to-have been attempted : Yet Christ his church will have , And his Professors save , In spite of Pope , or slave that would confound it . Approved this may be at this time , at this time , By Barnviles treachery gainst the Low-countries : Who with vain hope's misled , Devised to-have struck all dead , And to have murdered men , wives , and children . He did counterfeit [ nsul ] tO with Hell impiously , impiously , Their frontier towns to fell to Austria's Duke : To murder great and small , With th'English soldiers all That slept within the wall of every City . Yet here he did not stay , but conspired , but conspired Grave Maurice for to slay , with other Princes . Thus midst this bloody broy [ le ] He would have made a spoil [ e ] Of his own native soil . without all pity . This Tiger fierce of mind , merciless , merciless , these towns would have resig [ ned ] to Tyrants power : Who would have banished that [ ? ] The Gospel shining clear , And in its stead uprear trash and Traditions . But this discovered was wondrously , wondrously : And nothing brought to pass what he inten [ worser ] ed : For God did from the sky , Cast down his watchful eye , His treasons to descry , and cross his purpose . The Second Part. N Owe are his TO reasons known to his shame , to his shame : And to all Statesmen shown , for their example : That God pursues his foes , With heavy overthrows , Who do their Hate disclose gainst Gospellizing . What savage Monster would thus have slave , thus have slave His friends ; and Country sold for filthy lucre : Outmatcht this Deed cannot , Except with Powder-plot , W hich never will be forgotten till the last Judgement . Of grace he had no touch in his heart , in his heart , But still did favour much the A rminian Faction : And did his God forsake , W hich him did overtake , And drenched him in the Lake of deep destruction . His Secretary then seeing well , seeing well Their damned plots made plain to both their ruins : Himself killed in the night , W ith knife made sharp & amp ; bright So gave the devil his right by his despairing , You Politians all , carefully , carefully , Be war'nd by Barnviles fallen midst his foul actions : See you no mischiefs weave , That will your selves deceive , And souls of bliss bereave passed all redemption . And let each English heart speedily , speedily , From Popery depart as from fell poison . May he his birthday rue , That strives for to subdue The Gospel pure and true in this our Nation . God guide our gracious King peacefully , peacefully : And at the last him bring to joys eternal ; W here he among the best Of Saints and Angels blessed , May live in joy and rest time without ending . So bless our virtuous Queen with this gift , with this gift : That still her Fruit be seen amongst us to flourish : As long as Cedars bud , And streams glide from the flood , So long her royal Blood here sway the Sceptre . And pour on us thy Grace plenteously , plenteously , To mourn while we have space for sins committed : That when Death us does take And we this world forsake , We good account may make at our last ending . Printed by W . I.Murther unmasked , Oh R BARNEVILES base Conspiracy against his own Country , discovered : w [ ? ] unnaturally complotted to surrender into the Archdukes power , these fo [ ur ] Towns , Utreicht , Nimingham , Bergen-op-zome , and Brill : Together with his horrible intent to murder Grave Maurice , and others . To the tune of Welladay . A Ll you that Christians be usefully , usefully , Consider now with me Gods bounteous mercy : Though Truth hath been denied And Papists it defied , Yet still does it abide free from suppression . How many Treasons vile have been laid , have been laid , Gods pure Word to defile , in every Country : Yet still he keeps the same From blemish , hurt , or blame , And brings them all to shame that fight against it . What strange complots have been gainst the truth , gainst the truth , Throughout the world is seen to-have been attempted : Yet Christ his church will have , And his Professors save , In spite of Pope , or slave that would confound it . Approved this may be at this time , at this time , By Barnviles treachery gainst the Low-countries : Who with vain hope's misled , Devised to-have struck all dead , And to have murdered men , wives , and children . He did counterfeit [ nsul ] tO with Hell impiously , impiously , Their frontier towns to fell to Austria's Duke : To murder great and small , With th'English soldiers all That slept within the wall of every City . Yet here he did not stay , but conspired , but conspired Grave Maurice for to slay , with other Princes . Thus midst this bloody broy [ le ] He would have made a spoil [ e ] Of his own native soil . without all pity . This Tiger fierce of mind , merciless , merciless , these towns would have resig [ ned ] to Tyrants power : Who would have banished that [ ? ] The Gospel shining clear , And in its stead uprear trash and Traditions . But this discovered was wondrously , wondrously : And nothing brought to pass what he inten [ worser ] ed : For God did from the sky , Cast down his watchful eye , His treasons to descry , and cross his purpose . The Second Part. N Owe are his TO reasons known to his shame , to his shame : And to all Statesmen shown , for their example : That God pursues his foes , With heavy overthrows , Who do their Hate disclose gainst Gospellizing . What savage Monster would thus have slave , thus have slave His friends ; and Country sold for filthy lucre : Outmatcht this Deed cannot , Except with Powder-plot , W hich never will be forgotten till the last Judgement . Of grace he had no touch in his heart , in his heart , But still did favour much the A rminian Faction : And did his God forsake , W hich him did overtake , And drenched him in the Lake of deep destruction . His Secretary then seeing well , seeing well Their damned plots made plain to both their ruins : Himself killed in the night , W ith knife made sharp & amp ; bright So gave the devil his right by his despairing , You Politians all , carefully , carefully , Be war'nd by Barnviles fallen midst his foul actions : See you no mischiefs weave , That will your selves deceive , And souls of bliss bereave passed all redemption . And let each English heart speedily , speedily , From Popery depart as from fell poison . May he his birthday rue , That strives for to subdue The Gospel pure and true in this our Nation . God guide our gracious King peacefully , peacefully : And at the last him bring to joys eternal ; W here he among the best Of Saints and Angels blessed , May live in joy and rest time without ending . So bless our virtuous Queen with this gift , with this gift : That still her Fruit be seen amongst us to flourish : As long as Cedars bud , And streams glide from the flood , So long her royal Blood here sway the Sceptre . And pour on us thy Grace plenteously , plenteously , To mourn while we have space for sins committed : That when Death us does take And we this world forsake , We good account may make at our last ending . Printed by W.I. 