John Spenser a Chesshire Gallant , his life and repentance , who for killing of one Randall Gam : was lately executed at Burford a mile from Nantwich . To the tune of in Slumbering Sleep . K ind hearted men , a while give ear and [ plainly ] I'll unfold The sad [ est tale that ] ever yet , by mortal man was told . One Spenser brave , of Cheshire chief , for men of brave rega [ rd ] e : Yet he unto his Countries grief , did good with ill reward . At Acton , near Nantwich was born this man , so famde of all ; Whose skill at each brave exercise , was not accounted small : For beating of the warlike Drum , no man could him surpass : For dancing , leaping , and such like , in Cheshire never was . For shooting none durst him oppose , he would aim so fair and right ; Yet long he shot in crooked Bows , and could not hit the white : For striving still more things to learn , the more he grew beloved ; No Shoemaker but Spenser brave , by women was so proved . Those qualities did draw his mind , from reason quite and clean , And vildly heeed forsake his wife , for the love of every Quean : By Women he maintained was in parill fine and brave , John Spenser could no good thing want , for he could but ask , and have . In Silks and Satins would he go , none might with him compare ; No fashion might devised be , but his should be as fair ; When as ( God knows ) his wife at home should pine with hungry grief , And none [ woe ] uld pity her hard case , or lend her some relief . While he abroad did flaunt it out among his lustful Queans , Poor soul of force she sits at home , without either help or means . Thus long he lived basely vild , [ contained ] of all thats good , Till at the last of hard mischance , he did shed Guiltless Blood . One Randall Gam being drunk , with Spenser out did fallen : And he being apt to Quarilling , would not be ruled at all . But about the Pledging of a Glass , to which he would not yield , He vowed he either would be pledged or answered fair in field . This answer Randall Gam did deny , which Spencer plainly found , And being raged he struck on blow , felled Randal gam to the ground . Seven weeks upon this he lay , ere life from him did part : And at the last to earth and clay , his Body did convert . Then Spenser was in prison cast his friends full far did lie , For friendship in them proved cold , and none would come him nigh . That man being killed , beloved was well of all men far and near , And some did follow Law so far , did cost poor Spenser deer . For though he killed him by mischance , yet Law him so disdains . That for his unrespected blow , he there was hanged in Chains . He that was killed , had many friends , the other few or none , Therefore the Law , on that side went , and the other was orethrone . He being dead , two Milk white Doves , did hover over his head , And would not leave that heartless place , after he three hours was dead . Two milk white Butterflies did light , upon his Breeches there : And stood Confronting peoples sighed , to their amaze and fear . Though he was vildly bent in life , and hanged the Law to quit : Yet he was stolen away by his wife , and Buried in the night . His true repentance is expressed , within the second part : With all his Gilded he hath confessed , when troubled was his heart . FINIS . by Thomas Dickerson . John Spenser his Repentance in Prison , Written with his own hands as he lay in Chester Castle . To the same tune . KInd Youngmen all to me give ear , observe these lessons well ; For undeserved my death I took , and sad is the tale I tell . I prisoned penned , I lie full fast , sure Heaven hath decreed : That though I thrived , yet at last , bad fortune's should proceed . I that for practice passed all , in exercises strong , Have here for one offence but small . been penned in Prison long . Kind Countrymen , fair warning take , being bad , amend your lives , For sure Heaven will them forsake , that do forsake their wives . I have a wife , a loving wife , a constant , and a kind ; Yet proud of gifts , I turned my life , and falce she did me find : Heaven showed his part in making me , proper in limbs and face , Yet of it I no true use made , but reaped thereby disgrace . For being proud in dancings art , most women's loves I gained : By them a long time was my life in gallant sort maintained : No Maiden young , about the town , but joyful was to see The face of Spenser and would spend , all for to dance with me . I spent my time in Rioting , and proudly led my life , I had my choice of damsels fair , what carded I for my wife , If once she came to entreat me home , i'd kick her out of doors , Indeed I would be ruled by none , but by enticing whores . At length being pledging of a Glass , my hope's I did confound : And in my rag I felled my friend , with one blow to the ground . For this offence , he being dead , and I in Prison cast : Most void of hope's this rashing hand hath Spensers name disgraced . None but my wife will visit me , for those I loved before , Being in this sad extremytie , will visit me no more , No help I find from these false friends , no food to enrich my life : Now do I find the difference true , betwixt them and a constant wife But she poor soul , by my bad means , is quit bereft of all : She plays the part of a Constant wife , although her helps be small . Young men , youngmen , take heed by me shun Dangers , Brawls , and Strife : For though he fell against my will , I for it lose my life . O live like men and not like me , of no good gifts be proud : For if with you God angry be , from his vengeance nought can shroud . Make use of what you have practised well . and not in vicious means , If in rare gifts you do excel , yet trust not Vicious Queans . For lust does fully fill their Vains , and apt they be to entice : Oh therefore shun their company , like good men still be wise . Example truly take of me , all Vicious courses shun : For only by bad company , poor Spenser is undone . FINIS . by John Spenser . Imprinted at London for J. TrundleJohn Spenser a Chesshire Gallant , his life and repentance , who for killing of one Randall Gam : was lately executed at Burford a mile from Nantwich . To the tune of in Slumbering Sleep . K ind hearted men , a while give ear and [ plainly ] I'll unfold The sad [ est tale that ] ever yet , by mortal man was told . One Spenser brave , of Cheshire chief , for men of brave rega [ rd ] e : Yet he unto his Countries grief , did good with ill reward . At Acton , near Nantwich was born this man , so famde of all ; Whose skill at each brave exercise , was not accounted small : For beating of the warlike Drum , no man could him surpass : For dancing , leaping , and such like , in Cheshire never was . For shooting none durst him oppose , he would aim so fair and right ; Yet long he shot in crooked Bows , and could not hit the white : For striving still more things to learn , the more he grew beloved ; No Shoemaker but Spenser brave , by women was so proved . Those qualities did draw his mind , from reason quite and clean , And vildly heeed forsake his wife , for the love of every Quean : By Women he maintained was in parill fine and brave , John Spenser could no good thing want , for he could but ask , and have . In Silks and Satins would he go , none might with him compare ; No fashion might devised be , but his should be as fair ; When as ( God knows ) his wife at home should pine with hungry grief , And none [ woe ] uld pity her hard case , or lend her some relief . While he abroad did flaunt it out among his lustful Queans , Poor soul of force she sits at home , without either help or means . Thus long he lived basely vild , [ contained ] of all thats good , Till at the last of hard mischance , he did shed Guiltless Blood . One Randall Gam being drunk , with Spenser out did fallen : And he being apt to Quarilling , would not be ruled at all . But about the Pledging of a Glass , to which he would not yield , He vowed he either would be pledged or answered fair in field . This answer Randall Gam did deny , which Spencer plainly found , And being raged he struck on blow , felled Randal gam to the ground . Seven weeks upon this he lay , ere life from him did part : And at the last to earth and clay , his Body did convert . Then Spenser was in prison cast his friends full far did lie , For friendship in them proved cold , and none would come him nigh . That man being killed , beloved was well of all men far and near , And some did follow Law so far , did cost poor Spenser deer . For though he killed him by mischance , yet Law him so disdains . That for his unrespected blow , he there was hanged in Chains . He that was killed , had many friends , the other few or none , Therefore the Law , on that side went , and the other was orethrone . He being dead , two Milk white Doves , did hover over his head , And would not leave that heartless place , after he three hours was dead . Two milk white Butterflies did light , upon his Breeches there : And stood Confronting peoples sighed , to their amaze and fear . Though he was vildly bent in life , and hanged the Law to quit : Yet he was stolen away by his wife , and Buried in the night . His true repentance is expressed , within the second part : With all his Gilded he hath confessed , when troubled was his heart . FINIS . by Thomas Dickerson . John Spenser his Repentance in Prison , Written with his own hands as he lay in Chester Castle . To the same tune . KInd Youngmen all to me give ear , observe these lessons well ; For undeserved my death I took , and sad is the tale I tell . I prisoned penned , I lie full fast , sure Heaven hath decreed : That though I thrived , yet at last , bad fortune's should proceed . I that for practice passed all , in exercises strong , Have here for one offence but small . been penned in Prison long . Kind Countrymen , fair warning take , being bad , amend your lives , For sure Heaven will them forsake , that do forsake their wives . I have a wife , a loving wife , a constant , and a kind ; Yet proud of gifts , I turned my life , and falce she did me find : Heaven showed his part in making me , proper in limbs and face , Yet of it I no true use made , but reaped thereby disgrace . For being proud in dancings art , most women's loves I gained : By them a long time was my life in gallant sort maintained : No Maiden young , about the town , but joyful was to see The face of Spenser and would spend , all for to dance with me . I spent my time in Rioting , and proudly led my life , I had my choice of damsels fair , what carded I for my wife , If once she came to entreat me home , i'd kick her out of doors , Indeed I would be ruled by none , but by enticing whores . At length being pledging of a Glass , my hope's I did confound : And in my rag I felled my friend , with one blow to the ground . For this offence , he being dead , and I in Prison cast : Most void of hope's this rashing hand hath Spensers name disgraced . None but my wife will visit me , for those I loved before , Being in this sad extremytie , will visit me no more , No help I find from these false friends , no food to enrich my life : Now do I find the difference true , betwixt them and a constant wife But she poor soul , by my bad means , is quit bereft of all : She plays the part of a Constant wife , although her helps be small . Young men , youngmen , take heed by me shun Dangers , Brawls , and Strife : For though he fell against my will , I for it lose my life . O live like men and not like me , of no good gifts be proud : For if with you God angry be , from his vengeance nought can shroud . Make use of what you have practised well . and not in vicious means , If in rare gifts you do excel , yet trust not Vicious Queans . For lust does fully fill their Vains , and apt they be to entice : Oh therefore shun their company , like good men still be wise . Example truly take of me , all Vicious courses shun : For only by bad company , poor Spenser is undone . FINIS . by John Spenser . Imprinted at London for J. Trundle 