The unnatural Wife : Or , The lamentable Murder , of one goodman Davis , Locke - Smith in Tutle-streete , who was stabbed to death by his Wife , on the 29. of June , 1628. For which fact , She was Arraigned , Condemned , and Adjudged , to be Burned to Death in Smithfield , the 12. July 1628. To the tune of Bragandary . IF woeful objects may excite , the mind to ruth and pity , Then here is one will thee affright in Westminsters fair City : A strange inhumane Murder there , To God , and Man as does appear : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . But God that rules the host of Heaven , did give me over to sin , And to vild wrath my mind was given , which long I lived in ; But now too late I do repent , And for the same my heart does rend : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . Let all cursed Wives by me take heed , how they do , do the like , Cause not thy Husband for to bleed , nor lift thy hand to strike ; Lest like to me , you burn in fire , Because of cruel rage and ire : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . A Locke-Smith late in Westminster , my Husband was by trade , And well he lived by his Art , though oft I him ubbraide ; And often times would chide and braule , And many ill names would him call : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . The second part . To the same Tune . I And my Husband forth had been , at Supper at that time , When as I did commit that since , which was a bloody crime ; And coming home he then did crave , A Shilling of me for to have : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . I vowed he should no Money get , and I my vow did keep , Which then did cause him for to fret , but now it makes me weep ; And then in striving for the same , I drew my knife unto my shame : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . Most desperately I stabbed him then , with this my fatal knife , Which is a warning to Women , to take their Husbands life ; Then out of doors I straight did run , And said that I was quite undone , o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . My Husband I did say was slain , among my Neighbours there , And to my house they strait way came , being possessed with fear ; And then they found him on the floor , Stark dead all weltering in his goore , o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . Life feign I would have fetched again , but now it was too late , I did repent I him had slain , in this my heavy state ; The Constable did bear me then Unto a Justice with his men : o murder , etc Then Justice me to Newgate sent , until the Sessions came , For this same foul and bloody fact , to answer for the same ; When at the Bar I did appear , The Jury found me guilty there : o murder , etc The Judge gave sentence thus on me , that back I should return To Newgate , and then at a Stake , my bones and flesh should burn To ashes , in the wind to fly , Upon the Earth , and in the Sky . o murder , etc Upon the twelfth of Juely now , I on a Hurdle placed , Unto my Execution drawn , by weeping eyes I passed ; And there in Smith-field at a Stake , My latest breath I there did take : o murder , etc And being chained to the Stake , both Redes and Faggots then Close to my Body there was set , with Pitch , Tar , and Rozen , Then to the heavenly Lord I prayed , That he would be my strength and aid . o murder , most inhumane , To spill my husbands blood . Let me a warning be to Wives , that are of hasty kind , Lord grant that all may mend their lives , and bear my death in mind , And let me be the last I pray , That ere may die by such like way . O Father for thy Sons sake , Forgive my sins for aye . Printed at London for M.T. Widow . FINIS . The unnatural Wife : Or , The lamentable Murder , of one goodman Davis , Locke - Smith in Tutle-streete , who was stabbed to death by his Wife , on the 29. of June , 1628. For which fact , She was Arraigned , Condemned , and Adjudged , to be Burned to Death in Smithfield , the 12. July 1628. To the tune of Bragandary . IF woeful objects may excite , the mind to ruth and pity , Then here is one will thee affright in Westminsters fair City : A strange inhumane Murder there , To God , and Man as does appear : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . But God that rules the host of Heaven , did give me over to sin , And to vild wrath my mind was given , which long I lived in ; But now too late I do repent , And for the same my heart does rend : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . Let all cursed Wives by me take heed , how they do , do the like , Cause not thy Husband for to bleed , nor lift thy hand to strike ; Lest like to me , you burn in fire , Because of cruel rage and ire : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . A Locke-Smith late in Westminster , my Husband was by trade , And well he lived by his Art , though oft I him ubbraide ; And often times would chide and braule , And many ill names would him call : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . The second part . To the same Tune . I And my Husband forth had been , at Supper at that time , When as I did commit that since , which was a bloody crime ; And coming home he then did crave , A Shilling of me for to have : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . I vowed he should no Money get , and I my vow did keep , Which then did cause him for to fret , but now it makes me weep ; And then in striving for the same , I drew my knife unto my shame : o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . Most desperately I stabbed him then , with this my fatal knife , Which is a warning to Women , to take their Husbands life ; Then out of doors I straight did run , And said that I was quite undone , o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . My Husband I did say was slain , among my Neighbours there , And to my house they strait way came , being possessed with fear ; And then they found him on the floor , Stark dead all weltering in his goore , o murder , most inhumane , To spill my Husbands blood . Life feign I would have fetched again , but now it was too late , I did repent I him had slain , in this my heavy state ; The Constable did bear me then Unto a Justice with his men : o murder , etc Then Justice me to Newgate sent , until the Sessions came , For this same foul and bloody fact , to answer for the same ; When at the Bar I did appear , The Jury found me guilty there : o murder , etc The Judge gave sentence thus on me , that back I should return To Newgate , and then at a Stake , my bones and flesh should burn To ashes , in the wind to fly , Upon the Earth , and in the Sky . o murder , etc Upon the twelfth of Juely now , I on a Hurdle placed , Unto my Execution drawn , by weeping eyes I passed ; And there in Smith-field at a Stake , My latest breath I there did take : o murder , etc And being chained to the Stake , both Redes and Faggots then Close to my Body there was set , with Pitch , Tar , and Rozen , Then to the heavenly Lord I prayed , That he would be my strength and aid . o murder , most inhumane , To spill my husbands blood . Let me a warning be to Wives , that are of hasty kind , Lord grant that all may mend their lives , and bear my death in mind , And let me be the last I pray , That ere may die by such like way . O Father for thy Sons sake , Forgive my sins for aye . Printed at London for M.T. Widow . FINIS . 