The life and death of M. Geo : Sands , who after many enor - mous crimes by him committed , with Jones and Gent his confederates , was executed at Tyburne on Wednesday the 6 of September , 1626. To the tune of Flying Fame . C Ome hither youngmen and give ear , and good example take , By this which is related here for admonitions sake , Wherein is shown the life and death , of Sands that noted thief . The reason why he lost his breath , is here declared in brief . That all young men from him may learn to live in better awe , Foul vice from virtue to discern , according to the law : A wicked life this caitiff led , rejecting virtues lore , The grace of God from him was fled , all good he did abhor . Since first he came to any strength , he practised nought but stealing , Which brought a shameful death at length for his ungracious dealing , He always hath himself maintained by base sinister courses , And oftentimes hath been arraigned by Law , for stealing horses . Yet still it was his luck to escape , which hardened him in evil , From theft to murder , and to rape , suborned by the Devil , His wicked heart so bent to since , in villainy took pride , There lived scarce the like of him , in all the Land beside . His name so infamous was grown to all both far and near , And he took pride to have it known , as by him did appear . For when he was arraigned of late , at the Tribunal seat , He seemed to exhilarate , at his offences great . And boasted that he oftentimes had scaped the fatal cord , For stealing horses , and such crimes , as high ways do afford , And with a braving impudence , he did the Bench outface , Not showing any reverence , to any in that place . The facts he was indited for , were three enornous sins , Which God and nature does abhor , the least damnation wins , Without the special grace of God , for which he never sought , Nor never seemed to be sad , for that which he had wrought . The Maid that on Saint James his day , was found near Holborne dead , This [ tO ] hought this wretch did make away , if all be true that's said . From her he took away twelve pound , and then to ma [ k ] e all sure , He strangled her , as she was found , his safety to procure . The second part . To the same tune . B Ut no such crimes can be concealed , old time will find them out , And have them to the world revealed , and published all about , As this strange murder came to light , by Sands his own confession , When as he sought with all his might , to act a foul transgression , Upon the body of a Maid , whom he perforce did ravish , If she opposed his will he said with speeches somewhat lavish : That if she did deny to yield to him , heeed serve her so , As he did one in Holborne field not very long ago . To this foul since of ravishment he likewise did seduce Another youngman , whose consent gave aid to this abuse . For which by law he hath his doom , to suffer shamefully , Take heed young men how you do come into lewd company . For if young Jones had never seen this wicked Sands his face , He surely now had living been , but wanting Gods good grace , He was allured by his means to live by lawless stealth , Thus to maintain strong drink & amp ; queans he robbed the commonwealth . Some other men of good regard , he did to robbery draw , All these with him in death have shared , according to the Law . But he the chief occasion was of these same youngmen's ends , Whose death's have brought to woeful pass their parents and their friends . Among the rest one father Jones , and honest ancient man , With lachrimable tears bemones the loss of his own son . But Sands hath run so [ w ] ild a raze , that few bewail his death , How many flocked with joy to'th place where he did loose his breath . His father nam Sir George Sands , when by his careless dealing , He had quite wasted goods and lands , did live long time by stealing : And with his wicked Lady wife , did rob the high way side , For which at length he lost his life , and by base hanging died . Thus both the father and the son did end their lives alike , The Lady yet hath escaped that death , and sorrow does her strike . God grant her life may now be such , that men of her may say , Her life was lewd , yet now she's proved a convert at last day . Loe here you see a fearful end , of Sir George Sands his son , Let every one a warning take , and better courses run : Which to effect let us all pray to him that gave us breath , That of his mercy he'll us keep from such untimely death . The following lines Jones writ with his own hand , a little before his death . To me death is not death , but life for ever . My joy in heaven is , which endeth never . Lord thou hast promised to the penitent , That thou wilt save him if he do repent : And now most gracious Lord , I crave of thee . Mercy for him that hath contemned thee , I am a sinner ( Lord ) thou knowest I am , And full of ill , above an'other man , Yet am I free from'th fault for which I die , But have transgressed the Laws most heinously . O save my soul , Oh Lord of thee I crave , Let that mount up , though body rot in grave . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Couls , and are to be sold at his shop at the upper end of the Old Baily near Newgate . The life and death of M. Geo : Sands , who after many enor - mous crimes by him committed , with Jones and Gent his confederates , was executed at Tyburne on Wednesday the 6 of September , 1626. To the tune of Flying Fame . C Ome hither youngmen and give ear , and good example take , By this which is related here for admonitions sake , Wherein is shown the life and death , of Sands that noted thief . The reason why he lost his breath , is here declared in brief . That all young men from him may learn to live in better awe , Foul vice from virtue to discern , according to the law : A wicked life this caitiff led , rejecting virtues lore , The grace of God from him was fled , all good he did abhor . Since first he came to any strength , he practised nought but stealing , Which brought a shameful death at length for his ungracious dealing , He always hath himself maintained by base sinister courses , And oftentimes hath been arraigned by Law , for stealing horses . Yet still it was his luck to escape , which hardened him in evil , From theft to murder , and to rape , suborned by the Devil , His wicked heart so bent to since , in villainy took pride , There lived scarce the like of him , in all the Land beside . His name so infamous was grown to all both far and near , And he took pride to have it known , as by him did appear . For when he was arraigned of late , at the Tribunal seat , He seemed to exhilarate , at his offences great . And boasted that he oftentimes had scaped the fatal cord , For stealing horses , and such crimes , as high ways do afford , And with a braving impudence , he did the Bench outface , Not showing any reverence , to any in that place . The facts he was indited for , were three enornous sins , Which God and nature does abhor , the least damnation wins , Without the special grace of God , for which he never sought , Nor never seemed to be sad , for that which he had wrought . The Maid that on Saint James his day , was found near Holborne dead , This [ tO ] hought this wretch did make away , if all be true that's said . From her he took away twelve pound , and then to ma [ k ] e all sure , He strangled her , as she was found , his safety to procure . The second part . To the same tune . B Ut no such crimes can be concealed , old time will find them out , And have them to the world revealed , and published all about , As this strange murder came to light , by Sands his own confession , When as he sought with all his might , to act a foul transgression , Upon the body of a Maid , whom he perforce did ravish , If she opposed his will he said with speeches somewhat lavish : That if she did deny to yield to him , heeed serve her so , As he did one in Holborne field not very long ago . To this foul since of ravishment he likewise did seduce Another youngman , whose consent gave aid to this abuse . For which by law he hath his doom , to suffer shamefully , Take heed young men how you do come into lewd company . For if young Jones had never seen this wicked Sands his face , He surely now had living been , but wanting Gods good grace , He was allured by his means to live by lawless stealth , Thus to maintain strong drink & amp ; queans he robbed the commonwealth . Some other men of good regard , he did to robbery draw , All these with him in death have shared , according to the Law . But he the chief occasion was of these same youngmen's ends , Whose death's have brought to woeful pass their parents and their friends . Among the rest one father Jones , and honest ancient man , With lachrimable tears bemones the loss of his own son . But Sands hath run so [ w ] ild a raze , that few bewail his death , How many flocked with joy to'th place where he did loose his breath . His father nam Sir George Sands , when by his careless dealing , He had quite wasted goods and lands , did live long time by stealing : And with his wicked Lady wife , did rob the high way side , For which at length he lost his life , and by base hanging died . Thus both the father and the son did end their lives alike , The Lady yet hath escaped that death , and sorrow does her strike . God grant her life may now be such , that men of her may say , Her life was lewd , yet now she's proved a convert at last day . Loe here you see a fearful end , of Sir George Sands his son , Let every one a warning take , and better courses run : Which to effect let us all pray to him that gave us breath , That of his mercy he'll us keep from such untimely death . The following lines Jones writ with his own hand , a little before his death . To me death is not death , but life for ever . My joy in heaven is , which endeth never . Lord thou hast promised to the penitent , That thou wilt save him if he do repent : And now most gracious Lord , I crave of thee . Mercy for him that hath contemned thee , I am a sinner ( Lord ) thou knowest I am , And full of ill , above an'other man , Yet am I free from'th fault for which I die , But have transgressed the Laws most heinously . O save my soul , Oh Lord of thee I crave , Let that mount up , though body rot in grave . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Couls , and are to be sold at his shop at the upper end of the Old Baily near Newgate . 