The Lamentation of Master Pages wife of Plimmouth , who being inforced by her Parents to wed him against her will , did most wickedly consent to his murder , for the love of George Strangwidge : for which fact she suffered death at Barstable in Devonshire . Written with her own hand a little before her death . To the tune of Fortune . U Nhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despised of grace , that proffered grace did scorn , My lawless love that luckless wrought my woe , My discontent content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My hateful deed with heart I do repent : A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepared to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find : Great wealth there was , yea gold and money store , But yet my heart had chosen long before . My eye misliked my Father's liking quite : My heart did loath my Parents found delight : My grieved mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I craved they would me not constrain , With tears I cried their purpose to refrain : With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Father's will my wishes did prevent : Though wealthy Page possessed my outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was but wrapped in all woe , Great discontents within my heart did grow , I loathed to live , yet lived in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Pages wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did scorn his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loathe to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none I should despise him so , That such disdain within my mind did grow , Save only this that fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my love . But here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mused to make him straight away , I that became his discontented wife : Contented was he should be rid of life . Me thinks that heaven cries vengeance for my fact , Me thinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Me thinks within , my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hell fire is my endue . My pensive life does sorrow for my sin , For this offence my soul does bleed within , Yet mercy Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never would I wish of low or high , A longer life and see sweet Strangwidge die . Ah woe is me that had not better grace , To stay till he had run out Nature's raze : My deed I rue , but more I do lament , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon a golden tree : Consider well , and rightful Judges be , And give your doom betwixt Parents love and me . I was their child and born for to obey , Yet not to wed where I no love could lay . I married was to muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge wife . Ah wretched world which cankered rust does blind , And cursed men that bear a greedy mind , And hapless I whom Parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . you Devonshire dams , & amp ; courteous Cornwal knights That here are come to visit woeful wights : Regard my grief and mark my woeful end , And to your Children be a better friend . And thou my deer which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the force of death to try , Like as we lived and loved together true , So both at once let's bid the world adue . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thine , in heaven shall ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now , whose mournful minds do show Your hearts disease and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for hope my heart does tell , Ere day be done , that I shall be full well . And Plimmouth proud I bid thee eke farewell , Take heed you wives let not your hands rebel : And farewell life wherein such sorrow flows , And welcome grave which must my corpses enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds : My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed it free . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true love betwixt each Man and Wife : And give all Parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marred where minds do not agree . Finis The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for consenting to the death of Master Page of Plim - mouth , suffered death at Barstable . 1609 , TO He man that sighs and sorrows for his sin , The corpses which care and woe hath wrapped in In doleful sort records his Swanlike Song , That waits for death and loathes to live so long . O Granfield cause of my committed crime , Snared in wealth as birds in bush of lime : What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite , Against my good and eke my loves delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door : Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for muck didst make : When aged Page thy Daughter home did take : Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which was the cause that foure of us must die . Ulalia fair , more bright then summer's Sun , Whose beauty had my heart for ever wone : My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold mine own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do lament But that I loved I cannot it repent : Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death might thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me of right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my Love whose loyal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my Love , the pride of Plimmouth Town , Farewell the Flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years , great was the cost , I know Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow : Yet afterwards so soar did fortune [ l ] our , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , This was the fault by matching them unfit , And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , I gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that I consent did give , Had I denied , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , her suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In justice Lord do thou no vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his sake . The sorrowful complaint of Mistress Page , for causing her Husband to be murdered , for the love of George Strangwidge , who were executed together . I F ever woe did touch a Woman's heart , Or grief did gaul for since the inward part My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well my sorrow for my since . When years were young my Father forced me wed , Against my will , where fancy was not led , I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered to my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight : But gold nor gift my heart could not remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Me thought his sighed was loathsome in mine eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth I lived a loathsome life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to them that did our welfare let : His love in me so deep a root did take , I could have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was even through my Parents plain , Wronged he was through found desire of gain , If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's deed , And grant all maidens to take better heed , If I had constant been unto my friend . I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace , I sought my own decay , And was the cause to cast my friend awaThe Lamentation of Master Pages wife of Plimmouth , who being inforced by her Parents to wed him against her will , did most wickedly consent to his murder , for the love of George Strangwidge : for which fact she suffered death at Barstable in Devonshire . Written with her own hand a little before her death . To the tune of Fortune . U Nhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despised of grace , that proffered grace did scorn , My lawless love that luckless wrought my woe , My discontent content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My hateful deed with heart I do repent : A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepared to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find : Great wealth there was , yea gold and money store , But yet my heart had chosen long before . My eye misliked my Father's liking quite : My heart did loath my Parents found delight : My grieved mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I craved they would me not constrain , With tears I cried their purpose to refrain : With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Father's will my wishes did prevent : Though wealthy Page possessed my outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was but wrapped in all woe , Great discontents within my heart did grow , I loathed to live , yet lived in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Pages wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did scorn his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loathe to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none I should despise him so , That such disdain within my mind did grow , Save only this that fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my love . But here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mused to make him straight away , I that became his discontented wife : Contented was he should be rid of life . Me thinks that heaven cries vengeance for my fact , Me thinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Me thinks within , my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hell fire is my endue . My pensive life does sorrow for my sin , For this offence my soul does bleed within , Yet mercy Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never would I wish of low or high , A longer life and see sweet Strangwidge die . Ah woe is me that had not better grace , To stay till he had run out Nature's raze : My deed I rue , but more I do lament , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon a golden tree : Consider well , and rightful Judges be , And give your doom betwixt Parents love and me . I was their child and born for to obey , Yet not to wed where I no love could lay . I married was to muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge wife . Ah wretched world which cankered rust does blind , And cursed men that bear a greedy mind , And hapless I whom Parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . you Devonshire dams , & amp ; courteous Cornwal knights That here are come to visit woeful wights : Regard my grief and mark my woeful end , And to your Children be a better friend . And thou my deer which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the force of death to try , Like as we lived and loved together true , So both at once let's bid the world adue . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thine , in heaven shall ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now , whose mournful minds do show Your hearts disease and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for hope my heart does tell , Ere day be done , that I shall be full well . And Plimmouth proud I bid thee eke farewell , Take heed you wives let not your hands rebel : And farewell life wherein such sorrow flows , And welcome grave which must my corpses enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds : My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed it free . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true love betwixt each Man and Wife : And give all Parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marred where minds do not agree . Finis The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for consenting to the death of Master Page of Plim - mouth , suffered death at Barstable . 1609 , TO He man that sighs and sorrows for his sin , The corpses which care and woe hath wrapped in In doleful sort records his Swanlike Song , That waits for death and loathes to live so long . O Granfield cause of my committed crime , Snared in wealth as birds in bush of lime : What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite , Against my good and eke my loves delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door : Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for muck didst make : When aged Page thy Daughter home did take : Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which was the cause that foure of us must die . Ulalia fair , more bright then summer's Sun , Whose beauty had my heart for ever wone : My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold mine own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do lament But that I loved I cannot it repent : Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death might thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me of right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my Love whose loyal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my Love , the pride of Plimmouth Town , Farewell the Flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years , great was the cost , I know Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow : Yet afterwards so soar did fortune [ l ] our , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , This was the fault by matching them unfit , And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , I gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that I consent did give , Had I denied , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , her suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In justice Lord do thou no vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his sake . The sorrowful complaint of Mistress Page , for causing her Husband to be murdered , for the love of George Strangwidge , who were executed together . I F ever woe did touch a Woman's heart , Or grief did gaul for since the inward part My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well my sorrow for my since . When years were young my Father forced me wed , Against my will , where fancy was not led , I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered to my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight : But gold nor gift my heart could not remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Me thought his sighed was loathsome in mine eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth I lived a loathsome life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to them that did our welfare let : His love in me so deep a root did take , I could have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was even through my Parents plain , Wronged he was through found desire of gain , If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's deed , And grant all maidens to take better heed , If I had constant been unto my friend . I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace , I sought my own decay , And was the cause to cast my friend away : And he in whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss , a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George , my loving faithful friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend , My bloody deed , Oh Lord do me forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world and friends that fickle bee , All wives farewell , example take by me : Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape each foul and filthy vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death : Forgive my faults and follies I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . FINIS . London Printed for H. Gosson . y : And he in whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss , a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George , my loving faithful friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend , My bloody deed , Oh Lord do me forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world and friends that fickle bee , All wives farewell , example take by me : Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape each foul and filthy vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death : Forgive my faults and follies I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . FINIS . London Printed for H. Gosson . 