The Tragedy of Doctor Lamb , The great supposed Conjurer , who was wounded to death by Sailors and other Lads , on Fryday the 14. of June , 1628. And died in the Poultry Counter , near Cheap-side , on the Saturday morning following . To the tune of Gallants come away . N Eighbors seize to moan , And leave your lamentation : For Doctor Lamb is gone , The Devil of our Nation , as it's known . A long time hath he lived , By cursed conjuration : And by enchantments thrived , While men of worthy fashion , have conived . The pranks that he hath played , ( By the help o'th Devil ) Are wondrous : but his trade And all his actions evil . at one time fade . The name of Doctor Lamb , Hath far and near been bruited , The Devil and his dame So cunning were not reputed , sure I am . But now he's gone the way Thats fit for such a liver ; To Hell I dare not say , Some judge so , howsoever : as well they may . For such a wicked wretch In England hath lived seldom , Nor never such a Which , For his skill from Hell came . that made him rich . I need name none on's feats , That are well known olready : But this my ditty treats , Of Doctor Lambe's Tragedy , my muse intreats , Your patience for a space , Whilst I make his narration , That lived void of grace , And did in desperation end his raze . The fourteenth day of June Which was upon a Friday , In the afternoon , We may count it a high day , for what was done . This man upon that day , As it is known for certain , Went to see a play At the house called Fortune : and going away , A crew of Seamen bold , That went to see the actium , Followed the Doctor old , And rose unto a faction , as it's told . Over the fields went he , And after him they followed His Devil could not free Him , for they whooped and holowd , till they see . The second part . To the same tune . H Im enter in a house , The Horshoe near to More-gate , Where he did carouse , But they to him still boar hate , the story shows . Assoon as he had supped , Which was with half a pig there . This multitude abrupt , Said were a Devil as big there , they interrupt . His coming by his death , Some Prentices did aid them , To take the Doctors breath , No fairemeans could persuade them , each one hath A resolution bent , To kill the English Devil , About which , at they went , Though I confess that evil was their intent . With cudgels and with stones , The followed him with fury , To bruise and break his bones : And just in the old Jury , all at once They beat him to the ground , And meaning to dispatch him , They gave him many a wound , The Devil could not watch him , to keep him found . They broke one of his arms , And yet they would not leave him , But did him further harms , And still they bade him save him - self by's charms . His scull in piteous wise , Was battered and bruised , They put out both his eyes , So cursely then they used him , who spies No rescue from his Spirits , That used to attend . So ill had been his merits , That few men to defend , showed their mights . Now briefly to conclude , to ' that Counter he was carried By the multitude , Where all that night he tarried , with blood imbrued . And then he did depart , In lamentable manner , Yet few are grieved at heart , To hear of his dishonour , and his smart . Thus Doctor Lamb is dead , That long hath wronged our Nation . His times accomplished , And all his conjuration , with him is fled . As his life was lude , Damnable and vicious : So he did conclude His life , and none propitious , pity showed . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for H. G . The Tragedy of Doctor Lamb , The great supposed Conjurer , who was wounded to death by Sailors and other Lads , on Fryday the 14. of June , 1628. And died in the Poultry Counter , near Cheap-side , on the Saturday morning following . To the tune of Gallants come away . N Eighbors seize to moan , And leave your lamentation : For Doctor Lamb is gone , The Devil of our Nation , as it's known . A long time hath he lived , By cursed conjuration : And by enchantments thrived , While men of worthy fashion , have conived . The pranks that he hath played , ( By the help o'th Devil ) Are wondrous : but his trade And all his actions evil . at one time fade . The name of Doctor Lamb , Hath far and near been bruited , The Devil and his dame So cunning were not reputed , sure I am . But now he's gone the way Thats fit for such a liver ; To Hell I dare not say , Some judge so , howsoever : as well they may . For such a wicked wretch In England hath lived seldom , Nor never such a Which , For his skill from Hell came . that made him rich . I need name none on's feats , That are well known olready : But this my ditty treats , Of Doctor Lambe's Tragedy , my muse intreats , Your patience for a space , Whilst I make his narration , That lived void of grace , And did in desperation end his raze . The fourteenth day of June Which was upon a Friday , In the afternoon , We may count it a high day , for what was done . This man upon that day , As it is known for certain , Went to see a play At the house called Fortune : and going away , A crew of Seamen bold , That went to see the actium , Followed the Doctor old , And rose unto a faction , as it's told . Over the fields went he , And after him they followed His Devil could not free Him , for they whooped and holowd , till they see . The second part . To the same tune . H Im enter in a house , The Horshoe near to More-gate , Where he did carouse , But they to him still boar hate , the story shows . Assoon as he had supped , Which was with half a pig there . This multitude abrupt , Said were a Devil as big there , they interrupt . His coming by his death , Some Prentices did aid them , To take the Doctors breath , No fairemeans could persuade them , each one hath A resolution bent , To kill the English Devil , About which , at they went , Though I confess that evil was their intent . With cudgels and with stones , The followed him with fury , To bruise and break his bones : And just in the old Jury , all at once They beat him to the ground , And meaning to dispatch him , They gave him many a wound , The Devil could not watch him , to keep him found . They broke one of his arms , And yet they would not leave him , But did him further harms , And still they bade him save him - self by's charms . His scull in piteous wise , Was battered and bruised , They put out both his eyes , So cursely then they used him , who spies No rescue from his Spirits , That used to attend . So ill had been his merits , That few men to defend , showed their mights . Now briefly to conclude , to ' that Counter he was carried By the multitude , Where all that night he tarried , with blood imbrued . And then he did depart , In lamentable manner , Yet few are grieved at heart , To hear of his dishonour , and his smart . Thus Doctor Lamb is dead , That long hath wronged our Nation . His times accomplished , And all his conjuration , with him is fled . As his life was lude , Damnable and vicious : So he did conclude His life , and none propitious , pity showed . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for H. G. 