Anne Wallens Lamentation , For the Murdering of her husband John Wallen a Turner in Cow-lane near Smith - field ; done by his own wife , on satterday the 22 of June . 1616. who was burned in Smithfield the first of July following . To the tune of Fortune my foe . G Reat God that sees all things that here are dONE Keeping thy Court with thy celestial Son ; Here her complaint that hath so soar offended , Forgive my fact before my life is ended . Ah me the shame unto all women kind , To harbour such a thought within my mind : That now hath made me to the world a scorn , And makes me curse the time that I was born . I would to God my mother's hapless womb , Before my birth had been my happy tomb : Or would to God when first I did take breath , That I had suffered any painful death . If ever died a true repentant soul , Then I am she , whose deeds are black and foul : Then take heed wives be to your husbands kind , And bear this lesson truly in your mind , Let not your tongues oversway true reasons bounds , Which in your rage your utmost rancour sounds : A woman that is wise should seldom speak , Unless discreetly she her words repeat O would that I had thought of this before , Which now to think on makes my heart full soar : Then should I not have done this deed so foul , The which hath stained my immortal soul . This not to die that thus does cause me grieve , I am more willing far to die than live ; But this for blood which mounts to the skies , And to the Lord revenge , revenge , it cries . My dearest husband did I wound to death , And was the cause h [ e ] lost his sweetest breath , But yet I trust his soul in heaven does dwell , And mine without Gods mercy sinks to hell . In London near to smithfield did I dwell , And amongst my neighbours was beloved well : Till that the Devil wrought me this same spite , That all their loves are turned to hatred quite . John Wallen was my loving husbands name , Which long hath lived in London in good fame . His trade a Turner , as was known full well , My name And Wallen , doleful tale to tell . Anne wallens Lamentation , Or the second part of the murder of one John Wallen a Turner in Cow-lane near Smithfield ; done by his own wife , on saterday the 22 of June 1616. who was burned in Smithfield the first of July following , To the tune of Fortune my foe . M Y husband having been about the town , And coming home , he on his bed lay down : To rest himself , which when I did espy , I fell to railing most outrageously . I called him Rogue , and slave , and all to nought , Repeating the worst language might be thought Thou drunken knave I said , and arrant sot , Thy mind is set on nothing but the pot . Sweet heart he said I pray thee hold thy tongue , And if thou dost not , I shall shall do thee wrong , At which , straight way I grew in worse rage , That he by no means could my tongue assuage . He then arose and struck me on the ear , I did at him begin to curse and swear : Then presently one of his tools I god , And on his body gave a wicked stroke among his entrails I this Chissell threw , Where as his Caul came out , for which I rue , What hast thou dONE , I prithee look quoth he , Thou hast thy wish , for thou hast killed me . When this was done the neighbours they ran in , And to his bed they straight conveyed him : Where he was dressed and lived till morn next day , Yet he forgave me and for me did pray . No sooner was his breath from body fled , But unto Newgate straight way they me led : Where I did lie until the Sizes came , Which was before I there three days had lain . Mother in law , forgive me I you pray , For I have made your only child away , Even all you had ; my self made husbandless , My life and all cause [ I ] did so transgress , He never did wrong to any in his life , But he too much was wronged by his wife ; Then wives be warned example take by me . Heavens grant no more that such a one may be . My judgement then it was pronounced plain , Because my dearest husband I had slain : In burning flames of fire I should fry , Receive my soul sweet Jesus now I die . TO : Platte . FINIS . Printed for Henry Gosson , and are to be sold at his shop on London bridge . Anne Wallens Lamentation , For the Murdering of her husband John Wallen a Turner in Cow-lane near Smith - field ; done by his own wife , on satterday the 22 of June . 1616. who was burned in Smithfield the first of July following . To the tune of Fortune my foe . G Reat God that sees all things that here are dONE Keeping thy Court with thy celestial Son ; Here her complaint that hath so soar offended , Forgive my fact before my life is ended . Ah me the shame unto all women kind , To harbour such a thought within my mind : That now hath made me to the world a scorn , And makes me curse the time that I was born . I would to God my mother's hapless womb , Before my birth had been my happy tomb : Or would to God when first I did take breath , That I had suffered any painful death . If ever died a true repentant soul , Then I am she , whose deeds are black and foul : Then take heed wives be to your husbands kind , And bear this lesson truly in your mind , Let not your tongues oversway true reasons bounds , Which in your rage your utmost rancour sounds : A woman that is wise should seldom speak , Unless discreetly she her words repeat O would that I had thought of this before , Which now to think on makes my heart full soar : Then should I not have done this deed so foul , The which hath stained my immortal soul . This not to die that thus does cause me grieve , I am more willing far to die than live ; But this for blood which mounts to the skies , And to the Lord revenge , revenge , it cries . My dearest husband did I wound to death , And was the cause h [ e ] lost his sweetest breath , But yet I trust his soul in heaven does dwell , And mine without Gods mercy sinks to hell . In London near to smithfield did I dwell , And amongst my neighbours was beloved well : Till that the Devil wrought me this same spite , That all their loves are turned to hatred quite . John Wallen was my loving husbands name , Which long hath lived in London in good fame . His trade a Turner , as was known full well , My name And Wallen , doleful tale to tell . Anne wallens Lamentation , Or the second part of the murder of one John Wallen a Turner in Cow-lane near Smithfield ; done by his own wife , on saterday the 22 of June 1616. who was burned in Smithfield the first of July following , To the tune of Fortune my foe . M Y husband having been about the town , And coming home , he on his bed lay down : To rest himself , which when I did espy , I fell to railing most outrageously . I called him Rogue , and slave , and all to nought , Repeating the worst language might be thought Thou drunken knave I said , and arrant sot , Thy mind is set on nothing but the pot . Sweet heart he said I pray thee hold thy tongue , And if thou dost not , I shall shall do thee wrong , At which , straight way I grew in worse rage , That he by no means could my tongue assuage . He then arose and struck me on the ear , I did at him begin to curse and swear : Then presently one of his tools I god , And on his body gave a wicked stroke among his entrails I this Chissell threw , Where as his Caul came out , for which I rue , What hast thou dONE , I prithee look quoth he , Thou hast thy wish , for thou hast killed me . When this was done the neighbours they ran in , And to his bed they straight conveyed him : Where he was dressed and lived till morn next day , Yet he forgave me and for me did pray . No sooner was his breath from body fled , But unto Newgate straight way they me led : Where I did lie until the Sizes came , Which was before I there three days had lain . Mother in law , forgive me I you pray , For I have made your only child away , Even all you had ; my self made husbandless , My life and all cause [ I ] did so transgress , He never did wrong to any in his life , But he too much was wronged by his wife ; Then wives be warned example take by me . Heavens grant no more that such a one may be . My judgement then it was pronounced plain , Because my dearest husband I had slain : In burning flames of fire I should fry , Receive my soul sweet Jesus now I die . TO : Platte . FINIS . Printed for Henry Gosson , and are to be sold at his shop on London bridge . 