TO : The Cheating Age : Or L E O N A R WORSER of Lincolnes journey to L O N WORSER O N to buy Wit . To a pleasant new tune . F Rom old famous Lincolne that's seated so high , Well mounted and furnished , with gold did I fly , To Londons famed City some wit for to buy , Which cost me so deer , makes me sighs , sob , and cry . For this is the cheating Age , For this is the cheating Age . Before I had entered Bishops wide gate , The Mouth m [ ad ] e and offer as if it would prate : But one scrapped acquaintance unto my hard fate , And made me consume there most part of my state . For this is the cheating Age , etc For after a neat comely French salutation , His tongue he did order in such a feat fashion , As I for to hear him amazed did stand , But he in the Tavern me pulled by the hand . For this is the cheating Age , etc When each one had tasted a cup two or three , What knowledge of Country and kindred had we , How bountiful Bacchus with us did agree , That never till this hour did each other see . For this is the cheating Age , etc He asked my affairs ? I made him reply : And told him my coming was wit for to buy : ( Quoth he ) I'll befriend you with that presently , He unlatcht a window that Westward did fly . For this is the cheating age , etc Then straight a strange whistle he to the street sends , Audaciously blown from his Thieves fingers ends , The Drawer runs up , says , there's some of your friends Hath called for some wine , and your coming attends . For this is the cheating Age , etc He cheered me , and told me , for them he had sent : Should teach me wit gratis ere homeward I went : But I never misdoubting , the Knavery he meant , Have swallowed a bait which hath made me repent . For this is the cheating Age , etc Up straight comes a Roarer with long shaggy locks , New broke out from Newgate , the Cage , or some Stocks : Or else from the Spittle , half cured of the Pox , But I'll careful be , lest he pepper my box . For this is the cheating Age , etc This tottered grim Rascal amazed me to hear , The terrible oaths which for nothing he sware , With that stamped his foot , and straightway did appear Such horrible faces that made me to fear . For this is the cheating age , etc Up marches two creatures in torn tottered cases , With long rusty Rapiers , swollen eyes , & amp ; patched faces As if that black Pluto from Limbo had sent , These horrid grim visions to make us repent . For this is the cheating age , etc The second part . To the same tune . M Y former Companion straight rise from the board , And courteous kind greeting to them did afford : Saying , pray sir bid welcome my friends of the sword , That gain credit by deeds sir , and not by their word : For this is the cheating age , etc First having saluted , we sat down again , And called for Tobacco , burned Claret amain : The Drawer officious to give us our bane , With cups plied us hard to put's out of our pain . For this is the cheating age , etc These chimney-nos'd-Rascals did make such a smother , I never saw the like since I came from my mother : Such cloud of blue vapour from their nostrils did come , Had like for to choked me , and fired the room . For this is the cheating age , etc Then up comes a Poet with a Rook at his tail , That feeds all the Winter of Toasts drowned in Ale , And in the Summer so sets to sale , Inventions of others before , his time stale . For this is the cheating age , etc Then straightway one calls to the barre-Boy for Dice , Which wrapped in a paper , was brought in a trice , Requesting to put off a little odd time , They would play for no more then a pottle of Wine . For this is the cheating age , etc I gave my consent , and with them did play , From wine for dry money , till next break of day , Where vexed at my losses , I set at one cast , Full forty good pounds to be rid of my last . For this is the cheating age , etc My money being set , the cast straight was thrown , And he like the devil cried , All is mine own : So every penny he from me did get , And bade me to Lincolne go back by my wit . For this is the cheating age , etc They having my money , did all steal away , And left me with nothing , five pound for to pay : But my cloak lined with velvet , & amp ; my rapier guilt gay , Did make clean the score , and all charges defray , For this is the cheating age , etc A Pox of all Cheaters , and grim roaring Boys : All rooking base Panders and nitty Decoys : And all that make practice to thrive by such fits , The three cornered nightcap once cocker their wits . For this is the cheating age , etc Now Leonard of Lincolne with grief bids adieu : My journey to London long time I shall rue : I never in my life met with villains so vild , To send a man home like the Prodigal Child . For this is the cheating age . For this is the cheating age . Printed at London by E.A. for John Wright . Finis . By William Cook . TO : The Cheating Age : Or L E O N A R WORSER of Lincolnes journey to L O N WORSER O N to buy Wit . To a pleasant new tune . F Rom old famous Lincolne that's seated so high , Well mounted and furnished , with gold did I fly , To Londons famed City some wit for to buy , Which cost me so deer , makes me sighs , sob , and cry . For this is the cheating Age , For this is the cheating Age . Before I had entered Bishops wide gate , The Mouth m [ ad ] e and offer as if it would prate : But one scrapped acquaintance unto my hard fate , And made me consume there most part of my state . For this is the cheating Age , etc For after a neat comely French salutation , His tongue he did order in such a feat fashion , As I for to hear him amazed did stand , But he in the Tavern me pulled by the hand . For this is the cheating Age , etc When each one had tasted a cup two or three , What knowledge of Country and kindred had we , How bountiful Bacchus with us did agree , That never till this hour did each other see . For this is the cheating Age , etc He asked my affairs ? I made him reply : And told him my coming was wit for to buy : ( Quoth he ) I'll befriend you with that presently , He unlatcht a window that Westward did fly . For this is the cheating age , etc Then straight a strange whistle he to the street sends , Audaciously blown from his Thieves fingers ends , The Drawer runs up , says , there's some of your friends Hath called for some wine , and your coming attends . For this is the cheating Age , etc He cheered me , and told me , for them he had sent : Should teach me wit gratis ere homeward I went : But I never misdoubting , the Knavery he meant , Have swallowed a bait which hath made me repent . For this is the cheating Age , etc Up straight comes a Roarer with long shaggy locks , New broke out from Newgate , the Cage , or some Stocks : Or else from the Spittle , half cured of the Pox , But I'll careful be , lest he pepper my box . For this is the cheating Age , etc This tottered grim Rascal amazed me to hear , The terrible oaths which for nothing he sware , With that stamped his foot , and straightway did appear Such horrible faces that made me to fear . For this is the cheating age , etc Up marches two creatures in torn tottered cases , With long rusty Rapiers , swollen eyes , & amp ; patched faces As if that black Pluto from Limbo had sent , These horrid grim visions to make us repent . For this is the cheating age , etc The second part . To the same tune . M Y former Companion straight rise from the board , And courteous kind greeting to them did afford : Saying , pray sir bid welcome my friends of the sword , That gain credit by deeds sir , and not by their word : For this is the cheating age , etc First having saluted , we sat down again , And called for Tobacco , burned Claret amain : The Drawer officious to give us our bane , With cups plied us hard to put's out of our pain . For this is the cheating age , etc These chimney-nos'd-Rascals did make such a smother , I never saw the like since I came from my mother : Such cloud of blue vapour from their nostrils did come , Had like for to choked me , and fired the room . For this is the cheating age , etc Then up comes a Poet with a Rook at his tail , That feeds all the Winter of Toasts drowned in Ale , And in the Summer so sets to sale , Inventions of others before , his time stale . For this is the cheating age , etc Then straightway one calls to the barre-Boy for Dice , Which wrapped in a paper , was brought in a trice , Requesting to put off a little odd time , They would play for no more then a pottle of Wine . For this is the cheating age , etc I gave my consent , and with them did play , From wine for dry money , till next break of day , Where vexed at my losses , I set at one cast , Full forty good pounds to be rid of my last . For this is the cheating age , etc My money being set , the cast straight was thrown , And he like the devil cried , All is mine own : So every penny he from me did get , And bade me to Lincolne go back by my wit . For this is the cheating age , etc They having my money , did all steal away , And left me with nothing , five pound for to pay : But my cloak lined with velvet , & amp ; my rapier guilt gay , Did make clean the score , and all charges defray , For this is the cheating age , etc A Pox of all Cheaters , and grim roaring Boys : All rooking base Panders and nitty Decoys : And all that make practice to thrive by such fits , The three cornered nightcap once cocker their wits . For this is the cheating age , etc Now Leonard of Lincolne with grief bids adieu : My journey to London long time I shall rue : I never in my life met with villains so vild , To send a man home like the Prodigal Child . For this is the cheating age . For this is the cheating age . Printed at London by E.A. for John Wright . Finis . By William Cook . 