The Golden Age : Or , And Age of plain-dealing To a pleasant new Court tune : Or , Whoop do me no harm good man . C Ome grant me , come lend me your listening ears : The golden Age now again plainly appears , Carouse away sorrow , and fling away fears , Leave your wife wealthy , Shee'l never shed tears : O this is a golden Age , O this is a Jovial Age . The bountiful Lawyer that never does wrong , To plead poor men's cases for price of a song , Who is by bright Angels still guided along , For twenty two shillings , Heel lend you his tongue , To plead in this golden Age , O this is a Jovial Age . The Ladies have put away painting and pride , The foolish French fashion they cannot abide , Without Mask or Caroches , they civilly ride , And to the poor people Their purses open wide : O this is a bountiful Age , O this is a liberal Age . Base dealing is banished , and women grown chaste , And by their own Husbands will scarce be embraced , And will not their times in idleness waste , For fear in their carriage They should be disgraced : O this is and honest Age , O this is a hopeful Age . Your Citizens bounty is grown now of late , To raise a poor Gallants decayed estate , He'll utter his wares at a reasonable rate , And unto all comers Keep open his gate : O this is a bountiful Age , O this is a liberal Age . The valorous Soldiers stout manhood is spread , With arms on his back , and Helmet on's head , With Pike and with Musket , to the field they tread , While the base Coward Lies sleeping in bed : O this is a valorous Age , O this is a warlike Age . The Courtier , his Taylor does pay with good will , The Taylor he thinketh , his payment is ill . But yet if he yearly , do cancel his Bill , His only desire is To deal with him still : O this is a venturing Age , O this is a trusting Age . The Usurer that lent out his money before , Hath burned his Bonds , and dares no more , Because his broad conscience oppresses him soar , The Devil still for him , Stood gaping at's door : O this is a mending Age , O this is and honest Age . The second Part. To the same Tune . TO He covetous aged , do soar bruise their brains , To make their young Gallants , sole Lords of their gains : But being once buried , full little remains , But idle consuming The fruit of their pains : O this is a wasting Age , O this is a spending Age . The prodigal spender consumeth his wit , With foolish devices , his humours to fit , At Ale and Tobacco , if he can fit , Like to a brave Gallant , Takes he it : O this is a smoking Age , O this is a fiery Age . Dull Drunkards fit drinking , and never give over , Till they have run freely on the Vintners score , Brass farthings in charity , fly to the poor , While many gold pieces Are spent on a W --- : O this is a dissembling Age , O this is a wanton Age . Old Robin Russet coat walks without Cloak , among our brave Gallants , with pictures in's poake , And learns the new fashion , to feed upon smoke , A food far more fitting , The Devil to choke : O this is a burning Age , O this is a smoking Age . Grim the black Collier , brings Coals to the town , In Sacks more then measure , yet spends he his crown , From the broad Pillory , to keep himself down . among the blue Beadles , To purchase renown , O this is and honest Age , O this is a mending Age . The Baker , the Brewer , do both mend their size , And with their plain dealing , base falsehood defies , Poor naked conscience , well clothed now lies , In their warm Bakehouse , Still held in great prize : O this is a changing Age , O this is a bettering Age . The Weaver , Miller and Tailor leave off for to steal , And with their workmasters more honestly deal , In stead of dry brown-bread , they make a good meal , Or else to the Tapsters We must here appeal : O this is and eating Age , O this is a drinking Age . All Tradesmen grow weary , of living by wrong . The Punk and the Cutpurse have thrived too long , The Hangman hath haltered these Rascals up strong : And so for one penny , I fell you my Song . O this is a tottering Age , O this is a hanging Age . The Golden Age : Or , And Age of plain-dealing To a pleasant new Court tune : Or , Whoop do me no harm good man . C Ome grant me , come lend me your listening ears : The golden Age now again plainly appears , Carouse away sorrow , and fling away fears , Leave your wife wealthy , Shee'l never shed tears : O this is a golden Age , O this is a Jovial Age . The bountiful Lawyer that never does wrong , To plead poor men's cases for price of a song , Who is by bright Angels still guided along , For twenty two shillings , Heel lend you his tongue , To plead in this golden Age , O this is a Jovial Age . The Ladies have put away painting and pride , The foolish French fashion they cannot abide , Without Mask or Caroches , they civilly ride , And to the poor people Their purses open wide : O this is a bountiful Age , O this is a liberal Age . Base dealing is banished , and women grown chaste , And by their own Husbands will scarce be embraced , And will not their times in idleness waste , For fear in their carriage They should be disgraced : O this is and honest Age , O this is a hopeful Age . Your Citizens bounty is grown now of late , To raise a poor Gallants decayed estate , He'll utter his wares at a reasonable rate , And unto all comers Keep open his gate : O this is a bountiful Age , O this is a liberal Age . The valorous Soldiers stout manhood is spread , With arms on his back , and Helmet on's head , With Pike and with Musket , to the field they tread , While the base Coward Lies sleeping in bed : O this is a valorous Age , O this is a warlike Age . The Courtier , his Taylor does pay with good will , The Taylor he thinketh , his payment is ill . But yet if he yearly , do cancel his Bill , His only desire is To deal with him still : O this is a venturing Age , O this is a trusting Age . The Usurer that lent out his money before , Hath burned his Bonds , and dares no more , Because his broad conscience oppresses him soar , The Devil still for him , Stood gaping at's door : O this is a mending Age , O this is and honest Age . The second Part. To the same Tune . TO He covetous aged , do soar bruise their brains , To make their young Gallants , sole Lords of their gains : But being once buried , full little remains , But idle consuming The fruit of their pains : O this is a wasting Age , O this is a spending Age . The prodigal spender consumeth his wit , With foolish devices , his humours to fit , At Ale and Tobacco , if he can fit , Like to a brave Gallant , Takes he it : O this is a smoking Age , O this is a fiery Age . Dull Drunkards fit drinking , and never give over , Till they have run freely on the Vintners score , Brass farthings in charity , fly to the poor , While many gold pieces Are spent on a W --- : O this is a dissembling Age , O this is a wanton Age . Old Robin Russet coat walks without Cloak , among our brave Gallants , with pictures in's poake , And learns the new fashion , to feed upon smoke , A food far more fitting , The Devil to choke : O this is a burning Age , O this is a smoking Age . Grim the black Collier , brings Coals to the town , In Sacks more then measure , yet spends he his crown , From the broad Pillory , to keep himself down . among the blue Beadles , To purchase renown , O this is and honest Age , O this is a mending Age . The Baker , the Brewer , do both mend their size , And with their plain dealing , base falsehood defies , Poor naked conscience , well clothed now lies , In their warm Bakehouse , Still held in great prize : O this is a changing Age , O this is a bettering Age . The Weaver , Miller and Tailor leave off for to steal , And with their workmasters more honestly deal , In stead of dry brown-bread , they make a good meal , Or else to the Tapsters We must here appeal : O this is and eating Age , O this is a drinking Age . All Tradesmen grow weary , of living by wrong . The Punk and the Cutpurse have thrived too long , The Hangman hath haltered these Rascals up strong : And so for one penny , I fell you my Song . O this is a tottering Age , O this is a hanging Age . 