TO : The Honest Age , Oh R There is honesty in all Trades ; As by this Ditty shall appear , Therefore attend and give good ear . To the tune of the Golden age . Y Ou Poets that write of the ages that's past , I pray stay your hand and write not too fast , I'll write of and age that for ever shall last , Plain dealing in Country and City is placed . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . Some people at these strange tidings will muse , And some will be joyful to hear such rare news , Then list to my Ditty for it briefly shows , No man I'll offend , then let no man refuse , To hear of this honest age , This is a plain dealing age . And first to go forw [ a ] rd as now I intend , I hear that the Broker his money will lend To any poor Neighbour his estate to amend , How well is that man that hath god such a friend . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Chandler that keeps coals and fuel to fell , Does top heap his measure and soundly it fill , For S [ open ] Starch , and Candle he wayeth so well , That of his plain dealing his neighbours can tell . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Taylor does scorn to deceive any friend , But unto plain dealing his mind he does bend , If once he were false he hath sworn to amend , No more cloth , nor silk , lace , to hell he will send . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Cooks in Pie-corner deceit will not use , In roasting meat three times their trade to abuse , They'll rather both custom and money refuse , Than use a man falsely if that they can choose . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Tapster is willing to give men content . To fell them full measure his humour is bent If a man score a dozen he will not repent , Nor take of you hate for the beer which is spent . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . I hear this of Bakers in sizing of bred , Though some think that conscience from Bakers is fled Since one through the Pillery put forth his head , No more of their company will be misled . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The second part . To the same tune : A Lso the Butcher so jovial and bold , is turned a plain dealer as you may behold , They'll put forth no [ tainted ] meat for to be sold To wrong any Neighbour for silver nor gold , Oh this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Miller that used too deep to take tole , Is now in great fear to endanger his soul , Of late Robin Conscience took him by the pole . And charged him to fly those offences so foul . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Brewer that made his beer very small , Hath changed his hand since Malt had a fallen , And by this means gained the love of them all , The rich and the poor , the great and the small . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . And the neat Shoemaker who merrily sings , Whose predecessors were heirs unto Kings , To such good perfection all matters he brings , That throughout all Europe his credit rings , Oh this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Weaver , the Glover , the Mason also , The Painter that makes such a gorgeous show , The Pewterer , the Plummer with other trades more Will use no false dealing where ever they go . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Cooper , the Blacksmith the ancient translater The Copper-nosed tinker with his wife that kind creature And that swaggering Sowgelder & amp ; Jack that great eater Hath sworn to his wife that he never will beatrice her Oh this is a quiet age , This is a plane dealing age . The Spendthrift that used in Taverns to roar , With wine and Tobacco and sometime a whore Say's now he'll live honest and do so no more . If he have spare money he'll give it to the poor , Oh this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . All this honest company which I have named , I trust will like of it I shall not be blamed , For this rare new Ditty in love I have framed , I know no plain dealing man will be ashamed . To hear of this honest age , This is a plain dealing age . Thus here you see honesty flies up and down , through City , through Country through Village & amp ; Town , among other virtues it merits renown , By this for example that it may be known , That this is the honest age , The best and honstest age . London , Printed for H. G. F I N I S L . P.T : The Honest Age , Oh R There is honesty in all Trades ; As by this Ditty shall appear , Therefore attend and give good ear . To the tune of the Golden age . Y Ou Poets that write of the ages that's past , I pray stay your hand and write not too fast , I'll write of and age that for ever shall last , Plain dealing in Country and City is placed . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . Some people at these strange tidings will muse , And some will be joyful to hear such rare news , Then list to my Ditty for it briefly shows , No man I'll offend , then let no man refuse , To hear of this honest age , This is a plain dealing age . And first to go forw [ a ] rd as now I intend , I hear that the Broker his money will lend To any poor Neighbour his estate to amend , How well is that man that hath god such a friend . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Chandler that keeps coals and fuel to fell , Does top heap his measure and soundly it fill , For S [ open ] Starch , and Candle he wayeth so well , That of his plain dealing his neighbours can tell . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Taylor does scorn to deceive any friend , But unto plain dealing his mind he does bend , If once he were false he hath sworn to amend , No more cloth , nor silk , lace , to hell he will send . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Cooks in Pie-corner deceit will not use , In roasting meat three times their trade to abuse , They'll rather both custom and money refuse , Than use a man falsely if that they can choose . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Tapster is willing to give men content . To fell them full measure his humour is bent If a man score a dozen he will not repent , Nor take of you hate for the beer which is spent . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . I hear this of Bakers in sizing of bred , Though some think that conscience from Bakers is fled Since one through the Pillery put forth his head , No more of their company will be misled . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The second part . To the same tune : A Lso the Butcher so jovial and bold , is turned a plain dealer as you may behold , They'll put forth no [ tainted ] meat for to be sold To wrong any Neighbour for silver nor gold , Oh this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Miller that used too deep to take tole , Is now in great fear to endanger his soul , Of late Robin Conscience took him by the pole . And charged him to fly those offences so foul . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Brewer that made his beer very small , Hath changed his hand since Malt had a fallen , And by this means gained the love of them all , The rich and the poor , the great and the small . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . And the neat Shoemaker who merrily sings , Whose predecessors were heirs unto Kings , To such good perfection all matters he brings , That throughout all Europe his credit rings , Oh this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Weaver , the Glover , the Mason also , The Painter that makes such a gorgeous show , The Pewterer , the Plummer with other trades more Will use no false dealing where ever they go . O this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . The Cooper , the Blacksmith the ancient translater The Copper-nosed tinker with his wife that kind creature And that swaggering Sowgelder & amp ; Jack that great eater Hath sworn to his wife that he never will beatrice her Oh this is a quiet age , This is a plane dealing age . The Spendthrift that used in Taverns to roar , With wine and Tobacco and sometime a whore Say's now he'll live honest and do so no more . If he have spare money he'll give it to the poor , Oh this is and honest age , This is a plain dealing age . All this honest company which I have named , I trust will like of it I shall not be blamed , For this rare new Ditty in love I have framed , I know no plain dealing man will be ashamed . To hear of this honest age , This is a plain dealing age . Thus here you see honesty flies up and down , through City , through Country through Village & amp ; Town , among other virtues it merits renown , By this for example that it may be known , That this is the honest age , The best and honstest age . London , Printed for H. G. F I N I S L.P. 