The deserved downfall of a corrupted conscience , degraded from all Authority and titles of Knighthood , censured in the high Court of Parliament , and executed at the Kings Bench bar upon the 20. day of June last , 1621. in the presence of foure great Peers of this Kingdom . To the tune of , The humming of the Drone . I TO was my chance of late in Westminster to be , Whereas in gallant state great numbers I did see , attending all in that great Hall , Where Justice is decreed , and people store came more and more , Which did amazement breed . At last , my longing eyes ( expecting some strange thing ) Bright Marshals men espies . with Harrold's of our King , awaiting there as dunes were , To have some actium done , where presently I herd a cry , [ Make ] e room , for now they come . [ ? ] es of London than [ ? ] to the Bar [ ? ] [ gent ] leman , [ ? ] [ w ] ith much care : [ ? ] back [ ? ] lack [ ? ] nfull cheer , [ ? ] ence [ ? ] It seemed he was a Knight , and Justice by degree , By wrongs in stead of right , great benefits gained he : by wrested Laws much wealth he draws From many a poor men state , for which it seemed , he thus was deemed A bribed Magistrate . Unto the Bar thus brought , foure Nobles of our Land , By wisdom fittest thought , did in Commission stand , to take away his titles gay Of Knighthood and renown , and that high grace of Justice place In open Court lay down . In that the King him gave these honours by his love , So likewise must they have and order of remove , be noble States and Magistrates Of great account and place : and thus was he from dignity , Made servile , mean and base . Before high Justice seat , the Harrold's there him set , And did at full repeat his knightly titles great , and him attired as place required In robes of Knighthood brave , with spurs and sword , as did accord What grace his Highness gave . All which was taken quite , by order and command , From this degraded Knight , by a Marshals servants hand , in open Court , before a sort Of Barons , Lords and Knights : to his disgrace , even in that place Where Justice pleads rights . The second Part. To the same Tune . H Is Sword of Knighthood , first was cut from off his side , And over his head there burst , that should have been his pride , and Knighthood's grace , in courtly place But he the same hath wronged , and now cast down the fair renown To his knighthood that belonged His spurs of Knighthood then , was from his heals there hewn , And by the Marshals men in high disgraces thrown into the Hall , among them all That stood with gazing eyes , to mark and see in what degree Degraded Knighthood lies . His sword , his spurs , his name , his titles , and his state , His knighthood and his fame , which he possessed so late thus all disgraced and clean defaced For ever claiming more , and changed him quite from being Knight And what he had before . This Censure by command , upon him then was laid , That no where in this Land , of him be justly said , or named to be in his degree A just and honest man , but one whose vain , for greedy gain , To shameless dealing ran . And so with vile reproach he as from thence sent back , And hurried in a Coach where did not wondering lack , of cries and shouts with mocking flouts , Until he came where he should lie again , and there remain , A prisoner close to be , No Knight nor Justice now , nor of no other style , Our Land will him allow , but that which makes me smile , for what I herd I am afeard To add unto his name , but let that rest within my breast And so be free from blame . But thus much I will say , true justice here was done , To him that many a day did to Much-evill run : much good thereby , assuredly Now comes unto our Land , in driving hence , this plague of pence , That stood with open hand , FINIS . Printed at London by G . E.The deserved downfall of a corrupted conscience , degraded from all Authority and titles of Knighthood , censured in the high Court of Parliament , and executed at the Kings Bench bar upon the 20. day of June last , 1621. in the presence of foure great Peers of this Kingdom . To the tune of , The humming of the Drone . I TO was my chance of late in Westminster to be , Whereas in gallant state great numbers I did see , attending all in that great Hall , Where Justice is decreed , and people store came more and more , Which did amazement breed . At last , my longing eyes ( expecting some strange thing ) Bright Marshals men espies . with Harrold's of our King , awaiting there as dunes were , To have some actium done , where presently I herd a cry , [ Make ] e room , for now they come . [ ? ] es of London than [ ? ] to the Bar [ ? ] [ gent ] leman , [ ? ] [ w ] ith much care : [ ? ] back [ ? ] lack [ ? ] nfull cheer , [ ? ] ence [ ? ] It seemed he was a Knight , and Justice by degree , By wrongs in stead of right , great benefits gained he : by wrested Laws much wealth he draws From many a poor men state , for which it seemed , he thus was deemed A bribed Magistrate . Unto the Bar thus brought , foure Nobles of our Land , By wisdom fittest thought , did in Commission stand , to take away his titles gay Of Knighthood and renown , and that high grace of Justice place In open Court lay down . In that the King him gave these honours by his love , So likewise must they have and order of remove , be noble States and Magistrates Of great account and place : and thus was he from dignity , Made servile , mean and base . Before high Justice seat , the Harrold's there him set , And did at full repeat his knightly titles great , and him attired as place required In robes of Knighthood brave , with spurs and sword , as did accord What grace his Highness gave . All which was taken quite , by order and command , From this degraded Knight , by a Marshals servants hand , in open Court , before a sort Of Barons , Lords and Knights : to his disgrace , even in that place Where Justice pleads rights . The second Part. To the same Tune . H Is Sword of Knighthood , first was cut from off his side , And over his head there burst , that should have been his pride , and Knighthood's grace , in courtly place But he the same hath wronged , and now cast down the fair renown To his knighthood that belonged His spurs of Knighthood then , was from his heals there hewn , And by the Marshals men in high disgraces thrown into the Hall , among them all That stood with gazing eyes , to mark and see in what degree Degraded Knighthood lies . His sword , his spurs , his name , his titles , and his state , His knighthood and his fame , which he possessed so late thus all disgraced and clean defaced For ever claiming more , and changed him quite from being Knight And what he had before . This Censure by command , upon him then was laid , That no where in this Land , of him be justly said , or named to be in his degree A just and honest man , but one whose vain , for greedy gain , To shameless dealing ran . And so with vile reproach he as from thence sent back , And hurried in a Coach where did not wondering lack , of cries and shouts with mocking flouts , Until he came where he should lie again , and there remain , A prisoner close to be , No Knight nor Justice now , nor of no other style , Our Land will him allow , but that which makes me smile , for what I herd I am afeard To add unto his name , but let that rest within my breast And so be free from blame . But thus much I will say , true justice here was done , To him that many a day did to Much-evill run : much good thereby , assuredly Now comes unto our Land , in driving hence , this plague of pence , That stood with open hand , FINIS . Printed at London by G.E. 