TO : Room for Company , here comes Good Fellows , To a pleasant new tune . R Oome for Company , here comes good fellows , Room for Company , in Bartholmew Fair . Cobblers and Broome-men , Tailors and Loom [ : ] men : Room for Company in Bartholmew Fair . Butchers and Tailors , Shipwrights and Sailors , Room for Company , well may they fare . Room for Company , here comes good fellows , Room for company , in Bartholmew fare . Tinkers and Braziers , Glassemen and Glasiers : Room for Company , in Bartholmew fare . Fiddlers and Pipers , Drums , Flags , & amp ; Fiffers , Room for company , well may they fare , Room for Company , here comes good fellows , etc Coopers , and Cutlers , Then Cooks and Butlers : Room for company in Bartholmew fare . Tanners and Curryers , Tawers and Furryers : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for Company , here comes good fellows , etc Paviers , Bricklayers Potters and Brickmakers , Room for company , etc Pinners and Pewterers , Plommars and Frewterers , Room for company , etc Room for Company , here comes good fellows . Room for company , in Bartholmew fair . Pointers and Hosiers , Salemen and Clothiers , Room for company , etc Horse coursers , Carriers : Blacksmithes and Farryers , Room for company , well may they fare . Room for Company , here comes , etc Girdlers , Imbrotherers , Spurryers and Soderers , Room for company , etc Carmen , Car [ tO ] - takers , And Basketmakers : Room for company , etc Room for company , here comes , etc Turners and Draymen , Horners and Laymen , Room for company , etc Chandlers and Salters , Millers and Maltsters , Room for company , etc Room for company , etc Belfounders , Clock-makers , Lockesmithes and Jackemakers , Room for company , etc Carpenters and Joiners , Clippers and Coiners : Room for company , etc Room for company , etc Fencers , Innkeepers , And Chimnisweepers : Room for company , etc Hatmakers , Saddlers , Shoemakers , Hagglers , Room for company , etc Room for Company , here comes good fellows , Room for company in Bartholmew fair . Brokers , Tobaccosellers , Tapsters in Beere-cellers : Room for company , etc Glovers and Cakebakers , With Cumfetmakers : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , here comes , etc , Collyers and Carvers , Barbers and Weavers , Room for company , etc Sergeants and Yeomen , Farmers and Ploughman : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , etc Drovers and Shepherds , Sowgelders , Neatherds : Room for company , etc Keepers and Cunny-catchers , Baylyes and Ratcatchers , Room for company , etc Room for company , etc Liars and Swearers , With water-bearers , Room for company , etc Jugglers and Jesters , And Borrowers of Testers : Room for company , etc Room for company , etc Sheeremen and Wolmen , Milpickers and Mealemen , Room for company , etc Scullers and Fishermen , Oastlers and Night-men : Room for company , etc The Second part of Room for Company . etc R Oome for company , here come good fellows , Room for company , in Bartholmew fair . Butchers and Poulters : Drunkards and Porters : Room for company , in Bartholmew fair , Clerks , I and Scriveners , Informers and Sumners : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , here comes good fellows , Room for company , in Bartholmew fair , Beareherds and Ropemakers , Ploughwrights and Haymakers : Room for company here comes , etc Canters , Quacksalvers , Mummers and Maunders , Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , etc Brewers and Bakers , And Tobacco takers , Room for company , etc Freemasons and Playsterers , Tailors and Labourers : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , here comes , etc , Belfounders , Felmongers , Bellousmenders , Woodmongers , Room for , etc Pumpmakers , Glassemakers , Chamberlains and Matmakers Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , here comes good Fellows , etc Collermakers , Needlemakers , Buttonmakers , Fiddlemakers : Room for company , etc Fletchers and Bowyers , Drawers and Sawyers : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for Company , here come good Fellows . Room for Company , in Bartholmew Fair . Cutpurses and Cheaters , And Bawdy-house-doore keepers : Room for company , etc Punks , I and Panders , And Cashiered Commanders : Room for Company , ill may they fare . Room for company , here comes good fellows , etc Alcumistes and Pedlars , Whores , Bawds , & amp ; Beggars : Room for company , in Bartholmew Fair : Ancients and Banners , Concluders , with Scanners , Room for company , in Bartholmew Fair . FINIS . Imprinted at London for E . W.T : Room for Company , here comes Good Fellows , To a pleasant new tune . R Oome for Company , here comes good fellows , Room for Company , in Bartholmew Fair . Cobblers and Broome-men , Tailors and Loom [ : ] men : Room for Company in Bartholmew Fair . Butchers and Tailors , Shipwrights and Sailors , Room for Company , well may they fare . Room for Company , here comes good fellows , Room for company , in Bartholmew fare . Tinkers and Braziers , Glassemen and Glasiers : Room for Company , in Bartholmew fare . Fiddlers and Pipers , Drums , Flags , & amp ; Fiffers , Room for company , well may they fare , Room for Company , here comes good fellows , etc Coopers , and Cutlers , Then Cooks and Butlers : Room for company in Bartholmew fare . Tanners and Curryers , Tawers and Furryers : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for Company , here comes good fellows , etc Paviers , Bricklayers Potters and Brickmakers , Room for company , etc Pinners and Pewterers , Plommars and Frewterers , Room for company , etc Room for Company , here comes good fellows . Room for company , in Bartholmew fair . Pointers and Hosiers , Salemen and Clothiers , Room for company , etc Horse coursers , Carriers : Blacksmithes and Farryers , Room for company , well may they fare . Room for Company , here comes , etc Girdlers , Imbrotherers , Spurryers and Soderers , Room for company , etc Carmen , Car [ tO ] - takers , And Basketmakers : Room for company , etc Room for company , here comes , etc Turners and Draymen , Horners and Laymen , Room for company , etc Chandlers and Salters , Millers and Maltsters , Room for company , etc Room for company , etc Belfounders , Clock-makers , Lockesmithes and Jackemakers , Room for company , etc Carpenters and Joiners , Clippers and Coiners : Room for company , etc Room for company , etc Fencers , Innkeepers , And Chimnisweepers : Room for company , etc Hatmakers , Saddlers , Shoemakers , Hagglers , Room for company , etc Room for Company , here comes good fellows , Room for company in Bartholmew fair . Brokers , Tobaccosellers , Tapsters in Beere-cellers : Room for company , etc Glovers and Cakebakers , With Cumfetmakers : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , here comes , etc , Collyers and Carvers , Barbers and Weavers , Room for company , etc Sergeants and Yeomen , Farmers and Ploughman : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , etc Drovers and Shepherds , Sowgelders , Neatherds : Room for company , etc Keepers and Cunny-catchers , Baylyes and Ratcatchers , Room for company , etc Room for company , etc Liars and Swearers , With water-bearers , Room for company , etc Jugglers and Jesters , And Borrowers of Testers : Room for company , etc Room for company , etc Sheeremen and Wolmen , Milpickers and Mealemen , Room for company , etc Scullers and Fishermen , Oastlers and Night-men : Room for company , etc The Second part of Room for Company . etc R Oome for company , here come good fellows , Room for company , in Bartholmew fair . Butchers and Poulters : Drunkards and Porters : Room for company , in Bartholmew fair , Clerks , I and Scriveners , Informers and Sumners : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , here comes good fellows , Room for company , in Bartholmew fair , Beareherds and Ropemakers , Ploughwrights and Haymakers : Room for company here comes , etc Canters , Quacksalvers , Mummers and Maunders , Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , etc Brewers and Bakers , And Tobacco takers , Room for company , etc Freemasons and Playsterers , Tailors and Labourers : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , here comes , etc , Belfounders , Felmongers , Bellousmenders , Woodmongers , Room for , etc Pumpmakers , Glassemakers , Chamberlains and Matmakers Room for company , well may they fare . Room for company , here comes good Fellows , etc Collermakers , Needlemakers , Buttonmakers , Fiddlemakers : Room for company , etc Fletchers and Bowyers , Drawers and Sawyers : Room for company , well may they fare . Room for Company , here come good Fellows . Room for Company , in Bartholmew Fair . Cutpurses and Cheaters , And Bawdy-house-doore keepers : Room for company , etc Punks , I and Panders , And Cashiered Commanders : Room for Company , ill may they fare . Room for company , here comes good fellows , etc Alcumistes and Pedlars , Whores , Bawds , & amp ; Beggars : Room for company , in Bartholmew Fair : Ancients and Banners , Concluders , with Scanners , Room for company , in Bartholmew Fair . FINIS . Imprinted at London for E.W. 