TO : A new merry Ballad I have here to show , Come pence a piece for them , I tell you but so . To and old tune , newly furbusht . You'd do so , would you not , Yes I warrant you . M Y Master's attend , unto me give ear : To speak like a friend , I mean not to spare , Great store of abuses , unto you I'll show , Good counsel refuse not , I tell you but so . Take heed of false Jesuites , and Masspriests so vile , That many poor people , oft do beguile : If you be ruled by them , I do well know : Your Souls in great danger , I tell you but so . The Pope they will tell you , can pardon your sins : All deeds meritorious , heaven it self wins : To Room on pilgrimage , if you will but go ; Home again like and Ass , I tell you but so . If Physic for your health , you mean to take : Or seek ease for your Teeth , when they do ache ; Unto Quacksalvers , nor Mountebanks go , Their medicines white dogs turd , I tell you but so . They have a rare medicine , to kill all the Fleas , Great skill also at parching of Peas , My Breech hath caught the cough of them Ide feign know , Whats good for the wholesome , I tell you but so . Beware of false whores enticing baits , To work your destruction , they'll use many sleights : Remember the Proverb , put fire to tow : You are in danger of burning I tell you but so . Their beauty is painting , their love it is as tart : Honey in the mouth , but Gall in the heart . If you keep them company , and with them go , You may ride with them to Tyburn , I tell you but so . You that for nothing will go to Law , Vexing your neighbours , for a stick or a straw , Because of your lawing , your purse will grow low : You'll prove your selves Coxe-combs I tell you but so . Forget not I say , that Emblem so rare , Which teaches you how , the Oyster to share , Thou must have one shell , the other thy foe , The fish is the Lawyers , I tell you but so . Regard not the hatred , of lewd idle people : Momus does look awry , like Grantham steeple : Reveal not they secrets , to friend , nor to foe , There's falsehood in friendship I tell you but so . In gaming and drinking , spend no time away , Youth cannot last long , age will decay . Hoist Sails up my friend , if wind do fairly blow ; Yet keep still in Compass , I tell you but so . In choice of a wife , choose modest and chaste , For beauty decayeth , when virtue does last , Unto Fortune-tellers , at no time go : For they will but cheat you , I tell you but so . The second part . To the same tune . TO Ake heed how you come , into the Usurers jaws : Their gripes are more fearful than Eagles claws . Keep hands friend from bonds and Suretyship to : The Beggar will catch you , I tell you but so . The Broker , his brother , is as bad or worse : If they but a little money disburse : They'll suck out your marrow your hearts blood also : Their dangerous Vipers , I tell you but so . The Devil their grandsire , taught them their trade : Since which time they have , great use of it made . The poors hearts to grate , so causing their woe , Amend else you'll rue it , I tell you but so . All you wicked livers , punks , Doxies and knaves , That bring many people , to untimely graves . The Carts they are ready , the Beadles also , You must tug like Horses , I tell you but so . You Pimps , Cheats & amp ; Panders & amp ; such roaring boys , That in Alehouse & amp ; Taverns do still make a noise , The Carters call for you , come away , so ho , You must tug lusty lively Lads , I tell you but so . You idle Neck - nine - holes , and Tom - Pigeon-holes , That spend your time idly , not regarding your Souls , The Carts they are ready , the Beadles also , They will lash you neatly , I tell you but so . You neat nimming Diverse of Cutpurse-Hall , To draw in the Cart fear you not at all , Newgate's prepared , there you must go , And after to Tyburne I tell you but so . A drunkard last night , in the Watch being taken , His Wenches had gulled him and himself forsaken . The Constable asked him , where he would go , His answer was always , I tell you but so . Unto the Counter , they sent him away , Where swearing and roaring , all night he lay . A hold he did love , to the hold he must go , Where he had cold comfort , I tell you but so . Here comes a Cavilleere , fough how he does smell , Of Musk , and of Civet , Cats turds would do well . Why is he perfumed ? O no [ w ] I do know , He has god Morbus Gallicus , I tell you but so . Five mincing Minikin , in Coach must be jogged , She hath god a great belly , at playing leapfrog , She says this a Timpany causeth her woe , This true this a live one , I tell you but so . Fine Susan at dancing , does take great delight . The Garland she wins , from all the Maids quite , She has a fault in the turn , but not on the toe , She turned late unto a man , he turned her also . The world at the first of nothing was made , Plain-dealing then , was the only Trade , But afterwards worse & amp ; worse it did still grow ; God mend it , or end it , I tell you but so . And thus to conclude , and end for to make , Colen does grumble , my stomach does ache : A packing penny , if you will bestow , I will go to Dinner , I tell you but so . FINIS . London , Printed for F . G.T : A new merry Ballad I have here to show , Come pence a piece for them , I tell you but so . To and old tune , newly furbusht . You'd do so , would you not , Yes I warrant you . M Y Master's attend , unto me give ear : To speak like a friend , I mean not to spare , Great store of abuses , unto you I'll show , Good counsel refuse not , I tell you but so . Take heed of false Jesuites , and Masspriests so vile , That many poor people , oft do beguile : If you be ruled by them , I do well know : Your Souls in great danger , I tell you but so . The Pope they will tell you , can pardon your sins : All deeds meritorious , heaven it self wins : To Room on pilgrimage , if you will but go ; Home again like and Ass , I tell you but so . If Physic for your health , you mean to take : Or seek ease for your Teeth , when they do ache ; Unto Quacksalvers , nor Mountebanks go , Their medicines white dogs turd , I tell you but so . They have a rare medicine , to kill all the Fleas , Great skill also at parching of Peas , My Breech hath caught the cough of them Ide feign know , Whats good for the wholesome , I tell you but so . Beware of false whores enticing baits , To work your destruction , they'll use many sleights : Remember the Proverb , put fire to tow : You are in danger of burning I tell you but so . Their beauty is painting , their love it is as tart : Honey in the mouth , but Gall in the heart . If you keep them company , and with them go , You may ride with them to Tyburn , I tell you but so . You that for nothing will go to Law , Vexing your neighbours , for a stick or a straw , Because of your lawing , your purse will grow low : You'll prove your selves Coxe-combs I tell you but so . Forget not I say , that Emblem so rare , Which teaches you how , the Oyster to share , Thou must have one shell , the other thy foe , The fish is the Lawyers , I tell you but so . Regard not the hatred , of lewd idle people : Momus does look awry , like Grantham steeple : Reveal not they secrets , to friend , nor to foe , There's falsehood in friendship I tell you but so . In gaming and drinking , spend no time away , Youth cannot last long , age will decay . Hoist Sails up my friend , if wind do fairly blow ; Yet keep still in Compass , I tell you but so . In choice of a wife , choose modest and chaste , For beauty decayeth , when virtue does last , Unto Fortune-tellers , at no time go : For they will but cheat you , I tell you but so . The second part . To the same tune . TO Ake heed how you come , into the Usurers jaws : Their gripes are more fearful than Eagles claws . Keep hands friend from bonds and Suretyship to : The Beggar will catch you , I tell you but so . The Broker , his brother , is as bad or worse : If they but a little money disburse : They'll suck out your marrow your hearts blood also : Their dangerous Vipers , I tell you but so . The Devil their grandsire , taught them their trade : Since which time they have , great use of it made . The poors hearts to grate , so causing their woe , Amend else you'll rue it , I tell you but so . All you wicked livers , punks , Doxies and knaves , That bring many people , to untimely graves . The Carts they are ready , the Beadles also , You must tug like Horses , I tell you but so . You Pimps , Cheats & amp ; Panders & amp ; such roaring boys , That in Alehouse & amp ; Taverns do still make a noise , The Carters call for you , come away , so ho , You must tug lusty lively Lads , I tell you but so . You idle Neck - nine - holes , and Tom - Pigeon-holes , That spend your time idly , not regarding your Souls , The Carts they are ready , the Beadles also , They will lash you neatly , I tell you but so . You neat nimming Diverse of Cutpurse-Hall , To draw in the Cart fear you not at all , Newgate's prepared , there you must go , And after to Tyburne I tell you but so . A drunkard last night , in the Watch being taken , His Wenches had gulled him and himself forsaken . The Constable asked him , where he would go , His answer was always , I tell you but so . Unto the Counter , they sent him away , Where swearing and roaring , all night he lay . A hold he did love , to the hold he must go , Where he had cold comfort , I tell you but so . Here comes a Cavilleere , fough how he does smell , Of Musk , and of Civet , Cats turds would do well . Why is he perfumed ? O no [ w ] I do know , He has god Morbus Gallicus , I tell you but so . Five mincing Minikin , in Coach must be jogged , She hath god a great belly , at playing leapfrog , She says this a Timpany causeth her woe , This true this a live one , I tell you but so . Fine Susan at dancing , does take great delight . The Garland she wins , from all the Maids quite , She has a fault in the turn , but not on the toe , She turned late unto a man , he turned her also . The world at the first of nothing was made , Plain-dealing then , was the only Trade , But afterwards worse & amp ; worse it did still grow ; God mend it , or end it , I tell you but so . And thus to conclude , and end for to make , Colen does grumble , my stomach does ache : A packing penny , if you will bestow , I will go to Dinner , I tell you but so . FINIS . London , Printed for F.G. 