TO : Times Alteration : Or The Old men rehearsal , what brave days he knew , A great while ago , when this Old Cap was new . To the tune of , I'll never be drunk again . W Hen this old Cap was new , this since two hundred year No malice then we knew , but all things plenty were : [ All ] friendship now decayed ( believe me , this is true ) Which was not in those days , When this old Cap was new . The Nobles of our Land , were much delighted then , To have at their command a crew of lusty men . Which by their Coats were known , of tawny , read , or blue , With Crests on their sleeves shown , When this old Cap was new . Now pride hath banished all , unto our Lands reproach , When he whose means is small , maintains both Horse and Coach , Instead of and hundred men , the Coach allows but two , This was not thought on then , When this old Cap was new . Good Hospitality , was cherish then of many , Now poor men starve and die , and are not helped by any : For Charity waxes cold , and love is found in few , This was not in time of old , When this old Cap was new . Where ever you traveled then , you might meet on the way , Brave Knights and Gentlemen , clad in their Country grey . That courteous would appear , and kindly welcome you . No Puritanes then were , When this old Cap was new . Our Ladies in those days , in civil habit went , Broad cloth was then worth praise , and gave the best content , French fashions then were scorned , found fangles then none knew , Then modesty women adorned , When this old cap was new . The second part To the same tune , A Man might then behold , at Christmas in each hall , Good fires to curb the cold , and meat for great ind small . The neighbours were friendly bidden , and all had welcome true : The poor from the Gates were not chidden When this old Cap was new . Black Jacks to every man were filled with wine and Beer , No Pewter pot nor kanne , in those days did appear . Good cheer in a Noblemanes house , was counted a seemly show : We wanted no brawn nor souse , When this old Cap was new . We took not such delight , in Cups of silver fine : None under a degree of a knight , in Plate drank beer or Wine . Now each Mechanical man , hath a Cupboard of Plate for a [ show ] : Which was a rare thing then When this old Cap was new Then Bribery was unborn , no Simony men did use , Christians did Usury scorn , deviseed among the Jewes . Then Lawyers took no Fees , at that time hardly knew , For man with man agrees , When this old Cap was new . No Captain then carrowst , nor spent poor Soldiers pay . They were not so abused , as they are at this day , Of seven days they made eight , to keep them from their endue , Poor Soldiers had their right , When this old Cap was new . Which made them forward still , to go all , though not pressed , And going with good will , their fortune's were the best , . Our English then in fight , did foreign foes subdue . And forced them all to flight , When this old Cap was new God save our gracious King , and send him long to live , Lord , mischief on them bring , that will not their alms give , But seek to rob the poor , of that which is their due This was not in time of yore , When this old Cap was new . TO : Times Alteration : Or The Old men rehearsal , what brave days he knew , A great while ago , when this Old Cap was new . To the tune of , I'll never be drunk again . W Hen this old Cap was new , this since two hundred year No malice then we knew , but all things plenty were : [ All ] friendship now decayed ( believe me , this is true ) Which was not in those days , When this old Cap was new . The Nobles of our Land , were much delighted then , To have at their command a crew of lusty men . Which by their Coats were known , of tawny , read , or blue , With Crests on their sleeves shown , When this old Cap was new . Now pride hath banished all , unto our Lands reproach , When he whose means is small , maintains both Horse and Coach , Instead of and hundred men , the Coach allows but two , This was not thought on then , When this old Cap was new . Good Hospitality , was cherish then of many , Now poor men starve and die , and are not helped by any : For Charity waxes cold , and love is found in few , This was not in time of old , When this old Cap was new . Where ever you traveled then , you might meet on the way , Brave Knights and Gentlemen , clad in their Country grey . That courteous would appear , and kindly welcome you . No Puritanes then were , When this old Cap was new . Our Ladies in those days , in civil habit went , Broad cloth was then worth praise , and gave the best content , French fashions then were scorned , found fangles then none knew , Then modesty women adorned , When this old cap was new . The second part To the same tune , A Man might then behold , at Christmas in each hall , Good fires to curb the cold , and meat for great ind small . The neighbours were friendly bidden , and all had welcome true : The poor from the Gates were not chidden When this old Cap was new . Black Jacks to every man were filled with wine and Beer , No Pewter pot nor kanne , in those days did appear . Good cheer in a Noblemanes house , was counted a seemly show : We wanted no brawn nor souse , When this old Cap was new . We took not such delight , in Cups of silver fine : None under a degree of a knight , in Plate drank beer or Wine . Now each Mechanical man , hath a Cupboard of Plate for a [ show ] : Which was a rare thing then When this old Cap was new Then Bribery was unborn , no Simony men did use , Christians did Usury scorn , deviseed among the Jewes . Then Lawyers took no Fees , at that time hardly knew , For man with man agrees , When this old Cap was new . No Captain then carrowst , nor spent poor Soldiers pay . They were not so abused , as they are at this day , Of seven days they made eight , to keep them from their endue , Poor Soldiers had their right , When this old Cap was new . Which made them forward still , to go all , though not pressed , And going with good will , their fortune's were the best , . Our English then in fight , did foreign foes subdue . And forced them all to flight , When this old Cap was new God save our gracious King , and send him long to live , Lord , mischief on them bring , that will not their alms give , But seek to rob the poor , of that which is their due This was not in time of yore , When this old Cap was new . 