TO : I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break : OR , John Jarrets wives counsel to her husband , to have care to his estate in this hard time , lest he turn Bankrupt . To the tune of the wiving Age . P Ray gentle John Jarret , give ear to my words , It is my true kindness this counsel affords , And every good husband to his wife accords : If your time you wast away at Alehouse boards , I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break , I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break . You see how the world to vices inclines . Which if you do follow , my soul thus divines , That you'll want the money which you wast in wines : Men being drunkards , are worse than base swines . I tell you John Jarret , etc They say , at the Talbot you run on the score , Beside , at S. Katherines you keep a brave whore . Where you on a night spent and Angel and more : If you use such dealings , 'twill make you full poor . I tell you , etc I hear y'have a wench , they call her Black Kate , Whose dwelling , they say , is near to Billingsgate , Beside , how you gave her a new gown of late : If you upon harlots do thus waste your state . I tell you , etc Beside , at S. Toolies , another men wife , They say that ( John Jarret ) you love as your life , Betwixt her and her husband you daily breed strife , Consuming your means , if you led still this life , I tell you , etc I hear say at Wapping that you keep another , And when you go there , you say this to your brother But you maintain her , with the old bawd her mother Such scurvy dealings I by no means can smother : I tell you , etc You rise in the morning before break of day , And unto the Alehouse you straight take your way , Where you in base manner at shuffleboard play , Until you have wasted your money away . I tell you , etc You have a Bastard at Brainford at nurse , That weekly does cost you two shillings thats worse : These things , sweet John Jarret , will empty your purse Beside , if you still persever this course , I tell you , etc You into ill company daily do room , While I and your children fit sighing at home , With brown bred and small drink I fit like a mome And sometime at midnight you drunk in do come I tell you , etc This is a hard world , and every thing's deer , Sweet gentle John Jarret , my counsel pray hear Before all be wasted , I pray have a care . For if you do hold this course one other year . I tell you . John Jarret , you'll break , I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break . The second part . To the same tune . Y Ou see how the Farmers do hoard up their grain , No ear will they lend to the poor men's complain , Although we should starve , these Curmugins will gain They never think on us , nor pity our pain , I fear me , John Jarret , you'll break , I fear me , John Jarret , you'll break . This is no world to borrow nor lend Nor ( if you consider it ) vainly to spend : Receive this my counsel ( good John ) as a friend , For if you pursue this vain course to the end , I tell you , etc When you in your shop should be plying your work , In some scurvy blind Alehouse you all day do lurk , More like than a Christian to some Jew or Turke : If thus you neglect your living and work , I tell you , etc Be ruled by my counsel , good husband , I pray , For will be your own I'm sure another day : Yet , if you please live full well you may , But if you persist in your drinking and play , I tell you , etc You know , you have wasted away a good Farm , And now we want firing for to keep us warm , Beside a good house for to shelter a storm : I give not this counsel unto you for harm : I tell you , etc Give over in time your scurvy base whores , For fear they should fill you with scars & amp ; with sores And labour beside to pay your old scores : If whores still you follow , with company that rores , I tell you , etc You see that the old year is almost quite spent The new one is coming , good John then repent Your wicked old follies , and with one consent , Your downsinking state with care to prevent . I tell you , etc Some that have enough , at Gods blessings repine , But whilst I live , that fault shall not be mine , Then to thy power , sweet John , with me join , And pray that God daily will guard thee and thine , I tell you , etc Be ruled by your wife , that does love you full deer , And all ill society see you forbear , And of these children I pray have a care , Begin a new course , I pray , with the year , Or else , sweet , etc There comes no goodness by following of quean [ s ] But riotous drinking , and wasting of means . Who trusts to such harlots , on wickedness leans , And may with the Prodigal feed upon beans . I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break , I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break . Fin [ is ] TO : I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break : OR , John Jarrets wives counsel to her husband , to have care to his estate in this hard time , lest he turn Bankrupt . To the tune of the wiving Age . P Ray gentle John Jarret , give ear to my words , It is my true kindness this counsel affords , And every good husband to his wife accords : If your time you wast away at Alehouse boards , I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break , I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break . You see how the world to vices inclines . Which if you do follow , my soul thus divines , That you'll want the money which you wast in wines : Men being drunkards , are worse than base swines . I tell you John Jarret , etc They say , at the Talbot you run on the score , Beside , at S. Katherines you keep a brave whore . Where you on a night spent and Angel and more : If you use such dealings , 'twill make you full poor . I tell you , etc I hear y'have a wench , they call her Black Kate , Whose dwelling , they say , is near to Billingsgate , Beside , how you gave her a new gown of late : If you upon harlots do thus waste your state . I tell you , etc Beside , at S. Toolies , another men wife , They say that ( John Jarret ) you love as your life , Betwixt her and her husband you daily breed strife , Consuming your means , if you led still this life , I tell you , etc I hear say at Wapping that you keep another , And when you go there , you say this to your brother But you maintain her , with the old bawd her mother Such scurvy dealings I by no means can smother : I tell you , etc You rise in the morning before break of day , And unto the Alehouse you straight take your way , Where you in base manner at shuffleboard play , Until you have wasted your money away . I tell you , etc You have a Bastard at Brainford at nurse , That weekly does cost you two shillings thats worse : These things , sweet John Jarret , will empty your purse Beside , if you still persever this course , I tell you , etc You into ill company daily do room , While I and your children fit sighing at home , With brown bred and small drink I fit like a mome And sometime at midnight you drunk in do come I tell you , etc This is a hard world , and every thing's deer , Sweet gentle John Jarret , my counsel pray hear Before all be wasted , I pray have a care . For if you do hold this course one other year . I tell you . John Jarret , you'll break , I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break . The second part . To the same tune . Y Ou see how the Farmers do hoard up their grain , No ear will they lend to the poor men's complain , Although we should starve , these Curmugins will gain They never think on us , nor pity our pain , I fear me , John Jarret , you'll break , I fear me , John Jarret , you'll break . This is no world to borrow nor lend Nor ( if you consider it ) vainly to spend : Receive this my counsel ( good John ) as a friend , For if you pursue this vain course to the end , I tell you , etc When you in your shop should be plying your work , In some scurvy blind Alehouse you all day do lurk , More like than a Christian to some Jew or Turke : If thus you neglect your living and work , I tell you , etc Be ruled by my counsel , good husband , I pray , For will be your own I'm sure another day : Yet , if you please live full well you may , But if you persist in your drinking and play , I tell you , etc You know , you have wasted away a good Farm , And now we want firing for to keep us warm , Beside a good house for to shelter a storm : I give not this counsel unto you for harm : I tell you , etc Give over in time your scurvy base whores , For fear they should fill you with scars & amp ; with sores And labour beside to pay your old scores : If whores still you follow , with company that rores , I tell you , etc You see that the old year is almost quite spent The new one is coming , good John then repent Your wicked old follies , and with one consent , Your downsinking state with care to prevent . I tell you , etc Some that have enough , at Gods blessings repine , But whilst I live , that fault shall not be mine , Then to thy power , sweet John , with me join , And pray that God daily will guard thee and thine , I tell you , etc Be ruled by your wife , that does love you full deer , And all ill society see you forbear , And of these children I pray have a care , Begin a new course , I pray , with the year , Or else , sweet , etc There comes no goodness by following of quean [ s ] But riotous drinking , and wasting of means . Who trusts to such harlots , on wickedness leans , And may with the Prodigal feed upon beans . I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break , I tell you , John Jarret , you'll break . Fin [ is ] 