TO : Pities Lamentation for the cruelty of this age . To the tune of Packentons pound . W Ell worth Predecessors , and Father's by name . That lived in England long times a go : Whose wondrous deeds were done for their fame , Which now her in England breeds our woe : Then Pity did rest , In every men breast : And Cruelty had no place To make his nest O happy England that lived in that state , When Pity was Porter at every men gate . But Pity ( alack ) this quite fled and gone , True friendship and love is banished away : Plain dealing now walks mourning alone , And no man relieves him by night nor by day : No Pity we see , In any degree , But fraud and deceit , And vild butchery . O happy England that lived in that state , When Pity was Porter at every men gate . O what is there now in this wicked age , That man will not do to accomplish the end , Which he hath intended in malice and rage , Though half that he hath in his mischief he spend Men wanting the grace , That love to embrace . Which in former times , Had eminent place : O happy England that lived in that state , When Pity was Porter at every men gate , Now grudging and envy once bred in the heart , Abates not by reason but still does increase , Till it bring into actium some Tragical part , By stabbing or poisoning and never will cease , Till he have his endue , That this is to true , Know some that the poison , Of envy do rue , O happy England that lived in that state , etc Now under a colour of kindness and love , In Purges and Potions such cunning is known , A man unsuspected a murder may prove . But God will have mischief and villainy shown , Though God for a time , May wink at a crime , Yet he can discover , When sins in the prime . Be happy O England to live in that state , Let Pity be Porter still at thy gate , Look in the Scriptures and there you may read , That Murder Adultery has never good end , I never read yet that well they did speed , As late hath be seen in this our good land . But God turn their hearts , That thus play such parts , For Poisons and Potions , Will turn to there smarts . O would that good Conscience did live in these days Then such kind of people would take better ways Poor ragged Conscience , where dost thou live ? Banished ( I doubt me ) from Town and from City : Poverty beggeth yet few men will give , And plenty is sparing the more is the pity , For gorgeous array . Now bears such sway That by her continuance , All things decay , Oh happy England that lived in that state , etc Good house keeping now is quite laid aside , No Butler stands ready to do and alms deed , And all to maintain found fashions of pride , A thousand good fellows do stand in great need , Most fair to the eye , Are houses built high , Only for pleasure Of them that pass by , But O happy England to live in that state , Let Pity be Porter still at thy gate . The Second Part of Pities Complaint . To the same tune . S Ince Coaches here flourished so much in in this Land , One servant or two now serves the turn : Forty good Geldings were else at command , As many good fellows uprising each morn : Then Tables were spread , With good beef and bred , But now this good order , From England is fled , be happy , Oh England , When Pity was Porter at every man gate . Whole Farms are consumed in pride for the back , In Shoestrings and Garters of silver or gold : Which well might suffice to feed them that lack . And keep the poor widow from hunger and cold . But hardness of heart , Hath so played his part , That Pity now weeps , To hear of our smart , O happy England that lived in that state , Let Pity be Porter still at thy gate . Yea happy was England before it did know , Such pride in apparel as many do wear : In warm Russet clothing our Gallants did go , And Kertles were garments for Ladies most fair : Then malice and spite , Did live with no wight , True love and friendship , Was each men delight . O happy England , etc A bushel of wheat for sixe pence was sold , And Over for a Mark fat from the stall : A score of fat Lambs for and Angel was sold , With heart and good will in payment with all : And then at each door , Sat feasting the poor : The Like to that time Will never come more . O happy England , etc When such a good world was here in this Land , Neighbour with neighbour did fallen at no strife , Then needless were bonds and wills of their hands , Men's words were not broken but kept as their life . But now in these days , All credit decays , Truth is not used , We see any ways . O happy England , etc The time is quite changed we find it by proof , Poor Conscience a begging now walks in the field : And Charity blinded , keeps her aloof , And cannot find where her house for to built , No Pity we see , In any degree , But fraud and deceit , A vile usury . O happy England , If this happy world would once again more , Return to her former virtue and grace : All men with bounty would part with there store , To built by poor Pity a perpetual place : So Pity will rest , In every men breast : And Cruelty find no place , To make his nest . Be happy Oh England to live in that state , When Pity was Porter at every men gate . FINIS . Printed at London for I . W . TO : Pities Lamentation for the cruelty of this age . To the tune of Packentons pound . W Ell worth Predecessors , and Father's by name . That lived in England long times a go : Whose wondrous deeds were done for their fame , Which now her in England breeds our woe : Then Pity did rest , In every men breast : And Cruelty had no place To make his nest O happy England that lived in that state , When Pity was Porter at every men gate . But Pity ( alack ) this quite fled and gone , True friendship and love is banished away : Plain dealing now walks mourning alone , And no man relieves him by night nor by day : No Pity we see , In any degree , But fraud and deceit , And vild butchery . O happy England that lived in that state , When Pity was Porter at every men gate . O what is there now in this wicked age , That man will not do to accomplish the end , Which he hath intended in malice and rage , Though half that he hath in his mischief he spend Men wanting the grace , That love to embrace . Which in former times , Had eminent place : O happy England that lived in that state , When Pity was Porter at every men gate , Now grudging and envy once bred in the heart , Abates not by reason but still does increase , Till it bring into actium some Tragical part , By stabbing or poisoning and never will cease , Till he have his endue , That this is to true , Know some that the poison , Of envy do rue , O happy England that lived in that state , etc Now under a colour of kindness and love , In Purges and Potions such cunning is known , A man unsuspected a murder may prove . But God will have mischief and villainy shown , Though God for a time , May wink at a crime , Yet he can discover , When sins in the prime . Be happy O England to live in that state , Let Pity be Porter still at thy gate , Look in the Scriptures and there you may read , That Murder Adultery has never good end , I never read yet that well they did speed , As late hath be seen in this our good land . But God turn their hearts , That thus play such parts , For Poisons and Potions , Will turn to there smarts . O would that good Conscience did live in these days Then such kind of people would take better ways Poor ragged Conscience , where dost thou live ? Banished ( I doubt me ) from Town and from City : Poverty beggeth yet few men will give , And plenty is sparing the more is the pity , For gorgeous array . Now bears such sway That by her continuance , All things decay , Oh happy England that lived in that state , etc Good house keeping now is quite laid aside , No Butler stands ready to do and alms deed , And all to maintain found fashions of pride , A thousand good fellows do stand in great need , Most fair to the eye , Are houses built high , Only for pleasure Of them that pass by , But O happy England to live in that state , Let Pity be Porter still at thy gate . The Second Part of Pities Complaint . To the same tune . S Ince Coaches here flourished so much in in this Land , One servant or two now serves the turn : Forty good Geldings were else at command , As many good fellows uprising each morn : Then Tables were spread , With good beef and bred , But now this good order , From England is fled , be happy , Oh England , When Pity was Porter at every man gate . Whole Farms are consumed in pride for the back , In Shoestrings and Garters of silver or gold : Which well might suffice to feed them that lack . And keep the poor widow from hunger and cold . But hardness of heart , Hath so played his part , That Pity now weeps , To hear of our smart , O happy England that lived in that state , Let Pity be Porter still at thy gate . Yea happy was England before it did know , Such pride in apparel as many do wear : In warm Russet clothing our Gallants did go , And Kertles were garments for Ladies most fair : Then malice and spite , Did live with no wight , True love and friendship , Was each men delight . O happy England , etc A bushel of wheat for sixe pence was sold , And Over for a Mark fat from the stall : A score of fat Lambs for and Angel was sold , With heart and good will in payment with all : And then at each door , Sat feasting the poor : The Like to that time Will never come more . O happy England , etc When such a good world was here in this Land , Neighbour with neighbour did fallen at no strife , Then needless were bonds and wills of their hands , Men's words were not broken but kept as their life . But now in these days , All credit decays , Truth is not used , We see any ways . O happy England , etc The time is quite changed we find it by proof , Poor Conscience a begging now walks in the field : And Charity blinded , keeps her aloof , And cannot find where her house for to built , No Pity we see , In any degree , But fraud and deceit , A vile usury . O happy England , If this happy world would once again more , Return to her former virtue and grace : All men with bounty would part with there store , To built by poor Pity a perpetual place : So Pity will rest , In every men breast : And Cruelty find no place , To make his nest . Be happy Oh England to live in that state , When Pity was Porter at every men gate . FINIS . Printed at London for I. W. 