Londons Ordinary , Oh R Every Man in his humour . To a pleasant new tune . TO Hrough the Royal Exchange as I walked , where Gallants in Satin did shine : At midst of the day , they parted away at several places to dine . The Gentry went to the Kings head , the Nobles into the Crown : The Knights went to the golden Fleece , and the Plowman to the Clown . The Clergy will dine at the Miter , the Vitners at three Tons : The Usurers to the Devil will go , and the Friars unto the Nuns . The Ladies will dine at the Feathers , the Globe no Captain will scorn : The Huntsmant will go to the Greyhound below , and some Townsmen to the Horn . The Plummer will dine at the Fountain , the Cooks at the holy Lamb : The [ Drunk ] ards at noon , to the Man in the Moon , [ and thee ] Cuckolds to the Ram . The Rorers will dine at the Lion , the Watermen at the old Swan : And Bawds will to the Negro go , and Whores to the naked Man . The Keepers will to the white Heart , the Mariners unto the Ship : The Beggars they must take their way , to the Eggshell and the Whip . The Farriers will to the Horse , the Blackesmiths unto the Lock : The Butchers unto the Bull will go , and the Carmen to Bridewell Dock . The Fishmongers unto the Dolphin , the Bakers to the Cheat Loaf : The Turners unto the Ladle will go , where they may merrily quaff . The Tailors will dine at the Sheeres , the Shoemakers wiil to the Boot : The Welshmen they will take their way and dine at the signa of the Goat . The second part , to the same tune . TO He Hosiers will dine at the Leg , the Drapers at the sign of the Brush : The Fletchers to Robin-hood will go , and the Spendthrift to Beggars Bush. The Pewterers to the quart Pot , the [ C ] oopers dine at the Hoop : The Cobblers to the Last will go , and the Bargemen to the Scoop . The Carpenters will dine to the Axe , the Colliers will dine at the Sack , Your Fruiterer he to the Cherry Tree , good fellows no liquour will lack . The Goldsmiths to the three Cups , for money they hold it as dross : Your Puritan to the Pewter Can , and your Papists to the Cross . The Weavers will dine at the Shuttle , the Glovers will unto the Glove : The Maidens all to the Maidenhead , and true Lovers unto the Dove . The Saddlers will dine at the Saddle , the Painters will to the green Dragon : The Dutchman will go to the sign of the Froe , where each man ma dryinke his Flagon . The Chandlers will dine at the Scales , the Salters at the sign of the Bag : The Porters take pain at the Labour in vain , and the Horse-courier to the whi [ tO ] e Nag . Thus every man in his humour , from North unto the South : But he that hath money in his purse , may dine at the sign of the Mouth . The Swaggerers will dine at the Fencers , but those that have lost their wits : With Bedlam Tom , let there be their home , and the Drum the Drummers best fits . The Cheter will dine at the Chequer , the Pick-pokets in a blind Alehouse : Till taken and tried up Holborne they ride , and make their ends at the Gallows . Printed at London for John Wright dwelling near the Old Baily . Londons Ordinary , Oh R Every Man in his humour . To a pleasant new tune . TO Hrough the Royal Exchange as I walked , where Gallants in Satin did shine : At midst of the day , they parted away at several places to dine . The Gentry went to the Kings head , the Nobles into the Crown : The Knights went to the golden Fleece , and the Plowman to the Clown . The Clergy will dine at the Miter , the Vitners at three Tons : The Usurers to the Devil will go , and the Friars unto the Nuns . The Ladies will dine at the Feathers , the Globe no Captain will scorn : The Huntsmant will go to the Greyhound below , and some Townsmen to the Horn . The Plummer will dine at the Fountain , the Cooks at the holy Lamb : The [ Drunk ] ards at noon , to the Man in the Moon , [ and thee ] Cuckolds to the Ram . The Rorers will dine at the Lion , the Watermen at the old Swan : And Bawds will to the Negro go , and Whores to the naked Man . The Keepers will to the white Heart , the Mariners unto the Ship : The Beggars they must take their way , to the Eggshell and the Whip . The Farriers will to the Horse , the Blackesmiths unto the Lock : The Butchers unto the Bull will go , and the Carmen to Bridewell Dock . The Fishmongers unto the Dolphin , the Bakers to the Cheat Loaf : The Turners unto the Ladle will go , where they may merrily quaff . The Tailors will dine at the Sheeres , the Shoemakers wiil to the Boot : The Welshmen they will take their way and dine at the signa of the Goat . The second part , to the same tune . TO He Hosiers will dine at the Leg , the Drapers at the sign of the Brush : The Fletchers to Robin-hood will go , and the Spendthrift to Beggars Bush. The Pewterers to the quart Pot , the [ C ] oopers dine at the Hoop : The Cobblers to the Last will go , and the Bargemen to the Scoop . The Carpenters will dine to the Axe , the Colliers will dine at the Sack , Your Fruiterer he to the Cherry Tree , good fellows no liquour will lack . The Goldsmiths to the three Cups , for money they hold it as dross : Your Puritan to the Pewter Can , and your Papists to the Cross . The Weavers will dine at the Shuttle , the Glovers will unto the Glove : The Maidens all to the Maidenhead , and true Lovers unto the Dove . The Saddlers will dine at the Saddle , the Painters will to the green Dragon : The Dutchman will go to the sign of the Froe , where each man ma dryinke his Flagon . The Chandlers will dine at the Scales , the Salters at the sign of the Bag : The Porters take pain at the Labour in vain , and the Horse-courier to the whi [ tO ] e Nag . Thus every man in his humour , from North unto the South : But he that hath money in his purse , may dine at the sign of the Mouth . The Swaggerers will dine at the Fencers , but those that have lost their wits : With Bedlam Tom , let there be their home , and the Drum the Drummers best fits . The Cheter will dine at the Chequer , the Pick-pokets in a blind Alehouse : Till taken and tried up Holborne they ride , and make their ends at the Gallows . Printed at London for John Wright dwelling near the Old Baily . 