TO : I would you never had said so , To the tune of upon the Meadow brow . TO Woe loving Friends once meeting by chance upon the way : In kindness gave each other , the good time of the day : And the one desired the other , along with him to go : The other denied , and to him said , I would you had not said so . Being demanded why , that he that wish desired ? Why sir quoth he my reason is , because I am almost tired : And are you tired quoth he , this more then I did know ? Then truly since with all my heart , I would you had not said so . But seeing you are weary , now let us take repose : Here let us fit and rest us , and to you I'll disclose : Some Vices in the Country , among us daily grow : If yowl attend good Sir quoth he , I would you had not said so . For truly in the City , from whence I came are more : More hateful vices , name you one , I'll name you half a score : Is't possible ( quoth he ) the City so should flow ? With Vice in such abundance , I would you had not said so . But now sir for the Country , because I must begin : I'll first speak of the Mizer , that lump , that heap of sin : This urchin is a Farmer , whom many men do know : He scrapes and hoards the Devil and all I would you had not said so . Though Barns and Racks be full , though Chists be cramed with Coin : And though he nothing wants , yet must he needs purloin : His Tenants Rends heel raise , his Neighbours heel undo : By removing of their Land marks , I would you had not said so . And if a Neighbour hath , near him a pee [ ce of ? ] ground : Heel never leave by right nor wrong , till it to him be bound : If true means cannot get it , he then to Law will go : And wrong a poor man for his own , I would you had not said so . The Second part . To the same Tune . TO Here are some in our Parish , that too much are to blame : For in a year scarce once , they to the Church ere came : But does the Alehouse haunt , and so themselves undo : Oh Lord sure quoth the other again , I would you had not said so . O sir I could reveal quoth he , of truths a number more : Which shame makes me conceal , but yet I grieve therefore : For many do offend , which hear I may not show : Truly replied the other then , I would you had not said so . Then hear me ( quoth . ) the Townsman for fearless I'll begin : Apparently to tell you , now of the Cities sin : There's all the acts of Rogarie , or ought that longs thereto : Before tend it quoth the Countryman , I would you had not said so . The Courtiers proud , and Lawyers , does knavish cunning use : The Trades man by his buying , does many men abuse : All the Informers are turned knaves , they little good doe do : The Sergeants cruel , sir quoth he , I would you had not said so . The Broker in the Hundred takes : good man but Foure score : His Conscience is so upright , he will not ask for more : The Bawd she will turn honest , when whores she does forgo : That will be never , sir quoth he , I would you had not said so . The Courtesans shall vertious prove , when all their faults are fled : And Punks shall surely honest live , when Panders all are dead : The Tailor he [ sha ] ll steal no more , when he hath no work to do : He cannot then the other said , I would you had not said so . The Brother gainst his brother , and Father gainst the Son : The son against the Father goes , till they are all undone : And Wives against their Husbands , do make to much a do : Sir this quoth th'other grieves me most , I would you had not said so . Most men so impious are , that they devise all evils : And in their dealings worse prove , then do incarnate Devils , The City Wives fantastic prove , yet make a modest show : Their wiles theyle have the other said , I would you had not said so . Their Scycephanting Parrazites , their Mistress humours smooth , And eke the cheating base Decoy , poor country men do sooth : Till by their Cheating tricks , they quite do them undo : Quoth he this case is pitiful , I would you had not said so . Thus have you herd what news , is now within the City : How all do practise villainy , without remorse or pity : Let us now having rested , upon our Journey go , Where too , though loath he greed , yet said I would you had not said so . Trust me it is great pity , to hear this bad report : Of Country , and of City , how all men do extort : I would they would reform , and think whats best to do : That Countryman nor Citizen , Might never gainst them say so . FINIS . Printed at London for TO . L.T : I would you never had said so , To the tune of upon the Meadow brow . TO Woe loving Friends once meeting by chance upon the way : In kindness gave each other , the good time of the day : And the one desired the other , along with him to go : The other denied , and to him said , I would you had not said so . Being demanded why , that he that wish desired ? Why sir quoth he my reason is , because I am almost tired : And are you tired quoth he , this more then I did know ? Then truly since with all my heart , I would you had not said so . But seeing you are weary , now let us take repose : Here let us fit and rest us , and to you I'll disclose : Some Vices in the Country , among us daily grow : If yowl attend good Sir quoth he , I would you had not said so . For truly in the City , from whence I came are more : More hateful vices , name you one , I'll name you half a score : Is't possible ( quoth he ) the City so should flow ? With Vice in such abundance , I would you had not said so . But now sir for the Country , because I must begin : I'll first speak of the Mizer , that lump , that heap of sin : This urchin is a Farmer , whom many men do know : He scrapes and hoards the Devil and all I would you had not said so . Though Barns and Racks be full , though Chists be cramed with Coin : And though he nothing wants , yet must he needs purloin : His Tenants Rends heel raise , his Neighbours heel undo : By removing of their Land marks , I would you had not said so . And if a Neighbour hath , near him a pee [ ce of ? ] ground : Heel never leave by right nor wrong , till it to him be bound : If true means cannot get it , he then to Law will go : And wrong a poor man for his own , I would you had not said so . The Second part . To the same Tune . TO Here are some in our Parish , that too much are to blame : For in a year scarce once , they to the Church ere came : But does the Alehouse haunt , and so themselves undo : Oh Lord sure quoth the other again , I would you had not said so . O sir I could reveal quoth he , of truths a number more : Which shame makes me conceal , but yet I grieve therefore : For many do offend , which hear I may not show : Truly replied the other then , I would you had not said so . Then hear me ( quoth . ) the Townsman for fearless I'll begin : Apparently to tell you , now of the Cities sin : There's all the acts of Rogarie , or ought that longs thereto : Before tend it quoth the Countryman , I would you had not said so . The Courtiers proud , and Lawyers , does knavish cunning use : The Trades man by his buying , does many men abuse : All the Informers are turned knaves , they little good doe do : The Sergeants cruel , sir quoth he , I would you had not said so . The Broker in the Hundred takes : good man but Foure score : His Conscience is so upright , he will not ask for more : The Bawd she will turn honest , when whores she does forgo : That will be never , sir quoth he , I would you had not said so . The Courtesans shall vertious prove , when all their faults are fled : And Punks shall surely honest live , when Panders all are dead : The Tailor he [ sha ] ll steal no more , when he hath no work to do : He cannot then the other said , I would you had not said so . The Brother gainst his brother , and Father gainst the Son : The son against the Father goes , till they are all undone : And Wives against their Husbands , do make to much a do : Sir this quoth th'other grieves me most , I would you had not said so . Most men so impious are , that they devise all evils : And in their dealings worse prove , then do incarnate Devils , The City Wives fantastic prove , yet make a modest show : Their wiles theyle have the other said , I would you had not said so . Their Scycephanting Parrazites , their Mistress humours smooth , And eke the cheating base Decoy , poor country men do sooth : Till by their Cheating tricks , they quite do them undo : Quoth he this case is pitiful , I would you had not said so . Thus have you herd what news , is now within the City : How all do practise villainy , without remorse or pity : Let us now having rested , upon our Journey go , Where too , though loath he greed , yet said I would you had not said so . Trust me it is great pity , to hear this bad report : Of Country , and of City , how all men do extort : I would they would reform , and think whats best to do : That Countryman nor Citizen , Might never gainst them say so . FINIS . Printed at London for T.L. 