[ Dice , wine and women . ] OR The unfortunate Gallant gulled at London . To the tune of Shall I wrestle in despair . F Rom Cornwal mount to London fair , to try all fashions did I repair , Soon came I to a Cornish Chuff , Left by my father rich enough , Yet riches could not me content , Until at London all was spent . The causes why I am so poor , Are Dice , Strong-waters , and a whore . First did I come to Charing-crosse , Where was such smoking none could pass , Brave Gallants there my sighed opposes , Fumed hospitality from their noses : To try those fashions that were there , Five angels cost that day was deer . The causes , etc From thence unto the new Exchange My purse and I did freely range , Whereas a new beginner sold Strong waters new , and Tobacco old : With him at Doublets did I play , Till five more Angels flew away . The causes , etc Then thinking London for to see , within the Strand I chanced to spy Two lovely lasses fair and bright , whom I do guess were painted white : These did I court , and they gave leave , But they at last did me deceive . The causes , etc At Temple-barre I chanced to spy Brave guilded glasses that pleased mine eye , What was , I asked the next I did meet , Who told me it was strong waters sweet All the variety did I taste : That day I full five pound did waste . The causes , etc From thence next day to Fleet-street brave , where I espied many a knave : One among the rest I spied than , who swore he was my country man : With him to Tavern did I go : But dice & amp ; cards there wrought my woe . The causes , etc Then the old Baily did I trace , where I did meet full face to face A Cheater pleading poverty , who asked , if a gold ring I would buy : Five silver tagges , which I poor ass , Bought that for good which proved but brass . The causes , etc Then thinking for to see a play . I met a Pander by the way : Who thinking I had money store , Brought me to Turnboll to a whore : Ere from that house I rid could be , It cost ten pound my setting free . The causes , etc Most of my money being spent , To S. Johns street to the Bull I went , Where I the roaring Rimer saw , And to my face was made a daw : And pressing forth among the folk , I lost my purse , my hat and cloak . The causes , etc The Second Part. TO Hen into Smithfield did I high , where I Strong-waters did espy : From that same shop I could not part : For I loved strong waters with my heart : Going to pay , my purse was gone , For which groat shot my shirt's in pawn . The causes , etc Then to Long-lane I went poor man , And so from thence to Barbican : Money was spent , and my credit scant , And nobody there would relieve my want , Then did I trace to Whitecrosse street , wondered at by all I meet . The causes , etc Wandering along this luckless day , In a noted house by chance I lay : Where as a wench both fair and fine , Loved me in hope I had store of coin : But when she perceived me poor , She stripped , and beatrice me out of door . The causes , etc Thus all along in piteous plighted walked I along till twelve at night : Each one did bar their churlish door , None would regard me being poor : The watch being set , and I in sighed , was sent to new Bridewell that night . The causes , etc There was I set to work full hard : From meae and drink & amp ; pleasure hard : I could have no strong-waters there : Nor scarce a draught of good small beer , I wrought at mill by my fatal sisters , Till both my hands were full of blisters . The causes , etc There lay I long in grief and woe , For by no means I thence could go : No friend would speak in this my plighted , Till I was there a full fortnight : At length a friend I chanced to see , who wrought the means to set me free . The causes , etc Now to my country do I high : London and fashions I defy : Farewell dammed dice , & amp ; strong waters clear : Farewell all punks and double beer : I am for Cornwall freely bound : For London does my state confound : There by these three I was made poor : The Dice , Strong waters , and a whore . FINIS . Printed for T. L. [ Dice , wine and women . ] OR The unfortunate Gallant gulled at London . To the tune of Shall I wrestle in despair . F Rom Cornwal mount to London fair , to try all fashions did I repair , Soon came I to a Cornish Chuff , Left by my father rich enough , Yet riches could not me content , Until at London all was spent . The causes why I am so poor , Are Dice , Strong-waters , and a whore . First did I come to Charing-crosse , Where was such smoking none could pass , Brave Gallants there my sighed opposes , Fumed hospitality from their noses : To try those fashions that were there , Five angels cost that day was deer . The causes , etc From thence unto the new Exchange My purse and I did freely range , Whereas a new beginner sold Strong waters new , and Tobacco old : With him at Doublets did I play , Till five more Angels flew away . The causes , etc Then thinking London for to see , within the Strand I chanced to spy Two lovely lasses fair and bright , whom I do guess were painted white : These did I court , and they gave leave , But they at last did me deceive . The causes , etc At Temple-barre I chanced to spy Brave guilded glasses that pleased mine eye , What was , I asked the next I did meet , Who told me it was strong waters sweet All the variety did I taste : That day I full five pound did waste . The causes , etc From thence next day to Fleet-street brave , where I espied many a knave : One among the rest I spied than , who swore he was my country man : With him to Tavern did I go : But dice & amp ; cards there wrought my woe . The causes , etc Then the old Baily did I trace , where I did meet full face to face A Cheater pleading poverty , who asked , if a gold ring I would buy : Five silver tagges , which I poor ass , Bought that for good which proved but brass . The causes , etc Then thinking for to see a play . I met a Pander by the way : Who thinking I had money store , Brought me to Turnboll to a whore : Ere from that house I rid could be , It cost ten pound my setting free . The causes , etc Most of my money being spent , To S. Johns street to the Bull I went , Where I the roaring Rimer saw , And to my face was made a daw : And pressing forth among the folk , I lost my purse , my hat and cloak . The causes , etc The Second Part. TO Hen into Smithfield did I high , where I Strong-waters did espy : From that same shop I could not part : For I loved strong waters with my heart : Going to pay , my purse was gone , For which groat shot my shirt's in pawn . The causes , etc Then to Long-lane I went poor man , And so from thence to Barbican : Money was spent , and my credit scant , And nobody there would relieve my want , Then did I trace to Whitecrosse street , wondered at by all I meet . The causes , etc Wandering along this luckless day , In a noted house by chance I lay : Where as a wench both fair and fine , Loved me in hope I had store of coin : But when she perceived me poor , She stripped , and beatrice me out of door . The causes , etc Thus all along in piteous plighted walked I along till twelve at night : Each one did bar their churlish door , None would regard me being poor : The watch being set , and I in sighed , was sent to new Bridewell that night . The causes , etc There was I set to work full hard : From meae and drink & amp ; pleasure hard : I could have no strong-waters there : Nor scarce a draught of good small beer , I wrought at mill by my fatal sisters , Till both my hands were full of blisters . The causes , etc There lay I long in grief and woe , For by no means I thence could go : No friend would speak in this my plighted , Till I was there a full fortnight : At length a friend I chanced to see , who wrought the means to set me free . The causes , etc Now to my country do I high : London and fashions I defy : Farewell dammed dice , & amp ; strong waters clear : Farewell all punks and double beer : I am for Cornwall freely bound : For London does my state confound : There by these three I was made poor : The Dice , Strong waters , and a whore . FINIS . Printed for T. L. 