TO : I Smell a Rat . To the tune of , Upon a Summer tide , OR , The Seminary Priest . I Traveled far to find where honesty abides , And found in England more then all the world beside ; But where true virtue grows , vice quickly ruins that : A poor man must not speak , although he Smell a Rat . When Justice hath her sighed , she's beautiful in show : But when she Masks her face , how vild she soon does grow ; I do perceive the cause , but dare not speak of that : I'll not offend the Laws , but yet I Smell a Rat . When I see wealthy men , by worldy causes rise : I count them happy here , and truly worldly wise ; But Folly oft makes lean , what Wit hath long kept fat : Who knows how rich men fallen ? in troth I Smell a Rat . Some gathers in their rends , and hordes the coin with care : Stretching their credits great , for money or for ware : When such great men do break , what is the cause of that ? In troth I dare not speak , and yet I Smell a Rat . To see a Courtier kind , is common every hour , To Widow , Wife , or Maid , or any in his power : The Husband's welcome to , but whats the cause of that ? I do not justly know , but yet I Smell a Rat . When luker marries wealth , how joyful are the twaine , On both sides wealths increase comes in with ill god gain : This wealth commands their minds , they live like Dog and Cat ; What should the occasion be ? in faith I Smell a Rat . When rates of all things rise , within a plenteous year : What should the occasion be , that every thing's so deer ; Some censure rich men's faults , and some say this and that : Let all say what they will , for faith I Smell a Rat . When Age does marry Youth , how lovingly they live : The want of youthful blood , this tender Wife does grieve : The old man jealous grows , occasion oft bids that : When wealth and beauty meet , in faith I Smell a Rat . The second Part , To the same Tune . W Herefore does women paint or youngmen prume their hair ? It may be this to make , this earthly carcase fair ; Yet there are causes great , are ten times worse then that : This beauty tempes the eye , in faith I Smell a Rat . When Strumpets strive by Art , and found enticing strains , To bring poor youth to spend both substance , strength , & amp ; veins : What sickness follows lust ? what poverty brings that ? I have no cause to know , but yet I Smell a Rat . When gulls and gooscaps find , the vildness of expense : How penitent their mind , will grow for that offence : But folly to such men , does show them what is what : I speak not all I know , but still I Smell a Rat . To see a Whore fallen sick , why this a common thing : A Hackney soon will tire , does too much burden bring : Beside , and inward grief may be the cause of that , Let Surgeons lend relief : for faith I Smell a Rat . When Seigneur Roman TO , did go upright and straight : He crumples in the hames , so great's his bodies weight : Nay straddles twice as wide , what is the cause of that ? Theres something bars his stride in troth I Smell a Rat . Why grows your Bawds so big , when Panders prove so lean : When they were young they swelled and never will fallen again : The Panders swift on foot , and so keeps down his fat , By bringing some untoed : in troth I Smell a Rat . When Officers let slip to punish such as these : Pray where does Justice fit , or rails she when she please : It may be she is bribed , and so kept blind by that : Else none of these could thrive , in troth I Smell a Rat . When sin strives to surcease , and folly flies away : Where love and lasting peace , will make a glorious day : When England harbours none , that bears the name of Whore , The Rat will run away , and I shall Smell no more . Printed at London for Henry Gosson FINIS . TO : I Smell a Rat . To the tune of , Upon a Summer tide , OR , The Seminary Priest . I Traveled far to find where honesty abides , And found in England more then all the world beside ; But where true virtue grows , vice quickly ruins that : A poor man must not speak , although he Smell a Rat . When Justice hath her sighed , she's beautiful in show : But when she Masks her face , how vild she soon does grow ; I do perceive the cause , but dare not speak of that : I'll not offend the Laws , but yet I Smell a Rat . When I see wealthy men , by worldy causes rise : I count them happy here , and truly worldly wise ; But Folly oft makes lean , what Wit hath long kept fat : Who knows how rich men fallen ? in troth I Smell a Rat . Some gathers in their rends , and hordes the coin with care : Stretching their credits great , for money or for ware : When such great men do break , what is the cause of that ? In troth I dare not speak , and yet I Smell a Rat . To see a Courtier kind , is common every hour , To Widow , Wife , or Maid , or any in his power : The Husband's welcome to , but whats the cause of that ? I do not justly know , but yet I Smell a Rat . When luker marries wealth , how joyful are the twaine , On both sides wealths increase comes in with ill god gain : This wealth commands their minds , they live like Dog and Cat ; What should the occasion be ? in faith I Smell a Rat . When rates of all things rise , within a plenteous year : What should the occasion be , that every thing's so deer ; Some censure rich men's faults , and some say this and that : Let all say what they will , for faith I Smell a Rat . When Age does marry Youth , how lovingly they live : The want of youthful blood , this tender Wife does grieve : The old man jealous grows , occasion oft bids that : When wealth and beauty meet , in faith I Smell a Rat . The second Part , To the same Tune . W Herefore does women paint or youngmen prume their hair ? It may be this to make , this earthly carcase fair ; Yet there are causes great , are ten times worse then that : This beauty tempes the eye , in faith I Smell a Rat . When Strumpets strive by Art , and found enticing strains , To bring poor youth to spend both substance , strength , & amp ; veins : What sickness follows lust ? what poverty brings that ? I have no cause to know , but yet I Smell a Rat . When gulls and gooscaps find , the vildness of expense : How penitent their mind , will grow for that offence : But folly to such men , does show them what is what : I speak not all I know , but still I Smell a Rat . To see a Whore fallen sick , why this a common thing : A Hackney soon will tire , does too much burden bring : Beside , and inward grief may be the cause of that , Let Surgeons lend relief : for faith I Smell a Rat . When Seigneur Roman TO , did go upright and straight : He crumples in the hames , so great's his bodies weight : Nay straddles twice as wide , what is the cause of that ? Theres something bars his stride in troth I Smell a Rat . Why grows your Bawds so big , when Panders prove so lean : When they were young they swelled and never will fallen again : The Panders swift on foot , and so keeps down his fat , By bringing some untoed : in troth I Smell a Rat . When Officers let slip to punish such as these : Pray where does Justice fit , or rails she when she please : It may be she is bribed , and so kept blind by that : Else none of these could thrive , in troth I Smell a Rat . When sin strives to surcease , and folly flies away : Where love and lasting peace , will make a glorious day : When England harbours none , that bears the name of Whore , The Rat will run away , and I shall Smell no more . Printed at London for Henry Gosson FINIS . 