Turners dish of Lentten stuff , or a Galymaufery . To the tune of Watton Towns end . M Y Masters all attend you , if mirth you love to hear : And I will tell you what they cry , in London all the year . I'll please you if I can , I will not be too long , I pray you all attend a while , and listen to my song . The fishwife first begins , nigh Musckles lily white : Hearings , Sprats , or Pleace , or Cockles for delight . Nye welflet Oysters : then she does change her note , She had need to would [ n ] e her tongue by grease for she rattles in the throat . For why they are but Kentish , to tell you out of doubt : Her measure is to little , go beat the bottom out . Half a Peck for two pence , I doubt it is a bodge , Thus all the city over , the people they do dodge . The wench that cries the Kitchen stuff , I marvel what she ails : She sings her note so merry , but she has a dragle tail , And empty Car came running , and hit her on the bum , Down she threw her greasy tub , and away that she did run . But she did give a blessing , to some but not to all : To bear a load to Tyburne , and there to let it fallen , The miller with his golden thumb , and his dusty neck : If that he grind but two bushels , he needs must steal a peck . The Weaver and the Tailor , cozens they be sure : They cannot work but they must steal , to keep their hands in ure , For it is a common proverb , throughout all the town , The Taylor he must cut three sleeves , for every woman's gown . Mark but the Water man , attending for his fare : Of hight and could , of wet and dry , he always takes a share . He carrieth bony lasses , over to the plays , And here and there he gets a bit , and that his stomach stays . There was a stinging boy , did write to ride to Rumford : When I go to my close stool , I will put him in a comfort : But what I leave behind , shall be no private gain : But all is one when I am gone , let him take it for his pain . Old shoes for new Brooms , the broom man he does sing : For hats or caps or buskin's , or any old Pooch rings . [ Buy ] a Mat , a bed Mat , [ a padl ] ock or a Pass , A counterfeit [ ver ] for a close stool , a bigger or a less . Ripe Cheery ripe , the Coster - [ mon ] her cries , Pipins fine , or Pears , another after hies , With basket on his head , his living to advance , And in his purse a pair of Dice , for to play at Mumchance . Hight Pippin pies , to fell unto my friends : Or puding pies in pans , well stuffed with Candles ends , Will you by any Milk , I hear a wench to cry , With a pail of fresh Cheese and , cream another after hies . O the wench went neatly , my thought it did me good : To see her cheery cheeks , so dimpled over with blood , Her wastecoate washed white : as any lily flower , would I had time to talk with her the space of half and hour . Buy black , says the blacking man the best that ere was seen : This good for poor men Citizens to make their shoes to shine , O this a rare commodity , it must not be forgot , It will make them glister gallantly and quickly make them rot . the world is full of thread bore poets , that live upon their pen : But they will write too eloquent , they are such witty men . But the Tinker with his budget , the beggar with his walled , And Turners turned a gallant man , at making of a Ballet . FINIS . Imprinted at London for J.W. The second part , or you are welcome my guest to your Lentten fare if you come when Lent is gone , you shall have better cheer , To the same tune , TO Hat's the fat fool of the Curtin , and the lean fool of the Bull : Since Shanke did leave to sing his rhymes , he is counted but a gull . The players of the Bank side , the round Globe and the Swan , Will teach you idle tricks of love , but the Bull will play the man . But what do I stand tattling , of such Idle toys : I had better go to Smith-field , to play among the Boys , But you cheating and decoying Lads , with your base Art-tillery : I would wish you shun Newgate , and withal the Pillery , And some there be in patched gowns , I know not what they be : They pinch the simple Country men , with nimming of a fee . For where they get a booty , theyle make him pay so deer , Theyle entertain more in a day , then he shall in a year . Which wakes them trim up houses , made of brick , and stone : And poor men go a begging , when house and land is gone . Some there be with both hands ! will swear they will not dally , Till they have turned all upsie down , as mnay use to sally . You Pedlars give good measure , when as your wares you fell : though your yard be short your thum will slip , your tricks I know full well , And you that set your wares by weight , and live upon the trade : Some beams be false , some waits to light such trikes there have been played . Buy small Coals , or great Coals , I have them one my back : The Goose lies in the bottom you may here the Duck cry quack , Thus grim the black Colyer , whose living is so lose , As he does walk the comans over , some times he steals a goose . Thou Usurer with thy money bags , that lives so at ease : By gaping after gold thou dost , thy mighty God displease , And for thy greedy usu [ rye ] and thy great exto [ rtion ] : Exdept thou dost repent thy sins , hell fire will thy portion . For first I came to Hounds-dich , then round about I crept : Where cruelty is crowned chief , and pity fast a sleep , Where Usury gets profit , and brokers bear the bel , O fie upon this deadly sin , it sinks the house to hell . The man that sweeps the chimneys , with the bunsh of thorns : And one his neck a truss of poles , tipped all with horns . With care he is not cumbered , he lives not in dread : For though he wears them on his pole , some wear them one there head . The Landlord with his racking rends , turn poor men out of door : There children go a begging , where they have spent their store , I hope none is offended : at that which is indited , If any be , let him go home , and take a pen and write it . Buy a trap a Mouse trap , a tormentor for the fleas : The hangman works but half the day , he lives too much at ease . Come let us leave this boys play , and idle prittle prat , And let us go to nine holes , to spurn point or to cat . O you nimble fingured lads , that lives upon your wits : Take heed of Tyburne Ague , for they be dangerous fits . For many a proper man , for to supply his lack : Does leap a leap at Tyburne , which makes his neck to crack . And to him that writ this song , I give this simple lot : Let every one be ready , to give him half a pot . And thus I do conlude , wishing both health and peace , To those that are laid in their bed , and cannot sleep for fleas . FINIS . W. Turner . At London printed for J. W . Turners dish of Lentten stuff , or a Galymaufery . To the tune of Watton Towns end . M Y Masters all attend you , if mirth you love to hear : And I will tell you what they cry , in London all the year . I'll please you if I can , I will not be too long , I pray you all attend a while , and listen to my song . The fishwife first begins , nigh Musckles lily white : Hearings , Sprats , or Pleace , or Cockles for delight . Nye welflet Oysters : then she does change her note , She had need to would [ n ] e her tongue by grease for she rattles in the throat . For why they are but Kentish , to tell you out of doubt : Her measure is to little , go beat the bottom out . Half a Peck for two pence , I doubt it is a bodge , Thus all the city over , the people they do dodge . The wench that cries the Kitchen stuff , I marvel what she ails : She sings her note so merry , but she has a dragle tail , And empty Car came running , and hit her on the bum , Down she threw her greasy tub , and away that she did run . But she did give a blessing , to some but not to all : To bear a load to Tyburne , and there to let it fallen , The miller with his golden thumb , and his dusty neck : If that he grind but two bushels , he needs must steal a peck . The Weaver and the Tailor , cozens they be sure : They cannot work but they must steal , to keep their hands in ure , For it is a common proverb , throughout all the town , The Taylor he must cut three sleeves , for every woman's gown . Mark but the Water man , attending for his fare : Of hight and could , of wet and dry , he always takes a share . He carrieth bony lasses , over to the plays , And here and there he gets a bit , and that his stomach stays . There was a stinging boy , did write to ride to Rumford : When I go to my close stool , I will put him in a comfort : But what I leave behind , shall be no private gain : But all is one when I am gone , let him take it for his pain . Old shoes for new Brooms , the broom man he does sing : For hats or caps or buskin's , or any old Pooch rings . [ Buy ] a Mat , a bed Mat , [ a padl ] ock or a Pass , A counterfeit [ ver ] for a close stool , a bigger or a less . Ripe Cheery ripe , the Coster - [ mon ] her cries , Pipins fine , or Pears , another after hies , With basket on his head , his living to advance , And in his purse a pair of Dice , for to play at Mumchance . Hight Pippin pies , to fell unto my friends : Or puding pies in pans , well stuffed with Candles ends , Will you by any Milk , I hear a wench to cry , With a pail of fresh Cheese and , cream another after hies . O the wench went neatly , my thought it did me good : To see her cheery cheeks , so dimpled over with blood , Her wastecoate washed white : as any lily flower , would I had time to talk with her the space of half and hour . Buy black , says the blacking man the best that ere was seen : This good for poor men Citizens to make their shoes to shine , O this a rare commodity , it must not be forgot , It will make them glister gallantly and quickly make them rot . the world is full of thread bore poets , that live upon their pen : But they will write too eloquent , they are such witty men . But the Tinker with his budget , the beggar with his walled , And Turners turned a gallant man , at making of a Ballet . FINIS . Imprinted at London for J.W. The second part , or you are welcome my guest to your Lentten fare if you come when Lent is gone , you shall have better cheer , To the same tune , TO Hat's the fat fool of the Curtin , and the lean fool of the Bull : Since Shanke did leave to sing his rhymes , he is counted but a gull . The players of the Bank side , the round Globe and the Swan , Will teach you idle tricks of love , but the Bull will play the man . But what do I stand tattling , of such Idle toys : I had better go to Smith-field , to play among the Boys , But you cheating and decoying Lads , with your base Art-tillery : I would wish you shun Newgate , and withal the Pillery , And some there be in patched gowns , I know not what they be : They pinch the simple Country men , with nimming of a fee . For where they get a booty , theyle make him pay so deer , Theyle entertain more in a day , then he shall in a year . Which wakes them trim up houses , made of brick , and stone : And poor men go a begging , when house and land is gone . Some there be with both hands ! will swear they will not dally , Till they have turned all upsie down , as mnay use to sally . You Pedlars give good measure , when as your wares you fell : though your yard be short your thum will slip , your tricks I know full well , And you that set your wares by weight , and live upon the trade : Some beams be false , some waits to light such trikes there have been played . Buy small Coals , or great Coals , I have them one my back : The Goose lies in the bottom you may here the Duck cry quack , Thus grim the black Colyer , whose living is so lose , As he does walk the comans over , some times he steals a goose . Thou Usurer with thy money bags , that lives so at ease : By gaping after gold thou dost , thy mighty God displease , And for thy greedy usu [ rye ] and thy great exto [ rtion ] : Exdept thou dost repent thy sins , hell fire will thy portion . For first I came to Hounds-dich , then round about I crept : Where cruelty is crowned chief , and pity fast a sleep , Where Usury gets profit , and brokers bear the bel , O fie upon this deadly sin , it sinks the house to hell . The man that sweeps the chimneys , with the bunsh of thorns : And one his neck a truss of poles , tipped all with horns . With care he is not cumbered , he lives not in dread : For though he wears them on his pole , some wear them one there head . The Landlord with his racking rends , turn poor men out of door : There children go a begging , where they have spent their store , I hope none is offended : at that which is indited , If any be , let him go home , and take a pen and write it . Buy a trap a Mouse trap , a tormentor for the fleas : The hangman works but half the day , he lives too much at ease . Come let us leave this boys play , and idle prittle prat , And let us go to nine holes , to spurn point or to cat . O you nimble fingured lads , that lives upon your wits : Take heed of Tyburne Ague , for they be dangerous fits . For many a proper man , for to supply his lack : Does leap a leap at Tyburne , which makes his neck to crack . And to him that writ this song , I give this simple lot : Let every one be ready , to give him half a pot . And thus I do conlude , wishing both health and peace , To those that are laid in their bed , and cannot sleep for fleas . FINIS . W. Turner . At London printed for J. W. 