Sure my Nurse was a witch , OR , The merry Night-wench . Who when her child does cry , merry to make him , Does sing unto it , Come take him beggar , take him . To the tune of See the golding , or Watton towns end . I N Londons City fair , a merry Nurse does dwell , The which for singing rarely all others does excel . For always she is merry , unto her baby young , She day and night , does take delight in singing of this song , Come take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , He cries and will not quiet be , then take him beggar take him . The bowsing pot companion that always would be drinking ; His credit never respecting , but from all grace is shrinking , And apt unto all villainy most wretched that can make him , If he will not reformed be come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The slothful lazy sluggard that painful labour hates , And loves for to be night and day , among his idle mates , Good counsel despising should from his sins awake him , If he will not reformed be come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him : Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The rooking bragging Rorer , that's in the Mercers books , Let him not think to pay his debts , with his lofty looks . For if a Sergeant unawares should by the shoulders shake him , It quickly would increase his cares , come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . That [ e ] [ Gall ] ant that's addicted to worser [ ? ] women's beauty , In serving [ ? ] Creator it makes him slack in duty : For being given to Venery , unless that grace awake him , It is the way to penury , come take him beggar take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The foolish swearing Gamester , he in that cursed vice Delights to play , still night and day at Tables , Cards , and Dice : In cursing , and in swearing . which makes his friends forsake him , And when al's lost , to jeer him . come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The second part . To the same Tune . TO He giddy headed Shopkeeper loves gadding here , and there , And of his business at home hath no respect and care : Still wasting , and consuming it quickly poor will make him If once he counter tenor sing , come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The young fantastic scholar , so passing full of wit , Bred in the University and knowledge there did get : If so conceited proud he be as make his friends forsake him , And given unto ebriety . come take him beggar take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar take him . The spruce and handsome Taylor , new fashions does invent For making clothes , is paid with oaths which breeds his discontent : Great is his charge , and house-rent , which is the cause does make him Be forced to break , the truth to speak . come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him , The jovial neat Shoemaker is on the Tanners score By giving rust to galnts , a means to make him poor ; And when he can no longer trust , unkindly they forsake him , Which grieves his heart , and breeds his smart , come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The nimble fair tongued Tapster , that cries anon I come , By coring , and by scoring and trusting Jack and Tom , Dick , Daniel , Hodge , and Humphry , who kindly fair did speak him Till Brewer swore to trust no more , come take him beggar , take him , Oh take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . If ever I do marry I'll have a yeoman man , To be his wife the country life my mind is bent upon ; No other I can fancy , my husband for to make him A Tradesman he , is not for me ; come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . London , Printed for H.G. FINIS . Ro . Guy . Sure my Nurse was a witch , OR , The merry Night-wench . Who when her child does cry , merry to make him , Does sing unto it , Come take him beggar , take him . To the tune of See the golding , or Watton towns end . I N Londons City fair , a merry Nurse does dwell , The which for singing rarely all others does excel . For always she is merry , unto her baby young , She day and night , does take delight in singing of this song , Come take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , He cries and will not quiet be , then take him beggar take him . The bowsing pot companion that always would be drinking ; His credit never respecting , but from all grace is shrinking , And apt unto all villainy most wretched that can make him , If he will not reformed be come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The slothful lazy sluggard that painful labour hates , And loves for to be night and day , among his idle mates , Good counsel despising should from his sins awake him , If he will not reformed be come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him : Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The rooking bragging Rorer , that's in the Mercers books , Let him not think to pay his debts , with his lofty looks . For if a Sergeant unawares should by the shoulders shake him , It quickly would increase his cares , come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . That [ e ] [ Gall ] ant that's addicted to worser [ ? ] women's beauty , In serving [ ? ] Creator it makes him slack in duty : For being given to Venery , unless that grace awake him , It is the way to penury , come take him beggar take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The foolish swearing Gamester , he in that cursed vice Delights to play , still night and day at Tables , Cards , and Dice : In cursing , and in swearing . which makes his friends forsake him , And when al's lost , to jeer him . come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The second part . To the same Tune . TO He giddy headed Shopkeeper loves gadding here , and there , And of his business at home hath no respect and care : Still wasting , and consuming it quickly poor will make him If once he counter tenor sing , come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The young fantastic scholar , so passing full of wit , Bred in the University and knowledge there did get : If so conceited proud he be as make his friends forsake him , And given unto ebriety . come take him beggar take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar take him . The spruce and handsome Taylor , new fashions does invent For making clothes , is paid with oaths which breeds his discontent : Great is his charge , and house-rent , which is the cause does make him Be forced to break , the truth to speak . come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him , The jovial neat Shoemaker is on the Tanners score By giving rust to galnts , a means to make him poor ; And when he can no longer trust , unkindly they forsake him , Which grieves his heart , and breeds his smart , come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . The nimble fair tongued Tapster , that cries anon I come , By coring , and by scoring and trusting Jack and Tom , Dick , Daniel , Hodge , and Humphry , who kindly fair did speak him Till Brewer swore to trust no more , come take him beggar , take him , Oh take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . If ever I do marry I'll have a yeoman man , To be his wife the country life my mind is bent upon ; No other I can fancy , my husband for to make him A Tradesman he , is not for me ; come take him beggar , take him . O take him beggar , take him , here take him beggar , take him , Thus still she sings unto her child , come take him beggar , take him . London , Printed for H.G. FINIS . Ro . Guy . 