O Gramercy Penny : Being a Lancashire Ditty , and chiefly penned , To prove that a penny is a men best friend . To the tune of , Its better late thrive then never . W Hen I call to mind those Jovial days , which in the Old time were used : I fear that their number greatly decays , and that they are greatly abused . For when a man once begins to be poor , His friends by him then will set little store . This Ditty I have now penned therefore , Of o gramercy good penny , good penny , Of o gramercy good penny . among all the rank of my neighbours and friends , and in the place of my dwelling , I have made a trial even for my own ends , for that's a thing chiefly excelling . For many have promised much indeed , Which fail me now when I seem to have most need , And makes me now for to cry with all speed , With o gramercy good penny , etc If in any Court the Law you would gain , take heed your Fees you spare not , For nought without money there can you obtain , though you beg on your knees they care not : So long as your money does make a great show , Though your matter be bad , it must forward go , This a special point in the Law , as you know , With o gramercy good penny , etc Or if that you unto the Alehouse do go , arrayed in Clothes most finely , With money and gold in your fist for to show , theyle say you are welcome most kindly : They'll say that you are kindly welcome good Sir , To taste any banquets that we now have here , Tobacco , brown Ale , or strong double Beer . But this gramercy good penny , etc Or if to the Tavern your course you do bend , to laugh , quaff , and for to be merry . With Sugar-plums , dainty Cates , and Muscadine , Canary , old Sack , or brown Sherry . A set of Musicians before you shall play , From morning till evening , from evening till day , This all for your money , therefore you may say , O still gramercy good penny , etc Sometime you may have a desire to a Wench , being willing to do your duty , Perhaps away from you sheele strive for to flinch , it stands upon her beauty . But if she your gold and your money did see , To fulfil your humour , she straight will agree , O it is the trick of each age and degree : Then say gramercy good penny , etc In Market or Towne-place , among all the rest , whereas the rich Merchant espies you , With a purse well lined , and gold in your fist , o do but mark how he eyes you . With , What do you lack , you shall be welcome still . Come neere-sir , I pray you , and choose what you will , Take it on my word , if you think you want skill , But o gramercy good penny , good penny , But o gramercy good penny . The second Part. To the same tune . W Hen lately my flood seemed to be at and ebb , then I could not meet with any : But they said to my face , I had spun a fair web , though I had before indeed many . They would have walked about a long mile , Ere they would have met me in Lane or at Style , Therefore though they seem now on me to smile . This o gramercy good penny , good penny , This o gramercy good penny . O twice gramercy , good penny to thee , for thou dost oftimes besteaded me , For I am debarred all company , if once they but know I do need thee . But when they do know that I have store of chink , With me those laugh , dance , carouse , sing and drink , Have I not good cause then to say do you think O so gramercy good penny , etc When men for my labour , a penny me lend , what reason have I to abuse it , 'Twill make me to drink when my counterfeit friend , to give me one drop will refuse it . One penny I more do esteem in my Purse , Then either Pope Gregories blessing or curse , It will be my friend , when all things are at worst , Then o gramercy good penny , etc While I his good company may but enjoy , may I not make bold for to tarry , And with Beer and Victuals expel all annoy , at and Inn or and Ordinary : Each Victualling-house , and each Tavern will then , Say , Show a Room , welcome you are Gentlemen , My Host he will give me a Pipe and a Kan , But o gramercy good penny etc If at and Inne-gate , I chance for to peep , and have not a penny about me , The Tapster will frown , and the Chamberlains swear , and the Ostlers they will flout me . My Host will then scorn my companion to be , My Hosts will look far more disdainfully , Then tell me ist better to stay or to fly , When I have not thee , o good penny , etc I lite in a company lately by Fate , who scornfully me disdained , And that they were vexed with a moneyless Mate , unto my face they complained : But when they thought I had money by'th pound , To make me most welcome , each of them was bound , Entreating me kindly to pledge them one round , But o gramercy good penny , etc All Arts in the world invented have been , of which there are now so many , In every Region o'th Earth to be seen , chifely to obtain this brave penny . For too well it is known in every place , That the want thereof is the greatest disgrace , For never man was in more pitiful case , Then he that does want thee , o penny , etc Therefore I wish all men in time to take heed , before that they feel this Consumption . And to spare their Coin , till the time they do need , lest they repent of their presumption . A boy that hath money's , a man of renown , A man that's without it , is counted a Clown , But he's in good case that can say of his own , O now gramercy good penny , good penny , O now gramercy good penny . Printed for M. Trundle , Widow . FINIS . L . F.Oh Gramercy Penny : Being a Lancashire Ditty , and chiefly penned , To prove that a penny is a men best friend . To the tune of , Its better late thrive then never . W Hen I call to mind those Jovial days , which in the Old time were used : I fear that their number greatly decays , and that they are greatly abused . For when a man once begins to be poor , His friends by him then will set little store . This Ditty I have now penned therefore , Of o gramercy good penny , good penny , Of o gramercy good penny . among all the rank of my neighbours and friends , and in the place of my dwelling , I have made a trial even for my own ends , for that's a thing chiefly excelling . For many have promised much indeed , Which fail me now when I seem to have most need , And makes me now for to cry with all speed , With o gramercy good penny , etc If in any Court the Law you would gain , take heed your Fees you spare not , For nought without money there can you obtain , though you beg on your knees they care not : So long as your money does make a great show , Though your matter be bad , it must forward go , This a special point in the Law , as you know , With o gramercy good penny , etc Or if that you unto the Alehouse do go , arrayed in Clothes most finely , With money and gold in your fist for to show , theyle say you are welcome most kindly : They'll say that you are kindly welcome good Sir , To taste any banquets that we now have here , Tobacco , brown Ale , or strong double Beer . But this gramercy good penny , etc Or if to the Tavern your course you do bend , to laugh , quaff , and for to be merry . With Sugar-plums , dainty Cates , and Muscadine , Canary , old Sack , or brown Sherry . A set of Musicians before you shall play , From morning till evening , from evening till day , This all for your money , therefore you may say , O still gramercy good penny , etc Sometime you may have a desire to a Wench , being willing to do your duty , Perhaps away from you sheele strive for to flinch , it stands upon her beauty . But if she your gold and your money did see , To fulfil your humour , she straight will agree , O it is the trick of each age and degree : Then say gramercy good penny , etc In Market or Towne-place , among all the rest , whereas the rich Merchant espies you , With a purse well lined , and gold in your fist , o do but mark how he eyes you . With , What do you lack , you shall be welcome still . Come neere-sir , I pray you , and choose what you will , Take it on my word , if you think you want skill , But o gramercy good penny , good penny , But o gramercy good penny . The second Part. To the same tune . W Hen lately my flood seemed to be at and ebb , then I could not meet with any : But they said to my face , I had spun a fair web , though I had before indeed many . They would have walked about a long mile , Ere they would have met me in Lane or at Style , Therefore though they seem now on me to smile . This o gramercy good penny , good penny , This o gramercy good penny . O twice gramercy , good penny to thee , for thou dost oftimes besteaded me , For I am debarred all company , if once they but know I do need thee . But when they do know that I have store of chink , With me those laugh , dance , carouse , sing and drink , Have I not good cause then to say do you think O so gramercy good penny , etc When men for my labour , a penny me lend , what reason have I to abuse it , 'Twill make me to drink when my counterfeit friend , to give me one drop will refuse it . One penny I more do esteem in my Purse , Then either Pope Gregories blessing or curse , It will be my friend , when all things are at worst , Then o gramercy good penny , etc While I his good company may but enjoy , may I not make bold for to tarry , And with Beer and Victuals expel all annoy , at and Inn or and Ordinary : Each Victualling-house , and each Tavern will then , Say , Show a Room , welcome you are Gentlemen , My Host he will give me a Pipe and a Kan , But o gramercy good penny etc If at and Inne-gate , I chance for to peep , and have not a penny about me , The Tapster will frown , and the Chamberlains swear , and the Ostlers they will flout me . My Host will then scorn my companion to be , My Hosts will look far more disdainfully , Then tell me ist better to stay or to fly , When I have not thee , o good penny , etc I lite in a company lately by Fate , who scornfully me disdained , And that they were vexed with a moneyless Mate , unto my face they complained : But when they thought I had money by'th pound , To make me most welcome , each of them was bound , Entreating me kindly to pledge them one round , But o gramercy good penny , etc All Arts in the world invented have been , of which there are now so many , In every Region o'th Earth to be seen , chifely to obtain this brave penny . For too well it is known in every place , That the want thereof is the greatest disgrace , For never man was in more pitiful case , Then he that does want thee , o penny , etc Therefore I wish all men in time to take heed , before that they feel this Consumption . And to spare their Coin , till the time they do need , lest they repent of their presumption . A boy that hath money's , a man of renown , A man that's without it , is counted a Clown , But he's in good case that can say of his own , O now gramercy good penny , good penny , O now gramercy good penny . Printed for M. Trundle , Widow . FINIS . L.F. 