A Statute for Swearers and Drunkards , OR Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you , For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . To the tune of When Canons are roaring . Y Ou that in wicked ways long time have ranged ; Now must be with the times , turned and changed . The Realms careful keepers such Laws have ordained , By which from your vices base , you must be weaned . Let high and low , rich and poor , strive for to mend all ; And forbear for to swear , curse , drink , and spend all : Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that do swim in silks , in gold and bravery ; Think not , your gawdy clothes can hide your knavery : You that consume your states , by deboshed courses ; Riding the Turnbole Jades , like hackney horses : Banish your now base tricks , your drinking and drabbing , Your cursing , your swearing , your roaring and stabbing : Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that think , he's no man of reputation , That cannot swear and be drunk , and do't in fashion ; You that do think your selves never better graced ; Then when amongst drunkards you are set and placed : You do that brag , and say , your brains are stronger , Then shallow pates , who at pots cannot hold longer . Forsake now your follies your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the stocks will have you . You that cry , Kergo , boys , hang up all sorrow ; Drink stiff , our Landlord shall stay till to morrow : Then reeling out of doors into the kennel ; Yet swear , you sweeter smell then does the Fennell : You that lie bathing from morning till twilight , In Tavern and Tippling house , to clear the eyesight . Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that will whoot at him , as at some wonder , That will not rap out oaths loud as the Thunder ; You that familiarly use in your talking , Profanely for to swear , sitting or walking : And you that deem them not men of good fashion ; That has not learned the rules of Profanation . Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you , For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . The second Part . To the same tune . Be warned by me you Swearers and Drunkards for I first broke the Statute Y Ou that sweat our your life in beastly drinking ; Until your bodies and breathes be stinking : You that fit sucking still at the strong barrel , Till into tatters rend turns your apparel : You that by guzzling transform your best features , Changing your selves from men , to swinish creatures : Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the stocks will have you . You that do scorn abroad for to be scanting , Though to your wife at home , bred may be wanting . And your poor children eke likely to perish : While you with Taplash strong your corpse do cherish : Crying still , let them starve , tush , it's no matter . With drink isle stuff my guts , let them drink water . Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that at midnight can outsweare the watchmen ; And brave a Constable , that stands to catch men , You that with giddy brains by the wall holds , And ith' dark every post in his arms foldeth . And you that in the dirt , thrust deep your noses ; There sleeping sweetly as in beds of Roses : Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that in dregs of drink so drown your reason ; That you are loath to leave in timely season : But drink still following , neglect your vocation ; Till you have nor means left , nor habitation , You that will spend as much , just at one sitting ; As would a week yours keep with victuals fitting , Forsake now your folly , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that desire to dwell In heaven hereafter , Must not of this device Make jest or laughter : But must shake off these crimes , With much distasting , If you hope to enjoy Life everlasting . To honest men let this be Found admonition , To bewail their past sins With sad contrition , Forsake now your follies , Your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , The Stocks will have you . Printed at Londondon for J.T. and are to be sold at his shop in SmithfieldA Statute for Swearers and Drunkards , OR Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you , For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . To the tune of When Canons are roaring . Y Ou that in wicked ways long time have ranged ; Now must be with the times , turned and changed . The Realms careful keepers such Laws have ordained , By which from your vices base , you must be weaned . Let high and low , rich and poor , strive for to mend all ; And forbear for to swear , curse , drink , and spend all : Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that do swim in silks , in gold and bravery ; Think not , your gawdy clothes can hide your knavery : You that consume your states , by deboshed courses ; Riding the Turnbole Jades , like hackney horses : Banish your now base tricks , your drinking and drabbing , Your cursing , your swearing , your roaring and stabbing : Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that think , he's no man of reputation , That cannot swear and be drunk , and do't in fashion ; You that do think your selves never better graced ; Then when amongst drunkards you are set and placed : You do that brag , and say , your brains are stronger , Then shallow pates , who at pots cannot hold longer . Forsake now your follies your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the stocks will have you . You that cry , Kergo , boys , hang up all sorrow ; Drink stiff , our Landlord shall stay till to morrow : Then reeling out of doors into the kennel ; Yet swear , you sweeter smell then does the Fennell : You that lie bathing from morning till twilight , In Tavern and Tippling house , to clear the eyesight . Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that will whoot at him , as at some wonder , That will not rap out oaths loud as the Thunder ; You that familiarly use in your talking , Profanely for to swear , sitting or walking : And you that deem them not men of good fashion ; That has not learned the rules of Profanation . Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you , For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . The second Part . To the same tune . Be warned by me you Swearers and Drunkards for I first broke the Statute Y Ou that sweat our your life in beastly drinking ; Until your bodies and breathes be stinking : You that fit sucking still at the strong barrel , Till into tatters rend turns your apparel : You that by guzzling transform your best features , Changing your selves from men , to swinish creatures : Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the stocks will have you . You that do scorn abroad for to be scanting , Though to your wife at home , bred may be wanting . And your poor children eke likely to perish : While you with Taplash strong your corpse do cherish : Crying still , let them starve , tush , it's no matter . With drink isle stuff my guts , let them drink water . Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that at midnight can outsweare the watchmen ; And brave a Constable , that stands to catch men , You that with giddy brains by the wall holds , And ith' dark every post in his arms foldeth . And you that in the dirt , thrust deep your noses ; There sleeping sweetly as in beds of Roses : Forsake now your follies , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that in dregs of drink so drown your reason ; That you are loath to leave in timely season : But drink still following , neglect your vocation ; Till you have nor means left , nor habitation , You that will spend as much , just at one sitting ; As would a week yours keep with victuals fitting , Forsake now your folly , your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , the Stocks will have you . You that desire to dwell In heaven hereafter , Must not of this device Make jest or laughter : But must shake off these crimes , With much distasting , If you hope to enjoy Life everlasting . To honest men let this be Found admonition , To bewail their past sins With sad contrition , Forsake now your follies , Your book cannot save you : For if you swear and be drunk , The Stocks will have you . Printed at Londondon for J.T. and are to be sold at his shop in Smithfield 