A Quip for a scornful Lass . Or , Three slips for a Tester . To the tune of Two slips for a Tester . A Ll you who have herd How I did regard a peevish disdainful Lass , Who proud of her beauty , Forgetting her duty , did seek to make me and ass : Hear likewise my part , Who have in my heart resolved evermore to detest he , Sith she was i'th fault , I well may revolt , and give her three slips for a tester . There once a time was , When I loved that lass , more deer then I did mine own life And firmly was bent , If she would consent , with speed to have made her my wife : The foolish nice creature , Looked I should entreat her , such madness and folly possessed her : No more I'll be vexed , My humour is fixed , I'll give her three slips for a tester . As she was to me , To her will I be : for so all my friends do advice , If I should her meet , I would not her greet , nor afford her a glance from my eyes : As I on the way Was walking one day , to meet me straight way she addressed her : Which I to prevent , A contrary way went , and gave her three slips for a tester . She came tother day To the house where I lay , to speak with me was her desire , She said that she would See me if she could , but I said I scorned to come nigh her : Yet thorough the glass I peeped on my Lass , good Lord how brave she had dressed her In hope to allure , But let her be sure , I'll give her three slips for a tester . She stayed at the door , And hour and more , to wait for my coming in sighed : At last I came to her , But not like a wooer , though once she was all my delight , But that I was loath To infringe mine oath , I had gone very near to have kissed her She seemed so fair , I could hardly forbear , yet I gave her three slips for a ttester . What lack you fair maid , Unto her I said , or what is your errand with me She prayed me to come To her father at home , to which I denied to agree : And made a reply , That never more I intended my mind to pester , With any small thought That concerned me ought , but to give her three slips for a tester . The second part . To the same tune . A TO last I went with her , And so both together did come where her father did dwell . I wonder , quoth he , That we cannot you see , what have you forsaken my Nel ? Your daughters too fine , Quoth I to be mine , therefore this in vain to molest her : Yet take this from me , Ime as scornful as she , and I'll give her three slips for a tester . Then she standing by , Put finger i'th eye , and sorely began to weep : Sir quoth the old man , Do all what we can , where love cannot go it will creep . All this would not serve , I still did reserve my vow , & amp ; Ime glad that I missed her , Thus I took my leave , And they all did perceive , I would give her three slips for a tester . Yet since at a Wedding , Where she came a gadding , among other maids of the town , She came to the board , Of her own accord , and close by me she sat down , Thought I this is strange , To see such a change , I wished that my tongue had a blister . When I made that vow , But I must keeped now , and give her three slips for a tester . It makes me to muse , That she who did use so much to reject me before , Should follow me so , Where ere I do go , yet she hath incensed me so soar , My heart is so hard , I cannot regard her beauty which brightly does glister . I would have had feign What now I disdain , I must give her three slips for a tester . If I had not sworn To hold her in scorn , I would not so hardly deal with her . O had she been true , As to lovers is due , ere this we had married together , For me she shall stay , Yet needs must I say , that love is a soar that will fester : I pity her state , But help is too late , I must give her three slips for a tester . Let every maid Mark what I have said , and leave off all scornful disdain , Take love while this proffered , And time while this offered , or else you may wish fored in vain : My love when time was Did make me and ass , and played upon me like a Jester : But the worst is her share , I scorn to take care , but I'll give her three slips for a tester . Printed at London for F. Grove . FINIS . A Quip for a scornful Lass . Or , Three slips for a Tester . To the tune of Two slips for a Tester . A Ll you who have herd How I did regard a peevish disdainful Lass , Who proud of her beauty , Forgetting her duty , did seek to make me and ass : Hear likewise my part , Who have in my heart resolved evermore to detest he , Sith she was i'th fault , I well may revolt , and give her three slips for a tester . There once a time was , When I loved that lass , more deer then I did mine own life And firmly was bent , If she would consent , with speed to have made her my wife : The foolish nice creature , Looked I should entreat her , such madness and folly possessed her : No more I'll be vexed , My humour is fixed , I'll give her three slips for a tester . As she was to me , To her will I be : for so all my friends do advice , If I should her meet , I would not her greet , nor afford her a glance from my eyes : As I on the way Was walking one day , to meet me straight way she addressed her : Which I to prevent , A contrary way went , and gave her three slips for a tester . She came tother day To the house where I lay , to speak with me was her desire , She said that she would See me if she could , but I said I scorned to come nigh her : Yet thorough the glass I peeped on my Lass , good Lord how brave she had dressed her In hope to allure , But let her be sure , I'll give her three slips for a tester . She stayed at the door , And hour and more , to wait for my coming in sighed : At last I came to her , But not like a wooer , though once she was all my delight , But that I was loath To infringe mine oath , I had gone very near to have kissed her She seemed so fair , I could hardly forbear , yet I gave her three slips for a ttester . What lack you fair maid , Unto her I said , or what is your errand with me She prayed me to come To her father at home , to which I denied to agree : And made a reply , That never more I intended my mind to pester , With any small thought That concerned me ought , but to give her three slips for a tester . The second part . To the same tune . A TO last I went with her , And so both together did come where her father did dwell . I wonder , quoth he , That we cannot you see , what have you forsaken my Nel ? Your daughters too fine , Quoth I to be mine , therefore this in vain to molest her : Yet take this from me , Ime as scornful as she , and I'll give her three slips for a tester . Then she standing by , Put finger i'th eye , and sorely began to weep : Sir quoth the old man , Do all what we can , where love cannot go it will creep . All this would not serve , I still did reserve my vow , & amp ; Ime glad that I missed her , Thus I took my leave , And they all did perceive , I would give her three slips for a tester . Yet since at a Wedding , Where she came a gadding , among other maids of the town , She came to the board , Of her own accord , and close by me she sat down , Thought I this is strange , To see such a change , I wished that my tongue had a blister . When I made that vow , But I must keeped now , and give her three slips for a tester . It makes me to muse , That she who did use so much to reject me before , Should follow me so , Where ere I do go , yet she hath incensed me so soar , My heart is so hard , I cannot regard her beauty which brightly does glister . I would have had feign What now I disdain , I must give her three slips for a tester . If I had not sworn To hold her in scorn , I would not so hardly deal with her . O had she been true , As to lovers is due , ere this we had married together , For me she shall stay , Yet needs must I say , that love is a soar that will fester : I pity her state , But help is too late , I must give her three slips for a tester . Let every maid Mark what I have said , and leave off all scornful disdain , Take love while this proffered , And time while this offered , or else you may wish fored in vain : My love when time was Did make me and ass , and played upon me like a Jester : But the worst is her share , I scorn to take care , but I'll give her three slips for a tester . Printed at London for F. Grove . FINIS . 