Jone is as good as my Lady . To the tune of What care I how fair she be . S Hall I here rehearse the story Of a Woman in her Glory , You have herd how Evah came Into the world , the first fair Dame , she was naked had no clothing , yet she did deserve no loathing : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . What care I for silks array That but glistereth in the day , Each other Sense deserves as much , Thats to hear , to taste , to touch , Gentle Joane may be as fair as a rich men only heir , then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Jone can call by name her Cows , And deck her windows with green bows She can wreathes and Tutties make , And deck with plumbs a Bridal Cake , Is not Joane a House wife then Judge true hearted honest men : Then good friend I say to thee Joane is as good as my Lady . Joane can bake and Joane can brew And to give sweet Joane her endue , Any thing that longs to man , Joane will do it if she can , she will seek all sorts to please , and love no idleness or ease : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Joane can spin and Joane can carded , Joan keeps clean both house and yard , She can dress both flesh and fish , Or any thing that you can wish : she can sow and she can knit , Joane for any thing is fit : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Joane is of a lovely brown , Neat as any in the Town : Heaire as black as any Crow , And does nimbly trip and go , slender waste , and fingers long , roaling eye , and nimble tongue : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . The second Part. to the same tune . JOane is skipping like a Fawn in a pleasant verture Lawn , When she plays at Barleibreak , She of all does give the squeak : Joane can dance a Scottish Jig and does nimbly play the rig : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . When the young men of the Town Gives the Maidens a green Gown , Joane hath kisses more then they , And does bear the Bell away Still the garland she does win for her dancing trick and trime : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . All the Youths of our Towns end Strive to make sweet Joane their friend , Some gives Purses , some gives Rings , With Bracelets , Girdles , & amp ; sum [ changed ] things , happy is their hour and time who can give sweet Joane the wine : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Put her on a Silken Gown , Theres no Lady in the Town , But with her she may compare , And is every way as fair , painted clothes the body shapes making them fantastic Apes : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Spepheards Swains admires her note , When she straineth but her throat , Then they throw their Pipes away , Vowing Joane hath god the day , they join hands and dance a ring ; and this is all the song they sing , we conclude , and all agree , Joanes as good as my Lady . FINIS . Printed at London by A . M . Jone is as good as my Lady . To the tune of What care I how fair she be . S Hall I here rehearse the story Of a Woman in her Glory , You have herd how Evah came Into the world , the first fair Dame , she was naked had no clothing , yet she did deserve no loathing : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . What care I for silks array That but glistereth in the day , Each other Sense deserves as much , Thats to hear , to taste , to touch , Gentle Joane may be as fair as a rich men only heir , then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Jone can call by name her Cows , And deck her windows with green bows She can wreathes and Tutties make , And deck with plumbs a Bridal Cake , Is not Joane a House wife then Judge true hearted honest men : Then good friend I say to thee Joane is as good as my Lady . Joane can bake and Joane can brew And to give sweet Joane her endue , Any thing that longs to man , Joane will do it if she can , she will seek all sorts to please , and love no idleness or ease : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Joane can spin and Joane can carded , Joan keeps clean both house and yard , She can dress both flesh and fish , Or any thing that you can wish : she can sow and she can knit , Joane for any thing is fit : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Joane is of a lovely brown , Neat as any in the Town : Heaire as black as any Crow , And does nimbly trip and go , slender waste , and fingers long , roaling eye , and nimble tongue : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . The second Part. to the same tune . JOane is skipping like a Fawn in a pleasant verture Lawn , When she plays at Barleibreak , She of all does give the squeak : Joane can dance a Scottish Jig and does nimbly play the rig : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . When the young men of the Town Gives the Maidens a green Gown , Joane hath kisses more then they , And does bear the Bell away Still the garland she does win for her dancing trick and trime : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . All the Youths of our Towns end Strive to make sweet Joane their friend , Some gives Purses , some gives Rings , With Bracelets , Girdles , & amp ; sum [ changed ] things , happy is their hour and time who can give sweet Joane the wine : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Put her on a Silken Gown , Theres no Lady in the Town , But with her she may compare , And is every way as fair , painted clothes the body shapes making them fantastic Apes : then good friend I say to thee , Joanes as good as my Lady . Spepheards Swains admires her note , When she straineth but her throat , Then they throw their Pipes away , Vowing Joane hath god the day , they join hands and dance a ring ; and this is all the song they sing , we conclude , and all agree , Joanes as good as my Lady . FINIS . Printed at London by A . M . 