A Bachelors Resolution . OR Have among you now , Widows or Maids , For I come a wooing as Fancy persuades . I must have a Wife , be she Older or Younger , For I cannot , nor will not lie alone any longer . To the tune of , The Blazing Torch . A Bachelor I have been long , and had no mind to marry , But now I find it did me wrong that [ I ] so long did tarry , Therefore I will a wooing ride , there's many married younger , Where shall I go to see [ e ] ke a Bride ? I'll lie alone no longer . So many sins are incident unto a single life , That I all danger to prevent with speed will seek a Wife : If I with Women chance to drink I'm called a Muttonmonger , But now I'll stop their mouths I think And lie alone no longer . O Fate send me a handsome Lass that I can fancy well , For Portion I'll not greatly pass , though Money hears the bell . Love now adays with Gold is bought but I'm not Money-monger . Give me a Wife , though she's worth nought I'll lie alone no longer . Yet if she chance to prove a Slut , a Scold , or else a Whore , That could not choose but be a cut , and v [ e ] xe me very soar , A Slut would make me loath my meat were I half dead with hunger , But I must leave this found conceate , And lie alone no longer . What if she should a Wanton be , and make my forehead ache ? O that would be a grief to me , such wrongs few men will take , For jealousy is of such force , no passion can be stronger , But be she better , be she worse , I'll lie alone no longer . If jealous she shall be of me , that were as great a spite , Then should we seldom quiet be , but quarrel day and night , She'd think my love from her did range though I never meant to wrong her , Yet this shall not my humour change , I'll lie alone no longer . What shall I do to choose a wife in every thing complete ? Should I in searching spend my life , would prove a task to great , No Man can find a Woman so , the older nor the younger , I'll take my chance as others do , And lie alone no longer . Yet will I choose the best I can , Jove send me luck in choosing , And crave the counsel of some man whose counsels worth the using : If she prove good I shall be glad , and vow I'll never wrong her , Yet am resolved good or bad To lie alone no longer . The second Part. To the same tune . I Le be contented with my lot , how ever it befall , Yet if she prove a drunken sot , it'll grieve me worst of all , Then I my self must drink small-beer , and she must drink the stronger , Thought cost me twenty pounds a year , I'll lie alone no longer . This is the only time I know , for Youngmen to get Wives , They say that Maids and Widows now fo [ r ] Husbands daily strives , That [ eref ] over I shall be quickly sped , si [ tO ] h both for Husbands hunger , With any man theyle quickly wed , Theyle lie alone no longer . Be she a widow or a Bawd , I do not greatly pass , A withered Crone whose blo [ oh ] d's decayde , or a young lively Lass : One that is rich , or one that's poor , a feeble , or a stronger : And honest woman , or a whore , I'll lie alone no longer . But yet if I my choice may have a Maid [ s ] hold b [ e ] my wife , I would not be a Widows slave , Idem rather lose my life : If I should wed a Widow old , I had better take a younger , For Widows will not be controlled , Yet I can stay no longer . If she should have a stinking breath I never should abide her , For that to me is worse then death , I had rather touch a Spider : But that's a fault may soon be smelled , sir Ajax smells no stronger : [ B ] efore I'll take one with such fault , I'll lie alone yet longer . If she chance to prove a Scold , her tongue will breed my strife , Then I must look to be controlled , and curbed by me Wife : A Scold of women is the worst , she'll force a man to wrong her : Therefore I'll try all humours first , And lie alone no longer . Some men perhaps may wonder , why my mind runs so on Marriage , To him that asks me , I reply , it's for my honest carriage : For live a young man never so chaste , he's counted a Whoremonger : Therefore I'll get a Wife in haste , And lie alone no longer . Although my Wife be none oath best , yet I must be content : I shall as well speed as the rest , which about this actium went : I am not first that matched ill , therefore it is no wonder : I'll keep my resolution still , And lie alone no longer . I trust I shall with one be sped , that does deserve my love : If I with such a Woman wed , I swear by mighty Jove , That ere she any thing should [ ? ] I'll suffer cold and hunger : Though she had scant clothes Idem lie alone no longer . You that my resolution hear judge whither I deserve To have a Wife that love [ ? ] and would my will obser [ we ] Were she a Widow or a [ ? ] and Elder , or a Younger [ ? ] My Wedding should not be [ ? ] [ I'll lie alone ] no long [ er . ] A Bachelors Resolution . OR Have among you now , Widows or Maids , For I come a wooing as Fancy persuades . I must have a Wife , be she Older or Younger , For I cannot , nor will not lie alone any longer . To the tune of , The Blazing Torch . A Bachelor I have been long , and had no mind to marry , But now I find it did me wrong that [ I ] so long did tarry , Therefore I will a wooing ride , there's many married younger , Where shall I go to see [ e ] ke a Bride ? I'll lie alone no longer . So many sins are incident unto a single life , That I all danger to prevent with speed will seek a Wife : If I with Women chance to drink I'm called a Muttonmonger , But now I'll stop their mouths I think And lie alone no longer . O Fate send me a handsome Lass that I can fancy well , For Portion I'll not greatly pass , though Money hears the bell . Love now adays with Gold is bought but I'm not Money-monger . Give me a Wife , though she's worth nought I'll lie alone no longer . Yet if she chance to prove a Slut , a Scold , or else a Whore , That could not choose but be a cut , and v [ e ] xe me very soar , A Slut would make me loath my meat were I half dead with hunger , But I must leave this found conceate , And lie alone no longer . What if she should a Wanton be , and make my forehead ache ? O that would be a grief to me , such wrongs few men will take , For jealousy is of such force , no passion can be stronger , But be she better , be she worse , I'll lie alone no longer . If jealous she shall be of me , that were as great a spite , Then should we seldom quiet be , but quarrel day and night , She'd think my love from her did range though I never meant to wrong her , Yet this shall not my humour change , I'll lie alone no longer . What shall I do to choose a wife in every thing complete ? Should I in searching spend my life , would prove a task to great , No Man can find a Woman so , the older nor the younger , I'll take my chance as others do , And lie alone no longer . Yet will I choose the best I can , Jove send me luck in choosing , And crave the counsel of some man whose counsels worth the using : If she prove good I shall be glad , and vow I'll never wrong her , Yet am resolved good or bad To lie alone no longer . The second Part. To the same tune . I Le be contented with my lot , how ever it befall , Yet if she prove a drunken sot , it'll grieve me worst of all , Then I my self must drink small-beer , and she must drink the stronger , Thought cost me twenty pounds a year , I'll lie alone no longer . This is the only time I know , for Youngmen to get Wives , They say that Maids and Widows now fo [ r ] Husbands daily strives , That [ eref ] over I shall be quickly sped , si [ tO ] h both for Husbands hunger , With any man theyle quickly wed , Theyle lie alone no longer . Be she a widow or a Bawd , I do not greatly pass , A withered Crone whose blo [ oh ] d's decayde , or a young lively Lass : One that is rich , or one that's poor , a feeble , or a stronger : And honest woman , or a whore , I'll lie alone no longer . But yet if I my choice may have a Maid [ s ] hold b [ e ] my wife , I would not be a Widows slave , Idem rather lose my life : If I should wed a Widow old , I had better take a younger , For Widows will not be controlled , Yet I can stay no longer . If she should have a stinking breath I never should abide her , For that to me is worse then death , I had rather touch a Spider : But that's a fault may soon be smelled , sir Ajax smells no stronger : [ B ] efore I'll take one with such fault , I'll lie alone yet longer . If she chance to prove a Scold , her tongue will breed my strife , Then I must look to be controlled , and curbed by me Wife : A Scold of women is the worst , she'll force a man to wrong her : Therefore I'll try all humours first , And lie alone no longer . Some men perhaps may wonder , why my mind runs so on Marriage , To him that asks me , I reply , it's for my honest carriage : For live a young man never so chaste , he's counted a Whoremonger : Therefore I'll get a Wife in haste , And lie alone no longer . Although my Wife be none oath best , yet I must be content : I shall as well speed as the rest , which about this actium went : I am not first that matched ill , therefore it is no wonder : I'll keep my resolution still , And lie alone no longer . I trust I shall with one be sped , that does deserve my love : If I with such a Woman wed , I swear by mighty Jove , That ere she any thing should [ ? ] I'll suffer cold and hunger : Though she had scant clothes Idem lie alone no longer . You that my resolution hear judge whither I deserve To have a Wife that love [ ? ] and would my will obser [ we ] Were she a Widow or a [ ? ] and Elder , or a Younger [ ? ] My Wedding should not be [ ? ] [ I'll lie alone ] no long [ er . ] 