Here begins a pleasant song of a Maiden fair , To purchase her desire , her Coin she did not spare , And she most freely parted with her money To a Youngman , the which she called her dearest Honey . To a pleasant new tune . A LL hail to thee my only sweating , I think this is a happy meeting : I long desired to see my dearest honey , Thy company is better far than money . Kind Mistress I am your debtor , And hang me if I prove a fleeter , I will remain your deer and only honey I love your company , and I love your money . I have five hundred pound , I know it , On thee my sweating I will bestow it , Because I take thee as my dearest honey , Good company is better far than money . It joys my heart to hear your motion , Five hundred pounds is a good portion , I will remain your only sweet and honey , Yet I desire to see this sum of money . Then walk with me to yonder mountain , Where money flows like to a fountain , Thou shalt not want for means my dearest honey Good company is better far than money . Then let us go as thou hast spoken , I'll take thy favour as a token , I love thee as my deer , my sweet , my honey , Thy company is good and so is money . Then let us now no longer tarry , But go unto the Church and marry , Look here is gold and silver store my honey , But company is better far than money . Sweet heart , I freely yield unto it , The Priest and Clerk will quickly do it : Yet there's no haste , my dearest honey , Thou hast my company and I thy money . For money thou shalt have it plenty , If thou lack one pound , I'll fetch thee twenty , Because thou callest me thy dearest honey , Good company is better far than money . O that is spoken very kindly , I know thy mind , I'll fit thee finely , I will continue still thy dearest honey , I love thee well , and so I do thy money . My Boy , I'll have thee of the fashion , It will be for thy commendation . Thou shalt have gallant suits , my dearest honey , And with the bravest thou shalt spend thy money . Sweet heart I want a gallant Gelding , That to my pleasure may be yielding , And with the bravest he , I'll roar and swagger , So long until I cannot go but stagger . The second part , To the s [ ame tO ] une , TO How shalt have what thou wilt require , For to fulfil thy hearts desire , Thou shalt not want for any thing my honey , Good company is better far than money . Now I must here declare my Ditty , To all , both Country , Town , and City , Of a youngman and his deer only honey , And how he spent away his Lasses money . Give room , here comes our new sprung gallant For to devour his wenches talant , He having god the treasure of his honey , He bravely falls to spending of her money . Come Vintner bring's both Sack and Claret , And for the rest I will not spare it , I have a Lass that calls me her deer honey , She loves my company and I love her money . Come on my Blades , be blithe , and merry , We'll have a quart or two of Sherry , Drink round about and I will pledge my honey Because she'alowes me always store of money . Thus he continues in his pleasure , And she repents her self at leisure , Her treasure being wasted on her honey , She wished that she had wisely kept her money . His company she now repenteth , And to some other she relents , Complaining always of her dearest honey , And says that she hath spent away her money . Nay more she says , he stole a Jewel , And for the same she holds him cruel , Her maidenhead departed with her money , Thus was she cozened with her only honey . He gave her earnest on condition , But it is now a great suspicion , That she does now repent her former bargain Her belly is a token of regarding . All you that do delight in pleasure , You see what follows at leisure , This youngman cozened his dearest honey , Thus company does cause the want of money . And thus to end my merry Ditty , Here's many Lasses in Town and City , That do complain likewise of their sweet honey , And say they lost their company and money . All you young Maids , by me be warned , Lest you [ by ] false youngmen be harmed Be careful in the choosing of your honey , Unless you [ l ] ose your maidenheads and money . London , Printed for Henry Gosson . Finis . Here begins a pleasant song of a Maiden fair , To purchase her desire , her Coin she did not spare , And she most freely parted with her money To a Youngman , the which she called her dearest Honey . To a pleasant new tune . A LL hail to thee my only sweating , I think this is a happy meeting : I long desired to see my dearest honey , Thy company is better far than money . Kind Mistress I am your debtor , And hang me if I prove a fleeter , I will remain your deer and only honey I love your company , and I love your money . I have five hundred pound , I know it , On thee my sweating I will bestow it , Because I take thee as my dearest honey , Good company is better far than money . It joys my heart to hear your motion , Five hundred pounds is a good portion , I will remain your only sweet and honey , Yet I desire to see this sum of money . Then walk with me to yonder mountain , Where money flows like to a fountain , Thou shalt not want for means my dearest honey Good company is better far than money . Then let us go as thou hast spoken , I'll take thy favour as a token , I love thee as my deer , my sweet , my honey , Thy company is good and so is money . Then let us now no longer tarry , But go unto the Church and marry , Look here is gold and silver store my honey , But company is better far than money . Sweet heart , I freely yield unto it , The Priest and Clerk will quickly do it : Yet there's no haste , my dearest honey , Thou hast my company and I thy money . For money thou shalt have it plenty , If thou lack one pound , I'll fetch thee twenty , Because thou callest me thy dearest honey , Good company is better far than money . O that is spoken very kindly , I know thy mind , I'll fit thee finely , I will continue still thy dearest honey , I love thee well , and so I do thy money . My Boy , I'll have thee of the fashion , It will be for thy commendation . Thou shalt have gallant suits , my dearest honey , And with the bravest thou shalt spend thy money . Sweet heart I want a gallant Gelding , That to my pleasure may be yielding , And with the bravest he , I'll roar and swagger , So long until I cannot go but stagger . The second part , To the s [ ame tO ] une , TO How shalt have what thou wilt require , For to fulfil thy hearts desire , Thou shalt not want for any thing my honey , Good company is better far than money . Now I must here declare my Ditty , To all , both Country , Town , and City , Of a youngman and his deer only honey , And how he spent away his Lasses money . Give room , here comes our new sprung gallant For to devour his wenches talant , He having god the treasure of his honey , He bravely falls to spending of her money . Come Vintner bring's both Sack and Claret , And for the rest I will not spare it , I have a Lass that calls me her deer honey , She loves my company and I love her money . Come on my Blades , be blithe , and merry , We'll have a quart or two of Sherry , Drink round about and I will pledge my honey Because she'alowes me always store of money . Thus he continues in his pleasure , And she repents her self at leisure , Her treasure being wasted on her honey , She wished that she had wisely kept her money . His company she now repenteth , And to some other she relents , Complaining always of her dearest honey , And says that she hath spent away her money . Nay more she says , he stole a Jewel , And for the same she holds him cruel , Her maidenhead departed with her money , Thus was she cozened with her only honey . He gave her earnest on condition , But it is now a great suspicion , That she does now repent her former bargain Her belly is a token of regarding . All you that do delight in pleasure , You see what follows at leisure , This youngman cozened his dearest honey , Thus company does cause the want of money . And thus to end my merry Ditty , Here's many Lasses in Town and City , That do complain likewise of their sweet honey , And say they lost their company and money . All you young Maids , by me be warned , Lest you [ by ] false youngmen be harmed Be careful in the choosing of your honey , Unless you [ l ] ose your maidenheads and money . London , Printed for Henry Gosson . Finis . 