And excellent Ditty , both merry and witty , Expressing the love of the Youths of the City , Who take delight , as my Song does say , Betimes in the morning to fetch home May . To a pleasant new tune , or the two lovely Lovers . A Wake my own deer sweating , why dost thou sleep so long ; The Sun is near up rising , do not thy self such wrong , Upon this pleasing morning , swiftly let's take our way With joy to welcome in , the merry month of May . I see the day star twinkling , rising in the East , Which tells us that Aurora , hath left her sluggish rest , Then rise up my own Honey , and let us take our way , With joy to welcome in , the merry month of May . The Flowers are neat and dainty , which do us all invite , To walk into the Meadows , to give our hearts delight : Under the rare green shadows , we may sport and play , With joy to welcome in , the merry month of May . The birds are sweetly singing , upon the greenwood trees , Down in the Meadows may we , walk up to the knees , In Primrose and sweet Dazies , with Cowslips neat and gay , Then come my only sweating , let us go gather May . The Nightingale most pleasing , chants forth her merry strain , Then who would stay at home , that might such pleasure gain . The youths of this fair City , trimmed in their best array . Are marching forth this morning , with joy to gather May . With Drums , with Fifes , and trum-pets , they are bravely graced , With Muskets in the forefront , which they have rarely placed , They all went on in pleasure ; attired neat and gay , And every young man had his Love , that goes to gather May . Roger with his Susan , and Robert his fair Jane , Richard with his sweet heart , to be lag doe disdain , Sweet William and fair Nancy , in their apparel gay , Is early gone this morning , abroad to gather May . John Jinkin with his Gilian , Tom with Penelope , And Humphrey with sweet Prudence why then sweet may not we , As well as all these Lovers , in our apparel gay . Upon this merry morning , walk forth to fetch home May . The second part . To the same tune . TO Here's Randall with his Sara , marching hand in hand , Rowland and sweet Maudlin , that yields to his demand , There's Arthur and sweet Margaret , which does her Love obey , Is early gone this morning , abroad to gather May . Nicholas with his Betty , and Francis with fair Marry , Martin with Rebecca , and Dorothy with Harry , Elis with his Katherine , were gone ere break of day , In their apparel neatly , to fetch home gentle May . Edward with sweet Jone , and Lucres with Valentine , James with his sweetheart Alce , they must have Cream and Wine These Lovers march in order , While Music sweet does play ; With songs and pleasant Ditties , about to gather May . This is the month of pleasure , and Aprils watery showers , Hath fallen in comely measure , to increase the pleasing flowers , That Lovers gather early , to make them Posies gay , Composed of sundry colours within the month of May . Margery my sweating , thy Silvester does call , I feign would be this morning , the foremost of them all . I see Apollo's splendour , darts from the East most gay , To grace these comely Lovers , to fetch home lovely May . The Blackbird sings most sweetly , so does the Nightingale , The Fawns play in the high woods , the Hare runs over the Dales , The bleating Lambs most sweetly , delight to sport and play , The small birds sweetly warble , to welcome pleasant May . Sweet Syllabub we'll have Love , with Cakes and Pudding-pies , With Cream bestrewed with Sugar if that my Madge will rise . To hear the Cuckoo sing sweet , and see her feathers grey , Who with her notes most kindly , does welcome in sweet May . Strike up thy Pipe good Piper , I see my Love does come , Much like the Queen of beauty , her splendour lights the room , Come , come , my gentle sweating , with all the speed we may , Lets walk to the green Meadows to gather pleasant May . Printed at London for John Grismand . FINIS . L . M.An excellent Ditty , both merry and witty , Expressing the love of the Youths of the City , Who take delight , as my Song does say , Betimes in the morning to fetch home May . To a pleasant new tune , or the two lovely Lovers . A Wake my own deer sweating , why dost thou sleep so long ; The Sun is near up rising , do not thy self such wrong , Upon this pleasing morning , swiftly let's take our way With joy to welcome in , the merry month of May . I see the day star twinkling , rising in the East , Which tells us that Aurora , hath left her sluggish rest , Then rise up my own Honey , and let us take our way , With joy to welcome in , the merry month of May . The Flowers are neat and dainty , which do us all invite , To walk into the Meadows , to give our hearts delight : Under the rare green shadows , we may sport and play , With joy to welcome in , the merry month of May . The birds are sweetly singing , upon the greenwood trees , Down in the Meadows may we , walk up to the knees , In Primrose and sweet Dazies , with Cowslips neat and gay , Then come my only sweating , let us go gather May . The Nightingale most pleasing , chants forth her merry strain , Then who would stay at home , that might such pleasure gain . The youths of this fair City , trimmed in their best array . Are marching forth this morning , with joy to gather May . With Drums , with Fifes , and trum-pets , they are bravely graced , With Muskets in the forefront , which they have rarely placed , They all went on in pleasure ; attired neat and gay , And every young man had his Love , that goes to gather May . Roger with his Susan , and Robert his fair Jane , Richard with his sweet heart , to be lag doe disdain , Sweet William and fair Nancy , in their apparel gay , Is early gone this morning , abroad to gather May . John Jinkin with his Gilian , Tom with Penelope , And Humphrey with sweet Prudence why then sweet may not we , As well as all these Lovers , in our apparel gay . Upon this merry morning , walk forth to fetch home May . The second part . To the same tune . TO Here's Randall with his Sara , marching hand in hand , Rowland and sweet Maudlin , that yields to his demand , There's Arthur and sweet Margaret , which does her Love obey , Is early gone this morning , abroad to gather May . Nicholas with his Betty , and Francis with fair Marry , Martin with Rebecca , and Dorothy with Harry , Elis with his Katherine , were gone ere break of day , In their apparel neatly , to fetch home gentle May . Edward with sweet Jone , and Lucres with Valentine , James with his sweetheart Alce , they must have Cream and Wine These Lovers march in order , While Music sweet does play ; With songs and pleasant Ditties , about to gather May . This is the month of pleasure , and Aprils watery showers , Hath fallen in comely measure , to increase the pleasing flowers , That Lovers gather early , to make them Posies gay , Composed of sundry colours within the month of May . Margery my sweating , thy Silvester does call , I feign would be this morning , the foremost of them all . I see Apollo's splendour , darts from the East most gay , To grace these comely Lovers , to fetch home lovely May . The Blackbird sings most sweetly , so does the Nightingale , The Fawns play in the high woods , the Hare runs over the Dales , The bleating Lambs most sweetly , delight to sport and play , The small birds sweetly warble , to welcome pleasant May . Sweet Syllabub we'll have Love , with Cakes and Pudding-pies , With Cream bestrewed with Sugar if that my Madge will rise . To hear the Cuckoo sing sweet , and see her feathers grey , Who with her notes most kindly , does welcome in sweet May . Strike up thy Pipe good Piper , I see my Love does come , Much like the Queen of beauty , her splendour lights the room , Come , come , my gentle sweating , with all the speed we may , Lets walk to the green Meadows to gather pleasant May . Printed at London for John Grismand . FINIS . L.M. 