A Maidens Lamentation for a Bedfellow . Or , I can , nor will no longer lie alone . As it hath been often sung at the Court . To the tune of , I will give thee kisses one , two or three C And any Man tell what I ail : Because I look so weak , so wan , so pale : Sighing to the walls I make my moan , I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Why do I breath upon the ground , Where no comfort alack can be found ? I know not to whom to make my moan , That I may no longer lie alone . Was ever Maid so much withstood , When she but complains for Youngmen's good ? This my cruel friends hath me orethrowne : I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Long have I sought men love to obtain , Yet still am I repaid with deep disdain : I would my heart to some kind Man were known , I can , nor will no longer lie alone . What though my Parents strive to procure That I should a Maiden still endure ? Do they what they will , I must have one , I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Why should hard hearted Men say nay , When it does belong to them to pray ? O , I would never wish to have them gone Cause I can no longer lie alone , Some Maids are coy because they are fair , And some likewise being a Rich-mans Heir : Had I both these gifts I would be coy to none : I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Did Venus her Son , God Cupid know This my pining pain , and endless woe , They would melt their hearts , though as hard as stone I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Some Maids are coy , and proud withal , When alas their beauty is but small : While I live I'll never be coy to none , Because I will no longer lie alone . But alas the Gods that belong to love Seek not to redress , nor yet remove This , that makes my heart to melt with moan : I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Therefore I'll seek each private part , Till I chance to find a constant heart , That will ease my mind , with woe oregrowne : I can , nor will no longer lie alone , You Maids that ever did feel such woes , Pity her whose grief to height thus grows : Many a brinish tear on the earth I have sown : I can , nor will no longer lie alone . And Youngmen all that see my case , Take some pity on my Maiden face : Rid me of my cares and griefs each one : And let me now no longer lie alone . FINIS . The men comfortable Answer . To the same tune . A Lack fair Maid , make no such woe , On thy cheeks so pale I'll make two Roses grow Now I know your grief I'll ease your moan : Thou shalt not any longer lie alone . Do not despair , for men are kind , Love he can not see , for he is blind , Deaf he is likewise as any stone : Then come to me my deer , lie not alone . Young men do want but that you [ h ] have This nought but your self that I [ do ] crave : You take delight to hear us sighs and groan , And care not if we always lie alone . You say you love , yet still seem coy , Cause you know you are a Youngman's Joy : Suitors you have store , abroad , and at home , And yet you say you're forced to lie alone . What if your Friends do froward prove : Yet the nothing like to faithful Love : Break but forth the Cage , and thou art flown , And then you never more shall lie alone . If we do sue , and woe with tears You are either deaf , or stop your ears : Slightly you regard a Lovers moan , And say , you take delight to lie alone . Beauty does cause you to look strange : This your wealth that makes your mind to change Yet your answers this , that you have none : And never regard poor Men that lie alone . Cupid hath strook my love sick heart With a Shaft as keen as Phebus dart : Loves tide is at the height , and overflown : I can not any longer lie alone . Beauty keeps Court upon thy brow , Let not c [ oy dis ] dame found sense allow : Give me but the flesh , and keep the bone For such as love to ( live and ) lie alone . Jove from the skies ascended here , For the love of one he held most dear : If Love did fetch the Gods from heavens throne How can I but a Man , still lie alone ? Within my breast a heart does lie Spotless as the Sun in clearest sky : Dear , let sorrows blasts be overblown : Let thou and I no longer lie alone . Many have felt like pains as I , A true heart never is known before you try : Then ( dearest ) cease to weep , or make such moan : Thou shalt not any longer lie alone . Blame not all men , if some be unkind , Though some be bad , yet al's not of one mind : Do not think our hearts are [ made ] of stone , To let such pretty Creatures [ lie all ] one . FINIS . Printed for John White . A Maidens Lamentation for a Bedfellow . Or , I can , nor will no longer lie alone . As it hath been often sung at the Court . To the tune of , I will give thee kisses one , two or three C And any Man tell what I ail : Because I look so weak , so wan , so pale : Sighing to the walls I make my moan , I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Why do I breath upon the ground , Where no comfort alack can be found ? I know not to whom to make my moan , That I may no longer lie alone . Was ever Maid so much withstood , When she but complains for Youngmen's good ? This my cruel friends hath me orethrowne : I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Long have I sought men love to obtain , Yet still am I repaid with deep disdain : I would my heart to some kind Man were known , I can , nor will no longer lie alone . What though my Parents strive to procure That I should a Maiden still endure ? Do they what they will , I must have one , I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Why should hard hearted Men say nay , When it does belong to them to pray ? O , I would never wish to have them gone Cause I can no longer lie alone , Some Maids are coy because they are fair , And some likewise being a Rich-mans Heir : Had I both these gifts I would be coy to none : I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Did Venus her Son , God Cupid know This my pining pain , and endless woe , They would melt their hearts , though as hard as stone I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Some Maids are coy , and proud withal , When alas their beauty is but small : While I live I'll never be coy to none , Because I will no longer lie alone . But alas the Gods that belong to love Seek not to redress , nor yet remove This , that makes my heart to melt with moan : I can , nor will no longer lie alone . Therefore I'll seek each private part , Till I chance to find a constant heart , That will ease my mind , with woe oregrowne : I can , nor will no longer lie alone , You Maids that ever did feel such woes , Pity her whose grief to height thus grows : Many a brinish tear on the earth I have sown : I can , nor will no longer lie alone . And Youngmen all that see my case , Take some pity on my Maiden face : Rid me of my cares and griefs each one : And let me now no longer lie alone . FINIS . The men comfortable Answer . To the same tune . A Lack fair Maid , make no such woe , On thy cheeks so pale I'll make two Roses grow Now I know your grief I'll ease your moan : Thou shalt not any longer lie alone . Do not despair , for men are kind , Love he can not see , for he is blind , Deaf he is likewise as any stone : Then come to me my deer , lie not alone . Young men do want but that you [ h ] have This nought but your self that I [ do ] crave : You take delight to hear us sighs and groan , And care not if we always lie alone . You say you love , yet still seem coy , Cause you know you are a Youngman's Joy : Suitors you have store , abroad , and at home , And yet you say you're forced to lie alone . What if your Friends do froward prove : Yet the nothing like to faithful Love : Break but forth the Cage , and thou art flown , And then you never more shall lie alone . If we do sue , and woe with tears You are either deaf , or stop your ears : Slightly you regard a Lovers moan , And say , you take delight to lie alone . Beauty does cause you to look strange : This your wealth that makes your mind to change Yet your answers this , that you have none : And never regard poor Men that lie alone . Cupid hath strook my love sick heart With a Shaft as keen as Phebus dart : Loves tide is at the height , and overflown : I can not any longer lie alone . Beauty keeps Court upon thy brow , Let not c [ oy dis ] dame found sense allow : Give me but the flesh , and keep the bone For such as love to ( live and ) lie alone . Jove from the skies ascended here , For the love of one he held most dear : If Love did fetch the Gods from heavens throne How can I but a Man , still lie alone ? Within my breast a heart does lie Spotless as the Sun in clearest sky : Dear , let sorrows blasts be overblown : Let thou and I no longer lie alone . Many have felt like pains as I , A true heart never is known before you try : Then ( dearest ) cease to weep , or make such moan : Thou shalt not any longer lie alone . Blame not all men , if some be unkind , Though some be bad , yet al's not of one mind : Do not think our hearts are [ made ] of stone , To let such pretty Creatures [ lie all ] one . FINIS . Printed for John White . 