A most delicate , pleasant , amorous , new Song , made by a Gentleman that enjoys his Love , showing the worth and happi - ness of Content , and the effects of love , called , All Lovers Joy . To the tune of New Paradise . S King , Oh sing , the day is clear . sad misfortunes are estranged , Kinder Planets rule the Sphere , what was ill , to good is changed : My more froward haps remove , And I now live where I love . No more joy to man can happen , then a creature so divine , As my love , Each part is shapen like to Venus in her prime , No delight so true does prove , As the sweet contents of love . Cynthya , when she kissed Endimion , upon towering Latmos mount , By each free and wise opinion , was not of so deer account . In no age was known to move , Fairer then my fairest Love . Hellen in those wrinkled days , was accounted beauty's mirror , My sweet Ladies glistering rays , now approve that Ages error . Hellen far her self's above , Never lived a fairer Love . Had Paris , when from Troy he parted , seen in Ida my rich Fleece , Spartas Queen had not orestarted , neither her true Lord nor Greece . Paris never had crossed the flood , To this day fair Troy had stood . Jason left his native Greece , and unto Cholchis toiling went . At his return , his Golden Fleece equaled not this ornament : Ancient Authors do approve Mine the Queen of truest love , The Second Part. To the same Tune . P Rincely Theseus never knew , nor the wandering Prince of Troy , A beauty so divine and true , all their times could not enjoy . All their fortune's mine is above , To enjoy so true a Love . Happier I then tongue can utter , to possess so fair a Fair , Every sense for joy does mutter , to my joys none can compare : Sweeter pleasures cannot move , Then to live where one does love . Powerful love , the world's knight Marshal , I will sacrifice to thee , My true honours shall be unpartial , that thou shalt-receive from me . All the gods thou art above , Let me still live where I love . None does win a happier prize then content ( in mine opinion ) All the censurers of the wise , grant it is the best dominion : For the wisest does approve , Kings can but live where they love . Silly Swains that pipe on banks , ( turned poor Shepherds for their living ) Give to love as many thanks , as in Court great Lords are giving . Trust , content does ever move , In that place where rests love . Strangest god of Homers number , I will ever thee adore , Thou art only earth's great wonder Cupid , I thy aid implore . As to serve thee still I strove , Grant me still life where I love . Pleasure now such scope possesses , all my joy is in the prime , No sad thought my mind opresseth , comfort is so truly mine . All delights do in me move , Because I live where I love . Come , Oh come and sing with me , at my Feasts and Banquetings Lovers all , that speeders be , come rejoice like petty kings : All our songs shall still approve , All content does live with love . Finis . Printed at London for H. G . A most delicate , pleasant , amorous , new Song , made by a Gentleman that enjoys his Love , showing the worth and happi - ness of Content , and the effects of love , called , All Lovers Joy . To the tune of New Paradise . S King , Oh sing , the day is clear . sad misfortunes are estranged , Kinder Planets rule the Sphere , what was ill , to good is changed : My more froward haps remove , And I now live where I love . No more joy to man can happen , then a creature so divine , As my love , Each part is shapen like to Venus in her prime , No delight so true does prove , As the sweet contents of love . Cynthya , when she kissed Endimion , upon towering Latmos mount , By each free and wise opinion , was not of so deer account . In no age was known to move , Fairer then my fairest Love . Hellen in those wrinkled days , was accounted beauty's mirror , My sweet Ladies glistering rays , now approve that Ages error . Hellen far her self's above , Never lived a fairer Love . Had Paris , when from Troy he parted , seen in Ida my rich Fleece , Spartas Queen had not orestarted , neither her true Lord nor Greece . Paris never had crossed the flood , To this day fair Troy had stood . Jason left his native Greece , and unto Cholchis toiling went . At his return , his Golden Fleece equaled not this ornament : Ancient Authors do approve Mine the Queen of truest love , The Second Part. To the same Tune . P Rincely Theseus never knew , nor the wandering Prince of Troy , A beauty so divine and true , all their times could not enjoy . All their fortune's mine is above , To enjoy so true a Love . Happier I then tongue can utter , to possess so fair a Fair , Every sense for joy does mutter , to my joys none can compare : Sweeter pleasures cannot move , Then to live where one does love . Powerful love , the world's knight Marshal , I will sacrifice to thee , My true honours shall be unpartial , that thou shalt-receive from me . All the gods thou art above , Let me still live where I love . None does win a happier prize then content ( in mine opinion ) All the censurers of the wise , grant it is the best dominion : For the wisest does approve , Kings can but live where they love . Silly Swains that pipe on banks , ( turned poor Shepherds for their living ) Give to love as many thanks , as in Court great Lords are giving . Trust , content does ever move , In that place where rests love . Strangest god of Homers number , I will ever thee adore , Thou art only earth's great wonder Cupid , I thy aid implore . As to serve thee still I strove , Grant me still life where I love . Pleasure now such scope possesses , all my joy is in the prime , No sad thought my mind opresseth , comfort is so truly mine . All delights do in me move , Because I live where I love . Come , Oh come and sing with me , at my Feasts and Banquetings Lovers all , that speeders be , come rejoice like petty kings : All our songs shall still approve , All content does live with love . Finis . Printed at London for H. G. 