News from the Towerhill : OR , A gentle warning to Peg and Kate , To walk no more abroad so late . To the tune of the North country Lass . A Pretty jest I'll tell , which was performed of late , Let Lasses all in general , be warned by Peg and Kate . These Lasses both do dwell , near Algate at this day , A use they had ith night to gad , abroad as I herd say . To meet with some young men on them to show affection , Which use they still on Towerhill did keep by due direction . But now give heed a while , and mark how they were served , Would all were so that thus do go then men might be preserved . From these deluding baits , which by the way do catch them Let all young men be careful then , and mark how one did match them . As they walked forth one night , as it their custom still , A youngman kind did chance to find them upon Towerhill . And finding them so free , and easy to go down , He god them both they were not loath with him to Greenewich Town . A pair of Oars he took , and thither went in haste , While all that night they had delight , but mark what after past . He brought them up next day , and at the Postern gate , Into the Ship they all did skip , at night when it was late . Where they to supper had all dainties they could wish , Young Rabbets fried they bade provide and rost Beef in a dish . And Lamb they had beside , with Wine and Sugar store , And music sweet which made [ tO ] he street to muse how they did roar . At last the reckoning came to two and twentie shilling , The Lad was wise and did devise to make them pay for billing . The second part , To the same tune . S Oh out of doors he stepped , and made a fine excuse , The Lasses still their Wine did fill as it their former use . But when they long had stayed , and the Lad came no more , The Vintner came of them to claim money to clear the score . They said they had no money , to pay for what was drawn , Their Aprons they until next day and Ruffs would leave in pawn . The Vintner would have none , but swore he would be paid Ere they did pass , or else alas in prison they must be stayed . All night they tarried there , ith morning Peg did send To her Mother deer , who came to her as did become a friend . Her Husband came with her , and he did pass his word , At a certain day the shot to pay which they that night had scored . And so they were dismissed , well served I protest : If all base whores might pay such scores then men might pass in rest . The youngman I commend , and wish that others would Him imitate then Peg and Kate would be no more so bold . It is a great abuse , in London at this day , Now in the street many nightly meet such wenches on the way . Which causeth many a Man , that would go home in quiet , Upon such queans to spend his means , in filthiness and riot . London Printed for E.B. Finis . M . P.Newes from the Towerhill : OR , A gentle warning to Peg and Kate , To walk no more abroad so late . To the tune of the North country Lass . A Pretty jest I'll tell , which was performed of late , Let Lasses all in general , be warned by Peg and Kate . These Lasses both do dwell , near Algate at this day , A use they had ith night to gad , abroad as I herd say . To meet with some young men on them to show affection , Which use they still on Towerhill did keep by due direction . But now give heed a while , and mark how they were served , Would all were so that thus do go then men might be preserved . From these deluding baits , which by the way do catch them Let all young men be careful then , and mark how one did match them . As they walked forth one night , as it their custom still , A youngman kind did chance to find them upon Towerhill . And finding them so free , and easy to go down , He god them both they were not loath with him to Greenewich Town . A pair of Oars he took , and thither went in haste , While all that night they had delight , but mark what after past . He brought them up next day , and at the Postern gate , Into the Ship they all did skip , at night when it was late . Where they to supper had all dainties they could wish , Young Rabbets fried they bade provide and rost Beef in a dish . And Lamb they had beside , with Wine and Sugar store , And music sweet which made [ tO ] he street to muse how they did roar . At last the reckoning came to two and twentie shilling , The Lad was wise and did devise to make them pay for billing . The second part , To the same tune . S Oh out of doors he stepped , and made a fine excuse , The Lasses still their Wine did fill as it their former use . But when they long had stayed , and the Lad came no more , The Vintner came of them to claim money to clear the score . They said they had no money , to pay for what was drawn , Their Aprons they until next day and Ruffs would leave in pawn . The Vintner would have none , but swore he would be paid Ere they did pass , or else alas in prison they must be stayed . All night they tarried there , ith morning Peg did send To her Mother deer , who came to her as did become a friend . Her Husband came with her , and he did pass his word , At a certain day the shot to pay which they that night had scored . And so they were dismissed , well served I protest : If all base whores might pay such scores then men might pass in rest . The youngman I commend , and wish that others would Him imitate then Peg and Kate would be no more so bold . It is a great abuse , in London at this day , Now in the street many nightly meet such wenches on the way . Which causeth many a Man , that would go home in quiet , Upon such queans to spend his means , in filthiness and riot . London Printed for E.B. Finis . M.P. 