A delicate new Song , Entitled , Sweetheart , I love thee . To the tune of , See the building . S Weet-heart I love thee And deem no Lass above thee in all this City : Sweetheart I woo thee , And vow I'll never do thee any harm for pity : Sweetheart tell me thy father's name , and where he lives , and what he gives With you his Daughter , who is so fair a Dame : For it was to seek a wife that I to London came . Good sir forgo me , My friends will not bestow me upon a Clown . I scorn to have one , Unless he be a brave one , who lives in Town : I'll have one that comes from Court , that swears and swaggers , until he staggers , That spends his means and is not sorry fored , O such a lively Lad will show a Lass good sport . Sweetheart be milder , I never embraced a wilder , in all my life . Sweetheart content thee , Thou shalt no whit repent thee , to be my wife : I have five pounds a year , a brace of Geldings , and sumptuous buildings For thee and I to fit and make good cheer , If thou wilt be my Honey , my Dove , my Duck , my Dear . A pox take your riches , It seems by your great breeches , from Court you came not : I scorn such Asses , Do court your Country Lasses , for yours I am not : Farewell my Coridon , farewell , for I see now , man , thou art some Plowman , Thy very looks the same to me do tell , Go kiss thy bouncing Kate , and clip thy bonny Nell . My suit is ended And I no whit offended at thy disdain , Ale beware me , How ever I ensnare me with such again : Farewell , then , I scorn thy disdain , away be trudging : and fear no grudging : For I'll go woo some more honest and plain : For I respect true love , and prize it above all gain . The second part , to the same tune . C City Dames , attend you , With counsel I'll befriend you , if you'll be witty : For now I find it , Though one I did not mind it , more was the pity : A Countryman excels a Courtier , though not for bravery , nor yet for knavery , But if he'll have thee , do him not deny , For any smooth-tongued Courtiers flattery . I once was wooed , And well beloved of a Countryman : But I refused him , Nay more with words abused him , thus coy Dams can With flouting words squib the simple , that come to woo them , with love to prove them , Yet those Dams will show them to be so nice and coy , And count their loves but as and idle toy . A Merchant's Daughter , Her mind still runneth after some Squire or Knight : Shee'l have a Courtier , for to support her , it's a goodly sighed , To see a man that struts in the fashion , augments loves fire , And still desire to have a neat spruce Lad , To strut before them , as he were Antic mad . So they have a Gallant , they never respect their talon , nor stand for money : If he be a fine one , Yea or a witty-tongued one , he shall be their Honey : Proud City Dams are grown so dainty , my self do know it , of late did show it , But now beshrew it , that ere I seemed so coy To that honest Country man , that once held me his joy . Thus she lamented , Her mind was discontented , and deeply vexed : Her joys exiled , The Gallant her beguiled , which her perplexed With tears she then did wail her and then repent , she never lamented , But discontented that man with proud disdain , And fighting wished she might his love obtain . FINIS . Printed at London for H . G.A delicate new Song , Entitled , Sweetheart , I love thee . To the tune of , See the building . S Weet-heart I love thee And deem no Lass above thee in all this City : Sweetheart I woo thee , And vow I'll never do thee any harm for pity : Sweetheart tell me thy father's name , and where he lives , and what he gives With you his Daughter , who is so fair a Dame : For it was to seek a wife that I to London came . Good sir forgo me , My friends will not bestow me upon a Clown . I scorn to have one , Unless he be a brave one , who lives in Town : I'll have one that comes from Court , that swears and swaggers , until he staggers , That spends his means and is not sorry fored , O such a lively Lad will show a Lass good sport . Sweetheart be milder , I never embraced a wilder , in all my life . Sweetheart content thee , Thou shalt no whit repent thee , to be my wife : I have five pounds a year , a brace of Geldings , and sumptuous buildings For thee and I to fit and make good cheer , If thou wilt be my Honey , my Dove , my Duck , my Dear . A pox take your riches , It seems by your great breeches , from Court you came not : I scorn such Asses , Do court your Country Lasses , for yours I am not : Farewell my Coridon , farewell , for I see now , man , thou art some Plowman , Thy very looks the same to me do tell , Go kiss thy bouncing Kate , and clip thy bonny Nell . My suit is ended And I no whit offended at thy disdain , Ale beware me , How ever I ensnare me with such again : Farewell , then , I scorn thy disdain , away be trudging : and fear no grudging : For I'll go woo some more honest and plain : For I respect true love , and prize it above all gain . The second part , to the same tune . C City Dames , attend you , With counsel I'll befriend you , if you'll be witty : For now I find it , Though one I did not mind it , more was the pity : A Countryman excels a Courtier , though not for bravery , nor yet for knavery , But if he'll have thee , do him not deny , For any smooth-tongued Courtiers flattery . I once was wooed , And well beloved of a Countryman : But I refused him , Nay more with words abused him , thus coy Dams can With flouting words squib the simple , that come to woo them , with love to prove them , Yet those Dams will show them to be so nice and coy , And count their loves but as and idle toy . A Merchant's Daughter , Her mind still runneth after some Squire or Knight : Shee'l have a Courtier , for to support her , it's a goodly sighed , To see a man that struts in the fashion , augments loves fire , And still desire to have a neat spruce Lad , To strut before them , as he were Antic mad . So they have a Gallant , they never respect their talon , nor stand for money : If he be a fine one , Yea or a witty-tongued one , he shall be their Honey : Proud City Dams are grown so dainty , my self do know it , of late did show it , But now beshrew it , that ere I seemed so coy To that honest Country man , that once held me his joy . Thus she lamented , Her mind was discontented , and deeply vexed : Her joys exiled , The Gallant her beguiled , which her perplexed With tears she then did wail her and then repent , she never lamented , But discontented that man with proud disdain , And fighting wished she might his love obtain . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. 