Foure pence half penny Farthing : OR , A Woman will have the Odds . To the tune of Bessy Bell , or a Health to Betty . O Ne Morning bright , ( for my delight ) Into the Fields I walked , There did I see A Lad , and he with a fair Maiden talked . It seemed to me , they could not agree , About some pretty bargain , He offered a groat , But still her note was foure pence half penny farthing . Whats that thought I , that he would buy at such a little valve , And as much I mused Wherefore he used that sum of which I tell you , The price was small , but that's not all . The rest is worth regarding , for nothing she , would do , till he , gave foure pence half penny farthing . Quoth he fair Maid , let me persuade , you to unfold a reason , Why you request , Above all the rest that price now at this season , Quoth she , good Sir , I do prefer , My humour , before the bargain : by all the gods , I'll have the ods , just foure pence half penny farthing . I made and oath , which I am loath to violate , I tell you . Thought be more worth , If ' t'were set forth the Jewel which I tell you , The number three , best liketh me , Therefore I ask according , three pieces of you , as it's my endue , that's foure pence half penny farthing . When this young Lad , received had , to his demand , and answer : He laughed outright , As well he might , for he , nor his great Grandser , The like never herd , it well appeared , She knew how to make her bargain . he drew his purse , and did disburse , just foure pence half penny farthing . When he had paid , the pretty Maid . and gave what she desired , To have the same , For which he came , he eagerly required , But ere they could , do what they would , I ( who had unaware been , and herd and seen , what passed between , for foure pence half penny farthing . The second part , To the same tune . U Unto them stepped , by which I kept the youngster from his pleasure , The best ont'was , The witty Lass . before had god his Treasure , She swore to me , that never she , Would have performed the bargain , her meaning was , to make him and Ass , for foure pence half penny farthing . And truly I , think verily , in that she did dissemble : Poor Fellow he , At sighed of me , began to quake and tremble . His sword I found , upon the ground , With which I did reward him , with a knock or twaine , it all his gain , for foure pence half penny farthing . When I had beat him with's own weapon , and might have run him thorough , To ' that Alehouse we , Did go all three , to drink away all sorrow . The honest Lass , most willing was , To call her whole reward in . and freely spent , with merriment , her foure pence half penny farthing . And he likewise , was not precise , but , ( as it seemed ) willing , To call for drink , As much I think as came unto a shilling . I would have paid but he denayed , And thus I god by'th bargain , good sport and drink , which makes me think of foure pence half penny farthing . But ere they went , I , to prevent their meeting again together , Sent her away , And made him stay , I'm sure he met not with her . If she be nought , ased may be thought , Jove send her a Whores rewarding , but good or bad , she gulled the Lad of foure pence half penny farthing . The to'ther day , upon the way , it was my chance to meet her . She blushed read , And nothing said , but I began to greet her . Now now sweet Lass , can you thus pass By me without regarding . though you have forgotten , yet I have not . the foure pence half penny farthing . Kind Sir ( quoth she ) I well do see , you have not it forgotten , Quoth I , I protest , This may be a Jest , when we are dead and rotten , She whent her way , and since that day , I thought it might be a rare thing : to cause this Jest , thus to be expressed of foure pence half penny farthing . Printed at London for C.W. FINIS . M . P.Foure pence half penny Farthing : OR , A Woman will have the Odds . To the tune of Bessy Bell , or a Health to Betty . O Ne Morning bright , ( for my delight ) Into the Fields I walked , There did I see A Lad , and he with a fair Maiden talked . It seemed to me , they could not agree , About some pretty bargain , He offered a groat , But still her note was foure pence half penny farthing . Whats that thought I , that he would buy at such a little valve , And as much I mused Wherefore he used that sum of which I tell you , The price was small , but that's not all . The rest is worth regarding , for nothing she , would do , till he , gave foure pence half penny farthing . Quoth he fair Maid , let me persuade , you to unfold a reason , Why you request , Above all the rest that price now at this season , Quoth she , good Sir , I do prefer , My humour , before the bargain : by all the gods , I'll have the ods , just foure pence half penny farthing . I made and oath , which I am loath to violate , I tell you . Thought be more worth , If ' t'were set forth the Jewel which I tell you , The number three , best liketh me , Therefore I ask according , three pieces of you , as it's my endue , that's foure pence half penny farthing . When this young Lad , received had , to his demand , and answer : He laughed outright , As well he might , for he , nor his great Grandser , The like never herd , it well appeared , She knew how to make her bargain . he drew his purse , and did disburse , just foure pence half penny farthing . When he had paid , the pretty Maid . and gave what she desired , To have the same , For which he came , he eagerly required , But ere they could , do what they would , I ( who had unaware been , and herd and seen , what passed between , for foure pence half penny farthing . The second part , To the same tune . U Unto them stepped , by which I kept the youngster from his pleasure , The best ont'was , The witty Lass . before had god his Treasure , She swore to me , that never she , Would have performed the bargain , her meaning was , to make him and Ass , for foure pence half penny farthing . And truly I , think verily , in that she did dissemble : Poor Fellow he , At sighed of me , began to quake and tremble . His sword I found , upon the ground , With which I did reward him , with a knock or twaine , it all his gain , for foure pence half penny farthing . When I had beat him with's own weapon , and might have run him thorough , To ' that Alehouse we , Did go all three , to drink away all sorrow . The honest Lass , most willing was , To call her whole reward in . and freely spent , with merriment , her foure pence half penny farthing . And he likewise , was not precise , but , ( as it seemed ) willing , To call for drink , As much I think as came unto a shilling . I would have paid but he denayed , And thus I god by'th bargain , good sport and drink , which makes me think of foure pence half penny farthing . But ere they went , I , to prevent their meeting again together , Sent her away , And made him stay , I'm sure he met not with her . If she be nought , ased may be thought , Jove send her a Whores rewarding , but good or bad , she gulled the Lad of foure pence half penny farthing . The to'ther day , upon the way , it was my chance to meet her . She blushed read , And nothing said , but I began to greet her . Now now sweet Lass , can you thus pass By me without regarding . though you have forgotten , yet I have not . the foure pence half penny farthing . Kind Sir ( quoth she ) I well do see , you have not it forgotten , Quoth I , I protest , This may be a Jest , when we are dead and rotten , She whent her way , and since that day , I thought it might be a rare thing : to cause this Jest , thus to be expressed of foure pence half penny farthing . Printed at London for C.W. FINIS . M.P. 