A mad kind of wooing , Or , a Dialogue between Will the simple , and Nan the subtle , With their loving agreement . To the tune of the new dance at the Read Bull Playhouse . S Weet Nancie I do love thee deer , Believe me if thou can , And shall , I do protest and swear , while that thy name is Nan . I cannot court with eloquence , As many Courtiers do : But I do love entirely wench , and must enjoy thee too . Spite of friends that contends To separate our love : If thou love me as I love thee , my mind shall never remove . Nan . Peace goodman clown you are to brief , In proffering love to me : And if thou use such rustic speech , we two shall never agree : Dost think my fortune's I'll forsake , To marry with a clown , When I have choice enough to take , of Gallants in the town , The Eagles eye does scorn the fly , She'll find a better prey : Therefore leave off thy dotish suit , away found fool away . Will . Why prethe Nan never scorn my love , Although I be but plain : Where Will does once but set his love , he must not love in vain . For all you speak so Scholarlike , And talk of Eagles eyes : Know I am come a wooing wench and not a catching flies . Then never reply nor yet deny , I will not be denayed : I would not have the world report , I twice did woe a maid . Nan . But twice and thrice and twenty times You'll woo before you win : To match with ignorance amongst maids is held a sottish since . Therefore I'll match if ere I match , One equal to my spirit : And such a one or else no one , shall my best love inherit . A man of wit best does fit A Maiden for to take , Then such a man if that I can : my husband I will make . Will . Why Nan I hope thou dost not take , Thy Will to be a fool : Thou knowest my Father for thy sake , three years kept me at school . And if that thou hast spirit enough , To yield to be my joy , I warrant I have spirit enough , to get a chopping boy . Then never deny , yield and try , Or try before you trust : Let who will seek for to enjoy , for Will both will and must . The second part . To the same tune . W High I have those that seek my love That are too stout to yield : And rather then they loose my love , they win me in the field . Their skill in martial excercise , So much does thine surpass , That should they hear thee sue for love , they count thee but and ass , Then be mute thy foolish suit Is all but spent in vain : This and impossibility thou shouldst my love obtain . Will . Dost hear me Nan what ere he be , Does challenge love of thee , I'll make him like to Cupid blind , he shall have no eyes to see . I think I have a little skill , My arms be strong and tuff : And I will warrant they shall serve to baste him well enough : If he but starts to touch thy skirts , Or in the least offends : By all the hope's I have of love , I'll cut of his fingers ends . Nan . How should I grant to fancy thee , Whom others do disdain . If thou shouldst chance to marry me , how wouldst thou me maintain : Thou knowest not how to use a wife , Thou art to homely bred : And soon I doubt to jealousy , thy fancy might be led : Many fears urge my cares , That I should careful be : I fear I match a crabbed piece , if I should marry thee . Will . Nan I am plain and cannot cog , Nor promise wondrous fair : When all my promises shall prove like Castles built i'th Air : My true performance shall be all , My word shall be my deed : And honest Nan if I have thee , you shall have all you need . Clay hands be bold , say and hold , Let us make quick dispatch : If thou love me as I love thee , weel straight make up the match . Nan . Then Will here is both hand and heart , I'll love thee till I die : The world may judge I match for love , and not all for the eye . I had rather match a lusty youth , Whose strength is now at full , Then match a small weak timbered man , whose strength hath had a pull . Maidens all both great and small , That hope to marry at length , Do not marry for bravery : but unto strength add strength . F I N I S. Printed for H.G. [ ? ] London bridge . A mad kind of wooing , Or , a Dialogue between Will the simple , and Nan the subtle , With their loving agreement . To the tune of the new dance at the Read Bull Playhouse . S Weet Nancie I do love thee deer , Believe me if thou can , And shall , I do protest and swear , while that thy name is Nan . I cannot court with eloquence , As many Courtiers do : But I do love entirely wench , and must enjoy thee too . Spite of friends that contends To separate our love : If thou love me as I love thee , my mind shall never remove . Nan . Peace goodman clown you are to brief , In proffering love to me : And if thou use such rustic speech , we two shall never agree : Dost think my fortune's I'll forsake , To marry with a clown , When I have choice enough to take , of Gallants in the town , The Eagles eye does scorn the fly , She'll find a better prey : Therefore leave off thy dotish suit , away found fool away . Will . Why prethe Nan never scorn my love , Although I be but plain : Where Will does once but set his love , he must not love in vain . For all you speak so Scholarlike , And talk of Eagles eyes : Know I am come a wooing wench and not a catching flies . Then never reply nor yet deny , I will not be denayed : I would not have the world report , I twice did woe a maid . Nan . But twice and thrice and twenty times You'll woo before you win : To match with ignorance amongst maids is held a sottish since . Therefore I'll match if ere I match , One equal to my spirit : And such a one or else no one , shall my best love inherit . A man of wit best does fit A Maiden for to take , Then such a man if that I can : my husband I will make . Will . Why Nan I hope thou dost not take , Thy Will to be a fool : Thou knowest my Father for thy sake , three years kept me at school . And if that thou hast spirit enough , To yield to be my joy , I warrant I have spirit enough , to get a chopping boy . Then never deny , yield and try , Or try before you trust : Let who will seek for to enjoy , for Will both will and must . The second part . To the same tune . W High I have those that seek my love That are too stout to yield : And rather then they loose my love , they win me in the field . Their skill in martial excercise , So much does thine surpass , That should they hear thee sue for love , they count thee but and ass , Then be mute thy foolish suit Is all but spent in vain : This and impossibility thou shouldst my love obtain . Will . Dost hear me Nan what ere he be , Does challenge love of thee , I'll make him like to Cupid blind , he shall have no eyes to see . I think I have a little skill , My arms be strong and tuff : And I will warrant they shall serve to baste him well enough : If he but starts to touch thy skirts , Or in the least offends : By all the hope's I have of love , I'll cut of his fingers ends . Nan . How should I grant to fancy thee , Whom others do disdain . If thou shouldst chance to marry me , how wouldst thou me maintain : Thou knowest not how to use a wife , Thou art to homely bred : And soon I doubt to jealousy , thy fancy might be led : Many fears urge my cares , That I should careful be : I fear I match a crabbed piece , if I should marry thee . Will . Nan I am plain and cannot cog , Nor promise wondrous fair : When all my promises shall prove like Castles built i'th Air : My true performance shall be all , My word shall be my deed : And honest Nan if I have thee , you shall have all you need . Clay hands be bold , say and hold , Let us make quick dispatch : If thou love me as I love thee , weel straight make up the match . Nan . Then Will here is both hand and heart , I'll love thee till I die : The world may judge I match for love , and not all for the eye . I had rather match a lusty youth , Whose strength is now at full , Then match a small weak timbered man , whose strength hath had a pull . Maidens all both great and small , That hope to marry at length , Do not marry for bravery : but unto strength add strength . F I N I S. Printed for H.G. [ ? ] London bridge . 