The Country Lass . To a dainty new note , Which if you cannot hit , There's another tune which does as well fit . That's the Mother beguiles the Daughter , A Lthough I am a Country Lass , a lofty mind I bear a , I think my self as good as those , that gay apparel wear a : My coat is made of homely grey , yet is my skin as soft a , As those that with the chiefest wines do both their bodies oft a. Down , down , derry , derry down , heigh down a down a down a , A derry , dery dery , dery , down , heigh down a down a derry . What though I keep my father's sheep , a thing that must be done a , A Garland of the fairest flowers , shall shroud me from the Sun a , And when I see they feeding be , where grass and flowers spring a , Close by a crystal fountain side , I fit me down and sing a , Down down etc : Dame Nature crowns us with delight , surpassing Court or City , we pleasures take from morn to night , in sport and pastimes pretty : Your Courtly Dams in Coaches ride abroad for recreation ; We Country Lasses hate their pride , and keep the Country fashion : Down , down , etc Your City Wives led wanton lives , and if they come i'th Country , They are so proud , that each one strives , for to outbrave our Gentry : We Country Lasses homely be , for seat nor wall we strive not , We are content with our degree , our debtors we deprive not : Down , down , etc I care not for a fan nor Mask , when [ TO ] ytans heat reflecteth , A homely Hat is all I ask , which well my face protecteth , Yet am I in my Country guise esteemed a Lass as pretty , As those that every day devise new shapes in Court and City : Down , etc In every season on the year , I undergo my labour , Nor shower nor wind at all I fear , my limbs I do not favour : If Summer's heat my beauty stain , it makes me never the sicker , Sith I can wash it off again with a cup of Christmas liquour : Down , down derry derry down , heigh down a down a down a , A derry derry , derry derry down , heigh down a down a derry . The second part . To the same Tune . A TO Christmas time in mirth and glee , I dance with young men neatly And who i'th City like to me , shall pleasure taste completely , No sport but pride and luxury i'th City can be found then , But bounteous hospitality , i'th Country does abound then , Down , down , etc I'th Spring my labour yields delight , to walk i'th merry morning , When Flora is to please my sighed , the ground with Flowers adorning , With merry Lads to make the Hay , I go and do not grumble , My work does seem to me but play , when with young men I tumble . Downe , etc The Lark & amp ; Thrush from briar to bush do leap and skip and sing a , And all is then to welcome in the long and looked-for Sping a : We fear not Cupids arrows keen , Dame Venus we desire a , Diana is our honoured Queen , and her we magnify a. Down , etc That which your City Damsels scorn , we hold our chiefest Jewel , Without , to work at Hay and corn , within , to bake and brew well : To keep the Dairy decently , and all things clean and neatly , Your city Minions do defy , their scorn we weigh not greatly : Down , etc When we together a milking go , with pails upon our heads a , And walking over woods and fields , where grass and flowers spreads a , In honest pleasure we delight , which makes our labour sweet a , And mirth exceeds on every side , when Lads and Lasses meet a : Down , etc Then do not scorn a country Lass , though she be plain and meanly : Who takes the country Wench to wife ( that goes neat and cleanly ) Is better sped , then if he wed a fine one from the city , For there they are so nicely bred , they must not work for pity . Downe , etc I speak not this to that intent , ( as some may well conjecture ) As though to wooing I were bent , no I never learned Loves Lecture : But what I sing is in defence of all plain country Lasses , Whose modest , honest innocence , all city Girls surpasses , Down , down , derry derry down , heigh down a down a down a , A derry derry derry derry down , heigh down a down a derry . F I N I S. M P . The Country Lass . To a dainty new note , Which if you cannot hit , There's another tune which does as well fit . That's the Mother beguiles the Daughter , A Lthough I am a Country Lass , a lofty mind I bear a , I think my self as good as those , that gay apparel wear a : My coat is made of homely grey , yet is my skin as soft a , As those that with the chiefest wines do both their bodies oft a. Down , down , derry , derry down , heigh down a down a down a , A derry , dery dery , dery , down , heigh down a down a derry . What though I keep my father's sheep , a thing that must be done a , A Garland of the fairest flowers , shall shroud me from the Sun a , And when I see they feeding be , where grass and flowers spring a , Close by a crystal fountain side , I fit me down and sing a , Down down etc : Dame Nature crowns us with delight , surpassing Court or City , we pleasures take from morn to night , in sport and pastimes pretty : Your Courtly Dams in Coaches ride abroad for recreation ; We Country Lasses hate their pride , and keep the Country fashion : Down , down , etc Your City Wives led wanton lives , and if they come i'th Country , They are so proud , that each one strives , for to outbrave our Gentry : We Country Lasses homely be , for seat nor wall we strive not , We are content with our degree , our debtors we deprive not : Down , down , etc I care not for a fan nor Mask , when [ TO ] ytans heat reflecteth , A homely Hat is all I ask , which well my face protecteth , Yet am I in my Country guise esteemed a Lass as pretty , As those that every day devise new shapes in Court and City : Down , etc In every season on the year , I undergo my labour , Nor shower nor wind at all I fear , my limbs I do not favour : If Summer's heat my beauty stain , it makes me never the sicker , Sith I can wash it off again with a cup of Christmas liquour : Down , down derry derry down , heigh down a down a down a , A derry derry , derry derry down , heigh down a down a derry . The second part . To the same Tune . A TO Christmas time in mirth and glee , I dance with young men neatly And who i'th City like to me , shall pleasure taste completely , No sport but pride and luxury i'th City can be found then , But bounteous hospitality , i'th Country does abound then , Down , down , etc I'th Spring my labour yields delight , to walk i'th merry morning , When Flora is to please my sighed , the ground with Flowers adorning , With merry Lads to make the Hay , I go and do not grumble , My work does seem to me but play , when with young men I tumble . Downe , etc The Lark & amp ; Thrush from briar to bush do leap and skip and sing a , And all is then to welcome in the long and looked-for Sping a : We fear not Cupids arrows keen , Dame Venus we desire a , Diana is our honoured Queen , and her we magnify a. Down , etc That which your City Damsels scorn , we hold our chiefest Jewel , Without , to work at Hay and corn , within , to bake and brew well : To keep the Dairy decently , and all things clean and neatly , Your city Minions do defy , their scorn we weigh not greatly : Down , etc When we together a milking go , with pails upon our heads a , And walking over woods and fields , where grass and flowers spreads a , In honest pleasure we delight , which makes our labour sweet a , And mirth exceeds on every side , when Lads and Lasses meet a : Down , etc Then do not scorn a country Lass , though she be plain and meanly : Who takes the country Wench to wife ( that goes neat and cleanly ) Is better sped , then if he wed a fine one from the city , For there they are so nicely bred , they must not work for pity . Downe , etc I speak not this to that intent , ( as some may well conjecture ) As though to wooing I were bent , no I never learned Loves Lecture : But what I sing is in defence of all plain country Lasses , Whose modest , honest innocence , all city Girls surpasses , Down , down , derry derry down , heigh down a down a down a , A derry derry derry derry down , heigh down a down a derry . F I N I S. M P. 