A New little Northern Song called , Under and over , over and under , Or a pretty new Jest , and yet no wonder , Or a maiden mistaken , as many now be , View well this glass , and you may plainly see . To a pretty new Northern tune . A S I abroad was walking , I herd two lovers talking : One to the other spoke , of loves constancy : I over a meadow turning , upon a Summer's morning : I herd these Lovers mourning , cause of loves cruelty . For under and over , over and under , under and over again , quoth she sweet heart I love thee , as maidens should love men . The youngman he replied , and not her love denied , Quoth he I am affied : in constancy to thee , The cast all sorrows from thee : for I will never wrong thee , Sweet pleasures shall o'rethrong thee so thou be true to me . For under and over , over and under , under , and over again , I mean sweet heart to love thee , as maids are loved of men . ( Quoth she ) my only sweating , men fail oft in their meeting , Let me have faithful greeting , or else depart for aye : Oh say not so my Jewel , for then you are to cruel , Yield Cupid's fix more fuel , let not true love decay . For under and over , over etc I love thee mine own sweating , as maids are loved of men . Said she , you men can flatter , ( quoth he ) sweet not such matter , With that amain flung at her : and then began to play , Such kisses sweet he gave her , and often time did crave her , That he in love might have her : to sport with him all day . At under and over , over etc yield thou to sport with me sweet as maids do sport with men . He by the white hand took her , and then in kindness shook her , Swearing he had mistook her : if now she proved unkind , O , yield my sweet unto me , or else you will undo me , If thou not love wilt show me , to grief I am assigned . Then under and over , over etc come sport with me my sweating , as maids do sport with men . At length this Lass consented , they both were well contented , And often times frequented , that lovely meadow green , To gather lovely dazies , or sport in Cupid's mazes , I speak it to their praises : they merry there have been . With under and over , over etc These two did sport together , as women sport with men . Ere fortie weeks expired , this bonny Lass was tired , Her heart with love was fired : and grown so round before , This young man from her wanders , to France or else to Flaunders : Thus was she served with Flanders , her heart then waxed soar . With under and over , over etc this maid was wronged in earnest as maids are wronged by men . The The second part To the same tune . TO Hen she began to prattle , like one of Cupid's cattle , And daily would she tattle , That her love was too unkind : Thus in distress to leave her , and by his words deceive her , Which did of joys bereave her , that she was left behind . With under and over , over and under , under and over again , she railed against her sweet heart , as women rail gainst men . Then she unto her mother , complained before another , This fault she could not smother , her belly was so round : Quoth she ) some comfort yield me , and from all shame pray shield me , For sorrows Tide hath filled me , that I am like to found . With under and over , over and under , under and over again , she gainst her love complained , as maids complain gainst men . Her mother straight perceived , her daughter was deceived , Which very much her grieved , but now for help she seeks , How to keep her daughter from shame should follow after , And this same shameless matter , in private close she keeps . With under and over , over and under , under and over again , she says unto her daughter these are the tricks of men . In brief she was delivered , the Carrier he was hired . And she from thence was carried to London with all speed : No one could be demurer , nor seem a Virgin purer , Her carriage now did sure her , to be a maid indeed . With under and over , over and under she vows never to sport that way , that maidens use with men . Then in short time came to her . a Taylor and did woo her , He never could part from her , till she was made his wife : He for a maid did take her , and vowed never to forsake her But still be her partaker , And love her as his life . With under and over , over etc She vowed ever to love him still , as women do love men . Thus were her griefs converted , and she was now light hearted , Being so well supported , by her new wedded mate , She now was freed from mourning , her grief to joys were turning , She now lived void of scorning , dissension and debate . With under and over , over and under , she vowed ever to love him still , as women do love men . F I N I S , London Printed for H G . A New little Northern Song called , Under and over , over and under , Or a pretty new Jest , and yet no wonder , Or a maiden mistaken , as many now be , View well this glass , and you may plainly see . To a pretty new Northern tune . A S I abroad was walking , I herd two lovers talking : One to the other spoke , of loves constancy : I over a meadow turning , upon a Summer's morning : I herd these Lovers mourning , cause of loves cruelty . For under and over , over and under , under and over again , quoth she sweet heart I love thee , as maidens should love men . The youngman he replied , and not her love denied , Quoth he I am affied : in constancy to thee , The cast all sorrows from thee : for I will never wrong thee , Sweet pleasures shall o'rethrong thee so thou be true to me . For under and over , over and under , under , and over again , I mean sweet heart to love thee , as maids are loved of men . ( Quoth she ) my only sweating , men fail oft in their meeting , Let me have faithful greeting , or else depart for aye : Oh say not so my Jewel , for then you are to cruel , Yield Cupid's fix more fuel , let not true love decay . For under and over , over etc I love thee mine own sweating , as maids are loved of men . Said she , you men can flatter , ( quoth he ) sweet not such matter , With that amain flung at her : and then began to play , Such kisses sweet he gave her , and often time did crave her , That he in love might have her : to sport with him all day . At under and over , over etc yield thou to sport with me sweet as maids do sport with men . He by the white hand took her , and then in kindness shook her , Swearing he had mistook her : if now she proved unkind , O , yield my sweet unto me , or else you will undo me , If thou not love wilt show me , to grief I am assigned . Then under and over , over etc come sport with me my sweating , as maids do sport with men . At length this Lass consented , they both were well contented , And often times frequented , that lovely meadow green , To gather lovely dazies , or sport in Cupid's mazes , I speak it to their praises : they merry there have been . With under and over , over etc These two did sport together , as women sport with men . Ere fortie weeks expired , this bonny Lass was tired , Her heart with love was fired : and grown so round before , This young man from her wanders , to France or else to Flaunders : Thus was she served with Flanders , her heart then waxed soar . With under and over , over etc this maid was wronged in earnest as maids are wronged by men . The The second part To the same tune . TO Hen she began to prattle , like one of Cupid's cattle , And daily would she tattle , That her love was too unkind : Thus in distress to leave her , and by his words deceive her , Which did of joys bereave her , that she was left behind . With under and over , over and under , under and over again , she railed against her sweet heart , as women rail gainst men . Then she unto her mother , complained before another , This fault she could not smother , her belly was so round : Quoth she ) some comfort yield me , and from all shame pray shield me , For sorrows Tide hath filled me , that I am like to found . With under and over , over and under , under and over again , she gainst her love complained , as maids complain gainst men . Her mother straight perceived , her daughter was deceived , Which very much her grieved , but now for help she seeks , How to keep her daughter from shame should follow after , And this same shameless matter , in private close she keeps . With under and over , over and under , under and over again , she says unto her daughter these are the tricks of men . In brief she was delivered , the Carrier he was hired . And she from thence was carried to London with all speed : No one could be demurer , nor seem a Virgin purer , Her carriage now did sure her , to be a maid indeed . With under and over , over and under she vows never to sport that way , that maidens use with men . Then in short time came to her . a Taylor and did woo her , He never could part from her , till she was made his wife : He for a maid did take her , and vowed never to forsake her But still be her partaker , And love her as his life . With under and over , over etc She vowed ever to love him still , as women do love men . Thus were her griefs converted , and she was now light hearted , Being so well supported , by her new wedded mate , She now was freed from mourning , her grief to joys were turning , She now lived void of scorning , dissension and debate . With under and over , over and under , she vowed ever to love him still , as women do love men . F I N I S , London Printed for H G. 