Hockley in the hold : To the tune of the Fiddler in the Stocks . TO here was a poor Scholar who loved a Lass , Whose father in London and Usurer was , The Scholars father in Hockley did dwell , The Lasses in London as many knows well : the Scholar he loved her , and often proved her , At last with good words he obtained the goal : with promises fed , a plot he hath laid , To carry the maid to Hockley the hold . Many good bargains her father did bring her , But serpentlike gold had no power to sting her , She scorned such old reffuge for all they were rich , The Scholar though poor did content her much : old pieces of health , did woo with there wealth , But she did reject them , because they were old : the Scholar did woo her , and closely came to her , And at the last carried her to the Hockley the hold . Her father perceiving she did not regard , Such old wealthy Husbands that he had prepared , But seeing her love , set all on a Scholar , Whose whole revenues were scarce worth a doller : he sought to change her , and banish the stranger , And so locked her up , cause she should not be stole : but he was deceived , and of her bereft . The Scholar her carried to Hockley the hold . No man was admitted this Maiden to see , But such as were rich and of worthy degree , Five old toothless suitors each day did come to her . In fine mumping manner with money to woo her : she could not love them , but did reprove them , Her sinister [ r ] fortune , she did condole : another she loved , as after proved , By him she was carried to Hockley the hold . The Scholar at last did devise a fine flight . To steal her away in the dead of the night , And boldly to dare he does come in great haste , And being come thither he knocketh a pace : the Usurer wise , loath for to rise , Commanded his daughter to see who did call : and being come down , her true love she found , Ready to carry her to Hockley the hold . Which when she espied full merry was she , For now she was certain she should beset free , From fine doting suitors , and from a cursed father , Before she would stay she would run away rather : fogetting her clothes , to be rid from her foes , Her father's crammed bags she away with her stole , who little thought all this while , that they did him beguile , And carry it away to Hockley the hold . Hockley in the hold : The second part , To the same tune . TO Hus was he deceived of much by his child , The Scholar the Usurer thus did beguile , He wiped the noses of all the Rich five , And by this adventure is likely to thrive : onward he's going , in riches flowing , In every town for Wine he does call , thus being wise , he god a prize , The best that was brought to Hockley the hold . Through Barnet he rides with his beauteous lass , And thorough Saint Albons he freely does pass , A long unto Dunstable swiftly he goes , Where he is made welcome of all he knows : he did not delay , nor long did stay , But onward to Hockley without control : where having [ stayed h ] er , his wife he made her , And they were married at Hockley the hold . Her father having missed her , grew heavy and sad , But the loss of his money did make him stark mad Like to Jeronimo , raging he goes , The loss of his geld was the cause of his woes : that wrapped in care , and urged to despair , up to his garret secretly he stole : and for loss of his pelf , he hanged him self , his daughter being married at Hockley the hold . The money these couple bear with them away , was five thousand pounds , as the Country does say Wherewith he did live contentedly , And with a part , a great farm did buy . he helped the poor with a part of his store , And gave at this door full many a dole : thus lived they in joy , and had a fair boy , which proved a rich man at Hockley the hold . You Usurers all be warned by this thing , Gad not your fortune's nor life in a string . Despair not for gold , for that cannot save ye , And if you despair , the devil's ready to have ye . give women their mind , for Cupid is blind , And then you shall find , contentment in all : thus do I end , and to you commend , this song that I have pend , from Hockley the hold . Finis . W.H. Imprinted at London for TO . L.Hockley in the hold : To the tune of the Fiddler in the Stocks . TO here was a poor Scholar who loved a Lass , Whose father in London and Usurer was , The Scholars father in Hockley did dwell , The Lasses in London as many knows well : the Scholar he loved her , and often proved her , At last with good words he obtained the goal : with promises fed , a plot he hath laid , To carry the maid to Hockley the hold . Many good bargains her father did bring her , But serpentlike gold had no power to sting her , She scorned such old reffuge for all they were rich , The Scholar though poor did content her much : old pieces of health , did woo with there wealth , But she did reject them , because they were old : the Scholar did woo her , and closely came to her , And at the last carried her to the Hockley the hold . Her father perceiving she did not regard , Such old wealthy Husbands that he had prepared , But seeing her love , set all on a Scholar , Whose whole revenues were scarce worth a doller : he sought to change her , and banish the stranger , And so locked her up , cause she should not be stole : but he was deceived , and of her bereft . The Scholar her carried to Hockley the hold . No man was admitted this Maiden to see , But such as were rich and of worthy degree , Five old toothless suitors each day did come to her . In fine mumping manner with money to woo her : she could not love them , but did reprove them , Her sinister [ r ] fortune , she did condole : another she loved , as after proved , By him she was carried to Hockley the hold . The Scholar at last did devise a fine flight . To steal her away in the dead of the night , And boldly to dare he does come in great haste , And being come thither he knocketh a pace : the Usurer wise , loath for to rise , Commanded his daughter to see who did call : and being come down , her true love she found , Ready to carry her to Hockley the hold . Which when she espied full merry was she , For now she was certain she should beset free , From fine doting suitors , and from a cursed father , Before she would stay she would run away rather : fogetting her clothes , to be rid from her foes , Her father's crammed bags she away with her stole , who little thought all this while , that they did him beguile , And carry it away to Hockley the hold . Hockley in the hold : The second part , To the same tune . TO Hus was he deceived of much by his child , The Scholar the Usurer thus did beguile , He wiped the noses of all the Rich five , And by this adventure is likely to thrive : onward he's going , in riches flowing , In every town for Wine he does call , thus being wise , he god a prize , The best that was brought to Hockley the hold . Through Barnet he rides with his beauteous lass , And thorough Saint Albons he freely does pass , A long unto Dunstable swiftly he goes , Where he is made welcome of all he knows : he did not delay , nor long did stay , But onward to Hockley without control : where having [ stayed h ] er , his wife he made her , And they were married at Hockley the hold . Her father having missed her , grew heavy and sad , But the loss of his money did make him stark mad Like to Jeronimo , raging he goes , The loss of his geld was the cause of his woes : that wrapped in care , and urged to despair , up to his garret secretly he stole : and for loss of his pelf , he hanged him self , his daughter being married at Hockley the hold . The money these couple bear with them away , was five thousand pounds , as the Country does say Wherewith he did live contentedly , And with a part , a great farm did buy . he helped the poor with a part of his store , And gave at this door full many a dole : thus lived they in joy , and had a fair boy , which proved a rich man at Hockley the hold . You Usurers all be warned by this thing , Gad not your fortune's nor life in a string . Despair not for gold , for that cannot save ye , And if you despair , the devil's ready to have ye . give women their mind , for Cupid is blind , And then you shall find , contentment in all : thus do I end , and to you commend , this song that I have pend , from Hockley the hold . Finis . W.H. Imprinted at London for T.L. 