A very pleasant new Ditty , To the Tune of Stand thy ground old Harry . C Ome Hostess fill the pot , for a penny will never undo me . If thou has no money to pay the shot , my Guest thou art welcome to me . Come fill us a dozen of Cannae . though they be but a pint a piece , We swear weel drink they off every man , and then weel the Tapster fleece . For after a while we are here , And after a while we are gone : And after a while we have money , And after a while we have none . Suppose a young man spend , and then have no money to pay , He hath no credit , nor none youll lend , but you will his Castor stay . Yet still he will call for Beer , with a full courageous note : But when the reckoning he does hear , now marry he hath never a groat . For after a while we are here , etc Good fellows enrich the house , where they do daily use : So long as they deal in honest sort , and do not the man abuse . But we are such fellows grown , as day may appear : That a Fleming of the female kind is [ b ] etter then English Beer . [ For after ] a while , etc We love good liquour well , and will not a Can refuse : But when the reckoning comes to pay , we had rather gain then lose . Yet for to gull the Tapster we are exceeding loath , But the chiefest fault in him we find , he does fill his cans with froth . For after a while , etc The Butcher with his wind , does love to puff his meat : The Cook does in his kind delight the world to cheat . The Taylor with his shears will shread a garment small , But and honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc The high-lawyer bravely goes , on highways taking rend : But often he pawns his clothes , his money being spent . Many a man does cheat , till to the Stocks he fallen : But your honest drunkard still , is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while we are here , And after a while we are gone : And after a while we have money , And after a while we have none . The Second Part. To the same tune . F Ull many that seem precise , will now and then be drunk : And others thought full wise , will spend till they be sunk , But this so closely done , the fault does seem but small , But your honest drunkard still , is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while we are here , And after a while we are gone : And after a while we have money , And after a while we have none . The Malt man with his meal does oft times hoist the prize , With mingled stuff heel deal , yet still his grain must rise Though the Country fell it cheap . his rate shall never fallen , But yet your honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc The Courtier will intrude to the company of a maid , And will her with words deceive , if she trust all that's said : But let the shot be paid , his expenses is but small , But your honest drunkard still , is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Some Tradesman if you please , his humour for to try , His gain shall still increase , or else he will swear and lie . But if you nought will buy , enraged he then will fallen : But your honest drunkard still , is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Your under-Officers , that so lately were allowed , Will in their offices be damnably devilish proud , For they will abate no fee , although the fault be small : But your honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Some Bakers pure do show , although they use false weights : And Chandlors well I know , have pretty cunning sleights . Your cruel Sergeants will no pity take at all : But your honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Your Panders will be proud , good fellows not precise : Your officers turn wood-peckers , when they be styled wise . Good-fellowship will stand , when as the rest will fallen : For your honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Come fill us each man a quart , and give us a bottle of Ale : I'll pledge thee with all my heart , if our liquour be but stale . Let us have thy Tester and mine , and so it shall fly all day : Weel call and always join , though we have no money to pay . For after a while we are here , And after a while we are gone : And after a while we have money , And after a while we have none . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosso [ n ] A very pleasant new Ditty , To the Tune of Stand thy ground old Harry . C Ome Hostess fill the pot , for a penny will never undo me . If thou has no money to pay the shot , my Guest thou art welcome to me . Come fill us a dozen of Cannae . though they be but a pint a piece , We swear weel drink they off every man , and then weel the Tapster fleece . For after a while we are here , And after a while we are gone : And after a while we have money , And after a while we have none . Suppose a young man spend , and then have no money to pay , He hath no credit , nor none youll lend , but you will his Castor stay . Yet still he will call for Beer , with a full courageous note : But when the reckoning he does hear , now marry he hath never a groat . For after a while we are here , etc Good fellows enrich the house , where they do daily use : So long as they deal in honest sort , and do not the man abuse . But we are such fellows grown , as day may appear : That a Fleming of the female kind is [ b ] etter then English Beer . [ For after ] a while , etc We love good liquour well , and will not a Can refuse : But when the reckoning comes to pay , we had rather gain then lose . Yet for to gull the Tapster we are exceeding loath , But the chiefest fault in him we find , he does fill his cans with froth . For after a while , etc The Butcher with his wind , does love to puff his meat : The Cook does in his kind delight the world to cheat . The Taylor with his shears will shread a garment small , But and honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc The high-lawyer bravely goes , on highways taking rend : But often he pawns his clothes , his money being spent . Many a man does cheat , till to the Stocks he fallen : But your honest drunkard still , is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while we are here , And after a while we are gone : And after a while we have money , And after a while we have none . The Second Part. To the same tune . F Ull many that seem precise , will now and then be drunk : And others thought full wise , will spend till they be sunk , But this so closely done , the fault does seem but small , But your honest drunkard still , is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while we are here , And after a while we are gone : And after a while we have money , And after a while we have none . The Malt man with his meal does oft times hoist the prize , With mingled stuff heel deal , yet still his grain must rise Though the Country fell it cheap . his rate shall never fallen , But yet your honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc The Courtier will intrude to the company of a maid , And will her with words deceive , if she trust all that's said : But let the shot be paid , his expenses is but small , But your honest drunkard still , is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Some Tradesman if you please , his humour for to try , His gain shall still increase , or else he will swear and lie . But if you nought will buy , enraged he then will fallen : But your honest drunkard still , is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Your under-Officers , that so lately were allowed , Will in their offices be damnably devilish proud , For they will abate no fee , although the fault be small : But your honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Some Bakers pure do show , although they use false weights : And Chandlors well I know , have pretty cunning sleights . Your cruel Sergeants will no pity take at all : But your honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Your Panders will be proud , good fellows not precise : Your officers turn wood-peckers , when they be styled wise . Good-fellowship will stand , when as the rest will fallen : For your honest drunkard still is the chiefest fellow of all . For after a while , etc Come fill us each man a quart , and give us a bottle of Ale : I'll pledge thee with all my heart , if our liquour be but stale . Let us have thy Tester and mine , and so it shall fly all day : Weel call and always join , though we have no money to pay . For after a while we are here , And after a while we are gone : And after a while we have money , And after a while we have none . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosso [ n ] 