The Essex man cozened by a Whore . Or a fine and merry new Ditty , That lately was done near London City , And if you please to stay a while , You shall hear how th'Whore the Essex man did beguile . To the tune of , Gallants come away . Y Ou Countrymen that are And travel unto London , And there do fell fat ware , Take heed you be not undone by Cupids snare . For I will here unfold A jest that was done lately , As I for truth was told By a City Lass most stately , of Cupids mould . And Essex man came up Unto fair Londons City , Having thereby much hope To get a maiden pretty , but note his luck . His father being dead , And left him land and treasure , He had a running head To follow after pleasure , till he was sped . Of Cattle he had store , As Oxen , Kine , and Horses , Now he begins to roar And follow evil courses , more and more . A drove of Sheep he brought Of late to Smithfield market , And there they soon were bought . The jest comes now , then hark it , for he out sought , To find a fair young bride Which might content his fancy , And soon he had a guide That brought him to fine Nancy , decked with pride . In Turnebull street she lived , And commonly used trading , From Bridewell late relieved , For using of her whoring , thus she him deceived . His mind she did fulfil In each respect so pleasing , That he was lusting still , With her to have some dealing : but note her skill . She told him she was one That was a fair young Virgin , And would not so be wone , Until she had a husband of her own . The second part , To the same tune . A Gain , quoth she , to him , Here have I no friend know-ing , Because I'll not by them Yield to my bestowing , till I see time . Quoth she , I am a Ward , And heir am to great living , Therefore I'll make regard To what man I am yielding , lest I be snared . When as this youngster herd Her utter forth these speeches , His heart was newly cheered , And for her love beseeches with much regard . Quoth he , Sweetheart , I know I have for to maintain thee , Howsoever the world do go , With all things fine and dainty , then ease my woe . My love to you is such , That I for your sweet favour , Can think no cost too much , Then let me loose no labour : sweet i'st a match ? She said she would consent , If he would marry quickly , For fear of some's prevent That for her love was sickly , and did lament . Then kindly with a kiss He sweetly did salute her , And said , my Love for this I will remain thy debtor while life I miss . No longer we will stay , But with all haste be married , For fear that long delay May cause us to be miscarried , then let's away . 'Twas in the afternoon That he began to woo her . But ere next day was done , He married and made sure , as it's well known . The comfort that he had , When he from Church returned , Was , this poor silly Lad His head was sorely horned , which made him mad . The Wardship that she told Him , when he did woo her , Was but a tale of old , His mind for to inlure , till she was sold . When as he found he was Thus cozened by a Strumpet , He sold all , and left his Lass , And with the Drums & amp ; Trumpet the Seas did pass . And where this Ward is now , I am not very certain , But he does her allow To go and seek her fortune as she knows how . All you young men take heed , That rashly ride a wooing , For fear you take a Bride That proves to your undoing , as this men did . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . R. C . The Essex man cozened by a Whore . Or a fine and merry new Ditty , That lately was done near London City , And if you please to stay a while , You shall hear how th'Whore the Essex man did beguile . To the tune of , Gallants come away . Y Ou Countrymen that are And travel unto London , And there do fell fat ware , Take heed you be not undone by Cupids snare . For I will here unfold A jest that was done lately , As I for truth was told By a City Lass most stately , of Cupids mould . And Essex man came up Unto fair Londons City , Having thereby much hope To get a maiden pretty , but note his luck . His father being dead , And left him land and treasure , He had a running head To follow after pleasure , till he was sped . Of Cattle he had store , As Oxen , Kine , and Horses , Now he begins to roar And follow evil courses , more and more . A drove of Sheep he brought Of late to Smithfield market , And there they soon were bought . The jest comes now , then hark it , for he out sought , To find a fair young bride Which might content his fancy , And soon he had a guide That brought him to fine Nancy , decked with pride . In Turnebull street she lived , And commonly used trading , From Bridewell late relieved , For using of her whoring , thus she him deceived . His mind she did fulfil In each respect so pleasing , That he was lusting still , With her to have some dealing : but note her skill . She told him she was one That was a fair young Virgin , And would not so be wone , Until she had a husband of her own . The second part , To the same tune . A Gain , quoth she , to him , Here have I no friend know-ing , Because I'll not by them Yield to my bestowing , till I see time . Quoth she , I am a Ward , And heir am to great living , Therefore I'll make regard To what man I am yielding , lest I be snared . When as this youngster herd Her utter forth these speeches , His heart was newly cheered , And for her love beseeches with much regard . Quoth he , Sweetheart , I know I have for to maintain thee , Howsoever the world do go , With all things fine and dainty , then ease my woe . My love to you is such , That I for your sweet favour , Can think no cost too much , Then let me loose no labour : sweet i'st a match ? She said she would consent , If he would marry quickly , For fear of some's prevent That for her love was sickly , and did lament . Then kindly with a kiss He sweetly did salute her , And said , my Love for this I will remain thy debtor while life I miss . No longer we will stay , But with all haste be married , For fear that long delay May cause us to be miscarried , then let's away . 'Twas in the afternoon That he began to woo her . But ere next day was done , He married and made sure , as it's well known . The comfort that he had , When he from Church returned , Was , this poor silly Lad His head was sorely horned , which made him mad . The Wardship that she told Him , when he did woo her , Was but a tale of old , His mind for to inlure , till she was sold . When as he found he was Thus cozened by a Strumpet , He sold all , and left his Lass , And with the Drums & amp ; Trumpet the Seas did pass . And where this Ward is now , I am not very certain , But he does her allow To go and seek her fortune as she knows how . All you young men take heed , That rashly ride a wooing , For fear you take a Bride That proves to your undoing , as this men did . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . R. C. 