A Warning for all good fellows to take heed of Punks enticements . To a new tune , called I'll go no more a Wooing by night . A sist me kind Muses , that I may express : The fashions of Whores and Punks , in their progress : That they do intend to take , this present year , For sweet recreation sake , to take the air . O come no more there boys , nor go not thither : But let them go as they are . like whores together . For first at Saint James tide , they mean to begin : Their bawdy Booths to erect , for to catch in : All such simple woodcocks , as will not beware To hate them , and sing with me , come no more there . O come no more there , etc Bagpipers and fiddlers , with Phife playing Drummers : With Music will merry be , to welcome all cominers : That unto such places lewd , often repair : Yet hate them and sing with me , come no more there . O come no more there , etc For Whores & amp ; Punks you shall have there , of all sorts : The which will allure you to vain wanton sports , If that you will foolishly , be caught in their snare : Theyle make you sing woefully , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Ther's nought can be lacking there , which may you allure : For on all sorts of dainties , you there may be sure : Yet take heed , lest for the Sauce , you pay too deer , Then after be driven to sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc For when as Saint Jameses fair , is done and passed , Then next unto Smithfield , they mean for to hast : And there take their standings , at Bartholomew fair , Yet hate them still , lest you sing , come no more there . Then come no more there etc You honest poor Chapmen , that comes to this fair : On these filthy sharcking Punks , still have a care , lest that they deceive you , of some of your ware : And make you sing mournfully come no more there . Then come no more there , etc For civil Punks you shall have , bravely will sharcke it : When they come to a fair , or any market , Yet in their habit go , as though no such they were , Which causeth many sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Beside I have seen to my grief , many good fellows By their base wicked means , brought to the Gallows , And they themselves cunningly , has escaped clear : Then hate their base company , and come no more there . Then come no more there , etc I gladly could wish that , all Youths would refrain , Bowling Alleys and Pidging-holes , places most vain . Where there they shall nothing learn but curse and swear , Then kindly I would them with , not to come there . Then come no more there , etc Thus hoping the better sort , are not offended . My simple unlearned song , hear shall be ended . And I in a second part , straight will declare , What Ill success Punks had of la [ te ] at Sturbridge fair . Then come no more there Boys , nor go not thither : But let them go as they are , like Whores together . FINIS . At London printed for T.P. The Second part , to the same tune . A LL you wanton wenches , which in Venus delight A little come listen , what I shall recite : And let this same Ditty , cause you to beware : How that you come any more , at Sturbridge fair . Then come no more there Boys , nor go not thither : But let them go as they are , like Whores together . What happened unto you , I hope you remember : When you were at Sturbridge fair , in last September : Where there you had store of such , vild whipping cheer : As that I think , you will sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc A Panderin Turnbole street , which shall be nameless : Who kept a Rande-vouse , of persons shameless Was put to such a fright : as I did hear , As that I think he will sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Ther's few of this fellowship , that ever thrives : Because that they carelessly , led wicked lives : So that they can pleasure have , they never care : Till they be inforct to sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc The Devil which Author is of their dark deeds : When their shame it is brought to light , with joy it him seeks : And he does seek day and night , their souls to ensnare : Then thrice happy is that wight , which God does fear . Then come no more there , etc Again most happy is he , has a chaste Wife : And can contentedly so led his life : As that he may Whores detest , and of them beware , And likewise sweetly sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Like unto Crockadills , some Whores you shall have : The which with their feigned tears , will you deceive : And yet as common be , as a Barbers chair , Then hate their society , and come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Least being to tedious , here briefly I'll end : Wishing all wicked Whores , their lives may amend : That if ere they chance to come , to any fair , They never may need for to sing , come no more there . Then come no more there Boys , nor go not thither : But let them go as they are , like Whores together . FINIS . Robert Guy . At London printed for TO . P.A Warning for all good fellows to take heed of Punks enticements . To a new tune , called I'll go no more a Wooing by night . A sist me kind Muses , that I may express : The fashions of Whores and Punks , in their progress : That they do intend to take , this present year , For sweet recreation sake , to take the air . O come no more there boys , nor go not thither : But let them go as they are . like whores together . For first at Saint James tide , they mean to begin : Their bawdy Booths to erect , for to catch in : All such simple woodcocks , as will not beware To hate them , and sing with me , come no more there . O come no more there , etc Bagpipers and fiddlers , with Phife playing Drummers : With Music will merry be , to welcome all cominers : That unto such places lewd , often repair : Yet hate them and sing with me , come no more there . O come no more there , etc For Whores & amp ; Punks you shall have there , of all sorts : The which will allure you to vain wanton sports , If that you will foolishly , be caught in their snare : Theyle make you sing woefully , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Ther's nought can be lacking there , which may you allure : For on all sorts of dainties , you there may be sure : Yet take heed , lest for the Sauce , you pay too deer , Then after be driven to sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc For when as Saint Jameses fair , is done and passed , Then next unto Smithfield , they mean for to hast : And there take their standings , at Bartholomew fair , Yet hate them still , lest you sing , come no more there . Then come no more there etc You honest poor Chapmen , that comes to this fair : On these filthy sharcking Punks , still have a care , lest that they deceive you , of some of your ware : And make you sing mournfully come no more there . Then come no more there , etc For civil Punks you shall have , bravely will sharcke it : When they come to a fair , or any market , Yet in their habit go , as though no such they were , Which causeth many sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Beside I have seen to my grief , many good fellows By their base wicked means , brought to the Gallows , And they themselves cunningly , has escaped clear : Then hate their base company , and come no more there . Then come no more there , etc I gladly could wish that , all Youths would refrain , Bowling Alleys and Pidging-holes , places most vain . Where there they shall nothing learn but curse and swear , Then kindly I would them with , not to come there . Then come no more there , etc Thus hoping the better sort , are not offended . My simple unlearned song , hear shall be ended . And I in a second part , straight will declare , What Ill success Punks had of la [ te ] at Sturbridge fair . Then come no more there Boys , nor go not thither : But let them go as they are , like Whores together . FINIS . At London printed for T.P. The Second part , to the same tune . A LL you wanton wenches , which in Venus delight A little come listen , what I shall recite : And let this same Ditty , cause you to beware : How that you come any more , at Sturbridge fair . Then come no more there Boys , nor go not thither : But let them go as they are , like Whores together . What happened unto you , I hope you remember : When you were at Sturbridge fair , in last September : Where there you had store of such , vild whipping cheer : As that I think , you will sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc A Panderin Turnbole street , which shall be nameless : Who kept a Rande-vouse , of persons shameless Was put to such a fright : as I did hear , As that I think he will sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Ther's few of this fellowship , that ever thrives : Because that they carelessly , led wicked lives : So that they can pleasure have , they never care : Till they be inforct to sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc The Devil which Author is of their dark deeds : When their shame it is brought to light , with joy it him seeks : And he does seek day and night , their souls to ensnare : Then thrice happy is that wight , which God does fear . Then come no more there , etc Again most happy is he , has a chaste Wife : And can contentedly so led his life : As that he may Whores detest , and of them beware , And likewise sweetly sing , come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Like unto Crockadills , some Whores you shall have : The which with their feigned tears , will you deceive : And yet as common be , as a Barbers chair , Then hate their society , and come no more there . Then come no more there , etc Least being to tedious , here briefly I'll end : Wishing all wicked Whores , their lives may amend : That if ere they chance to come , to any fair , They never may need for to sing , come no more there . Then come no more there Boys , nor go not thither : But let them go as they are , like Whores together . FINIS . Robert Guy . At London printed for T.P. 