A merry new Song of a rich Widow's wooing , That married a young man to her own undoing . To the tune of , Stand thy ground old Harry . I Am so sick for love , as like was never no man , Which makes me cry , With a lovesick eye , Have at thy coat old woman : Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman , Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . I may have maidens young , and lusty gallants plenty : Yet will I be As true to thee , as if thou wertenberg but twenty . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . I'll till thy pasture ground , and mow thy pleasant meadow : My mother me told , I must be bold in wooing of a Widow . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . I'll give thee all those joys a young man may afford thee : And ride each day With thee any way , and bravely will maintain thee , [ Would ] we at thy coat , etc This pleased the widow well , and her old blood revived , To hear his noate , Still have at thy coat , 'twould make at old wench long-lived . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . Old Rat she loved good cheese , and thereupon would nibble , And dance a round To hear the found and music of his fiddle . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . To and old woman's heart no greater comfort may be , Then to live in delight , And marry a Knight , and so be made a Lady . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . The Moon scarce changed thrice , ere this old Lass did marry : But all her sport Was quick and short , and did full soon miscarry . Have at thy coat , etc The Second part . To the same Tune . I N Gold and Silver-lace , and pipes of smoking Fogus , Then every day He spent her away in gold a brave Jacobus . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . He made her Reddockes fly , and her old bags to ratlte : It was charge to keep So many sheep , and heards of horned Cattle . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . And hundred of good Oaks he sold to buy a Hobby , Abroad for to ride In pomp and pride , while she sat like a noddy . Have at thy coat , etc Her comely coat of woollen , he changed into fine Satin : Yet in a week She was to seek , and beg her bred by Patten . Have at thy coat , etc Her house most richly stored whereof he made not dainty : But in a day He consumed away what she had god in twenty . Have at thy coat , etc He cherished her mumbling gums , with food as they had need on For want of her teeth , He gave her Bull-beef , but once a week to feed on . Have at thy coat , etc When she had lived two months , this lusty youngman's purchase , With kindness thus killed , Her coffin he filled with her consumed carcase . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . Old women take good heed , and trust your selves with no man : For as you do hear , She hath paid full deer , for Have at thy coat old woman . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . FINIS . Printed at London for T. Langley . A merry new Song of a rich Widow's wooing , That married a young man to her own undoing . To the tune of , Stand thy ground old Harry . I Am so sick for love , as like was never no man , Which makes me cry , With a lovesick eye , Have at thy coat old woman : Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman , Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . I may have maidens young , and lusty gallants plenty : Yet will I be As true to thee , as if thou wertenberg but twenty . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . I'll till thy pasture ground , and mow thy pleasant meadow : My mother me told , I must be bold in wooing of a Widow . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . I'll give thee all those joys a young man may afford thee : And ride each day With thee any way , and bravely will maintain thee , [ Would ] we at thy coat , etc This pleased the widow well , and her old blood revived , To hear his noate , Still have at thy coat , 'twould make at old wench long-lived . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . Old Rat she loved good cheese , and thereupon would nibble , And dance a round To hear the found and music of his fiddle . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . To and old woman's heart no greater comfort may be , Then to live in delight , And marry a Knight , and so be made a Lady . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . The Moon scarce changed thrice , ere this old Lass did marry : But all her sport Was quick and short , and did full soon miscarry . Have at thy coat , etc The Second part . To the same Tune . I N Gold and Silver-lace , and pipes of smoking Fogus , Then every day He spent her away in gold a brave Jacobus . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . He made her Reddockes fly , and her old bags to ratlte : It was charge to keep So many sheep , and heards of horned Cattle . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . And hundred of good Oaks he sold to buy a Hobby , Abroad for to ride In pomp and pride , while she sat like a noddy . Have at thy coat , etc Her comely coat of woollen , he changed into fine Satin : Yet in a week She was to seek , and beg her bred by Patten . Have at thy coat , etc Her house most richly stored whereof he made not dainty : But in a day He consumed away what she had god in twenty . Have at thy coat , etc He cherished her mumbling gums , with food as they had need on For want of her teeth , He gave her Bull-beef , but once a week to feed on . Have at thy coat , etc When she had lived two months , this lusty youngman's purchase , With kindness thus killed , Her coffin he filled with her consumed carcase . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . Old women take good heed , and trust your selves with no man : For as you do hear , She hath paid full deer , for Have at thy coat old woman . Have at thy coat old woman , Have at thy coat old woman : Here and there , and every where , Have at thy coat old woman . FINIS . Printed at London for T. Langley . 