Good Sir , you wrong your Britches , Pleasantly discoursed by a witty Youth , and a wily Wench . To the tune of O no , no , no , not yet : Or , I'll never love thee more . A Young man and a Lass of late , within a Garden Alley , As Cupid had commanded him , began to court and dally : She bade him have a special care , he fell into no Ditches , For so , ( quoth she ) the proverb says , good Sir , you'll wrong your Britches . Thou art my only dearest love , the Youngman then replied : I will buy thee a silken gown , a Petticoat beside , A kirtle laid with silver Lace , with gallant golden stitches . In doing so , good Sir , ( quoth she ) you well may wrong your Britches . We'll walk about the Meadows green , each Summer morning early . Forbear ( quoth she ) it's better far , among green Peas and Barley . Where if you will a peazing go , you must take up no Fitches : Lest those that owe the Peascod field , do say you wrong your Britches . I'll give thee all my Ewes and Lambs , and Kine unto thy Dary . To keep the horns your self ( quoth she ) I hope you will be wary . For they will serve you passing fit , to be your household riches , Where if you go to borrow horns , you'll greatly wrong your Britches . The Minstrel of our town shall play thee still thy morning's Ditty . Good Sir ( quoth she ) I want rewards , for one that is so witty . For when I hear your music found , my fingers always itches , To crown you with a Fiddlers fee : you wrong ( good Sir ) your Britches . We'll feed no more on Barley broth , the Grape's a sweeter diet . Too deep a taste ( quoth she ) will bring , your body out of quiet , And vex you with tormenting gripes , of many rumbling stitches : That you will be constrained ( good Sir ) at last to wrong your Britches . The Second part . To the same tune . I ' le fight , my Love , in thy defence , my weapons at thy pleasure , Whereat the wily Wench replied , I doubt you'll have no leisure . And so you will a dastard prove , when as the field he pitches : And coming thence for fear away , you much may wrong your Britches . I am a lively Jovial Lad , and for thy sake will swagger : Until the ground look blue ( my Wench ) my wit shall never stagger . Take heed ( quoth she ) lest Midas Ass your drowsy pate bewitches : For being drunk , then with your Punk , good Sir , you'll wrong your Britches . A Pot and Pipe is all my life , for this becomes a wooer : Come , bonny Besse , let's coll and kiss , I am no other doer . Hold off ( quoth she ) your hands are foul , and all my clothes bepitches ; For if you thus bemoil your self , you'll greatly wrong your Britches . My dapple grey to bear thee hence , shall soon be saddled finely : To ride and run for thee , my Love , so thou wilt use me kindly . But if you ride too fast ( quoth she ) he'll throw us into ditches : And so shall I bemyer my self , and you much wrong your Britches . The Youngman at these wilely words , in friendly manner smiled : In that she had so cunningly , his proffered love beguiled . But yet at last she took of him , himself and all his riches : And would no more then scoffing say , ( Good Sir ) you wrong your Britches . Thus Cupid is a wiley Lad , and well his Bow can handle : To make young Wenches light their lamps , to burn by Venus Candle . For I am now in love ( quoth she ) this young man me bewitches : And I am vexed that ere I said , ( Good Sir ) you wrong your Britches . At London printed for J . TO . FINIS . Good Sir , you wrong your Britches , Pleasantly discoursed by a witty Youth , and a wily Wench . To the tune of O no , no , no , not yet : Or , I'll never love thee more . A Young man and a Lass of late , within a Garden Alley , As Cupid had commanded him , began to court and dally : She bade him have a special care , he fell into no Ditches , For so , ( quoth she ) the proverb says , good Sir , you'll wrong your Britches . Thou art my only dearest love , the Youngman then replied : I will buy thee a silken gown , a Petticoat beside , A kirtle laid with silver Lace , with gallant golden stitches . In doing so , good Sir , ( quoth she ) you well may wrong your Britches . We'll walk about the Meadows green , each Summer morning early . Forbear ( quoth she ) it's better far , among green Peas and Barley . Where if you will a peazing go , you must take up no Fitches : Lest those that owe the Peascod field , do say you wrong your Britches . I'll give thee all my Ewes and Lambs , and Kine unto thy Dary . To keep the horns your self ( quoth she ) I hope you will be wary . For they will serve you passing fit , to be your household riches , Where if you go to borrow horns , you'll greatly wrong your Britches . The Minstrel of our town shall play thee still thy morning's Ditty . Good Sir ( quoth she ) I want rewards , for one that is so witty . For when I hear your music found , my fingers always itches , To crown you with a Fiddlers fee : you wrong ( good Sir ) your Britches . We'll feed no more on Barley broth , the Grape's a sweeter diet . Too deep a taste ( quoth she ) will bring , your body out of quiet , And vex you with tormenting gripes , of many rumbling stitches : That you will be constrained ( good Sir ) at last to wrong your Britches . The Second part . To the same tune . I ' le fight , my Love , in thy defence , my weapons at thy pleasure , Whereat the wily Wench replied , I doubt you'll have no leisure . And so you will a dastard prove , when as the field he pitches : And coming thence for fear away , you much may wrong your Britches . I am a lively Jovial Lad , and for thy sake will swagger : Until the ground look blue ( my Wench ) my wit shall never stagger . Take heed ( quoth she ) lest Midas Ass your drowsy pate bewitches : For being drunk , then with your Punk , good Sir , you'll wrong your Britches . A Pot and Pipe is all my life , for this becomes a wooer : Come , bonny Besse , let's coll and kiss , I am no other doer . Hold off ( quoth she ) your hands are foul , and all my clothes bepitches ; For if you thus bemoil your self , you'll greatly wrong your Britches . My dapple grey to bear thee hence , shall soon be saddled finely : To ride and run for thee , my Love , so thou wilt use me kindly . But if you ride too fast ( quoth she ) he'll throw us into ditches : And so shall I bemyer my self , and you much wrong your Britches . The Youngman at these wilely words , in friendly manner smiled : In that she had so cunningly , his proffered love beguiled . But yet at last she took of him , himself and all his riches : And would no more then scoffing say , ( Good Sir ) you wrong your Britches . Thus Cupid is a wiley Lad , and well his Bow can handle : To make young Wenches light their lamps , to burn by Venus Candle . For I am now in love ( quoth she ) this young man me bewitches : And I am vexed that ere I said , ( Good Sir ) you wrong your Britches . At London printed for J . TO . FINIS . 