The history of the Prophet Jonas . The repentance of Ninivie that great City , which was 48. miles in compass , having a thousand and five hundred Towers about the same , and at the time of his preaching there was a hundred and twenty thousand Children therein . To the tune of Paggintons round . U Unto the Prophet Jonas I read , The word of the Lord secretly came , Saying to Ninivy pass thou with speed , To that mighty City of wondrous fame . Against it quoth he cry out and be free , Their wickedness great is come up to me , Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance his vengeance does spare Then Jonas rose up immediately , And from the presence of the Lord God , He sought by sea away to fly , And went down to Joppa where many ships road , The fare he did pay , and so god away . And thus the Lords word he did disobey . Sinn is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc But God sent out such a mighty great wind , That a soar tempest upon the sea came : Which greatly tormented the Mariners mind Their ship being like to be broke by the same . And being afraid , no time they delaide : But each unto his God earnestly prayed , Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc Yet seeing the tempest continue so soar To lighten their ship they thought it the best , Into the rough sea , therefore they cast over , All their rich merchandise ere they did rest , but while they did weep , Jonas did sleep , And under the hatches himself he did keep . Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc Then came the Shipmaster to Jonas in haste , Saying thou sluggard why sleepest thou so ? We being in danger away to be cast , Rise , pray to thy God to release our great woe . for well you may see , that likely we be , Each one to be drowned without remedy , Sin is the cause of sorrow and care : But God through repentance , etc Then each unto his fellow did say , Come let us cast lots between us each one , To know for which of our sins this day , This grievous tempest upon us is blown . Then truth for to tell , when wisely and well , The lots were all cast , upon Jonas it fell . Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc When they perceived the lot to fallen so , They asked of Jonas immediately : from whence he did come and where he would go , Where he was born and in what country . then Jonas replied , and never denied , But all the whole truth unto them descried , Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc I am and Hebrew you shall understand , And the Lord God of heaven I only serve : Which made the sea and eke the dry land , But from his commandment late I did swerve . In seeking to fly , from his majesty , He hath laid upon me this great misery , Sin is the cause of sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc Then said the Mariners tell us with speed , What shall we do with thee in this case : That this great tempest may cease in our need , Which rages extremely in every place . Cast me in the sea . thus Jonas did say , For it's for my sake you are plagued this day , Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc Nevertheless the men were afraid , And sought for to row the ship unto Land : But could not prevail the tempest so played , That they in great peril of life still did stand . O Lord then quoth they , we humbly pray , For this man let us not perish this day , sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , etc But God through repentance , etc Then took they up Jonas in place where he stood , And threw him out of the ship in the sea : And presently the fierce raging flood , With the great tempest the Lord did allay . and then presently , they all did espy , That the sea most calm and most quiet did lie . Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc The second part . To the same tune . A Great Whale fish the Lord sent that way , Which swallowed up Jonas immediately , Three days and three nights in his belly he lay , And there full oft to the Lord he did cry . Then God did command , The Whale out of hand , To cast up the Prophet upon the dry land , Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc The word of the Lord came to Jonas again , Saying go to Ninivies mighty City : And preach unto that people most plain , The words which I before showed thee , then Jonas arose , to the City he goes , And daily to them Gods judgement he shows , Footy days after yet remains quoth he , And Ninivie then destroyed shall be . The king and the people of Ninivy then , At Jonas preaching repented full soar : They proclaimed a fast both to beasts and to men , And sackcloth and ashes most humbly they wore , and most bitterly , to God they did cry , Asking forgiveness and craving mercy . For forty days yet remains quoth he , And Ninivy then destroyed shall be . Their great repentance the Lord did behold , Their true humble hearts in every degree : To them his mercy he did then unfold And turned his punishment from their City . his favour and grace , he sent to that place , And all their offences he clean did deface . Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc At this was Jonas greatly displeased , And thus to the Lord in anger he said : Now well I see thy wrath is appeased , Whereby all falsehood to me will be laid . and therefore quoth he , most blessed should I be , If my hateful life thou shouldst take now from me Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc So Jonas went out of the City with speed , And on the east a booth he did make : There to behold , to mark and take heed , what course with the city the lord God would take where God in one night , brought up in his sighed , A wild vine to shadow him from the Suns heat . Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc Jonas of this was wondrous glad , For great was the force of the Sun in that place , And he by that means a good covering had , But God the next day the vine did deface . so then the Suns heat : on him did so beatrice , That for this vine Jonas his anger was great . since is the causer of sorrow and care , etc Then said the Lord God to Jonas again , And dost thou well to be angry for this ? He said I do well to be angry certain , Seeing my comfort so soon I do miss . and better quoth he , it is now for me , To die then to live in this misery , Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc And hast thou such pity the Lord God did say , On this wild Vine which sprung in one night : And in a night likewise did wither away , Which thou never plantedst , nor cost thee a mite . then why should not I , in tender mercy , Pity this great repenting City ? Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God by repentance his vengeance does spare . FINIS . Printed at London by E , A . The history of the Prophet Jonas . The repentance of Ninivie that great City , which was 48. miles in compass , having a thousand and five hundred Towers about the same , and at the time of his preaching there was a hundred and twenty thousand Children therein . To the tune of Paggintons round . U Unto the Prophet Jonas I read , The word of the Lord secretly came , Saying to Ninivy pass thou with speed , To that mighty City of wondrous fame . Against it quoth he cry out and be free , Their wickedness great is come up to me , Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance his vengeance does spare Then Jonas rose up immediately , And from the presence of the Lord God , He sought by sea away to fly , And went down to Joppa where many ships road , The fare he did pay , and so god away . And thus the Lords word he did disobey . Sinn is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc But God sent out such a mighty great wind , That a soar tempest upon the sea came : Which greatly tormented the Mariners mind Their ship being like to be broke by the same . And being afraid , no time they delaide : But each unto his God earnestly prayed , Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc Yet seeing the tempest continue so soar To lighten their ship they thought it the best , Into the rough sea , therefore they cast over , All their rich merchandise ere they did rest , but while they did weep , Jonas did sleep , And under the hatches himself he did keep . Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc Then came the Shipmaster to Jonas in haste , Saying thou sluggard why sleepest thou so ? We being in danger away to be cast , Rise , pray to thy God to release our great woe . for well you may see , that likely we be , Each one to be drowned without remedy , Sin is the cause of sorrow and care : But God through repentance , etc Then each unto his fellow did say , Come let us cast lots between us each one , To know for which of our sins this day , This grievous tempest upon us is blown . Then truth for to tell , when wisely and well , The lots were all cast , upon Jonas it fell . Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc When they perceived the lot to fallen so , They asked of Jonas immediately : from whence he did come and where he would go , Where he was born and in what country . then Jonas replied , and never denied , But all the whole truth unto them descried , Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc I am and Hebrew you shall understand , And the Lord God of heaven I only serve : Which made the sea and eke the dry land , But from his commandment late I did swerve . In seeking to fly , from his majesty , He hath laid upon me this great misery , Sin is the cause of sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc Then said the Mariners tell us with speed , What shall we do with thee in this case : That this great tempest may cease in our need , Which rages extremely in every place . Cast me in the sea . thus Jonas did say , For it's for my sake you are plagued this day , Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc Nevertheless the men were afraid , And sought for to row the ship unto Land : But could not prevail the tempest so played , That they in great peril of life still did stand . O Lord then quoth they , we humbly pray , For this man let us not perish this day , sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , etc But God through repentance , etc Then took they up Jonas in place where he stood , And threw him out of the ship in the sea : And presently the fierce raging flood , With the great tempest the Lord did allay . and then presently , they all did espy , That the sea most calm and most quiet did lie . Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God through repentance , etc The second part . To the same tune . A Great Whale fish the Lord sent that way , Which swallowed up Jonas immediately , Three days and three nights in his belly he lay , And there full oft to the Lord he did cry . Then God did command , The Whale out of hand , To cast up the Prophet upon the dry land , Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc The word of the Lord came to Jonas again , Saying go to Ninivies mighty City : And preach unto that people most plain , The words which I before showed thee , then Jonas arose , to the City he goes , And daily to them Gods judgement he shows , Footy days after yet remains quoth he , And Ninivie then destroyed shall be . The king and the people of Ninivy then , At Jonas preaching repented full soar : They proclaimed a fast both to beasts and to men , And sackcloth and ashes most humbly they wore , and most bitterly , to God they did cry , Asking forgiveness and craving mercy . For forty days yet remains quoth he , And Ninivy then destroyed shall be . Their great repentance the Lord did behold , Their true humble hearts in every degree : To them his mercy he did then unfold And turned his punishment from their City . his favour and grace , he sent to that place , And all their offences he clean did deface . Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc At this was Jonas greatly displeased , And thus to the Lord in anger he said : Now well I see thy wrath is appeased , Whereby all falsehood to me will be laid . and therefore quoth he , most blessed should I be , If my hateful life thou shouldst take now from me Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc So Jonas went out of the City with speed , And on the east a booth he did make : There to behold , to mark and take heed , what course with the city the lord God would take where God in one night , brought up in his sighed , A wild vine to shadow him from the Suns heat . Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc Jonas of this was wondrous glad , For great was the force of the Sun in that place , And he by that means a good covering had , But God the next day the vine did deface . so then the Suns heat : on him did so beatrice , That for this vine Jonas his anger was great . since is the causer of sorrow and care , etc Then said the Lord God to Jonas again , And dost thou well to be angry for this ? He said I do well to be angry certain , Seeing my comfort so soon I do miss . and better quoth he , it is now for me , To die then to live in this misery , Sin is the causer of sorrow and care , etc And hast thou such pity the Lord God did say , On this wild Vine which sprung in one night : And in a night likewise did wither away , Which thou never plantedst , nor cost thee a mite . then why should not I , in tender mercy , Pity this great repenting City ? Sin is the cause of great sorrow and care , But God by repentance his vengeance does spare . FINIS . Printed at London by E , A . 