The Honest Woer , His mind expressing in plain and few terms By which to his Mistress his love he confirms . To the tune of , Lulling beyond her . F Airest mistress cease your moan , spoil not your eyes with weeping , For certainly if one be gone , you may have another sweating : I will not compliment with oaths , nor speak you fair to prove you , But save your eyes to mend your clothes , for it is I that love you . I will not boast of substance great , wherewith I can endow you , Nor what apparel , not what meat , I'm able to allow you : You know this time that all things tries , let then my affection move you , And weep no more , but save your eyes , for it is I that love you . If I should say your golden hairs , I should both lie and flatter , Why should I say thine eyes are stars , when there is no such matter . Every like is not the same , yet none I prize above you , To sighs so soar you're much to blame , for it is I that love you . With courtly words I cannot court , like one whose tongue is filed , By subtle speakers in that sort , poor women are oft beguiled . I speak no more but what I mean , then do as it does behoove you , And do not waste your tears in vain , for it is I that love you . You may I know have choice of men , that many ways excel me , But yet in love I pass all them , my conscience this does tell me : Then let no riches buy my price , nor flattering words remove you , To sighs and sob you are very unwise , for it is I that love you . I am thy constant Pyramus , be thou my constant Thysbe , That such a match is made by us , let this a sealing kiss be : I never will revoke my vow , nor deem any Lass above you , Then dearest leave your sorrow now , for it is I that love you . Now if you do my love deny , and bitterly refuse me , I will not say for love I'll die , in that you shall excuse me : Some say so yet mean nothing less , but pity I hope will move you Not to put me to that distress , for it is I that love you . The second Part , Being and answer of that Maiden kind , Correspondent to the plain Youngmans mind . To the same tune . A S the lost infant does rejoice when he hath found his mother , So am I glad to hear the voice of you my constant lover : Believe me Harry , if you will , Once I so true do prove you , Come when you will and welcome still , for it is that I love you . I loved a false disloyal youth , which caused my thus lamenting , For in his words there were no truth But subtle circumventing : You use plain dealing which is best , so still it does behoove you , And therefore set your heart at rest , for it is that I love you . And now henceforth I will give over to weep for him that jeers me , And his affection isle abhor , for no true love he bears me : With you I will rejoice my deer , let no false tales remove you , Believe not every news you hear , for it is I that love you . As Hypocrats of Pontus Queen did follow her Mithridates , Through uncouth woods and forests great , so nothing shall separate us : I'll circulate the world with you , nought the shall from me remove you , Think not that I speak more than's true for it is I that love you . Nor Lucre'e , nor Penelope shall be more chaste than I will , Ere I'll forsake my honesty ten thousand deaths I die will : You need not to repent your choice , but let me true still prove you , And so we shall together rejoice , for it is I that love you . Judge not amiss because so soon I yield to your requesting , Love is a thing that ought to be done without any fraud or jesting : You love plain dealing as you say , then why should I disprove you ? Against my mind I can't say nay , for it is I that love you . And thus with mind reciprocal this couple were well matched , The Parson told the Parish all and then it quite dispatched : I hope the love that betwixt them passed unto delight will move you , Each of them baed this phrase to last , for it is I that love you . London , Printed for H.G. FINIS . R . W.The Honest Woer , His mind expressing in plain and few terms By which to his Mistress his love he confirms . To the tune of , Lulling beyond her . F Airest mistress cease your moan , spoil not your eyes with weeping , For certainly if one be gone , you may have another sweating : I will not compliment with oaths , nor speak you fair to prove you , But save your eyes to mend your clothes , for it is I that love you . I will not boast of substance great , wherewith I can endow you , Nor what apparel , not what meat , I'm able to allow you : You know this time that all things tries , let then my affection move you , And weep no more , but save your eyes , for it is I that love you . If I should say your golden hairs , I should both lie and flatter , Why should I say thine eyes are stars , when there is no such matter . Every like is not the same , yet none I prize above you , To sighs so soar you're much to blame , for it is I that love you . With courtly words I cannot court , like one whose tongue is filed , By subtle speakers in that sort , poor women are oft beguiled . I speak no more but what I mean , then do as it does behoove you , And do not waste your tears in vain , for it is I that love you . You may I know have choice of men , that many ways excel me , But yet in love I pass all them , my conscience this does tell me : Then let no riches buy my price , nor flattering words remove you , To sighs and sob you are very unwise , for it is I that love you . I am thy constant Pyramus , be thou my constant Thysbe , That such a match is made by us , let this a sealing kiss be : I never will revoke my vow , nor deem any Lass above you , Then dearest leave your sorrow now , for it is I that love you . Now if you do my love deny , and bitterly refuse me , I will not say for love I'll die , in that you shall excuse me : Some say so yet mean nothing less , but pity I hope will move you Not to put me to that distress , for it is I that love you . The second Part , Being and answer of that Maiden kind , Correspondent to the plain Youngmans mind . To the same tune . A S the lost infant does rejoice when he hath found his mother , So am I glad to hear the voice of you my constant lover : Believe me Harry , if you will , Once I so true do prove you , Come when you will and welcome still , for it is that I love you . I loved a false disloyal youth , which caused my thus lamenting , For in his words there were no truth But subtle circumventing : You use plain dealing which is best , so still it does behoove you , And therefore set your heart at rest , for it is that I love you . And now henceforth I will give over to weep for him that jeers me , And his affection isle abhor , for no true love he bears me : With you I will rejoice my deer , let no false tales remove you , Believe not every news you hear , for it is I that love you . As Hypocrats of Pontus Queen did follow her Mithridates , Through uncouth woods and forests great , so nothing shall separate us : I'll circulate the world with you , nought the shall from me remove you , Think not that I speak more than's true for it is I that love you . Nor Lucre'e , nor Penelope shall be more chaste than I will , Ere I'll forsake my honesty ten thousand deaths I die will : You need not to repent your choice , but let me true still prove you , And so we shall together rejoice , for it is I that love you . Judge not amiss because so soon I yield to your requesting , Love is a thing that ought to be done without any fraud or jesting : You love plain dealing as you say , then why should I disprove you ? Against my mind I can't say nay , for it is I that love you . And thus with mind reciprocal this couple were well matched , The Parson told the Parish all and then it quite dispatched : I hope the love that betwixt them passed unto delight will move you , Each of them baed this phrase to last , for it is I that love you . London , Printed for H.G. FINIS . R.W. 