Loves up to the elbows . To the tune of Codlings . Y Ou men that loving be , love not too fondly , Let still your mind live free , yet use them kindly . Use not in love excess , For here I will express I am in love no less then up to the elbows I spied a dainty Dame of fairest feature She was of nature's frame a comely creature , Her beauty did excel . And her sighed pleased me well With her in love [ I ] fell up to the elbows . Oft have I meet this maid yet near spoke to her , Bashfulness did persuade , I should not woo her , Still this most beauteous prize So dazzled mine eyes , I fell in woeful wise in love to the elbows . Once at a Wake I met my lovely sweating When I did clean forget the use of greeting , She merry made with Ale , Whose acquaintance was but small , In love I further fallen up to the elbows . Dancing upon a Green next time I spied her , She seemed like Flora's Queen all time I eyed her Such frolic roundelays She danst to win the Bays I fell : while she god the praise in love to the elbows . Trasing the fragrant fields one morning early , To see what nature yields , Wheat Rye and barley . A milking I did find This maid of Venus kind Fate hath my love assigned up to the elbows . Selling of Apricokes I spied her standing Laid out with golden locks my heart commanding I cheapened her ware It looked so passing fair But her looks cast care on care being up to the elbows . Once I occasion took to speak unto her , Such was her Beauteous look I feign would woo her But speech was spent in vain Such words of coy disdain From her : my heart hath stain being up to the elbows . The second part . To the same tune . O Nce at a marriage feast we dinde together , I viewed her amongst the rest though minds did sooner I feasted on her sighed She would not looks requite Yet still I took delight being up to the elbows . Like Helens is her face with Golden tresses , Which shows sum oh h splendant grace like young Narcissus Her eyes like Lamps do shine Her looks are so Divine She does my love confine up to the elbows Her pretty Dimple Chin , Cheeks read as Cherries Her neck like Ivory thin with Amber Berries Wast short and body tall And fingers long and small Forced me in love to fallen up to the elbows . From waste unto the foot complete of nature None sees but still does praise this comely creature Did face and mind agree She then would pity me That by loves cruelty am up to the elbows Once more Idem court this dame but am asha [ med ] And by my rash attempt I might be blamed My loving heart does ache For my fair Mistress sake What course should lovers take being up to the elbows . I have seen lovers pine for such like crosses , I have seen lovers die for such like losses But in extremes of woe I neever yet [ I ] know In love , a young man so up to the elbows . Will man that is a man be slaved by woman But this a fault in man grown too too command [ on ] To love , yet love in vain And be not beloved again I plunged am in loves pain up to the elbows Vanish all fearful fear I will unto her Vanish all careful care for I must woo her If we can well agree And she can fancy me No longer love shall be up to the elbows . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS [ William ] Loves up to the elbows . To the tune of Codlings . Y Ou men that loving be , love not too fondly , Let still your mind live free , yet use them kindly . Use not in love excess , For here I will express I am in love no less then up to the elbows I spied a dainty Dame of fairest feature She was of nature's frame a comely creature , Her beauty did excel . And her sighed pleased me well With her in love [ I ] fell up to the elbows . Oft have I meet this maid yet near spoke to her , Bashfulness did persuade , I should not woo her , Still this most beauteous prize So dazzled mine eyes , I fell in woeful wise in love to the elbows . Once at a Wake I met my lovely sweating When I did clean forget the use of greeting , She merry made with Ale , Whose acquaintance was but small , In love I further fallen up to the elbows . Dancing upon a Green next time I spied her , She seemed like Flora's Queen all time I eyed her Such frolic roundelays She danst to win the Bays I fell : while she god the praise in love to the elbows . Trasing the fragrant fields one morning early , To see what nature yields , Wheat Rye and barley . A milking I did find This maid of Venus kind Fate hath my love assigned up to the elbows . Selling of Apricokes I spied her standing Laid out with golden locks my heart commanding I cheapened her ware It looked so passing fair But her looks cast care on care being up to the elbows . Once I occasion took to speak unto her , Such was her Beauteous look I feign would woo her But speech was spent in vain Such words of coy disdain From her : my heart hath stain being up to the elbows . The second part . To the same tune . O Nce at a marriage feast we dinde together , I viewed her amongst the rest though minds did sooner I feasted on her sighed She would not looks requite Yet still I took delight being up to the elbows . Like Helens is her face with Golden tresses , Which shows sum oh h splendant grace like young Narcissus Her eyes like Lamps do shine Her looks are so Divine She does my love confine up to the elbows Her pretty Dimple Chin , Cheeks read as Cherries Her neck like Ivory thin with Amber Berries Wast short and body tall And fingers long and small Forced me in love to fallen up to the elbows . From waste unto the foot complete of nature None sees but still does praise this comely creature Did face and mind agree She then would pity me That by loves cruelty am up to the elbows Once more Idem court this dame but am asha [ med ] And by my rash attempt I might be blamed My loving heart does ache For my fair Mistress sake What course should lovers take being up to the elbows . I have seen lovers pine for such like crosses , I have seen lovers die for such like losses But in extremes of woe I neever yet [ I ] know In love , a young man so up to the elbows . Will man that is a man be slaved by woman But this a fault in man grown too too command [ on ] To love , yet love in vain And be not beloved again I plunged am in loves pain up to the elbows Vanish all fearful fear I will unto her Vanish all careful care for I must woo her If we can well agree And she can fancy me No longer love shall be up to the elbows . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS [ William ] 