A pleasant new Court Song , Between a young Courtier , and a Country Lass , To a new Court Tune . U Pon a Summer's time , in the middle of the morn , A bonny Lass I spied , the fairest ere was born , Fast by a standing Pool , within a meadow green , She laid her self to cool , not thinking to be seen . She gathered lovely flowers , and spent her time in sport : As if to Cupids bowers she daily did resort . The fields afford content unto this Maiden kind , Much time and pains she spent , to satisfy her mind . The Cowslip there she cropped , the Daffodil and Dazie : The Primrose looked so trim , she scorned to be lazy : And ever as she did these pretty posies pull , She rose and fetched a sighs , and wished her apron full . I hearing of her wish , made bold to step unto her : Thinking her love to win , I thus began to woo her , Fair Maid , be not so coy , to kiss thee I am bent : Oh fie , she cried , away , yet smiling gave consent . Then did I help to pluck of every flower that grew , No herb nor flower I missed , but only Time and Rue . But she and I took pains to gather flowers store , Until this Maiden said , kind Sir , I'll have no more . Yet still my loving heart did proffer more to pull . No Sir , quoth she , I'll part , because mine apron's full . So Sir , I'll take my leave , till next we meet again : Rewards me with a kiss , and thanks me for my pain . The second part , To the same tune . I TO was my chance of late , to walk the pleasant fields : Where sweet tuned chirping birds , harmonious music yields . I lent a listening ear unto their music rare : At last mine eye did glance upon a Damsel fair . I stepped me close aside , under a Hawthorn bryer : Her passion laid her down , overruled with found desire . Alack found Maid she cried , and straight she fell a weeping , Why sufferest thou thy heart , within a false ones keeping ? Wherefore is Venus Queen , whom Maids adore in mind , Obdurate to our prayers , or like her fondling blind : When we do spend our loves , whose found expense is vain ? For men are grown so false , they cannot love again . The Queen of Love does know , best how the matter stands , And Hymen knows . I long to come within her bans . My Love best knows my love , and love repaies with hate : Was ever Virgins love , so much unfortunate ? Did my love fickle prove , then had he cause to flee ? But I'll be judged by Jove , I loved him constantly , I hearing of her vows , set bashfulness a part And strived with all my skill , to cheer this Maidens heart . I did instruct her love , where love might be repaid : Could I , quoth she , find love , I were and happy Maid . I straight in love replied . In me thou love shalt find : So made the bargain sure , and eased the Maidens mind . FINIS . Printed for Edward Wright . A pleasant new Court Song , Between a young Courtier , and a Country Lass , To a new Court Tune . U Pon a Summer's time , in the middle of the morn , A bonny Lass I spied , the fairest ere was born , Fast by a standing Pool , within a meadow green , She laid her self to cool , not thinking to be seen . She gathered lovely flowers , and spent her time in sport : As if to Cupids bowers she daily did resort . The fields afford content unto this Maiden kind , Much time and pains she spent , to satisfy her mind . The Cowslip there she cropped , the Daffodil and Dazie : The Primrose looked so trim , she scorned to be lazy : And ever as she did these pretty posies pull , She rose and fetched a sighs , and wished her apron full . I hearing of her wish , made bold to step unto her : Thinking her love to win , I thus began to woo her , Fair Maid , be not so coy , to kiss thee I am bent : Oh fie , she cried , away , yet smiling gave consent . Then did I help to pluck of every flower that grew , No herb nor flower I missed , but only Time and Rue . But she and I took pains to gather flowers store , Until this Maiden said , kind Sir , I'll have no more . Yet still my loving heart did proffer more to pull . No Sir , quoth she , I'll part , because mine apron's full . So Sir , I'll take my leave , till next we meet again : Rewards me with a kiss , and thanks me for my pain . The second part , To the same tune . I TO was my chance of late , to walk the pleasant fields : Where sweet tuned chirping birds , harmonious music yields . I lent a listening ear unto their music rare : At last mine eye did glance upon a Damsel fair . I stepped me close aside , under a Hawthorn bryer : Her passion laid her down , overruled with found desire . Alack found Maid she cried , and straight she fell a weeping , Why sufferest thou thy heart , within a false ones keeping ? Wherefore is Venus Queen , whom Maids adore in mind , Obdurate to our prayers , or like her fondling blind : When we do spend our loves , whose found expense is vain ? For men are grown so false , they cannot love again . The Queen of Love does know , best how the matter stands , And Hymen knows . I long to come within her bans . My Love best knows my love , and love repaies with hate : Was ever Virgins love , so much unfortunate ? Did my love fickle prove , then had he cause to flee ? But I'll be judged by Jove , I loved him constantly , I hearing of her vows , set bashfulness a part And strived with all my skill , to cheer this Maidens heart . I did instruct her love , where love might be repaid : Could I , quoth she , find love , I were and happy Maid . I straight in love replied . In me thou love shalt find : So made the bargain sure , and eased the Maidens mind . FINIS . Printed for Edward Wright . 