The Western Knight , and the young Maid of Bristoll , Their loves and fortune's related . To a pretty amorous tune . I TO was a young knight born in the West , that led a single life , And for to marry he thought it best because he lacked a wife . And on a day he him bethought , as he sat all alone , How he might be to acquaintance brought , with some young pretty one . What luck , alas , ( quoth he ) have I to live thus by my self ? Could I find one of fair beauty , I would not stick for pelf . O , had I one though never so poor , I would her not reject : I have enough , and ask no more , so she will me affect . With that his man he then did call that never unto him stayed , To whom he soon unfolded all , and unto him he said , Come saddle me my milk white Steed , that I may a wooing ride , To get some bonny Lass with speed , whom I may make my Bride . On horseback mounted the gallant young knight , and to try his fate he went , To seek some Damsel fair and bright , that might his mind content . And as he through Bristoll Town did ride , in a fine window of Glass , A gallant Creature he espied , in the Casement where she was . His heart then taught his tongue to speak as soon as he her saw , He unto her his mind did break , compelled by Cupids Law . Fair Maid , quoth he , long may you live , and your body Christ save and see , Five hundred Crowns I will you give , to set your love on me . Though I am fair , quoth she , in some sort , yet am I tender of age , And want the courtesy of the Court , to be a young Knights Page . A Page , thou gallant Dame , quoth she I mean thee not to make : But if thou love me , as I love thee , for my Bride I will thee take . If honestly you mean , quoth she , that I may trust your word , Yours to command I still will be , at bed and eke at board . The second part . To the same tune . TO Hen he led her by the lily white hand , up and down a Garden green , What they did , I cannot understand , nor what passed them between . When he to her had told his mind , and done what he thought best , His former promises so kind , he turned to a Jest . Yet he gave to her a Ring of gold , to keep as her own life : And said , that in short time he would , come and make her his wife . Then mounted he upon his Steed , and road from the Damsel bright , Saying he would fetch her with speed , but he forgotten it quite . When fifteene weeks were come and gone , the Knight came riding by , To whom the Lass with grievous moan , did thus lament and cry . Sir Knight , remember your vow , quoth she that you to me did say , With child , alas , you have got me , and you can it not denay . So mayest thou be , quoth he , fair Flower , and the child be none of mine , Unless thou canst tell me the hour , and name to me the time . Full fifteene weeks it is , quoth she , that you lay my body by ; A gay gold Ring you gave to me , how can you this deny ? If I ( quoth he ) my gold Ring gave , to thee , as to my friend , Then must not think I mean to have thee till my life does end . Nor do I mean to take for my wife , a Lass that is so mean That shall discredit me all my life , and all my kindred clean . Quoth she , false Knight , why didst thou then procure my overthrow , O , now I see that faithless men , will swear , yet mean not so . Now may I live from joys exiled , like a bird kept in a Cage , For I am fifteen weeks gone with child , and but fourteen years of age . Farewell , farewell , thou faithless Knight , sith thou wilt me forsake , O heavens grant all Maidens bright , by me may warning take . When as the Knight did hear what she poor harmless wretch did say , It moved his heart , and quickly he made her a Lady gay . Printed at London for F. Coules . FINIS . The Western Knight , and the young Maid of Bristoll , Their loves and fortune's related . To a pretty amorous tune . I TO was a young knight born in the West , that led a single life , And for to marry he thought it best because he lacked a wife . And on a day he him bethought , as he sat all alone , How he might be to acquaintance brought , with some young pretty one . What luck , alas , ( quoth he ) have I to live thus by my self ? Could I find one of fair beauty , I would not stick for pelf . O , had I one though never so poor , I would her not reject : I have enough , and ask no more , so she will me affect . With that his man he then did call that never unto him stayed , To whom he soon unfolded all , and unto him he said , Come saddle me my milk white Steed , that I may a wooing ride , To get some bonny Lass with speed , whom I may make my Bride . On horseback mounted the gallant young knight , and to try his fate he went , To seek some Damsel fair and bright , that might his mind content . And as he through Bristoll Town did ride , in a fine window of Glass , A gallant Creature he espied , in the Casement where she was . His heart then taught his tongue to speak as soon as he her saw , He unto her his mind did break , compelled by Cupids Law . Fair Maid , quoth he , long may you live , and your body Christ save and see , Five hundred Crowns I will you give , to set your love on me . Though I am fair , quoth she , in some sort , yet am I tender of age , And want the courtesy of the Court , to be a young Knights Page . A Page , thou gallant Dame , quoth she I mean thee not to make : But if thou love me , as I love thee , for my Bride I will thee take . If honestly you mean , quoth she , that I may trust your word , Yours to command I still will be , at bed and eke at board . The second part . To the same tune . TO Hen he led her by the lily white hand , up and down a Garden green , What they did , I cannot understand , nor what passed them between . When he to her had told his mind , and done what he thought best , His former promises so kind , he turned to a Jest . Yet he gave to her a Ring of gold , to keep as her own life : And said , that in short time he would , come and make her his wife . Then mounted he upon his Steed , and road from the Damsel bright , Saying he would fetch her with speed , but he forgotten it quite . When fifteene weeks were come and gone , the Knight came riding by , To whom the Lass with grievous moan , did thus lament and cry . Sir Knight , remember your vow , quoth she that you to me did say , With child , alas , you have got me , and you can it not denay . So mayest thou be , quoth he , fair Flower , and the child be none of mine , Unless thou canst tell me the hour , and name to me the time . Full fifteene weeks it is , quoth she , that you lay my body by ; A gay gold Ring you gave to me , how can you this deny ? If I ( quoth he ) my gold Ring gave , to thee , as to my friend , Then must not think I mean to have thee till my life does end . Nor do I mean to take for my wife , a Lass that is so mean That shall discredit me all my life , and all my kindred clean . Quoth she , false Knight , why didst thou then procure my overthrow , O , now I see that faithless men , will swear , yet mean not so . Now may I live from joys exiled , like a bird kept in a Cage , For I am fifteen weeks gone with child , and but fourteen years of age . Farewell , farewell , thou faithless Knight , sith thou wilt me forsake , O heavens grant all Maidens bright , by me may warning take . When as the Knight did hear what she poor harmless wretch did say , It moved his heart , and quickly he made her a Lady gay . Printed at London for F. Coules . FINIS . 