A Posy of rare Flowers , Gathered by a Youngman for his Mistress . To a delectable new tune . TO He Summer's Sun ore-heating , Within a harbour sitting , Under a Marble shade , For my true Love the fairest , And flowers the rarest , A Posy thus I made . The first and last for trusting , Is called Everlasting , I pulled from the Bay , The blue and crimson Columbine , That Dasie and the Woodbine , And eke the blooming May . The sweetest flowers for posies , Pinks , Gilliflowers and Roses , I gathered in their prime : The flowers of Musk-millions , Come blow me down sweet-William , With Rosemary and Time . The Larksheele , and the Lily , The Flag and Daffadilly , The Wallflower sweet of smell : The Maidenblush , and Cowslip , The Peagle and the Tulip , That does in sweet excel . The Violet and Grediline , The odoriferous Eglantine , With Thrift and Honesty , The Muskerose sweet and dainty , With others flowers plenty , Oxlops and Piony . The Gilliflowers variety , Of every colour severally , The Lady smack and Pancy : The Bachelors button , fair and fine , The Primerose and the Sops-in-wine , With them the Maidens fancy . The time-observing Marigold , Most fair and lovely to behold , I plucked among the rest , The white and read Carnation , The senses recreation , With other flowers the best . The flowers fit for smelling , Whose sweet is far excelling , All the perfumes of Art , I pulled up each several , And made a Posy therewithal , To bear to my Sweetheart . The second part , To the same tune . S Weet Basill and sweet Margerum The Cowslip of Jerusalem , The Crowfoot and Seaflower , The Startup and kiss me , A flower that shall not miss me , In my true Lovers bower . The Lady of Essex fair , A flower passing sweet and rare , I in the midst did place , Because my Love is fairest , And of all maids the rarest , In body , and in face . These flowers being culled , And their branches pulled , Did yield a fragrant sent : Observing their fit places , I bound them in bridelaces , And to my Love I went . In hope she would receive them , To th'end that I might give them , As pledges of my love , To her whose radiant beauty Did bind me to this duty , Hoping shee'l never remove . Her permanent affection To me , who by election , Am hers while life does last : These flowers did resemble My thoughts which never dissemble , But hold both smell and taste . When I had made this Nosegay , With joyful heart I took my way , To find out my true Love : Who for my absence mourned , Until that I returned , As does the Turtle Dove . At last I found her sporting , With other Maids consorting , Close by a River side : My posy not refused , When she the same perused , Upon her arm she tide . ( Quoth she ) although these flowers Will wither in few hours , Yet take my word , Sweetheart , My love to thee shall never decay , Till death does my life away , From thee I'll never depart . The like to her I vowed , And while the time allowed , About such things we talked : At length because it waxed late , We for that time did leave our prate , And from each other walked . When with a mild behaviour She thanks me for my favour , And wore it for my sake : With interchanging kisses , The rest remains in wishes , Unwilling leave we take . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . A Posy of rare Flowers , Gathered by a Youngman for his Mistress . To a delectable new tune . TO He Summer's Sun ore-heating , Within a harbour sitting , Under a Marble shade , For my true Love the fairest , And flowers the rarest , A Posy thus I made . The first and last for trusting , Is called Everlasting , I pulled from the Bay , The blue and crimson Columbine , That Dasie and the Woodbine , And eke the blooming May . The sweetest flowers for posies , Pinks , Gilliflowers and Roses , I gathered in their prime : The flowers of Musk-millions , Come blow me down sweet-William , With Rosemary and Time . The Larksheele , and the Lily , The Flag and Daffadilly , The Wallflower sweet of smell : The Maidenblush , and Cowslip , The Peagle and the Tulip , That does in sweet excel . The Violet and Grediline , The odoriferous Eglantine , With Thrift and Honesty , The Muskerose sweet and dainty , With others flowers plenty , Oxlops and Piony . The Gilliflowers variety , Of every colour severally , The Lady smack and Pancy : The Bachelors button , fair and fine , The Primerose and the Sops-in-wine , With them the Maidens fancy . The time-observing Marigold , Most fair and lovely to behold , I plucked among the rest , The white and read Carnation , The senses recreation , With other flowers the best . The flowers fit for smelling , Whose sweet is far excelling , All the perfumes of Art , I pulled up each several , And made a Posy therewithal , To bear to my Sweetheart . The second part , To the same tune . S Weet Basill and sweet Margerum The Cowslip of Jerusalem , The Crowfoot and Seaflower , The Startup and kiss me , A flower that shall not miss me , In my true Lovers bower . The Lady of Essex fair , A flower passing sweet and rare , I in the midst did place , Because my Love is fairest , And of all maids the rarest , In body , and in face . These flowers being culled , And their branches pulled , Did yield a fragrant sent : Observing their fit places , I bound them in bridelaces , And to my Love I went . In hope she would receive them , To th'end that I might give them , As pledges of my love , To her whose radiant beauty Did bind me to this duty , Hoping shee'l never remove . Her permanent affection To me , who by election , Am hers while life does last : These flowers did resemble My thoughts which never dissemble , But hold both smell and taste . When I had made this Nosegay , With joyful heart I took my way , To find out my true Love : Who for my absence mourned , Until that I returned , As does the Turtle Dove . At last I found her sporting , With other Maids consorting , Close by a River side : My posy not refused , When she the same perused , Upon her arm she tide . ( Quoth she ) although these flowers Will wither in few hours , Yet take my word , Sweetheart , My love to thee shall never decay , Till death does my life away , From thee I'll never depart . The like to her I vowed , And while the time allowed , About such things we talked : At length because it waxed late , We for that time did leave our prate , And from each other walked . When with a mild behaviour She thanks me for my favour , And wore it for my sake : With interchanging kisses , The rest remains in wishes , Unwilling leave we take . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . 