The Judgement of Salomon : In discerning the true Mother from the false , by her compass - sion , giving sentence to divide the Child . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . W Hen David over Israel had ruled full forty years , And on his Throne securely sat , as plainly it appears : Stricken in years , and full of days , and nature almost spent , To set his son upon that Throne , his mind was fully bent . For fearing lest that he should die , without the choice of one : That might as he had done before fit still on Israels Throne : And to prevent the discord that among his sons might rise , He picks out one , and makes him King , before Death closed his eyes . Whose name was Salomon , a man , of rare , and excellent parts : Yea , such a man he was , that if any by their deserts Might claim a Crown , the Salomon , of whom the earth did ring , Deserve worser it , and none fitter could do David choose for King . Such was his wisdom , that the Queen of Sheba from the South Came , for to hear those words that did proceed out of his mouth : Which when sh'ad herd , pronounced them blessed , and happy for to be : That his Attendants were , and did wait on his Majesty . His wisdom made him shine more bright then did the Robes he wore , And made him in the peoples sighed to be respected more , Then all the costly Jemms that he , or ornaments had on : Or then the Throne that thus adorned , he used to fit upon . Whose wisdom was principally unto the world made known : In a just sentence that he gave to'th Harlots which did come To him for Justice , about a child , that both laid claim unto , Whose cause to hear he did assent , and did determine to . The second part . To the same tune . TO He Harlots standing then before the presence of the King : With faltering speech and trembling tongue , one strait declares the thing : Saying , my Lord we women had lately two children small , Which of all earthly joys we did esteem them most of all . We had them much about one time , and both were of one sex , And one house does contain us both , this this that does perplex My troubled soul th'one Harlot said , seeing her Child is dead , She labours all she can to have mine , in her Infants stead . For in the night she overlaid her child , and it did die : But waking straightway , she perceived , and this sad sighed did spy : She straightway rose , and forthwith came at midnight to my bed : And took from me my living child , and left with me hers dead . But in the morning when I waked , not knowing what was done ; By this vild woman which does seek , to bereave me of my son : And taking gently in mine arms , as then I thought , my child : I straight perceived it was not mine , and that I was beguiled . Nay , said the other Harlot then , the child that lives is mine : And that same Infant that is dead , assuredly was thine : That's false replied the other straight , for that that lives ( said she ) Is none of thine , I did it bear , and it belongs to me . Thus whatsoever the one did say , the other did deny : And what the other did affirm , did th'other presently , Cried out upon as false and vain , nor would they ere they said , Nor possibly could quietness betwixt them both be made . Therefore they did implore the help , and wisdom of the King , Whose eye could only pierce into so difficult a thing : That he would graciously be pleased as he had herd it so : He would give sentence to their cause , which they would stand unto . Salomon caused the living child in the midst to be placed , Of both those Harlots that did seek each other to disgrace : And one of his servants he charged to fetch a sword straightway ; Which to him presently was brought without the least delay . Which sword he to his servant gave , putting it in his hand , Enjoining him to execute what ever he did command . Divide the child ( sayeth he ) and give to each of them a part : Which words did pierce the true Mother unto the very heart . Who humbly did beseech the King , rather then it should die , To give it to the other all , that with her did stand by : Nay answered the false Mother then , the King hath it decided : Neither thine , nor mine , the child shall be , but let it be divided . King Salomon weighed both their words , and looking on them both , Did say , that she the Mother is that most compassion shew'th : Give her the child that did lament , for such and Infant pretty , And when it should have mangled been , was moved unto pity . That Mother gladly did receive her tender Babe again : Which the false Mother cruelly desired might be slain : And when the people herd the words , and sentence of the King : Cried all with voice most loud , God bless Salomon in every thing . FINIS At London printed for Henry Gosson . The Judgement of Salomon : In discerning the true Mother from the false , by her compass - sion , giving sentence to divide the Child . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . W Hen David over Israel had ruled full forty years , And on his Throne securely sat , as plainly it appears : Stricken in years , and full of days , and nature almost spent , To set his son upon that Throne , his mind was fully bent . For fearing lest that he should die , without the choice of one : That might as he had done before fit still on Israels Throne : And to prevent the discord that among his sons might rise , He picks out one , and makes him King , before Death closed his eyes . Whose name was Salomon , a man , of rare , and excellent parts : Yea , such a man he was , that if any by their deserts Might claim a Crown , the Salomon , of whom the earth did ring , Deserve worser it , and none fitter could do David choose for King . Such was his wisdom , that the Queen of Sheba from the South Came , for to hear those words that did proceed out of his mouth : Which when sh'ad herd , pronounced them blessed , and happy for to be : That his Attendants were , and did wait on his Majesty . His wisdom made him shine more bright then did the Robes he wore , And made him in the peoples sighed to be respected more , Then all the costly Jemms that he , or ornaments had on : Or then the Throne that thus adorned , he used to fit upon . Whose wisdom was principally unto the world made known : In a just sentence that he gave to'th Harlots which did come To him for Justice , about a child , that both laid claim unto , Whose cause to hear he did assent , and did determine to . The second part . To the same tune . TO He Harlots standing then before the presence of the King : With faltering speech and trembling tongue , one strait declares the thing : Saying , my Lord we women had lately two children small , Which of all earthly joys we did esteem them most of all . We had them much about one time , and both were of one sex , And one house does contain us both , this this that does perplex My troubled soul th'one Harlot said , seeing her Child is dead , She labours all she can to have mine , in her Infants stead . For in the night she overlaid her child , and it did die : But waking straightway , she perceived , and this sad sighed did spy : She straightway rose , and forthwith came at midnight to my bed : And took from me my living child , and left with me hers dead . But in the morning when I waked , not knowing what was done ; By this vild woman which does seek , to bereave me of my son : And taking gently in mine arms , as then I thought , my child : I straight perceived it was not mine , and that I was beguiled . Nay , said the other Harlot then , the child that lives is mine : And that same Infant that is dead , assuredly was thine : That's false replied the other straight , for that that lives ( said she ) Is none of thine , I did it bear , and it belongs to me . Thus whatsoever the one did say , the other did deny : And what the other did affirm , did th'other presently , Cried out upon as false and vain , nor would they ere they said , Nor possibly could quietness betwixt them both be made . Therefore they did implore the help , and wisdom of the King , Whose eye could only pierce into so difficult a thing : That he would graciously be pleased as he had herd it so : He would give sentence to their cause , which they would stand unto . Salomon caused the living child in the midst to be placed , Of both those Harlots that did seek each other to disgrace : And one of his servants he charged to fetch a sword straightway ; Which to him presently was brought without the least delay . Which sword he to his servant gave , putting it in his hand , Enjoining him to execute what ever he did command . Divide the child ( sayeth he ) and give to each of them a part : Which words did pierce the true Mother unto the very heart . Who humbly did beseech the King , rather then it should die , To give it to the other all , that with her did stand by : Nay answered the false Mother then , the King hath it decided : Neither thine , nor mine , the child shall be , but let it be divided . King Salomon weighed both their words , and looking on them both , Did say , that she the Mother is that most compassion shew'th : Give her the child that did lament , for such and Infant pretty , And when it should have mangled been , was moved unto pity . That Mother gladly did receive her tender Babe again : Which the false Mother cruelly desired might be slain : And when the people herd the words , and sentence of the King : Cried all with voice most loud , God bless Salomon in every thing . FINIS At London printed for Henry Gosson . 