Coridons commendation in the praise of his love the fair Phillis . To a pleasant new tune . M Y Love she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , For she will all her business do , I know she is fair and honest too . My Phillis is full of favours , And fair as fair may be : Silly Swains leave off your labours , She will love no man but me . For she is most fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : And will each virtuous business do , I know she is fair and honest too . No sugared tempting tongue , Nor golden promise fair , Can do my Phillis wrong , Or her good name impair . For she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : And will do still what maids will do , Yet is she fair and honest too . She hath a charming voice , Not like her in music many : Yet Phillis remains my choice , And will not be wone by any . For she is most fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : And will show favour as oath [ e ] rs do Yet is she fair and hon [ est ] [ too . ] If Cupid bend his bow , His shaft she turns aside , And tells him whither to go , That can it better abide . So she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : And will perform what others do , Yet is she fair and honest too . My Phillis can Garlands make , To set on her lovers head : And gallantly undertake , To deck out a Bridal bed . Yet is she fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And will show love as Maidens do , Yet she is fair and honest too . My Phillis can foot it right And follow the Bagpipes droane : When Coridon comes in sighed , Experience must be shown . So still she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And take pleasure as others do , Yet is she fair and honest too . When mirthful May comes in , My Phillis will un [ worser ] er [ tO ] ache , [ ? ] that shall begin , [ ? ] break . The second Part. To the same tune . Y Et still she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And make sport as maids will do , Yet is she fair and honest too . No lass in all our town , In sporting or in play , Can put my Phillis down , She bears so great a sway . Yet is she fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : Though she can such like pastimes do , Yet is she fair and honest too . Her huswiferie's well known , Theres nothing goes to wrack , She keeps full well her own , While other good lasses lack . Yet is she fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And can good household-business do , I know she is fair and honest too . My love can brew and bake , As other huswives can : And make a boulied cake , To give her neighbours man , Yet is she true and honest , I know she is true and honest , Though she such friendly tricks can do , Yet is she true and honest too , My love can milk a Cow , And teach a calf to suck : And knows the manner how , To set a brooded Duck . So is she wise and honest , I know she is wise and honest : And can such household business do , So is she wise and honest too . My loves a lovely lass , Her Coridon must love , And times will come to pass , When maids and men may prove . For she is true and honest , I know she is true and honest , And will love as maids will do , Yet is she fair and honest too . You shepherd swains be wise , Choose one as I have done , That will not be precise , But be with reason won . For she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And will her husbands pleasures do , Therefore she is fair and honest too . FINIS . Printed at London for J. TO . Coridons commendation in the praise of his love the fair Phillis . To a pleasant new tune . M Y Love she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , For she will all her business do , I know she is fair and honest too . My Phillis is full of favours , And fair as fair may be : Silly Swains leave off your labours , She will love no man but me . For she is most fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : And will each virtuous business do , I know she is fair and honest too . No sugared tempting tongue , Nor golden promise fair , Can do my Phillis wrong , Or her good name impair . For she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : And will do still what maids will do , Yet is she fair and honest too . She hath a charming voice , Not like her in music many : Yet Phillis remains my choice , And will not be wone by any . For she is most fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : And will show favour as oath [ e ] rs do Yet is she fair and hon [ est ] [ too . ] If Cupid bend his bow , His shaft she turns aside , And tells him whither to go , That can it better abide . So she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : And will perform what others do , Yet is she fair and honest too . My Phillis can Garlands make , To set on her lovers head : And gallantly undertake , To deck out a Bridal bed . Yet is she fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And will show love as Maidens do , Yet she is fair and honest too . My Phillis can foot it right And follow the Bagpipes droane : When Coridon comes in sighed , Experience must be shown . So still she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And take pleasure as others do , Yet is she fair and honest too . When mirthful May comes in , My Phillis will un [ worser ] er [ tO ] ache , [ ? ] that shall begin , [ ? ] break . The second Part. To the same tune . Y Et still she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And make sport as maids will do , Yet is she fair and honest too . No lass in all our town , In sporting or in play , Can put my Phillis down , She bears so great a sway . Yet is she fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest : Though she can such like pastimes do , Yet is she fair and honest too . Her huswiferie's well known , Theres nothing goes to wrack , She keeps full well her own , While other good lasses lack . Yet is she fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And can good household-business do , I know she is fair and honest too . My love can brew and bake , As other huswives can : And make a boulied cake , To give her neighbours man , Yet is she true and honest , I know she is true and honest , Though she such friendly tricks can do , Yet is she true and honest too , My love can milk a Cow , And teach a calf to suck : And knows the manner how , To set a brooded Duck . So is she wise and honest , I know she is wise and honest : And can such household business do , So is she wise and honest too . My loves a lovely lass , Her Coridon must love , And times will come to pass , When maids and men may prove . For she is true and honest , I know she is true and honest , And will love as maids will do , Yet is she fair and honest too . You shepherd swains be wise , Choose one as I have done , That will not be precise , But be with reason won . For she is fair and honest , I know she is fair and honest , And will her husbands pleasures do , Therefore she is fair and honest too . FINIS . Printed at London for J. T. 