The Lovers Lamentation to his love Nanny , To the tune of Did you see Nan to day ? W Hen that I call to mind my great extremities , Then no way can I find ease for my misery's : I fit me down to weep forced by folly , To wear the Garland gay , birch and green holly . I droop , being discontent , but no man knows it : I curse my woeful state , my gesture shows it : My heart with bleeding tears my eyes distilling , With woeful sighs and sobs , Venus blood spilling . Did you see Nan to day my pretty Nanny , My heart , my Love , my joy , and mine own Cunny ? Banish her company , I live in misery , This is the life I led for my sweet Honey . If I mistake me not , thou art a kind one , Should I go seek a love where should I find one : It may be gentle sweet , if thou wilt prove me , Fancy may guide me so that I may love thee . Although I be but young do not forgo me , I have loved ever since first I did know thee : And love thee still I will if thou wilt prove me , I can say nothing else , but that I love thee . Tell me then gentle sweet art thou not cruel ? And on the fire of Love , wilt thou put fuel ? Do not disdain me through thy denial , But of my constancy , hazard a trial . Be not coy , gentle sweet though I commend thee , This but the point of love so to befriend thee , Thy Virtues merit more then I will give thee , Thou art a pretty soul sweet heart believe me . Drive away all my fears with thy sweet kisses , Banish those brinish tears , with kind loves blisses : Make me a happy man crown with glory , That I may cast away birch and green holly . So shall the heart of mine that now lies bleeding : Rest in that breast of thine and therein feeding : [ ? ] uing most joyfully , your time still spendinng , [ ? ] ng and rejoice with me , to your lives ending . The Flattering Lovers farewell to his Love Nanny . To the tune of Virginia . O F late it was my chance , a walking for to be , In Summer time , where as I met , with merry company , Which well contented me , although there were not many : I herd one sing melodiously , I think her name was Nanny , Her sweet and comely voice , her silver sounding note , Cast such and echo through the dale , as passes all report : I wish no better sport , nor sweeter pleasures any , Nor nothing else could mere delight then still to be with Nanny . But who would think the Forest , could foster such a bird : Or that the banks of Ivy boughs could such a one afford , I tell you at a word , miles have I passed many , Yet never herd in all my life , so sweet a Lass as Nanny . Her wit exceeds Ulisses , her beauty Hellen fair : For comeliness Dianaes Nymph's , with her may not compare . You Swaggerers may fear , lest that they all do miss her : Theres none of you that are , once worthy for to kiss her , If that Apolloes Lute , among us were exiled , Her pretty wit would it confute , and make it somewhat mild . No more can I rehearse , the Irish Harp or any , Therefore I sing , I cry , I call , cast all your caps at Nanny . The Nightingale may cease , and never sing again : So may the birds within the woods their singing is in vain . Their music I disdain , if there be never so many : Their tunes are not to be compared unto thy voice sweet Nanny . There is no thing so choice , or pleasing unto me , As is her sweet melodious voice , and heavenly harmony , Let not these Verses be offensive un [ tO ] oh any : A faithful friend the writer was , unto his pretty Nanny . Now to conclde , at last , and briefly make and end : Her lips have still so sweet a taste , that none can them amend : I never tasted them so much , but I will taste them less : Wherefore my Nanny do not grutch because I have sweet Besse . Finis . Imprinted at London for E.W. The Comfortable answer of Nanny , showing her constant Love to her best beloved . To to tune of Virginia . I Am thy Lover nameless , and so I will be still : So that I may be blameless , then call me what you will . I hope of that which is not , yet once I trust will be : Remove from that I will not , till proof thereof I see . Though Fortune do not favour me , according to my will : The proof of my behaviour , is for to love you still , Intending not to change , so long as life does last : But in thy youth to run thy raze , till youthful days be passed . And though I am far from thee , I will thee not deny : I love thee , and no more , trust me assuredly . Your virtuous love I wish to have , for Riches I defy : I hope to have in time of need , shall serve both you and me . Time is and herb of Virtue , that grows under the Sun : Oft times , all things are daily lost , in time all things are done . But time is for to try , which needs be tried most : Hoping in God , while life does last , you will be true and just . When I beheld the Marigolds , which smells most pleasant well : The moan I make for my Loves sake , no living tongue can tell . But some do say , the Marigold , does smell most pleasant well : And some do say , the rose so read in colour does excel . Lavender is for Lovers true , which I do mean to keep : Rosemary for remembrance , till we again do meet . Carnations is for graciousness , mark this well by the way : Give no regard to flatterers , nor pass not what they say . So many times are here be lines , and letters for the spell : Or drops of rain between us twaine so many times farewell . So many Creatures of the earth , both carnal , tame and fell , Fish in the seas , fowls in the air so many times farewell . And so farewell mine own true love , farewell my Sugar-sweet : I shall think it ten thousand years till we again do meet . Finis . At London printed for E . W.The Lovers Lamentation to his love Nanny , To the tune of Did you see Nan to day ? W Hen that I call to mind my great extremities , Then no way can I find ease for my misery's : I fit me down to weep forced by folly , To wear the Garland gay , birch and green holly . I droop , being discontent , but no man knows it : I curse my woeful state , my gesture shows it : My heart with bleeding tears my eyes distilling , With woeful sighs and sobs , Venus blood spilling . Did you see Nan to day my pretty Nanny , My heart , my Love , my joy , and mine own Cunny ? Banish her company , I live in misery , This is the life I led for my sweet Honey . If I mistake me not , thou art a kind one , Should I go seek a love where should I find one : It may be gentle sweet , if thou wilt prove me , Fancy may guide me so that I may love thee . Although I be but young do not forgo me , I have loved ever since first I did know thee : And love thee still I will if thou wilt prove me , I can say nothing else , but that I love thee . Tell me then gentle sweet art thou not cruel ? And on the fire of Love , wilt thou put fuel ? Do not disdain me through thy denial , But of my constancy , hazard a trial . Be not coy , gentle sweet though I commend thee , This but the point of love so to befriend thee , Thy Virtues merit more then I will give thee , Thou art a pretty soul sweet heart believe me . Drive away all my fears with thy sweet kisses , Banish those brinish tears , with kind loves blisses : Make me a happy man crown with glory , That I may cast away birch and green holly . So shall the heart of mine that now lies bleeding : Rest in that breast of thine and therein feeding : [ ? ] uing most joyfully , your time still spendinng , [ ? ] ng and rejoice with me , to your lives ending . The Flattering Lovers farewell to his Love Nanny . To the tune of Virginia . O F late it was my chance , a walking for to be , In Summer time , where as I met , with merry company , Which well contented me , although there were not many : I herd one sing melodiously , I think her name was Nanny , Her sweet and comely voice , her silver sounding note , Cast such and echo through the dale , as passes all report : I wish no better sport , nor sweeter pleasures any , Nor nothing else could mere delight then still to be with Nanny . But who would think the Forest , could foster such a bird : Or that the banks of Ivy boughs could such a one afford , I tell you at a word , miles have I passed many , Yet never herd in all my life , so sweet a Lass as Nanny . Her wit exceeds Ulisses , her beauty Hellen fair : For comeliness Dianaes Nymph's , with her may not compare . You Swaggerers may fear , lest that they all do miss her : Theres none of you that are , once worthy for to kiss her , If that Apolloes Lute , among us were exiled , Her pretty wit would it confute , and make it somewhat mild . No more can I rehearse , the Irish Harp or any , Therefore I sing , I cry , I call , cast all your caps at Nanny . The Nightingale may cease , and never sing again : So may the birds within the woods their singing is in vain . Their music I disdain , if there be never so many : Their tunes are not to be compared unto thy voice sweet Nanny . There is no thing so choice , or pleasing unto me , As is her sweet melodious voice , and heavenly harmony , Let not these Verses be offensive un [ tO ] oh any : A faithful friend the writer was , unto his pretty Nanny . Now to conclde , at last , and briefly make and end : Her lips have still so sweet a taste , that none can them amend : I never tasted them so much , but I will taste them less : Wherefore my Nanny do not grutch because I have sweet Besse . Finis . Imprinted at London for E.W. The Comfortable answer of Nanny , showing her constant Love to her best beloved . To to tune of Virginia . I Am thy Lover nameless , and so I will be still : So that I may be blameless , then call me what you will . I hope of that which is not , yet once I trust will be : Remove from that I will not , till proof thereof I see . Though Fortune do not favour me , according to my will : The proof of my behaviour , is for to love you still , Intending not to change , so long as life does last : But in thy youth to run thy raze , till youthful days be passed . And though I am far from thee , I will thee not deny : I love thee , and no more , trust me assuredly . Your virtuous love I wish to have , for Riches I defy : I hope to have in time of need , shall serve both you and me . Time is and herb of Virtue , that grows under the Sun : Oft times , all things are daily lost , in time all things are done . But time is for to try , which needs be tried most : Hoping in God , while life does last , you will be true and just . When I beheld the Marigolds , which smells most pleasant well : The moan I make for my Loves sake , no living tongue can tell . But some do say , the Marigold , does smell most pleasant well : And some do say , the rose so read in colour does excel . Lavender is for Lovers true , which I do mean to keep : Rosemary for remembrance , till we again do meet . Carnations is for graciousness , mark this well by the way : Give no regard to flatterers , nor pass not what they say . So many times are here be lines , and letters for the spell : Or drops of rain between us twaine so many times farewell . So many Creatures of the earth , both carnal , tame and fell , Fish in the seas , fowls in the air so many times farewell . And so farewell mine own true love , farewell my Sugar-sweet : I shall think it ten thousand years till we again do meet . Finis . At London printed for E.W. 