A most excellent and virtuous Ballad of the patient Grissell : To the tune of the Brides good morrow . A Noble Marquess , As he did ride a hunting , hard by a Forest side , A fair and comely Maiden , As she did fit [ a ] spinning , his gentle e [ y ] e espied ; Most fair and lovely , And of comely grace was she , although in simp [ l ] e attire : She sung [ full ] sweetly , With pleasant voice melodiously , which set the [ L ] ords heart on fire : The more he looked the more he might , Beauty bred his hearts delight , And to this Damsel then he went : God speed ( quoth he ) thou famous flower Fair Mistress of this homely bower , Where love and virtue dwells with sweet content . With comely gesture , And modest mild behaviour , she bade him welcome then , She entertained him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen : The Noble Ma [ r ] quesse In's heart felt such a flame , which set his senses at strife : Quoth he , fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my wife . Grissell is my name quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden , and of parents poor . Nay Grissell thou art rich , he said , A ver [ tO ] ous fair and comely Maid , Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed : Her country Russet Was changed to silk and velvet , as to her state agreed : And when tO [ h ] at she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined bright , Far staining every Other fair and princely Dame that did appear in her sighed . Many envied her therefore , Because she was of parents poor , And betwixt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this and some said that , And some did call her beggars brat , And to her Lord they would her oft dispraise . O Noble Marquesse , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us , thus basely for to wed , That might have got And honourable Lady into your Princely bed ? Who will not now Your Noble issue still deride , which shall hereafter be born : That are of blood so base Born by the mother's side , the which will bring them in scorn ? Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your image may renowned be . Thus every day they seemed to prate , That maliced Grissels good estate , Who all this while took it most patiently : When that the Marquess Did see that they were bent thus against his faithful wife , Whom he most dear [ i ] lie , Tenderly and entirely beloved as his life : Minding in secret For to prove her patient heart , thereby her foes to disgrace , Thinking to show her A hard discourtieous part , that men might pity her case : Great with child this Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly children at one birth she had , A son and daughter God had sent , Which did their father well content , And which did make their Mother's heart full glad . Great royal feasting Was at this children's Christening , and Princely triumph made , Sixe weeks together , All Nobles that came thither , were entertained and stayed : And when all these pleasant Sportings quite were done , the Marquess a messenger sent , For his young daughter , And his pretty smiling son , declaring his full intent , Now that the babes must murdered be , For so the Marquess did decree : Come let me have the children , then he said . With that fair Grissell wept full soar She wrung her hands , & amp ; said no more My gracious Lord must have his will obeyed . The second part , To the same tune . S He took the Babes Even from the nursing Ladies , between her tender arms : She often wishes , With many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms , Farewell , farewell , A thousand times , my children deer , never shall I see you again : This long of me , Your sad and woeful mother here , for whose sake both must be slain : Had I been born of royal raze , You might have lived in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness . Come messenger of death [ ( ] quoth she ) Take my dearest Babes to thee . And to their Father my complaints express . He took the children , And to his Noble Master he brought them both with speed , Who in secret sent them Unto a Noble Lady , to be brought up indeed : Then to fair Grissell , With a heavy heart he goes , where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shows , as if no grief she had known . ( Quoth he ) my children now are slain , What thinks fair Grissell of the same Sweet Grisell now declare thy mind to me . Sith you my Lord are pleased with it Poor Grissell thinks the actium fit , Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmur , Fair Grissell at thy honour , and I no joy can have , Till thou be ban [ i ] shed Both from my Court and presence , as they unjustly crave : Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou camest to me , In homely grey , Instead of Bysse and purest Pall , now all thy clothing must be . My Lady thou must be no more , Nor [ I ] thy Lord which grieves me soar The poorest life must now content thy mind . A groat to thee I must not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissell such great foes I find . When gentle Grissell Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment did from her lips arise ; Her velvet Gown Most patiently she slipped off , her keritle of silk with the same , Her Russet Gown Was brought again with many a scoff , to bear them her self she did frame When she was dressed in this array , And was ready for part away , God send long life unto my Lord ( quoth she ) Let no offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting kiss , With watery eyes , farewell my deer he said . From Princely Palace , Unto her father's Cottage , poor Grissell now is gone : Full sixteene winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon : And at this time through All the Land the speeches went , the Marquess should married be Unto a Noble Lady great , Of high descent , and to the same all parties did agree , The Marquis sent for Grissell fair , The Brides bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry : The Bride was with her brother come , Which was great joy to all and some , But Grissell took all this most patiently . And in the morning , When as they should be wedded , her patience then was tried , Grissell was charged , Her self in friendly manner , for to attire the Bride , Most willingly She gave consent to do the same , the Bride in her bravery was dressed , And presently The Noble Marquess thither came , with all his Lords at his request , Oh Grissell , I would ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Me thinks thy looks are waxed wondrous coy . With that they all began to smile , And Grissell she replied the while , God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved , To see his best beloved thus patient in distress , He stepped unto her , And by the hand he took her , these words he did express , Thou art my Bride , And all the Brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she And you that envied her estate , Whom I have made my loving mate Now blush for shame , and honour virtuous life . The Chronicles of lasting fame Shall evermore extol the name Of patient Grissell my most constant wife . Finis . Printed at London for H. Gossen . A most excellent and virtuous Ballad of the patient Grissell : To the tune of the Brides good morrow . A Noble Marquess , As he did ride a hunting , hard by a Forest side , A fair and comely Maiden , As she did fit [ a ] spinning , his gentle e [ y ] e espied ; Most fair and lovely , And of comely grace was she , although in simp [ l ] e attire : She sung [ full ] sweetly , With pleasant voice melodiously , which set the [ L ] ords heart on fire : The more he looked the more he might , Beauty bred his hearts delight , And to this Damsel then he went : God speed ( quoth he ) thou famous flower Fair Mistress of this homely bower , Where love and virtue dwells with sweet content . With comely gesture , And modest mild behaviour , she bade him welcome then , She entertained him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen : The Noble Ma [ r ] quesse In's heart felt such a flame , which set his senses at strife : Quoth he , fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my wife . Grissell is my name quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden , and of parents poor . Nay Grissell thou art rich , he said , A ver [ tO ] ous fair and comely Maid , Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed : Her country Russet Was changed to silk and velvet , as to her state agreed : And when tO [ h ] at she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined bright , Far staining every Other fair and princely Dame that did appear in her sighed . Many envied her therefore , Because she was of parents poor , And betwixt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this and some said that , And some did call her beggars brat , And to her Lord they would her oft dispraise . O Noble Marquesse , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us , thus basely for to wed , That might have got And honourable Lady into your Princely bed ? Who will not now Your Noble issue still deride , which shall hereafter be born : That are of blood so base Born by the mother's side , the which will bring them in scorn ? Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your image may renowned be . Thus every day they seemed to prate , That maliced Grissels good estate , Who all this while took it most patiently : When that the Marquess Did see that they were bent thus against his faithful wife , Whom he most dear [ i ] lie , Tenderly and entirely beloved as his life : Minding in secret For to prove her patient heart , thereby her foes to disgrace , Thinking to show her A hard discourtieous part , that men might pity her case : Great with child this Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly children at one birth she had , A son and daughter God had sent , Which did their father well content , And which did make their Mother's heart full glad . Great royal feasting Was at this children's Christening , and Princely triumph made , Sixe weeks together , All Nobles that came thither , were entertained and stayed : And when all these pleasant Sportings quite were done , the Marquess a messenger sent , For his young daughter , And his pretty smiling son , declaring his full intent , Now that the babes must murdered be , For so the Marquess did decree : Come let me have the children , then he said . With that fair Grissell wept full soar She wrung her hands , & amp ; said no more My gracious Lord must have his will obeyed . The second part , To the same tune . S He took the Babes Even from the nursing Ladies , between her tender arms : She often wishes , With many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms , Farewell , farewell , A thousand times , my children deer , never shall I see you again : This long of me , Your sad and woeful mother here , for whose sake both must be slain : Had I been born of royal raze , You might have lived in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness . Come messenger of death [ ( ] quoth she ) Take my dearest Babes to thee . And to their Father my complaints express . He took the children , And to his Noble Master he brought them both with speed , Who in secret sent them Unto a Noble Lady , to be brought up indeed : Then to fair Grissell , With a heavy heart he goes , where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shows , as if no grief she had known . ( Quoth he ) my children now are slain , What thinks fair Grissell of the same Sweet Grisell now declare thy mind to me . Sith you my Lord are pleased with it Poor Grissell thinks the actium fit , Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmur , Fair Grissell at thy honour , and I no joy can have , Till thou be ban [ i ] shed Both from my Court and presence , as they unjustly crave : Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou camest to me , In homely grey , Instead of Bysse and purest Pall , now all thy clothing must be . My Lady thou must be no more , Nor [ I ] thy Lord which grieves me soar The poorest life must now content thy mind . A groat to thee I must not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissell such great foes I find . When gentle Grissell Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment did from her lips arise ; Her velvet Gown Most patiently she slipped off , her keritle of silk with the same , Her Russet Gown Was brought again with many a scoff , to bear them her self she did frame When she was dressed in this array , And was ready for part away , God send long life unto my Lord ( quoth she ) Let no offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting kiss , With watery eyes , farewell my deer he said . From Princely Palace , Unto her father's Cottage , poor Grissell now is gone : Full sixteene winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon : And at this time through All the Land the speeches went , the Marquess should married be Unto a Noble Lady great , Of high descent , and to the same all parties did agree , The Marquis sent for Grissell fair , The Brides bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry : The Bride was with her brother come , Which was great joy to all and some , But Grissell took all this most patiently . And in the morning , When as they should be wedded , her patience then was tried , Grissell was charged , Her self in friendly manner , for to attire the Bride , Most willingly She gave consent to do the same , the Bride in her bravery was dressed , And presently The Noble Marquess thither came , with all his Lords at his request , Oh Grissell , I would ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Me thinks thy looks are waxed wondrous coy . With that they all began to smile , And Grissell she replied the while , God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved , To see his best beloved thus patient in distress , He stepped unto her , And by the hand he took her , these words he did express , Thou art my Bride , And all the Brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she And you that envied her estate , Whom I have made my loving mate Now blush for shame , and honour virtuous life . The Chronicles of lasting fame Shall evermore extol the name Of patient Grissell my most constant wife . Finis . Printed at London for H. Gossen . 