The woeful complaint , and lamentable death of a forsaken Lover . To a pleasant new tune . WORSER Own by a forest where as I did pass , to see that sport abroad there was , Walking by a pleasant spring , the Birds in sundry notes did sing . Long time wandering here and there , to see what sports in forests were , At length I herd one make great moan , saying , From me all joys are gone . I gave good heed unto the same , musing from whence this Echo came : But by no means I could devise , from whence this sorrowful found did rise , But in that place did still remain , until I herd it once again . Then presently I herd one say , Oh death , come take my life away . I looked down upon my right hand , a sort of pleasant trees did stand : And under them I did behold a pleasant place with shadows cold . A sumptuous place was in the same , musing from whence this Echo came : Then in that place I did perceive , a Gentleman both fine and brave . And from that place he did come down , casting from him a mourning Gown , Walking up and down the place , me thought a proper man he was : Thus to himself he did lament , wishing to God his days were spent , His torments did increase so soar , his heart was able to bear no more : I stepped into a hollow tree , because I would his passion see : With folded arms looking to skies , the tears alas stood in his eyes : And careless of his life he seemed , pity he was no more esteemed : Then down he laid him on the ground : no ease to sorrow can be found . Thus he lamented in woeful case , seven long years within few days , Saying , While I live , I must remain , I find no ease to help my pain : For she that should my sorrows remove , she does disdain to be my Love , And hath been since that she did hear , that I good will to her did bear . the gods above come ease my pain , sith heavy grief does me constrain , For while my corpse remains , on earth , shall show the causes of my death . Every tree that here does stand , shall be engraven with mine own hand , That they long time may witness bear , Love was the cause I died here . Nature did to her so much right , scorning to take the help of Art : And in as many virtues dight , as ever did embrace a heart . Being so good , so truly tried , Oh some for less were deified , Full of pity as may be , and yet perhaps not so to me . When first I saw her pleasant face , me thought a joyful sighed it was : Her beauty took my wits away , I knew not how one word to say , A Gentleman took her to dance , she gallantly her self could prance , And kept her order in good time , I wish to God she had been mine . But when I thought she had been mine own , then was she farthest from me flown : She gave no ear unto my cry , which makes me here in sorrow die , For she was in another mind , which to my pain I often find , Of all my hope's I am beguiled , which makes me walk in woods so wild . The second part , To the same tune . TO Oh silent trees I make my moan , and birds and beasts do hear me groan , Yet she that should my grief remove , disloyal wretch to me did prove . My love to her was constant pure , and to my end will so endure , And Jove to her I hope will send a grieved mind before her end . I have forsaken friends and kin , my days to end these woods within , My pleasure passed I now do leave , sweet Saviour now my soul receive . Bear witness heaven of my grief , to ease my heart send some relief , Fair Maids , unto your lovers be true , if first be good , change not for new . O young men all , be warned by me : gaze not too much on woman's beauty , Lest that you be so fettered fast , you cannot be enlarged at last . Some women's wills they are well known , in love oft changing stick to none : They'le swear they love you with their heart , when mind and tongue are both apart . My love to her I did reveal , and from her nothing did conceal , Though at the first she seemed coy . she said at the last , I was her joy , And none but I her love should have , what need I any more to crave ? But Haggard-like she me abused , another chosen and I refused . When he had bewailed his sorrows long , he took a Lute that by him hung , And on the lute he sweetly played , and unto it these words he said : Oh death , when will the hour come , that I have waited on so long ? For while I live I languish still , finding no help to ease my ill . Then quite he flung his lute away , and took a sword that by him lay , Says , Oft thou hast been thy master's friend , and now thou shalt his torments end . He gave true sentence in that place , to end his life in a woeful case . The hilt he struck down to the ground , and gave himself a deadly wound . Then unto him I ran amain , but out alas it was all in vain : For long before to him I came , his death he had upon the same . I found his grave was ready made , wherein I thought he should be laid . And in that place I laid him down , and over spread his mourning Gown . Over his Grave his sword I laid , whereon his death he had received , Upon his Lute a peal I rung , and by the place the same I hung . Then I beheld on every tree , her name that was his only joy , Which long before his face did stand , because she god the [ upp ] er hand . This Maid that did doe all this wrong , to live a Maid thought it overlong , Married she is to such a one , that daily makes her sighs and groan , Her coyness to her former Love , disloyal then , now truly proves : Take heed fair Maids , for you may see wrongs always will revenged be : Thus you women will use your skill , let us poor men say what we will . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . The woeful complaint , and lamentable death of a forsaken Lover . To a pleasant new tune . WORSER Own by a forest where as I did pass , to see that sport abroad there was , Walking by a pleasant spring , the Birds in sundry notes did sing . Long time wandering here and there , to see what sports in forests were , At length I herd one make great moan , saying , From me all joys are gone . I gave good heed unto the same , musing from whence this Echo came : But by no means I could devise , from whence this sorrowful found did rise , But in that place did still remain , until I herd it once again . Then presently I herd one say , Oh death , come take my life away . I looked down upon my right hand , a sort of pleasant trees did stand : And under them I did behold a pleasant place with shadows cold . A sumptuous place was in the same , musing from whence this Echo came : Then in that place I did perceive , a Gentleman both fine and brave . And from that place he did come down , casting from him a mourning Gown , Walking up and down the place , me thought a proper man he was : Thus to himself he did lament , wishing to God his days were spent , His torments did increase so soar , his heart was able to bear no more : I stepped into a hollow tree , because I would his passion see : With folded arms looking to skies , the tears alas stood in his eyes : And careless of his life he seemed , pity he was no more esteemed : Then down he laid him on the ground : no ease to sorrow can be found . Thus he lamented in woeful case , seven long years within few days , Saying , While I live , I must remain , I find no ease to help my pain : For she that should my sorrows remove , she does disdain to be my Love , And hath been since that she did hear , that I good will to her did bear . the gods above come ease my pain , sith heavy grief does me constrain , For while my corpse remains , on earth , shall show the causes of my death . Every tree that here does stand , shall be engraven with mine own hand , That they long time may witness bear , Love was the cause I died here . Nature did to her so much right , scorning to take the help of Art : And in as many virtues dight , as ever did embrace a heart . Being so good , so truly tried , Oh some for less were deified , Full of pity as may be , and yet perhaps not so to me . When first I saw her pleasant face , me thought a joyful sighed it was : Her beauty took my wits away , I knew not how one word to say , A Gentleman took her to dance , she gallantly her self could prance , And kept her order in good time , I wish to God she had been mine . But when I thought she had been mine own , then was she farthest from me flown : She gave no ear unto my cry , which makes me here in sorrow die , For she was in another mind , which to my pain I often find , Of all my hope's I am beguiled , which makes me walk in woods so wild . The second part , To the same tune . TO Oh silent trees I make my moan , and birds and beasts do hear me groan , Yet she that should my grief remove , disloyal wretch to me did prove . My love to her was constant pure , and to my end will so endure , And Jove to her I hope will send a grieved mind before her end . I have forsaken friends and kin , my days to end these woods within , My pleasure passed I now do leave , sweet Saviour now my soul receive . Bear witness heaven of my grief , to ease my heart send some relief , Fair Maids , unto your lovers be true , if first be good , change not for new . O young men all , be warned by me : gaze not too much on woman's beauty , Lest that you be so fettered fast , you cannot be enlarged at last . Some women's wills they are well known , in love oft changing stick to none : They'le swear they love you with their heart , when mind and tongue are both apart . My love to her I did reveal , and from her nothing did conceal , Though at the first she seemed coy . she said at the last , I was her joy , And none but I her love should have , what need I any more to crave ? But Haggard-like she me abused , another chosen and I refused . When he had bewailed his sorrows long , he took a Lute that by him hung , And on the lute he sweetly played , and unto it these words he said : Oh death , when will the hour come , that I have waited on so long ? For while I live I languish still , finding no help to ease my ill . Then quite he flung his lute away , and took a sword that by him lay , Says , Oft thou hast been thy master's friend , and now thou shalt his torments end . He gave true sentence in that place , to end his life in a woeful case . The hilt he struck down to the ground , and gave himself a deadly wound . Then unto him I ran amain , but out alas it was all in vain : For long before to him I came , his death he had upon the same . I found his grave was ready made , wherein I thought he should be laid . And in that place I laid him down , and over spread his mourning Gown . Over his Grave his sword I laid , whereon his death he had received , Upon his Lute a peal I rung , and by the place the same I hung . Then I beheld on every tree , her name that was his only joy , Which long before his face did stand , because she god the [ upp ] er hand . This Maid that did doe all this wrong , to live a Maid thought it overlong , Married she is to such a one , that daily makes her sighs and groan , Her coyness to her former Love , disloyal then , now truly proves : Take heed fair Maids , for you may see wrongs always will revenged be : Thus you women will use your skill , let us poor men say what we will . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . 