A Lovers complaint being forsaken of his Love . To a pleasant new tune . A Poor soul sat sighing under a Sycamore tree , Oh willow , willow , willow , With his hand on his bosom , his head on his knee , Oh willow , willow , willow , Oh willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green willow shall be my garland . He sighd in his singing , and after each groan , Come Willow , etc I am dead to all pleasure , my true love is gone , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc My Love she is turned , untrue she does prove , Oh Willow , etc She renders me nothing but hate for my love , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green willow , etc O pity me ( cried he ) you Lovers each one , Oh Willow , etc Her heart's hard as Marble , she rues not my moan , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc The cold streams ran by him , his eyes wept apace , Oh Willow , etc The salt tears fell from him , which drowned his face Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc The mute birds sat by him , made tame by his moan Oh Willow , willow , willow , etc . The Salt tears fell from him , which softened the storm Oh Willow , willow , willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green willow shall be my Garland . Let no body blame me , her scorns I do prove , Oh Willow , etc She was born to be fair , and I die for her love , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc O that beauty should harbour a heart that's so hard , Oh Willow , etc . My true lover electing , without all regard , Oh Willow , etc . Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . Let Love no more boast him , in Palace or Bower , Oh Willow , etc . For women are trothles , and slote in and hour , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . But what helps my complaining in vain I complain , Oh Willow , etc . I must patiently suffer her scorn and disdain , Oh Willow , etc . Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . Come all you forsaken , and fit down by me , Oh Willow , etc . He that plaineth of his false love , mine falser then she Oh Willow , etc . Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . The Willow wreathe wear I since my love did flee : Oh Willow , willow , willow , etc A Garland for Lovers forsaken most meet , Oh Willow , willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland , Printed at London for I.W. The second part of the forsaken Lover . To a new tune . L Owe laid by my sorrow , begotten by disdain Oh Willow , willow , willow , Against her to cruel , still I complain : Oh Willow , willow , willow , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my garland . O Love too injurious , to wound my poor heart , Oh Willow , etc . To suffer the triumph , and joy in my my smart , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . O Willow , Willow , willow , the willow Garland , Oh Willow , etc . A sign of her falseness before me does stand , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green willow , etc . As here lying pained , it stands in mine eye , Oh Willow , So hang ( it friends ) over me , in grave where I lie : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc In grave when I rest me , hang this to the view , Oh Willow , etc Of all that do know her , to blaze her untrue : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . With these words engraven , as Epitaph meet , Oh Willow , etc . Here lies one drunk Poison , for potion most sweet Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc Though she thus unkindly hath scorned my love , Oh Willow , etc . And carelessly smiles at the sorrows I prove , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . I cannot against her , unkindly exclaim , Oh Willow , etc . Cause once well I loved her , and honoured her name Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . The name of her sounded so sweet in mine ear , Oh Willow , etc . It caysd my heart lightly the name of my deer , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . As then it my comfort , it now is my grief : Oh Willow , etc It now brings me anguish , then brought me relief : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . Farewell fair falsehearted , plaints end in my breath Oh Willow , etc Thou dost loath me , I love thee though cause of my death : Oh Willow , willow , willow , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . FINIS . Printed at London for I . W.A Lovers complaint being forsaken of his Love . To a pleasant new tune . A Poor soul sat sighing under a Sycamore tree , Oh willow , willow , willow , With his hand on his bosom , his head on his knee , Oh willow , willow , willow , Oh willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green willow shall be my garland . He sighd in his singing , and after each groan , Come Willow , etc I am dead to all pleasure , my true love is gone , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc My Love she is turned , untrue she does prove , Oh Willow , etc She renders me nothing but hate for my love , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green willow , etc O pity me ( cried he ) you Lovers each one , Oh Willow , etc Her heart's hard as Marble , she rues not my moan , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc The cold streams ran by him , his eyes wept apace , Oh Willow , etc The salt tears fell from him , which drowned his face Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc The mute birds sat by him , made tame by his moan Oh Willow , willow , willow , etc . The Salt tears fell from him , which softened the storm Oh Willow , willow , willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green willow shall be my Garland . Let no body blame me , her scorns I do prove , Oh Willow , etc She was born to be fair , and I die for her love , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc O that beauty should harbour a heart that's so hard , Oh Willow , etc . My true lover electing , without all regard , Oh Willow , etc . Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . Let Love no more boast him , in Palace or Bower , Oh Willow , etc . For women are trothles , and slote in and hour , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . But what helps my complaining in vain I complain , Oh Willow , etc . I must patiently suffer her scorn and disdain , Oh Willow , etc . Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . Come all you forsaken , and fit down by me , Oh Willow , etc . He that plaineth of his false love , mine falser then she Oh Willow , etc . Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . The Willow wreathe wear I since my love did flee : Oh Willow , willow , willow , etc A Garland for Lovers forsaken most meet , Oh Willow , willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland , Printed at London for I.W. The second part of the forsaken Lover . To a new tune . L Owe laid by my sorrow , begotten by disdain Oh Willow , willow , willow , Against her to cruel , still I complain : Oh Willow , willow , willow , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my garland . O Love too injurious , to wound my poor heart , Oh Willow , etc . To suffer the triumph , and joy in my my smart , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . O Willow , Willow , willow , the willow Garland , Oh Willow , etc . A sign of her falseness before me does stand , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green willow , etc . As here lying pained , it stands in mine eye , Oh Willow , So hang ( it friends ) over me , in grave where I lie : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc In grave when I rest me , hang this to the view , Oh Willow , etc Of all that do know her , to blaze her untrue : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . With these words engraven , as Epitaph meet , Oh Willow , etc . Here lies one drunk Poison , for potion most sweet Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc Though she thus unkindly hath scorned my love , Oh Willow , etc . And carelessly smiles at the sorrows I prove , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . I cannot against her , unkindly exclaim , Oh Willow , etc . Cause once well I loved her , and honoured her name Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . The name of her sounded so sweet in mine ear , Oh Willow , etc . It caysd my heart lightly the name of my deer , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . As then it my comfort , it now is my grief : Oh Willow , etc It now brings me anguish , then brought me relief : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc . Farewell fair falsehearted , plaints end in my breath Oh Willow , etc Thou dost loath me , I love thee though cause of my death : Oh Willow , willow , willow , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . FINIS . Printed at London for I.W. 