The wiving age . OR A great Complaint of the Maidens of London , Who now for lack of good Husbands are undone , For now many Widows though never so old , Are caught up by young men for lucre of gold . To the tune of the Golden age . TO He Maidens of London are now in despair , How they shall get husbands , it is all their care , Though maidens be never so virtuous and fair , Yet old wealthy widows , are young men's chief ware . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . A young man need never take thought how to wive , For widows and maidens for husbands do strive , Heres scant men enough for them all left alive , They flock to the Church , like Bees to the Hive . O this is a wiving age , O this is a wiving age . Betwixt widows and maids there is a great strife , And either of them would feign be a wife , They all do cry out on this found single life , And long to dance after a Taber and Fife . O this is a wiving age . O this is wiving age . The maidens I doubt will be put to the worst , And widows though old , will be married all first , To drink the bride Posset good Lord how they thirst , Though they have foul faces there beautiful purst . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . Most Widows are impudent , they cannot blush , For speech of the people they care not a rush : They are very free and their money is flush . They will have a youngman their aprons to brush O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age , Young maidens are bashful , but widows are bold , They tempt poor young men with their silver and gold , For love now a days for money is sold , If she be worth treasure no matter how old . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . For one maid now married theres widows a score , Their husbands scant dead a whole fortnight before , They cannot live single they'le marry therefore . With any young man though he's never so poor . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . O is not this a pitiful case , That many a delicate beautiful lass , Should thus by old widows be put to disgrace , For every young lad has his widow in chase . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . The second part , to the same tune . L Et Maidens be patient , and never take thought , But stay until all the old widows be caught , For now like to horses for coin they are bought , They say that in Smithfield they're cried twelve a groat . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . Yet some of these widows that marry so fast , I doubt will have cause to repent of their haste : If they marry young men their shoulders to baste , O then they will whine when the remedy is past , And curse such a wiving age . And curse , etc Likewise many youngmen perhaps may repent , When all the old Angels are wasted and spent , Theyle wish the tongue out , that gave first content , Theyle say then I muse what a devil I meant To match in that wiving age . To match in that wiving age . A young man that marries a widow for wealth , Does often much damage unto his souls health , For he will be toying and playing by stealth , She's jealous though never so justly he deals . Take heed of this wiving age . Take heed , etc When young Lads and Lasses as them does behove , Do lawfully marry together in love , God pours down his blessings on them from above , But youth and old dotage contrary do prove , As this in this wiving age . As this , etc It may be accounted a wonder to see And old crasse croane with a young man agree : This only for wealth that they married be Then take them who list , a young maid is for me . O this is a wiving age , O this is a wiving age . Then let no young maidens be displeased in mind , Though widows are married , and they left behind : Those young men who are thus contrary to kind , You were better loose , then ever to find , Leave them to this wiving age . Leave them , etc Yet must I confess many widows there be Who from all libidinous thoughts are so free , They wed not for lust , but for love as we see , Find me such a one , and I'll quickly agree , To match in this wiving age . To match in this wiving age . Of all sorts and sexes theres some good some bad , Theres choice of both widows and maids to be had , He that happens well hath cause to be glad , And therefore let every honest young Lad Make choice in this wiving age , Make choice , etc My song unto Virg [ in ] s is chiefly directed , Who now in this age are little respected , Though widows be chosen and maids be rejected . They will be esteemed , though now they're neglected , Yet not in this wiving age , Yet not in this wiving age . Finis . M. P. Printed for Francis Coules at the upper end of the old Baily near Newgate . The wiving age . OR A great Complaint of the Maidens of London , Who now for lack of good Husbands are undone , For now many Widows though never so old , Are caught up by young men for lucre of gold . To the tune of the Golden age . TO He Maidens of London are now in despair , How they shall get husbands , it is all their care , Though maidens be never so virtuous and fair , Yet old wealthy widows , are young men's chief ware . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . A young man need never take thought how to wive , For widows and maidens for husbands do strive , Heres scant men enough for them all left alive , They flock to the Church , like Bees to the Hive . O this is a wiving age , O this is a wiving age . Betwixt widows and maids there is a great strife , And either of them would feign be a wife , They all do cry out on this found single life , And long to dance after a Taber and Fife . O this is a wiving age . O this is wiving age . The maidens I doubt will be put to the worst , And widows though old , will be married all first , To drink the bride Posset good Lord how they thirst , Though they have foul faces there beautiful purst . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . Most Widows are impudent , they cannot blush , For speech of the people they care not a rush : They are very free and their money is flush . They will have a youngman their aprons to brush O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age , Young maidens are bashful , but widows are bold , They tempt poor young men with their silver and gold , For love now a days for money is sold , If she be worth treasure no matter how old . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . For one maid now married theres widows a score , Their husbands scant dead a whole fortnight before , They cannot live single they'le marry therefore . With any young man though he's never so poor . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . O is not this a pitiful case , That many a delicate beautiful lass , Should thus by old widows be put to disgrace , For every young lad has his widow in chase . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . The second part , to the same tune . L Et Maidens be patient , and never take thought , But stay until all the old widows be caught , For now like to horses for coin they are bought , They say that in Smithfield they're cried twelve a groat . O this is a wiving age . O this is a wiving age . Yet some of these widows that marry so fast , I doubt will have cause to repent of their haste : If they marry young men their shoulders to baste , O then they will whine when the remedy is past , And curse such a wiving age . And curse , etc Likewise many youngmen perhaps may repent , When all the old Angels are wasted and spent , Theyle wish the tongue out , that gave first content , Theyle say then I muse what a devil I meant To match in that wiving age . To match in that wiving age . A young man that marries a widow for wealth , Does often much damage unto his souls health , For he will be toying and playing by stealth , She's jealous though never so justly he deals . Take heed of this wiving age . Take heed , etc When young Lads and Lasses as them does behove , Do lawfully marry together in love , God pours down his blessings on them from above , But youth and old dotage contrary do prove , As this in this wiving age . As this , etc It may be accounted a wonder to see And old crasse croane with a young man agree : This only for wealth that they married be Then take them who list , a young maid is for me . O this is a wiving age , O this is a wiving age . Then let no young maidens be displeased in mind , Though widows are married , and they left behind : Those young men who are thus contrary to kind , You were better loose , then ever to find , Leave them to this wiving age . Leave them , etc Yet must I confess many widows there be Who from all libidinous thoughts are so free , They wed not for lust , but for love as we see , Find me such a one , and I'll quickly agree , To match in this wiving age . To match in this wiving age . Of all sorts and sexes theres some good some bad , Theres choice of both widows and maids to be had , He that happens well hath cause to be glad , And therefore let every honest young Lad Make choice in this wiving age , Make choice , etc My song unto Virg [ in ] s is chiefly directed , Who now in this age are little respected , Though widows be chosen and maids be rejected . They will be esteemed , though now they're neglected , Yet not in this wiving age , Yet not in this wiving age . Finis . M. P. Printed for Francis Coules at the upper end of the old Baily near Newgate . 