The Lamentation of a new married man , briefly declaring the sorrow and grief that comes by marrying a young wanton wife . To the tune of , Where is my true Love Y Ou Bachelors that brave it So gallant in the street , With Musk and with Rosewater , Smelling all so sweet : With Shoes of Spanish leather , So featly to your feet , Behold me a married young man . Before that I was wedded , I lived in delight , I went unto the dancing School , I learned at Fence to fight : With twenty other pleasures , That now are banished quite , I being a married young man . When I lived single , I knew no cause of strife , I had my heart in quiet , I led a pleasant life : But now my chiefest study Is how to please my Wife , I being a young married man . Quoth she , You do not love me , To leave me all alone , You must go a gadding , And I must bide at home , While you among your Minions , Spend more then is your own : This life leads a married man . Do you think to keep me So like a drudge each day , To toil and moil so sadly , And la [ m ] e me everyway ? I'll have a maid , bir Lady , Shall work while I do play , This life leads a married man . Then must I give attendance Upon my Mistress heals : I must wait before her , While she does walk the Fields . Shee'l eat no meat but Lobsters , And pretty Grigs and Eels : This life , etc Then must I get her Cherries , And dainty Kather'n Pears : And then she longs for Codlings , She breeds Child she swears : When God knows this a Cushion That she about her bears : This life , etc She must have Rabbet suckers , Without spot or speck : I must buy her Peascods At sixteene groats the Peck : She must have Eggs and white wine , To wash her face and neck : TO [ h ] is life leads a married man . If once to pass it comes , That she is brought to bed , Why then with many dainties She must be daily fed : A hundred toys and trifles Comes then within her head : This life , etc Against that she is Churched , A new Gown she must have : A dainty fine Rebato About her neck so brave : French bodies , with a Farthingale , She never linnes to crave , This life , etc Abroad among her Gossips Then must she daily go : Requesting of this favour , A man must not say no , Lest that and unkind quarrel About this matter grow : This life , etc To Offerings and Weddings , Abroad then she must prance , Whereas with lusty Youngsters This gallant Dame must dance : Her Husband must say nothing , What hap soever chance : This life , etc And then there is no remedy , She must go to a Play , To purge abounding Choler , And drive sad dumps away : She tarries out till midnight , She swears she will not stay : This life , etc When home at last she comes , To bed she gets her soon , And there she sleeps full soundly , Till the next day at noon , Then must she eat a Cawdle With a silver spoon : This life , etc Therefore my friends be warned , You that unwedded be , The troubles of a married man You do most plainly see , Who likes not of his living , Would he would change with me , That now am a married man . Where I was wont full often Good company to keep , Now I must rock the Cradle , And hush the Child asleep : I had no time nor l [ e ] assure Out of my doors to p [ ee ] pe , Since I was a married young man . The second Part to the same Tune . And answer sent to the young married Man , Written most friendly by his gentle Wife Nan . A Lack wherefore lament you , your happy wedded state ? Therein you show great folly , repentance comes to late . To make your self a mocking-stock , with every scoffing mate , Now you are a married young man . In youth , do well remember , your mind was all on pride : Deceiving sport and pleasure , your lavish thoughts did guide : It's time such foolish fancies should now be laid aside , Now you are etc When you lived single , your time you vainly spent : Unto unlawful pastime , your youngling wits were bent : But now you must learn wisdom , discredit to prevent : Sith you are , etc And alas to estimation , longs to a single life : What were you but a skip Jacke , before you had a wife , A mate for every madcap , a stirrer up of strife , Till you were a married young man . A Wife hath wone you credit , a wife makes you esteemed . And honest man through marriage , now are you surely deemed , And you shall find at all times , a wife your dearest friend , Now you are etc Then is it right and reason , your wife should pleased be : It is a happy household , where couples do agree : It does delight the Angels , such concord for to see , Then blessed is the married young man . If I do blame your gadding , it is for love be sure : Bad company does always ill counsel still procure . The man that will be thrifty , must at his work endure , While he is a married young man . This works his Commendations , among the very best : The chief men of the Parish , his quaintance will request : And then he shall be called to office with the rest , When he is a married young man . He shall be made a Headborough , unto his credit great , At what time all neighbours , his friendship will entreat , And then it is most decent , he should go fine and neat , When he is a married young man . Then bareheaded unto him , a number daily flocks : To help him by his office , from many stumbling blocks : Then comes he to be Constable , and set knaves in the stocks : Thus riseth a married young man . His wife shall then be seated in Church at her desire , Her Husband he is sideman , and sits within the Choir , Then he is made Churchwarden , and placed somewhat higher : Great joy to a married young man . Then seeing all this credit by marriage you do find , Unto your wife this reason , you should be good and kind : And sometime wait upon her , according to her mind : As best fits a married young man . If friendly you go with her to walk out of the Town , Why then you may have pleasure , to give her a green Gown : To have so great a favour , some men would give a crown , Which is not a married young man As for the Pears and Apples ; you give me in the street , The Cherries or the Codlings , for pretty women meet , At night I give you kindly a thousand kisses sweet : Great joy to a married young man . And hundred other pleasures , I do you then betide : In bringing forth your Children , great sorrow I do bide . For twenty Gowns and Kirtles , the like would not be tried , By any fine young married man . Why should you scorn the Cradle , I tell you sir most plain , There is not any pleasure , but sometime breeds pain . If you will not be troubled , why then good sir refrain To play like a married young man . FINIS . London printed by A . M.The Lamentation of a new married man , briefly declaring the sorrow and grief that comes by marrying a young wanton wife . To the tune of , Where is my true Love Y Ou Bachelors that brave it So gallant in the street , With Musk and with Rosewater , Smelling all so sweet : With Shoes of Spanish leather , So featly to your feet , Behold me a married young man . Before that I was wedded , I lived in delight , I went unto the dancing School , I learned at Fence to fight : With twenty other pleasures , That now are banished quite , I being a married young man . When I lived single , I knew no cause of strife , I had my heart in quiet , I led a pleasant life : But now my chiefest study Is how to please my Wife , I being a young married man . Quoth she , You do not love me , To leave me all alone , You must go a gadding , And I must bide at home , While you among your Minions , Spend more then is your own : This life leads a married man . Do you think to keep me So like a drudge each day , To toil and moil so sadly , And la [ m ] e me everyway ? I'll have a maid , bir Lady , Shall work while I do play , This life leads a married man . Then must I give attendance Upon my Mistress heals : I must wait before her , While she does walk the Fields . Shee'l eat no meat but Lobsters , And pretty Grigs and Eels : This life , etc Then must I get her Cherries , And dainty Kather'n Pears : And then she longs for Codlings , She breeds Child she swears : When God knows this a Cushion That she about her bears : This life , etc She must have Rabbet suckers , Without spot or speck : I must buy her Peascods At sixteene groats the Peck : She must have Eggs and white wine , To wash her face and neck : TO [ h ] is life leads a married man . If once to pass it comes , That she is brought to bed , Why then with many dainties She must be daily fed : A hundred toys and trifles Comes then within her head : This life , etc Against that she is Churched , A new Gown she must have : A dainty fine Rebato About her neck so brave : French bodies , with a Farthingale , She never linnes to crave , This life , etc Abroad among her Gossips Then must she daily go : Requesting of this favour , A man must not say no , Lest that and unkind quarrel About this matter grow : This life , etc To Offerings and Weddings , Abroad then she must prance , Whereas with lusty Youngsters This gallant Dame must dance : Her Husband must say nothing , What hap soever chance : This life , etc And then there is no remedy , She must go to a Play , To purge abounding Choler , And drive sad dumps away : She tarries out till midnight , She swears she will not stay : This life , etc When home at last she comes , To bed she gets her soon , And there she sleeps full soundly , Till the next day at noon , Then must she eat a Cawdle With a silver spoon : This life , etc Therefore my friends be warned , You that unwedded be , The troubles of a married man You do most plainly see , Who likes not of his living , Would he would change with me , That now am a married man . Where I was wont full often Good company to keep , Now I must rock the Cradle , And hush the Child asleep : I had no time nor l [ e ] assure Out of my doors to p [ ee ] pe , Since I was a married young man . The second Part to the same Tune . And answer sent to the young married Man , Written most friendly by his gentle Wife Nan . A Lack wherefore lament you , your happy wedded state ? Therein you show great folly , repentance comes to late . To make your self a mocking-stock , with every scoffing mate , Now you are a married young man . In youth , do well remember , your mind was all on pride : Deceiving sport and pleasure , your lavish thoughts did guide : It's time such foolish fancies should now be laid aside , Now you are etc When you lived single , your time you vainly spent : Unto unlawful pastime , your youngling wits were bent : But now you must learn wisdom , discredit to prevent : Sith you are , etc And alas to estimation , longs to a single life : What were you but a skip Jacke , before you had a wife , A mate for every madcap , a stirrer up of strife , Till you were a married young man . A Wife hath wone you credit , a wife makes you esteemed . And honest man through marriage , now are you surely deemed , And you shall find at all times , a wife your dearest friend , Now you are etc Then is it right and reason , your wife should pleased be : It is a happy household , where couples do agree : It does delight the Angels , such concord for to see , Then blessed is the married young man . If I do blame your gadding , it is for love be sure : Bad company does always ill counsel still procure . The man that will be thrifty , must at his work endure , While he is a married young man . This works his Commendations , among the very best : The chief men of the Parish , his quaintance will request : And then he shall be called to office with the rest , When he is a married young man . He shall be made a Headborough , unto his credit great , At what time all neighbours , his friendship will entreat , And then it is most decent , he should go fine and neat , When he is a married young man . Then bareheaded unto him , a number daily flocks : To help him by his office , from many stumbling blocks : Then comes he to be Constable , and set knaves in the stocks : Thus riseth a married young man . His wife shall then be seated in Church at her desire , Her Husband he is sideman , and sits within the Choir , Then he is made Churchwarden , and placed somewhat higher : Great joy to a married young man . Then seeing all this credit by marriage you do find , Unto your wife this reason , you should be good and kind : And sometime wait upon her , according to her mind : As best fits a married young man . If friendly you go with her to walk out of the Town , Why then you may have pleasure , to give her a green Gown : To have so great a favour , some men would give a crown , Which is not a married young man As for the Pears and Apples ; you give me in the street , The Cherries or the Codlings , for pretty women meet , At night I give you kindly a thousand kisses sweet : Great joy to a married young man . And hundred other pleasures , I do you then betide : In bringing forth your Children , great sorrow I do bide . For twenty Gowns and Kirtles , the like would not be tried , By any fine young married man . Why should you scorn the Cradle , I tell you sir most plain , There is not any pleasure , but sometime breeds pain . If you will not be troubled , why then good sir refrain To play like a married young man . FINIS . London printed by A.M. 