A Proverb old , yet never forgotten , This good to strike while the Irons hot . Or , Counsel to all Young men that are poor , To Marry with Widows now while there is store . To the Tune of , Dulcina . A LL you Youngmen who would Marry , and enjoy your hearts content , In your minds this Counsel carry , then you shall no whit repent : now is the time that Men may climb Unto promotion by good lot , this Proverb old hath oft be told , This good to strike while the Iron's hot . Wealthy Widows now are plenty , where you come in any place , For one Man the Women twenty , this time lasts but for a space : She will be wrought , though it be for nought , But wealth which their first Husband god , let Youngmen poor make haste therefore , This good to strike while the Irons hot , Now is the Wooing time or never , Widows now will love Youngmen , Death them from their Mates did sever , now they long to match again , they will not stand for House or Land , Although thou be'st not worth a groat , set forth thy self , thou shalt have Pelf , If thou wilt strike while the Irons hot . Do not dote on Maidens features , Widows are the only ware , It is many Youngman's nature's to love Maidens young and fair , this Cupids wile thus to beguile Young Lovers , therefore trust him not , get one with Gold , though never so old , This good to strike while the Irons hot . Lads and Lasses often marry , rich in nothing but in Love , Want of means will make them vary , as we often times do prove , how ere they fare , they must take care To keep their Children when they are god ; of this take heed , and learn with speed To strike the Iron while this hot . Let not such a time oreslip thee , raise thy fortune's while thou mayest , Maidens can but coll and clip thee , so will Widows when they taste a Young men love , most kind theyle prove . The youngest best that can be god , sith this is so , then be not slow , But strike the Iron while this hot . The second Part , To the same Tune . A LL ways take this for a maxim , that old Widows love young men , O then do not spare for asking , though she's old , she'll toot again : she scorns to take for Riches sake . Thy Money she regardeth not , with love her win , together join , And strike the Iron while this hot . Some perhaps may make objection that Old-women jealous are , Let not that change thy affection , though they be doe thou not care if thou be true , and give her due , She'll never mistrust thee fear it not , she'll love thee deer , then do not fear , But strike the Iron while this hot . Maidens loves are coy and fickle , they too much their equals look , If of wealth thou hast but little , fie away your are mistook , replieth she , come not to me : Then art thou daunted soon God wot , then woe and old , fear not , be bold , And strike the Iron while this hot . And beside the many Lasses , dares not marry when they list , Cause her Portion ere she passes must come from her Father's fist : but still you see a Widows free , For friend or foe she careth not , then who would miss such time as this , This good to strike while the Irons hot . Many Matches have be broken , though both Parties were content , When the Maids goodwill is got , then her Friends will not consent would it not vex a Man , to fix His mind on whats and others lot ? then he thats poor to mend his store , Must strike the Iron while this hot . If a poor Youngman be matched with a Widow stored with gold , And thereby be much inritched , though hes young and she is old , 'twill be no shame unto his Name , If he have what his Friends have not , but every Friend will him commend For striking the Iron while it hot . Youngmen all who hreae this Ditty , in your memories keep it well , Chiefly you in London City , where so many Widows dwe [ ll ] the Season now does well allow Your practice , therefore lose it not , fallen toot apace , while you have space , And strike the Iron while this hot . FINIS . Martin Parker . Printed at London for Francis Grove , and are to be sold at his Shop on Snow-Hill . A Proverb old , yet never forgotten , This good to strike while the Irons hot . Or , Counsel to all Young men that are poor , To Marry with Widows now while there is store . To the Tune of , Dulcina . A LL you Youngmen who would Marry , and enjoy your hearts content , In your minds this Counsel carry , then you shall no whit repent : now is the time that Men may climb Unto promotion by good lot , this Proverb old hath oft be told , This good to strike while the Iron's hot . Wealthy Widows now are plenty , where you come in any place , For one Man the Women twenty , this time lasts but for a space : She will be wrought , though it be for nought , But wealth which their first Husband god , let Youngmen poor make haste therefore , This good to strike while the Irons hot , Now is the Wooing time or never , Widows now will love Youngmen , Death them from their Mates did sever , now they long to match again , they will not stand for House or Land , Although thou be'st not worth a groat , set forth thy self , thou shalt have Pelf , If thou wilt strike while the Irons hot . Do not dote on Maidens features , Widows are the only ware , It is many Youngman's nature's to love Maidens young and fair , this Cupids wile thus to beguile Young Lovers , therefore trust him not , get one with Gold , though never so old , This good to strike while the Irons hot . Lads and Lasses often marry , rich in nothing but in Love , Want of means will make them vary , as we often times do prove , how ere they fare , they must take care To keep their Children when they are god ; of this take heed , and learn with speed To strike the Iron while this hot . Let not such a time oreslip thee , raise thy fortune's while thou mayest , Maidens can but coll and clip thee , so will Widows when they taste a Young men love , most kind theyle prove . The youngest best that can be god , sith this is so , then be not slow , But strike the Iron while this hot . The second Part , To the same Tune . A LL ways take this for a maxim , that old Widows love young men , O then do not spare for asking , though she's old , she'll toot again : she scorns to take for Riches sake . Thy Money she regardeth not , with love her win , together join , And strike the Iron while this hot . Some perhaps may make objection that Old-women jealous are , Let not that change thy affection , though they be doe thou not care if thou be true , and give her due , She'll never mistrust thee fear it not , she'll love thee deer , then do not fear , But strike the Iron while this hot . Maidens loves are coy and fickle , they too much their equals look , If of wealth thou hast but little , fie away your are mistook , replieth she , come not to me : Then art thou daunted soon God wot , then woe and old , fear not , be bold , And strike the Iron while this hot . And beside the many Lasses , dares not marry when they list , Cause her Portion ere she passes must come from her Father's fist : but still you see a Widows free , For friend or foe she careth not , then who would miss such time as this , This good to strike while the Irons hot . Many Matches have be broken , though both Parties were content , When the Maids goodwill is got , then her Friends will not consent would it not vex a Man , to fix His mind on whats and others lot ? then he thats poor to mend his store , Must strike the Iron while this hot . If a poor Youngman be matched with a Widow stored with gold , And thereby be much inritched , though hes young and she is old , 'twill be no shame unto his Name , If he have what his Friends have not , but every Friend will him commend For striking the Iron while it hot . Youngmen all who hreae this Ditty , in your memories keep it well , Chiefly you in London City , where so many Widows dwe [ ll ] the Season now does well allow Your practice , therefore lose it not , fallen toot apace , while you have space , And strike the Iron while this hot . FINIS . Martin Parker . Printed at London for Francis Grove , and are to be sold at his Shop on Snow-Hill . 