The father hath beguiled the son . Or , a wonderful Tragedy , which lately befell In Wiltshire , as many men know full well . To the tune of Drive the cold Winter away . I Often have known , And expereince hath shown , that a spokesman hath wooed for himself And that one rich neighbour Will underhand labour to overthrow another with pelf : But I never knew . Nor I think any of you , since wooing and wedding begun , That ith way of marriage , Or such kind of carriage the father beguiled his own son . Yet of such a thing I purpose to sing : and this of a certain truth , A widower old Well stored with gold : had one only son a fine youth , In Wiltshire of late Near to Bodwin the great : this strange and true story was done , Then list and give ear And you truly shall hear : how the father beguiled his own son . A pretty young maid , Ith the place aforesaid : in a Gentleman's house did dwell And this youthful lad So much view of her had , that with her in love he soon fell : By day and by night He wished for her sighed , and she at the last was won , To plighted him her troth , Yet she broke her oath , for the father beguiled his own son . For once on a day The young man did say : unto his wise and aged dad , That it his intent ( Worse things to prevent ) with marriage to make him glad : Me thinks first quoth he , Your wife I might see , why will you hastily run : On such brittle ware ? Yet for all his care , ( old fox ) he beguiled his own son . The son told his father , How that he had rather : to have in the same his consent . So to have a view Of his Lover true , the son with his father went : And when they came there The Lass did appear , so fair and so lovely a one , That the old doting churl , Fell in love with the girl and sought to beguile his own son . With such pleasant words As to love accords , they all did depart for that season , The honest young Lad , Was joyful and glad : his sweetheart had showed him good reason , The lovesick old man , Did look pale and wan , and could to no pleasure be won , By night and by day , Still musing he lay , how he might beguile his own son . Yet none did mistrust , A thing so unjust : for he was near threescore years old : Which years one would think , Should make a man shrink , when his vital spirits are cold : But now to be brief , That was all his grief , from love all this mischief begun : And nothing could serve , His life to preserve , but that which must kill his own son . So once on a day , When his son to make hay : was gone a good mile from the house , Away the old man , Is gone to see Nan , as brisk as a body louse : And with a bold face , He told her his case , and into what care he was run , Unless that she , Would kindly agree , to take him in stead of his son . The second part , To the same tune . S He mused in mind , Such greeting to find , and thus unto him she said , Can such and old knave , With one foot in the grave : set love on a young tender maid , That hardly sixteene Cold winter's had seen , sure such thing cannot be done : Nay more then all this You know what past is , betwixt me and your only son . Sweet Nan quoth he , Never dally with me , I love thee as well as may be , And though I am old I have silver and gold to keep thee as brave as a Lady , All my whole estate Upon thee shall wait , and whatsoever thou wouldst have done , With gold in thy hand , Thou shalt it command , if thou wilt take me instead of my son . If me thou do shun , In hope of my son then take him and ift be thy mind , But into the bargain Look not for one farthing , then be not with folly let blind , For it lies in my power , At this instant hour ( if thou say not it shall be done ) To give all I have , Away from the knave , then take me and leave off my son . When she herd these words , To him she accords upon the same condition , That of all his pelf , He should his own self , her set in full possession , To which he agreed , And gave her a deed , by which the poor Lad was undone , Unnaturally To please his fancy , he did disinherit his son . These things being acted , And they both contracted , by witness unawares to the Lad , The old man home went , With hearty content , rejoicing at his courses bad , And thus the next day , He carried away the Lass which with wealth he had wone He married was , Twelve miles from the place , thus the father beguiled his own son . The youngman with grief , Herd of this mischief and blaming this monstrous part , Before both their faces , Unto their disgraces , he stabbed himself to the heart : The unnatural dad , Ran presently mad : repenting of what he had done , He runs up and down , From town unto town , and hourly calls on his son . The faithless young wife , Weary of her life , ( to think what folly befell ) Ran straight in all haste , And headlong she cast herself in a deep draw-well . And there she was found , Next morning quite drowned these things for certain were done , Some sixe weeks ago , As many men know , that knew both father and son . Let every god father , A warning here gather , by this old men punishment : And let every young Lass , ( As in a glass , ) look on this disastrous event ; For both were to blame , And both suffered shame , the old man yet living does run In mad frantic wise And always he cries , for casting away his own son . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Francis Coules . The father hath beguiled the son . Or , a wonderful Tragedy , which lately befell In Wiltshire , as many men know full well . To the tune of Drive the cold Winter away . I Often have known , And expereince hath shown , that a spokesman hath wooed for himself And that one rich neighbour Will underhand labour to overthrow another with pelf : But I never knew . Nor I think any of you , since wooing and wedding begun , That ith way of marriage , Or such kind of carriage the father beguiled his own son . Yet of such a thing I purpose to sing : and this of a certain truth , A widower old Well stored with gold : had one only son a fine youth , In Wiltshire of late Near to Bodwin the great : this strange and true story was done , Then list and give ear And you truly shall hear : how the father beguiled his own son . A pretty young maid , Ith the place aforesaid : in a Gentleman's house did dwell And this youthful lad So much view of her had , that with her in love he soon fell : By day and by night He wished for her sighed , and she at the last was won , To plighted him her troth , Yet she broke her oath , for the father beguiled his own son . For once on a day The young man did say : unto his wise and aged dad , That it his intent ( Worse things to prevent ) with marriage to make him glad : Me thinks first quoth he , Your wife I might see , why will you hastily run : On such brittle ware ? Yet for all his care , ( old fox ) he beguiled his own son . The son told his father , How that he had rather : to have in the same his consent . So to have a view Of his Lover true , the son with his father went : And when they came there The Lass did appear , so fair and so lovely a one , That the old doting churl , Fell in love with the girl and sought to beguile his own son . With such pleasant words As to love accords , they all did depart for that season , The honest young Lad , Was joyful and glad : his sweetheart had showed him good reason , The lovesick old man , Did look pale and wan , and could to no pleasure be won , By night and by day , Still musing he lay , how he might beguile his own son . Yet none did mistrust , A thing so unjust : for he was near threescore years old : Which years one would think , Should make a man shrink , when his vital spirits are cold : But now to be brief , That was all his grief , from love all this mischief begun : And nothing could serve , His life to preserve , but that which must kill his own son . So once on a day , When his son to make hay : was gone a good mile from the house , Away the old man , Is gone to see Nan , as brisk as a body louse : And with a bold face , He told her his case , and into what care he was run , Unless that she , Would kindly agree , to take him in stead of his son . The second part , To the same tune . S He mused in mind , Such greeting to find , and thus unto him she said , Can such and old knave , With one foot in the grave : set love on a young tender maid , That hardly sixteene Cold winter's had seen , sure such thing cannot be done : Nay more then all this You know what past is , betwixt me and your only son . Sweet Nan quoth he , Never dally with me , I love thee as well as may be , And though I am old I have silver and gold to keep thee as brave as a Lady , All my whole estate Upon thee shall wait , and whatsoever thou wouldst have done , With gold in thy hand , Thou shalt it command , if thou wilt take me instead of my son . If me thou do shun , In hope of my son then take him and ift be thy mind , But into the bargain Look not for one farthing , then be not with folly let blind , For it lies in my power , At this instant hour ( if thou say not it shall be done ) To give all I have , Away from the knave , then take me and leave off my son . When she herd these words , To him she accords upon the same condition , That of all his pelf , He should his own self , her set in full possession , To which he agreed , And gave her a deed , by which the poor Lad was undone , Unnaturally To please his fancy , he did disinherit his son . These things being acted , And they both contracted , by witness unawares to the Lad , The old man home went , With hearty content , rejoicing at his courses bad , And thus the next day , He carried away the Lass which with wealth he had wone He married was , Twelve miles from the place , thus the father beguiled his own son . The youngman with grief , Herd of this mischief and blaming this monstrous part , Before both their faces , Unto their disgraces , he stabbed himself to the heart : The unnatural dad , Ran presently mad : repenting of what he had done , He runs up and down , From town unto town , and hourly calls on his son . The faithless young wife , Weary of her life , ( to think what folly befell ) Ran straight in all haste , And headlong she cast herself in a deep draw-well . And there she was found , Next morning quite drowned these things for certain were done , Some sixe weeks ago , As many men know , that knew both father and son . Let every god father , A warning here gather , by this old men punishment : And let every young Lass , ( As in a glass , ) look on this disastrous event ; For both were to blame , And both suffered shame , the old man yet living does run In mad frantic wise And always he cries , for casting away his own son . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Francis Coules . 