A Hee-Divell : or , If this Woman's Husband use her well , I'll say some kindness may be found in Hell . To the tune of , The Shee-divell . W Hen I a Maiden was , I longed to be married , But now ( alas ) such is my case , I wish I had longer tarried , Matching over hastily hath wrought me much evil . She that weds such a knave as I , were as good to marry the Devil . I thought each day as long as a year , until that I was mated , My Maidenhead I could not bear , so soar that life I hated : I longed to have a man , with pleasure to content me , But now that I have got one , it sorely does repent me . For he is such a dogged wretch , and does so basely use me , Many a sorrowful sighs I fetch , when he does beatrice and bruise me . I married him for love that was not worth a farthing , And yet he does ingrateful prove , judge , is not this a hard thing ? Two hundred pounds in ready coin , my father did bequeathe me , Which I ( as freely as was mine ) did give to him that hath me . Against my friends consent , I chosen him for my pleasure , But now my hasty match repent , I do ( as they say ) by leisure . The second part To the same tune . H E does consume & amp ; waste my means in lewd dishonest fashion , Among a crew of Knaves and Queans which turns to my vexation : And if I speak to him in kindness , to reclaim him , Heel with his girdle lace my skin , though all the neighbours blame him Every day I labour soar and earn my food with sweating , Yet all the thanks I have therefore , is nought unless iT be a beating . What I have earned all day , ( alas ) I speakt with sorrow , The knave at night takes all away , to spend upon the morrow . And glad am I to please him so , if I might but live quiet : While he does to the Alehouse go , I work to get his diet . Though my labour earns the meat , I nor my little daughter , Till he hath done , dare nothing eat , but dine ( like servants ) after . When he comes home drunk at night , if supper be not dressed , Most devilishly heel rail and fight , though humbly I request Him to be patient , but there is no such matter , And if the meat do not him content , heel break my head with the platter . I like a servile bondslave , do wipe his boots and shoes , And yet the domineering knave , so basely does me use . That if one spot on them he find , about my head heel beatrice them , And if with words I show my mind , I were as good to eat them . Though such a portion I did bring , as before is said , Yet I do every droiling thing , heel let me keep no Maid . I wash and scour , yet ( if you will believe me ) I seldom live a quiet hour . judge whither this does grieve me . If any neighbour me invite , to gossipping , or feasting , I dare not go ( is not this a spite ) for fear of his molesting . I forth to supper went one night , but that may be my warning , Heel not endure me out on's sighed , he is so afraid of horning . How can it choose but grief me still , to see some of my neighbours , That money have to spend at will out of their husbands labours , And I that to my portion brought two hundred pounds in money , Dare never do , as women ought , nor barely spend a penny . If any time he money lack and I cannot supply him , Heel pawn my garments from my back , and I dare not deny him , Tother day he took my smock , and pawned it for a shilling , I came , and found him at the Cock , just when the drink was filling . All you Maidens fair , that have a mind to wed , Take heed and be aware , lest you like me be sped . And you good wives , that hear my woeful Ditty , If you ere bought Ballad in your lives , buy this , for very pity . M.P. Printed for F. G rove , on Snow-hill . FINIS . A Hee-Divell : or , If this Woman's Husband use her well , I'll say some kindness may be found in Hell . To the tune of , The Shee-divell . W Hen I a Maiden was , I longed to be married , But now ( alas ) such is my case , I wish I had longer tarried , Matching over hastily hath wrought me much evil . She that weds such a knave as I , were as good to marry the Devil . I thought each day as long as a year , until that I was mated , My Maidenhead I could not bear , so soar that life I hated : I longed to have a man , with pleasure to content me , But now that I have got one , it sorely does repent me . For he is such a dogged wretch , and does so basely use me , Many a sorrowful sighs I fetch , when he does beatrice and bruise me . I married him for love that was not worth a farthing , And yet he does ingrateful prove , judge , is not this a hard thing ? Two hundred pounds in ready coin , my father did bequeathe me , Which I ( as freely as was mine ) did give to him that hath me . Against my friends consent , I chosen him for my pleasure , But now my hasty match repent , I do ( as they say ) by leisure . The second part To the same tune . H E does consume & amp ; waste my means in lewd dishonest fashion , Among a crew of Knaves and Queans which turns to my vexation : And if I speak to him in kindness , to reclaim him , Heel with his girdle lace my skin , though all the neighbours blame him Every day I labour soar and earn my food with sweating , Yet all the thanks I have therefore , is nought unless iT be a beating . What I have earned all day , ( alas ) I speakt with sorrow , The knave at night takes all away , to spend upon the morrow . And glad am I to please him so , if I might but live quiet : While he does to the Alehouse go , I work to get his diet . Though my labour earns the meat , I nor my little daughter , Till he hath done , dare nothing eat , but dine ( like servants ) after . When he comes home drunk at night , if supper be not dressed , Most devilishly heel rail and fight , though humbly I request Him to be patient , but there is no such matter , And if the meat do not him content , heel break my head with the platter . I like a servile bondslave , do wipe his boots and shoes , And yet the domineering knave , so basely does me use . That if one spot on them he find , about my head heel beatrice them , And if with words I show my mind , I were as good to eat them . Though such a portion I did bring , as before is said , Yet I do every droiling thing , heel let me keep no Maid . I wash and scour , yet ( if you will believe me ) I seldom live a quiet hour . judge whither this does grieve me . If any neighbour me invite , to gossipping , or feasting , I dare not go ( is not this a spite ) for fear of his molesting . I forth to supper went one night , but that may be my warning , Heel not endure me out on's sighed , he is so afraid of horning . How can it choose but grief me still , to see some of my neighbours , That money have to spend at will out of their husbands labours , And I that to my portion brought two hundred pounds in money , Dare never do , as women ought , nor barely spend a penny . If any time he money lack and I cannot supply him , Heel pawn my garments from my back , and I dare not deny him , Tother day he took my smock , and pawned it for a shilling , I came , and found him at the Cock , just when the drink was filling . All you Maidens fair , that have a mind to wed , Take heed and be aware , lest you like me be sped . And you good wives , that hear my woeful Ditty , If you ere bought Ballad in your lives , buy this , for very pity . M.P. Printed for F. G rove , on Snow-hill . FINIS . 