This not otherwise : OR : The praise of a married life . To the tune of , I'll never love thee more . A Young man lately did complain because that he was wed : And counseled others to abstain from Hymeneal bed : Had years but given him manlike thoughts , he'ed not been so unwise , For wives increase men happiness , then T'is not otherwise . What joy is there upon the earth but Marriage makes it more , It is to man a second birth . and openeth the door To happiness , and such delight that none but they comprise : They pleasures have both day and night , then t'is not otherwise . When I was single I did stray in heart , in words , and life , But I have found a better way I thank my loving wife : I now live free from all suspect , and many wicked lies , The good I wished , hath took effect , then t'is not otherwise . Much company I used to keep , before I had a wife . The memory does make me weep , for was a wicked life : Such comfort now at home I find , from Marriage to arise , I wish all men were in my mind , then t'is not otherwise . Unthrifty games I now have left as Tables , Cards and Dice , That oft hath me of wealth bereft , I curse no Ace , nor Sice : I do not now the Cards bid burn , that made my anger rise , A wife hath caused me to turn then t'is not otherwise So civil I am grown of late since that I made my choice , I hate each swearing swaggering mate , which makes me to rejoice : The company I now do keep , are honest men and wise , That not with drink , but sense do sleep , then t'is not otherwise . No Constable nor watch fear I , that cryeth Who goes there ? I do not reel , but soberly can pass them void of care : I use no caudels in the morn , I drink not out mine eyes , My wife hath made me these to scorn , then t'is not otherwise . This diet makes me to forget the headache that some have , Which makes them for all things unfit , ( to drink I am no slave . ) Those men their virtue hath outworn , that drink does so disguise , My wife hath made me this to scorn , then t'is not otherwise . The second part . To the same tune . A Gainst I from my labour come , my wife provides me meat : When I was single none at home , found I , or what to eat . At sighed of me she lays the cloth , and then for meat she hies , Which makes me to forget all sloth , then t'is not otherwise . If I seem discontent with ought , she kindly prays me tell , If that it may be begged or bought , ( or where it is to fell : ) That would me please , & amp ; merry make : the tears stand in her eyes Till I my discontent forsake : then t'is not otherwise . It is a comfort for to see , good women meek and mild , That to her come in charity , when that she is with child : They comfort her if she do found , one for strong water hies , And so their husbands healths drink round , then t'is not otherwise . When that she does in childbed lie . the neighbours in their love , Will with her fit , and pleasantly to mirth they do her move : By christening of my little lad I did in credit rise : All this by my good wife I had , then t'is not otherwise . For gossiping they send in meat , would well serve forty men . As good as any man can eat , for mutton , pig , or hen ; They eat not half but leave it me , there profit does arise : This comes by a wife you see , then t'is not otherwise . One gives a piece , and one a spoon unto my pretty child , And wish that ere tomorrow noon , their cradles to be filled With such a pretty child as this : joy there to me does rise , Had I no wife all this I miss , then t'is not otherwise . The babe does grow , and quickly speak , this does increase my joy , To hear it tattle , laugh , and squeak , I smile and hug the boy : I with it play with great delight , and hush it when it cries , And ever wish it in my sighed , then t'is not otherwise . All Bachelors I wish you wed , if merry you would live , A single man is oft misled , and seldom does he thrive : I lived before , but better now , my joy and wealth arise , To live well I have shown you how , then t'is not otherwise . Printed at London by G . E.Tis not otherwise : OR : The praise of a married life . To the tune of , I'll never love thee more . A Young man lately did complain because that he was wed : And counseled others to abstain from Hymeneal bed : Had years but given him manlike thoughts , he'ed not been so unwise , For wives increase men happiness , then T'is not otherwise . What joy is there upon the earth but Marriage makes it more , It is to man a second birth . and openeth the door To happiness , and such delight that none but they comprise : They pleasures have both day and night , then t'is not otherwise . When I was single I did stray in heart , in words , and life , But I have found a better way I thank my loving wife : I now live free from all suspect , and many wicked lies , The good I wished , hath took effect , then t'is not otherwise . Much company I used to keep , before I had a wife . The memory does make me weep , for was a wicked life : Such comfort now at home I find , from Marriage to arise , I wish all men were in my mind , then t'is not otherwise . Unthrifty games I now have left as Tables , Cards and Dice , That oft hath me of wealth bereft , I curse no Ace , nor Sice : I do not now the Cards bid burn , that made my anger rise , A wife hath caused me to turn then t'is not otherwise So civil I am grown of late since that I made my choice , I hate each swearing swaggering mate , which makes me to rejoice : The company I now do keep , are honest men and wise , That not with drink , but sense do sleep , then t'is not otherwise . No Constable nor watch fear I , that cryeth Who goes there ? I do not reel , but soberly can pass them void of care : I use no caudels in the morn , I drink not out mine eyes , My wife hath made me these to scorn , then t'is not otherwise . This diet makes me to forget the headache that some have , Which makes them for all things unfit , ( to drink I am no slave . ) Those men their virtue hath outworn , that drink does so disguise , My wife hath made me this to scorn , then t'is not otherwise . The second part . To the same tune . A Gainst I from my labour come , my wife provides me meat : When I was single none at home , found I , or what to eat . At sighed of me she lays the cloth , and then for meat she hies , Which makes me to forget all sloth , then t'is not otherwise . If I seem discontent with ought , she kindly prays me tell , If that it may be begged or bought , ( or where it is to fell : ) That would me please , & amp ; merry make : the tears stand in her eyes Till I my discontent forsake : then t'is not otherwise . It is a comfort for to see , good women meek and mild , That to her come in charity , when that she is with child : They comfort her if she do found , one for strong water hies , And so their husbands healths drink round , then t'is not otherwise . When that she does in childbed lie . the neighbours in their love , Will with her fit , and pleasantly to mirth they do her move : By christening of my little lad I did in credit rise : All this by my good wife I had , then t'is not otherwise . For gossiping they send in meat , would well serve forty men . As good as any man can eat , for mutton , pig , or hen ; They eat not half but leave it me , there profit does arise : This comes by a wife you see , then t'is not otherwise . One gives a piece , and one a spoon unto my pretty child , And wish that ere tomorrow noon , their cradles to be filled With such a pretty child as this : joy there to me does rise , Had I no wife all this I miss , then t'is not otherwise . The babe does grow , and quickly speak , this does increase my joy , To hear it tattle , laugh , and squeak , I smile and hug the boy : I with it play with great delight , and hush it when it cries , And ever wish it in my sighed , then t'is not otherwise . All Bachelors I wish you wed , if merry you would live , A single man is oft misled , and seldom does he thrive : I lived before , but better now , my joy and wealth arise , To live well I have shown you how , then t'is not otherwise . Printed at London by G.E. 