Rock the Baby Joane : OR , John his Petition to his loving Wife Joane , To suckle the Babe that was none of her own . To the Tune of , Under and over . A Young man in our Parish , His wife was somewhat currish . For she refused to nourish a child which he brought home : He god it on and other , And death had taken the mother , The truth he could not smother , all out at last did come : Suckle the Baby , huggle the Baby , Rock the Baby Jone . I scorn to suckle the Baby , Unless it were mine own . His wife cried out on one day , I think it was on Sunday , The next day being Munday , his Wench in sunder fell : The Dad oned she descried , Which having done , she died , This could not be denied , alas he knewed too well . Suckle the Baby , etc The Parish him enforced To see the Infant nursed , He being but lightly pursed , desired to save that charge : He brought it to his own wife , Whom he loved as his own life : To her the case was known rife , he told her all at large . Suckle the Baby , etc Quoth he my Jone my dearest , Thy love to me is nearest , Thy virtue will shine clearest , in doing this good deed : This Infant young is left here , Unable to make shift here , 'Twill be of life bereft here , unless thou do it feed . Suckle the Baby , etc Away thou false Deceiver , Quoth she farewell for ever , I am resolved never To love thee as I did : Alas quoth he my honey , I would not for any money , By thee my sweetest conny , to be so shrewdly chid . Suckle the Baby , etc Although I loved his mother , I'll vow to love none other , What needest thou keep this pother , since she ( poor wretch ) is dead : No more she can thee trouble , And 'twould be charges double , If every month a Noble I pay for milk and bred . Suckle the Baby , Huggle the Baby , Rock the Baby Jone . I scorn to suckle the Baby , Unless it were mine own . The second part . To the same tune . TO Would be to my discredit , Should I both board and bed it , For never woman did it to a Bastard in this kind . O Jone leave off this fashion , 'Twill be thy commendation To take commiseration , let not the child be pined . Suckle the Baby , etc What if the brat be starved ? Experience hath observed It should not be preserved by her that is thy wife . Thy patience will appear more , Oh take it Juggie therefore , Bear with my fault , for wherefore should we continue strife ? Suckle the Baby , etc I doubt I shall be forced , From thee to be divorced , Thy brood shall never be nursed , by me nor by my cost . O wife be not so cruel , Thou knowest thou art my Jewel , Be certain if thou do well , thy labour is not lost . Suckle the Baby , etc My neighbours will deride me , And none that dwell beside me Will evermore abide me for such a President . No Jone thou art mistaken , 'Twill other wives awaken , Then let some course be taken for the child's nourishment . Suckle the Baby , etc Let patient Grissels story , Be still in thy memory , Who won a lasting glory , through patience in like sort : Although it touch thee nearly , This Bairn that looks so cheerly , Shall bind me still more dearly , to love thee better fored . Suckle the Baby , etc Well John thy intercession Hath changed my disposition , And now upon condition thou'lt go no more astray : I'll entertain thy Baby , And love it as well as may be . Do so ( sweet Jug ) I pray thee ; then this is a joyful day . Suckle the Baby , Huggle the Baby , Rock the Baby Jone : I prithee Jug love my Baby , And count it to be thine own . I have a Girl , I boar it But just a day before it , Although we be but poor yet , these two we will maintain : I'll suckle it , and dandle it , And very choicely handle it , And thou shalt soap and candle get : and thus between us twaine , Weel suckle the Baby , And huggle the Baby . Gramercy honest Jone . O John I'll rock thy Baby , As well as 'twere mine own . FINIS . Printed at London for H . G . Rock the Baby Joane : OR , John his Petition to his loving Wife Joane , To suckle the Babe that was none of her own . To the Tune of , Under and over . A Young man in our Parish , His wife was somewhat currish . For she refused to nourish a child which he brought home : He god it on and other , And death had taken the mother , The truth he could not smother , all out at last did come : Suckle the Baby , huggle the Baby , Rock the Baby Jone . I scorn to suckle the Baby , Unless it were mine own . His wife cried out on one day , I think it was on Sunday , The next day being Munday , his Wench in sunder fell : The Dad oned she descried , Which having done , she died , This could not be denied , alas he knewed too well . Suckle the Baby , etc The Parish him enforced To see the Infant nursed , He being but lightly pursed , desired to save that charge : He brought it to his own wife , Whom he loved as his own life : To her the case was known rife , he told her all at large . Suckle the Baby , etc Quoth he my Jone my dearest , Thy love to me is nearest , Thy virtue will shine clearest , in doing this good deed : This Infant young is left here , Unable to make shift here , 'Twill be of life bereft here , unless thou do it feed . Suckle the Baby , etc Away thou false Deceiver , Quoth she farewell for ever , I am resolved never To love thee as I did : Alas quoth he my honey , I would not for any money , By thee my sweetest conny , to be so shrewdly chid . Suckle the Baby , etc Although I loved his mother , I'll vow to love none other , What needest thou keep this pother , since she ( poor wretch ) is dead : No more she can thee trouble , And 'twould be charges double , If every month a Noble I pay for milk and bred . Suckle the Baby , Huggle the Baby , Rock the Baby Jone . I scorn to suckle the Baby , Unless it were mine own . The second part . To the same tune . TO Would be to my discredit , Should I both board and bed it , For never woman did it to a Bastard in this kind . O Jone leave off this fashion , 'Twill be thy commendation To take commiseration , let not the child be pined . Suckle the Baby , etc What if the brat be starved ? Experience hath observed It should not be preserved by her that is thy wife . Thy patience will appear more , Oh take it Juggie therefore , Bear with my fault , for wherefore should we continue strife ? Suckle the Baby , etc I doubt I shall be forced , From thee to be divorced , Thy brood shall never be nursed , by me nor by my cost . O wife be not so cruel , Thou knowest thou art my Jewel , Be certain if thou do well , thy labour is not lost . Suckle the Baby , etc My neighbours will deride me , And none that dwell beside me Will evermore abide me for such a President . No Jone thou art mistaken , 'Twill other wives awaken , Then let some course be taken for the child's nourishment . Suckle the Baby , etc Let patient Grissels story , Be still in thy memory , Who won a lasting glory , through patience in like sort : Although it touch thee nearly , This Bairn that looks so cheerly , Shall bind me still more dearly , to love thee better fored . Suckle the Baby , etc Well John thy intercession Hath changed my disposition , And now upon condition thou'lt go no more astray : I'll entertain thy Baby , And love it as well as may be . Do so ( sweet Jug ) I pray thee ; then this is a joyful day . Suckle the Baby , Huggle the Baby , Rock the Baby Jone : I prithee Jug love my Baby , And count it to be thine own . I have a Girl , I boar it But just a day before it , Although we be but poor yet , these two we will maintain : I'll suckle it , and dandle it , And very choicely handle it , And thou shalt soap and candle get : and thus between us twaine , Weel suckle the Baby , And huggle the Baby . Gramercy honest Jone . O John I'll rock thy Baby , As well as 'twere mine own . FINIS . Printed at London for H . G . 