A merry Dialogue betwixt a married man and his wife concerning the affairs of this careful life . To and excellent Tune . I Have for all good wives a Song , I do lament the women's wrong , And I do pity them with my heart , to think upon the women's smart , Their labours great and full of pain , yet for the same they have small gain . In that you say cannot be true , for men do take more pains then you , We toil , we moil , we grieve and care , when you fit on a stool or chair , Yet let us do all what we can , your tongues will get the upper hand . We women in the morning rise , as soon as day breaks in the skies , And then to please you with desire , the first we do , is , make a fire , Then other work we straight begin , to sweep the house to carded , or spin , Why men do work at Plough and Cart , which soon would break a woman's heart They sow , they mow , and reap the corn , and many times do wear the horn , In praise of wives speak you no more , for these were lies you told before . We women here do bear the blame , but men would seem to have the same : But trust me I will never yield , my tongue's my own , I thereon built , Men may not in this case compare , with women for their toil and care . Fie , idle women , how you prate , this men that gets you all your state , You know this true in what I say , therefore you must give men the way , And not presume to grow too high , your speeches are not worth a fly . You men could not tell how to shift , if you of women were bereft , We wash your clothes , and dress your diet and all to keep your minds in quiet Our works not done at morn nor night , to pleasure men is our delight . Women are called a house of care ; they bring poor men unto despair , That man is blessed that hath not been , inlured by a woman's since , They'll cause a man if heel give way , to bring him to his lives decay . The second part . To the same tune I f we poor women were as bad , as men report being drunk or mad , We might compare with many men , and count our selves as bad as them , Some oft are drunk and beatrice their wives and make them weary of their lives . Why women they must rule their tongues , that brings them to so many wrongs , Sometime their husbands to disgrace , they'll call him knave and rogue to's face , Nay , worse then that , they'll tell him plain his will he shall not well obtain . We women in childbed take great care , I hope the like sorrow will fall to your share Then would you think of women's smart , and seem to pity them with your heart So many things to us belong , we oftentimes do suffer wrong . Though you in childbid bide some pain , your Babes tends your joys again , Your Gossips comes unto your joy , and says , God bless your little Boy , They say the child is like the Dad , when he but little share in't had . You talk like and Ass you are a Cockoldly fool , I'll break your head with a 3 legd stool Will you poor Women thus abuse , our tongues and hands we need to use . You say our tongues do make men fight , our hands must serve to do us right Then I to you must give the way , and yield to women in what they say , All you that are to choose a wife , be careful of it as your life , You see that women will not yield , in anything to be compelled . You Maids I speak the like to you , there's many dangers do ensue : But howsoever fortune's serve , see that my rules you do observe . If men once have the upper hand , they'll keep you down do what you can . I will not seem to urge no more , good wives what I did say before , Was for your good , and so it take , I love all women for my wives sake . And I pray you when you are sick and die call at my house and take my wife wye . Well , come sweet heart , let us agree : content sweet wife , so let it be , Where man and wife do live at hate , the curse of God hangs over the gate . But I will love thee as my life , as ever man should love his wife , FINIS . Printed for M . Trundle , Widow . A merry Dialogue betwixt a married man and his wife concerning the affairs of this careful life . To and excellent Tune . I Have for all good wives a Song , I do lament the women's wrong , And I do pity them with my heart , to think upon the women's smart , Their labours great and full of pain , yet for the same they have small gain . In that you say cannot be true , for men do take more pains then you , We toil , we moil , we grieve and care , when you fit on a stool or chair , Yet let us do all what we can , your tongues will get the upper hand . We women in the morning rise , as soon as day breaks in the skies , And then to please you with desire , the first we do , is , make a fire , Then other work we straight begin , to sweep the house to carded , or spin , Why men do work at Plough and Cart , which soon would break a woman's heart They sow , they mow , and reap the corn , and many times do wear the horn , In praise of wives speak you no more , for these were lies you told before . We women here do bear the blame , but men would seem to have the same : But trust me I will never yield , my tongue's my own , I thereon built , Men may not in this case compare , with women for their toil and care . Fie , idle women , how you prate , this men that gets you all your state , You know this true in what I say , therefore you must give men the way , And not presume to grow too high , your speeches are not worth a fly . You men could not tell how to shift , if you of women were bereft , We wash your clothes , and dress your diet and all to keep your minds in quiet Our works not done at morn nor night , to pleasure men is our delight . Women are called a house of care ; they bring poor men unto despair , That man is blessed that hath not been , inlured by a woman's since , They'll cause a man if heel give way , to bring him to his lives decay . The second part . To the same tune I f we poor women were as bad , as men report being drunk or mad , We might compare with many men , and count our selves as bad as them , Some oft are drunk and beatrice their wives and make them weary of their lives . Why women they must rule their tongues , that brings them to so many wrongs , Sometime their husbands to disgrace , they'll call him knave and rogue to's face , Nay , worse then that , they'll tell him plain his will he shall not well obtain . We women in childbed take great care , I hope the like sorrow will fall to your share Then would you think of women's smart , and seem to pity them with your heart So many things to us belong , we oftentimes do suffer wrong . Though you in childbid bide some pain , your Babes tends your joys again , Your Gossips comes unto your joy , and says , God bless your little Boy , They say the child is like the Dad , when he but little share in't had . You talk like and Ass you are a Cockoldly fool , I'll break your head with a 3 legd stool Will you poor Women thus abuse , our tongues and hands we need to use . You say our tongues do make men fight , our hands must serve to do us right Then I to you must give the way , and yield to women in what they say , All you that are to choose a wife , be careful of it as your life , You see that women will not yield , in anything to be compelled . You Maids I speak the like to you , there's many dangers do ensue : But howsoever fortune's serve , see that my rules you do observe . If men once have the upper hand , they'll keep you down do what you can . I will not seem to urge no more , good wives what I did say before , Was for your good , and so it take , I love all women for my wives sake . And I pray you when you are sick and die call at my house and take my wife wye . Well , come sweet heart , let us agree : content sweet wife , so let it be , Where man and wife do live at hate , the curse of God hangs over the gate . But I will love thee as my life , as ever man should love his wife , FINIS . Printed for M . Trundle , Widow . 