The Cooper of Norfolke : OR , A pretty Jest of a Brewer , and the Coopers wife : and how the Cooper served the Brewer in his kind . To the tune of The wiving age . A Ttend my master's , and listen well Unto this my ditty , which briefly does tell Of a fine merry Jest which in Norfolke befell A brave lusty Cooper in that Country did dwell , And there he cried work for a Cooper , Maids ha'y any work for a Cooper . This Cooper he had a fair creature to's wife Which a Brewer ith' town loved as deer as his life , But she had a trick which in some wives is rife , She still kept a sheath for another men knife , And often cornuted the Cooper , while he cried , more work for a Cooper . It happened one morning the Cooper out went , To work for his living it was his intent , He trusted his house to his wives government , And left her in bed to her owns hearts content , while he cried , what work for a Cooper , Maids ha'y any work for a Cooper . And as the Cooper was passing a long , Still crying and calling his old wonted song , The Brewer , his rival , both lusty and young , Did think now or never to do him some wrong , and lie with the wife of the Cooper , who better loved him then the Cooper , So calling the Cooper , he to him did say , Go home to my house , and make no delay , I have so much work as thou canst do to day , What ever thou earnest , I'll bountifully pay , these tidings well pleased the Cooper , o this was brave news for the Cooper . Away went the Cooper to the house of the Brewer , Who seeing him hard at his work to endure , Thought he , now for this day the Cooper is sure , I'll go to his wife the green sickness to cure , take heed of your forehead , good Cooper . for now I must work for the Cooper . So strait ways he went to the Coopers dwelling , The good wife to give entertainment was willing : The Brewer & amp ; she like to Pigeons were billing , & amp ; what they did else they have bound me from telling : he pleased the wife of the Cooper , who better loved him then the Cooper . But mark how it happened now at the last , Their sunshine of pleasures was soon overcast , The Cooper did lack one of's Tools and in haste , He came home to fetch it , and found the door fast : Wife , open the door , quoth the Cooper , and let thy husband the Cooper . Now when the goodwife and the Brewer did hear , The Cooper at door , affrighted they were , The Brewer was in such a bodily fear , That for to hide himself , he knew not where , to shun the fierce rage of the Cooper , he thought he should die by the Cooper . The Goodwife perceiving his woeful estate , She having a subtle and politic pate , She suddenly whelmed down a great brewing fat , And closely she covered the Brewer with that , then after she let in the Cooper , what's under this tub , quoth the Cooper , The second part , To the same tune . S He hearing her husband that question demand , She thought it was time to her tackling to stand , Take heed how you move it , quod she , with your hand , For theres a live big , was left by a friend , O let it alone good Cooper , thus she thought to cozen the Cooper . It is a Sow pig the Cooper did say , Let me ha'it to my supper : the Good-Wife said nay . It is sir a Boar pig , quoth she , by my faith , This for mine own diet , it given me to day , It is not for you John Cooper , Then let it alone John Cooper . I would it were in thy belly , quoth John , Indeed then quoth she so it shall be anon , What ere become of it , faith thou shalt have none , Why standest thou here prating , I prithee be gone , Make haste to thy work John Cooper , worse meat's good enough for a Cooper . Cannot a goodwife have a bit now and than , But there must be notice taken by the Good man , I'll ha'it to my dinner sir , do what you can , It may be I long to have all or none , Then prithee content thee good Cooper , O go to thy work John Cooper . The Cooper mistrusted some knavery to be , Hid under the brewing fat , and therefore he Was fully resolved for his minds sake to see , Alas said the Brewer then woe be to me ; O what shall I say to the Cooper , I would I were gone from the Cooper . You Whore quoth the Cooper , is this your boar pig ? He has been well fed , for he's grown very big , I'll either of him have and arm or a leg , I'll make him unable his tail for to wrig Before he gets hence from John Cooper , I'll make him remember the Cooper . O pardon me neighbour the Brewer did say , And for the offence I have done thee this day , I am well contented thy wrath to allay , And make restitution for this my foul play , O prithee forgive me John Cooper , And I'll be a friend to John Cooper . If for this offence thou wilt set me clear , My bouty and love to thee shall appear , I'll freely allow thee and thine all the year , As much as yee'll drink , either strong Ale or beer , Then prithee forgive me John Cooper , Accept of my proffer John Cooper . O , no , quoth the Cooper , I'll have thee to think , That I with my labour can buy my self drink , I'll geld thee , or lame thee , ere from me thou shrink , These words made the Brewer with fear for to stink , he feared the rage of the Cooper , yet still he entreated the Cooper . The Cooper by no means would let go his hold , The Brewer cried out to the Cooper and told Him there was the key of his silver and gold , And gave him free leave to fetch what he would , o then he contented the Cooper these tidings well pleased the Cooper . If thou quoth the Cooper , wilt swear with and oath , To do all thou tellest me , although I am loath , I will be contented to pardon you both : Content , quoth the Brewer , I will be my troth , Here take thou my key , John Cooper , yea , with a good will , quoth the Cooper . On this condition they both went their way , Both John and the Brewer , but John kept the key , Which opened the Coffer where more money lay , Then John the Cooper made many a day : this is a brave fight thought the Cooper , I'll furnish my self thought the Cooper . John was so far in affection with that , That he took up handfuls and filled his hat , I will have my bargain quoth John , that is flat , The Brewer shall pay well for using my Fat ; I'll cry no more work for a Cooper , farewell to the trade of a Cooper , Thus money can pacify the greatest strife , For John never after found fault with his Wife , He left off his Adz , his Saw and his knife , And after lived richly all days of his life , he cried no more work for a Cooper , o he left off the trade of a Cooper . And in his merry mood , oft he would say , If that I had hoopt twenty tubs in one day , I should not have god so much wealth , by my faith , Gramercy kind wife , for thy wit found the way , to make a rich man of John Cooper , o what a good wife has John C ooper . Let no married couple that hear this tale told , Be of the opinion this couple did hold , To fell reputation for silver or gold , For credit and honesty should not be sold , Thus endeth the Song of the C ooper , That cried , ha'y any work for a C ooper . FINIS . The Cooper of Norfolke : OR , A pretty Jest of a Brewer , and the Coopers wife : and how the Cooper served the Brewer in his kind . To the tune of The wiving age . A Ttend my master's , and listen well Unto this my ditty , which briefly does tell Of a fine merry Jest which in Norfolke befell A brave lusty Cooper in that Country did dwell , And there he cried work for a Cooper , Maids ha'y any work for a Cooper . This Cooper he had a fair creature to's wife Which a Brewer ith' town loved as deer as his life , But she had a trick which in some wives is rife , She still kept a sheath for another men knife , And often cornuted the Cooper , while he cried , more work for a Cooper . It happened one morning the Cooper out went , To work for his living it was his intent , He trusted his house to his wives government , And left her in bed to her owns hearts content , while he cried , what work for a Cooper , Maids ha'y any work for a Cooper . And as the Cooper was passing a long , Still crying and calling his old wonted song , The Brewer , his rival , both lusty and young , Did think now or never to do him some wrong , and lie with the wife of the Cooper , who better loved him then the Cooper , So calling the Cooper , he to him did say , Go home to my house , and make no delay , I have so much work as thou canst do to day , What ever thou earnest , I'll bountifully pay , these tidings well pleased the Cooper , o this was brave news for the Cooper . Away went the Cooper to the house of the Brewer , Who seeing him hard at his work to endure , Thought he , now for this day the Cooper is sure , I'll go to his wife the green sickness to cure , take heed of your forehead , good Cooper . for now I must work for the Cooper . So strait ways he went to the Coopers dwelling , The good wife to give entertainment was willing : The Brewer & amp ; she like to Pigeons were billing , & amp ; what they did else they have bound me from telling : he pleased the wife of the Cooper , who better loved him then the Cooper . But mark how it happened now at the last , Their sunshine of pleasures was soon overcast , The Cooper did lack one of's Tools and in haste , He came home to fetch it , and found the door fast : Wife , open the door , quoth the Cooper , and let thy husband the Cooper . Now when the goodwife and the Brewer did hear , The Cooper at door , affrighted they were , The Brewer was in such a bodily fear , That for to hide himself , he knew not where , to shun the fierce rage of the Cooper , he thought he should die by the Cooper . The Goodwife perceiving his woeful estate , She having a subtle and politic pate , She suddenly whelmed down a great brewing fat , And closely she covered the Brewer with that , then after she let in the Cooper , what's under this tub , quoth the Cooper , The second part , To the same tune . S He hearing her husband that question demand , She thought it was time to her tackling to stand , Take heed how you move it , quod she , with your hand , For theres a live big , was left by a friend , O let it alone good Cooper , thus she thought to cozen the Cooper . It is a Sow pig the Cooper did say , Let me ha'it to my supper : the Good-Wife said nay . It is sir a Boar pig , quoth she , by my faith , This for mine own diet , it given me to day , It is not for you John Cooper , Then let it alone John Cooper . I would it were in thy belly , quoth John , Indeed then quoth she so it shall be anon , What ere become of it , faith thou shalt have none , Why standest thou here prating , I prithee be gone , Make haste to thy work John Cooper , worse meat's good enough for a Cooper . Cannot a goodwife have a bit now and than , But there must be notice taken by the Good man , I'll ha'it to my dinner sir , do what you can , It may be I long to have all or none , Then prithee content thee good Cooper , O go to thy work John Cooper . The Cooper mistrusted some knavery to be , Hid under the brewing fat , and therefore he Was fully resolved for his minds sake to see , Alas said the Brewer then woe be to me ; O what shall I say to the Cooper , I would I were gone from the Cooper . You Whore quoth the Cooper , is this your boar pig ? He has been well fed , for he's grown very big , I'll either of him have and arm or a leg , I'll make him unable his tail for to wrig Before he gets hence from John Cooper , I'll make him remember the Cooper . O pardon me neighbour the Brewer did say , And for the offence I have done thee this day , I am well contented thy wrath to allay , And make restitution for this my foul play , O prithee forgive me John Cooper , And I'll be a friend to John Cooper . If for this offence thou wilt set me clear , My bouty and love to thee shall appear , I'll freely allow thee and thine all the year , As much as yee'll drink , either strong Ale or beer , Then prithee forgive me John Cooper , Accept of my proffer John Cooper . O , no , quoth the Cooper , I'll have thee to think , That I with my labour can buy my self drink , I'll geld thee , or lame thee , ere from me thou shrink , These words made the Brewer with fear for to stink , he feared the rage of the Cooper , yet still he entreated the Cooper . The Cooper by no means would let go his hold , The Brewer cried out to the Cooper and told Him there was the key of his silver and gold , And gave him free leave to fetch what he would , o then he contented the Cooper these tidings well pleased the Cooper . If thou quoth the Cooper , wilt swear with and oath , To do all thou tellest me , although I am loath , I will be contented to pardon you both : Content , quoth the Brewer , I will be my troth , Here take thou my key , John Cooper , yea , with a good will , quoth the Cooper . On this condition they both went their way , Both John and the Brewer , but John kept the key , Which opened the Coffer where more money lay , Then John the Cooper made many a day : this is a brave fight thought the Cooper , I'll furnish my self thought the Cooper . John was so far in affection with that , That he took up handfuls and filled his hat , I will have my bargain quoth John , that is flat , The Brewer shall pay well for using my Fat ; I'll cry no more work for a Cooper , farewell to the trade of a Cooper , Thus money can pacify the greatest strife , For John never after found fault with his Wife , He left off his Adz , his Saw and his knife , And after lived richly all days of his life , he cried no more work for a Cooper , o he left off the trade of a Cooper . And in his merry mood , oft he would say , If that I had hoopt twenty tubs in one day , I should not have god so much wealth , by my faith , Gramercy kind wife , for thy wit found the way , to make a rich man of John Cooper , o what a good wife has John C ooper . Let no married couple that hear this tale told , Be of the opinion this couple did hold , To fell reputation for silver or gold , For credit and honesty should not be sold , Thus endeth the Song of the C ooper , That cried , ha'y any work for a C ooper . FINIS . 