The New Broom . P Oore Coridon , did sometime fit hard by the Broom alone : And secretly complained to it , against his only one . He bids the Broom that blooms him by bear witness to his wrong , And thinking that none else was nigh , he thus began his Song : The bonny Broom , the well favoured Broom , the Broom blooms fair on hill , What ailed my Love to lightly me , and I working her will ? If Syrinx for despising Pan the Shepherds god , was changed , Into a Reed , may I not then , hope well to be revenged On Galatea ? whose disdain for sorrow does consume Poor Coridon , who still complains , and mourns among the Broom , The bonny Broom , etc If proud Apollo fell in love with that Penean dame , And left his blessed abided above , to feed his fleshly flame , For pride sin turned in a Tree , that Death should be her Doom : Shall she not sometime sighs for me , and mourn among the Broom ? The bonny Broom , etc For she hath seen my sighs and tears , and knows my kind intent : Yet scorns for to regard my cares , and laughs when I lament . Yet though a look would send relief , to ease my grieved groan : First would she then to end my grief , be buried in the Broom , The bonny Broom , etc O , would she leave her coy disdains , which makes me dwine and die . And pity him who still complains , that she so coy should be , Poor Coridon would out of doubt , his wonted joys resume : And sing her praises round about the borders of the Broom . The bonny Broom , etc But since she still continues coy , and careless of my care : I will awake the blinded Boy , my suit for to declare : That he over whom my Mistress proud so proudly does presume : And make her sighs and sing aloud , sad songs about the Broom : The bonny Broom , etc Else proud Apollo I thee pray , to turn her in a Tree : Pan throw thy pleasant Pipe away , Make her thy Reed to be . In tree or Reed when she is changed , let none of these bear bloom : So will I hold me well revenged , and blithely sing the Broom Bear witness Broome , thou dainty Broom that blooms on hill and dale : Since Galetea lightlies me , I take my long Farewell . FINIS . London Printed for F. Coals . The New Broom . P Oore Coridon , did sometime fit hard by the Broom alone : And secretly complained to it , against his only one . He bids the Broom that blooms him by bear witness to his wrong , And thinking that none else was nigh , he thus began his Song : The bonny Broom , the well favoured Broom , the Broom blooms fair on hill , What ailed my Love to lightly me , and I working her will ? If Syrinx for despising Pan the Shepherds god , was changed , Into a Reed , may I not then , hope well to be revenged On Galatea ? whose disdain for sorrow does consume Poor Coridon , who still complains , and mourns among the Broom , The bonny Broom , etc If proud Apollo fell in love with that Penean dame , And left his blessed abided above , to feed his fleshly flame , For pride sin turned in a Tree , that Death should be her Doom : Shall she not sometime sighs for me , and mourn among the Broom ? The bonny Broom , etc For she hath seen my sighs and tears , and knows my kind intent : Yet scorns for to regard my cares , and laughs when I lament . Yet though a look would send relief , to ease my grieved groan : First would she then to end my grief , be buried in the Broom , The bonny Broom , etc O , would she leave her coy disdains , which makes me dwine and die . And pity him who still complains , that she so coy should be , Poor Coridon would out of doubt , his wonted joys resume : And sing her praises round about the borders of the Broom . The bonny Broom , etc But since she still continues coy , and careless of my care : I will awake the blinded Boy , my suit for to declare : That he over whom my Mistress proud so proudly does presume : And make her sighs and sing aloud , sad songs about the Broom : The bonny Broom , etc Else proud Apollo I thee pray , to turn her in a Tree : Pan throw thy pleasant Pipe away , Make her thy Reed to be . In tree or Reed when she is changed , let none of these bear bloom : So will I hold me well revenged , and blithely sing the Broom Bear witness Broome , thou dainty Broom that blooms on hill and dale : Since Galetea lightlies me , I take my long Farewell . FINIS . London Printed for F. Coals . 