The contented Couckould , Or a pleasant new Song of a New-Castle man whose wife being gone from him , showing how he came to London to her , & amp ; when he found her carried her back again to New-Castle Town . To a very pleasant new Tune . C Om hither thou seaman brave sir what do you require , I prithee tell me if thou can the thing that I desire , Seest thou not my true Love , seest not my Lover go down , And seest thou not my true lover then come through New-Castle Town . And mettest thou not my true Love by the way as you came How should I know your true Love , that have met many a one , She is neither whit nor black but as the heavens fair Her looks are very beautiful , none may with her compare , She hath falsied her word and left me here a lone And seest thou not my true lover then , go through New-Castle Town : She hath left me here alone , alone here as you see , And seest thou not my true lover then , since she hath forsaken me , Sure I saw your true love , or else I saw such a on I n a gown and petticoat gay , go through New-Castle Town . She went towards the sea O thither ward did she bend And with a very brave Coal shipe to London she is wend For when she went abor [ de ] she much was and merry , Sure I did wish then verily she had be in my wherye , This now just two days since that the ship went away , That now a very great way of , the'ir fleeting on the sea , Oh that was my true love , Oh that was my lover true Though she hath now forsaken me , and change me for a new I never gave her cause , why she should me forsake But now alas she is gone to sea , and and other corpse does take . But sure the winds and fates did both together agree Thus to carry a way my love that hath forsaken me But though the winds , did with the fates agree Yet will I never forsake my love , though she hath forsaken me . why hath she left you alone , and other for to take That sometime did love you so d [ e ] are and her joy did you make , I loved her all my youth But now am old you see , Love liketh not the falling fruit nor yet the Withered tree . She is like a careless child forgets her promise past She's blind , she's death , when as she l [ is't ] and in faith never fast , Her desires is fickel found and a trustles joy , I wone her with a world of cares and lost her with a toy . But since I have her love I vow her for to follow , Be it by land or else by sea or yet through dep or shallow , And if I do her find I le count her for min own , Oh then ill bring her back again unto New-Castle Town , The Second part . To the same Tune . TO He sailor rige thy shipe , and thy tacles do provide I tell you true that I do mean , for to go the next tide , Spread forth your sails abroad , and drive into the main , I pray you for to make great haste , weigh anchor thou J olly boat swain . For I think every hour , for to be seaven year , Until that I do find my love , I shall be in great fear , For I [ worser ] oh her for to seek , I know not which way nor whether , But I would the winds and fates , would grapple our shipes together . For many a boisterous blast , here do I abided for thee Tossing and tumbling on the sea , though thou hast forsaken me : Yea greater pains I will , five hundred times endure , So I may win thy love again , and thereof be made sure . But when that thou dost hear , the pains that I do take , For to find thee out again , thou wilt never me forsake , And now to see the seas , how smooth they are and plain , Sure they do Calculate that I , shall find my love again . And now at Gravsend town , we are arrived at last Let us with hearty prayers to God , give thanks for dangers past , Now farewell seamen all , adieu , nay twis adieu , And if I chance to find my love , I le carry her back with you . For I will go down this tide , although that it be late , Where all the way he slept until , he came to Billinggate , But ere that he came their , it early in the morning , Then he went up and down the street , as on that was forlorn . First went he into Cheapside , thinking his lover to find , And after that to London-ston , to satify his mind , So strait through tower street , he passed all along , Where it was his chance to met , his love with a seafringman . But when the man espied her husband was so nigh , Then he made no more adow , but run away presently , Which when her husband spied , unto his wife he came , And kissed her their most lovingly , who blushed for very shame . I l that you will me forgive , and count me for your own , I would go back again with you , unto New-Castle Town , At which words he was full glad , that she so soon was won , Then prithee sweated go back again , unto New-Castle Town . Thus were they both a greed , to go together home , where we will leave them for a while , going to New-Castle Town . Thus was the poor man glad , that he had god his wife home , But he for a cuckold ever went , in fair New-Castle Town . FINIS . Printed at London by W . I.The contented Couckould , Or a pleasant new Song of a New-Castle man whose wife being gone from him , showing how he came to London to her , & amp ; when he found her carried her back again to New-Castle Town . To a very pleasant new Tune . C Om hither thou seaman brave sir what do you require , I prithee tell me if thou can the thing that I desire , Seest thou not my true Love , seest not my Lover go down , And seest thou not my true lover then come through New-Castle Town . And mettest thou not my true Love by the way as you came How should I know your true Love , that have met many a one , She is neither whit nor black but as the heavens fair Her looks are very beautiful , none may with her compare , She hath falsied her word and left me here a lone And seest thou not my true lover then , go through New-Castle Town : She hath left me here alone , alone here as you see , And seest thou not my true lover then , since she hath forsaken me , Sure I saw your true love , or else I saw such a on I n a gown and petticoat gay , go through New-Castle Town . She went towards the sea O thither ward did she bend And with a very brave Coal shipe to London she is wend For when she went abor [ de ] she much was and merry , Sure I did wish then verily she had be in my wherye , This now just two days since that the ship went away , That now a very great way of , the'ir fleeting on the sea , Oh that was my true love , Oh that was my lover true Though she hath now forsaken me , and change me for a new I never gave her cause , why she should me forsake But now alas she is gone to sea , and and other corpse does take . But sure the winds and fates did both together agree Thus to carry a way my love that hath forsaken me But though the winds , did with the fates agree Yet will I never forsake my love , though she hath forsaken me . why hath she left you alone , and other for to take That sometime did love you so d [ e ] are and her joy did you make , I loved her all my youth But now am old you see , Love liketh not the falling fruit nor yet the Withered tree . She is like a careless child forgets her promise past She's blind , she's death , when as she l [ is't ] and in faith never fast , Her desires is fickel found and a trustles joy , I wone her with a world of cares and lost her with a toy . But since I have her love I vow her for to follow , Be it by land or else by sea or yet through dep or shallow , And if I do her find I le count her for min own , Oh then ill bring her back again unto New-Castle Town , The Second part . To the same Tune . TO He sailor rige thy shipe , and thy tacles do provide I tell you true that I do mean , for to go the next tide , Spread forth your sails abroad , and drive into the main , I pray you for to make great haste , weigh anchor thou J olly boat swain . For I think every hour , for to be seaven year , Until that I do find my love , I shall be in great fear , For I [ worser ] oh her for to seek , I know not which way nor whether , But I would the winds and fates , would grapple our shipes together . For many a boisterous blast , here do I abided for thee Tossing and tumbling on the sea , though thou hast forsaken me : Yea greater pains I will , five hundred times endure , So I may win thy love again , and thereof be made sure . But when that thou dost hear , the pains that I do take , For to find thee out again , thou wilt never me forsake , And now to see the seas , how smooth they are and plain , Sure they do Calculate that I , shall find my love again . And now at Gravsend town , we are arrived at last Let us with hearty prayers to God , give thanks for dangers past , Now farewell seamen all , adieu , nay twis adieu , And if I chance to find my love , I le carry her back with you . For I will go down this tide , although that it be late , Where all the way he slept until , he came to Billinggate , But ere that he came their , it early in the morning , Then he went up and down the street , as on that was forlorn . First went he into Cheapside , thinking his lover to find , And after that to London-ston , to satify his mind , So strait through tower street , he passed all along , Where it was his chance to met , his love with a seafringman . But when the man espied her husband was so nigh , Then he made no more adow , but run away presently , Which when her husband spied , unto his wife he came , And kissed her their most lovingly , who blushed for very shame . I l that you will me forgive , and count me for your own , I would go back again with you , unto New-Castle Town , At which words he was full glad , that she so soon was won , Then prithee sweated go back again , unto New-Castle Town . Thus were they both a greed , to go together home , where we will leave them for a while , going to New-Castle Town . Thus was the poor man glad , that he had god his wife home , But he for a cuckold ever went , in fair New-Castle Town . FINIS . Printed at London by W.I. 