The cunning Age . OR A remarried Woman repenting her Marriage , Rehearsing her Husbands dishonest carriage . Being a pleasant Dialogue between a remarried Woman , a Widow , and a young Wife . To the Tune of The Wiving Age . Widow . G ood morrow , kind Gossip , why whither so fast ? I pray stay a while , I know ther's no haste , And let's chat a while of some things that are past ; I hear say you're married since I saw you last ; Oh this is a hasty Age , Oh this is a hasty Age . Mar. Woman . It's true , I am married , which hath been my bane , But if that I were now a Widow again , I so would continue ; but grief is in vain , I must be contented to sing this sad strain , O fie on this cozening Age , O fie on this etc Wid. O , do you so quickly your bargain repent , And yet you thought long ever about it you went ? If marriage bring trouble , in time I'll prevent All future unquietness , and be content To shun such a cozening Age , To shun etc Mar. Wo. O , woe is me , Gossip , that ever I was born , I married a Boy , that now holds me in scorn , He romes among Whores both evening and morn , While I fit at home , like a creature forlorn . O , this is a cozening Age , O , etc Wid. O , who would imagine that such a young Lad , That scarce was worth twelve pence with all that he had , Should wed a rich woman , and use her so bad ? I trust I shall never be so doting mad , To match in this cozening Age , etc Mar. Wo. The grief that I suffer can hardly be told , Among Whores and Knaves he consumeth my gold , And if I reprove him , he tells me I scold , I dare not dispose of mine own as I would . O fie on this doting Age , O fie on the doting Age . Wid. Well , by your example I warning will take , With no Skip-jacke boy a match I will make ; Two Suitors I have , but I both will forsake , For some that are found , as they brew let them bake ; I'll take heed of this cunning Age , I'll take heed of this cunning Age . Mar. Wo. Well , do so , good Gossip , and so Fare you well , My goodly new husband will curse me to hell : Old John , ( God be with him ) my neighbours can tell , Did never in's life give me mouthful of ill . O fie on this doting Age , O fie on this doting Age . Wid. There is and old Proverb , that oft hath been tried , Set a Beggar on horseback , to'th Gallows heel ride ; So , wed a young Boy , he's so puffed up with pride , They'll marry rich Widow's , to scoff and deride . O this is a cozening Age , Oh this is a cozening Age . FINIS . John Cart. The Second Part. To the same Tune . Married Woman . B Ut stay , who comes yonder ? it's well that I tarried : My kinswoman Katherin , she lately was married , She had better gone to the Church to be buried , With her now , I doubt , things are otherwise carryd , She curseth this cozening Age , She curseth this cozening Age . Young Wife . What Cousin and neighbour , are you met together ? It's well that I happened so luckily hither , I long have desired to talk with you either ; Come , stand not i'th street , let's go travel somwhither O fie on this cozening Age , O fie on this etc Both to the young Wife . Well , how dost thou like of thy Husband , good Kate ? We hear of a certain th'art married of late With a wealthy old widower , to better thy state , Who loves thee as deer as the Turtle his mate : That's rare in this cozening Age , That's rare etc Young Wife . O woe is me , Cousin that ever 'twas done , A beggarly slave my affection hath won ; He bragged of his riches , whereof he had none , But five little Children , foure Girls , and a Son , O fie on this coozennig Age , O fie on this etc When he came a wooing , he borrowed a Cloak , And Rings to his fingers , my love to provoke ; The devil a word of his Children he spoke , But now we are married , I find that he's broke , O fie on this cozening Age , O fie on this etc Beside , he's so jealous , that if I but look On any Youngman , he'll be sworn on a book , That I make him Cuckold by hook or by crook ; This doting suspicion no woman can brook . O fie on this doting Age , etc Mar. Wom. It seems then , good Kate , we are both alike sped , Ill fortune had we , with such Husbands to wed : For if all be true that here thou hast said , I would either we , or our Husbands were dead . O fie on this cozening Age , O fie on this cozening Age . Wid. Your speeches will make me still willing to tarry , Sith Widow's and Bachelors both do miscarry ; Yet it's said in London , that when we do bury Our Husbands , next month we are ready to marry : O this is a lying Age , O this is etc Nay more , to abash us , the Poets o'th times , Do blazon us forth in their Ballads and Rhymes , With bitter invective satyrical lines , As though we had done some notorious crimes . O this is a scandalous Age . O this is etc I would I the Poet could get in my clutches , He were better write ballads against the Arch-dutches : There is one more ballad that sorely us touches , The hetrocl [ it ] e Singer , that goes upon Crutches , Does roar out the Wiving Age , Does roar out etc But it's no great matter , let Knaves say their worst , And swell with foul envy until they do burst . I keep you so long , I shall make you be cursed , I could find in heart to stay still , if you durst : O now comes the parting Age , O now comes the parting Age . FINIS . Printed at London for John Trundle . The cunning Age . OR A remarried Woman repenting her Marriage , Rehearsing her Husbands dishonest carriage . Being a pleasant Dialogue between a remarried Woman , a Widow , and a young Wife . To the Tune of The Wiving Age . Widow . G ood morrow , kind Gossip , why whither so fast ? I pray stay a while , I know ther's no haste , And let's chat a while of some things that are past ; I hear say you're married since I saw you last ; Oh this is a hasty Age , Oh this is a hasty Age . Mar. Woman . It's true , I am married , which hath been my bane , But if that I were now a Widow again , I so would continue ; but grief is in vain , I must be contented to sing this sad strain , O fie on this cozening Age , O fie on this etc Wid. O , do you so quickly your bargain repent , And yet you thought long ever about it you went ? If marriage bring trouble , in time I'll prevent All future unquietness , and be content To shun such a cozening Age , To shun etc Mar. Wo. O , woe is me , Gossip , that ever I was born , I married a Boy , that now holds me in scorn , He romes among Whores both evening and morn , While I fit at home , like a creature forlorn . O , this is a cozening Age , O , etc Wid. O , who would imagine that such a young Lad , That scarce was worth twelve pence with all that he had , Should wed a rich woman , and use her so bad ? I trust I shall never be so doting mad , To match in this cozening Age , etc Mar. Wo. The grief that I suffer can hardly be told , Among Whores and Knaves he consumeth my gold , And if I reprove him , he tells me I scold , I dare not dispose of mine own as I would . O fie on this doting Age , O fie on the doting Age . Wid. Well , by your example I warning will take , With no Skip-jacke boy a match I will make ; Two Suitors I have , but I both will forsake , For some that are found , as they brew let them bake ; I'll take heed of this cunning Age , I'll take heed of this cunning Age . Mar. Wo. Well , do so , good Gossip , and so Fare you well , My goodly new husband will curse me to hell : Old John , ( God be with him ) my neighbours can tell , Did never in's life give me mouthful of ill . O fie on this doting Age , O fie on this doting Age . Wid. There is and old Proverb , that oft hath been tried , Set a Beggar on horseback , to'th Gallows heel ride ; So , wed a young Boy , he's so puffed up with pride , They'll marry rich Widow's , to scoff and deride . O this is a cozening Age , Oh this is a cozening Age . FINIS . John Cart. The Second Part. To the same Tune . Married Woman . B Ut stay , who comes yonder ? it's well that I tarried : My kinswoman Katherin , she lately was married , She had better gone to the Church to be buried , With her now , I doubt , things are otherwise carryd , She curseth this cozening Age , She curseth this cozening Age . Young Wife . What Cousin and neighbour , are you met together ? It's well that I happened so luckily hither , I long have desired to talk with you either ; Come , stand not i'th street , let's go travel somwhither O fie on this cozening Age , O fie on this etc Both to the young Wife . Well , how dost thou like of thy Husband , good Kate ? We hear of a certain th'art married of late With a wealthy old widower , to better thy state , Who loves thee as deer as the Turtle his mate : That's rare in this cozening Age , That's rare etc Young Wife . O woe is me , Cousin that ever 'twas done , A beggarly slave my affection hath won ; He bragged of his riches , whereof he had none , But five little Children , foure Girls , and a Son , O fie on this coozennig Age , O fie on this etc When he came a wooing , he borrowed a Cloak , And Rings to his fingers , my love to provoke ; The devil a word of his Children he spoke , But now we are married , I find that he's broke , O fie on this cozening Age , O fie on this etc Beside , he's so jealous , that if I but look On any Youngman , he'll be sworn on a book , That I make him Cuckold by hook or by crook ; This doting suspicion no woman can brook . O fie on this doting Age , etc Mar. Wom. It seems then , good Kate , we are both alike sped , Ill fortune had we , with such Husbands to wed : For if all be true that here thou hast said , I would either we , or our Husbands were dead . O fie on this cozening Age , O fie on this cozening Age . Wid. Your speeches will make me still willing to tarry , Sith Widow's and Bachelors both do miscarry ; Yet it's said in London , that when we do bury Our Husbands , next month we are ready to marry : O this is a lying Age , O this is etc Nay more , to abash us , the Poets o'th times , Do blazon us forth in their Ballads and Rhymes , With bitter invective satyrical lines , As though we had done some notorious crimes . O this is a scandalous Age . O this is etc I would I the Poet could get in my clutches , He were better write ballads against the Arch-dutches : There is one more ballad that sorely us touches , The hetrocl [ it ] e Singer , that goes upon Crutches , Does roar out the Wiving Age , Does roar out etc But it's no great matter , let Knaves say their worst , And swell with foul envy until they do burst . I keep you so long , I shall make you be cursed , I could find in heart to stay still , if you durst : O now comes the parting Age , O now comes the parting Age . FINIS . Printed at London for John Trundle . 