The praise of Sailors , here set forth , with their hard fortune's which do befall them on the Seas , when Land-men sleep safe in their Beds . To a pleasant new tune . A S I lay musing in my bed , full warm and well at ease , I thought upon the lodging hard poor Sailors have at Seas . They bide it out with hunger and cold , and many a bitter blast , And many a time constrained they are for to cut down their Mast , Their victuals and their Ordinance , and ought else that they have , They throw it overboard with speed , and seek their lives to save . When as the raging Seas do foam , and lofty winds do blow , The Sailors they go to the top , when Land-men stay below . Our Master's Mate takes Helm in hand , his Course he steers full well , When as the lofty winds do blow , and raging Seas do swell . Our Master to his Compass goes , so well he plies his charge : He sends a Youth to the Top amain , for to unsling the Yards . The Boatson he's under the Deck , a man of courage bold ; To top to top , my lively Lads , hold fast my hearts of gold . The Pilot he stands on the Claine , with Live and Led to found , To see how far and near they are from any dangerous ground . It is a testimonial good , we are not far from land , There sits a Mermaid on the Rock , with Comb and Glass in hand . Our Captain he is on the Poop , a man of might and power , And looks when raging Seas do gape our bodies to devour . Our royal Ship is run to rack , that was so stout and trim , And some are put unto their shifts , either to sink or swim . The Second Part. To the same tune . O Ur Ship that was before so good , and eke likewise so trim , Is now with raging Seas grown leaked , and water fast comes in . The Quarter master is a man , so well his charge plies he , He calls them to the Pump amain , to keep their leak-ship free . And many dangers likewise they do many times endure , When as they meet their enemies , that come with might and power ; And seek likewise from them to take their lives and eke their goods : Thus Sailors they sometime endure , upon the surging floods . But when as they do come to Land , and homeward safe return , They are most kind good fellows all , and scorn ever to mourn . And likewise they will call for Wine , and score it on the post : For Sailors they are honest men , and will pay well their Oast . For Saylors they be honest men , and they do take great pains , When landed men and rusling lads , do rob them of their games . Our Sailors they work night and day , their manhood for to try , When landed men and rustling Jacks , do in their Cabins lie . Therefore let all good minded men , give ear unto my Song , And say also as well as I , Saylors deserve no wrong . This have I done for Saylors sakes , in token of good will : If ever I can do them good , I will be ready still . God bless them eke by Sea and land , and also other men ; And as my Song beginning had , so must it have and end . FINIS . Printed for I . Wright . The praise of Sailors , here set forth , with their hard fortune's which do befall them on the Seas , when Land-men sleep safe in their Beds . To a pleasant new tune . A S I lay musing in my bed , full warm and well at ease , I thought upon the lodging hard poor Sailors have at Seas . They bide it out with hunger and cold , and many a bitter blast , And many a time constrained they are for to cut down their Mast , Their victuals and their Ordinance , and ought else that they have , They throw it overboard with speed , and seek their lives to save . When as the raging Seas do foam , and lofty winds do blow , The Sailors they go to the top , when Land-men stay below . Our Master's Mate takes Helm in hand , his Course he steers full well , When as the lofty winds do blow , and raging Seas do swell . Our Master to his Compass goes , so well he plies his charge : He sends a Youth to the Top amain , for to unsling the Yards . The Boatson he's under the Deck , a man of courage bold ; To top to top , my lively Lads , hold fast my hearts of gold . The Pilot he stands on the Claine , with Live and Led to found , To see how far and near they are from any dangerous ground . It is a testimonial good , we are not far from land , There sits a Mermaid on the Rock , with Comb and Glass in hand . Our Captain he is on the Poop , a man of might and power , And looks when raging Seas do gape our bodies to devour . Our royal Ship is run to rack , that was so stout and trim , And some are put unto their shifts , either to sink or swim . The Second Part. To the same tune . O Ur Ship that was before so good , and eke likewise so trim , Is now with raging Seas grown leaked , and water fast comes in . The Quarter master is a man , so well his charge plies he , He calls them to the Pump amain , to keep their leak-ship free . And many dangers likewise they do many times endure , When as they meet their enemies , that come with might and power ; And seek likewise from them to take their lives and eke their goods : Thus Sailors they sometime endure , upon the surging floods . But when as they do come to Land , and homeward safe return , They are most kind good fellows all , and scorn ever to mourn . And likewise they will call for Wine , and score it on the post : For Sailors they are honest men , and will pay well their Oast . For Saylors they be honest men , and they do take great pains , When landed men and rusling lads , do rob them of their games . Our Sailors they work night and day , their manhood for to try , When landed men and rustling Jacks , do in their Cabins lie . Therefore let all good minded men , give ear unto my Song , And say also as well as I , Saylors deserve no wrong . This have I done for Saylors sakes , in token of good will : If ever I can do them good , I will be ready still . God bless them eke by Sea and land , and also other men ; And as my Song beginning had , so must it have and end . FINIS . Printed for I . Wright . 