The Constant Wife of Sussex , Unto you here I will declare , A story wonderful and rare , Of a wife to prevent her husbands shame , Upon her self took all the blame . To the tune of , I have for all good wives a song . L Is't to my dity Country men , I will decipher with my pen , A story strange and yet most true give ear to that which will ensue , No foreign news I have to tell , but of a jest which late befell . A wealthy Yeoman lived of late , a man that was of good estate : Within the County of Sussex fair his wife and he had never and heir Yet at the last as may appear they god two Children in one year . As on a day the good men wife , whom he did love as his own life Unto her husband thus spoke she , I must a neighbours wife go see . That lies in Childbed , therefore John , I mean to visit her anon . The good wife being parted so , the man unto his maid did go : These words in courtesy he said unto Elizabeth his maid , You labour hard and take great pain , but other follies have all the gain . Now note the words that I shall say , thy Dame is gone out of the way Therefore to help thee work I'll do I'll dress the house and sweep it too , To make the bed I will not fail , milk thou the Cow isle hold the pail . Unto the same the maid agreed and so to work they went with speed Before her Dame that she came home , they never a chare had left undone How blessed am I the good wife said , that have so good a working maid , But time that tempereth every thing , did to this house contentment bring , Ere fortie weeks were gone and passed the man had his desire at last Then mark the sequel while I tell how every thing in order fell . For first of all the good wife mild was safe delivered of a child Old mother midnight and the rest their duties every one expressed And by the fire with Cakes and Ale , each neighbour told a merry tale . One told a tale of John-a-Ree . another of great Cloudeslee , The third spoke much of Robbin-hood all this did Besse the maid no good : For though poor soul her belly did ache yet never a word she durst to speak . The midwife brought to good effect the thing that she did most expect , Each neighbour went unto her home and left the midwife there alone , To dress & amp ; trim the good men daughter but note the jest that follows after Poor Besse bewails her destiny within a Cockloft grievously Which in her Master's ear did found , her grief that time did so abound That he desired the midwifes love , so much that then she would go prove The second part . To the same tune . H Owe all things stood with Besse the maid , who came with speed and to her said , What cheer my girl how'ist with thee the truth of all declare to me : Who answered her with speeches mild I by my Master am with Child . But to be short the midwife kind , began to ponder in her mind How to contrive there businesses so , no party of the same should know , Save only foure which here is said , her self , the master , dame , and maid . Lucina lent a helping hand , as you may plainly understand Who brought to light a chopping boy , judge was not this a happy day , The man in the morning had a daughter , by chance ere night a son came after . Which by the midwife was brought down , the strangest thing that hath been known This hundred year , is brought to light said she performed is this night : And b [ ei ] ng of most gentle speech , she did the woman then beseech . To take this boy as for her own quoth she if this thing should be shown Will be to your discredit both therefore sweet neighbour be not loath To nurse this child and keep it warm poor boy it thinks no creature harm . The good wife seemed well content and furthermore she gave free consent To find it meat and drink and cloth and therewithal she made and oath , The Infant it should never lack when she a coat had to her back This done the midwife took her way , pointing to come oath Christening day And spend in mirth and hour or two , and so should all her neighbours do , The time being come the gossips all together met both great and small . Then said the midwife to the rest give ear and you shall hear expressed , When you were gone what hap befell , unto you I will briefly tell : A girl you know came first in sighed , but God sent us a boy ere night . This made the people wonder soar , as well they might , for never before They herd the like : so now in haste one thing isle speak and end my Jest , Each creatures heart did leap for joy , they cried Lord love this little boy . This Besse was then to London sent , her Dame and Master well content , Where she had but a small time stayed , but to a gallant she was married : The proverb is fulfilled thereby , the blind oft time does eat the fly . But for the woman which did save , her husbands credit I do crave , Good fortune on her may attend and guide her to her later end : And unto every constant wife I wish long days and happy life . FINIS . London printed for Fr. Coals . The Constant Wife of Sussex , Unto you here I will declare , A story wonderful and rare , Of a wife to prevent her husbands shame , Upon her self took all the blame . To the tune of , I have for all good wives a song . L Is't to my dity Country men , I will decipher with my pen , A story strange and yet most true give ear to that which will ensue , No foreign news I have to tell , but of a jest which late befell . A wealthy Yeoman lived of late , a man that was of good estate : Within the County of Sussex fair his wife and he had never and heir Yet at the last as may appear they god two Children in one year . As on a day the good men wife , whom he did love as his own life Unto her husband thus spoke she , I must a neighbours wife go see . That lies in Childbed , therefore John , I mean to visit her anon . The good wife being parted so , the man unto his maid did go : These words in courtesy he said unto Elizabeth his maid , You labour hard and take great pain , but other follies have all the gain . Now note the words that I shall say , thy Dame is gone out of the way Therefore to help thee work I'll do I'll dress the house and sweep it too , To make the bed I will not fail , milk thou the Cow isle hold the pail . Unto the same the maid agreed and so to work they went with speed Before her Dame that she came home , they never a chare had left undone How blessed am I the good wife said , that have so good a working maid , But time that tempereth every thing , did to this house contentment bring , Ere fortie weeks were gone and passed the man had his desire at last Then mark the sequel while I tell how every thing in order fell . For first of all the good wife mild was safe delivered of a child Old mother midnight and the rest their duties every one expressed And by the fire with Cakes and Ale , each neighbour told a merry tale . One told a tale of John-a-Ree . another of great Cloudeslee , The third spoke much of Robbin-hood all this did Besse the maid no good : For though poor soul her belly did ache yet never a word she durst to speak . The midwife brought to good effect the thing that she did most expect , Each neighbour went unto her home and left the midwife there alone , To dress & amp ; trim the good men daughter but note the jest that follows after Poor Besse bewails her destiny within a Cockloft grievously Which in her Master's ear did found , her grief that time did so abound That he desired the midwifes love , so much that then she would go prove The second part . To the same tune . H Owe all things stood with Besse the maid , who came with speed and to her said , What cheer my girl how'ist with thee the truth of all declare to me : Who answered her with speeches mild I by my Master am with Child . But to be short the midwife kind , began to ponder in her mind How to contrive there businesses so , no party of the same should know , Save only foure which here is said , her self , the master , dame , and maid . Lucina lent a helping hand , as you may plainly understand Who brought to light a chopping boy , judge was not this a happy day , The man in the morning had a daughter , by chance ere night a son came after . Which by the midwife was brought down , the strangest thing that hath been known This hundred year , is brought to light said she performed is this night : And b [ ei ] ng of most gentle speech , she did the woman then beseech . To take this boy as for her own quoth she if this thing should be shown Will be to your discredit both therefore sweet neighbour be not loath To nurse this child and keep it warm poor boy it thinks no creature harm . The good wife seemed well content and furthermore she gave free consent To find it meat and drink and cloth and therewithal she made and oath , The Infant it should never lack when she a coat had to her back This done the midwife took her way , pointing to come oath Christening day And spend in mirth and hour or two , and so should all her neighbours do , The time being come the gossips all together met both great and small . Then said the midwife to the rest give ear and you shall hear expressed , When you were gone what hap befell , unto you I will briefly tell : A girl you know came first in sighed , but God sent us a boy ere night . This made the people wonder soar , as well they might , for never before They herd the like : so now in haste one thing isle speak and end my Jest , Each creatures heart did leap for joy , they cried Lord love this little boy . This Besse was then to London sent , her Dame and Master well content , Where she had but a small time stayed , but to a gallant she was married : The proverb is fulfilled thereby , the blind oft time does eat the fly . But for the woman which did save , her husbands credit I do crave , Good fortune on her may attend and guide her to her later end : And unto every constant wife I wish long days and happy life . FINIS . London printed for Fr. Coals . 