Saylors for my money A new Ditty composed in the praise of Saylors and Sea affairs , briefly show - ing the nature of so worthy a calling , and effects of their industry . To the tune of the Jovial Cobbler . C Ountrie men of England , who live at home with ease : And little think what dangers , Are incident o'th Seas : Give ear unto the Sailor Who unto you will show : His case , His case : How ere the wind does blow . He that is a Sailor , Must have a valiant heart : For when he is upon the sea , He is not like to start : But must with noble courage , All dangers undergo . Resolve , Resolve : How ere the wind does blow . Our calling is laborious , And subject to much woe : But we must still contented be : With what falls to our share . we must not be faint hearted , Come tempest rain or snow : Nor shrink : Nor shrink : How ere the wind does blow . Sometime one Neptunes bosom Our ship is tossed with waves And every minite we expect , The sea must be our graves Sometime on high she mounts , Then falls again as low : with waves : with waves : When stormy winds do blow . Then with unfeigned prayers , As Christian duty binds , we turn unto the Lord of hosts , With all our hearts and minds , To him we flee for succour , For he we surely know , can save : can save , How ere the wind does blow . Then he who breaks the rage : The rough & amp ; blusterous seas , When his disciples were afraid , Will straight the storms appease And give us cause to thank On bent knees full low who saves : who saves , How ere the wind does blow . Our enemies approaching , When we on sea espy , we must resolve incontinent To fight , although we die , With noble resolution we must oppose our foe , in fight , in fight : How ere the wind do blow . And when by Gods assistance , Our foes are put to'th foil , To animate our courages , we all have share o'th spoil , Our foes into the Ocean , we back to back do throw , to sink , or swim , How ere the wind does blow . The Second part . To the same tune . TO Hus we gallant seamen , In midst of greatest dangers , Do always prove our valour , we never are no changer's : But what so ere betide us , we stoutly undergo , resolved , resolved , How ere the wind does blow . If fortune do befriend us . In what we take in hand , we prove ourselves still generous When ere we come to land , Ther's few that shall out brave us , Though near so great in show , we spend , and lend , How ere the wind does blow . We travel to the Indies , From them we bring some spice Here we buy rich Merchandise , At very little prize ; And many wealthy prizes , We conquer from the foe : In fight : In fight , How ere the wind does blow . Into our native Country , With wealth we do return : And cheer our wives & amp ; children , Who for our absence mourn . Then do we bravely flourish , And where so ere we go : We roar : We roar : How ere the wind does blow . For when we have received , Our wages for our pains : The Vintners & amp ; the Tapsters , By us have golden gains . We call for liquour roundly , And pay before we go : and sing : and drink , How ere the wind does blow . we bravely are respected , When we walk up & amp ; down , For if we meet good company , we care not for a crown , Ther's none more free then sailors Where ere he come or go , th'eile roar , o'th shore , How ere the wind does blow . Then who would live in England And nourish vice with ease , When he that is in poverty , May riches get o'th' seas : Lets sail unto the Indies , Where golden grass does grow , to sea , to sea , How ere the wind does blow . FINIS . M . P . Printed at London for C. Wright . Saylors for my money A new Ditty composed in the praise of Saylors and Sea affairs , briefly show - ing the nature of so worthy a calling , and effects of their industry . To the tune of the Jovial Cobbler . C Ountrie men of England , who live at home with ease : And little think what dangers , Are incident o'th Seas : Give ear unto the Sailor Who unto you will show : His case , His case : How ere the wind does blow . He that is a Sailor , Must have a valiant heart : For when he is upon the sea , He is not like to start : But must with noble courage , All dangers undergo . Resolve , Resolve : How ere the wind does blow . Our calling is laborious , And subject to much woe : But we must still contented be : With what falls to our share . we must not be faint hearted , Come tempest rain or snow : Nor shrink : Nor shrink : How ere the wind does blow . Sometime one Neptunes bosom Our ship is tossed with waves And every minite we expect , The sea must be our graves Sometime on high she mounts , Then falls again as low : with waves : with waves : When stormy winds do blow . Then with unfeigned prayers , As Christian duty binds , we turn unto the Lord of hosts , With all our hearts and minds , To him we flee for succour , For he we surely know , can save : can save , How ere the wind does blow . Then he who breaks the rage : The rough & amp ; blusterous seas , When his disciples were afraid , Will straight the storms appease And give us cause to thank On bent knees full low who saves : who saves , How ere the wind does blow . Our enemies approaching , When we on sea espy , we must resolve incontinent To fight , although we die , With noble resolution we must oppose our foe , in fight , in fight : How ere the wind do blow . And when by Gods assistance , Our foes are put to'th foil , To animate our courages , we all have share o'th spoil , Our foes into the Ocean , we back to back do throw , to sink , or swim , How ere the wind does blow . The Second part . To the same tune . TO Hus we gallant seamen , In midst of greatest dangers , Do always prove our valour , we never are no changer's : But what so ere betide us , we stoutly undergo , resolved , resolved , How ere the wind does blow . If fortune do befriend us . In what we take in hand , we prove ourselves still generous When ere we come to land , Ther's few that shall out brave us , Though near so great in show , we spend , and lend , How ere the wind does blow . We travel to the Indies , From them we bring some spice Here we buy rich Merchandise , At very little prize ; And many wealthy prizes , We conquer from the foe : In fight : In fight , How ere the wind does blow . Into our native Country , With wealth we do return : And cheer our wives & amp ; children , Who for our absence mourn . Then do we bravely flourish , And where so ere we go : We roar : We roar : How ere the wind does blow . For when we have received , Our wages for our pains : The Vintners & amp ; the Tapsters , By us have golden gains . We call for liquour roundly , And pay before we go : and sing : and drink , How ere the wind does blow . we bravely are respected , When we walk up & amp ; down , For if we meet good company , we care not for a crown , Ther's none more free then sailors Where ere he come or go , th'eile roar , o'th shore , How ere the wind does blow . Then who would live in England And nourish vice with ease , When he that is in poverty , May riches get o'th' seas : Lets sail unto the Indies , Where golden grass does grow , to sea , to sea , How ere the wind does blow . FINIS . M . P . Printed at London for C. Wright . 