A goodfellows complaint against strong beer , OR Take heed goodfellows for here you may see How it is strong beer that hath undone me . To the Tune of a day will come shall pay for all . A LL you good fellows who love strong beer , In time be warned the same to flee For I can make it plain appear How this strong bear that has undone me . I bid all company to keep , Which was my downfall now I see For poverty on me does creep , And this strong beerre that has undone me . I once enjoyed both house and land , But now t'is otherwise you see , My moneys spent my clothes are pawned : And this strong beer that has undone me . Now I have wasted my estate , Which was enough to maintain three , Ime feign to live at and under rate , For this strong beer that has undone me . O how it grieves my heart to think , That they who had my money free . Now I am poor from me they shrink , Oh how this strong beer has undone me . When I had coin enough to spend , Among good fellows who but me , Then each one strove to be my friend : Until strong beer had undone me . Now all is gone and nothing left , It is not as it was wont to be , Of all my friends I am bereft , Oh thus strong beer has undone me . For now my company thy shun , And where I come away they flee , Which makes me sing this heavy tune : Oh this strong beer that has undone more . They say this money makes a man , Experience proves it true I see , For my associates from me rane , When thus strong beer had undone me , For when I had clothes to my back , And coin to call for liquour free , I never did companions lack , Until strong beer had undone me . But now I have consumed all , And am as poor as poor may be , Here's many laugh to see my fallen , Now this strong beer has undone me . The world is grown to such a pass , That if your means consumed be , You shall be counted but and ass And thus strong beer hath undone me . The second part . To the same Tune W Hen I had coin no tapster durst , Refuse to trust me shillings three , But now thele see my money first , Because strong beer has undone me . Unto a Tapster once I came , You're welcome Sir , draw near quoth he , But now the slave won't know my name , Because strong beer has undone me . My little hosts at the crown , Would often fit upon my knee , But now sheele cry away thou clown , Because strong beer has undone me . Beside ther's Tapsters three or foure , Where I have spent my money free , Are like to thrust me out of door , And say there is no room for me . But if I could get up my means , As that I doubt will never be , I sure would fit those Knaves and Queens , But now strong beer has undone me . O is not this a hellish spite , That I should thus rejected be , Who lately lived in such delight , Before strong beer had undone me . When I do call to mind the days , Which I again shall never see , In which torments me many ways , Alas strong beer has undone me . Full many a shilling have I spent , And cried hang sorrow let it fly , In drink and smoke away it went , And thus strong beer hath undone me . Then who but I among the rout , Of Jovial Blades should welcome be , But now my poverty they flout , Because strong beer has undone me . Then would good fellows to me say , Here honest Jacke isle drink to thee , Because they knew I still would pay , Until strong beer had undone me . Now they who hung upon my purse , If I through want should starved be , Will not a groat for me disburse , Because strong beer has undone me . And if I pass by the alehouse door , My host will say , look there goes he , I knew him rich but now he's poor , And thus strong beer has undone me . All you good fellows that hear my case , Take heed lest in your own case be , I might have lived void of disgrace , Had not strong beer thus undone me . Shake of ill company in time , Which wrongeth many a man you see , Now I through them am like to pine , And this strong beer that has undone me . Farewell strong beer my mortal foe , I'll drink no more therefore of thee , A good cause why my purse is low , For thou strong beer hast undone me . F I N I S. Printed for F. Grove . A goodfellows complaint against strong beer , OR Take heed goodfellows for here you may see How it is strong beer that hath undone me . To the Tune of a day will come shall pay for all . A LL you good fellows who love strong beer , In time be warned the same to flee For I can make it plain appear How this strong bear that has undone me . I bid all company to keep , Which was my downfall now I see For poverty on me does creep , And this strong beerre that has undone me . I once enjoyed both house and land , But now t'is otherwise you see , My moneys spent my clothes are pawned : And this strong beer that has undone me . Now I have wasted my estate , Which was enough to maintain three , Ime feign to live at and under rate , For this strong beer that has undone me . O how it grieves my heart to think , That they who had my money free . Now I am poor from me they shrink , Oh how this strong beer has undone me . When I had coin enough to spend , Among good fellows who but me , Then each one strove to be my friend : Until strong beer had undone me . Now all is gone and nothing left , It is not as it was wont to be , Of all my friends I am bereft , Oh thus strong beer has undone me . For now my company thy shun , And where I come away they flee , Which makes me sing this heavy tune : Oh this strong beer that has undone more . They say this money makes a man , Experience proves it true I see , For my associates from me rane , When thus strong beer had undone me , For when I had clothes to my back , And coin to call for liquour free , I never did companions lack , Until strong beer had undone me . But now I have consumed all , And am as poor as poor may be , Here's many laugh to see my fallen , Now this strong beer has undone me . The world is grown to such a pass , That if your means consumed be , You shall be counted but and ass And thus strong beer hath undone me . The second part . To the same Tune W Hen I had coin no tapster durst , Refuse to trust me shillings three , But now thele see my money first , Because strong beer has undone me . Unto a Tapster once I came , You're welcome Sir , draw near quoth he , But now the slave won't know my name , Because strong beer has undone me . My little hosts at the crown , Would often fit upon my knee , But now sheele cry away thou clown , Because strong beer has undone me . Beside ther's Tapsters three or foure , Where I have spent my money free , Are like to thrust me out of door , And say there is no room for me . But if I could get up my means , As that I doubt will never be , I sure would fit those Knaves and Queens , But now strong beer has undone me . O is not this a hellish spite , That I should thus rejected be , Who lately lived in such delight , Before strong beer had undone me . When I do call to mind the days , Which I again shall never see , In which torments me many ways , Alas strong beer has undone me . Full many a shilling have I spent , And cried hang sorrow let it fly , In drink and smoke away it went , And thus strong beer hath undone me . Then who but I among the rout , Of Jovial Blades should welcome be , But now my poverty they flout , Because strong beer has undone me . Then would good fellows to me say , Here honest Jacke isle drink to thee , Because they knew I still would pay , Until strong beer had undone me . Now they who hung upon my purse , If I through want should starved be , Will not a groat for me disburse , Because strong beer has undone me . And if I pass by the alehouse door , My host will say , look there goes he , I knew him rich but now he's poor , And thus strong beer has undone me . All you good fellows that hear my case , Take heed lest in your own case be , I might have lived void of disgrace , Had not strong beer thus undone me . Shake of ill company in time , Which wrongeth many a man you see , Now I through them am like to pine , And this strong beer that has undone me . Farewell strong beer my mortal foe , I'll drink no more therefore of thee , A good cause why my purse is low , For thou strong beer hast undone me . F I N I S. Printed for F. Grove . 