[ The WORSER ] runkards Dial : or , [ Go ] od Sir , Your Nose is dirty . Being a merry Jest most finely convaide , Between and old Lad , and a witty young Maid . To the tune of Riding to Rumford . TO Here was a lusty Lad in London dwelling , That would a wooing go , where drink was selling : Where a Lass lustily , kept this lad company . Till the Pots quality , made his nose dirty . Tossing up Cup and Can , one after other , He could no longer then , his fancy smoother . But gave unto his Lass a draught that welcome was , How comes it ( Sir ) to pass , your nose is dirty . Quoth he , in courtesy I must be doing , Give us another Pot , of the last Brewing . Here my love , heres to thee , soft a while , sir quoth she , For me thinks now I see your nose is dirty . With that this lusty Lad , bravely gan swagger , Vowing to lay to pawn , his Dudgin dagger , Fill us full half a score of Cannes , or somewhat more , Yowl not away before your nose is dirty . Thus the Wench flouted him as he was drinking , Which he for favours took , to his own thinking . Thus away Ale and Bear , went by this couple here , And she said still , my deer , your nose is dirty . Having now drunk his fill , out he went reeling , With a wild running brain void of all feellng , With his beloved sweet by his side in the street , Where all that did them meet , saw his nose dirty . Being thus led along all did deride him , Till one among the rest , soundly did chide him , And bade him home to weened and not his time to spend For now I see , my friend your nose is dirty . How comes it now to pass , you are so mired , A pot of Ale quoth he hath my brains fired . Then said the other now I see below your brow , Although you know not how , your nose is dirty . FINIS . The second Part. to the same [ e tune ] TO Hen the Lass led him home to her own dwelling , Where is behapt a Jest well worth the telling , There with his dirty nose much he did wrong his close , And one might then suppose his nose was dirty . She brought him strong waters then , fit for his drinking , With some Tobacco , which made him so stinking . That none durst come him nigh , if you ask reason why , You know as well as I , his nose was dirty . Falling then to the ground , came his beloved , Where a plain dealing friend she her self proved . Seeing him in that place in a most drunken case , Staring him in the face , saw his nose dirty . And for acquaintance sake took him up friendly , Bearing him to a bed , neat , fine , and cleanly , And laid him down to sleep , who could not go nor creep For he had drunk so deep , his nose was dirty . Next day when he arose he looked about him , Perceiving how his Lass , finely did flout him , He asked the reason why she told him presently , Then he found by and by , his nose was dirty . Being sorry for his fault , thus he protested , That his brains never more should be molested , Thanking his loving friend , that she did succour lend , And said he would amend , his nose from durting . Parting thus soberly went he on trudging , But missed his purse , when he came to his lodging . ( Quoth he ) to deer a shot have I paid for my lot , Say my friends , have I not , with a nose dirty . All men that love good Ale , and other Liquer , Nothing in nimble brains can be more quicker : It will steal cunningly in your pates by and by , And will make shamefully , all your nose dirty , Printed at London for Phil. Byrch . FINIS . [ The WORSER ] runkards Dial : or , [ Go ] od Sir , Your Nose is dirty . Being a merry Jest most finely convaide , Between and old Lad , and a witty young Maid . To the tune of Riding to Rumford . TO Here was a lusty Lad in London dwelling , That would a wooing go , where drink was selling : Where a Lass lustily , kept this lad company . Till the Pots quality , made his nose dirty . Tossing up Cup and Can , one after other , He could no longer then , his fancy smoother . But gave unto his Lass a draught that welcome was , How comes it ( Sir ) to pass , your nose is dirty . Quoth he , in courtesy I must be doing , Give us another Pot , of the last Brewing . Here my love , heres to thee , soft a while , sir quoth she , For me thinks now I see your nose is dirty . With that this lusty Lad , bravely gan swagger , Vowing to lay to pawn , his Dudgin dagger , Fill us full half a score of Cannes , or somewhat more , Yowl not away before your nose is dirty . Thus the Wench flouted him as he was drinking , Which he for favours took , to his own thinking . Thus away Ale and Bear , went by this couple here , And she said still , my deer , your nose is dirty . Having now drunk his fill , out he went reeling , With a wild running brain void of all feellng , With his beloved sweet by his side in the street , Where all that did them meet , saw his nose dirty . Being thus led along all did deride him , Till one among the rest , soundly did chide him , And bade him home to weened and not his time to spend For now I see , my friend your nose is dirty . How comes it now to pass , you are so mired , A pot of Ale quoth he hath my brains fired . Then said the other now I see below your brow , Although you know not how , your nose is dirty . FINIS . The second Part. to the same [ e tune ] TO Hen the Lass led him home to her own dwelling , Where is behapt a Jest well worth the telling , There with his dirty nose much he did wrong his close , And one might then suppose his nose was dirty . She brought him strong waters then , fit for his drinking , With some Tobacco , which made him so stinking . That none durst come him nigh , if you ask reason why , You know as well as I , his nose was dirty . Falling then to the ground , came his beloved , Where a plain dealing friend she her self proved . Seeing him in that place in a most drunken case , Staring him in the face , saw his nose dirty . And for acquaintance sake took him up friendly , Bearing him to a bed , neat , fine , and cleanly , And laid him down to sleep , who could not go nor creep For he had drunk so deep , his nose was dirty . Next day when he arose he looked about him , Perceiving how his Lass , finely did flout him , He asked the reason why she told him presently , Then he found by and by , his nose was dirty . Being sorry for his fault , thus he protested , That his brains never more should be molested , Thanking his loving friend , that she did succour lend , And said he would amend , his nose from durting . Parting thus soberly went he on trudging , But missed his purse , when he came to his lodging . ( Quoth he ) to deer a shot have I paid for my lot , Say my friends , have I not , with a nose dirty . All men that love good Ale , and other Liquer , Nothing in nimble brains can be more quicker : It will steal cunningly in your pates by and by , And will make shamefully , all your nose dirty , Printed at London for Phil. Byrch . FINIS . 