Heres to thee kind Harry . O R The plain dealing Drunkard . To the tune of Heres to thee good Fellow . R Oome for a lusty lively Lad , dery dery down , That will show himself blithe be he never so sad , dery dery down , That cries a fig for poverty And takes all troubles patiently , Will spend what he gets , And drink more then he eats , That never means to vary From good fellowship free , If thou such a one be . I'll drink to thee kind Harry . He that will freely call for drink , dery dery down . And never repine to part with his chink , dery dery down . That will laugh and sing in the midst of care , Though sorrow force him to despair . That scorns to brawl For trifles small , but himself does quietly carry , That no worse word From his lips will afford , then heres to thee kind Harry . He that's a greedy Cormorant , dery dery down , That hardly allows his guts pravant , dery dery down . That is so loath , to part with his pelf That he will not bestow a Groat on himself . Let such a hog Lap whey like a dog , while we drink good Canary , And live in content , And blithe merriment , heres to thee honest Harry . He that is and idle Shark , dery dery down , That lives by shifts , and will not work , dery dery down . That like a rascal base and rude Into any company will intrude , That though he have money Will scant spend a penny , at home let such a one tarry , While we fit here Wee'll keep the score clear , and heres to thee kind Harry . The second part to the same tune . H Ee that is a wenching knave dery dery down That for a whore his money does save dery dery down , That like a found fantastic Ass Will spend a crown upon his Lass , And yet he's unwilling To spend a shilling with us in rich Canary , Let him pack to a wench That can teach him French , come , heres to thee honest Harry . He that is a pilfering thief , dery dery down , That steals to give his corpse relief , dery dery down . That though he can himself maintain By some honest trade , he will take no pain . I wish with my heart , That the Hangman in's cart all such to the Gallows may carry . For if all thieves were gone , Then we should keep our own , and heres to thee brave Harry . He thats a fawning Sycophant , dery dery down , And seeks with tales our ears to inchant dery dery down . Who gives me pleasant words to my face , And rails at me in another place . And says right with his tongue , When his heart means wrong , and his thoughts do poison carry , Let no such stay with us Who will flatter us thus , heres to thee true hearted Harry . He that will boast without desert , dery dery down , And seeks to applaud his strength or art , dery dery down , That will brag and vaunt to simple men , As though he were one could fight with ten Yet being tried He will only but chide , his words and his deeds do vary . But I like that blade , Who will do as he said and heres to thee brave Harry . He that professes himself a Soldier , dery dery down , Yet never boar arms on his shoulder , dery dery down . That prates of many bans he hath seen , Yet out of the Land he hath never been . He hath learned to speak Dtuch And thats as much as he desires to carry . Some say in Kent street Many Dutch you may meet , but heres to honest Harry . Thus being honest jovial blades , dery dery down , Let us be as merry as the maids , dery dery down . But such as we have named before , Them and their dealings we abhor . Now this time to depart Let us drink up this quart . and then no longer wee'll tarry Each man pay the shot , What falls to his lot . but I will pay for Harry . Printed at London for Henry Gosson on London bridge . Heres to thee kind Harry . O R The plain dealing Drunkard . To the tune of Heres to thee good Fellow . R Oome for a lusty lively Lad , dery dery down , That will show himself blithe be he never so sad , dery dery down , That cries a fig for poverty And takes all troubles patiently , Will spend what he gets , And drink more then he eats , That never means to vary From good fellowship free , If thou such a one be . I'll drink to thee kind Harry . He that will freely call for drink , dery dery down . And never repine to part with his chink , dery dery down . That will laugh and sing in the midst of care , Though sorrow force him to despair . That scorns to brawl For trifles small , but himself does quietly carry , That no worse word From his lips will afford , then heres to thee kind Harry . He that's a greedy Cormorant , dery dery down , That hardly allows his guts pravant , dery dery down . That is so loath , to part with his pelf That he will not bestow a Groat on himself . Let such a hog Lap whey like a dog , while we drink good Canary , And live in content , And blithe merriment , heres to thee honest Harry . He that is and idle Shark , dery dery down , That lives by shifts , and will not work , dery dery down . That like a rascal base and rude Into any company will intrude , That though he have money Will scant spend a penny , at home let such a one tarry , While we fit here Wee'll keep the score clear , and heres to thee kind Harry . The second part to the same tune . H Ee that is a wenching knave dery dery down That for a whore his money does save dery dery down , That like a found fantastic Ass Will spend a crown upon his Lass , And yet he's unwilling To spend a shilling with us in rich Canary , Let him pack to a wench That can teach him French , come , heres to thee honest Harry . He that is a pilfering thief , dery dery down , That steals to give his corpse relief , dery dery down . That though he can himself maintain By some honest trade , he will take no pain . I wish with my heart , That the Hangman in's cart all such to the Gallows may carry . For if all thieves were gone , Then we should keep our own , and heres to thee brave Harry . He thats a fawning Sycophant , dery dery down , And seeks with tales our ears to inchant dery dery down . Who gives me pleasant words to my face , And rails at me in another place . And says right with his tongue , When his heart means wrong , and his thoughts do poison carry , Let no such stay with us Who will flatter us thus , heres to thee true hearted Harry . He that will boast without desert , dery dery down , And seeks to applaud his strength or art , dery dery down , That will brag and vaunt to simple men , As though he were one could fight with ten Yet being tried He will only but chide , his words and his deeds do vary . But I like that blade , Who will do as he said and heres to thee brave Harry . He that professes himself a Soldier , dery dery down , Yet never boar arms on his shoulder , dery dery down . That prates of many bans he hath seen , Yet out of the Land he hath never been . He hath learned to speak Dtuch And thats as much as he desires to carry . Some say in Kent street Many Dutch you may meet , but heres to honest Harry . Thus being honest jovial blades , dery dery down , Let us be as merry as the maids , dery dery down . But such as we have named before , Them and their dealings we abhor . Now this time to depart Let us drink up this quart . and then no longer wee'll tarry Each man pay the shot , What falls to his lot . but I will pay for Harry . Printed at London for Henry Gosson on London bridge . 