It is bad Jesting with a Halter . A Merry Jest to you I'll make appear . That happened lately unto London near , Where as good-fellows were together drinking : One of them in a jeering manner thinking To escape shot-free , this fellow was in hope , His shot to pay , by jesting with a Rope : Which jesting might have proved to his pain , But he'll be advised how he jests so again . To the tune of There was a Ewe had three Lambs . TO Hree Jovial sparks together , merry they did make , The coldness of the weather , made them their liquour take : Their coin they freely spent it , and quaffed it merrily , And all as one consented merry for to be : One he for Tobacco called , another called for beer , Another called what have you not some faggots bring us here : They were three lusty soldiers , had served in France and Spaine , Germany and Italy , and were come home again , One in Wars had lost and eye , another shot quite through the thigh , the third in Turkish slavery . endured had much pain . There were no Manding soldiers , manding up and down , With knap-sakes on their shoulders that trudge from Town to Town , And by their Rooking cunning poor Ale - [ w ] ines oft worser [ e ] ceive : For meat and drink , and lodging , and do their charges save : These were no such they would keep touch , & amp ; pay their shot though never so much , To pa [ use ] the love of poor and rich , [ their ] [ favour ] [ st ] ill to have . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc Also three jovial Sailors , unto these Soldiers came , And brought with them two Tailors , but none of them I'll name : And brought with them a fellow , a Butcher and a Baker , But all this time to make them even did want the neat shoemaker : Quoth one of them I have a friend , and he dwells here fast by , A shoemaker lets for him send he is good company , They were three lusty Soldiers , etc He will sing and be merry , drink and pay his share , We wish then said his neighbours all that now we had him here : They for him sent , incontinent , he came and gave them good content , And was so full of merriment , he pleased them all were there . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc For nothing there was wanting that might give them content , They merry were , and made good cheer and liberally they spent , Still calling on the Tapster , of Beer , to bring the best : Then silent be , and list to me , for now begins the Jest , This fellow he , most Jovially , did for Tobacco call : And says my noble Jovial blades a health unto you all . They were three lusty Soldiers , had served in France , and Spaine , Germany and Italy , and were come home , etc The Second Part To the same tune . TO Hus being blithe together , unto their hearts desire Says he here is cold weather , lets have a better fire , And bring us more Tobacco , and of your Beer the best , For while I stay , my part I'll pay , and be a Jovial guest . Hang money it is but and Ass , for means I cannot lack , Then fill the other dozen in , let sorrow and care go pack . They were three lusty Soldiers and served in France and Spaine , Germany , and Italy , and were come home again , etc So calling for the Tapster , to know what was to pay , Says he I have no money , but if you please to stay , And drink the tother dozen whlst the Faggots burn , I scorn you for to cozen but presently return : And money bring : then may I sing , a Fly , a fig for care , I'll hast away , and make no stay , but come and pay my share . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc So presently returning , they all were in good hope , That he some money then had brought till pulling out a Rope , Which he had in his breeches , on terms he did not stand , But asked if anyone were there would buy a Carelesse-Band : A neat one a feat one , that was both strong and new , And never was worn , I dare be sworn , believe me it is true . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc The company then smiling for to be Jeered so , One of them to him calling , the price of it to know : Is this a Carelesse-Band says he , I must commend thy wit : Then presently , I mean to try how it thy neck will fit : The Rope then , he took then , of truth as I herd say , And with a twitch his neck did stretch until he gasping lay . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc But when he did recover , and to his senses came , Says he I must acknowledge that I was much too blame , In such a foolish manner my betters so to Jeer : That here I should have breathed my last it put me in a fear : Your gentle favours craving , and briefly to be plain , It shall to me a warning be , for Jesting so again , They were three lusty Soldiers , etc Thus all the City over , by rumour it was spread , Ever he could well recover that surely he was dead : And that for truth of certain , he like a wretched Elf , Had by some dire misfortune untimely hanged himself : This song therefore it written was , to clear all doubts of it , That all may know , it is not so , he is not dead as yet : But hope's to live , content to give , and so continue by care to thrive , Never in that peril for to come of such a hanging fit . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc By Robert Guy . FINIS . London Printed for F . C.It is bad Jesting with a Halter . A Merry Jest to you I'll make appear . That happened lately unto London near , Where as good-fellows were together drinking : One of them in a jeering manner thinking To escape shot-free , this fellow was in hope , His shot to pay , by jesting with a Rope : Which jesting might have proved to his pain , But he'll be advised how he jests so again . To the tune of There was a Ewe had three Lambs . TO Hree Jovial sparks together , merry they did make , The coldness of the weather , made them their liquour take : Their coin they freely spent it , and quaffed it merrily , And all as one consented merry for to be : One he for Tobacco called , another called for beer , Another called what have you not some faggots bring us here : They were three lusty soldiers , had served in France and Spaine , Germany and Italy , and were come home again , One in Wars had lost and eye , another shot quite through the thigh , the third in Turkish slavery . endured had much pain . There were no Manding soldiers , manding up and down , With knap-sakes on their shoulders that trudge from Town to Town , And by their Rooking cunning poor Ale - [ w ] ines oft worser [ e ] ceive : For meat and drink , and lodging , and do their charges save : These were no such they would keep touch , & amp ; pay their shot though never so much , To pa [ use ] the love of poor and rich , [ their ] [ favour ] [ st ] ill to have . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc Also three jovial Sailors , unto these Soldiers came , And brought with them two Tailors , but none of them I'll name : And brought with them a fellow , a Butcher and a Baker , But all this time to make them even did want the neat shoemaker : Quoth one of them I have a friend , and he dwells here fast by , A shoemaker lets for him send he is good company , They were three lusty Soldiers , etc He will sing and be merry , drink and pay his share , We wish then said his neighbours all that now we had him here : They for him sent , incontinent , he came and gave them good content , And was so full of merriment , he pleased them all were there . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc For nothing there was wanting that might give them content , They merry were , and made good cheer and liberally they spent , Still calling on the Tapster , of Beer , to bring the best : Then silent be , and list to me , for now begins the Jest , This fellow he , most Jovially , did for Tobacco call : And says my noble Jovial blades a health unto you all . They were three lusty Soldiers , had served in France , and Spaine , Germany and Italy , and were come home , etc The Second Part To the same tune . TO Hus being blithe together , unto their hearts desire Says he here is cold weather , lets have a better fire , And bring us more Tobacco , and of your Beer the best , For while I stay , my part I'll pay , and be a Jovial guest . Hang money it is but and Ass , for means I cannot lack , Then fill the other dozen in , let sorrow and care go pack . They were three lusty Soldiers and served in France and Spaine , Germany , and Italy , and were come home again , etc So calling for the Tapster , to know what was to pay , Says he I have no money , but if you please to stay , And drink the tother dozen whlst the Faggots burn , I scorn you for to cozen but presently return : And money bring : then may I sing , a Fly , a fig for care , I'll hast away , and make no stay , but come and pay my share . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc So presently returning , they all were in good hope , That he some money then had brought till pulling out a Rope , Which he had in his breeches , on terms he did not stand , But asked if anyone were there would buy a Carelesse-Band : A neat one a feat one , that was both strong and new , And never was worn , I dare be sworn , believe me it is true . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc The company then smiling for to be Jeered so , One of them to him calling , the price of it to know : Is this a Carelesse-Band says he , I must commend thy wit : Then presently , I mean to try how it thy neck will fit : The Rope then , he took then , of truth as I herd say , And with a twitch his neck did stretch until he gasping lay . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc But when he did recover , and to his senses came , Says he I must acknowledge that I was much too blame , In such a foolish manner my betters so to Jeer : That here I should have breathed my last it put me in a fear : Your gentle favours craving , and briefly to be plain , It shall to me a warning be , for Jesting so again , They were three lusty Soldiers , etc Thus all the City over , by rumour it was spread , Ever he could well recover that surely he was dead : And that for truth of certain , he like a wretched Elf , Had by some dire misfortune untimely hanged himself : This song therefore it written was , to clear all doubts of it , That all may know , it is not so , he is not dead as yet : But hope's to live , content to give , and so continue by care to thrive , Never in that peril for to come of such a hanging fit . They were three lusty Soldiers , etc By Robert Guy . FINIS . London Printed for F.C. 