A Mad Crew ; Or , That shall be tried . To the tune of , Pudding-Pye Doll . W Alking of late through London streets , A crew of good-fellows together meets , Not one of them sober , if not belied , Well , quoth the Maultman , that shall be tried . From thence I traveled , to see a new Play , Whereas and old Widow in gallant array , Sat pleasantly smirking , like a young Bride , Well , quoth the Fiddler , that shall be tried , Then to a Tobacco house , smoking hight Went I , and called for my Pipe and my Pot , The Weed was strong , but hardly well dryde , Well , quoth the Horse-courser , that shall be tried . The Market of Cheap , I feign would then see , Where soon a fine Cutpurse unmoneyed me , And ventured a joint , to Tybourne to ride , Well , quoth the Hangman , now that shall be tried . I afterwards went , and took up mine Inn , Where as I found out , and Aunt of my kin , Who feared no lashing , though all were espied , Well , quoth the Beadle , now that shall be tried . I met with a Gallant , that sold all his Land , And after took money up , bound by Band , Who when the day came , the payment denied , well , quod the Sergeant , now that shall be tried . I feign would then see a close Bowling Alley , Where to a fine Cheater , I paid for my folly , His slights were so nimble , they could not be spied Well , quoth Justice too-good , that shall be tried . Moore Fields being pleasant , the same I would see , where Maids of our City , still whiting clothes be , For forty weeks after , my love I there tIED . Well , quoth the Midwife , now that shall be tried . I went to Pye-Corner , to look for my Dinner , where dining with smoke , it made me look thinner , The reckoning being called for , the same I denied , well , quoth the Cook , now that shall be tried . And then in Smithfield I bought me a Nag , Where of all the foure , not half a good leg , Being tIED to the Manger , he left me his Hide , Well , quod the Bearward , now that shall be tried . A Suit of good Satin I made me as then , Where as five yards were stole out of ten , And foure of the others at last were denied . Well , quoth the Broker , now that shall be tried . I met then a Collier , that sold me good Coals , Where two , of foure Bushels , ran out at the holes , Yet more then full measure , the Collier still cried . Well , quoth the Pillory , that shall be tried . The second Part. To the same tune . G Reat store of good liquour the Thames does contain , Where of the old Maltman does greatly complain , That in the hight Kettle , the Malt will not bide . Well , quoth the Brewer , now that shall be tried . The Carrier that travels by night very late , When good Ale hath quelled the strength of his pate , Without either money , or wit , he may ride , well , quoth the Thief , now that shall be tried . A Wench of plain dealing , makes use of her own , The Beadles of Bridewell her shoulders have known , The rod of correction , she will not abide , Well , quoth Meg merry-tricks , that shall be tried . The good man , that leads a cumbersome life , Where no day he escapes the fist of his Wife : And being thus beaten , his neighbour must ride , Well , quoth the Milk-wife , now that shall be tried . The Good wife , that wastes her state unto nought , In gawdy apparel her husband hath bought , May walk like a Peacock , her hands by her side , Well , quoth the Cuckold , now that shall be tried . He that his garments will pawn for good Ale , And at his poor Wife like a Drunkard will rail , May daily go naked , without any pride , Well , quoth the Beggar , now that shall be tried . She that a house and a charge will maintain , Yet will not for laziness take any pain , May like a Sow fatten , that's filthily styde . Well , quoth the Drunkard , now that shall be tried She that by scolding still pays all her debts , To the ease of her belly , soar sick of the frets , May gallantly on the Cucking-stool ride , Well , quoth the Oyster-wench , that shall be tried . He that each morning will call for his quart At the Labour in Vain , to comfort his heart , May fear no ill favours , that Night-men abide . Well , quoth the Jakes-Farmer , that shall be tried . Now those that my Ditty will kindly regard , A Pipe of Tobacco shall have for reward , With a Cup of Old Sherry , well sugared beside , Well , quoth the Ballad-singer , that shall be tried . London printed for John Trundle . A Mad Crew ; Or , That shall be tried . To the tune of , Pudding-Pye Doll . W Alking of late through London streets , A crew of good-fellows together meets , Not one of them sober , if not belied , Well , quoth the Maultman , that shall be tried . From thence I traveled , to see a new Play , Whereas and old Widow in gallant array , Sat pleasantly smirking , like a young Bride , Well , quoth the Fiddler , that shall be tried , Then to a Tobacco house , smoking hight Went I , and called for my Pipe and my Pot , The Weed was strong , but hardly well dryde , Well , quoth the Horse-courser , that shall be tried . The Market of Cheap , I feign would then see , Where soon a fine Cutpurse unmoneyed me , And ventured a joint , to Tybourne to ride , Well , quoth the Hangman , now that shall be tried . I afterwards went , and took up mine Inn , Where as I found out , and Aunt of my kin , Who feared no lashing , though all were espied , Well , quoth the Beadle , now that shall be tried . I met with a Gallant , that sold all his Land , And after took money up , bound by Band , Who when the day came , the payment denied , well , quod the Sergeant , now that shall be tried . I feign would then see a close Bowling Alley , Where to a fine Cheater , I paid for my folly , His slights were so nimble , they could not be spied Well , quoth Justice too-good , that shall be tried . Moore Fields being pleasant , the same I would see , where Maids of our City , still whiting clothes be , For forty weeks after , my love I there tIED . Well , quoth the Midwife , now that shall be tried . I went to Pye-Corner , to look for my Dinner , where dining with smoke , it made me look thinner , The reckoning being called for , the same I denied , well , quoth the Cook , now that shall be tried . And then in Smithfield I bought me a Nag , Where of all the foure , not half a good leg , Being tIED to the Manger , he left me his Hide , Well , quod the Bearward , now that shall be tried . A Suit of good Satin I made me as then , Where as five yards were stole out of ten , And foure of the others at last were denied . Well , quoth the Broker , now that shall be tried . I met then a Collier , that sold me good Coals , Where two , of foure Bushels , ran out at the holes , Yet more then full measure , the Collier still cried . Well , quoth the Pillory , that shall be tried . The second Part. To the same tune . G Reat store of good liquour the Thames does contain , Where of the old Maltman does greatly complain , That in the hight Kettle , the Malt will not bide . Well , quoth the Brewer , now that shall be tried . The Carrier that travels by night very late , When good Ale hath quelled the strength of his pate , Without either money , or wit , he may ride , well , quoth the Thief , now that shall be tried . A Wench of plain dealing , makes use of her own , The Beadles of Bridewell her shoulders have known , The rod of correction , she will not abide , Well , quoth Meg merry-tricks , that shall be tried . The good man , that leads a cumbersome life , Where no day he escapes the fist of his Wife : And being thus beaten , his neighbour must ride , Well , quoth the Milk-wife , now that shall be tried . The Good wife , that wastes her state unto nought , In gawdy apparel her husband hath bought , May walk like a Peacock , her hands by her side , Well , quoth the Cuckold , now that shall be tried . He that his garments will pawn for good Ale , And at his poor Wife like a Drunkard will rail , May daily go naked , without any pride , Well , quoth the Beggar , now that shall be tried . She that a house and a charge will maintain , Yet will not for laziness take any pain , May like a Sow fatten , that's filthily styde . Well , quoth the Drunkard , now that shall be tried She that by scolding still pays all her debts , To the ease of her belly , soar sick of the frets , May gallantly on the Cucking-stool ride , Well , quoth the Oyster-wench , that shall be tried . He that each morning will call for his quart At the Labour in Vain , to comfort his heart , May fear no ill favours , that Night-men abide . Well , quoth the Jakes-Farmer , that shall be tried . Now those that my Ditty will kindly regard , A Pipe of Tobacco shall have for reward , With a Cup of Old Sherry , well sugared beside , Well , quoth the Ballad-singer , that shall be tried . London printed for John Trundle . 