Fowre witty Gossips disposed to be merry Refused muddy Ale , to drink a cup of Sherry . Their Husbands did their Judgements spend strong Ale was best who did intend to try it . Their Wives reply to every man that Sack is best and no man can deny it To the tune of the Mother beguiled the Daughter . TO Here was fowre pleasant wives of late , did purpose to be merry : And each for other laid in wait to drink a cup of sherry , The time was on a market day the place was at the feather , To drink and pass the time away they all consent together , we will not depart , weell drink a quart of Sack to make us merry . Your Barley broth filled up with froth , is nothing like old sherry . Each one did in her basket bring a dainty bit to relish A cup of Sack , which is a thing does man and woman cherish : Our husbands made a match last night to taste the oil of barley , But now weell show to them a sleight for going to bed so early , We will not depart , etc Now let us call our liquour in , and bravely we will drink it , In good old sack we will begin , a health while now we think it : we mean unto those drowsy sots , that love the oil of Barley : And all last night did toss the pots , until the morning early , we will not depart etc But little does our husbands think , if that they be awaking , That in good sack their healths to drink what pains that we are taking : And she that pledges drink it up to them that sleepeth soundly : Let every woman have her cup , of sack and drink it roundly , we will not depart , weel drink a quart , etc So let the health go round about , this day weell take our pleasure : Our husbands were last night all out , and weell go home by leisure ? For sack and sugar let us join , you see it is cold weather ? And blithely let us spend our coin , we seldom meet together , we will not depart etc Our husbands home did make small haste , all night until the morning : But if we had not all been chaste , they well might fear the horning : But why do they this Ale commend , which being thick is loathsome ? But rather should their money spend in sack so pure and wholesome , we will not depart etc Which being clear , does clear the blood , and make old women merry : And sure their judgements are not good that discommends old sherry , If our opinions do not fail ? a quart twelve cups containeth , Its cheaper then adozen of ale , where froth and snuffs remains : we will not depart etc The second part . To the same tune . TO Heigh are but Clowns and do not know , the quintessence of Sherry , Their judgements can no further go , then Ale , or Bear , or Perry : These homebred gulls cannot define from whence this wine proceedeth , Nor what is meant by Grapes or Wine their ignorance exceeds . we will not depart etc Such idle malt worms do devour , more corn in oil of barley , Then we in Sack and ten times more though we drink late and early : Our husbands have no wit to drink good Wine , nor how to use it ? But swill it up like bear they think or ale and so abuse it , we will not depart etc Thus the day was almost spent in merriment and laughing : Their husbands to the Tavern sent yet could not find them quaffing , The younger wives did weep for fear their husbands would abuse them : Quoth mother Joane be of good cheer and said she would excuse them . we will not depart etc This old wife was somewhat stout and so also was Bridget ? They sweet [ e ] are two cups should go about and every one should pledge it : This good old wench begun the round to many that was weeping Yet Mall did stoutly stand her ground , and drunk to Nel a sleeping , we will not depart , etc Nel pledged the round almost awake the Sack she much commended : Which unto Bridget she did take , and so the health was ended : Then to the Drawer they did call : to know what was the score , Twelve shillings quoth he there is in all beside a quart before : we will not depart etc Old Jane began the shot to take , each one lay down their store , And just ten shillings they did make , and not one farding more : Here take your money said old Jane we have no more about us : Gives one quart more , weell come again you need not for to doubt us , we will not depart etc Here is my girdle for a pawn and Mall leave you your Bodkin , And Bridget leave your piece of Lawen , weell pay him to a dodkin , And Nell her silver Thimble too , because weell go together , To try what our good men will do till we meet at the feather , Thus will we depart , with this last quart , etc But men do think they are all wit , yet some do prove but noddies , That drinking ale all night do fit , like wash-tubs makes their bodies : When they may drink Sack pure and strong as cheap as oil of barley : And so we do conclude this song , this morning very early , we will not depart weell drink a quart , of Sack which makes us merry , Your Barley broth filled up with froth , is nothing like your Sherry . FINIS . London Printed for H. G . Fowre witty Gossips disposed to be merry Refused muddy Ale , to drink a cup of Sherry . Their Husbands did their Judgements spend strong Ale was best who did intend to try it . Their Wives reply to every man that Sack is best and no man can deny it To the tune of the Mother beguiled the Daughter . TO Here was fowre pleasant wives of late , did purpose to be merry : And each for other laid in wait to drink a cup of sherry , The time was on a market day the place was at the feather , To drink and pass the time away they all consent together , we will not depart , weell drink a quart of Sack to make us merry . Your Barley broth filled up with froth , is nothing like old sherry . Each one did in her basket bring a dainty bit to relish A cup of Sack , which is a thing does man and woman cherish : Our husbands made a match last night to taste the oil of barley , But now weell show to them a sleight for going to bed so early , We will not depart , etc Now let us call our liquour in , and bravely we will drink it , In good old sack we will begin , a health while now we think it : we mean unto those drowsy sots , that love the oil of Barley : And all last night did toss the pots , until the morning early , we will not depart etc But little does our husbands think , if that they be awaking , That in good sack their healths to drink what pains that we are taking : And she that pledges drink it up to them that sleepeth soundly : Let every woman have her cup , of sack and drink it roundly , we will not depart , weel drink a quart , etc So let the health go round about , this day weell take our pleasure : Our husbands were last night all out , and weell go home by leisure ? For sack and sugar let us join , you see it is cold weather ? And blithely let us spend our coin , we seldom meet together , we will not depart etc Our husbands home did make small haste , all night until the morning : But if we had not all been chaste , they well might fear the horning : But why do they this Ale commend , which being thick is loathsome ? But rather should their money spend in sack so pure and wholesome , we will not depart etc Which being clear , does clear the blood , and make old women merry : And sure their judgements are not good that discommends old sherry , If our opinions do not fail ? a quart twelve cups containeth , Its cheaper then adozen of ale , where froth and snuffs remains : we will not depart etc The second part . To the same tune . TO Heigh are but Clowns and do not know , the quintessence of Sherry , Their judgements can no further go , then Ale , or Bear , or Perry : These homebred gulls cannot define from whence this wine proceedeth , Nor what is meant by Grapes or Wine their ignorance exceeds . we will not depart etc Such idle malt worms do devour , more corn in oil of barley , Then we in Sack and ten times more though we drink late and early : Our husbands have no wit to drink good Wine , nor how to use it ? But swill it up like bear they think or ale and so abuse it , we will not depart etc Thus the day was almost spent in merriment and laughing : Their husbands to the Tavern sent yet could not find them quaffing , The younger wives did weep for fear their husbands would abuse them : Quoth mother Joane be of good cheer and said she would excuse them . we will not depart etc This old wife was somewhat stout and so also was Bridget ? They sweet [ e ] are two cups should go about and every one should pledge it : This good old wench begun the round to many that was weeping Yet Mall did stoutly stand her ground , and drunk to Nel a sleeping , we will not depart , etc Nel pledged the round almost awake the Sack she much commended : Which unto Bridget she did take , and so the health was ended : Then to the Drawer they did call : to know what was the score , Twelve shillings quoth he there is in all beside a quart before : we will not depart etc Old Jane began the shot to take , each one lay down their store , And just ten shillings they did make , and not one farding more : Here take your money said old Jane we have no more about us : Gives one quart more , weell come again you need not for to doubt us , we will not depart etc Here is my girdle for a pawn and Mall leave you your Bodkin , And Bridget leave your piece of Lawen , weell pay him to a dodkin , And Nell her silver Thimble too , because weell go together , To try what our good men will do till we meet at the feather , Thus will we depart , with this last quart , etc But men do think they are all wit , yet some do prove but noddies , That drinking ale all night do fit , like wash-tubs makes their bodies : When they may drink Sack pure and strong as cheap as oil of barley : And so we do conclude this song , this morning very early , we will not depart weell drink a quart , of Sack which makes us merry , Your Barley broth filled up with froth , is nothing like your Sherry . FINIS . London Printed for H. G. 