The famous Ratketcher , with his travels into France , and of his return to London . To the tune of the jovial Tinker . TO Here was a rare Ratcatcher , Did about the Country wander , The soundest blade of all his trade , Or I should him deeply slander : For still would he cry , a Rat tat tat , tara rat , ever : To catch a Mouse , or to carouse . such a Ratter I saw never . Upon a Poale he carried Full fourty fulsome Vermin : Whose cursed lives without any Knives , To take he did determine . And still would he cry , a Rat tat tat , tara Rat , ever , etc His talk was all of India , The Voyage and the Navy : What Mice or Rats , or wild Polecats : What Stoates or Weesels have ye : And still would he cry , a Rat , etc He knew the Nut of India , That makes the Magpie stagger : The Mercuries , and Cantharies , With Arsnicke , and Roseaker . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc Full often with a Negro , The Juice of Poppies drunk he : Eat Poison frank with a Mountebanke , And Spiders with a Monkey . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc In London he was well known : In many a stately House He lays a Bait ; whose deadly fate , Did kill both Rat and Mouse . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc But on a time , a Damosel , did him so far entice , That for her , a Bait he laid straight , would kill no Rats nor Mice . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc And on the Bait she nibbled , so pleasing in her taste , She licked so long , that the Poison strong , did make her swell i'th waste . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc H [ e ] ebtilely this perceiving , to the Country straight does high him : Where by his skill , he poisoneth still , such Vermin as come nigh him . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc He never careth whither he be sober , lame , or tipsy : He can Collogue with any Rogue , and Cant with any Gipsie . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc He was so brave a bowzer , that it was doubtful whither He taught the Rats , or the Rats taught him to be drunk as Rats , together . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc When he had trip this Island , from Bristow unto Dover , With painful Bag and painted Flag , to France he sailed over . Yet still would he cry , a Rat tat tat , tara rat , ever , etc FINIS . The Ratketchers return out of France to London . To the same tune . I N France when he arrived , the heat so much perplexed him , That all his Pouch did swell so much , and Poison so had vexed him . That scarce could he cry , a Rat tat tat , tara Rat , ever : To catch a Mouse , or to carouse , Such a Ratter I saw never . At last , as Witches common , must use another's aiding : So did this Ratter , tell the matter to another of's own trading . And then did he cry , a Rat tat tat . etc Who using many Simples , to quench his fiery burning : Did make him dance clean out of France , And home he's now returning . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc At Dover he arrived , and Kent hath had his cunning : The Maidens Laps like poisoned Rats repent his back-home coming . For still does he cry , a Rat , etc At Gravesend amongst the Maidens , Green sickness reigned so briefly , None could have cure , but such as sure would take his Potions chiefly . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc The Ship wherein he sailed , ere he on shore arrived , Reports him that he killed a Rat , that never will be revived . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc And to the Fair in Smithfield , he now is gone and paced : To search with Pole for the Rat-knawne hold that him so much outfaced . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc Now to the Tippling houses , to kill the Vermin featly : French Rats and Mice all in a trice , he will destroy full neatly . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc And ugly Wench to see-to , whose Nose was knawne with Vermin , The Rat to kill , that used her ill , to use him does determine . And still does he cry , a Rat . etc If any other Maidens , or Female kinds , will use him , Come call him quick , for with a trick he's gone , if you refuse him . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc To Sturbridge Fair his journey is plotted , and appointed : Approach with speed , you that have need with Poison to be anointed . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc When back he comes homeward , observe his Flag bepainted With Mice and Rats , and with Polecats , if you will be acquainted , And hear him to cry , a Rat tat tat , tara Rat , ever : To catch a Mouse , or to carouse , such a Ratter I saw never . FINIS . Imprinted at London for John Trundle , and are to be sold at the sign of the Nobody in Barbican . The famous Ratketcher , with his travels into France , and of his return to London . To the tune of the jovial Tinker . TO Here was a rare Ratcatcher , Did about the Country wander , The soundest blade of all his trade , Or I should him deeply slander : For still would he cry , a Rat tat tat , tara rat , ever : To catch a Mouse , or to carouse . such a Ratter I saw never . Upon a Poale he carried Full fourty fulsome Vermin : Whose cursed lives without any Knives , To take he did determine . And still would he cry , a Rat tat tat , tara Rat , ever , etc His talk was all of India , The Voyage and the Navy : What Mice or Rats , or wild Polecats : What Stoates or Weesels have ye : And still would he cry , a Rat , etc He knew the Nut of India , That makes the Magpie stagger : The Mercuries , and Cantharies , With Arsnicke , and Roseaker . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc Full often with a Negro , The Juice of Poppies drunk he : Eat Poison frank with a Mountebanke , And Spiders with a Monkey . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc In London he was well known : In many a stately House He lays a Bait ; whose deadly fate , Did kill both Rat and Mouse . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc But on a time , a Damosel , did him so far entice , That for her , a Bait he laid straight , would kill no Rats nor Mice . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc And on the Bait she nibbled , so pleasing in her taste , She licked so long , that the Poison strong , did make her swell i'th waste . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc H [ e ] ebtilely this perceiving , to the Country straight does high him : Where by his skill , he poisoneth still , such Vermin as come nigh him . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc He never careth whither he be sober , lame , or tipsy : He can Collogue with any Rogue , and Cant with any Gipsie . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc He was so brave a bowzer , that it was doubtful whither He taught the Rats , or the Rats taught him to be drunk as Rats , together . And still would he cry , a Rat , etc When he had trip this Island , from Bristow unto Dover , With painful Bag and painted Flag , to France he sailed over . Yet still would he cry , a Rat tat tat , tara rat , ever , etc FINIS . The Ratketchers return out of France to London . To the same tune . I N France when he arrived , the heat so much perplexed him , That all his Pouch did swell so much , and Poison so had vexed him . That scarce could he cry , a Rat tat tat , tara Rat , ever : To catch a Mouse , or to carouse , Such a Ratter I saw never . At last , as Witches common , must use another's aiding : So did this Ratter , tell the matter to another of's own trading . And then did he cry , a Rat tat tat . etc Who using many Simples , to quench his fiery burning : Did make him dance clean out of France , And home he's now returning . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc At Dover he arrived , and Kent hath had his cunning : The Maidens Laps like poisoned Rats repent his back-home coming . For still does he cry , a Rat , etc At Gravesend amongst the Maidens , Green sickness reigned so briefly , None could have cure , but such as sure would take his Potions chiefly . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc The Ship wherein he sailed , ere he on shore arrived , Reports him that he killed a Rat , that never will be revived . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc And to the Fair in Smithfield , he now is gone and paced : To search with Pole for the Rat-knawne hold that him so much outfaced . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc Now to the Tippling houses , to kill the Vermin featly : French Rats and Mice all in a trice , he will destroy full neatly . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc And ugly Wench to see-to , whose Nose was knawne with Vermin , The Rat to kill , that used her ill , to use him does determine . And still does he cry , a Rat . etc If any other Maidens , or Female kinds , will use him , Come call him quick , for with a trick he's gone , if you refuse him . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc To Sturbridge Fair his journey is plotted , and appointed : Approach with speed , you that have need with Poison to be anointed . And still does he cry , a Rat , etc When back he comes homeward , observe his Flag bepainted With Mice and Rats , and with Polecats , if you will be acquainted , And hear him to cry , a Rat tat tat , tara Rat , ever : To catch a Mouse , or to carouse , such a Ratter I saw never . FINIS . Imprinted at London for John Trundle , and are to be sold at the sign of the Nobody in Barbican . 