A man cannot loose his money , but he shall be mocked too , OR , Subtle Mals love to a simple Coney , To make him and Ass to spend his money . To the Tune of O no , no , no , not yet . A Proper handsome young man , that dwelled in London City , Did woo a pretty Damsel , who was for him too witty : The youngman he had wealth good store , the Lass was poor , though bonny , She pleased his mind , with speeches kind , and all was for his money . A simple silly Coxcomb , he showed himself to be : All which the crafty Damsel , did well perceive and see ; She pleased still his humour well , with words as sweet as honey , She showed him still , most kind good will , to make him spend his money . He was with love enchanted , and led into such folly , He never would be merry , but with his pretty Molly . To whom when he was come , she still would welcome say , sweet honey : Which words in mind , he took so kind , he cared not for his money . She colled him , she clipped him , she did his corpses embrace : And said her only pleasure , was viewing his sweet face . She told him that his breath and lips , more sweeter were then honey , Yet her mind ran , not on the man , so much , as on his money . And at their merry meetings , the youth would send for wine , And many pleasant Junkets , for them to sup and dine : As Lambe , and Veil , and Mutton store , with Chickens , Larks , and Coney . Thus with her wiles , and tempting smiles , she made him spend his money . He gave her Gowns and Kirtles , and many costly things , As Girdles , Gloves , and Stockings , fine Bracelets , and gold Rings . For which he never had nought from her , but Thanks mine own sweet honey , A kiss or twaine was all his gain , for all his cost and money . And if he ere did offer , to do the thing you wot , When they two were in private , to him she yielded not . She told him 'twas unlawful , I prithee sweet and honey , Urge me not too't , for I'll not dooed , intreth for any money . Now what should be the reason think you , she was so coy ? It was because another man her fancy did enjoy , And none but he alone , she swore , should have this Wench so bonney , Yet this found Ass , so simple was , to fool away his money The second part . To the same tune . A Lthough she had another , whom she had vowed to marry , Yet to this silly woodcock , her self she still did carry , As though she had intent at last , to make him her sweet honey , Yet all her drift , was by this shift , to get good clothes and money . And when she was supplied , with all that she did lack , And he had put brave raiment , all new upon her back , Him carelessly she slighted then , her heart to him was stony , She grew so proud , she scarce alow'd a smile for all his money . So getting up one morning , she could no longer tarry , But sending for her other Love , with him she straight did marry . Now had she what she looked for , and so farewell my Tommy , My wedding Ring , and every thing though boughtest me with thy money . Thus in deriding manner , at him she laughed and fleered , Which vexed soar the Youngman , when to his shame he herd , How he was for his kindness shown , accounted simple Tommy , And had disgrace , in every place , for spending of his money . He durst not walk for's pleasure , among other youngmen , But he was sure to hear oned , before he came again . And one would play with tother in sport , with words as sweet as honey , To act the part of his sweet heart , who made him spend his money . This did so vex and grieve him , he vowed to be revenged , Quoth he , my Gown and Kirtle , ere long I'll have new fringed , Take heed , you subtle Quean , quoth he , for if I light upon ye , I'll make you rue , that ere you knew one penny of my money . These words the Damsel herd on , and being always cunning , She spied him as he walked i'th street , and to him she came running . She called him Rogue and Rascal base , you slave quoth she , I'll stone ye ; And you Clown , I'll crack your crown , a pox of you and your money . Thus with her scolding speeches , his voice she overcame , He seeing of no remedy , did let it rest for shame . Let every honest youngman then , example take by Tommy , Lest they repent , when they have spent , upon a Wench their money . Finis . M.P. Printed for Francis Grove , dwelling on Snow-hill . A man cannot loose his money , but he shall be mocked too , OR , Subtle Mals love to a simple Coney , To make him and Ass to spend his money . To the Tune of O no , no , no , not yet . A Proper handsome young man , that dwelled in London City , Did woo a pretty Damsel , who was for him too witty : The youngman he had wealth good store , the Lass was poor , though bonny , She pleased his mind , with speeches kind , and all was for his money . A simple silly Coxcomb , he showed himself to be : All which the crafty Damsel , did well perceive and see ; She pleased still his humour well , with words as sweet as honey , She showed him still , most kind good will , to make him spend his money . He was with love enchanted , and led into such folly , He never would be merry , but with his pretty Molly . To whom when he was come , she still would welcome say , sweet honey : Which words in mind , he took so kind , he cared not for his money . She colled him , she clipped him , she did his corpses embrace : And said her only pleasure , was viewing his sweet face . She told him that his breath and lips , more sweeter were then honey , Yet her mind ran , not on the man , so much , as on his money . And at their merry meetings , the youth would send for wine , And many pleasant Junkets , for them to sup and dine : As Lambe , and Veil , and Mutton store , with Chickens , Larks , and Coney . Thus with her wiles , and tempting smiles , she made him spend his money . He gave her Gowns and Kirtles , and many costly things , As Girdles , Gloves , and Stockings , fine Bracelets , and gold Rings . For which he never had nought from her , but Thanks mine own sweet honey , A kiss or twaine was all his gain , for all his cost and money . And if he ere did offer , to do the thing you wot , When they two were in private , to him she yielded not . She told him 'twas unlawful , I prithee sweet and honey , Urge me not too't , for I'll not dooed , intreth for any money . Now what should be the reason think you , she was so coy ? It was because another man her fancy did enjoy , And none but he alone , she swore , should have this Wench so bonney , Yet this found Ass , so simple was , to fool away his money The second part . To the same tune . A Lthough she had another , whom she had vowed to marry , Yet to this silly woodcock , her self she still did carry , As though she had intent at last , to make him her sweet honey , Yet all her drift , was by this shift , to get good clothes and money . And when she was supplied , with all that she did lack , And he had put brave raiment , all new upon her back , Him carelessly she slighted then , her heart to him was stony , She grew so proud , she scarce alow'd a smile for all his money . So getting up one morning , she could no longer tarry , But sending for her other Love , with him she straight did marry . Now had she what she looked for , and so farewell my Tommy , My wedding Ring , and every thing though boughtest me with thy money . Thus in deriding manner , at him she laughed and fleered , Which vexed soar the Youngman , when to his shame he herd , How he was for his kindness shown , accounted simple Tommy , And had disgrace , in every place , for spending of his money . He durst not walk for's pleasure , among other youngmen , But he was sure to hear oned , before he came again . And one would play with tother in sport , with words as sweet as honey , To act the part of his sweet heart , who made him spend his money . This did so vex and grieve him , he vowed to be revenged , Quoth he , my Gown and Kirtle , ere long I'll have new fringed , Take heed , you subtle Quean , quoth he , for if I light upon ye , I'll make you rue , that ere you knew one penny of my money . These words the Damsel herd on , and being always cunning , She spied him as he walked i'th street , and to him she came running . She called him Rogue and Rascal base , you slave quoth she , I'll stone ye ; And you Clown , I'll crack your crown , a pox of you and your money . Thus with her scolding speeches , his voice she overcame , He seeing of no remedy , did let it rest for shame . Let every honest youngman then , example take by Tommy , Lest they repent , when they have spent , upon a Wench their money . Finis . M.P. Printed for Francis Grove , dwelling on Snow-hill . 