A Whetstone for Liars . A Song of strange wonders , believe them , if you will , As true as some Stories that Travellers tell . To the Tune of With a Trick that I have . F Rom Barwicke to Dover , Ten thousand times over , I truly have traveled ten times in a day : From the top of Pauls Steeple , In the sighed of all people , To throw my self headlong I hold but a toy . From the top of Westminster , To the midst of Cheap , I skipped over the houses at one standing Leap : Fpom thence unto Greenewitch , In the sighed of many , I bounced over the Barges , yet never touched any . From off Richmond Castle , Nine miles into Scotland , I'll run in a morning at one breathing course : I'll march in a minute From Norway to Gothland , And never be beholding to the help of a Horse : I'll dine at Duke Humphreyes To day at high noon , And the next night at supper I'll meet you at Room : I'll travel the World , To what place you can name , And never cross River till I come at the same . I'll walk upon Thames , As well as on dry Land , Without being carried in Barge , Ship , or Boat : I'll go at a high Tide Betwixt London and Gravesend , As swift as a Wherry I finely can float : And then without danger I'll pass Yarmouth sand , And bravely and safely at Plimouth I'll Land : I'll go on a Message Unto the great Turke , Ith' morn ; and at night I'll be here hard at work . The second part . To the same tune . A LL naked in Winter , I'll swim hence to Green-land , To Russia , Polony ; to Denmarke or Freeze , And oft in a humour To Holland that fine Land , I run , and come back , yet no man me sees . I have on a sudden Swom over to Spaine , At midnight , and here in the morning again . All this have I done , As for truth may appear , And more then all this , as you after shall hear . I likewise have studied The learned vocation , To see how the Stars and the Planets do move : I know in a minute What's done in all Nations , And for seven years after , what even still shall prove . If French , Turke or Spaniard Against us conspire , I'll burn their whole Armies with balls of wildfire : The shot of a Cannon I hold but a toy : I killed thirty thousand when I was but a Boy . The victuals that would Gargantua sustain The space of a year , I do hold but a bit : For bring me ten thousands Of Wains strongly laden , And I in a day will devour every whit . Of Hogsheads the biggest That's in any house , I'll drink off twice twenty at a morning's carouse ; And blow thorough my nostrils Such a blusterous gale , It'll make thirty thousand tall Ships for to sail . Although I have traveled Through sword and through fire , And passed such adventures as never did none , Of all sorts of people , I hate a base Liar , That talks of adventures , yet never saw none : If you meet with a Fellow That will prate , brag and lie , Tell him of my Travels , he'll cease by and by . Thus , wishing true Soldiers True Honours increase , A Fig for base Liars , and so I will cease . Finis . Printed for Francis Grove , dwelling on Snow-hill . A Whetstone for Liars . A Song of strange wonders , believe them , if you will , As true as some Stories that Travellers tell . To the Tune of With a Trick that I have . F Rom Barwicke to Dover , Ten thousand times over , I truly have traveled ten times in a day : From the top of Pauls Steeple , In the sighed of all people , To throw my self headlong I hold but a toy . From the top of Westminster , To the midst of Cheap , I skipped over the houses at one standing Leap : Fpom thence unto Greenewitch , In the sighed of many , I bounced over the Barges , yet never touched any . From off Richmond Castle , Nine miles into Scotland , I'll run in a morning at one breathing course : I'll march in a minute From Norway to Gothland , And never be beholding to the help of a Horse : I'll dine at Duke Humphreyes To day at high noon , And the next night at supper I'll meet you at Room : I'll travel the World , To what place you can name , And never cross River till I come at the same . I'll walk upon Thames , As well as on dry Land , Without being carried in Barge , Ship , or Boat : I'll go at a high Tide Betwixt London and Gravesend , As swift as a Wherry I finely can float : And then without danger I'll pass Yarmouth sand , And bravely and safely at Plimouth I'll Land : I'll go on a Message Unto the great Turke , Ith' morn ; and at night I'll be here hard at work . The second part . To the same tune . A LL naked in Winter , I'll swim hence to Green-land , To Russia , Polony ; to Denmarke or Freeze , And oft in a humour To Holland that fine Land , I run , and come back , yet no man me sees . I have on a sudden Swom over to Spaine , At midnight , and here in the morning again . All this have I done , As for truth may appear , And more then all this , as you after shall hear . I likewise have studied The learned vocation , To see how the Stars and the Planets do move : I know in a minute What's done in all Nations , And for seven years after , what even still shall prove . If French , Turke or Spaniard Against us conspire , I'll burn their whole Armies with balls of wildfire : The shot of a Cannon I hold but a toy : I killed thirty thousand when I was but a Boy . The victuals that would Gargantua sustain The space of a year , I do hold but a bit : For bring me ten thousands Of Wains strongly laden , And I in a day will devour every whit . Of Hogsheads the biggest That's in any house , I'll drink off twice twenty at a morning's carouse ; And blow thorough my nostrils Such a blusterous gale , It'll make thirty thousand tall Ships for to sail . Although I have traveled Through sword and through fire , And passed such adventures as never did none , Of all sorts of people , I hate a base Liar , That talks of adventures , yet never saw none : If you meet with a Fellow That will prate , brag and lie , Tell him of my Travels , he'll cease by and by . Thus , wishing true Soldiers True Honours increase , A Fig for base Liars , and so I will cease . Finis . Printed for Francis Grove , dwelling on Snow-hill . 