A Caveat or Warning . For all sorts of Men both young and old , to avoid the Company of lewd and wicked Women . To the tune of Virginia . I Once did love a bonny Lass , As Oxford Town does know , But now I see all is not gold , that makes a glistering show . The fairest apple to the eye , May have a rotten core : And young men all now by my my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . Shee'l stroke your cheeks shee'l stroke your chin , Shee'le fling her arms about you , And shee'le protest with vows and oaths , She cannot live without you : Shee'le sighs and sob if that you say , Yowl come to her no more : And Gallants all by this my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . Shee'le buy you bandstrings at the Fair , Sheele cause you for to woe her : Sheele make you bracelets of her hair , for to bewitch you to her , Sheele fit upon you all the night , Sheele give you kisses store : But Gallants all by this my fallen , take heed , trust not a whore . If thou shouldst be in heaven ( quoth she ) I would not live in hell : If thou shouldst be on earth quoth she , in heaven I would not dwell : If thou shouldst be on sea ( quoth she ) I would not be on shore : Then Gallants all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . If that you chance for to be sad , Sheele bid you send for wine : For that is good sweet heart quoth she , for thy choice heart and mine : And thus with sweet and smiling words , Sheele dive into your store : But Gallants all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . When she hath had her whole desire , And all your quoin is spent , If you entreat her company , sheele say she shall be shent : Then will she leave you to your self , Your fortune's to deplore : Then Gallants all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . The Second Part. To the same tuue . S Heel fit alone with you and swear , By God that did her make , While breath within her body is , she will not you forsake : Shee'le let you toy , and stroke and kiss , Shee'le let you do much more : But youngmen all , now by my fallen , take heed trust not a Whore . Now here I-lye , my friends do fly , My wench does quite forswear me , Her father's house is but hard by , and yet she comes not near me me : In prison I for her do lie , Close by her father's door : And young men all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a Whore : My Creditors they chase at me , For my time spent so bad , And scarce I see no friend I have , is for my grief now sad : And those that loved in former times , They now do me abhor : Then youngmen all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . My kinsfolks they do send to me , And oft on me do rail , Now am I plagued in misery , here lying in the Jail : But if that I come out again , Though I be never so poor : I never more will give consent , to meddle with a whore . You young men that in London live , Take heed by this my fallen : For if you still will follow whores , they will devour you all : Your quoin , your states , your health and friends , Then turn you out of door : O Young men all by this my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . Now farewell all you Prentices , That do in London dwell , Leave all those vices , which will bring one day your souls to hell : So with my heart prayer for you , I now will say no more : But wish you all both great and small , take heed love not a whore . FINIS . Imprinted at London for H . G.A Caveat or Warning . For all sorts of Men both young and old , to avoid the Company of lewd and wicked Women . To the tune of Virginia . I Once did love a bonny Lass , As Oxford Town does know , But now I see all is not gold , that makes a glistering show . The fairest apple to the eye , May have a rotten core : And young men all now by my my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . Shee'l stroke your cheeks shee'l stroke your chin , Shee'le fling her arms about you , And shee'le protest with vows and oaths , She cannot live without you : Shee'le sighs and sob if that you say , Yowl come to her no more : And Gallants all by this my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . Shee'le buy you bandstrings at the Fair , Sheele cause you for to woe her : Sheele make you bracelets of her hair , for to bewitch you to her , Sheele fit upon you all the night , Sheele give you kisses store : But Gallants all by this my fallen , take heed , trust not a whore . If thou shouldst be in heaven ( quoth she ) I would not live in hell : If thou shouldst be on earth quoth she , in heaven I would not dwell : If thou shouldst be on sea ( quoth she ) I would not be on shore : Then Gallants all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . If that you chance for to be sad , Sheele bid you send for wine : For that is good sweet heart quoth she , for thy choice heart and mine : And thus with sweet and smiling words , Sheele dive into your store : But Gallants all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . When she hath had her whole desire , And all your quoin is spent , If you entreat her company , sheele say she shall be shent : Then will she leave you to your self , Your fortune's to deplore : Then Gallants all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . The Second Part. To the same tuue . S Heel fit alone with you and swear , By God that did her make , While breath within her body is , she will not you forsake : Shee'le let you toy , and stroke and kiss , Shee'le let you do much more : But youngmen all , now by my fallen , take heed trust not a Whore . Now here I-lye , my friends do fly , My wench does quite forswear me , Her father's house is but hard by , and yet she comes not near me me : In prison I for her do lie , Close by her father's door : And young men all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a Whore : My Creditors they chase at me , For my time spent so bad , And scarce I see no friend I have , is for my grief now sad : And those that loved in former times , They now do me abhor : Then youngmen all now by my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . My kinsfolks they do send to me , And oft on me do rail , Now am I plagued in misery , here lying in the Jail : But if that I come out again , Though I be never so poor : I never more will give consent , to meddle with a whore . You young men that in London live , Take heed by this my fallen : For if you still will follow whores , they will devour you all : Your quoin , your states , your health and friends , Then turn you out of door : O Young men all by this my fallen , take heed trust not a whore . Now farewell all you Prentices , That do in London dwell , Leave all those vices , which will bring one day your souls to hell : So with my heart prayer for you , I now will say no more : But wish you all both great and small , take heed love not a whore . FINIS . Imprinted at London for H.G. 