Master Base his Career , OR The new Hunting of the Hare . To a new Court tune . L Ong ere the Morn expects the return of Apollo from the Ocean Queen : Before the creak of the Croe or the break of the day in the Welkin is seen , Mounted Idelia cheerfully makes to the Chase with his Bugle clear : And nimbly bounds to the cry of the Hounds and the Music of his Career . Oft does he trace , through Wood , Park and Chase , when he mounts his Steed aloft : Oft he does run beyond far his home , and deceives his pillow soft : Oft he expects , yet still hath defects , for still he is crossed by the Hare : But more often he bounds to the cry of his Hounds , and does thunder out his Career . Hercules Hunted and spoiled the game , wheresoever he made his sport : Adon did Hunt but was slain by the same , through Junoes bad consort : Nepthaly to , did the Heart over go , and he purged the Forests there , When his horn did redound , the noise to the hound , he did thunder out his Career . Now bonny Bay with his foam wareth Grey , deep Grey waxes Bay with blood : White Lily tops , does send for their Caps , black Lady makes it good : Sorrowful Watte , her widows estate , forgets these delights to hear , And nimbly bounds to the cry of the Hound , and does thunder out his Career . Hills with the heat of the Gallopers sweat , Revives their freezing tops : Dales purple flowers , the spring from the showers , which down from the Rowels drops : Swains they repast , and Strangers they hast , no neglect when our Horns they hear : To see a fleet pack of Hounds in a sheet , and the Hunter in his Career . Thus he Careers over the Moors , or the meeres , over deeps , over Downs and Clay : Till he hath won , the day from the Sun , and the evening from the day , Sports then he ends , and joyfully wends home to his Cottage , where Frankly he feasts both himself and his Guests , and carowseth to his Career . FINIS . The Faulconers Hunting . To the tune of Base his Career . E Arely in the morn , when the night's overworn , and Apollo with his golden beams : The Daystar overtakes , and Cinthia forsakes , to frolic with his silver streams . We with our delights , and the Haggard in our flights , that afronts the Celestial Sphere : With lures and with trains , we gallop over the plains , to behold a Cancecleere . From the fist she goes , and her nimbly throws , to outfly the whistling wind : Onward still amain , over bush over plain , till her Gelding gen faintly she finds : And upshot then she makes , till the clouds she overtakes , her ambition rests not there : But mounting still she flies , like a Phoenix in the skies , and comes down with a Cancecleere . Mounting in the Sky , to the shape of a Fly , like a spark of Elemental fire : Upward then she tends to make good her place amends , till the Retriese gives her desire : No Swallow , nor dove , their clipping wings can move like her when i'the Clouds they appear : She comes down from above , like the thunderbolt of Jove , and does stop with a Cancecleere . Both young and old prepare , to the sport that is so rare from their weary labour coming for to see : Lifting up their eyes from the Plains to the Skies , where the wonders of the Welkins be : The Spirits of the Air in huddles do repair , the Music of the Bells for to hear , And quickly fly apart affrighted at the heart , when she stoops to the Cancecleere . The Mallard with complaints in her golden feathers faints while the Haggard with the coy disdain : Triumphant in her prey , concludes the Evening grey with a pleasant and a lovely gain : Homeward then we weened , & amp ; the twilight then we spend in discourse our delights to hear : We taste the Quail we killed , and carouse in what is fill [ worser ] which goes round with a Cancecleere . FINIS . Printed at London by E. A . Master Base his Career , OR The new Hunting of the Hare . To a new Court tune . L Ong ere the Morn expects the return of Apollo from the Ocean Queen : Before the creak of the Croe or the break of the day in the Welkin is seen , Mounted Idelia cheerfully makes to the Chase with his Bugle clear : And nimbly bounds to the cry of the Hounds and the Music of his Career . Oft does he trace , through Wood , Park and Chase , when he mounts his Steed aloft : Oft he does run beyond far his home , and deceives his pillow soft : Oft he expects , yet still hath defects , for still he is crossed by the Hare : But more often he bounds to the cry of his Hounds , and does thunder out his Career . Hercules Hunted and spoiled the game , wheresoever he made his sport : Adon did Hunt but was slain by the same , through Junoes bad consort : Nepthaly to , did the Heart over go , and he purged the Forests there , When his horn did redound , the noise to the hound , he did thunder out his Career . Now bonny Bay with his foam wareth Grey , deep Grey waxes Bay with blood : White Lily tops , does send for their Caps , black Lady makes it good : Sorrowful Watte , her widows estate , forgets these delights to hear , And nimbly bounds to the cry of the Hound , and does thunder out his Career . Hills with the heat of the Gallopers sweat , Revives their freezing tops : Dales purple flowers , the spring from the showers , which down from the Rowels drops : Swains they repast , and Strangers they hast , no neglect when our Horns they hear : To see a fleet pack of Hounds in a sheet , and the Hunter in his Career . Thus he Careers over the Moors , or the meeres , over deeps , over Downs and Clay : Till he hath won , the day from the Sun , and the evening from the day , Sports then he ends , and joyfully wends home to his Cottage , where Frankly he feasts both himself and his Guests , and carowseth to his Career . FINIS . The Faulconers Hunting . To the tune of Base his Career . E Arely in the morn , when the night's overworn , and Apollo with his golden beams : The Daystar overtakes , and Cinthia forsakes , to frolic with his silver streams . We with our delights , and the Haggard in our flights , that afronts the Celestial Sphere : With lures and with trains , we gallop over the plains , to behold a Cancecleere . From the fist she goes , and her nimbly throws , to outfly the whistling wind : Onward still amain , over bush over plain , till her Gelding gen faintly she finds : And upshot then she makes , till the clouds she overtakes , her ambition rests not there : But mounting still she flies , like a Phoenix in the skies , and comes down with a Cancecleere . Mounting in the Sky , to the shape of a Fly , like a spark of Elemental fire : Upward then she tends to make good her place amends , till the Retriese gives her desire : No Swallow , nor dove , their clipping wings can move like her when i'the Clouds they appear : She comes down from above , like the thunderbolt of Jove , and does stop with a Cancecleere . Both young and old prepare , to the sport that is so rare from their weary labour coming for to see : Lifting up their eyes from the Plains to the Skies , where the wonders of the Welkins be : The Spirits of the Air in huddles do repair , the Music of the Bells for to hear , And quickly fly apart affrighted at the heart , when she stoops to the Cancecleere . The Mallard with complaints in her golden feathers faints while the Haggard with the coy disdain : Triumphant in her prey , concludes the Evening grey with a pleasant and a lovely gain : Homeward then we weened , & amp ; the twilight then we spend in discourse our delights to hear : We taste the Quail we killed , and carouse in what is fill [ worser ] which goes round with a Cancecleere . FINIS . Printed at London by E. A. 