To him Bun , take him Bun : Or , The hunting of the Conney . To the tune of , To him Bun , etc G Reat Mars and Venus , upon a time meeting , In Cupids shady Bowers , after some greeting : Many words passed then , but their chief argument Was how that Summer's day , should be in pleasure spent : He said Wars , Brawls and Jars , these she denied , Milder sport fits each sort , thus she replied . [ L ] et your Hound range some ground , and swiftly follow him , [ H ] unt the Bun take the Bun , but do not swallow him . If than Apollo pleased , Mars was contented , They shook hands and agreed , so both consented : Phaebus beams warms the streams , where Nymphs do both them , Boras plays with their locks , and gently waves them ; The gods did give consent , mortals should sport and play , In a most decent sort , keeping it Holiday . Let your Hound range some ground , and switly follow him , Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , and do not swallow him . Flora with Flowers sweet , spread all the Mountains , Valles were fresh and green , swift ran the Fountains : Phylomel sweetly sung , to entertain the Spring , On each branch sits a Bird , making the Groves to ring : Pan pipeth on his Reed , while that his Lambs do play , Every thing seems to spring , welcoming pleasant May . Let your Hound range some ground , and switly follow him , Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , but do not swallow him . Foorth went the Country Youths , every one leading His nimblest footed Dog , over the Lawns treading : Through each bush do they rush , and open way does make , A Hunter's path is free , be it through Brake or Lake , Over Hill over Dale , with shout and hallow , Whilst that their nimble Hounds , poor Bun does follow . Let your Hound range some ground , and swiftly follow him , Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , and do not swallow him . The second part , to the same tune . Q Uoth one the match is made , now the no flinching , I'll not give out for nought , Hang up all pinching : Since w'are within the Chase , weel have about Lad , Encourage up thy Dog , why dost thou pout Lad , Fair play I'll see thee have , fly Bunny faint not , Pretty Bun nimbly run , and see thou plaint not . Let your Hound range some ground and swiftly follow him : Hunt the bun take the bun , but do not swallow him . Nimbly she leaps and skips , over Hill and Valley , Holes she takes , creeps through brakes , seeming to dally : Cries of Hounds makes the grounds , echo like Thunder : Making each silly beast mazed with wonder : Take the Earth , let not death so soon over take thee , For if he catch thee Bun , he'll soundly shake thee . Let your Hound range some ground , and swiftly follow him : Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , and do not swallow him . For all the shift she made , quickly they caught her , And full low on the ground , suddenly brought her : She did sqeeke , they did sheerke , thus they used Bunny , Hard hearted Hounds to use , so a poor Conny : Hunter's came in apace , to see the slaughter , And each one did rejoice , that they had caught her . Let your Hound range some ground , and swiftly follow him : Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , and do not swallow him . This being done , then the Sun Westward declined , And palefaced Cynthya , in the East shined : Every man with a Leash , up his Dog tied , And when their sport was done , homeward they hied : So farewell . yet a Knell , I'll ring for Bunny . Which was a harmless beast , poor pretty Conney . Ding dung ding thus I ring , poor Bun is buried , That with so many Dogs , was at once wearied . Finis . Printed at London by A. M . To him Bun , take him Bun : Or , The hunting of the Conney . To the tune of , To him Bun , etc G Reat Mars and Venus , upon a time meeting , In Cupids shady Bowers , after some greeting : Many words passed then , but their chief argument Was how that Summer's day , should be in pleasure spent : He said Wars , Brawls and Jars , these she denied , Milder sport fits each sort , thus she replied . [ L ] et your Hound range some ground , and swiftly follow him , [ H ] unt the Bun take the Bun , but do not swallow him . If than Apollo pleased , Mars was contented , They shook hands and agreed , so both consented : Phaebus beams warms the streams , where Nymphs do both them , Boras plays with their locks , and gently waves them ; The gods did give consent , mortals should sport and play , In a most decent sort , keeping it Holiday . Let your Hound range some ground , and switly follow him , Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , and do not swallow him . Flora with Flowers sweet , spread all the Mountains , Valles were fresh and green , swift ran the Fountains : Phylomel sweetly sung , to entertain the Spring , On each branch sits a Bird , making the Groves to ring : Pan pipeth on his Reed , while that his Lambs do play , Every thing seems to spring , welcoming pleasant May . Let your Hound range some ground , and switly follow him , Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , but do not swallow him . Foorth went the Country Youths , every one leading His nimblest footed Dog , over the Lawns treading : Through each bush do they rush , and open way does make , A Hunter's path is free , be it through Brake or Lake , Over Hill over Dale , with shout and hallow , Whilst that their nimble Hounds , poor Bun does follow . Let your Hound range some ground , and swiftly follow him , Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , and do not swallow him . The second part , to the same tune . Q Uoth one the match is made , now the no flinching , I'll not give out for nought , Hang up all pinching : Since w'are within the Chase , weel have about Lad , Encourage up thy Dog , why dost thou pout Lad , Fair play I'll see thee have , fly Bunny faint not , Pretty Bun nimbly run , and see thou plaint not . Let your Hound range some ground and swiftly follow him : Hunt the bun take the bun , but do not swallow him . Nimbly she leaps and skips , over Hill and Valley , Holes she takes , creeps through brakes , seeming to dally : Cries of Hounds makes the grounds , echo like Thunder : Making each silly beast mazed with wonder : Take the Earth , let not death so soon over take thee , For if he catch thee Bun , he'll soundly shake thee . Let your Hound range some ground , and swiftly follow him : Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , and do not swallow him . For all the shift she made , quickly they caught her , And full low on the ground , suddenly brought her : She did sqeeke , they did sheerke , thus they used Bunny , Hard hearted Hounds to use , so a poor Conny : Hunter's came in apace , to see the slaughter , And each one did rejoice , that they had caught her . Let your Hound range some ground , and swiftly follow him : Hunt the Bun , take the Bun , and do not swallow him . This being done , then the Sun Westward declined , And palefaced Cynthya , in the East shined : Every man with a Leash , up his Dog tied , And when their sport was done , homeward they hied : So farewell . yet a Knell , I'll ring for Bunny . Which was a harmless beast , poor pretty Conney . Ding dung ding thus I ring , poor Bun is buried , That with so many Dogs , was at once wearied . Finis . Printed at London by A. M. 