A Pleasant New Ballad to Sing Evening and Morn , Of the Bloody Murder of Sir John Barley-Corn . The Tune is , Shall I Lie beyond Thee . A S I went through the North Country , I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two Noblemen were greeting . And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day , They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His name was Sir John B arley-Corn , he dwelled down in a Vale , And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they called him Thomas good-Ale . The one nam Sir Richard B eer , was ready at that time , And likewise came a busy Peer , called Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black-Jack , some of them in a Can . But yet the chiefest in a black pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir B arley-Corn fought in a Bowl , who wone the Victory , Which made them all to chafe and swear , that B arley-Corn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown , some wished to hang him high , For those that followed Barleycorn they said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Plowed him up , and thus they did devise , To bury him within the Earth , and swore he would not rise . With Harrows strong they came to him , and burst Clods on his head , A joyful Banquet then was made , when Barley-Corn was dead . He rested still upon the earth , till rain from Sky did fallen , Then he grew upon branches green , which soar amazed them all . Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afraid , For he sprang up on high , and had a goodly Beard . When ripening at St. James tide , his countenance wax [ worser ] won , You [ tO ] now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a man . Wherefore with Hooks and Sickles keen , unto the Fields they hied , They cut his Legs off by the Knees , and Limb from Limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand , And like a Thief for Treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And placed him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a pitchfork sharp and long , they rend him to the heart , And Traitor like for Treason vild , they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with weapons strong , unto the Town they high , Whereas they Mowed him in a Mow , and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls , till all his Bones were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on the Floor . And hired two with Holly Clubs , to beatrice at him at once , Who thwacked so hard on Barley-Corn , the Flesh fell from his Bones , Then after took him up again , to please some women's mind , Yea , dusted , fan , and sifted him , till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , which grieved him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a Fat , for three days space and more . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on the Chamber Floor , and swore that he should die . They rubbed and stirred him up and down and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death , his body should be sure . They pulled and haled him up in spite , and threw him on a Kill , Yea dried him over a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the Mill they forc [ e ] worser him straight , whereas they bruised his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of Stone [ s ] . The last time when they took him up , they served him worse then that , For with hight scalding Liquour store , they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot , they wrought him so mu [ changed ] harm , With cruel threat they pro [ m ] ised next , to beatrice him into Barm . And lying in this danger-deep , for fear that he should Quarrel , They headed him straight out of the fat , and turned into the Barrel . They gored and broached i [ tO ] with a Tap , so thus his death begun , And drew out every drop of Blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their backs , some brought in Bowls and Pail , Yea , every man some weapon had , poor Barley-Corn to Kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their Tongues away , their Legs , and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , so paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the walls , some tumbling in the mire . Some lay groaning by the walls , some fell i'th street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew what he had done over night . All you good wives that brew good ale , God keep you all from teen , But if you put too much water in , the Devil put out your Eyes . FINIS . A Pleasant New Ballad to look upon , How Malt deals with every man . M R. Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never in my life knew any man , could match with master Malt Sir . I never knew any man match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding stones , He pulled his flesh from off his bones , you never saw the like Sir . Malt Malt thou art a Flower , Beloved right well in every bower Thou canst not be missing one half hour , you never , etc For laying the stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a Copper nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee I'll stick Sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his Horse he fell full low , He taught him his Master Malt to know , you never , etc Our Hostis Maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her Belly hid the same , you never , etc That when the Malt did work in her head , Twice in a day she would be sped , At night she could not get to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet Sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said that M ault he was a Thief , But Malt gave him such a dash i'th teeth , you never , etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed , for he was very sick Sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice Sir . To the fire he went well warmed with chips , Malt hit him right betwixt the Lips , And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice with his sharp S panish Knife S ir . But Malt came peeping through the Hall , And did his Brains so fiercely maul , He turned round and caught a fallen , you never , etc . The Weaver sitting in the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And make him to repulse the room , or throw him in a Dike Sir . Whereat a Court some Weavers kept , And to their Hostis boldly stepped , Till charged with double pots they slept , you never , etc The Tinker took the Weavers part , Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits was very ripe Sir . For Malt the upper hand so god , He knew not how to pay the shot , But part without the reckoning pot , and found his Stomach sick Sir . The Taylor came to grind his shears , And shows to malt what spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by'th ears , and soar each other struck Sir . And when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed the Board instead of a Coat , And sailed home in a Featherbed boat , you never , etc The Tinker walking round the pan , But malt much feared his beer-mouth & amp ; can , Though he had conquered many a man , and laid him in the Dike Sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With malt to have a bout or twain , Till he again was shot i that brain , you never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at malt till his Legs were gone , you never , etc The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bid the boy go tap the Can , I'll have a bout with malt anon , you never , etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they played at hoop and catch , Till malt bestowed him under a hatch , you never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his throat was dry , And at Master malt did fly , and furiously him struck Sir . Till having laid at malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face , And he was found in such a case , you never , etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The bricklayer came he his part did take , They bound him to the good-ale stake you never , etc Then malt began to tell his mind , And plied them well with beer and wine , They left the brick-axe , trowel behind , they could not lay a brick S [ i ] r . Then A Pleasant New Ballad to Sing Evening and Morn , Of the Bloody Murder of Sir John Barley-Corn . The Tune is , Shall I Lie beyond Thee . A S I went through the North Country , I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two Noblemen were greeting . And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day , They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His name was Sir John B arley-Corn , he dwelled down in a Vale , And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they called him Thomas good-Ale . The one nam Sir Richard B eer , was ready at that time , And likewise came a busy Peer , called Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black-Jack , some of them in a Can . But yet the chiefest in a black pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir B arley-Corn fought in a Bowl , who wone the Victory , Which made them all to chafe and swear , that B arley-Corn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown , some wished to hang him high , For those that followed Barleycorn they said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Plowed him up , and thus they did devise , To bury him within the Earth , and swore he would not rise . With Harrows strong they came to him , and burst Clods on his head , A joyful Banquet then was made , when Barley-Corn was dead . He rested still upon the earth , till rain from Sky did fallen , Then he grew upon branches green , which soar amazed them all . Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afraid , For he sprang up on high , and had a goodly Beard . When ripening at St. James tide , his countenance wax [ worser ] won , You [ tO ] now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a man . Wherefore with Hooks and Sickles keen , unto the Fields they hied , They cut his Legs off by the Knees , and Limb from Limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand , And like a Thief for Treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And placed him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a pitchfork sharp and long , they rend him to the heart , And Traitor like for Treason vild , they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with weapons strong , unto the Town they high , Whereas they Mowed him in a Mow , and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls , till all his Bones were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on the Floor . And hired two with Holly Clubs , to beatrice at him at once , Who thwacked so hard on Barley-Corn , the Flesh fell from his Bones , Then after took him up again , to please some women's mind , Yea , dusted , fan , and sifted him , till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , which grieved him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a Fat , for three days space and more . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on the Chamber Floor , and swore that he should die . They rubbed and stirred him up and down and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death , his body should be sure . They pulled and haled him up in spite , and threw him on a Kill , Yea dried him over a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the Mill they forc [ e ] worser him straight , whereas they bruised his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of Stone [ s ] . The last time when they took him up , they served him worse then that , For with hight scalding Liquour store , they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot , they wrought him so mu [ changed ] harm , With cruel threat they pro [ m ] ised next , to beatrice him into Barm . And lying in this danger-deep , for fear that he should Quarrel , They headed him straight out of the fat , and turned into the Barrel . They gored and broached i [ tO ] with a Tap , so thus his death begun , And drew out every drop of Blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their backs , some brought in Bowls and Pail , Yea , every man some weapon had , poor Barley-Corn to Kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their Tongues away , their Legs , and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , so paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the walls , some tumbling in the mire . Some lay groaning by the walls , some fell i'th street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew what he had done over night . All you good wives that brew good ale , God keep you all from teen , But if you put too much water in , the Devil put out your Eyes . FINIS . A Pleasant New Ballad to look upon , How Malt deals with every man . M R. Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never in my life knew any man , could match with master Malt Sir . I never knew any man match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding stones , He pulled his flesh from off his bones , you never saw the like Sir . Malt Malt thou art a Flower , Beloved right well in every bower Thou canst not be missing one half hour , you never , etc For laying the stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a Copper nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee I'll stick Sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his Horse he fell full low , He taught him his Master Malt to know , you never , etc Our Hostis Maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her Belly hid the same , you never , etc That when the Malt did work in her head , Twice in a day she would be sped , At night she could not get to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet Sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said that M ault he was a Thief , But Malt gave him such a dash i'th teeth , you never , etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed , for he was very sick Sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice Sir . To the fire he went well warmed with chips , Malt hit him right betwixt the Lips , And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice with his sharp S panish Knife S ir . But Malt came peeping through the Hall , And did his Brains so fiercely maul , He turned round and caught a fallen , you never , etc . The Weaver sitting in the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And make him to repulse the room , or throw him in a Dike Sir . Whereat a Court some Weavers kept , And to their Hostis boldly stepped , Till charged with double pots they slept , you never , etc The Tinker took the Weavers part , Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits was very ripe Sir . For Malt the upper hand so god , He knew not how to pay the shot , But part without the reckoning pot , and found his Stomach sick Sir . The Taylor came to grind his shears , And shows to malt what spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by'th ears , and soar each other struck Sir . And when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed the Board instead of a Coat , And sailed home in a Featherbed boat , you never , etc The Tinker walking round the pan , But malt much feared his beer-mouth & amp ; can , Though he had conquered many a man , and laid him in the Dike Sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With malt to have a bout or twain , Till he again was shot i that brain , you never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at malt till his Legs were gone , you never , etc The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bid the boy go tap the Can , I'll have a bout with malt anon , you never , etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they played at hoop and catch , Till malt bestowed him under a hatch , you never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his throat was dry , And at Master malt did fly , and furiously him struck Sir . Till having laid at malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face , And he was found in such a case , you never , etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The bricklayer came he his part did take , They bound him to the good-ale stake you never , etc Then malt began to tell his mind , And plied them well with beer and wine , They left the brick-axe , trowel behind , they could not lay a brick S [ i ] r . Then came the Labourer in his hood , and saw his two Master's how they stood , He took Master malt by the hood , and swore he would him strike Sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But malt made him into the mortar to leap , and there he fell asleep Sir . The Glover came to buy a Skin , M ault hit him right above the Chin , Then Pewter John came tumbling in , you never , etc And laid on heads and arms , and joints , Took away Gloves and a gross of points , And swore they pay him in quarts and pints , you never , etc Thus of my Song i'll make and end , And pray my host to be my friend To give me some drink or money to spend for Malt and I am quiet Sir . Printed for , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . came the Labourer in his hood , and saw his two Master's how they stood , He took Master malt by the hood , and swore he would him strike Sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But malt made him into the mortar to leap , and there he fell asleep Sir . The Glover came to buy a Skin , M ault hit him right above the Chin , Then Pewter John came tumbling in , you never , etc And laid on heads and arms , and joints , Took away Gloves and a gross of points , And swore they pay him in quarts and pints , you never , etc Thus of my Song i'll make and end , And pray my host to be my friend To give me some drink or money to spend for Malt and I am quiet Sir . Printed for , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Pleasant New Ballad to Sing Evening and Morn , Of the Bloody Murder of Sir John Barley-Corn . The Tune is , Shall I Lie beyond Thee . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two Noblemen were greeting . And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day , They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His name was Sir John Barley-Corn , he dwelled down in a Vale , And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they call'd him Thomas good-Ale . The one nam Sir Richard Beer , was ready at that time , And likewise came a busy Peer , call'd Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black-Jack , some of them in a Can . But yet the chiefest in a black pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir Barley-Corn fought in a Bowl , who wone the Victory , Which made them all to chafe and swear , that Barley-Corn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown , some wished to hang him high , For those that followed Barleycorn they said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Plow'd him up , and thus they did devise , To bury him within the Earth , and swore he would not rise . With Harrows strong they came to him , and burst Clods on his head , A joyful Banquet then was made , when Barley-Corn was dead . He rested still upon the earth , till rain from Sky did fallen , Then he grew upon branches green , which soar amaz'd them all . Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afraid , For he sprang up on high , and had a goodly Beard . When ripening at St. James tide , his countenance wax [ worser ] won , You [ tO ] now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a man . Wherefore with Hooks and Sickles keen , unto the Fields they hy'd , They cut his Legs off by the Knees , and Limb from Limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand , And like a Thief for Treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac'd him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a pitchfork sharp and long , they rend him to the heart , And Traitor like for Treason vild , they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with weapons strong , unto the Town they high , Whereas they Mow'd him in a Mow , and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls , till all his Bones were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on the Floor . And hired two with Holly Clubs , to beatrice at him at once , Who thwacked so hard on Barley-Corn , the Flesh fell from his Bones , Then after took him up again , to please some women's mind , Yea , dusted , fan'd , and sifted him , till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a Fat , for three days space and more . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on the Chamber Floor , and swore that he should die . They rub'd and stir'd him up and down and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death , his body should be sure . They pul'd and hal'd him up in spite , and threw him on a Kill , Yea dry'd him o're a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the Mill they forc [ e ] worser him straight , whereas they bruis'd his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of Stone [ s ] . The last time when they took him up , they serv'd him worse then that , For with hight scalding Liquour store , they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot , they wrought him so mu [ changed ] harm , With cruel threat they pro [ m ] ised next , to beatrice him into Barm . And lying in this danger-deep , for fear that he should Quarrel , They head'd him straight out of the fat , and turn'd into the Barrel . They goar'd and broach'd i [ tO ] with a Tap , so thus his death begun , And drew out every drop of Blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their backs , some brought in Bowls and Pail , Yea , every man some weapon had , poor Barley-Corn to Kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their Tongues away , their Legs , and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , so paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the walls , some tumbling in the mire . Some lay groaning by the walls , some fell i'th street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew what he had done o're night . All you good wives that brew good ale , God keep you all from teen , But if you put too much water in , the Devil put out your Eyes . FINIS . A Pleasant New Ballad to look upon , How Malt deals with every man . MR. Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never in my life knew any man , could match with master Malt Sir . I never knew any man match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding stones , He pull'd his flesh from off his bones , you never saw the like Sir . Malt Malt thou art a Flower , Beloved right well in every bower Thou canst not be missing one half hour , you never , etc For laying the stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a Copper nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee I'le stick Sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his Horse he fell full low , He taught him his Master Malt to know , you never , etc Our Hostis Maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her Belly hid the same , you never , etc That when the Malt did work in her head , Twice in a day she would be sped , At night she could not get to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet Sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said that Malt he was a Thief , But Malt gave him such a dash i'th teeth , you never , etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed , for he was very sick Sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice Sir . To the fire he went well warm'd with chips , Malt hit him right betwixt the Lips , And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice with his sharp Spanish Knife Sir . But Malt came peeping through the Hall , And did his Brains so fiercely maul , He turned round and caught a fallen , you never , etc The Weaver sitting in the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And make him to repulse the room , or throw him in a Dike Sir . Whereat a Court some Weavers kept , And to their Hostis boldly stepped , Till charg'd with double pots they slept , you never , etc The Tinker took the Weavers part , Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits was very ripe Sir . For Malt the upper hand so god , He knew not how to pay the shot , But part without the reckoning pot , and found his Stomach sick Sir . The Taylor came to grind his shears , And shows to malt what spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by'th ears , and soar each other struck Sir . And when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed the Board instead of a Coat , And sailed home in a Featherbed boat , you never , etc The Tinker walking round the pan , But malt much feared his beer-mouth & can , Though he had conquer'd many a man , and laid him in the Dike Sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With malt to have a bout or twain , Till he again was shot i that brain , you never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at malt till his Legs were gone , you never , etc The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bid the boy go tap the Can , I'le have a bout with malt anon , you never , etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they played at hoop and catch , Till malt bestow'd him under a hatch , you never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his throat was dry , And at Master malt did fly , and furiously him struck Sir . Till having laid at malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face , And he was found in such a case , you never , etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The bricklayer came he his part did take , They bound him to the good-ale stake you never , etc Then malt began to tell his mind , And ply'd them well with beer and wine , They left the brick-axe , trowel behind , they could not lay a brick S [ i ] r . Then came the Labourer in his ho A Pleasant New Ballad to Sing Evening and Morn , Of the Bloody Murder of Sir John Barley-Corn . The Tune is , Shall I Lie beyond Thee . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two Noblemen were greeting . And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day , They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His name was Sir John Barley-Corn , he dwelled down in a Vale , And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they call'd him Thomas good-Ale . The one nam Sir Richard Beer , was ready at that time , And likewise came a busy Peer , call'd Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black-Jack , some of them in a Can . But yet the chiefest in a black pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir Barley-Corn fought in a Bowl , who wone the Victory , Which made them all to chafe and swear , that Barley-Corn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown , some wished to hang him high , For those that followed Barleycorn they said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Plow'd him up , and thus they did devise , To bury him within the Earth , and swore he would not rise . With Harrows strong they came to him , and burst Clods on his head , A joyful Banquet then was made , when Barley-Corn was dead . He rested still upon the earth , till rain from Sky did fallen , Then he grew upon branches green , which soar amaz'd them all . Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afraid , For he sprang up on high , and had a goodly Beard . When ripening at St. James tide , his countenance wax [ worser ] won , You [ tO ] now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a man . Wherefore with Hooks and Sickles keen , unto the Fields they hy'd , They cut his Legs off by the Knees , and Limb from Limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand , And like a Thief for Treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac'd him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a pitchfork sharp and long , they rend him to the heart , And Traitor like for Treason vild , they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with weapons strong , unto the Town they high , Whereas they Mow'd him in a Mow , and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls , till all his Bones were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on the Floor . And hired two with Holly Clubs , to beatrice at him at once , Who thwacked so hard on Barley-Corn , the Flesh fell from his Bones , Then after took him up again , to please some women's mind , Yea , dusted , fan'd , and sifted him , till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a Fat , for three days space and more . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on the Chamber Floor , and swore that he should die . They rub'd and stir'd him up and down and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death , his body should be sure . They pul'd and hal'd him up in spite , and threw him on a Kill , Yea dry'd him o're a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the Mill they forc [ e ] worser him straight , whereas they bruis'd his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of Stone [ s ] . The last time when they took him up , they serv'd him worse then that , For with hight scalding Liquour store , they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot , they wrought him so mu [ changed ] harm , With cruel threat they pro [ m ] ised next , to beatrice him into Barm . And lying in this danger-deep , for fear that he should Quarrel , They head'd him straight out of the fat , and turn'd into the Barrel . They goar'd and broach'd i [ tO ] with a Tap , so thus his death begun , And drew out every drop of Blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their backs , some brought in Bowls and Pail , Yea , every man some weapon had , poor Barley-Corn to Kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their Tongues away , their Legs , and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , so paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the walls , some tumbling in the mire . Some lay groaning by the walls , some fell i'th street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew what he had done o're night . All you good wives that brew good ale , God keep you all from teen , But if you put too much water in , the Devil put out your Eyes . FINIS . A Pleasant New Ballad to look upon , How Malt deals with every man . MR. Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never in my life knew any man , could match with master Malt Sir . I never knew any man match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding stones , He pull'd his flesh from off his bones , you never saw the like Sir . Malt Malt thou art a Flower , Beloved right well in every bower Thou canst not be missing one half hour , you never , etc For laying the stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a Copper nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee I'le stick Sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his Horse he fell full low , He taught him his Master Malt to know , you never , etc Our Hostis Maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her Belly hid the same , you never , etc That when the Malt did work in her head , Twice in a day she would be sped , At night she could not get to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet Sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said that Malt he was a Thief , But Malt gave him such a dash i'th teeth , you never , etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed , for he was very sick Sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice Sir . To the fire he went well warm'd with chips , Malt hit him right betwixt the Lips , And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice with his sharp Spanish Knife Sir . But Malt came peeping through the Hall , And did his Brains so fiercely maul , He turned round and caught a fallen , you never , etc The Weaver sitting in the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And make him to repulse the room , or throw him in a Dike Sir . Whereat a Court some Weavers kept , And to their Hostis boldly stepped , Till charg'd with double pots they slept , you never , etc The Tinker took the Weavers part , Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits was very ripe Sir . For Malt the upper hand so god , He knew not how to pay the shot , But part without the reckoning pot , and found his Stomach sick Sir . The Taylor came to grind his shears , And shows to malt what spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by'th ears , and soar each other struck Sir . And when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed the Board instead of a Coat , And sailed home in a Featherbed boat , you never , etc The Tinker walking round the pan , But malt much feared his beer-mouth & can , Though he had conquer'd many a man , and laid him in the Dike Sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With malt to have a bout or twain , Till he again was shot i that brain , you never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at malt till his Legs were gone , you never , etc The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bid the boy go tap the Can , I'le have a bout with malt anon , you never , etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they played at hoop and catch , Till malt bestow'd him under a hatch , you never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his throat was dry , And at Master malt did fly , and furiously him struck Sir . Till having laid at malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face , And he was found in such a case , you never , etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The bricklayer came he his part did take , They bound him to the good-ale stake you never , etc Then malt began to tell his mind , And ply'd them well with beer and wine , They left the brick-axe , trowel behind , they could not lay a brick S [ i ] r . Then came the Labourer in his hood , and saw his two Master's how they stood , He took Master malt by the hood , and swore he would him strike Sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But malt made him into the mortar to leap , and there he fell asleep Sir . The Glover came to buy a Skin , Malt hit him right above the Chin , Then Pewter John came tumbling in , you never , etc And laid on heads and arms , and joints , Took away Gloves and a gross of points , And swore they'd pay him in quarts and pints , you never , etc Thus of my Song i'le make and end , And pray my host to be my friend To give me some drink or money to spend for Malt and I am quiet Sir . Printed for , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . odd , and saw his two Master's how they stood , He took Master malt by the hood , and swore he would him strike Sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But malt made him into the mortar to leap , and there he fell asleep Sir . The Glover came to buy a Skin , Malt hit him right above the Chin , Then Pewter John came tumbling in , you never , etc And laid on heads and arms , and joints , Took away Gloves and a gross of points , And swore they'd pay him in quarts and pints , you never , etc Thus of my Song i'le make and end , And pray my host to be my friend To give me some drink or money to spend for Malt and I am quiet Sir . Printed for , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 