[ ? ] constance of Cleveland . Or , A very excellent Sonnet of the most fair Lady Constance of Cleveland , and her disloyal Knight . To the Tune of , Crimson Velvet . I TO was a youthful Knight , loved a gallant Lady , Fair she was and bright , and of virtues rare , Her self she did behave so courteously as may be , Wedded they were brave , joy without compare ; Here began the grief , Pain without relief , her husband soon her love forsook , To women lewd of mind , Being bad inclined , he only lent a pleasant look : The Lady she sat weeping , While that he was keeping company with others more , Her words my love believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . His fair Ladies Words nothing he regarded , Wantonness affords such delightful sport . While they dance and sing , with great mirth prepared , She her hands did wring in most grievous sort . O what hap had I , Thus to wail and cry ! unrespected every day , Living in disdain , While that others gain all the right I should enjoy . I am left forsaken , Others they are taken , ah my love why dost thou so ? Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . The Knight with his fair piece , at length the Lady spied , Who did him daily fleece of his wealth and store . Secretly she stood while she her fashions tried , With a patient mind while deep the strumpet swore . O sir Knight , quoth she , So dearly I love thee , my life does rest at thy dispose . By day and eke by night For thy sweet delight , thou shalt me in thy arms enclose . I am thine for ever , Still I will persever true to thee where ere I go . Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . The virtuous Lady mild , enters then among them , Being big with child , as ever she might be , With distilling tears she looked then upon them , Filled full of fears thus replied she ; Ah my Love and dear , Wherefore stay you here , refusing me your loving Wife , For and Harlots sake , Which each one will take , whose vile deeds provoke much strife Many can accuse her , Oh my love refuse her , with thy Lady homeward go , Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . All in a fury then the angry Knight up started , Very furious when he herd his Ladies speech , With many bitter terms his Wife he ever thwarted , Using hard extremes , while she did him beseech , From her neck so white , He took away in spite , her curious chain of purest gold , Her jewels and her rings , And all such costly things , as he about her did behold . The Harlot in her presence , He did gentle reverence , and to her he gave them all . He sent away his Lady , Full of woe as may be , who in a swoon with grief did fallen , A TO the Ladies wrong , the Harlot fleered and laughed , Enticements are so strong , they overcome the wise ; The Knight nothing regarded , to see the Lady scoffed , Thus was she regarded for her enterprise . The Harlot all this space , Did him oft embrace , she flatters him and thus does say , For thee i'll die and live , For thee my faith i'll give , no woe shall work my loves decay ; Thou shalt be my treasure , Thou shalt be my pleasure , thou shalt be my hearts delight , I will be thy darling , I will be thy Worldling , in despite of fortune's spite . Thus he did remain , in wasteful great expenses , Till it bred his pain , and consumed him quite : When his Lands were spent , troubled in his senses , Then did he repent of his late lewd Life , For relief he hies , For relief he flies , to them on whom he spent his Gold , They do him deny , They do him defy , they will not once his face behold . Being thus distressed , Being thus oppressed , in the fields that night he lay , Which the Harlot knowing , Through her malice growing , sought to take his life away . A young and proper Lad , they had slave in secret , For the Gold he had , whom they did convey , By a Ruffian lude to that place directly Where the youthful Knight fast asleeping lay . The bloody Dagger than Where with they killed the Man , hard by the Knight he likewise laid Sprinkling him with blood , As he thought it good , and then no longer there he stayed , The Knight being so abused , Was forthwith accused for this murder which was done , And he was condemned , That had not offended , shameful death he might not shun , When the Lady bright , understood the matter , That her wedded Knight , was condemned to die : To the King she went , with all the speed that might be , Where she did lament , her hard destiny : Noble King ( quoth she ) Pity take on me , and pardon my poor husbands life , Else I am undone , With my little Son , let mercy mitigate this grief : Lady fair content thee , Soon thou wouldst repent thee , if he should be saved so ; Soar he hath abused thee , Soar he hath misused thee , therefore Lady let him go . O my Liege , quoth she , grant your gracious Dear he is to me , though he did me wrong , The King replied again , with a stern behaviour , A Subject he hath slave , die he shall ever long , Except thou canst find , Any one so kind , that will die and set him free , Noble King she said , Glad am I paid , that same person will I be . I will suffer duly , I will suffer truly , for my love and husbands sake , The King thereat amazed , Though he her beauty praised , he had from thence they should her take It was the Kings command on the morrow after , She should out of hand to the Scaffold go : Her Husband was to bear the Sword before her , He must eke alas give the deadly blow ; He refused the deed , She bid him proceed , with a thosand kisses sweet , In this woeful case , They did both embrace , which moved the Ruffions in that place Straight for to discover , This concealed murder , whereby the Lady saved was , The Harlot then was hanged , As she well deserved this did virtue bring to pass . P rinted for F . Coles , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J . Clarke . [ ? ] constance of Cleveland . Or , A very excellent Sonnet of the most fair Lady Constance of Cleveland , and her disloyal Knight . To the Tune of , Crimson Velvet . I TO was a youthful Knight , loved a gallant Lady , Fair she was and bright , and of virtues rare , Her self she did behave so courteously as may be , Wedded they were brave , joy without compare ; Here began the grief , Pain without relief , her husband soon her love forsook , To women lewd of mind , Being bad inclined , he only lent a pleasant look : The Lady she sat weeping , While that he was keeping company with others more , Her words my love believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . His fair Ladies Words nothing he regarded , Wantonness affords such delightful sport . While they dance and sing , with great mirth prepared , She her hands did wring in most grievous sort . O what hap had I , Thus to wail and cry ! unrespected every day , Living in disdain , While that others gain all the right I should enjoy . I am left forsaken , Others they are taken , ah my love why dost thou so ? Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . The Knight with his fair piece , at length the Lady spied , Who did him daily fleece of his wealth and store . Secretly she stood while she her fashions tried , With a patient mind while deep the strumpet swore . O sir Knight , quoth she , So dearly I love thee , my life does rest at thy dispose . By day and eke by night For thy sweet delight , thou shalt me in thy arms enclose . I am thine for ever , Still I will persever true to thee where ere I go . Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . The virtuous Lady mild , enters then among them , Being big with child , as ever she might be , With distilling tears she looked then upon them , Filled full of fears thus replied she ; Ah my Love and dear , Wherefore stay you here , refusing me your loving Wife , For and Harlots sake , Which each one will take , whose vile deeds provoke much strife Many can accuse her , Oh my love refuse her , with thy Lady homeward go , Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . All in a fury then the angry Knight up started , Very furious when he herd his Ladies speech , With many bitter terms his Wife he ever thwarted , Using hard extremes , while she did him beseech , From her neck so white , He took away in spite , her curious chain of purest gold , Her jewels and her rings , And all such costly things , as he about her did behold . The Harlot in her presence , He did gentle reverence , and to her he gave them all . He sent away his Lady , Full of woe as may be , who in a swoon with grief did fallen , A TO the Ladies wrong , the Harlot fleered and laughed , Enticements are so strong , they overcome the wise ; The Knight nothing regarded , to see the Lady scoffed , Thus was she regarded for her enterprise . The Harlot all this space , Did him oft embrace , she flatters him and thus does say , For thee i'll die and live , For thee my faith i'll give , no woe shall work my loves decay ; Thou shalt be my treasure , Thou shalt be my pleasure , thou shalt be my hearts delight , I will be thy darling , I will be thy Worldling , in despite of fortune's spite . Thus he did remain , in wasteful great expenses , Till it bred his pain , and consumed him quite : When his Lands were spent , troubled in his senses , Then did he repent of his late lewd Life , For relief he hies , For relief he flies , to them on whom he spent his Gold , They do him deny , They do him defy , they will not once his face behold . Being thus distressed , Being thus oppressed , in the fields that night he lay , Which the Harlot knowing , Through her malice growing , sought to take his life away . A young and proper Lad , they had slave in secret , For the Gold he had , whom they did convey , By a Ruffian lude to that place directly Where the youthful Knight fast asleeping lay . The bloody Dagger than Where with they killed the Man , hard by the Knight he likewise laid Sprinkling him with blood , As he thought it good , and then no longer there he stayed , The Knight being so abused , Was forthwith accused for this murder which was done , And he was condemned , That had not offended , shameful death he might not shun , When the Lady bright , understood the matter , That her wedded Knight , was condemned to die : To the King she went , with all the speed that might be , Where she did lament , her hard destiny : Noble King ( quoth she ) Pity take on me , and pardon my poor husbands life , Else I am undone , With my little Son , let mercy mitigate this grief : Lady fair content thee , Soon thou wouldst repent thee , if he should be saved so ; Soar he hath abused thee , Soar he hath misused thee , therefore Lady let him go . O my Liege , quoth she , grant your gracious Dear he is to me , though he did me wrong , The King replied again , with a stern behaviour , A Subject he hath slave , die he shall ever long , Except thou canst find , Any one so kind , that will die and set him free , Noble King she said , Glad am I paid , that same person will I be . I will suffer duly , I will suffer truly , for my love and husbands sake , The King thereat amazed , Though he her beauty praised , he had from thence they should her take It was the Kings command on the morrow after , She should out of hand to the Scaffold go : Her Husband was to bear the Sword before her , He must eke alas give the deadly blow ; He refused the deed , She bid him proceed , with a thosand kisses sweet , In this woeful case , They did both embrace , which moved the Ruffions in that place Straight for to discover , This concealed murder , whereby the Lady saved was , The Harlot then was hanged , As she well deserved this did virtue bring to pass . P rinted for F . Coles , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J . Clarke . 