The Wandering Jews Chronicle ; OR , The Old Historian , His Brief Declaration , Made in a Mad Fashion , Of each Coronation , That passed in this Nation , Since Williams Invasion , For no great occasion , But mere Recreation , To put off Vexation . Tune of , Our Prince is welcome out of Spain . W Hen William Duke of Normandy , With all his Normans gallantly , This Kingdom did subdue : Full fifteen years of age I was , And what ever since hath come to pass , I can report for true . I can remember since he went From London for to Conquer Kent , where in a walking Wood , The men of Kent Compassed him , And he for aye confirmed to them , King Edwards Laws for good . Likewise , I William Rufus knew , And saw the Arrow that him slew , hard by a Forest side : I well could tell you if I list , Or better tell you if I wist , who next to him did ride . First Henry I , and Stephen knew , Who no man there but I did view , I saw them Crowned and dead : I can remember well also , The second Henry's Royal show , that day that he was wed . I likewise was at Woodstock-Bower , And saw the sweet and famous flower , Queen Elinor did so spite I found the Clew of Thread again , After that worthy Knight was slave , 'twas green , blue , read , and white . I saw King Richard in his Shirt , Pull out a furious Lyons heart , whereby his strength was tried ; I saw King John , when as the Monk Gave him the Poison which he drunk , and then forsooth he died . I marked the Barrons when they sent For the French Doulphin , with intent to put third Henry down : I saw the Earl of Leicester stout , ( Called Simon Munford ) with his Tent besiege fair London Town . And I have the first Edward seen , Whose legs I still thought to have had been a yard and more in length : With him I into Scotland went , And back again incontinent , which he subdued by strength . I knew Carnarven's Minion dear , And saw the fallen of Mortimeer , with all the Barrons Wars : And likely was to have been sent , To Burton Battle upon Trent , where I received these scars . Third Edward and his valiant Son , by whom great feats of arms were dONE I saw on Cressy Plain : Which day when bows & amp ; arows keen , Grew scant with mighty stones I wen were many French men slave . I knew What Tyler and Jack Staw , And I the Mayor of London saw , in Smithfield which him slew : I was at Pomfret Castle , when The second Richard there was slave , whose death ever since I rue . I saw when Henry Bullingbrook The Crown and Sceptre on him took which he became full well : I saw when H enry H otsur he , And many Lords at Shrewsbury , were slave in Battle fell . I saw the brave victorious Prince , ( whose death I have bewailed ever since ) Henry the fifth I mean : And I can give you just report , How many French at Agen-Court , were in one battle slave . I saw the White , & amp ; Red-rose Knight , And Warwick great in Armour bright , in the sixth Henry is Reign : And present was that very hour , When Henry was in London Tower , by Crooked-back Richard slave . I in the Goldsmiths Shop have seen , Fourth Edwards famous Concubine , whose name was [ fa ] ir Jane Shore : I saw when Richar [ worser ] cruelly , Did put her to gr [ ea ] tO misery , and I was grie [ ved ] therefore . I also was at Bosworth field , Well armed there with Spear & amp ; shield meaning to try my force : Where Richard losing life and Crown Was naked bourn to Leicester Town , upon a Colliars horse . To the seventh Henry then I was A Servant , as it came to pass , to serve him at his need ; And while I did in Court remain , I saw in the eighth Henry is Reign , full many great men bleed . I was a Soldier bold with him , Over Neptunes curled breast did swim , unto the realm of France : I helped to ransack Bulloign Town , And many places of Renown , yet home I came by chance . I knew sixth Edward of a Child , Whose countenance was very mild , a hopeful Prince he was : I knew Queen Marry in her Reign , Put Protestants to much pain , and reset up the Mass. And to my comfort I have seen , Elizabeth that Maiden-Queen , Queen Maries only Sister : Though she reigned forty years , Her Subject's showed by their tears , that they too soon did miss her . I saw King James come from the north Like to a Star that shines forth , to glad the peoples sighed : He brought a salve to cure our wound And made great Brittain safe & amp ; found through equity and right . He was in troth a Prince of Peace , And made all former jars to cease betwixt English-men and Scots : The English-men sung merry Sonnets , The Scots they threw up their Bonnets for joy of their good Lots . In Scotland born , in England Nursed , Was Pious Princely Charles the first , who had to Wife Queen Marry ; But by the rage of Rebels hate , Murdered and Martyred at his Gate , this good King did miscarry . King Charles the second , that had spent Many long years in Banishment and scaped with life so nearly By miracle and means unknown Sits in the brightness of his Throne where he does shine most clearly . Queen Katherine his betrothed Wife The Lady of his Love and Life , is likewise now hither And may their bodies now increase , In love and children , joy and peace , long as they live together . Printed for J. C. W. T. [ and ] worser T. P . The Wandering Jews Chronicle ; OR , The Old Historian , His Brief Declaration , Made in a Mad Fashion , Of each Coronation , That passed in this Nation , Since Williams Invasion , For no great occasion , But mere Recreation , To put off Vexation . Tune of , Our Prince is welcome out of Spain . W Hen William Duke of Normandy , With all his Normans gallantly , This Kingdom did subdue : Full fifteen years of age I was , And what ever since hath come to pass , I can report for true . I can remember since he went From London for to Conquer Kent , where in a walking Wood , The men of Kent Compassed him , And he for aye confirmed to them , King Edwards Laws for good . Likewise , I William Rufus knew , And saw the Arrow that him slew , hard by a Forest side : I well could tell you if I list , Or better tell you if I wist , who next to him did ride . First Henry I , and Stephen knew , Who no man there but I did view , I saw them Crowned and dead : I can remember well also , The second Henry's Royal show , that day that he was wed . I likewise was at Woodstock-Bower , And saw the sweet and famous flower , Queen Elinor did so spite I found the Clew of Thread again , After that worthy Knight was slave , 'twas green , blue , read , and white . I saw King Richard in his Shirt , Pull out a furious Lyons heart , whereby his strength was tried ; I saw King John , when as the Monk Gave him the Poison which he drunk , and then forsooth he died . I marked the Barrons when they sent For the French Doulphin , with intent to put third Henry down : I saw the Earl of Leicester stout , ( Called Simon Munford ) with his Tent besiege fair London Town . And I have the first Edward seen , Whose legs I still thought to have had been a yard and more in length : With him I into Scotland went , And back again incontinent , which he subdued by strength . I knew Carnarven's Minion dear , And saw the fallen of Mortimeer , with all the Barrons Wars : And likely was to have been sent , To Burton Battle upon Trent , where I received these scars . Third Edward and his valiant Son , by whom great feats of arms were dONE I saw on Cressy Plain : Which day when bows & amp ; arows keen , Grew scant with mighty stones I wen were many French men slave . I knew What Tyler and Jack Staw , And I the Mayor of London saw , in Smithfield which him slew : I was at Pomfret Castle , when The second Richard there was slave , whose death ever since I rue . I saw when Henry Bullingbrook The Crown and Sceptre on him took which he became full well : I saw when H enry H otsur he , And many Lords at Shrewsbury , were slave in Battle fell . I saw the brave victorious Prince , ( whose death I have bewailed ever since ) Henry the fifth I mean : And I can give you just report , How many French at Agen-Court , were in one battle slave . I saw the White , & amp ; Red-rose Knight , And Warwick great in Armour bright , in the sixth Henry is Reign : And present was that very hour , When Henry was in London Tower , by Crooked-back Richard slave . I in the Goldsmiths Shop have seen , Fourth Edwards famous Concubine , whose name was [ fa ] ir Jane Shore : I saw when Richar [ worser ] cruelly , Did put her to gr [ ea ] tO misery , and I was grie [ ved ] therefore . I also was at Bosworth field , Well armed there with Spear & amp ; shield meaning to try my force : Where Richard losing life and Crown Was naked bourn to Leicester Town , upon a Colliars horse . To the seventh Henry then I was A Servant , as it came to pass , to serve him at his need ; And while I did in Court remain , I saw in the eighth Henry is Reign , full many great men bleed . I was a Soldier bold with him , Over Neptunes curled breast did swim , unto the realm of France : I helped to ransack Bulloign Town , And many places of Renown , yet home I came by chance . I knew sixth Edward of a Child , Whose countenance was very mild , a hopeful Prince he was : I knew Queen Marry in her Reign , Put Protestants to much pain , and reset up the Mass. And to my comfort I have seen , Elizabeth that Maiden-Queen , Queen Maries only Sister : Though she reigned forty years , Her Subject's showed by their tears , that they too soon did miss her . I saw King James come from the north Like to a Star that shines forth , to glad the peoples sighed : He brought a salve to cure our wound And made great Brittain safe & amp ; found through equity and right . He was in troth a Prince of Peace , And made all former jars to cease betwixt English-men and Scots : The English-men sung merry Sonnets , The Scots they threw up their Bonnets for joy of their good Lots . In Scotland born , in England Nursed , Was Pious Princely Charles the first , who had to Wife Queen Marry ; But by the rage of Rebels hate , Murdered and Martyred at his Gate , this good King did miscarry . King Charles the second , that had spent Many long years in Banishment and scaped with life so nearly By miracle and means unknown Sits in the brightness of his Throne where he does shine most clearly . Queen Katherine his betrothed Wife The Lady of his Love and Life , is likewise now hither And may their bodies now increase , In love and children , joy and peace , long as they live together . Printed for J. C. W. T. [ and ] worser T. P. 