A very godly Song , entitled , The earnest petition of a faithful Christian , being Clarke of Bodnam , made upon his Death bed , at the instant of his Transmutation . To a pleasant new tune . N Owe my painful eyes are rolling , And my passing Bell is towling : Towling sweetly : I lie dying , And my life is from me flying . Grant me strength , Oh gracious God , For to endure thy heavy rod : Then shall I rejoice and sing , With Psalms unto my heavenly King . Simeon that blessed man , Believed Christ when he was come , And then he did desire to die , To live with him eternally . Christ wrought me a strong salvation , By his death and bitter passion : He hath washed and made me clean , That I should never sin again . Grievous pains do call and cry , Oh man , prepare thy self to die . All my sins I have lamented , And to die I am contented . Silly Soul , the Lord receive thee , Death is come , and life must leave thee , Death does tarry no men leisure , Then farewell all earthly pleasure . In this world I nothing crave , But to bring me to my Grave , In my Grave while I lie sleeping , Angels have my soul in keeping . When the Bells' are for me ringing , Lord receive my soul with singing : Then shall I be free from pain , To live and never die again . While those worms corruption breed on , Wait my noisome corpses to feed on , My fervent love ( this prison loathing ) Craves a robe of Angels clothing . Farewell world and worldly glory , Farewell all things transitory , Sion hill my soul ascendeth , And Gods Royal Throne attends . Farewell wife and children small , For I must go now Christ does call , And for my death be you content , When I am gone , do not lament . Now the Bell does cease to towle . Sweet Jesus Christ receive my soul . The second part of the Clarke of Bodnam . To the same tune . O God which did the world create , Hear a poor sinner at thy gate : Thou that from death didst set me free , Remit my sins and show mercy . O thou that caus'dst thy blessed Son , Into this Universe to come , Thy Gospel true here to fulfil , And to subdue death , sin , and hell . Grant for his sake that died on tree , On the blessed Mount of Calvary : That I being grieved for my since , May by repentance heaven win . The Gospel says , Who so believe , To them wilt thou a blessing give : among which number grant me faith , That to believe , thy Gospel says . Which if I do , ( as grant I may , Though here I die , I live for aye : Then Saviour sweet , remit my since , And give me grace that life to win . And since they death ( a price most great ) Hath bought me , here I do entreat , To give me grace thy Name to praise , Both now , and evermore always . For by thy death my soul is free From hell , which still by thy decree , To sinners all for sin [ is ] due , Until thy Son our Saviour true , Did vanquish by Almighty power , Death , hell , and all that could devour My sins , Oh Lord , I do confess , Like sands in Sea are numberless . Yet though my sins as scarlet show , Their whiteness may exceed the S [ now ] If thou thy mercy dost extend , That I my sinful life may mend . Which mercy thy blessed Word does say , At any time obtain I may , If power and grace in me remain , From carnal since for to refrain . Then give me grace , Lord , to refrain From sins , that I may still remain With thee in heaven , where Angels sing , Most joyfully to thee our King . And grant ( Oh Christ ) that when I die , My soul with thee immediately , May have abided among the blessed , And live for ever in true rest . FINIS . Printed at London for H. G . A very godly Song , entitled , The earnest petition of a faithful Christian , being Clarke of Bodnam , made upon his Death bed , at the instant of his Transmutation . To a pleasant new tune . N Owe my painful eyes are rolling , And my passing Bell is towling : Towling sweetly : I lie dying , And my life is from me flying . Grant me strength , Oh gracious God , For to endure thy heavy rod : Then shall I rejoice and sing , With Psalms unto my heavenly King . Simeon that blessed man , Believed Christ when he was come , And then he did desire to die , To live with him eternally . Christ wrought me a strong salvation , By his death and bitter passion : He hath washed and made me clean , That I should never sin again . Grievous pains do call and cry , Oh man , prepare thy self to die . All my sins I have lamented , And to die I am contented . Silly Soul , the Lord receive thee , Death is come , and life must leave thee , Death does tarry no men leisure , Then farewell all earthly pleasure . In this world I nothing crave , But to bring me to my Grave , In my Grave while I lie sleeping , Angels have my soul in keeping . When the Bells' are for me ringing , Lord receive my soul with singing : Then shall I be free from pain , To live and never die again . While those worms corruption breed on , Wait my noisome corpses to feed on , My fervent love ( this prison loathing ) Craves a robe of Angels clothing . Farewell world and worldly glory , Farewell all things transitory , Sion hill my soul ascendeth , And Gods Royal Throne attends . Farewell wife and children small , For I must go now Christ does call , And for my death be you content , When I am gone , do not lament . Now the Bell does cease to towle . Sweet Jesus Christ receive my soul . The second part of the Clarke of Bodnam . To the same tune . O God which did the world create , Hear a poor sinner at thy gate : Thou that from death didst set me free , Remit my sins and show mercy . O thou that caus'dst thy blessed Son , Into this Universe to come , Thy Gospel true here to fulfil , And to subdue death , sin , and hell . Grant for his sake that died on tree , On the blessed Mount of Calvary : That I being grieved for my since , May by repentance heaven win . The Gospel says , Who so believe , To them wilt thou a blessing give : among which number grant me faith , That to believe , thy Gospel says . Which if I do , ( as grant I may , Though here I die , I live for aye : Then Saviour sweet , remit my since , And give me grace that life to win . And since they death ( a price most great ) Hath bought me , here I do entreat , To give me grace thy Name to praise , Both now , and evermore always . For by thy death my soul is free From hell , which still by thy decree , To sinners all for sin [ is ] due , Until thy Son our Saviour true , Did vanquish by Almighty power , Death , hell , and all that could devour My sins , Oh Lord , I do confess , Like sands in Sea are numberless . Yet though my sins as scarlet show , Their whiteness may exceed the S [ now ] If thou thy mercy dost extend , That I my sinful life may mend . Which mercy thy blessed Word does say , At any time obtain I may , If power and grace in me remain , From carnal since for to refrain . Then give me grace , Lord , to refrain From sins , that I may still remain With thee in heaven , where Angels sing , Most joyfully to thee our King . And grant ( Oh Christ ) that when I die , My soul with thee immediately , May have abided among the blessed , And live for ever in true rest . FINIS . Printed at London for H. G. 