The Virgins A.B.C. OR , And Alphabet of Virtuous Admonitions , for a Chaste , Modest , and well-governed Maid . TO he Tune is , The Young men A.B.C. LL you faithful Virgins , to this song give ear , And learn these Lessons , which are taught you here : And Alphabet of Virtues , are here set , Being learned will make a Maid complete . Ear not a scornful mind , although you are Beauteous as Hellen , or like Venus fair : It ill becomes a forehead smooth and white , To threaten anger in a Lovers sighed . Huse thou a modest carriage , and still be Courteous and not too coy , in company : Their Nature's changing , and too much unkind , Who hath a comely face and scornful mind . Isdainful never seem , nor yet too much Dote on your faces beauty , slighting such As sue for Love , least creeping age come on And then too late , your folly you bemoan . Xchange no love , but always constant be , Esteem true love a perfect treasury : For where true love and beauty does unite , It yields both parties both their hearts delight . Eign no affection , but where vows a re past , Fix there your heart , there let your love be placed For if by feigned wiles , loves knot be tied , It breeds dissension betwixt the Groom and Bride . Row not too proud , though smiling fortune do Great store of wealth , and her best gifts bestow : For Pride the Proverb says must have a fallen , And so must Maidens , widows , wives , and all . Ast not too much for marriage , nor the thing , Which does not pleasure , but does sorrow bring ; For hasty lovers often do destroy , Their sweets of Love , ever they their hope's enjoy . F you do choose a man whom you affect , Injure him not , with any disrespect ; But wary be , and ever lovers knot you tie , Prove first your own , and then his constancy . Nowledge is gained by experience , and by this , Thou mayest arrive unto the height of bliss First try , then trust . the which when you have proved You both may love , and be as well beloved . Ook ever you leap , the proverb still does say , Let not smooth tongues your love to Lust betray : In fairest Grass a snake is often found , And smoothest tongues , with falsehood much abound . Oan not too much , nor be thou always sad , Mirth sometime may become a virtuous Maid : Yet use not too much laughter , lest you be Slighted and scorned , for your immodesty . Or use uncivil talk , or gesture light , Nor in unseemly wantonness delight : But keep chaste behaviour , that you may Have good report , in every kind of way . Ffend not with a foul and slanderous tongue , Of them that do not think thee any wrong ; But speak thou well of all , and always do With others as you would have them to do with you . Aint not your beauty when it is decayed ; Prize not that for a jewel that will fade , And when you've done , the best will fade away , And through read Cheeks , a wrinkled brow display . Uench in thy self all lustest inflaming fires , Which may provoke thee to such unchaste desires ; For though a while pleasure please the mind , Yet sorrow , want , and beggary comes behind . Emember next how like a fading flower , The earth's best treasures vanish in and hour : And now the best of things you can enjoy , The Sith of time shall cut , and death destroy . Eke therefore richer gifts then he can give , So shalt thou in a state most surely live : For though fair beauty , deck thy outward part , Yet inward virtue best adorns thy heart . Ry that rich jem , which when thou hast attained , Thou hast a virtuous Maids chief beauty gained : And if fair virtue do thy courses steer , Like loves fair daughter , thou shalt bright appear . Ain beauty's but a trifle , that a while Dame nature lends thee , with a flattering smile : Which lovers gaze at , and with greedy hands , Each one will crop its blossoms as it stands . Hilst in its fullest ripeness it is grown , When it's decayed , their loves are with it g [ one ] Let then this be thy care , and chiefest strife , To live a virtuous Maid , and honest Wife . Antippe like the wife of Socrates , Affect thou not thy husband to displease : Nor with a railing tongue , pursue his will , And in humility , obey him still . Ield not to others when you once are wed , The pleasures of your lawful husbands b [ ed ] For if you guilty be of such a fact , Thou shalt not escape , unpunished for that act . Jealous be thou in all these virtues , prove Both constant , chaste , and loyal to your love : And if these Lessons well you learn , for thee , It's truly stiled the Virgins A , B , C . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Virgins A.B.C. OR , And Alphabet of Virtuous Admonitions , for a Chaste , Modest , and well-governed Maid . TO he Tune is , The Young men A.B.C. LL you faithful Virgins , to this song give ear , And learn these Lessons , which are taught you here : And Alphabet of Virtues , are here set , Being learned will make a Maid complete . Ear not a scornful mind , although you are Beauteous as Hellen , or like Venus fair : It ill becomes a forehead smooth and white , To threaten anger in a Lovers sighed . Huse thou a modest carriage , and still be Courteous and not too coy , in company : Their Nature's changing , and too much unkind , Who hath a comely face and scornful mind . Isdainful never seem , nor yet too much Dote on your faces beauty , slighting such As sue for Love , least creeping age come on And then too late , your folly you bemoan . Xchange no love , but always constant be , Esteem true love a perfect treasury : For where true love and beauty does unite , It yields both parties both their hearts delight . Eign no affection , but where vows a re past , Fix there your heart , there let your love be placed For if by feigned wiles , loves knot be tied , It breeds dissension betwixt the Groom and Bride . Row not too proud , though smiling fortune do Great store of wealth , and her best gifts bestow : For Pride the Proverb says must have a fallen , And so must Maidens , widows , wives , and all . Ast not too much for marriage , nor the thing , Which does not pleasure , but does sorrow bring ; For hasty lovers often do destroy , Their sweets of Love , ever they their hope's enjoy . F you do choose a man whom you affect , Injure him not , with any disrespect ; But wary be , and ever lovers knot you tie , Prove first your own , and then his constancy . Nowledge is gained by experience , and by this , Thou mayest arrive unto the height of bliss First try , then trust . the which when you have proved You both may love , and be as well beloved . Ook ever you leap , the proverb still does say , Let not smooth tongues your love to Lust betray : In fairest Grass a snake is often found , And smoothest tongues , with falsehood much abound . Oan not too much , nor be thou always sad , Mirth sometime may become a virtuous Maid : Yet use not too much laughter , lest you be Slighted and scorned , for your immodesty . Or use uncivil talk , or gesture light , Nor in unseemly wantonness delight : But keep chaste behaviour , that you may Have good report , in every kind of way . Ffend not with a foul and slanderous tongue , Of them that do not think thee any wrong ; But speak thou well of all , and always do With others as you would have them to do with you . Aint not your beauty when it is decayed ; Prize not that for a jewel that will fade , And when you've done , the best will fade away , And through read Cheeks , a wrinkled brow display . Uench in thy self all lustest inflaming fires , Which may provoke thee to such unchaste desires ; For though a while pleasure please the mind , Yet sorrow , want , and beggary comes behind . Emember next how like a fading flower , The earth's best treasures vanish in and hour : And now the best of things you can enjoy , The Sith of time shall cut , and death destroy . Eke therefore richer gifts then he can give , So shalt thou in a state most surely live : For though fair beauty , deck thy outward part , Yet inward virtue best adorns thy heart . Ry that rich jem , which when thou hast attained , Thou hast a virtuous Maids chief beauty gained : And if fair virtue do thy courses steer , Like loves fair daughter , thou shalt bright appear . Ain beauty's but a trifle , that a while Dame nature lends thee , with a flattering smile : Which lovers gaze at , and with greedy hands , Each one will crop its blossoms as it stands . Hilst in its fullest ripeness it is grown , When it's decayed , their loves are with it g [ one ] Let then this be thy care , and chiefest strife , To live a virtuous Maid , and honest Wife . Antippe like the wife of Socrates , Affect thou not thy husband to displease : Nor with a railing tongue , pursue his will , And in humility , obey him still . Ield not to others when you once are wed , The pleasures of your lawful husbands b [ ed ] For if you guilty be of such a fact , Thou shalt not escape , unpunished for that act . Jealous be thou in all these virtues , prove Both constant , chaste , and loyal to your love : And if these Lessons well you learn , for thee , It's truly stiled the Virgins A , B , C . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 