A Worthy Example of a Virtuous Wife , who Fed her Father with her own Milk , being Condemned to be starved to Death , and was afterwards pardoned by the Emperor . Tune is , Flying Fame . I N Room I read a Noble Man , the Emperor did offend , And for that fault he was adjudged unto a cruel end : That he should be in Prison cast , with Irons many a one , And there be famished unto death , and brought to skin and bone . And more , if any one were known , by night or yet by day , To bring him any kind of Food , his hunger to allay : The Emperor swore a mighty Oath , without remorse , quoth he , They should sustain the cruelest death that could devised be . This cruel Sentence once pronounced , the Nobleman was cast Into a Dungeon dark and deep , with Irons Fettered fast : Where when he had with hunger great , remained ten days space , And tasted neither Meat nor drink , in a most woeful case . The tears along his aged face , most piteous did fallen , And grievously he did begin , for to complain withal : Oh Lord , quoth he , what shall I do ; so hungry Lord am I ; For want of bred , one bit of bred , . I perish , starve and die . How precious is one grain of wheat , unto my hungry Soul , One crust or crumb , or little piece , my hunger to control : Had I this Dungeon heaped with Gold , I would forgo it all , To buy and purchase one brown loaf , yea were it never so small . O that I had but every day , one bit of bred to eat , Though never so mouldy , black or brown , my comfort would be great : Yea , albeit I took it up , trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , and sweet to my desire . Good Lord how happy is the Hind , that labours all the day , The drudging Mule , the peasant poor , that at command do stay : They have their ordinary meals , they take no heed at all , Of those sweet crumbs & amp ; crusts that they do carelessly let fallen . How happy is that little Chick , that without fear may go and pick up those most precious crumbs which they away do throw : Oh that some pretty little Mouse , so much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken Crust into this place to me . B Ut O my heart , it is in vain , no succour can I have , No meat no [ r ] drink , nor water eke , my loathed life to save : Oh bring some bred for Christ his sake , some Bred , some Bred for me . I die , I die , for want of food , none but stone walls I see : Thus day and night he cried out , in most outrageous sort , That all the people far and near , were grieved at his report : And though that many friends he had , and Daughters in the Town , Yet none durst come to succour him , fearing the Emperor's frown . Yet now behold one Daughter dear , he had as I do find , Who lived in his displeasure great , for matching against his mind : Although she lived in mean Estate , she was a virtuous W [ i ] fe , And for to help her Father dear , she ventured thus her life . She quickly to her Sisters went , and of them did entreat , That by some secret means they would convey their Father meat ; Our Father dear does starve , she said , the Emperor's wrath is such , He die alas , for want of food , whereof we have too much . Sweet sisters therefore use some means his life for to preserve , And suffer not your Father dear , in Prison for to starve ; Alas , quoth they , what shall we do , his hunger to sustain , You know it's death for any one , that would his life maintain . And though we wish him well , quod they , we never will agree , To spoil our selves , we had as lief , that he should die as we : And Sister if you love your self , let this attempt alone , Though you do never so secret work , at length it will be known . O hath our Father brought us up , and nourished us , quoth she , And shall we now forsake him quite , in his extremity ? No , I will venture life and limb , to do my Father good , The worst that is I can but die , to fit a Tyrants mood . With that in haste away she hies , and to the Prison goes , But with her woeful Father dear , she might not speak God knows : Except the Emperor would grant her favour in that case , The Keeper would admit no wight , to enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , and falling on her knee , With wringing hands and bitter tears , these words pronounced she : My hopeless Father , gracious Lord , offending of your Grace , Is judged unto a pining death , within a woeful place . Which I confess he hath deserved , yet mighty Prince ( quoth she ) Vouchsafe in gracious sort to grant one simple book to me : It chanced so I matched my self against my Father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , as fortune hath assigned . And seeing now the time is come , he must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I may speak to him , before his hour of death : And reconcile my self to him , his favour to obtain , That when he dies I may not then , under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request , conditionally that she Each day unto her Father came , should thoroughly searched be : No Meat nor drink she with her brought to help him there distressed , But every day she nourished him , with Milk from her own Breast . Thus by her Milk he was preserved , a twelvemonth and a day , And was as fair and fat to see , yet no man knew which way : The Emperor musing much thereat , at length did understand , How he was fed , and not his Law was broke at any hand . And much admired at the same , and her great virtue shown , He pardoned him , and honoured her , [ ! ] with great preferments known : Her Father ever after that , did love her as his Life , And b [ l ] est the day that she was made a loving Wedded Wife . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Worthy Example of a Virtuous Wife , who Fed her Father with her own Milk , being Condemned to be starved to Death , and was afterwards pardoned by the Emperor . Tune is , Flying Fame . I N Room I read a Noble Man , the Emperor did offend , And for that fault he was adjudged unto a cruel end : That he should be in Prison cast , with Irons many a one , And there be famished unto death , and brought to skin and bone . And more , if any one were known , by night or yet by day , To bring him any kind of Food , his hunger to allay : The Emperor swore a mighty Oath , without remorse , quoth he , They should sustain the cruelest death that could devised be . This cruel Sentence once pronounced , the Nobleman was cast Into a Dungeon dark and deep , with Irons Fettered fast : Where when he had with hunger great , remained ten days space , And tasted neither Meat nor drink , in a most woeful case . The tears along his aged face , most piteous did fallen , And grievously he did begin , for to complain withal : Oh Lord , quoth he , what shall I do ; so hungry Lord am I ; For want of bred , one bit of bred , . I perish , starve and die . How precious is one grain of wheat , unto my hungry Soul , One crust or crumb , or little piece , my hunger to control : Had I this Dungeon heaped with Gold , I would forgo it all , To buy and purchase one brown loaf , yea were it never so small . O that I had but every day , one bit of bred to eat , Though never so mouldy , black or brown , my comfort would be great : Yea , albeit I took it up , trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , and sweet to my desire . Good Lord how happy is the Hind , that labours all the day , The drudging Mule , the peasant poor , that at command do stay : They have their ordinary meals , they take no heed at all , Of those sweet crumbs & amp ; crusts that they do carelessly let fallen . How happy is that little Chick , that without fear may go and pick up those most precious crumbs which they away do throw : Oh that some pretty little Mouse , so much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken Crust into this place to me . B Ut O my heart , it is in vain , no succour can I have , No meat no [ r ] drink , nor water eke , my loathed life to save : Oh bring some bred for Christ his sake , some Bred , some Bred for me . I die , I die , for want of food , none but stone walls I see : Thus day and night he cried out , in most outrageous sort , That all the people far and near , were grieved at his report : And though that many friends he had , and Daughters in the Town , Yet none durst come to succour him , fearing the Emperor's frown . Yet now behold one Daughter dear , he had as I do find , Who lived in his displeasure great , for matching against his mind : Although she lived in mean Estate , she was a virtuous W [ i ] fe , And for to help her Father dear , she ventured thus her life . She quickly to her Sisters went , and of them did entreat , That by some secret means they would convey their Father meat ; Our Father dear does starve , she said , the Emperor's wrath is such , He die alas , for want of food , whereof we have too much . Sweet sisters therefore use some means his life for to preserve , And suffer not your Father dear , in Prison for to starve ; Alas , quoth they , what shall we do , his hunger to sustain , You know it's death for any one , that would his life maintain . And though we wish him well , quod they , we never will agree , To spoil our selves , we had as lief , that he should die as we : And Sister if you love your self , let this attempt alone , Though you do never so secret work , at length it will be known . O hath our Father brought us up , and nourished us , quoth she , And shall we now forsake him quite , in his extremity ? No , I will venture life and limb , to do my Father good , The worst that is I can but die , to fit a Tyrants mood . With that in haste away she hies , and to the Prison goes , But with her woeful Father dear , she might not speak God knows : Except the Emperor would grant her favour in that case , The Keeper would admit no wight , to enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , and falling on her knee , With wringing hands and bitter tears , these words pronounced she : My hopeless Father , gracious Lord , offending of your Grace , Is judged unto a pining death , within a woeful place . Which I confess he hath deserved , yet mighty Prince ( quoth she ) Vouchsafe in gracious sort to grant one simple book to me : It chanced so I matched my self against my Father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , as fortune hath assigned . And seeing now the time is come , he must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I may speak to him , before his hour of death : And reconcile my self to him , his favour to obtain , That when he dies I may not then , under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request , conditionally that she Each day unto her Father came , should thoroughly searched be : No Meat nor drink she with her brought to help him there distressed , But every day she nourished him , with Milk from her own Breast . Thus by her Milk he was preserved , a twelvemonth and a day , And was as fair and fat to see , yet no man knew which way : The Emperor musing much thereat , at length did understand , How he was fed , and not his Law was broke at any hand . And much admired at the same , and her great virtue shown , He pardoned him , and honoured her , [ ! ] with great preferments known : Her Father ever after that , did love her as his Life , And b [ l ] est the day that she was made a loving Wedded Wife . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 