A Godly Warning for all Maidens , by the exam ple of Gods Judgement showed on one Jermans - Wife of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who lying in Childbed , was born away , and never herd of after . To the Tune of , The Ladis Fallen . Y Ou dainty Dams so finely framed , of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like Lambs in Cupids fold : Here is a Lesson to be learned , a lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame , for beauty without peer : Her cheeks were like the crimson Rose , yet as you may perceive , The fairest face the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant dame she was beloved , of many in that place , And many sought in marriage bed , her body to embrace : A [ tO ] last a proper handsome youth , young Bateman called by name , In hope to make a married wife , unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , that he from all the rest , Had stolen away the Maidens heart , and she did love him best ; Then plighted promise secretly did pass between them two , That nothing could but death it self , this true loves knot undo . He brake a piece of Gold in twain , one half to her he gave , The other as a pledge , quoth he , dear heart my self will have . If I do break my Vow , quoth she while I remain alive , May never thing I take in hand be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , and then this Maid began , To settle love and liking too upon another man : One Jerman who a Widower was , her Husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , and better in degree . Her vows and Promise lately made , to Bateman she denied ; And in despite of him and his she utterly defied : Well then , quoth he , if it be so that you will me forsake , And like a false and forsworn wretch another Husband take . Thou shalt not Live one quiet hour for surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , when I am laid in grave ; Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , therefore be well assured , When for thy sake thou hearest report , what torments I endured . B ut mark how Bateman died for love , and finished up his life , That very day she married was , and made old Jermans wife : For with a strangling Cord God wot , great moan was made therefore , He hanged himself in desperate sort , before the Brides own door . Whereat such sorrow pierced her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that , one day of comfort find ; And wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise , Young Batemans pale and ghastly Ghost appeared before her eyes . When she in bed at night did lie betwixt her Husbands arms , In hope thereby to sleep and rest in safety without harms : Great cries & amp ; grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , Oh thou art she that I must have ; and will not be denayed . But she then being big with child , was for the Infants sake , Preserved from the spirits power , no vengeance could it take . The Babe unborn did safely keep , as God appointed so , His Mother's body from the Fiend that sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eased , and safely brought to Bed , Her care and grief began a new , and further sororw bred . And of her Friends she did entreat , dessring them to stay , Out of the bed , quoth she this night , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my love , with pale and ghastly face , Who till he bear me hence away , will not depart this place : Alive or dead I am his right and he will surely have , In spite of me and all the world , what I by promise gave . O watch with me this night I pray , and see you do not sleep , No longer then you be awake , my body can you keep . All promised to do their best , yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep , sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , to them unknown which way , The Childbed woman that woeful night from thence was born away : wnd to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell , As strange a thing as ever yet , in any age befell . You Maidens that desire to love , and would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love by no means do refuse . For God that hears all secret Oaths , will dreadful vengeance take , On such that of a wilful vow do slender reckoning make . Printed for W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . A Godly Warning for all Maidens , by the exam ple of Gods Judgement showed on one Jermans - Wife of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who lying in Childbed , was born away , and never herd of after . To the Tune of , The Ladis Fallen . Y Ou dainty Dams so finely framed , of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like Lambs in Cupids fold : Here is a Lesson to be learned , a lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame , for beauty without peer : Her cheeks were like the crimson Rose , yet as you may perceive , The fairest face the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant dame she was beloved , of many in that place , And many sought in marriage bed , her body to embrace : A [ tO ] last a proper handsome youth , young Bateman called by name , In hope to make a married wife , unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , that he from all the rest , Had stolen away the Maidens heart , and she did love him best ; Then plighted promise secretly did pass between them two , That nothing could but death it self , this true loves knot undo . He brake a piece of Gold in twain , one half to her he gave , The other as a pledge , quoth he , dear heart my self will have . If I do break my Vow , quoth she while I remain alive , May never thing I take in hand be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , and then this Maid began , To settle love and liking too upon another man : One Jerman who a Widower was , her Husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , and better in degree . Her vows and Promise lately made , to Bateman she denied ; And in despite of him and his she utterly defied : Well then , quoth he , if it be so that you will me forsake , And like a false and forsworn wretch another Husband take . Thou shalt not Live one quiet hour for surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , when I am laid in grave ; Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , therefore be well assured , When for thy sake thou hearest report , what torments I endured . B ut mark how Bateman died for love , and finished up his life , That very day she married was , and made old Jermans wife : For with a strangling Cord God wot , great moan was made therefore , He hanged himself in desperate sort , before the Brides own door . Whereat such sorrow pierced her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that , one day of comfort find ; And wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise , Young Batemans pale and ghastly Ghost appeared before her eyes . When she in bed at night did lie betwixt her Husbands arms , In hope thereby to sleep and rest in safety without harms : Great cries & amp ; grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , Oh thou art she that I must have ; and will not be denayed . But she then being big with child , was for the Infants sake , Preserved from the spirits power , no vengeance could it take . The Babe unborn did safely keep , as God appointed so , His Mother's body from the Fiend that sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eased , and safely brought to Bed , Her care and grief began a new , and further sororw bred . And of her Friends she did entreat , dessring them to stay , Out of the bed , quoth she this night , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my love , with pale and ghastly face , Who till he bear me hence away , will not depart this place : Alive or dead I am his right and he will surely have , In spite of me and all the world , what I by promise gave . O watch with me this night I pray , and see you do not sleep , No longer then you be awake , my body can you keep . All promised to do their best , yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep , sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , to them unknown which way , The Childbed woman that woeful night from thence was born away : wnd to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell , As strange a thing as ever yet , in any age befell . You Maidens that desire to love , and would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love by no means do refuse . For God that hears all secret Oaths , will dreadful vengeance take , On such that of a wilful vow do slender reckoning make . Printed for W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 