A pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the false Steward . The Tune is , Green-Sleeves . I TO was a worthy Lord of Lo [ r ] n he was a Lord of high degree , He sent his Son unto the School , to learn some civility . He learned more in one day , then other Children did in three , And thus bespoke the Schoolmaster , to him tenderly , In faith thou art the honestest boy , that ever I blinkt on with my eye : I hope thou art some Easterling born , the Holy Ghost is with thee : He said he was no Easterling born the child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son Perdy . The Schoolmaster turned round about , his angry mood he could not suage He marveled the child could speak so wise he being of so tender age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of the best Gold shown , He took his leave of his fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his father dear , he kneeled down on his knee I am come to you Father , he said , Gods blessing give you me : Thou art welcome my Son , he said , Gods blessing I thee give : What tidings hast thou brought my Son being come so hastily ? I have brought tidings Father , he said , and so liked it may be : There's never a Doctor in all the Realm for all he goes in rich array , I can write him a Lesson soon to learn in seven years [ da ] y . That is good tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand , My Son thou shalt into France go , to learn the speeches of each Land ; Who shall go with him , said the Lady ; husband we have none but he : Madam , he said my Head Steward , he hath been true to me . She called the Steward to and account a thousand pound she gave him anon : Says good sir steward by good to my child while he is far from home : If I be false unto my young Lord , then God be the like to me indeed , And now to France they both are gone , and God be their Good speed . They had not been in France Land , not three weeks to and end , But meat and drink the child god none , nor money in purse to spend . The Child run to the Rivers side , he was fain to drink water then , And after followed the false steward to put the Child therein : But nay marry , said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good steward let me have my life what ever betide my body ; Now put off thy fair clothing , and give it me anon , So put thee off thy silken shirt , with many a golden seam . But when the child was stripped naked his body as white as the Lily flower He might have been seen for his body , a Princes Paramour : He put him on and old keltar Coat , and hose of the same above the knee , He bid him go to the Shepherd's house , to keep Sheep on a love lovely : The Child said , what shall be my name good steward tell to me , Thy name shall be poor dost thou wear that thy name shall be . The Child came to the Shepherd's house , and asked mercy pitifully , Says , good Shepherd take me in , to keep Sheep on a love lovely : But when the Shepherd saw the Child he was so pleasant in the eye , I have no child I'll make thee my heir , thou shalt have my goods perdy . And then bespoke the shepherd's wife , unto the child so tenderly , Thou must take the sheep & amp ; go to the field and get them on a love lovely : Now let us leave talking of the child that is keeping sheep on a love lovely : And we'll talk more of the false steward , and of his false treachery . He bought himself three suits of apparel that any Lord might have seemed to worn he went a wooing to the Dukes daughter and called himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomed the young Lord with three baked Stags anon If he had wist himself the false Steward to the Devil he should have gone : But when they were at supper set with dainty delicates that were there , The Duke said if thou wilt wed my daughter I'll give thee a thousand pound a year : The Lady would see the read Buck run and also for to hunt the Doe , And with and hundred lusty men , the Lady did a hunting go ; The Lady is a hunting gone , over Feansel that is so high , There was she aware of a shepherd's boy with sheep on a love lovely : And ever he sighed and made moan , and cried out pitifully , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and knows not what's become of me : And then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her maid anon , Go fetch me hither the shepherd's boy , why makes he all this moan ? But when he came before the Lady , he was not to learn his courtesy , Where wast thou born thou bonny child for whose sake makest thou all this moan My dearest friend , Lady he said , is dead many years agon . Tell thou to me thou bonny child , tell me truth and do not lie , Knowest thou not the young Lord of Lorn he is come a wooing unto me : Yes forsooth , says the Child , I know the Lord then verily : The young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy sheep thou bonny Child , and come in service unto me , Yes forsooth , then said the child at your bidding will I be , When the Steward looked upon the child , he bewailed him villaniously , Where wast thou born thou vagabond , or where is thy Country ? Would down , would down , said the Lady , she called the steward then presently Without you bear him more good will , you get no love of me . Then bespoke the false steward , unto the Lady hastily : At Aberdine beyond the Seas , his father robbed thousands three . B Ut then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her father courteously : Saying , I have found a bonny Child , my chamberlain to be : Not so , not so , then said the Duke , for so it may not be : For the young Lord of Lorn that comes a wooing will think no good of thee and me . When the Duke had looked upon the Child he seemed so pleasant to the eye ; Child because thou lovest horses well , my groom of Stable thou shalt be . The Child plied the Horses well , a twelvemonth to and end , He was so courteous and so true every man become his friend : He led a fair Gelding to the water , where he might drink verily , The Gelding up with his head and hit the Child above the eye : Woe worth the horse , then said the Child that ever mare foled thee , Thou little knowest what thou hast done thou hast stricken a Lord of high degree The Dukes daughter was in her Garden green she herd the child make great moan , She ran to the child all weeping ; and left her Maidens all alone : Sing on thy Song thou bonny child , I will release thee of thy pain I have made and oath Lady he said , I dare not tell my tale again . Tell the horse thy tale thou bonny child , and so thy Oath shall saved be , But when he told the Horse his tale the Lady wept most tenderly . I'll do for thee my bonny Child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake my bonny child , I'll put my wedding off months three . The Lady did write a letter then , full pitifully with her own hand : She sent it to the Lord of Lorn , whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland : But when the Lord had read the Letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my Child in such a far country . The old Lord called up his Merry men and all that he gave Cloth and Fee ; With Seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he : The wind served and they did sail so far into france Land , They were aware of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters staff in his hand . The Lords they moved hat and hand , the Servingmen fell on their knee : What folks be yonder , said the Steward that makes the Porter courtesy : Thou are a false thief , quod the Lord of Lorn no longer might I bear with thee : By the law of France thou shalt be judged , whither it be to live or die . A quest of Lords there chosen was , to bench they come hastily : But when the Quest was ended , the false steward must die . First they did him half Hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling led and then was sodden breast and bone . And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn with many other Lords more , Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'll have a marriage before we go : These Children both they did rejoice to hear the Lord his tale so ended : They had rather to day then to morrow so he would not be offended . But when the wedding ended was , there was delicate dainty cheer , I'll tell you how long the wedding did last full three quarters of a year . Such a banquet there was wrought the like was never seen , The King of France brought with him then a hundred Tun of good read Wine : Five set of MusA pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the false Steward . The Tune is , Green-Sleeves . I TO was a worthy Lord of Lo [ r ] n he was a Lord of high degree , He sent his Son unto the School , to learn some civility . He learned more in one day , then other Children did in three , And thus bespoke the Schoolmaster , to him tenderly , In faith thou art the honestest boy , that ever I blinkt on with my eye : I hope thou art some Easterling born , the Holy Ghost is with thee : He said he was no Easterling born the child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son Perdy . The Schoolmaster turned round about , his angry mood he could not suage He marveled the child could speak so wise he being of so tender age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of the best Gold shown , He took his leave of his fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his father dear , he kneeled down on his knee I am come to you Father , he said , Gods blessing give you me : Thou art welcome my Son , he said , Gods blessing I thee give : What tidings hast thou brought my Son being come so hastily ? I have brought tidings Father , he said , and so liked it may be : There's never a Doctor in all the Realm for all he goes in rich array , I can write him a Lesson soon to learn in seven years [ da ] y . That is good tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand , My Son thou shalt into France go , to learn the speeches of each Land ; Who shall go with him , said the Lady ; husband we have none but he : Madam , he said my Head Steward , he hath been true to me . She called the Steward to and account a thousand pound she gave him anon : Says good sir steward by good to my child while he is far from home : If I be false unto my young Lord , then God be the like to me indeed , And now to France they both are gone , and God be their Good speed . They had not been in France Land , not three weeks to and end , But meat and drink the child god none , nor money in purse to spend . The Child run to the Rivers side , he was fain to drink water then , And after followed the false steward to put the Child therein : But nay marry , said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good steward let me have my life what ever betide my body ; Now put off thy fair clothing , and give it me anon , So put thee off thy silken shirt , with many a golden seam . But when the child was stripped naked his body as white as the Lily flower He might have been seen for his body , a Princes Paramour : He put him on and old keltar Coat , and hose of the same above the knee , He bid him go to the Shepherd's house , to keep Sheep on a love lovely : The Child said , what shall be my name good steward tell to me , Thy name shall be poor dost thou wear that thy name shall be . The Child came to the Shepherd's house , and asked mercy pitifully , Says , good Shepherd take me in , to keep Sheep on a love lovely : But when the Shepherd saw the Child he was so pleasant in the eye , I have no child I'll make thee my heir , thou shalt have my goods perdy . And then bespoke the shepherd's wife , unto the child so tenderly , Thou must take the sheep & amp ; go to the field and get them on a love lovely : Now let us leave talking of the child that is keeping sheep on a love lovely : And we'll talk more of the false steward , and of his false treachery . He bought himself three suits of apparel that any Lord might have seemed to worn he went a wooing to the Dukes daughter and called himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomed the young Lord with three baked Stags anon If he had wist himself the false Steward to the Devil he should have gone : But when they were at supper set with dainty delicates that were there , The Duke said if thou wilt wed my daughter I'll give thee a thousand pound a year : The Lady would see the read Buck run and also for to hunt the Doe , And with and hundred lusty men , the Lady did a hunting go ; The Lady is a hunting gone , over Feansel that is so high , There was she aware of a shepherd's boy with sheep on a love lovely : And ever he sighed and made moan , and cried out pitifully , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and knows not what's become of me : And then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her maid anon , Go fetch me hither the shepherd's boy , why makes he all this moan ? But when he came before the Lady , he was not to learn his courtesy , Where wast thou born thou bonny child for whose sake makest thou all this moan My dearest friend , Lady he said , is dead many years agon . Tell thou to me thou bonny child , tell me truth and do not lie , Knowest thou not the young Lord of Lorn he is come a wooing unto me : Yes forsooth , says the Child , I know the Lord then verily : The young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy sheep thou bonny Child , and come in service unto me , Yes forsooth , then said the child at your bidding will I be , When the Steward looked upon the child , he bewailed him villaniously , Where wast thou born thou vagabond , or where is thy Country ? Would down , would down , said the Lady , she called the steward then presently Without you bear him more good will , you get no love of me . Then bespoke the false steward , unto the Lady hastily : At Aberdine beyond the Seas , his father robbed thousands three . B Ut then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her father courteously : Saying , I have found a bonny Child , my chamberlain to be : Not so , not so , then said the Duke , for so it may not be : For the young Lord of Lorn that comes a wooing will think no good of thee and me . When the Duke had looked upon the Child he seemed so pleasant to the eye ; Child because thou lovest horses well , my groom of Stable thou shalt be . The Child plied the Horses well , a twelvemonth to and end , He was so courteous and so true every man become his friend : He led a fair Gelding to the water , where he might drink verily , The Gelding up with his head and hit the Child above the eye : Woe worth the horse , then said the Child that ever mare foled thee , Thou little knowest what thou hast done thou hast stricken a Lord of high degree The Dukes daughter was in her Garden green she herd the child make great moan , She ran to the child all weeping ; and left her Maidens all alone : Sing on thy Song thou bonny child , I will release thee of thy pain I have made and oath Lady he said , I dare not tell my tale again . Tell the horse thy tale thou bonny child , and so thy Oath shall saved be , But when he told the Horse his tale the Lady wept most tenderly . I'll do for thee my bonny Child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake my bonny child , I'll put my wedding off months three . The Lady did write a letter then , full pitifully with her own hand : She sent it to the Lord of Lorn , whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland : But when the Lord had read the Letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my Child in such a far country . The old Lord called up his Merry men and all that he gave Cloth and Fee ; With Seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he : The wind served and they did sail so far into france Land , They were aware of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters staff in his hand . The Lords they moved hat and hand , the Servingmen fell on their knee : What folks be yonder , said the Steward that makes the Porter courtesy : Thou are a false thief , quod the Lord of Lorn no longer might I bear with thee : By the law of France thou shalt be judged , whither it be to live or die . A quest of Lords there chosen was , to bench they come hastily : But when the Quest was ended , the false steward must die . First they did him half Hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling led and then was sodden breast and bone . And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn with many other Lords more , Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'll have a marriage before we go : These Children both they did rejoice to hear the Lord his tale so ended : They had rather to day then to morrow so he would not be offended . But when the wedding ended was , there was delicate dainty cheer , I'll tell you how long the wedding did last full three quarters of a year . Such a banquet there was wrought the like was never seen , The King of France brought with him then a hundred Tun of good read Wine : Five set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested night nor day , Also Italians there did sing , full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd how troubles great unto successive joys did turn ; And hap news among the rest unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , how mischief once they do pretend , For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . itians were to be seen , that never rested night nor day , Also Italians there did sing , full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd how troubles great unto successive joys did turn ; And hap news among the rest unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , how mischief once they do pretend , For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 