And Excellent Ballad , entitled , The Constancy SUSANNA . To and excellent New Tune . TO Here was a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame , He took to wife afair woman Susanna was she called by name ; A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should not we of her learn thus , to live Godly ? Vrtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story you may read , was well brought up in Moses law . Her parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should not we then talk of this Lady ? That year two Judges there were made which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade who was Susana's husband then : Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came for this Lady . Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Where as Susanna commonly , her self did daily there solace : And that these Elders soon espied , Lady , Lady , And privately themselves did hide for that Lady . Her chaste and constant life was tried , by these Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to would [ we ] this Lady all alone . In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone her self did wash her fair body . The Elders came to her anon & amp ; thus they said fair Dame good speed The doors are fast the Maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed , For we are men of no mistrust : Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady . If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid this thing ? Therefore consent and to us turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs and said alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a cause ; shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do not , Lady , Lady , It is my death right well I wot , Oh true Lady . Better it were for me to fallen into your hands and be guiltless , Then that I should consent at all , to this your shameful wickedness : And even with that ( where as she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud . pitifully . TO Hese Elders does likewise again against S usanna aloud they cried , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they thought to hide , Unto her friends they then her brought , Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life was sought of that Lady . On the morrow she was brought forth before the people for to stand , That they might hear & amp ; know the truth , how these two Elders Susanna found The Elders swore and thus did say , Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with this Lady . Judgement there was for one offence , Susanna causeless she must die , These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die , Susanna's friends that stood her by , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go , Then unto him that is so just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him they cry . [ TO ] he Lord her voice herd and beheld the Daughters cry of Israel ; His spirit he raised in a child , whose name was called young Daniel , Who cried aloud where as he stood , Lady , Lady , [ I ] am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady . Are you such fools quoth Daniel then ? in Judgement you have not done well Nor yet the right way have you gone to judge the daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn a gain , for that Lady . And when to judgemet they were set he called for these wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one fpom th'other then : He asked the first where he did see , that fair Lady ? He said under a Mulberry tree , who lied falsely . Thou liest ( said Daniel ) on thy head ; thy sentence is before the Lord , He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that bore record , To see how they two did agree , Lady , Lady , He said under a Pomgranate tree , who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Mesenger of the Lord , Stands waiting at the Door , even to cut thee with a sword : And even with that the multitude aloud did cry , Give thanks to God and so conclude ; for this Lady . They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They did as with their neighbour then , by Moses Law were put to Death : She innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . Printed for J Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passi [ nger ] And Excellent Ballad , entitled , The Constancy SUSANNA . To and excellent New Tune . TO Here was a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame , He took to wife afair woman Susanna was she called by name ; A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should not we of her learn thus , to live Godly ? Vrtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story you may read , was well brought up in Moses law . Her parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should not we then talk of this Lady ? That year two Judges there were made which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade who was Susana's husband then : Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came for this Lady . Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Where as Susanna commonly , her self did daily there solace : And that these Elders soon espied , Lady , Lady , And privately themselves did hide for that Lady . Her chaste and constant life was tried , by these Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to would [ we ] this Lady all alone . In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone her self did wash her fair body . The Elders came to her anon & amp ; thus they said fair Dame good speed The doors are fast the Maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed , For we are men of no mistrust : Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady . If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid this thing ? Therefore consent and to us turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs and said alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a cause ; shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do not , Lady , Lady , It is my death right well I wot , Oh true Lady . Better it were for me to fallen into your hands and be guiltless , Then that I should consent at all , to this your shameful wickedness : And even with that ( where as she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud . pitifully . TO Hese Elders does likewise again against S usanna aloud they cried , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they thought to hide , Unto her friends they then her brought , Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life was sought of that Lady . On the morrow she was brought forth before the people for to stand , That they might hear & amp ; know the truth , how these two Elders Susanna found The Elders swore and thus did say , Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with this Lady . Judgement there was for one offence , Susanna causeless she must die , These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die , Susanna's friends that stood her by , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go , Then unto him that is so just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him they cry . [ TO ] he Lord her voice herd and beheld the Daughters cry of Israel ; His spirit he raised in a child , whose name was called young Daniel , Who cried aloud where as he stood , Lady , Lady , [ I ] am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady . Are you such fools quoth Daniel then ? in Judgement you have not done well Nor yet the right way have you gone to judge the daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn a gain , for that Lady . And when to judgemet they were set he called for these wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one fpom th'other then : He asked the first where he did see , that fair Lady ? He said under a Mulberry tree , who lied falsely . Thou liest ( said Daniel ) on thy head ; thy sentence is before the Lord , He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that bore record , To see how they two did agree , Lady , Lady , He said under a Pomgranate tree , who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Mesenger of the Lord , Stands waiting at the Door , even to cut thee with a sword : And even with that the multitude aloud did cry , Give thanks to God and so conclude ; for this Lady . They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They did as with their neighbour then , by Moses Law were put to Death : She innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . Printed for J Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passi [ nger ] 