The Norfolk Gentleman his last Will and Testament . Who Committed the keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God plagued him for it . The Tune Rogero . N Owe ponder well you parents dear , these words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to light : A Gentleman of good account , in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose wealth and riches did surmount , most men of his estate . Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His Wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one grave : No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they lived , in love they died , and left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young then he , and made of beauty's mould : The Father left his little Son , as plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And to his little Daughter Jane two hundred pound in gold , To be paid down on marriage day which might not be controlled : But if the Children chance to die , ever they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , for so the Will did run . Now Brother ( said the dying man ) look to my children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friends else I have here : To God and you I do commend , my children night and day , A little while be sure we have , within this world to stay . You must be Father and Mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when I am dead and gone : With that bespoke their Mother dear , Oh brother kind ( quoth she ) You are the man must bring my babes , to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard : With lips as cold as any stone , he kissed the children small , God bless you both my children dear , with that the tears did fallen . These speeches then their brother spoke , to this sick couple there , The keeping of your children dear , sweet sister do not fear : God never prosper me nor mine , nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , when you are laid in grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , the Children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , and much of them he makes ; He had not kept these pretty babes , a twelve month and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , to make them both away . He bargained with two Ruffians rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the children young and slay them in a wood : And told his wife and all he had , he did the Children send , To be brought up in far London , with one that was his friend A Way then went these pretty babes , rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mind , they should on Cockhorse ride : They prate and prattle pleasantly : as they road on the Way , To those that should their Butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , made Murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , full soar they did repent : Yet one of them more hard of heart , did vow to do his charge , Because the Wretch that hired him , had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , so here they fell at strife , With one another they did fight about the Children's life : And he that was of mildest mood , did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , where babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hand , when tears stood in their eye , And had them come and go with him , and look they did not cry : And two long miles he led them thus , while they for bred complain , Stay here , quoth he i'll bring you bred , when I do come again . These pretty Babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , approaching from the Town : Their pretty lips with blackberries , were all besmeared and died , And when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cried . Thus wandered these two pretty babes , till Death did end their grief In one another's Arms they died , as babes wanting relief : No burial these pretty babes of any man receives , Till Robin-Red-Breast painfully , did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy Wrath of God , upon their Uncle fell , Yea fearful Fiends did haunt his house , his conscience felt and Hell : His barns were fired , his goods consume ' [ worser ] his Lands were barren made , His cattle died within the field , and nothing with him stayed . And in the Voyage of Portugal , two of his sons did die , And to conclude , himself was brought , unto much misery : He pawned and mortgaged all his Land , ever seaven years came about , And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand , these Children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judged to die as was Gods blessed will : Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed , Their Uncle died while he for debt , did long in prison rest . All you that be Executors made , and overseers eke , Of Children that be fatherless , and infants mild and meek : Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , lest God with such like misery , your wicked minds requite . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Norfolk Gentleman his last Will and Testament . Who Committed the keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God plagued him for it . The Tune Rogero . N Owe ponder well you parents dear , these words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to light : A Gentleman of good account , in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose wealth and riches did surmount , most men of his estate . Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His Wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one grave : No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they lived , in love they died , and left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young then he , and made of beauty's mould : The Father left his little Son , as plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And to his little Daughter Jane two hundred pound in gold , To be paid down on marriage day which might not be controlled : But if the Children chance to die , ever they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , for so the Will did run . Now Brother ( said the dying man ) look to my children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friends else I have here : To God and you I do commend , my children night and day , A little while be sure we have , within this world to stay . You must be Father and Mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when I am dead and gone : With that bespoke their Mother dear , Oh brother kind ( quoth she ) You are the man must bring my babes , to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard : With lips as cold as any stone , he kissed the children small , God bless you both my children dear , with that the tears did fallen . These speeches then their brother spoke , to this sick couple there , The keeping of your children dear , sweet sister do not fear : God never prosper me nor mine , nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , when you are laid in grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , the Children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , and much of them he makes ; He had not kept these pretty babes , a twelve month and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , to make them both away . He bargained with two Ruffians rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the children young and slay them in a wood : And told his wife and all he had , he did the Children send , To be brought up in far London , with one that was his friend A Way then went these pretty babes , rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mind , they should on Cockhorse ride : They prate and prattle pleasantly : as they road on the Way , To those that should their Butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , made Murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , full soar they did repent : Yet one of them more hard of heart , did vow to do his charge , Because the Wretch that hired him , had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , so here they fell at strife , With one another they did fight about the Children's life : And he that was of mildest mood , did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , where babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hand , when tears stood in their eye , And had them come and go with him , and look they did not cry : And two long miles he led them thus , while they for bred complain , Stay here , quoth he i'll bring you bred , when I do come again . These pretty Babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , approaching from the Town : Their pretty lips with blackberries , were all besmeared and died , And when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cried . Thus wandered these two pretty babes , till Death did end their grief In one another's Arms they died , as babes wanting relief : No burial these pretty babes of any man receives , Till Robin-Red-Breast painfully , did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy Wrath of God , upon their Uncle fell , Yea fearful Fiends did haunt his house , his conscience felt and Hell : His barns were fired , his goods consume ' [ worser ] his Lands were barren made , His cattle died within the field , and nothing with him stayed . And in the Voyage of Portugal , two of his sons did die , And to conclude , himself was brought , unto much misery : He pawned and mortgaged all his Land , ever seaven years came about , And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand , these Children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judged to die as was Gods blessed will : Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed , Their Uncle died while he for debt , did long in prison rest . All you that be Executors made , and overseers eke , Of Children that be fatherless , and infants mild and meek : Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , lest God with such like misery , your wicked minds requite . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 