The Merchant's Daughter of Bristow . The Tune is , The Maidens Joy . B Ehold the Touchstone of true love , Maudlin the Merchant's daughter of Bristow town Whose firm affection nothing could move , Her favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by , Which many years had born this Maiden great good will , She loved him so faithfully , But all her friends withstood it still . The youngman now perceiving well , He could not get nor win the favour of her friends The force of sorrow to expel , And view strange Countries he intends : And now to take his last farewell Of his true Love , his fair and constant Maudlin , With Music sweet that did excel , He played under her window then . Farewell ( quoth he ) mine own true love , Farewell my deer & amp ; chiefest treasure of my heart Through fortune spite that false did prove , I am enforced from thee to part . Into the Land of Italy : There will I wail & amp ; weary out my Life in woe , Seeing my true Love is kept from me , I hold my Life a mortal foe : Fair Bristow Town therefore adieu , For Padua shall be my habitation now , Although my Love does rest in thee , To whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears thus did he sing , With sighs & amp ; sobs descending from his heart full soar , He said when he his hands did wring , Farewell sweet Love for evermore . Fair Maudlin from a window high , Beholding her true Love with music where he stood , But not a Word she did reply , Fearing her Parents angry mood . In tears she spent that woeful night , Wishing her self , though naked , with her faithful friend , She blames her friends and fortune's spite : That wrought her love such luckless end : A [ n ] worser in her heart she made a vow , Clean to forsake her Country and her kindred all , And for to follow her true love , To abide all ochance that might befall . The night is gone , and the day is come , And in the morning very early did she rise , She gets her down into a lower room , Where sundry Seamen she espies : A gallant Master among them all , The Master of a great and goodly ship was he , Who there was waiting in the Hall , To speak with her Father if it might be . She kindly takes him by the hand , Good sir , said she , & amp ; would thou speak with any here Quoth he , fair Maid , and therefore I do stand , Then gentle sir , I pray draw near : Into a pleasant Parlour by , does hand in hand she brings the seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteously , She thus to him did make her moan She falls upon her bent knee , [ Good sir , she said , now pity you a maidens woe , ] And prove a faithful friend to me , That I to you my grief may show : Sith you repose your trust he said , In me , who am unknown & amp ; eke a stranger here : Be you assured most proper Maid , Most faithul still I will appear : I have a Brother , then ( quoth she ) Whom as my Life I Love & amp ; favour tenderly , In Padua alas is he , Full sick God wot and like to die . Full fain I would my Brother see , But that my father will not yield to let me go , Therefore good sir be good to me , And unto me this favour show : Some ship-bois garment bring to me , That I disguised may go unknown , And unto Sea i'll go with thee , If thus much favour might be shown . Fair Maid ( quoth he ) take here my hand , I will fulfil each thing that you desire , And set you safe in that same Land , And in the place that you require . She gave to him a tender kiss ; And says to him , your servant Master will And prove your faithful friend for this , Sweet Master then forget not me : This done as thy had both agreed , Soon after that before the break of day He brings her garment then with speed , Therein her self she did array . And ever her Father did arise She meets her Master as he walked in the Hall She did attend on him likewise , Until her Father did him call . But ever the Merchant made and end Of all his weighty matters all His wife came weeping in with speed Saying our Daughters gone away The Merchant then amazed in mind Yonder vile wretch enticed away my child ( quod she [ ) ] But I well wot I shall him find At Padua in Italy : With that bespoke the Master brave Worshipful Merchant thither goes this Youth And any thing that you would crave He will perform , and write the truth Sweet youth ( quod he ) if it be so Bear me a letter to the English there And gold on thee I will bestow , My Daughters welfare I do fear Her Mother took her by the hand Fair youth ( quod she ) if ever thou dost my daughter s [ ee ] Let me soon thereof undertand And there is twenty Crowns for thee Thus through the daughters strange disguise Her Mother knew not when she spoke unto her Then after he Master straight she hies Taking her leave with countenance Mild Thus to the Sea sweet Maudlin is gone With her gentle Master , God send them [ a merry wind ] Where we a while must let them alone Till you the second part do find . W Elcome sweet Maudlin from the Seas , Where bitter storms & amp ; tempests do arise The pleasant banks of Italy , You may behold with mortal eyes ; Thanks gentle Master then said she , A faithful Friend in sorrow thou has been , If forutne once do smile on me , My gentle heart shall soon be seen , Blessed be the land that feeds my Love , Blessed be the place whereas his person does abide , No trial will I stick to prove . Where by my true Love may be tried : Now will I walk with joyful heart , To view the Town whereas my darling does re-main And seek him out in every part , Until his sighed I do obtain ; And I , quoth he , will not forsake Sweet Maudlin in her sorrows up and down , In wealth or woe thy part I'll take , And bring the safe to Padua Town : And after many weary steps , In Padua they safe arrived at the last , For very joy her heart it leaps , She thinks not on her sorrows past , Condemned he was to die alas , Except he would from his Religion turn , But rather than he would to Mass , In fiery flames he vowed to burn . Now does sweet Maudlin weep and wail , Her joy is turned to weeping sorrow , grief & amp ; care , For nothing could her plaints prevail , For death alone must be his share . She walks under the Prison walls , Where her true love did lie & amp ; languish in distress Then woefully for food he calls , When hunger did his heart oppress . He sighs and sobs and makes great moan , Farewell sweetheart for evermore , And all my friends that have me known , In Bristow Town with wealth and store . But most of all , farewell , quoth he , My own sweet M audlin whom I left behind For never more thou shalt me see Woe to thy father most unkind : How well I were if thou wertenberg here , With thy fair hands to close these my wretched eyes My torments easy would appear , My soul with joy would scale the skies . When maudlin herd her Lovers moan , Her eyes with tears , her heart with sorrow filled was , To speak with him no means was known Such grievious doom did on him pass . Then she put off her Lads attire , Her maidens weed upon her back she seemly set , To the Judges house she did inquire , And there she did a service get : She did her duty there so well , And eke so prudently she did her self behave , With her in lover her master fell , His servants favour he does crave . M audlin , quoth he , my hearts delight , To whom my heart in affection is tied , Breed not my death through thy despite , A faithful friend thous shalt me find . O grant me thy love fair maid , quoth he , And at my hands-disire what thou canst devise ; And I will grant it unto thee , Whereby thy credit may arise , I have a Brother , Sir said she For h [ is religion is now condemnde to die ; ] In loathsome Prison he is cast , Oppressed with grief and misery : Grant me my brother's Life ( she said ) And now to you my Love & amp ; liking will I give : That may not be ( quoth he ) fair Maid ; Except he turn he cannot live : And English Fryer there is ( she said ) Of learning great and passing pure of life , Let him to my brother be sent , And he will finish soon the strife : Her Master granted her request , The Mariner in Friars weeds she did array . And to her love that lay distressed She did a Letter soon convey , When he had read these gentle lines , His heart was ravished with pleasant joy , Where now she is full well he knew , The Fryer likewise was not coy ; But did declare to him at large , The enterprise his Love for him had taken in hand , The young manned did the Fryer charge , His Love should The Merchant's Daughter of Bristow . The Tune is , The Maidens Joy . B Ehold the Touchstone of true love , Maudlin the Merchant's daughter of Bristow town Whose firm affection nothing could move , Her favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by , Which many years had born this Maiden great good will , She loved him so faithfully , But all her friends withstood it still . The youngman now perceiving well , He could not get nor win the favour of her friends The force of sorrow to expel , And view strange Countries he intends : And now to take his last farewell Of his true Love , his fair and constant Maudlin , With Music sweet that did excel , He played under her window then . Farewell ( quoth he ) mine own true love , Farewell my deer & amp ; chiefest treasure of my heart Through fortune spite that false did prove , I am enforced from thee to part . Into the Land of Italy : There will I wail & amp ; weary out my Life in woe , Seeing my true Love is kept from me , I hold my Life a mortal foe : Fair Bristow Town therefore adieu , For Padua shall be my habitation now , Although my Love does rest in thee , To whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears thus did he sing , With sighs & amp ; sobs descending from his heart full soar , He said when he his hands did wring , Farewell sweet Love for evermore . Fair Maudlin from a window high , Beholding her true Love with music where he stood , But not a Word she did reply , Fearing her Parents angry mood . In tears she spent that woeful night , Wishing her self , though naked , with her faithful friend , She blames her friends and fortune's spite : That wrought her love such luckless end : A [ n ] worser in her heart she made a vow , Clean to forsake her Country and her kindred all , And for to follow her true love , To abide all ochance that might befall . The night is gone , and the day is come , And in the morning very early did she rise , She gets her down into a lower room , Where sundry Seamen she espies : A gallant Master among them all , The Master of a great and goodly ship was he , Who there was waiting in the Hall , To speak with her Father if it might be . She kindly takes him by the hand , Good sir , said she , & amp ; would thou speak with any here Quoth he , fair Maid , and therefore I do stand , Then gentle sir , I pray draw near : Into a pleasant Parlour by , does hand in hand she brings the seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteously , She thus to him did make her moan She falls upon her bent knee , [ Good sir , she said , now pity you a maidens woe , ] And prove a faithful friend to me , That I to you my grief may show : Sith you repose your trust he said , In me , who am unknown & amp ; eke a stranger here : Be you assured most proper Maid , Most faithul still I will appear : I have a Brother , then ( quoth she ) Whom as my Life I Love & amp ; favour tenderly , In Padua alas is he , Full sick God wot and like to die . Full fain I would my Brother see , But that my father will not yield to let me go , Therefore good sir be good to me , And unto me this favour show : Some ship-bois garment bring to me , That I disguised may go unknown , And unto Sea i'll go with thee , If thus much favour might be shown . Fair Maid ( quoth he ) take here my hand , I will fulfil each thing that you desire , And set you safe in that same Land , And in the place that you require . She gave to him a tender kiss ; And says to him , your servant Master will And prove your faithful friend for this , Sweet Master then forget not me : This done as thy had both agreed , Soon after that before the break of day He brings her garment then with speed , Therein her self she did array . And ever her Father did arise She meets her Master as he walked in the Hall She did attend on him likewise , Until her Father did him call . But ever the Merchant made and end Of all his weighty matters all His wife came weeping in with speed Saying our Daughters gone away The Merchant then amazed in mind Yonder vile wretch enticed away my child ( quod she [ ) ] But I well wot I shall him find At Padua in Italy : With that bespoke the Master brave Worshipful Merchant thither goes this Youth And any thing that you would crave He will perform , and write the truth Sweet youth ( quod he ) if it be so Bear me a letter to the English there And gold on thee I will bestow , My Daughters welfare I do fear Her Mother took her by the hand Fair youth ( quod she ) if ever thou dost my daughter s [ ee ] Let me soon thereof undertand And there is twenty Crowns for thee Thus through the daughters strange disguise Her Mother knew not when she spoke unto her Then after he Master straight she hies Taking her leave with countenance Mild Thus to the Sea sweet Maudlin is gone With her gentle Master , God send them [ a merry wind ] Where we a while must let them alone Till you the second part do find . W Elcome sweet Maudlin from the Seas , Where bitter storms & amp ; tempests do arise The pleasant banks of Italy , You may behold with mortal eyes ; Thanks gentle Master then said she , A faithful Friend in sorrow thou has been , If forutne once do smile on me , My gentle heart shall soon be seen , Blessed be the land that feeds my Love , Blessed be the place whereas his person does abide , No trial will I stick to prove . Where by my true Love may be tried : Now will I walk with joyful heart , To view the Town whereas my darling does re-main And seek him out in every part , Until his sighed I do obtain ; And I , quoth he , will not forsake Sweet Maudlin in her sorrows up and down , In wealth or woe thy part I'll take , And bring the safe to Padua Town : And after many weary steps , In Padua they safe arrived at the last , For very joy her heart it leaps , She thinks not on her sorrows past , Condemned he was to die alas , Except he would from his Religion turn , But rather than he would to Mass , In fiery flames he vowed to burn . Now does sweet Maudlin weep and wail , Her joy is turned to weeping sorrow , grief & amp ; care , For nothing could her plaints prevail , For death alone must be his share . She walks under the Prison walls , Where her true love did lie & amp ; languish in distress Then woefully for food he calls , When hunger did his heart oppress . He sighs and sobs and makes great moan , Farewell sweetheart for evermore , And all my friends that have me known , In Bristow Town with wealth and store . But most of all , farewell , quoth he , My own sweet M audlin whom I left behind For never more thou shalt me see Woe to thy father most unkind : How well I were if thou wertenberg here , With thy fair hands to close these my wretched eyes My torments easy would appear , My soul with joy would scale the skies . When maudlin herd her Lovers moan , Her eyes with tears , her heart with sorrow filled was , To speak with him no means was known Such grievious doom did on him pass . Then she put off her Lads attire , Her maidens weed upon her back she seemly set , To the Judges house she did inquire , And there she did a service get : She did her duty there so well , And eke so prudently she did her self behave , With her in lover her master fell , His servants favour he does crave . M audlin , quoth he , my hearts delight , To whom my heart in affection is tied , Breed not my death through thy despite , A faithful friend thous shalt me find . O grant me thy love fair maid , quoth he , And at my hands-disire what thou canst devise ; And I will grant it unto thee , Whereby thy credit may arise , I have a Brother , Sir said she For h [ is religion is now condemnde to die ; ] In loathsome Prison he is cast , Oppressed with grief and misery : Grant me my brother's Life ( she said ) And now to you my Love & amp ; liking will I give : That may not be ( quoth he ) fair Maid ; Except he turn he cannot live : And English Fryer there is ( she said ) Of learning great and passing pure of life , Let him to my brother be sent , And he will finish soon the strife : Her Master granted her request , The Mariner in Friars weeds she did array . And to her love that lay distressed She did a Letter soon convey , When he had read these gentle lines , His heart was ravished with pleasant joy , Where now she is full well he knew , The Fryer likewise was not coy ; But did declare to him at large , The enterprise his Love for him had taken in hand , The young manned did the Fryer charge , His Love should straight depart the Land. Here is no place for her ( he said ) But woeful death and danger of her Life , Professing truth I was betrayed , And fearful flames must end the strife . For e'r I will my faith deny , And swear myself to follow Damned Antichrist I'll yield my body for to die , To live in heaven with the highest . O Sir the gentle Fryer said Consent thereto , and end the strife , A woeful match ( quoth he ) is made , Where Christ is left to win a wife . When she had used all means she might , To save his Life , and yet all would not be , Then of the Judge she claimed her right , To die the death as well as he . When no persuasions could prevail , Nor change her mind in any thing that she had said She was with him condemned to die , And for them both one fire was made . Yea arm in arm most joyfully , These Lovers twain unto the fire did go , The mariner most faithfully , Was likewise partner of their woe . But when the Judges understood , The faithful friendship did in them remain , They saved their lives , and afterwards To England sent them back again . Now was their sorrow turned to joy , And faithful Lovers have their hearts desire , Their pains so well they did employ , God granted that they did desire . And when they did to England come , And in merry Bristow arrived at the last , Great joy there was to all and some , That herd the dangers they had passed : Her Father he was dead God wot , And eke her Mother was joyful at her sighed , Their wishes she denied not , But wedded them to hearts delight : Her gentle Master she desired , To be her father , and at Church to give her then , At was fulfilled as she required , To the joys of all good men . Printed for J. C. W. T. & amp ; T. P . straight depart the Land. Here is no place for her ( he said ) But woeful death and danger of her Life , Professing truth I was betrayed , And fearful flames must end the strife . For e'r I will my faith deny , And swear myself to follow Damned Antichrist I'll yield my body for to die , To live in heaven with the highest . O Sir the gentle Fryer said Consent thereto , and end the strife , A woeful match ( quoth he ) is made , Where Christ is left to win a wife . When she had used all means she might , To save his Life , and yet all would not be , Then of the Judge she claimed her right , To die the death as well as he . When no persuasions could prevail , Nor change her mind in any thing that she had said She was with him condemned to die , And for them both one fire was made . Yea arm in arm most joyfully , These Lovers twain unto the fire did go , The mariner most faithfully , Was likewise partner of their woe . But when the Judges understood , The faithful friendship did in them remain , They saved their lives , and afterwards To England sent them back again . Now was their sorrow turned to joy , And faithful Lovers have their hearts desire , Their pains so well they did employ , God granted that they did desire . And when they did to England come , And in merry Bristow arrived at the last , Great joy there was to all and some , That herd the dangers they had passed : Her Father he was dead God wot , And eke her Mother was joyful at her sighed , Their wishes she denied not , But wedded them to hearts delight : Her gentle Master she desired , To be her father , and at Church to give her then , At was fulfilled as she required , To the joys of all good men . Printed for J. C. W. T. & amp ; T. P. 