The Young-Mans A.B.C. OR Two Dozen of Verses which a Young-Man sent to his Love , who proved unkind ; wrote in the manner of and Alphabet . TO he Tune is , A im not too high . ACcept dear Love these shadows of my grief , And let thy pity send me some relief , A Captive to thy will I must remain , For thou art only she , must ease my pain . BE kind to me , as I am kind to thee , Blast not thy fame , with cruelty to me , But let thy inward parts be like thy face , Beauty in heart adorns the outward face , COnsider how , my service hath been bent Continually to gain thy sweet content , Canst thou my dear , be so obdure to me , Cross unto him that is so true to thee . DEfer no time , to understand my grief , But with some speed , come ease me with relief : Thy beauty rare , hath struck my heart so deep , That all my days , I mean to wail and weep . EXcept thou do some favour to me yield , I shall be slave , with love in Venus field , I am so discontent in mind and heart , That neither means Nor time can cure my smart . FOrget thou not the woe wherein I dwell , My torments do all other griefs excel , Consider well my woeful sable nights And days I spend away , without delights . GRant me thy love , to mitigate my pain , The like thou shalt receive from me again ; So love will we as does the Turtle Dove , Whose firm affection ever constant prove . HAve you respect of this the grief I take , Which out of sleep , does Sometime me awake : In dreams I see that which I most desire ; But waking sets my senses all on fire . IN doleful sort , these words I now relate , Which makes me think , my self unfortunate , To set my heart where I had nought but scorn , Which makes me rue the time that I was born . KIll me not in this desperation deep , To think how I neither eat , nor drink nor sleep , To think of that which I cannot obtain , The which hath near my heart with sorrow slave . LEt tender pity move thy gentle heart And so from thee , my love shall never start , To gain thy Love , i'll venture life and Limb , And for thy sake , the Ocean I will swim . MY life I loath , because my woes increase , Therefore my torments cease , and me release , Then be not harsh , whereas thou shouldst bekind , But for my love let me no hatred find . NEither deny to grant me this request , Nor seek thou not , to work me more unrest , For if thou do , the worst share fallen to thine , The worst can come , ends but one life of mine . O that thou wouldst but now conceive aright , Then would my darkness soon be turned to light My greatest sorrows should then I destroy , And all my grief , and care exchange to joy . PIerce then no deeper , to my bleeding heart , The which is ready now for to depart , He still that loves and is not beloved again , Had better die , then still to live in pain . QUench thou the flames , of this my burning breast , Which for thy sake . no time nor tide can rest , My love to thee hath ever more been true , Therefore the same see still I have from you . REgard my grief , how still it more exceeds , My life is like the Herb , that's spoiled with weeds : among the finest Wheat , the tares do grow , And thou my love hath wrought my overthrow , SWeet love , now take , on me thy friend some care , Regard his grief that still lives in despair Of thy true love , which is more dear then Gold , My griefs are more than numbers can be told . TOo long I have lived , and yet too late repent , For why the Glory of my life is spent ; In loving her , that never did love me , Oh then what days , of pleasure can I see . WOuld I had never lived thy face to have seen , Oh then full happy surely had I been : For never any one , under the Sun , But thou alone , could me this wrong have done . X Thousand times more cruel is thy mind , Then Heathens , Jews , or Turks are in their kind , Or any one that on the earth does go , And woe is me , For I have found it so . YEt if thy mind be so perversely bent That nothing can procure my hearts content Know this from me , that I have learned of late No more to dote on her that does me hate , Z ENOBIA to Tamberlain never was More dear then thou to me , but now alas , I find my toil my sighs and sobs in vain why should I love and not be loved again . & amp ; Now to set a perjod to my woe , If thou wilt have me prithee tell me so ; If otherwise thou meanest thy mind it send Resolve me off or on and there's and end . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. PassingerThe Young-Mans A.B.C. OR Two Dozen of Verses which a Young-Man sent to his Love , who proved unkind ; wrote in the manner of and Alphabet . TO he Tune is , A im not too high . ACcept dear Love these shadows of my grief , And let thy pity send me some relief , A Captive to thy will I must remain , For thou art only she , must ease my pain . BE kind to me , as I am kind to thee , Blast not thy fame , with cruelty to me , But let thy inward parts be like thy face , Beauty in heart adorns the outward face , COnsider how , my service hath been bent Continually to gain thy sweet content , Canst thou my dear , be so obdure to me , Cross unto him that is so true to thee . DEfer no time , to understand my grief , But with some speed , come ease me with relief : Thy beauty rare , hath struck my heart so deep , That all my days , I mean to wail and weep . EXcept thou do some favour to me yield , I shall be slave , with love in Venus field , I am so discontent in mind and heart , That neither means Nor time can cure my smart . FOrget thou not the woe wherein I dwell , My torments do all other griefs excel , Consider well my woeful sable nights And days I spend away , without delights . GRant me thy love , to mitigate my pain , The like thou shalt receive from me again ; So love will we as does the Turtle Dove , Whose firm affection ever constant prove . HAve you respect of this the grief I take , Which out of sleep , does Sometime me awake : In dreams I see that which I most desire ; But waking sets my senses all on fire . IN doleful sort , these words I now relate , Which makes me think , my self unfortunate , To set my heart where I had nought but scorn , Which makes me rue the time that I was born . KIll me not in this desperation deep , To think how I neither eat , nor drink nor sleep , To think of that which I cannot obtain , The which hath near my heart with sorrow slave . LEt tender pity move thy gentle heart And so from thee , my love shall never start , To gain thy Love , i'll venture life and Limb , And for thy sake , the Ocean I will swim . MY life I loath , because my woes increase , Therefore my torments cease , and me release , Then be not harsh , whereas thou shouldst bekind , But for my love let me no hatred find . NEither deny to grant me this request , Nor seek thou not , to work me more unrest , For if thou do , the worst share fallen to thine , The worst can come , ends but one life of mine . O that thou wouldst but now conceive aright , Then would my darkness soon be turned to light My greatest sorrows should then I destroy , And all my grief , and care exchange to joy . PIerce then no deeper , to my bleeding heart , The which is ready now for to depart , He still that loves and is not beloved again , Had better die , then still to live in pain . QUench thou the flames , of this my burning breast , Which for thy sake . no time nor tide can rest , My love to thee hath ever more been true , Therefore the same see still I have from you . REgard my grief , how still it more exceeds , My life is like the Herb , that's spoiled with weeds : among the finest Wheat , the tares do grow , And thou my love hath wrought my overthrow , SWeet love , now take , on me thy friend some care , Regard his grief that still lives in despair Of thy true love , which is more dear then Gold , My griefs are more than numbers can be told . TOo long I have lived , and yet too late repent , For why the Glory of my life is spent ; In loving her , that never did love me , Oh then what days , of pleasure can I see . WOuld I had never lived thy face to have seen , Oh then full happy surely had I been : For never any one , under the Sun , But thou alone , could me this wrong have done . X Thousand times more cruel is thy mind , Then Heathens , Jews , or Turks are in their kind , Or any one that on the earth does go , And woe is me , For I have found it so . YEt if thy mind be so perversely bent That nothing can procure my hearts content Know this from me , that I have learned of late No more to dote on her that does me hate , Z ENOBIA to Tamberlain never was More dear then thou to me , but now alas , I find my toil my sighs and sobs in vain why should I love and not be loved again . & amp ; Now to set a perjod to my woe , If thou wilt have me prithee tell me so ; If otherwise thou meanest thy mind it send Resolve me off or on and there's and end . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger 