A Lamentable Ballad of the Ladies Fallen . Tune is , In Peascod time , M Ark well my heavy doleful Tale , you Loyal Lovers all , And heedfully bear in your breast a gallant Ladies fallen : Long was she wooed ever she was wone , to led a wedded life , But folly wrought her overthrow , before she was a wife . Too soon alas she gave consent to yield unto his will , Though he protested to be true , and faithful to her still : She felt her body altered quite , her bright hue waxed pale , Her fair read cheeks turned colour white , her strength began to fail . So that with many a sorrowful sighs , this beauteous Maiden mild , With grievous heart perceived her self to be conceived with Child : She kept it from her father's sighed , as close as close might be , And so put on her silken gown , none might her swelling see . Unto her Lover secretly she did her self bewray , And walking with him hand in hand , these words to him did say : Behold , said she , a Maids distress , my love , brought to thy bow , Behold I go with Child by thee , but none thereof does know . The little Babe springs in my womb to hear the Father's voice , Let it not be a Bastard called , sith I made thee my choice : Come , come , my love , perform thy vow and wed me out of hand , Oh leave me not in this extreme , in grief always to stand . Think on thy former promise made , thy vows and oaths each one , Remember with what bitter tears to me thou madest thy moan : Convey me to some secret place , and marry me with speed , Or , with thy Rapier end my life , ever further shame proceed . Alas my dearest Love , quoth he , my greatest joy on earth , Which way can I convey thee hence without a sudden Death ? Thy friends they be of high degree , and I of mean estate , Full hard it is to get thee forth out of thy Father's gate . Dread not thy self to save my fame , and if thou taken be , My self will step between the Swords , and take the harm on me : So shall I escape Dishonour quite , if so I should be slave , What could they say ? but that true love did work a Ladies Bane . A Nd not fear any further harm , my self will so devise , That I will go away with thee , unseen of mortal eyes : Disguised like some pretty Page , I'll meet thee in the dark , And all alone i'll come to thee , hard by my Father's Park . And there , quoth he , I'll meet my love , if God do lend me life , And this day month without all fail , I will make thee my wife : Then with a sweet and loving kiss , they parted presently , And at their parting brinish tears , stood in each others eye . At length the wished day was come , whereby this lovely Maid , With lovely eyes , and strange attire , for her true lover stayed : When any person she espied , come riding over the plain , She thought it was her own true love , but all her hope's were vain . Then did she weep and soar bewail , her most unhappy state , Then did she speak these woeful words , when succourless she sat : Oh false forsworn and faithless wretch , disloyal to thy love , Hast thou forgotten thy promise made , and wilt thou perjured prove ? A and east thou now forsaken me , in this my great distress , To end my days in open shame , which thou mightest well redress : Woe worth the time I did believe , that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen , the tears of thy false Eyes . And thus with many a sorrowful sighs , homeward she went again , No res [ tO ] came in her watery eyes , she felt such bitter pain . In travel strong she fell that night , with many a bitter throw , What woeful pangs she felt that night , does each good woman know . She called up her waiting Maid , that lay at her Beds-feet , Who musing at her Mistress woe , did strait begin to weep : Weep not , said she , but shut the door , and windows round about , Let none bewail my wretched case , but keep all persons out . O Mistress call your Mother dear , of women you have need , And of some skilful Midwives help , the better you may speed : Call not my Mother for thy life , nor call no women here , Though Midwives help comes now too late , my death I do not fear . With that the Babe sprang in her Womb , no Creature being nigh , And with a sighs that broke her heart , this gallant Dame did die : This living little Infant young , the mother being dead , Resigned his new received breath , to him that had him made . Next morning came her Lover true , affrighted at this news , And he for sorrow slew himself , whom each one did accuse : The mother with the newborn Babe , were both laid in one grave , Their Parents overcome with woo , no joy of them could have . Take heed you dainty Damosels all , of flattering words beware , And of the honour of your name , have you a special care : Too true alas this story is , as many one can tell . By others harms learn to be wise and thou shalt do full well Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Lamentable Ballad of the Ladies Fallen . Tune is , In Peascod time , M Ark well my heavy doleful Tale , you Loyal Lovers all , And heedfully bear in your breast a gallant Ladies fallen : Long was she wooed ever she was wone , to led a wedded life , But folly wrought her overthrow , before she was a wife . Too soon alas she gave consent to yield unto his will , Though he protested to be true , and faithful to her still : She felt her body altered quite , her bright hue waxed pale , Her fair read cheeks turned colour white , her strength began to fail . So that with many a sorrowful sighs , this beauteous Maiden mild , With grievous heart perceived her self to be conceived with Child : She kept it from her father's sighed , as close as close might be , And so put on her silken gown , none might her swelling see . Unto her Lover secretly she did her self bewray , And walking with him hand in hand , these words to him did say : Behold , said she , a Maids distress , my love , brought to thy bow , Behold I go with Child by thee , but none thereof does know . The little Babe springs in my womb to hear the Father's voice , Let it not be a Bastard called , sith I made thee my choice : Come , come , my love , perform thy vow and wed me out of hand , Oh leave me not in this extreme , in grief always to stand . Think on thy former promise made , thy vows and oaths each one , Remember with what bitter tears to me thou madest thy moan : Convey me to some secret place , and marry me with speed , Or , with thy Rapier end my life , ever further shame proceed . Alas my dearest Love , quoth he , my greatest joy on earth , Which way can I convey thee hence without a sudden Death ? Thy friends they be of high degree , and I of mean estate , Full hard it is to get thee forth out of thy Father's gate . Dread not thy self to save my fame , and if thou taken be , My self will step between the Swords , and take the harm on me : So shall I escape Dishonour quite , if so I should be slave , What could they say ? but that true love did work a Ladies Bane . A Nd not fear any further harm , my self will so devise , That I will go away with thee , unseen of mortal eyes : Disguised like some pretty Page , I'll meet thee in the dark , And all alone i'll come to thee , hard by my Father's Park . And there , quoth he , I'll meet my love , if God do lend me life , And this day month without all fail , I will make thee my wife : Then with a sweet and loving kiss , they parted presently , And at their parting brinish tears , stood in each others eye . At length the wished day was come , whereby this lovely Maid , With lovely eyes , and strange attire , for her true lover stayed : When any person she espied , come riding over the plain , She thought it was her own true love , but all her hope's were vain . Then did she weep and soar bewail , her most unhappy state , Then did she speak these woeful words , when succourless she sat : Oh false forsworn and faithless wretch , disloyal to thy love , Hast thou forgotten thy promise made , and wilt thou perjured prove ? A and east thou now forsaken me , in this my great distress , To end my days in open shame , which thou mightest well redress : Woe worth the time I did believe , that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen , the tears of thy false Eyes . And thus with many a sorrowful sighs , homeward she went again , No res [ tO ] came in her watery eyes , she felt such bitter pain . In travel strong she fell that night , with many a bitter throw , What woeful pangs she felt that night , does each good woman know . She called up her waiting Maid , that lay at her Beds-feet , Who musing at her Mistress woe , did strait begin to weep : Weep not , said she , but shut the door , and windows round about , Let none bewail my wretched case , but keep all persons out . O Mistress call your Mother dear , of women you have need , And of some skilful Midwives help , the better you may speed : Call not my Mother for thy life , nor call no women here , Though Midwives help comes now too late , my death I do not fear . With that the Babe sprang in her Womb , no Creature being nigh , And with a sighs that broke her heart , this gallant Dame did die : This living little Infant young , the mother being dead , Resigned his new received breath , to him that had him made . Next morning came her Lover true , affrighted at this news , And he for sorrow slew himself , whom each one did accuse : The mother with the newborn Babe , were both laid in one grave , Their Parents overcome with woo , no joy of them could have . Take heed you dainty Damosels all , of flattering words beware , And of the honour of your name , have you a special care : Too true alas this story is , as many one can tell . By others harms learn to be wise and thou shalt do full well Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 