The shepherd and the King , and of Gillian the shepherd's Wife , with her churlish answer . Being full of mirth and pastime . To the Tune of Flying Fame . I N Elder time there as of Yore , when guides of churlish glee , Were used among our Country Carls , though no such thing now be : The which King Alfred liking well , forsook his stately Court , And in disguise unknown went forth , to see that jovial sport , How Dick and Tom in clouted shoes , and coats of Russet grey , Esteemed themselves more brave then them , that went in Golden Ray ; In garments fit for such a life , the good King Alfred went , All raged and torn as from his back the beggar his clothes had rend . A sword and bucler good and strong , to give Jack Sauce a wray , And on his head instead of a Crown , he wore a Monmouth Cap. Thus coasting thorough Somersetshire , near Newton Court he met , A Shepherd Swain of lusty limb , that up and down did jet : He wore a bonnet of good grey , close buttoned to his chin , And at his back a Leather scrip , with much good meat therein . God speed good Shepherd , quoth the King I come to be thy Guest , To taste of they good victuals here , and drink that's of the best : Thy scrip I know hath cheer good store , what then the Sherherd said ? Thou seemest to be some sturdy thief , and makest me soar afraid . Yet if thou wilt thy dinner win the Sword and Buckler take , And if thou canst into my scrip therewith and entrance make , I tell the roister it hath store , of Beef and Bacon fat , With shieves of barley bred to make [ th ] y chaps to water at : Here stands my bottle , here my bag , if thou canst win them Roister , Against the sword and buckler here my sheephook is my ma [ st ] er . Benedicite now , quoth our good King it never shall be said , That Alfred of the shepherd's hook will stand a whit afraid : So Soundly thus they both fell to't , and giving bang for bang , At every blow the shepherd gave King Alfreds sword cried twang . His buckler proved his chiefest fence for still the shepherd's hook , Was that the which King Alfred could in no good manner brook : At last when they had fought 4 hours , and it grew just midday , And wearied both with right good will desired each others stay . King , truce I cry quoth Alfred then , good shepherd hold thy hand , A sturdier fellow then thy self lives not within this land . Nor a lustier Roister then thou art , the churlish shepherd said , To tell thee plain thy thievish looks , now makes my heart afraid ; Else sure thou are some prodigal which hast consumed thy store And now camest wandering in this place to rob and steal for more : Deem not of me then quoth our King good shepherd in this sort , A Gentleman well known I am in good King Alfreds Court . The Devil thou art , the shepherd said thou goest in rags all torn , Thou rather seemest I think to be some beggar basely born ; But if thou wilt mend thy estate , and here a shepherd be , At night to Gillian my sweet wife thou shalt go home with me . For she's as good a toothless dame as mumbleth on brown bred , Where thou shalt lie in hurden sheets , upon a frest straw bed . Of whig and whey we have good store , and keep good peas straw fires . And now and then good barley Cakes as better days requires . But for my master which is chief , and Lord of Newton Court , He keeps I say , his shepherd's swains in far more braver sort ; We there have curds & amp ; clouted cream of read Cows morning milk , And now and then fine buttered cakes as soft as any silk . Of Beef and raised Bacon store that is most fat and greasy , We have likewise to feed our chaps , and make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my man become , this usage thou shalt have , If not adieu go hang thy self and so farewell Sir Knave . King Alfred hearing of this glee , the churlish shepherd said , Was well content to be his man , so they a bargain made . A penny round the shepherd gave , in earnest of this match , To keep his sheep in field and fold as shepherd's use to watch . His wages shall be full ten groats for service of a year , Yet was it not his use old Lad to hire a man so dear . For did the King himself ( quoth he ) unto my cottage come , He should not for a 12 months pay receive a greater sum . Hereat the bonny King grew blithe to hear the clownish jest , How silly sots as custom is doe discant at the best . But not to spoil the foolish sport he was content good King , To fit the shepherd's humour right in every kind of thing , A sheephook then with patch his dog and Tar-box by his side , The second Part , To the same Tune . H E with his Master jig by jowl , unto old Gillian hied , Into whose sighed no sooner came , whom have you here ( quoth she ) A fellow I doubt will cut our throats , so like a knave looks he . Not so old Dame quod Alfred straight , of me you need not fear , My Master hired me for ten Groats to serve you one whole year : So good dame Gillian grant me leave within your house to stay , For by Saint Ann do what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish usage pleased him still , put him to such proof , That he at night almost choked , within that smoky Roof : But as he sat with smiling cheer , the event of all to see , His dame brought forth a piece of dow which in the fire throws she ; Where lying on the Hearth to bake , by chance the Cake did burn , What canst thou not , thou lout ( quod she ) take pains the same to turn : Thou art more quick to take it out and eat it up half Dow , Then thus to stay tiled be enough , and so thy manners show . But serve me such another trick I'll thwack thee on the snout . Which made the patient King good man of her to stand in doubt , But to be brief to bed they went the good Old Man and his Wife , But never such a Lodging had , King Alfred in his life : For he was laid in white sheeps wool new pulled from tanned fells , And over his head hanged spiders webs as if they had been bells' . Is this the Country guise thought he , then here I will not stay , But hence be gone as soon as breaks , the peeping of next day . The cacklin Hens & amp ; Geese kept roost and parched at his side , Where at the last the watchful Cock , made known the morning tide ; Then up god Alfred with his horn , and blew so long a blast , That made Gillian and his Groom , in bed fust soar aghast . Arise , quoth she we are undone , this night we lodged have . At unawares within our house , a false dissembling knave ; Rise husband , rise , he'l cut our throats he calls for his Mates , Idem give old Will our good Cade lamb , he would depart our gates . But still King Alfred blew his horn , before them more and more , Till that a hundred Lords and Knights , all lighted at the door : Which cried all hail , all hail , good King long have we looked your Grace , And here you find ( my merry men all ) your Sovereign in this place . We shall surely by hanged up both , old Gillian I much fear , The shepherd said for using thus , our good King Alfred here : Oh pardon my Liege , quod Gillian then for my Husband and for me , By these ten bones I never thought , the same that now I see ; And by my book the Shepherd said , and Oath both good and true , Before this time Oh Noble King , I never your Highness knew : Then pardon me and my old Wife , that we may after say , When first you came into our house , it was a happy day . It shall be done said Alfred straight , and Gillian my Old Dame , For this thy churlish using me , deserveth not much blame ; For this thy Country guise I see , to be thus bluntish still , And where the plainest meaning is , remains the smallest ill . And Master lo I tell thee now , for thy low manhood shown A thousand Weathers i'll bestow , upon thee for thy own . And pasture ground as much as will , suffice to feed them all , And this thy Cottage I will change , into a stately Hall . As for the same as duty binds , the Shepherd said good King , A milkwhite Lamb once every year , i'll to your Highness bring . And Gillian my wife likewise , of Wool to make you Coats , Will give you as much at Newyears tide as shall be worth ten groats . And in your priase my Bagpipe shall found sweetly once a year , How Alfred our renowned King most kindly hath been here , Thanks shepherd , thanks , quod he again , the next time I come hither , My Lords with me here in this house will all be merry together . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and Passenger . The shepherd and the King , and of Gillian the shepherd's Wife , with her churlish answer . Being full of mirth and pastime . To the Tune of Flying Fame . I N Elder time there as of Yore , when guides of churlish glee , Were used among our Country Carls , though no such thing now be : The which King Alfred liking well , forsook his stately Court , And in disguise unknown went forth , to see that jovial sport , How Dick and Tom in clouted shoes , and coats of Russet grey , Esteemed themselves more brave then them , that went in Golden Ray ; In garments fit for such a life , the good King Alfred went , All raged and torn as from his back the beggar his clothes had rend . A sword and bucler good and strong , to give Jack Sauce a wray , And on his head instead of a Crown , he wore a Monmouth Cap. Thus coasting thorough Somersetshire , near Newton Court he met , A Shepherd Swain of lusty limb , that up and down did jet : He wore a bonnet of good grey , close buttoned to his chin , And at his back a Leather scrip , with much good meat therein . God speed good Shepherd , quoth the King I come to be thy Guest , To taste of they good victuals here , and drink that's of the best : Thy scrip I know hath cheer good store , what then the Sherherd said ? Thou seemest to be some sturdy thief , and makest me soar afraid . Yet if thou wilt thy dinner win the Sword and Buckler take , And if thou canst into my scrip therewith and entrance make , I tell the roister it hath store , of Beef and Bacon fat , With shieves of barley bred to make [ th ] y chaps to water at : Here stands my bottle , here my bag , if thou canst win them Roister , Against the sword and buckler here my sheephook is my ma [ st ] er . Benedicite now , quoth our good King it never shall be said , That Alfred of the shepherd's hook will stand a whit afraid : So Soundly thus they both fell to't , and giving bang for bang , At every blow the shepherd gave King Alfreds sword cried twang . His buckler proved his chiefest fence for still the shepherd's hook , Was that the which King Alfred could in no good manner brook : At last when they had fought 4 hours , and it grew just midday , And wearied both with right good will desired each others stay . King , truce I cry quoth Alfred then , good shepherd hold thy hand , A sturdier fellow then thy self lives not within this land . Nor a lustier Roister then thou art , the churlish shepherd said , To tell thee plain thy thievish looks , now makes my heart afraid ; Else sure thou are some prodigal which hast consumed thy store And now camest wandering in this place to rob and steal for more : Deem not of me then quoth our King good shepherd in this sort , A Gentleman well known I am in good King Alfreds Court . The Devil thou art , the shepherd said thou goest in rags all torn , Thou rather seemest I think to be some beggar basely born ; But if thou wilt mend thy estate , and here a shepherd be , At night to Gillian my sweet wife thou shalt go home with me . For she's as good a toothless dame as mumbleth on brown bred , Where thou shalt lie in hurden sheets , upon a frest straw bed . Of whig and whey we have good store , and keep good peas straw fires . And now and then good barley Cakes as better days requires . But for my master which is chief , and Lord of Newton Court , He keeps I say , his shepherd's swains in far more braver sort ; We there have curds & amp ; clouted cream of read Cows morning milk , And now and then fine buttered cakes as soft as any silk . Of Beef and raised Bacon store that is most fat and greasy , We have likewise to feed our chaps , and make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my man become , this usage thou shalt have , If not adieu go hang thy self and so farewell Sir Knave . King Alfred hearing of this glee , the churlish shepherd said , Was well content to be his man , so they a bargain made . A penny round the shepherd gave , in earnest of this match , To keep his sheep in field and fold as shepherd's use to watch . His wages shall be full ten groats for service of a year , Yet was it not his use old Lad to hire a man so dear . For did the King himself ( quoth he ) unto my cottage come , He should not for a 12 months pay receive a greater sum . Hereat the bonny King grew blithe to hear the clownish jest , How silly sots as custom is doe discant at the best . But not to spoil the foolish sport he was content good King , To fit the shepherd's humour right in every kind of thing , A sheephook then with patch his dog and Tar-box by his side , The second Part , To the same Tune . H E with his Master jig by jowl , unto old Gillian hied , Into whose sighed no sooner came , whom have you here ( quoth she ) A fellow I doubt will cut our throats , so like a knave looks he . Not so old Dame quod Alfred straight , of me you need not fear , My Master hired me for ten Groats to serve you one whole year : So good dame Gillian grant me leave within your house to stay , For by Saint Ann do what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish usage pleased him still , put him to such proof , That he at night almost choked , within that smoky Roof : But as he sat with smiling cheer , the event of all to see , His dame brought forth a piece of dow which in the fire throws she ; Where lying on the Hearth to bake , by chance the Cake did burn , What canst thou not , thou lout ( quod she ) take pains the same to turn : Thou art more quick to take it out and eat it up half Dow , Then thus to stay tiled be enough , and so thy manners show . But serve me such another trick I'll thwack thee on the snout . Which made the patient King good man of her to stand in doubt , But to be brief to bed they went the good Old Man and his Wife , But never such a Lodging had , King Alfred in his life : For he was laid in white sheeps wool new pulled from tanned fells , And over his head hanged spiders webs as if they had been bells' . Is this the Country guise thought he , then here I will not stay , But hence be gone as soon as breaks , the peeping of next day . The cacklin Hens & amp ; Geese kept roost and parched at his side , Where at the last the watchful Cock , made known the morning tide ; Then up god Alfred with his horn , and blew so long a blast , That made Gillian and his Groom , in bed fust soar aghast . Arise , quoth she we are undone , this night we lodged have . At unawares within our house , a false dissembling knave ; Rise husband , rise , he'l cut our throats he calls for his Mates , Idem give old Will our good Cade lamb , he would depart our gates . But still King Alfred blew his horn , before them more and more , Till that a hundred Lords and Knights , all lighted at the door : Which cried all hail , all hail , good King long have we looked your Grace , And here you find ( my merry men all ) your Sovereign in this place . We shall surely by hanged up both , old Gillian I much fear , The shepherd said for using thus , our good King Alfred here : Oh pardon my Liege , quod Gillian then for my Husband and for me , By these ten bones I never thought , the same that now I see ; And by my book the Shepherd said , and Oath both good and true , Before this time Oh Noble King , I never your Highness knew : Then pardon me and my old Wife , that we may after say , When first you came into our house , it was a happy day . It shall be done said Alfred straight , and Gillian my Old Dame , For this thy churlish using me , deserveth not much blame ; For this thy Country guise I see , to be thus bluntish still , And where the plainest meaning is , remains the smallest ill . And Master lo I tell thee now , for thy low manhood shown A thousand Weathers i'll bestow , upon thee for thy own . And pasture ground as much as will , suffice to feed them all , And this thy Cottage I will change , into a stately Hall . As for the same as duty binds , the Shepherd said good King , A milkwhite Lamb once every year , i'll to your Highness bring . And Gillian my wife likewise , of Wool to make you Coats , Will give you as much at Newyears tide as shall be worth ten groats . And in your priase my Bagpipe shall found sweetly once a year , How Alfred our renowned King most kindly hath been here , Thanks shepherd , thanks , quod he again , the next time I come hither , My Lords with me here in this house will all be merry together . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and Passenger . 