A Pleasant Song of the Valiant Deeds of Chivalry . Achieved by that Noble Knight S ir Guy of Warwick , who for the love of fair Phillis , became a H ermet , and died in a Cave of Craggy Rock , a Mile distant from Warwick . To the Tune of , Was ever Man. W As ever Knight for Ladies sake , so tossed in love , as I Sir Guy , For Phillis fair that Lady bright , as ever man beheld with mortal eye : She gave me leave my self to try , the valiant Knight with shield & amp ; spear , Ever that her love she would grant me , which made me venture far and near . The proud Sir Guy a Baron bold , in deeds of arms the doubtful Knight That every day in England was , with Sword and Spear in field to fight And English-man I was by birth , in faith of Christ , a Christian true , The wicked Laws of Infidels I sought by power to subdue . Two hundred twenty years and odd , after our Saviour Christ his birth , When King Athelston wore the Crown , I lived here upon the earth , Sometime I was of Warwick Earl , and as I said on very truth , A Ladies love did me constrain , to seek strange ventures in my youth . To try my fame by feats of arms in staange and sundry Heathen Lands , Where I achieved for her sake , right dangerous Conquests with my hands , For first I sailed to Normandy , and there I stoutly wone in fight : The Emperor's Daughter of Almany , from many a valiant worthy Knight . Then passed I the Seas of Greece , to help the Emperor to his right , Against the mighty Souldan's host , of puissant Persians for to fight : Where I did slay of Sarazens , and Heathen Pagans many a man , And slew the Souldians Cousin dear , who had to name , Daughty Colbron . Ezkeldered that Famous Knight , to death likewise I did pursue , And Almain King of Tyre also , most tirrable too in fight to view , I went into the Sultans Host , being thither on ambassage sent , And brought away his head we , I having slave him in his Tent. TO Here was a Dragon in the Land. which I also my self did slay , As he a Lion did pursue . most fiercely met me by the way : From thence I passed the Seas of Greece , and came to Pavy Land aright : Where I the Duke of Pavy killed , his hanious Treason to requite , And after came into this Land , towards fair Phillis Lady bright , For love of whom I traveled far , to try my manhood and my might , But when I had espoused her , I stayed with her but forty days , But there I left this Lady fair , and then I went beyond the Seas . All clad in grey in Pilgrim sort , my Voyage from her I did take , Unto that blessed Holy Land , for Jesus Christ my Saviours sake , Where I Earl Jonas did redeem , and all his sons which were fifteen , Who with the cruel Sarazen , in Prison for long time had been . I slew the Giant Amarant , in Battle fiercely hand to hand , And daughty Barknard killed I , the mighty Duke of that same Land : Then I to England came again , and here with Colbron fell I fought , And ugly Giant which the Danes , had for their Champion hither brought , I overcame him in the field , and slew him did right valiantly , Where I the Land did then redeem , from Danish tribute utterly , And afeerward I offered up , the use of weapons solemnly , At Winchester whereas I fought , in sighed of many far and nigh . In Windsor Forrist I did slay , a Boar of passing might and strength , The like in England never was , for hugeness both in breadth and length , Some of his bones in Warwick yet , within the Castle there does lie , One of his Thield bones to this day , hangs in the City of Coventry . On Dunsmoreheath I also slew a monstrous wild and cruel Beast , Called the Don Cow of Dunsmore heath , which many people had oppressed : Some of her bones in Warwick yet , still for a monument does lie : Which unto every lookers view , as wondrous strange they may espy , Another Dragon in the Land , I also did in fight destroy , Which did both man and Beasts oppress , and all the Country soar annoy , And then to Warwick came again , like Pilgrim poor & amp ; was not know [ n ] , And there I lived a hermets life , a mile and more out of the town , Where with my hand I hewed a house [ e ] out of a craggy Rock of stone , And lived like a Palmer poor , within that Cave my self alone : And daily came to beg my food , of Phillis at my Castle Gate . Not known unto my loving wife , who daily mourned for her mate , Till at the last I fell soar sick , yea sick so soar that I must die , I sent to her a Ring of Gold , by which she knew me presently : Then she repaired to the Cave , before that I gave up the Ghost , Her self closed up my Dying eyes , my P hillis fair whom I loved most . Thus dreadful Death did me arrest , to bring my Corpse unto the grave And like a Palmer died I , whereby I thought my Soul to sa [ we ] My body in Warwick yet does lie , though now it be consumed to more [ ld ] My Stature was engraven in stone this present day you may behold . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Pleasant Song of the Valiant Deeds of Chivalry . Achieved by that Noble Knight S ir Guy of Warwick , who for the love of fair Phillis , became a H ermet , and died in a Cave of Craggy Rock , a Mile distant from Warwick . To the Tune of , Was ever Man. W As ever Knight for Ladies sake , so tossed in love , as I Sir Guy , For Phillis fair that Lady bright , as ever man beheld with mortal eye : She gave me leave my self to try , the valiant Knight with shield & amp ; spear , Ever that her love she would grant me , which made me venture far and near . The proud Sir Guy a Baron bold , in deeds of arms the doubtful Knight That every day in England was , with Sword and Spear in field to fight And English-man I was by birth , in faith of Christ , a Christian true , The wicked Laws of Infidels I sought by power to subdue . Two hundred twenty years and odd , after our Saviour Christ his birth , When King Athelston wore the Crown , I lived here upon the earth , Sometime I was of Warwick Earl , and as I said on very truth , A Ladies love did me constrain , to seek strange ventures in my youth . To try my fame by feats of arms in staange and sundry Heathen Lands , Where I achieved for her sake , right dangerous Conquests with my hands , For first I sailed to Normandy , and there I stoutly wone in fight : The Emperor's Daughter of Almany , from many a valiant worthy Knight . Then passed I the Seas of Greece , to help the Emperor to his right , Against the mighty Souldan's host , of puissant Persians for to fight : Where I did slay of Sarazens , and Heathen Pagans many a man , And slew the Souldians Cousin dear , who had to name , Daughty Colbron . Ezkeldered that Famous Knight , to death likewise I did pursue , And Almain King of Tyre also , most tirrable too in fight to view , I went into the Sultans Host , being thither on ambassage sent , And brought away his head we , I having slave him in his Tent. TO Here was a Dragon in the Land. which I also my self did slay , As he a Lion did pursue . most fiercely met me by the way : From thence I passed the Seas of Greece , and came to Pavy Land aright : Where I the Duke of Pavy killed , his hanious Treason to requite , And after came into this Land , towards fair Phillis Lady bright , For love of whom I traveled far , to try my manhood and my might , But when I had espoused her , I stayed with her but forty days , But there I left this Lady fair , and then I went beyond the Seas . All clad in grey in Pilgrim sort , my Voyage from her I did take , Unto that blessed Holy Land , for Jesus Christ my Saviours sake , Where I Earl Jonas did redeem , and all his sons which were fifteen , Who with the cruel Sarazen , in Prison for long time had been . I slew the Giant Amarant , in Battle fiercely hand to hand , And daughty Barknard killed I , the mighty Duke of that same Land : Then I to England came again , and here with Colbron fell I fought , And ugly Giant which the Danes , had for their Champion hither brought , I overcame him in the field , and slew him did right valiantly , Where I the Land did then redeem , from Danish tribute utterly , And afeerward I offered up , the use of weapons solemnly , At Winchester whereas I fought , in sighed of many far and nigh . In Windsor Forrist I did slay , a Boar of passing might and strength , The like in England never was , for hugeness both in breadth and length , Some of his bones in Warwick yet , within the Castle there does lie , One of his Thield bones to this day , hangs in the City of Coventry . On Dunsmoreheath I also slew a monstrous wild and cruel Beast , Called the Don Cow of Dunsmore heath , which many people had oppressed : Some of her bones in Warwick yet , still for a monument does lie : Which unto every lookers view , as wondrous strange they may espy , Another Dragon in the Land , I also did in fight destroy , Which did both man and Beasts oppress , and all the Country soar annoy , And then to Warwick came again , like Pilgrim poor & amp ; was not know [ n ] , And there I lived a hermets life , a mile and more out of the town , Where with my hand I hewed a house [ e ] out of a craggy Rock of stone , And lived like a Palmer poor , within that Cave my self alone : And daily came to beg my food , of Phillis at my Castle Gate . Not known unto my loving wife , who daily mourned for her mate , Till at the last I fell soar sick , yea sick so soar that I must die , I sent to her a Ring of Gold , by which she knew me presently : Then she repaired to the Cave , before that I gave up the Ghost , Her self closed up my Dying eyes , my P hillis fair whom I loved most . Thus dreadful Death did me arrest , to bring my Corpse unto the grave And like a Palmer died I , whereby I thought my Soul to sa [ we ] My body in Warwick yet does lie , though now it be consumed to more [ ld ] My Stature was engraven in stone this present day you may behold . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 