A sweet Sonnet , wherein the Lover exclaimeth against Fortune for the loss of his Ladies favour , almost passed hope to get again , and in the end receives a comfortable answer , and attains his desire , as may here appear . To the Tune of Fortune my Foe . The Lovers complaint for the loss of his Love . F Ortune my foe , why dost thou frown on me And will thy favour never better be ? Wilt thou I say , for ever breed my pain , And wilt thou not restore my joys again ? Fortune hath wrought my grief & amp ; great annoy Fortune hath falsely stolen my love away ; My love and joy , whose sighed did make me glad Such great misfortunes never young man had . Had fortune took my treasure and my store , Fortune had never grieved me half so soar , But taking her whereon my heart did stay , Fortune thereby hath took my life away ; Far worse then death my life I led in woe , With bitter thoughts still tossed too and from . O cruel chance , thou breeder of my pain , Take life , or else restore my love again . In vain I sighs , in vain I wail and weep , In vain mine eyes refrain from quiet sleep , In vain I shed my tears both night and day , In vain my love my sorrows do bewray . My love does not my piteous plaint espy , Nor feels my love what gripping grief I try ; Full well I may false fortune's deeds reprove , Fortune that so unkindly keeps my love . Where shall I seek or search my love to find , When fortune fleets and wavers like the wind , S sometimes aloft , sometime again below , Thus tottering fortune tottereth too and from . Then will I leave my love in fortune's hands , My dearest love in most unconstant bans , A and only serve the sorrows due to me , S orrows hereafter , thou shalt my Mistress be , A and only joy , that sometime conquers Kings , Fortune that rules on earth & amp ; earthly things , S oh that alone I live not in this woe , For many more hath fortune served so . No man alive can fortune's spite withstand , With wisdom , skill , or mighty strength of hand , In midst of mirth she brings bitter Moan , And woe to me that hath her hatred known . If wisdoms eyes had but biind fortune seen , Then had my love , my love for ever beeu ; Then love farewell , though fortune favour thee , No fortune frail shall ever conquer me , The Ladies comfortable and pleasant Answer . A H silly soul , art thou so soar afraid ? Mourn not my dear nor be not so dismayed Fortune cannot withal her power and skill , Enforce my heart to think the any ill , Blame not thy chance , nor envy at thy choice , No cause thou hast to curse , but to rejoice , Fortune shall not thy joy and love deprive , If by my love it may remain alive . Receive therefore thy life again to thee , Thy life and love shall not be lost by me , And while thy heart upon thy life do stay , Fortune shall never steal the same away . Live thou in bliss and banish death to Hell , All careful thoughts see thou from thee expel ; As thou does wish , thy love agrees to be , For proof whereof I come my self to thee . In vain therefore do neither wail nor weep , In vain therefore break not thy quiet sleep , Wast not in vain thy time in sorrow so , For why thy love delights to ease thy woe . Full well thy love thy privy pangs does see , And soon thy love will send to sucker thee : Though well thou mayest false fortune's deeds reprove , Yet cannot fortune keep away thy love . Nor will thy love at fortune's back abide , Whose fickle wheel does often slip aside , And never think that fortune bears sway If virtue watch , and will not her obey , Pluck up thy heart suppressed with brinish tears , Torment me not , but take away thy fears ; Thy Mistress mind brooks no unconstant bans Much less to live in ruing fortune's hands . Though mighty Kings by fortune get the foil , Losing thereby their travel and their toil ; Though fortune be to me a cruel foe , Fortune shall not make me to serve thee so . For fortune's spite thou needest not care a pin , For thou thereby shall neither lose nor win ; If faithful love and favour I do find . My recompense shall not remain behind . Die not in fear , nor live in discontent , Be thou not slave , where never blood was meant Revive again , to faint thou hast no need , The less afraid , the better thou shalt speed , A New Ballad , entitled , The Stout Cripple of Cornwal ; wherein is showed , his Dissolute Life , and deserved death . The Tune is , The Blind Beggar . O F a stout Cripple that kept the Highway , And begged for his living all time of the day . A story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be The Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . He crept on his hands , and knees up and down , In a torn Jacket , and a ragged torn Gown , For he had never a leg to the knee , The Cripple of Cornwel surnamed was he . He was of stomach courageous and stout , For he had no cause to complain of the Gout , To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a staff on his neck most gallant to see . Yea no good fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a purse for to take , His help was as good as any might be , The Cripple of Cornwel surnamed was he . When he upon any service did go , The Crafty young Cripple provided it so : His stool he kept close in and old hollow tree , That stood from the City a mile 2 or three . Thus all the day long he begged for relief , And all the night long he played the false thief , And seven years together this custom kept he , And no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers that went on the way , But unto the Cripple for passege did pay , And every brave Merchant that he did descry , He emptied their purses ever they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both gallant & amp ; bold , Road forth with great plenty of silver and gold ; At Exetor there a purchase to pay , But that the false Cripple his journey did stay : For why the false Cripple herd tidings of late , As he sat for alms at the Nobleman's gate , This is ( quoth the Cripple ) a booty for me , And i'll follow closely , as closely may be . Then to his companions the matter he moved , which their false actions before time had proved they make themselves ready & amp ; deeply they swear The Moneys their own before they come there . Upon his two stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best share it was his full account - All clothed in Canvas down to the ground , He took up his place his mates with him round . Then came the Lord C. wi'h half a score men , Yet little suspecting these thieves in their Den . A and they perceiving them come to their hand , In a dark evening bid them to stand , Deliver thy purse quod the Cripple with speed . For we be good fellows & amp ; thereof have need Not so quod L. Courtney , but this i'll tell you , Win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that the L. Courtney stood in his defence And so did his servants , but e'r they went hence : Two of the true-men were slave in the fight , And four of the thieves were put to the flight . And while for their safeguard they run thus away The jolly bold cripple did hold them in play , A and with his Pikestaff he wounded them so , A s they were unable to run or to go . With fighting the Lord Courtney was out of breath , and most of his servants were wounded to death , Then came other Horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple wos forced to fly at the last . A and over a River that ran there beside , Which was very deep and eighteen foot wide , With his long stafe and stilts leapt he , A and shifted himself in and old hollow tree , Then throughout the city was hue and cry made To have these thieves apprehended and stayed . The Cripple he creeps on his hands & amp ; his knees , A and in the highway great passing he sees , A and as they came riding , he begging does say , Oh give me one penny good master's I pray . A and thus unto Exeter creeps he along , No man suspecting that he had done wrong : A non the Lord Courtney he spies in the street , He comes unto him and kisses his feet ; Saying , God save your honour , & amp ; keep you from ill And from the hand of your enemy still . Amen quod L. Courtney & amp ; therewith threw down Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown . Away went the Cripple and thus he did think , five hundered pound more will make me to drink In vain that hue and cry it was made . They found none of them though the country was laid But this grieved the cripple night & amp ; day , That he so unluckily missed of his prey . Nine hundred pound the CriA sweet Sonnet , wherein the Lover exclaimeth against Fortune for the loss of his Ladies favour , almost passed hope to get again , and in the end receives a comfortable answer , and attains his desire , as may here appear . To the Tune of Fortune my Foe . The Lovers complaint for the loss of his Love . F Ortune my foe , why dost thou frown on me And will thy favour never better be ? Wilt thou I say , for ever breed my pain , And wilt thou not restore my joys again ? Fortune hath wrought my grief & amp ; great annoy Fortune hath falsely stolen my love away ; My love and joy , whose sighed did make me glad Such great misfortunes never young man had . Had fortune took my treasure and my store , Fortune had never grieved me half so soar , But taking her whereon my heart did stay , Fortune thereby hath took my life away ; Far worse then death my life I led in woe , With bitter thoughts still tossed too and from . O cruel chance , thou breeder of my pain , Take life , or else restore my love again . In vain I sighs , in vain I wail and weep , In vain mine eyes refrain from quiet sleep , In vain I shed my tears both night and day , In vain my love my sorrows do bewray . My love does not my piteous plaint espy , Nor feels my love what gripping grief I try ; Full well I may false fortune's deeds reprove , Fortune that so unkindly keeps my love . Where shall I seek or search my love to find , When fortune fleets and wavers like the wind , S sometimes aloft , sometime again below , Thus tottering fortune tottereth too and from . Then will I leave my love in fortune's hands , My dearest love in most unconstant bans , A and only serve the sorrows due to me , S orrows hereafter , thou shalt my Mistress be , A and only joy , that sometime conquers Kings , Fortune that rules on earth & amp ; earthly things , S oh that alone I live not in this woe , For many more hath fortune served so . No man alive can fortune's spite withstand , With wisdom , skill , or mighty strength of hand , In midst of mirth she brings bitter Moan , And woe to me that hath her hatred known . If wisdoms eyes had but biind fortune seen , Then had my love , my love for ever beeu ; Then love farewell , though fortune favour thee , No fortune frail shall ever conquer me , The Ladies comfortable and pleasant Answer . A H silly soul , art thou so soar afraid ? Mourn not my dear nor be not so dismayed Fortune cannot withal her power and skill , Enforce my heart to think the any ill , Blame not thy chance , nor envy at thy choice , No cause thou hast to curse , but to rejoice , Fortune shall not thy joy and love deprive , If by my love it may remain alive . Receive therefore thy life again to thee , Thy life and love shall not be lost by me , And while thy heart upon thy life do stay , Fortune shall never steal the same away . Live thou in bliss and banish death to Hell , All careful thoughts see thou from thee expel ; As thou does wish , thy love agrees to be , For proof whereof I come my self to thee . In vain therefore do neither wail nor weep , In vain therefore break not thy quiet sleep , Wast not in vain thy time in sorrow so , For why thy love delights to ease thy woe . Full well thy love thy privy pangs does see , And soon thy love will send to sucker thee : Though well thou mayest false fortune's deeds reprove , Yet cannot fortune keep away thy love . Nor will thy love at fortune's back abide , Whose fickle wheel does often slip aside , And never think that fortune bears sway If virtue watch , and will not her obey , Pluck up thy heart suppressed with brinish tears , Torment me not , but take away thy fears ; Thy Mistress mind brooks no unconstant bans Much less to live in ruing fortune's hands . Though mighty Kings by fortune get the foil , Losing thereby their travel and their toil ; Though fortune be to me a cruel foe , Fortune shall not make me to serve thee so . For fortune's spite thou needest not care a pin , For thou thereby shall neither lose nor win ; If faithful love and favour I do find . My recompense shall not remain behind . Die not in fear , nor live in discontent , Be thou not slave , where never blood was meant Revive again , to faint thou hast no need , The less afraid , the better thou shalt speed , A New Ballad , entitled , The Stout Cripple of Cornwal ; wherein is showed , his Dissolute Life , and deserved death . The Tune is , The Blind Beggar . O F a stout Cripple that kept the Highway , And begged for his living all time of the day . A story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be The Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . He crept on his hands , and knees up and down , In a torn Jacket , and a ragged torn Gown , For he had never a leg to the knee , The Cripple of Cornwel surnamed was he . He was of stomach courageous and stout , For he had no cause to complain of the Gout , To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a staff on his neck most gallant to see . Yea no good fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a purse for to take , His help was as good as any might be , The Cripple of Cornwel surnamed was he . When he upon any service did go , The Crafty young Cripple provided it so : His stool he kept close in and old hollow tree , That stood from the City a mile 2 or three . Thus all the day long he begged for relief , And all the night long he played the false thief , And seven years together this custom kept he , And no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers that went on the way , But unto the Cripple for passege did pay , And every brave Merchant that he did descry , He emptied their purses ever they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both gallant & amp ; bold , Road forth with great plenty of silver and gold ; At Exetor there a purchase to pay , But that the false Cripple his journey did stay : For why the false Cripple herd tidings of late , As he sat for alms at the Nobleman's gate , This is ( quoth the Cripple ) a booty for me , And i'll follow closely , as closely may be . Then to his companions the matter he moved , which their false actions before time had proved they make themselves ready & amp ; deeply they swear The Moneys their own before they come there . Upon his two stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best share it was his full account - All clothed in Canvas down to the ground , He took up his place his mates with him round . Then came the Lord C. wi'h half a score men , Yet little suspecting these thieves in their Den . A and they perceiving them come to their hand , In a dark evening bid them to stand , Deliver thy purse quod the Cripple with speed . For we be good fellows & amp ; thereof have need Not so quod L. Courtney , but this i'll tell you , Win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that the L. Courtney stood in his defence And so did his servants , but e'r they went hence : Two of the true-men were slave in the fight , And four of the thieves were put to the flight . And while for their safeguard they run thus away The jolly bold cripple did hold them in play , A and with his Pikestaff he wounded them so , A s they were unable to run or to go . With fighting the Lord Courtney was out of breath , and most of his servants were wounded to death , Then came other Horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple wos forced to fly at the last . A and over a River that ran there beside , Which was very deep and eighteen foot wide , With his long stafe and stilts leapt he , A and shifted himself in and old hollow tree , Then throughout the city was hue and cry made To have these thieves apprehended and stayed . The Cripple he creeps on his hands & amp ; his knees , A and in the highway great passing he sees , A and as they came riding , he begging does say , Oh give me one penny good master's I pray . A and thus unto Exeter creeps he along , No man suspecting that he had done wrong : A non the Lord Courtney he spies in the street , He comes unto him and kisses his feet ; Saying , God save your honour , & amp ; keep you from ill And from the hand of your enemy still . Amen quod L. Courtney & amp ; therewith threw down Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown . Away went the Cripple and thus he did think , five hundered pound more will make me to drink In vain that hue and cry it was made . They found none of them though the country was laid But this grieved the cripple night & amp ; day , That he so unluckily missed of his prey . Nine hundred pound the Cripple had god , By begging and thieving so good was his lot ; A thousand pound he would make it up he said , And then he would give over his trade . But as he strived his mind to fulfil , In following his actions so lewd and so ill : A tO last he was taken the law to suffice , Condemned and hanged at Exeter Size , Which made all men amazed to see , That such and impudent Cripple as he , Should venture himself to such actions as they To rob in such sort upon the highway . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . pple had god , By begging and thieving so good was his lot ; A thousand pound he would make it up he said , And then he would give over his trade . But as he strived his mind to fulfil , In following his actions so lewd and so ill : A tO last he was taken the law to suffice , Condemned and hanged at Exeter Size , Which made all men amazed to see , That such and impudent Cripple as he , Should venture himself to such actions as they To rob in such sort upon the highway . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 