A Friends advice : In and excellent Ditty , concerning the variable changes in this World . To a pleasant new Tune . W Hat if a day , or a month , or a year , Crown thy delights with a thousand wished contentings , Cannot the chance of a night or and hour , Cross thy delights , with as many sad tormentings ? Fortune's in their fairest birth , Are but blossoms dying , Wanton pleasures , doting mirth , Are but shadows flying : All our joys are but toys , Idle thoughts deceiving ; None hath power of and hour , In our lives bereaving . What if a smile , or a beck or a look , Feed thy found thoughts , with many a sweet conceiving : May not that smile , or that beck , or that look , Tell thee as well they are but vain deciving ? Why should beauty be so proud , In things of no surmounting ? All her wealth is but a shroud , Of a rich accounting : Then in this repose no bliss , Which is so vain and idle : Beauty's flowers have their hours , Time does hold the bridle . What if the world with allures of her wealth , Raise thy degree to a place of high advancing ? May not the World by a check of that wealth , Put thee again to as low despised chancing ? While the Sun of wealth does shine , Thou shalt have friends plenty : But come want , then they repine , Not one abides of twenty : Wealth and Friends holds and ends , As your fortune's rise and fallen , Up and down , rise and frown , Certain is no state at all . What if a grief , or a strain , or a fit , Pinch thee with pain , or the feeling pangs of sickness : Does not that gripe , or that strain , or that fit , Show thee the form of thy own true perfect likeness ? Health is but a glimpse of joy , Subject to all changes : Mirth is but a silly toy , Which mishap estranges . Tell me then , silly Man , Why art thou so weak of wit , As to be in jeopardy , When thou mayest in quiet fit ? Then if all this have declared thine amiss , Take it from me as a gentle friendly warning ; If thou refuse , and good counsel abuse , Thou mayest hereafter dearly buy thy learning : All is hazard that we have , There is nothing biding , Days of pleasure are like streams , Through fair Meadows gliding , Wealth or woe , time does go , There is no returning , Secret Fates guide our states , Both in mirth and mourning . The Second Part. To the same Tune . M An's but a blast , or a smoke , or a cloud , That in a thought , or a moment is dispersed : Life's but a span , or a tale , or a word , That in a trice , or sudden is rehearsed : Hope's are changed , and thoughts are crossed , Will nor skill prevails , Though we laugh and live at ease , Change of thoughts assaileth , Though a while Fortune smile , And her comforts crowneth , Yet at length fails her strength , And in fine she frowneth . Thus are the joys of a year in and hour , And of a month , in a moment quite expired , And in the night with the word of a noise , Crossed by the day , of and ease our hearts desired : Fairest blossoms soonest fade , Withered , foul , and rotten , And through grief , our greatest joys Quickly are forgotten : Seek not then ( mortal men ) Earthly fleeting pleasure , But with pain strive to gain Heavenly lasting treasure . Earth to the world , as a Man to the earth , Hath but a point , and a point is soon defaced : Flesh to the Soul , as a Flower to the Sun , That in a storm or a tempest is disgraced : Fortune may the Body please , Which is only carnal , But it will the Soul disease , That is still immortal , Earthly joys are but toys , To the Souls election . Worldly grace does deface men divine perfection . Fleshly delights to the earth that is flesh , May be the cause of a thousand sweet contentings , But the defaults of a fleshly desire Brings to the Soul many thousand sad tormentings : Be not proud presum [ c ] jous Man , Sith thou art a point so base , Of the least and lowest Element , Which hath least and lowest place : Mark thy fate , and thy state , Which is only earth and dust , And as grass , which alas Shortly surely perish must . Let not the hope's of and earthly desire , Bar thee the joys of and endless contentation , Nor let not thy eye on the world be so fixed , To hinder thy heart from unfeigned recantation : Be not backward in that course , That may bring thy Soul delight , Though another way may seem Far more pleasant to thy sighed ; Do not go , if he says not That knows the secrets of thy mind , Follow this , thou shalt not miss And endless happiness to find . FINIS . Printed for H. Gosson . A Friends advice : In and excellent Ditty , concerning the variable changes in this World . To a pleasant new Tune . W Hat if a day , or a month , or a year , Crown thy delights with a thousand wished contentings , Cannot the chance of a night or and hour , Cross thy delights , with as many sad tormentings ? Fortune's in their fairest birth , Are but blossoms dying , Wanton pleasures , doting mirth , Are but shadows flying : All our joys are but toys , Idle thoughts deceiving ; None hath power of and hour , In our lives bereaving . What if a smile , or a beck or a look , Feed thy found thoughts , with many a sweet conceiving : May not that smile , or that beck , or that look , Tell thee as well they are but vain deciving ? Why should beauty be so proud , In things of no surmounting ? All her wealth is but a shroud , Of a rich accounting : Then in this repose no bliss , Which is so vain and idle : Beauty's flowers have their hours , Time does hold the bridle . What if the world with allures of her wealth , Raise thy degree to a place of high advancing ? May not the World by a check of that wealth , Put thee again to as low despised chancing ? While the Sun of wealth does shine , Thou shalt have friends plenty : But come want , then they repine , Not one abides of twenty : Wealth and Friends holds and ends , As your fortune's rise and fallen , Up and down , rise and frown , Certain is no state at all . What if a grief , or a strain , or a fit , Pinch thee with pain , or the feeling pangs of sickness : Does not that gripe , or that strain , or that fit , Show thee the form of thy own true perfect likeness ? Health is but a glimpse of joy , Subject to all changes : Mirth is but a silly toy , Which mishap estranges . Tell me then , silly Man , Why art thou so weak of wit , As to be in jeopardy , When thou mayest in quiet fit ? Then if all this have declared thine amiss , Take it from me as a gentle friendly warning ; If thou refuse , and good counsel abuse , Thou mayest hereafter dearly buy thy learning : All is hazard that we have , There is nothing biding , Days of pleasure are like streams , Through fair Meadows gliding , Wealth or woe , time does go , There is no returning , Secret Fates guide our states , Both in mirth and mourning . The Second Part. To the same Tune . M An's but a blast , or a smoke , or a cloud , That in a thought , or a moment is dispersed : Life's but a span , or a tale , or a word , That in a trice , or sudden is rehearsed : Hope's are changed , and thoughts are crossed , Will nor skill prevails , Though we laugh and live at ease , Change of thoughts assaileth , Though a while Fortune smile , And her comforts crowneth , Yet at length fails her strength , And in fine she frowneth . Thus are the joys of a year in and hour , And of a month , in a moment quite expired , And in the night with the word of a noise , Crossed by the day , of and ease our hearts desired : Fairest blossoms soonest fade , Withered , foul , and rotten , And through grief , our greatest joys Quickly are forgotten : Seek not then ( mortal men ) Earthly fleeting pleasure , But with pain strive to gain Heavenly lasting treasure . Earth to the world , as a Man to the earth , Hath but a point , and a point is soon defaced : Flesh to the Soul , as a Flower to the Sun , That in a storm or a tempest is disgraced : Fortune may the Body please , Which is only carnal , But it will the Soul disease , That is still immortal , Earthly joys are but toys , To the Souls election . Worldly grace does deface men divine perfection . Fleshly delights to the earth that is flesh , May be the cause of a thousand sweet contentings , But the defaults of a fleshly desire Brings to the Soul many thousand sad tormentings : Be not proud presum [ c ] jous Man , Sith thou art a point so base , Of the least and lowest Element , Which hath least and lowest place : Mark thy fate , and thy state , Which is only earth and dust , And as grass , which alas Shortly surely perish must . Let not the hope's of and earthly desire , Bar thee the joys of and endless contentation , Nor let not thy eye on the world be so fixed , To hinder thy heart from unfeigned recantation : Be not backward in that course , That may bring thy Soul delight , Though another way may seem Far more pleasant to thy sighed ; Do not go , if he says not That knows the secrets of thy mind , Follow this , thou shalt not miss And endless happiness to find . FINIS . Printed for H. Gosson . 