A most Excellent Ballad of St. George for England , and the Kings Daughter of Egypt , whom he delivere from death , and how he slew a mighty Dragon . To the Tune of [ Flying ] [ F ] ame . O F Hectors deeds did Homer Sing , ; and of the sack of stately Troy , What grief fair Hellen did them bring Which was Sir Paris only joy : And with my pen I must recite , St. Georges deeds ; and English Knight . Against the Sarazens full rude , fought he full long and many a day ; Where many a Giant he subdued , in honour of the Christian way And after many adventures past , To AEgypt land he came at last . And as the Story plain does tell , within that Country there did rest A dreadful Dragon fierce and fell , whereby they were full soar oppressed : Who by his poisoned breath each day , Did many of the City slay The grief thereof did grow so great , throughout the limits of the Land That they their wise men did entreat , to show there cunning out of hand : Which way they might this Dragon ' stroy , That did there country soar annoy . The wise men all before the King , framed this matter incontinent , The dragon none to death might bring by any means they could invent . His Skin more hard then brass was found That sword or spear could pierce or wound . When this the people understood , they cried out most piteously , The Dragons breath infected their blood , that they each day in heaps did die , among them such a plague it bred The living scarce could bury the dead . No means there was that they could find , for to appease the Dragons rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , whereby he might his fury suage : Each day he should a Maiden eat , For to allay his hunger great . This thing by art the wise men found , which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round , a Virgin pure of good degree ; Was by the Kings Commission still , Took up to serve the Dragons will . Thus did the Dragon every day , a Maiden of the Town devour , Till all the Maids were worn away , and none were left that present hour , Saving the Kings fair daughter bright , Her Father's joy and hearts delight . Then came the Officers to the King , this heavy message to declare Which did his heart with sorrow sting , she is ( quoth he ) my Kingdoms heir : Oh let us all be poisoned here , Ever she should die that is my dear . Then rose the people presently , and to the King in rage they went , Who said his daughter dear should die , the Dragons fury to prevent ; Our daughters all are dead quoth they , And have been made the Dragons prey . And by their blood thou hast been blessed , and thou hast saved thy life thereby , And now in J ustice it does rest , for us thy daughter so should die : Oh save my daughter said the King , And let me feel the Dragons sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her knee , and to her father thus did say Oh Father strive not thus for me , but let me be the Dragons prey , It may be for my sake alone , This Plague upon the Land was shown It's better I should die ( she said ) then all your Subject's perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , for my offence to work his spite : And after he hath sucked my Gore , Your Land shall feel the grief no more . What hast thou done my daughter dear , for to deserve this heavy scourge , I tO is my fault it shall appear . which makes the Gods our state to grudge Then ought I die to stint the strife , And to preserve thy happy life . Like madmen all the people cried thy death to us can do no good , Our safety only does abide , to make thy daughter Dragons food : Lo here I am , ( Oh then quoth she , ) Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay dear daughter ( quod the Queen ) and as thou art a Virgin bright , That hath for virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white And crown thy head with flowers sweet , And ornament for Virgins meet . And when she was attired so , according to her mother's mind ; Unto the stake then she did go , to which they did this Virgin bind , And being bound to stake and thrall , She bade farewell unto them all . Farewell dear Father then ( quoth she ) and my sweet mother meek and mild , Take you no thought nor care for me for you may have another child : Here for my Countries good i'll die , Which I receive most willingly , The King and Queen with all their train with weeping eyes then went their way And let their daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragons prey ; But as she there did weeping lie , Behold St. George came riding by , Now like unto a valiant Knight , straight unto her did take his way And being amazed at this sighed , He then to her these words did say , Tell me sweet maiden then quoth he , What person thus abused thee ? And lo by Christ his cross I vow which here is figured on my breast , I will revenge it on his brow , and break my Lance upon his Crest , And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issued out of the Wood . The Lady that did first espy , the dreadful Dragon coming so Unto St. George aloud did cry , and willed him away to go : Here comes that cursed Fiend quoth she , That soon will make and end of me . St. George then looking round about , the fiery Dragon soon espyd , And like a Knight of courage stout , against him he did fiercely ride : And with such blows he did him greet : That he fell under his Horse feet . The second Part , to the same Tune . F Or with a Lance that was so strong as he came gaping in his face , In at his mouth he thrust it along , the which could pierce no other place : And there within the Ladies view , This dreadful dragon then he slew . The savour of his poisoned breath , could do this Christian Knight no harm Thus did he save the Lady from death , and home he led her by the arm , Which when Ptolomy did see , There was great joy and Melody . When as the famous Knight St. George had slave the Dragon in the field , , And brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with joy their hearts then filled He in the Egyptian Court then stayed , Till he most falsely was betrayed . The Lady Sabrine loved him well , he counted her his only joy , But when their love was open known , it proved St. Georges great annoy : The Morocco King was in the Court , Who to the Orchard did resort , Daily to take the pleasant air , for pleasures sake he used to Walk , Under a wall , whereas he herd , St. George with Lady Sabrine talk ; Their loves he revealed to the King , Which to St. George great woe did bring . These Kings together did devise , to make this Christian Knight away , With Letters him Ambassador , they straightway sent to Persia : And wrote to'th Sophy him to kill , And treacherously his blood to spill . Thus they for good did him reward , with Evil and most subtly ; By such vile means they did devise , to work his death most cruelly : While he in P ersia abided , He straight destroyed each Idol God . Which being done he straight was cast into a Dungeon dark and deep , But when he thought upon his wrong , he bitterly did wail and weep , Yet like a Knight of courage stont , Forth of the Dungeon he god out . And in the night three Horsekeepers , this valiant Knight by power slew , Although he fasted many a day , and then away from thence he flew , On the best Steed that Sophy had , Which when he knew he was full sad . Then into Christendom he came , and met a Giant by the way , With him in combat he did Fight , most valiantly a summer's day , Who yet for all his bats of Steel , Was forced the sting of death to feel . From Christendom that valiant Knight , then with Warlike Soldiers passed , Vowing upon that Heathen Land , to work revenge which at the last Ever thrice three years were gone & amp ; spent , He did unto his great content , Save only AEgypt Land he spared , for Sabrine bright her only sake ; And ever his rage he did surpass , he meant a trial kind to make , Ptolomy did know his strength in field . And unto him did kindly yield . Then he the Morocco King did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his wife ; And afterwards contentedly , with her St. George did led his life , Who by the virtue of a chain , Did still a virgin pure remain . To England then St. George did bring , this gallant Lady Sabrine bright , And Eunuch also came with them , in whom the Lady did delight : None but these three from AEgypt came , Now let me print St. Georges fame . When they were in the forest great , the Lady did desire to rest , And then St. George to kill a DeA most Excellent Ballad of St. George for England , and the Kings Daughter of Egypt , whom he delivere from death , and how he slew a mighty Dragon . To the Tune of [ Flying ] [ F ] ame . O F Hectors deeds did Homer Sing , ; and of the sack of stately Troy , What grief fair Hellen did them bring Which was Sir Paris only joy : And with my pen I must recite , St. Georges deeds ; and English Knight . Against the Sarazens full rude , fought he full long and many a day ; Where many a Giant he subdued , in honour of the Christian way And after many adventures past , To AEgypt land he came at last . And as the Story plain does tell , within that Country there did rest A dreadful Dragon fierce and fell , whereby they were full soar oppressed : Who by his poisoned breath each day , Did many of the City slay The grief thereof did grow so great , throughout the limits of the Land That they their wise men did entreat , to show there cunning out of hand : Which way they might this Dragon ' stroy , That did there country soar annoy . The wise men all before the King , framed this matter incontinent , The dragon none to death might bring by any means they could invent . His Skin more hard then brass was found That sword or spear could pierce or wound . When this the people understood , they cried out most piteously , The Dragons breath infected their blood , that they each day in heaps did die , among them such a plague it bred The living scarce could bury the dead . No means there was that they could find , for to appease the Dragons rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , whereby he might his fury suage : Each day he should a Maiden eat , For to allay his hunger great . This thing by art the wise men found , which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round , a Virgin pure of good degree ; Was by the Kings Commission still , Took up to serve the Dragons will . Thus did the Dragon every day , a Maiden of the Town devour , Till all the Maids were worn away , and none were left that present hour , Saving the Kings fair daughter bright , Her Father's joy and hearts delight . Then came the Officers to the King , this heavy message to declare Which did his heart with sorrow sting , she is ( quoth he ) my Kingdoms heir : Oh let us all be poisoned here , Ever she should die that is my dear . Then rose the people presently , and to the King in rage they went , Who said his daughter dear should die , the Dragons fury to prevent ; Our daughters all are dead quoth they , And have been made the Dragons prey . And by their blood thou hast been blessed , and thou hast saved thy life thereby , And now in J ustice it does rest , for us thy daughter so should die : Oh save my daughter said the King , And let me feel the Dragons sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her knee , and to her father thus did say Oh Father strive not thus for me , but let me be the Dragons prey , It may be for my sake alone , This Plague upon the Land was shown It's better I should die ( she said ) then all your Subject's perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , for my offence to work his spite : And after he hath sucked my Gore , Your Land shall feel the grief no more . What hast thou done my daughter dear , for to deserve this heavy scourge , I tO is my fault it shall appear . which makes the Gods our state to grudge Then ought I die to stint the strife , And to preserve thy happy life . Like madmen all the people cried thy death to us can do no good , Our safety only does abide , to make thy daughter Dragons food : Lo here I am , ( Oh then quoth she , ) Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay dear daughter ( quod the Queen ) and as thou art a Virgin bright , That hath for virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white And crown thy head with flowers sweet , And ornament for Virgins meet . And when she was attired so , according to her mother's mind ; Unto the stake then she did go , to which they did this Virgin bind , And being bound to stake and thrall , She bade farewell unto them all . Farewell dear Father then ( quoth she ) and my sweet mother meek and mild , Take you no thought nor care for me for you may have another child : Here for my Countries good i'll die , Which I receive most willingly , The King and Queen with all their train with weeping eyes then went their way And let their daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragons prey ; But as she there did weeping lie , Behold St. George came riding by , Now like unto a valiant Knight , straight unto her did take his way And being amazed at this sighed , He then to her these words did say , Tell me sweet maiden then quoth he , What person thus abused thee ? And lo by Christ his cross I vow which here is figured on my breast , I will revenge it on his brow , and break my Lance upon his Crest , And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issued out of the Wood . The Lady that did first espy , the dreadful Dragon coming so Unto St. George aloud did cry , and willed him away to go : Here comes that cursed Fiend quoth she , That soon will make and end of me . St. George then looking round about , the fiery Dragon soon espyd , And like a Knight of courage stout , against him he did fiercely ride : And with such blows he did him greet : That he fell under his Horse feet . The second Part , to the same Tune . F Or with a Lance that was so strong as he came gaping in his face , In at his mouth he thrust it along , the which could pierce no other place : And there within the Ladies view , This dreadful dragon then he slew . The savour of his poisoned breath , could do this Christian Knight no harm Thus did he save the Lady from death , and home he led her by the arm , Which when Ptolomy did see , There was great joy and Melody . When as the famous Knight St. George had slave the Dragon in the field , , And brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with joy their hearts then filled He in the Egyptian Court then stayed , Till he most falsely was betrayed . The Lady Sabrine loved him well , he counted her his only joy , But when their love was open known , it proved St. Georges great annoy : The Morocco King was in the Court , Who to the Orchard did resort , Daily to take the pleasant air , for pleasures sake he used to Walk , Under a wall , whereas he herd , St. George with Lady Sabrine talk ; Their loves he revealed to the King , Which to St. George great woe did bring . These Kings together did devise , to make this Christian Knight away , With Letters him Ambassador , they straightway sent to Persia : And wrote to'th Sophy him to kill , And treacherously his blood to spill . Thus they for good did him reward , with Evil and most subtly ; By such vile means they did devise , to work his death most cruelly : While he in P ersia abided , He straight destroyed each Idol God . Which being done he straight was cast into a Dungeon dark and deep , But when he thought upon his wrong , he bitterly did wail and weep , Yet like a Knight of courage stont , Forth of the Dungeon he god out . And in the night three Horsekeepers , this valiant Knight by power slew , Although he fasted many a day , and then away from thence he flew , On the best Steed that Sophy had , Which when he knew he was full sad . Then into Christendom he came , and met a Giant by the way , With him in combat he did Fight , most valiantly a summer's day , Who yet for all his bats of Steel , Was forced the sting of death to feel . From Christendom that valiant Knight , then with Warlike Soldiers passed , Vowing upon that Heathen Land , to work revenge which at the last Ever thrice three years were gone & amp ; spent , He did unto his great content , Save only AEgypt Land he spared , for Sabrine bright her only sake ; And ever his rage he did surpass , he meant a trial kind to make , Ptolomy did know his strength in field . And unto him did kindly yield . Then he the Morocco King did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his wife ; And afterwards contentedly , with her St. George did led his life , Who by the virtue of a chain , Did still a virgin pure remain . To England then St. George did bring , this gallant Lady Sabrine bright , And Eunuch also came with them , in whom the Lady did delight : None but these three from AEgypt came , Now let me print St. Georges fame . When they were in the forest great , the Lady did desire to rest , And then St. George to kill a Deer . to feed thereon did think it best , Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , While he did go and kill a Deer The mean time in his absence came , two hungry Lyons fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently , in pieces small the truth to tell , Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seemed she was a Maid , But when St. George from hunting came and did behold this heavy chance , Yet for his lovely Virgin pure , his courage stout he did advance : And came within the Lyons sighed . Who run at him withal their might , But he being not a bit dismayed , but like a stout and valiant Knight , Did kill the hungry Lyons both , within the Lady Sabrines sighed , But all this while sad and demure , She stood there like a Virgin pure . Then when St. George did truly know , his Lady was a Virgin true , Those doleful thoughts that ever was dumb , began most firmly to renew , He set her on a Palfrey steed , And towards England came with speed , Where he arrived in short space , unto his father's dwelling place , Where with his dearest love he lived , when fortune did there Nuptials grace They many years of joy did see , A and led there lives at Coventry . P rinted for J.C. W. T. and T. Passenger . er . to feed thereon did think it best , Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , While he did go and kill a Deer The mean time in his absence came , two hungry Lyons fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently , in pieces small the truth to tell , Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seemed she was a Maid , But when St. George from hunting came and did behold this heavy chance , Yet for his lovely Virgin pure , his courage stout he did advance : And came within the Lyons sighed . Who run at him withal their might , But he being not a bit dismayed , but like a stout and valiant Knight , Did kill the hungry Lyons both , within the Lady Sabrines sighed , But all this while sad and demure , She stood there like a Virgin pure . Then when St. George did truly know , his Lady was a Virgin true , Those doleful thoughts that ever was dumb , began most firmly to renew , He set her on a Palfrey steed , And towards England came with speed , Where he arrived in short space , unto his father's dwelling place , Where with his dearest love he lived , when fortune did there Nuptials grace They many years of joy did see , A and led there lives at Coventry . P rinted for J.C. W. T. and T. Passenger . 