A Pleasant new Ballad of King Henry the second and the Miller of Mansfield , in Sherwood , and how he was lodged at the Millers house , and of their pleasant Communication . Tune of , the French Levalto . HEnry our Royal King would ride a hunting , to the Green Forest so pleasant and fair , To have the Heart chased , and dainty Does tripping , unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair ; Hawk and Hound was unbound , all things prepared , For the same , to the game , with good regard . All a long Summer's day , road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes and Nobles each one ; Chasing the Heart , and Hind , and the Buck gallantly , till the dark evening forced him to turn home : Then at last , riding fast , he had lost quite , All his Lords in the wood , late in darknight ; Wandering thus warily , all alone up and down , with a rude Miller he met at the last : Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham , Sir , quoth the Miller your way you have lost : Yet I think , what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why , what dost thou think of me ? quod our King merrily , passing thy judgement upon me so brief ; Good faith , said the Miller , I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman-thief ; Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy Knaves Crown . Thou hast abused me much , quod the King , saying thus . I am a Gentleman , and lodging I lack , Thou hast not , quod the Miller , one Groat in thy purse , all thy inheritance hangs on thy back ; I have Gold to discharge all that I call , If it be forty pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a trueman , then quoth the Miller , I swear by my Tole-dish I'll lodge thee all night ; Here's my hand , quoth the King , that was I ever , Nay soft , quoth the Miller , thou mayest be a spright : Better I'll know thee , ever hands I will take , With none but honest men hands will I shake ; Thus they went all along unto the Millers house , where they were seething of puddings and souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a house , Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are , Quoth our King , look your fill , and do not spare . I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , with my Son Richard this night thou shalt lie ; Quoth his wife , by my troth it is a handsome youth , yet it is best ( Husband ) for to deal warily : Art thou not a runaway , prithee youth tell , Show me thy passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently , making low courtesy , with his hat in his hand thus he did say , I have no passport , nor never was servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your kindness here offered me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller , his wife whispered secretly saying , it seems this youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel , and eke by his manners , to turn him out certainly 'twere a great since . Yea , quoth he , you may see , he hath some grace , When he does speak to his betters in place . Well , quod the Millers wife young man welcome here , and though I say it well lodged thou shalt be , Fresh Straw I will have , laid on thy bed so brave , good brown Hempon sheets likewise , quoth she ; I , quoth the Good man , and when that is done , You shall lie with no worse then our own Son. Nay first quoth Richard , Good fellow tell me true , hast thou creepers within thy gay hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scabbado ? I pray quoth our King , what things are those ? Art thou not lousy , nor scabby , quoth he . If thou be'st , surely thou liest not with me . This caused the King suddenly , to laugh most heartily till the tears trickled down from his eyes , Then to their supper were they set orderly , with a hight Bag-pudding and good Apple-pies ; Nappy Ale , good stale , in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily trowl . Here quoth the Miller , good fellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals where ever they be , I'll pledge you , quoth our King , and thank you heartily for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner i'll drink to your Son , Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come : Wife , quoth the Miller , fetch me forth Lightfoot , that we of his sweetness a little my taste , A fair Venision-pasty , then brought she forth presently eat quoth the Miller , but sir make no waste : Here's dainty Lightfoot in faith said our King , I never before did eat so dainty a thing . I wis ( said Richard ) no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day ; In what place , said our King may be bought like to this ? we never pay penny for it by faith . From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bodl with our Kings Deer : Then I think , said our King , that it is Venision , each fool ( quoth Richard ) full well may see that , Never are we without two or three under the Roof , very well fleshed and excellent fat : But prithee say nothing where ever thou go , We would not for two pence the King should it know . Doubt not then said the King , my promised secrecy , the King shall never know more oned for me . A cup of Lambswool they drank unto him then , and to their beds they passed presently : The Nobles next morning went all up and down , For to seek out the King in every town . At last at the Millers house soon they espied him plain as he was mounting upon his fair steed , To whom they came presently , falling upon their knee , which made the Millers heart woefully bleed : Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hanged by the rood : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his sword and nothing he said , The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his head : But his kind courtesy for to requite . Gave him a living , and made him a Knight . The second part of the Miller and the King , showing how he came to Court with his Wife and Son , and what Merry Conceits passed between the King and him . W Hen as our royal King came home from Nottingham , and with his Nobles at Westminster [ lay ] Recounting the sports and pastimes they had [ tan ] e , in this late progress along by the way Of them all great and small he did protest , The Miller of Mansfield is sport liked him best . And now my Lords quod the King I am determined , against St. Georges next sumptuous feast , That this old Miller our last confirmed Knight , with his Son Richard shall both be my Guess , For in this merriment it's my desire , To talk with the jolly Knight , and the young Squire . When as the Lords , saw the Kings pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their hearts , A pursuivant there was sent streighton the business , the which had oftentimes been in those parts . When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell . God save your worship , then said the Messenger , and grant your Lady her hearts desire , And to your Son Richard good fortune and happiness that sweet young Gentleman & amp ; gallant young squire , Our King greets you all , and thus does say You must come to the Court on St. Georges day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place , I wis quoth the Miller , this is and odd jest : What should we do there , he said : faith I am half afraid . I doubt ( quoth Richard ) be hanged at the least : Nay , quoth the Messenger , you do mistake , Our King he provides a great feast for your sake . Then said the Miller , now by my troth Messenger , thou hast contented my Worship full well : Hold here's 3 farthings to quit thy great gentleness for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell : Let me see , here's to thee , tell to our King , We'll wait on his Mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many legs took their reward : And taking then his leave with great humility , to the Kings Court again he repaired : Showing unto his Grace in each degree , The Knights most liberal gift and bounty . When he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , here comes expenses and charges indeed : Now we must needs be brave , though we spend all we have for of new Garments we have great need : Of Horses and Servingmen we must have store , With Bridles and Saddles , and twenty things more . Tush , sir John , quoth his Wife , never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more charges for me , For I will turn andA Pleasant new Ballad of King Henry the second and the Miller of Mansfield , in Sherwood , and how he was lodged at the Millers house , and of their pleasant Communication . Tune of , the French Levalto . HEnry our Royal King would ride a hunting , to the Green Forest so pleasant and fair , To have the Heart chased , and dainty Does tripping , unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair ; Hawk and Hound was unbound , all things prepared , For the same , to the game , with good regard . All a long Summer's day , road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes and Nobles each one ; Chasing the Heart , and Hind , and the Buck gallantly , till the dark evening forced him to turn home : Then at last , riding fast , he had lost quite , All his Lords in the wood , late in darknight ; Wandering thus warily , all alone up and down , with a rude Miller he met at the last : Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham , Sir , quoth the Miller your way you have lost : Yet I think , what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why , what dost thou think of me ? quod our King merrily , passing thy judgement upon me so brief ; Good faith , said the Miller , I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman-thief ; Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy Knaves Crown . Thou hast abused me much , quod the King , saying thus . I am a Gentleman , and lodging I lack , Thou hast not , quod the Miller , one Groat in thy purse , all thy inheritance hangs on thy back ; I have Gold to discharge all that I call , If it be forty pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a trueman , then quoth the Miller , I swear by my Tole-dish I'll lodge thee all night ; Here's my hand , quoth the King , that was I ever , Nay soft , quoth the Miller , thou mayest be a spright : Better I'll know thee , ever hands I will take , With none but honest men hands will I shake ; Thus they went all along unto the Millers house , where they were seething of puddings and souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a house , Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are , Quoth our King , look your fill , and do not spare . I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , with my Son Richard this night thou shalt lie ; Quoth his wife , by my troth it is a handsome youth , yet it is best ( Husband ) for to deal warily : Art thou not a runaway , prithee youth tell , Show me thy passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently , making low courtesy , with his hat in his hand thus he did say , I have no passport , nor never was servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your kindness here offered me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller , his wife whispered secretly saying , it seems this youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel , and eke by his manners , to turn him out certainly 'twere a great since . Yea , quoth he , you may see , he hath some grace , When he does speak to his betters in place . Well , quod the Millers wife young man welcome here , and though I say it well lodged thou shalt be , Fresh Straw I will have , laid on thy bed so brave , good brown Hempon sheets likewise , quoth she ; I , quoth the Good man , and when that is done , You shall lie with no worse then our own Son. Nay first quoth Richard , Good fellow tell me true , hast thou creepers within thy gay hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scabbado ? I pray quoth our King , what things are those ? Art thou not lousy , nor scabby , quoth he . If thou be'st , surely thou liest not with me . This caused the King suddenly , to laugh most heartily till the tears trickled down from his eyes , Then to their supper were they set orderly , with a hight Bag-pudding and good Apple-pies ; Nappy Ale , good stale , in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily trowl . Here quoth the Miller , good fellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals where ever they be , I'll pledge you , quoth our King , and thank you heartily for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner i'll drink to your Son , Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come : Wife , quoth the Miller , fetch me forth Lightfoot , that we of his sweetness a little my taste , A fair Venision-pasty , then brought she forth presently eat quoth the Miller , but sir make no waste : Here's dainty Lightfoot in faith said our King , I never before did eat so dainty a thing . I wis ( said Richard ) no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day ; In what place , said our King may be bought like to this ? we never pay penny for it by faith . From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bodl with our Kings Deer : Then I think , said our King , that it is Venision , each fool ( quoth Richard ) full well may see that , Never are we without two or three under the Roof , very well fleshed and excellent fat : But prithee say nothing where ever thou go , We would not for two pence the King should it know . Doubt not then said the King , my promised secrecy , the King shall never know more oned for me . A cup of Lambswool they drank unto him then , and to their beds they passed presently : The Nobles next morning went all up and down , For to seek out the King in every town . At last at the Millers house soon they espied him plain as he was mounting upon his fair steed , To whom they came presently , falling upon their knee , which made the Millers heart woefully bleed : Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hanged by the rood : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his sword and nothing he said , The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his head : But his kind courtesy for to requite . Gave him a living , and made him a Knight . The second part of the Miller and the King , showing how he came to Court with his Wife and Son , and what Merry Conceits passed between the King and him . W Hen as our royal King came home from Nottingham , and with his Nobles at Westminster [ lay ] Recounting the sports and pastimes they had [ tan ] e , in this late progress along by the way Of them all great and small he did protest , The Miller of Mansfield is sport liked him best . And now my Lords quod the King I am determined , against St. Georges next sumptuous feast , That this old Miller our last confirmed Knight , with his Son Richard shall both be my Guess , For in this merriment it's my desire , To talk with the jolly Knight , and the young Squire . When as the Lords , saw the Kings pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their hearts , A pursuivant there was sent streighton the business , the which had oftentimes been in those parts . When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell . God save your worship , then said the Messenger , and grant your Lady her hearts desire , And to your Son Richard good fortune and happiness that sweet young Gentleman & amp ; gallant young squire , Our King greets you all , and thus does say You must come to the Court on St. Georges day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place , I wis quoth the Miller , this is and odd jest : What should we do there , he said : faith I am half afraid . I doubt ( quoth Richard ) be hanged at the least : Nay , quoth the Messenger , you do mistake , Our King he provides a great feast for your sake . Then said the Miller , now by my troth Messenger , thou hast contented my Worship full well : Hold here's 3 farthings to quit thy great gentleness for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell : Let me see , here's to thee , tell to our King , We'll wait on his Mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many legs took their reward : And taking then his leave with great humility , to the Kings Court again he repaired : Showing unto his Grace in each degree , The Knights most liberal gift and bounty . When he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , here comes expenses and charges indeed : Now we must needs be brave , though we spend all we have for of new Garments we have great need : Of Horses and Servingmen we must have store , With Bridles and Saddles , and twenty things more . Tush , sir John , quoth his Wife , never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more charges for me , For I will turn and trim up my old Russet Gown , with every thing as fine as may be : And on our Mill-horses full swift we will ride , With Pillows and Panels as we shall provide . In this most stately sort , road they unto the Court , their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap , a Cocks feather in his Cap , and so they jetted down towards the Kings Hall : The Merry old Miller with his hands on his side , His Wife like maid Marrian did mince at that tide . The King and his Nobles , that herd of his coming meeting this gallant Knight with his brave train Welcome sir Knight , quod he , with this your gay Lady , good sir John Cockle , one welcome again ; And so is this Squire of courage so free , Quoth Dick abbots on you , do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , how should I forget thee ? thous waste my own bedfellow well that I wot : But I think of a trick , tell me that prithee Dick , how thou with Farting didst make the bed hight . Thou whoreson happy Knave , then quoth the Knight , Speak cleanly to our King or else go shite ; The King and his Courtiers heartily laughed at this , while the King took them both by the hand : With Ladies & amp ; their maids , like to the Queen of spades the Millers Wife did so orderly stand , A Milk-Maids courtesy at every word , And down the folks were set at the sideboard : Where the King royally , in Princely Majesty , sat at his Dinner with joy and delight , When they had eaten well , to jesting then they fell , taking a Bowl of Wine drank to the Knight : Here's to you both , he said , in Wine , Ale and Beer , Thanking you all for your Country cheer . Quoth sir John Cockle i'll pledge you a pottle , were it the best Ale in Nottinghamshire ; But then said our King , I do think of a thing , some of your Lightfoot I would we had here , Ho , ho quoth Richard full well I may say it , It's knavery to eat it , and then to betray it : Why art thou angry : quoth our King merrily , in faith I take it very unkind : I thought thou wouldst pledge me in Ale and Wine heartily , you're like to stay , quoth Dick , till I have dined : You feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds a Black-pudding is better then all . I marry , quoth our King , that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to eat : With that Dick arose , and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his breech began for to sweat . The King made a proffer to snatch it away , This meat for your Master , good Sir you must stay . Thus in great merriment , was the time wholly spent , and the the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent , unto this practice the King did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , The Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache . Many thanks for their pains , did the King give them , asking young Richard if he would be wed : Among these Ladies free , tell me which liketh thee , quoth he , Jug Grumbol with the read head : She's my love , she's my life , she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her Maidenhead . Then Sir John Cockle , the King called unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him the Overseer , And gave him out of hand , three hundred pound yearly and now take heed you steal no more of my Deer : And once a quarter lets here have your view , And thus Sir John Cockle I bid you adieu . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . trim up my old Russet Gown , with every thing as fine as may be : And on our Mill-horses full swift we will ride , With Pillows and Panels as we shall provide . In this most stately sort , road they unto the Court , their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap , a Cocks feather in his Cap , and so they jetted down towards the Kings Hall : The Merry old Miller with his hands on his side , His Wife like maid Marrian did mince at that tide . The King and his Nobles , that herd of his coming meeting this gallant Knight with his brave train Welcome sir Knight , quod he , with this your gay Lady , good sir John Cockle , one welcome again ; And so is this Squire of courage so free , Quoth Dick abbots on you , do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , how should I forget thee ? thous waste my own bedfellow well that I wot : But I think of a trick , tell me that prithee Dick , how thou with Farting didst make the bed hight . Thou whoreson happy Knave , then quoth the Knight , Speak cleanly to our King or else go shite ; The King and his Courtiers heartily laughed at this , while the King took them both by the hand : With Ladies & amp ; their maids , like to the Queen of spades the Millers Wife did so orderly stand , A Milk-Maids courtesy at every word , And down the folks were set at the sideboard : Where the King royally , in Princely Majesty , sat at his Dinner with joy and delight , When they had eaten well , to jesting then they fell , taking a Bowl of Wine drank to the Knight : Here's to you both , he said , in Wine , Ale and Beer , Thanking you all for your Country cheer . Quoth sir John Cockle i'll pledge you a pottle , were it the best Ale in Nottinghamshire ; But then said our King , I do think of a thing , some of your Lightfoot I would we had here , Ho , ho quoth Richard full well I may say it , It's knavery to eat it , and then to betray it : Why art thou angry : quoth our King merrily , in faith I take it very unkind : I thought thou wouldst pledge me in Ale and Wine heartily , you're like to stay , quoth Dick , till I have dined : You feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds a Black-pudding is better then all . I marry , quoth our King , that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to eat : With that Dick arose , and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his breech began for to sweat . The King made a proffer to snatch it away , This meat for your Master , good Sir you must stay . Thus in great merriment , was the time wholly spent , and the the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent , unto this practice the King did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , The Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache . Many thanks for their pains , did the King give them , asking young Richard if he would be wed : Among these Ladies free , tell me which liketh thee , quoth he , Jug Grumbol with the read head : She's my love , she's my life , she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her Maidenhead . Then Sir John Cockle , the King called unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him the Overseer , And gave him out of hand , three hundred pound yearly and now take heed you steal no more of my Deer : And once a quarter lets here have your view , And thus Sir John Cockle I bid you adieu . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 