The Northampton-shire Lovers . OR , No Wealth can compare unto true Love . Youngmen and Maids that delight to hear How Lovers couple , pray draw near ; And in this Sonnet you may find A fancy that may please your mind . Tune of , True Love rew [ arded ] with Loyalty , or , Lo [ we ] s downfall . I N summertime when leaves are green and Flora in her rich array , With all sorts of flowers so sweet , she had bedecked the fields so gay . I espied a Youngman and a Maid a walking in the cool o'th'day , The Youngman he was not afraid , but these words unto her did say . Man. O turn to me my own dear heart and I my self will turn to thee , For thou and I will never part while life and breath remains in me . Thou knowest these long 7 years & amp ; more , we two together have been in love , And I have slackened my desires only thy passion for to prove . But here's my hand , no longer I no further trial now will make , But love thee till the day I die , therefore my Bride I mean to take . I have six Horses at my Blow , and six more in my Stable stand , And here to thee I make a vow they all shall be at thy command . Beside my grounds they are well stocked , for thee to walk in to and from ; In truth my dear I do not mock , if thou canst love me tell me so . Maid . Your words good sir are very fair , ten times better than I do deserve , Yet it's good for me to have a care lest you from them should quickly swerve For youngmen's tongues now in these days they are so tipped with words so fair , A maidens beauty they will praise [ tO ] ill they have caught her in a snare . But if yonder Tower was full of Gold and thou couldst give it unto me , Until i'm wed I never would loose one dram of my Virginity . The second Part , to the same Tune . Tho foolish knacks some maids entice to yield unto a youngman's will ; Then leave them in fools Paradise , and of repenting they have their fill . For hasty marriage never proves good , so it behoves me to be coy ; Although i'm young I understand that in my freedom's all my joy . So for this time good Sir adieu , my mother she for me does stay ; And when I hear your heart is true , you then shall hear what I will say . Till then whatever me betide , let wealth or sorrow come to me , Until that I am made a Bride , I never mean to turn to thee . Man. But wilt thou be gone my love and joy , and leave me in this place alone , The chirping birds will cease their notes to hear me make my grievous moan . The waters which are here so deep without a shroud my Grave shall be ; My body shall the fish feed , if once you do depart from me . Therefore as thou'rt a Virgin pure , and I think thee to be no less , Some comfort now to me procure to ease my grief and heaviness . Be not a talk to other maids , that they behind your back should say , She was so peevish and so coy , she cast her first truelove away . Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I my self will turn to thee , For thou and I will never part while life and breath remains in me . Maid . I would not for ten thousand world's that any friend of mine should say I was so peevish and so coy , to cast my first truelove away . But where he is I cannot tell , no , nor yet do I know his name ; Yet you pretend that you are him , with protestations on the same . Yet a farther trial I will have ever that the trueloves knot I tie ; Before i'll match [ h ] to be a slave , i'd rather by this knife to die . Tho some don't look before they leap , I will be wary of such things ; For while i'm single I live well , but marriage many troubles brings . You say you've House , you say you've Land yet all that does not please my mind , Your looks does show you dogged are , and will not to a wife prove kinn Then what will Riches profit me , if I have not a quiet life : A Lady that lives discontentedly she'd better be a Hoggards wife . Man. I can say no less my only dear , these words are true you tell to me : When man and wife does live at strife be sure no blessing there can be . But a loving man of me thou'lt find as any lives beneath the Sun , I ever to thee will prove kind , isle never think much of what thou'st done . My promise I will keep and hold so long as life remains in me , if thou wants Silver or good Gold I strait will give it unto thee . Therefore the bargain let us seal with a kiss or two that is so sweet . And so much then he did prevail that lovingly she did him greet . Now she no longer does seem coy , and this is all the youngman's Song , Now I have gained my love and joy , we will be wedded ever be long . And what he spoke he did fulfil , so far as I can understand , They went to church with friends good will and strait was married out of hand . Thus all young Lovers they may learn where ever they do go or come : Young men if once a bargain you make , be sure that you do strike it home . For long delays does never prove good , a modest and a civil girl , Though she is poor and thou art rich , yet love out-passes Gold or Pearl , Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Northampton-shire Lovers . OR , No Wealth can compare unto true Love . Youngmen and Maids that delight to hear How Lovers couple , pray draw near ; And in this Sonnet you may find A fancy that may please your mind . Tune of , True Love rew [ arded ] with Loyalty , or , Lo [ we ] s downfall . I N summertime when leaves are green and Flora in her rich array , With all sorts of flowers so sweet , she had bedecked the fields so gay . I espied a Youngman and a Maid a walking in the cool o'th'day , The Youngman he was not afraid , but these words unto her did say . Man. O turn to me my own dear heart and I my self will turn to thee , For thou and I will never part while life and breath remains in me . Thou knowest these long 7 years & amp ; more , we two together have been in love , And I have slackened my desires only thy passion for to prove . But here's my hand , no longer I no further trial now will make , But love thee till the day I die , therefore my Bride I mean to take . I have six Horses at my Blow , and six more in my Stable stand , And here to thee I make a vow they all shall be at thy command . Beside my grounds they are well stocked , for thee to walk in to and from ; In truth my dear I do not mock , if thou canst love me tell me so . Maid . Your words good sir are very fair , ten times better than I do deserve , Yet it's good for me to have a care lest you from them should quickly swerve For youngmen's tongues now in these days they are so tipped with words so fair , A maidens beauty they will praise [ tO ] ill they have caught her in a snare . But if yonder Tower was full of Gold and thou couldst give it unto me , Until i'm wed I never would loose one dram of my Virginity . The second Part , to the same Tune . Tho foolish knacks some maids entice to yield unto a youngman's will ; Then leave them in fools Paradise , and of repenting they have their fill . For hasty marriage never proves good , so it behoves me to be coy ; Although i'm young I understand that in my freedom's all my joy . So for this time good Sir adieu , my mother she for me does stay ; And when I hear your heart is true , you then shall hear what I will say . Till then whatever me betide , let wealth or sorrow come to me , Until that I am made a Bride , I never mean to turn to thee . Man. But wilt thou be gone my love and joy , and leave me in this place alone , The chirping birds will cease their notes to hear me make my grievous moan . The waters which are here so deep without a shroud my Grave shall be ; My body shall the fish feed , if once you do depart from me . Therefore as thou'rt a Virgin pure , and I think thee to be no less , Some comfort now to me procure to ease my grief and heaviness . Be not a talk to other maids , that they behind your back should say , She was so peevish and so coy , she cast her first truelove away . Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I my self will turn to thee , For thou and I will never part while life and breath remains in me . Maid . I would not for ten thousand world's that any friend of mine should say I was so peevish and so coy , to cast my first truelove away . But where he is I cannot tell , no , nor yet do I know his name ; Yet you pretend that you are him , with protestations on the same . Yet a farther trial I will have ever that the trueloves knot I tie ; Before i'll match [ h ] to be a slave , i'd rather by this knife to die . Tho some don't look before they leap , I will be wary of such things ; For while i'm single I live well , but marriage many troubles brings . You say you've House , you say you've Land yet all that does not please my mind , Your looks does show you dogged are , and will not to a wife prove kinn Then what will Riches profit me , if I have not a quiet life : A Lady that lives discontentedly she'd better be a Hoggards wife . Man. I can say no less my only dear , these words are true you tell to me : When man and wife does live at strife be sure no blessing there can be . But a loving man of me thou'lt find as any lives beneath the Sun , I ever to thee will prove kind , isle never think much of what thou'st done . My promise I will keep and hold so long as life remains in me , if thou wants Silver or good Gold I strait will give it unto thee . Therefore the bargain let us seal with a kiss or two that is so sweet . And so much then he did prevail that lovingly she did him greet . Now she no longer does seem coy , and this is all the youngman's Song , Now I have gained my love and joy , we will be wedded ever be long . And what he spoke he did fulfil , so far as I can understand , They went to church with friends good will and strait was married out of hand . Thus all young Lovers they may learn where ever they do go or come : Young men if once a bargain you make , be sure that you do strike it home . For long delays does never prove good , a modest and a civil girl , Though she is poor and thou art rich , yet love out-passes Gold or Pearl , Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 