The lamentable Burning of the City of Cork ( in the Province of Munster in Ireland ) by Lightning : which happened the Last of May , 1622. After the prodigious Battle of the Stares , which Fought most strangely over and near that City , the 12. and 14. of May . 1621. To the tune of Fortune my foe . W Ho please to hear such news as are most true , Such news to make a Christians heart to rue : Such News as may make stoutest hearts to shake , And Sinners justly to tremble and to quake . Reade this , and they shall have just cause to fear , Gods heavy hand on sin reported here : It lately herd that Birds all of a feather , Did strangely meet , and strangely fought together . At Cork in Ireland , where with might and main , They fought together till store of them were slain : Their Fight began and ended with such hate , Some strange event it did Prognosticate . What was presaged fell out this last of May , Which was at Cork a [ ? ] y dismal day : This last of May the Morning was most fair , Towards xii . a clock , Clouds gathered in the Air . Which Clouds obscured , and darkened so the light , That Midday almost was as dark as Night : Whilst at such darkness Citizens did wonder , Forthwith they herd a dreadful clap of Thunder . And with the Thunder , presently there came Such Lightning forth the Clouds did seem to flame : But here observe , this City towards the East , Stands high , but falls low towards the West . As at the East the Stares began their Fight , And there fell down the Birds first , killed outright : So at the East began the Fire to flame , Those at the West did soon behold the same . And towards the East , to see and help they ran , Before half way , a woeful Cry began : Behind them , seeing the West end was on Fire , They so recalled , began for to retire . As from the East , towards the West they turn , They saw the midst of the City burn : So at and instant all was on a flame , There was no means to help to quench the same . Although great store of Water was in place , Water could not help there in such a case : For why that Fire which from the Skies does fallen , Is not with Water to be quenched at all . Now were the Citizens overwhelmed with woe , For no man knew , which way to run or go : For in the City no man could abide , The Fire raged so on every side . Some were enclosed with Fire , they for their safety Fled to the Churches , which were in the City : Some to and Island , and the Fields hard by , To save their lives , with grieved hearts did fly . Who was not then tormented in his mind , To fly and leave all that he had behind ? When that the Husband , for to save his life , Might not make stay to bring away his Wife , Or save his Children : in like case the Mother , Fled from her Children , Sister fled from Brother : All were amazed in this woeful Day , Not knowing where to fly nor where to stay : Nor where to seek or after Friends inquire , They knew not who was saved , who burned by Fire : A doleful thing it was men might not tarry , Out of the flames , their dearest Friends to carry . The Second part . To the same tune . O That this woeful chance of Cork might rend , The hearts of men and cause them to repent Their wicked lives for to escape the Rod , Which they have cause to fear , will fallen from God . Cork to all Cities , may example be , To know they are not from Gods Justice free : For being Sinners they may fear the like , As fell to Cork , God in his wrath will strike . But they will say , God's merciful , it's true , But in this case , let them give God his due : Let them not so unto his mercy trust , But let them know that God is also Just . God's merciful to Sinners which repent , His Justice is towards lingering sinners bent : Who will take hold of mercy and of Grace , Let them repent whilst they have time and space . Repentance only pacifies Gods Ire , Preserves from sudden , and Eternal Fire : This word Repentance , is a wicked thing , To wicked Livers , it's a Serpents sting . Why should Repentance be so bitter , when This the only salve to Cure sinful men ? And furthermore when as we are most sure , That die we must we cannot long endure . When we are sure , we from this world must go , But by what kind of Death , we do not know : No more then Cork did when that God did pour The Fire upon them in a dreadful hour . Why should not we be well provided then , Against a certain Death , but know not when : Nor by what kind of death , Death will us take , Then let Repentance our atonement make . If men Repentance in this life do stay , Let them consider of the Judgement day : When God to Sinners , shall say in his Ire : Go hence ye Cursed to Eternal Fire . But who in Life did faithfully Repent , When they shall come to appear at that Judgement The Judge will say : Go Children of all Bliss , Enter the Kingdom , for you prepared is . The God of Heaven grant , that all Sinners take , That course which may them blessed creatures make , That come ye Blessed , with a joyful ear , They from the Judge at that main day may hear . FINIS . Printed at London by E.A. You shall see the full Relation at large in the Book newly Printed . The lamentable Burning of the City of Cork ( in the Province of Munster in Ireland ) by Lightning : which happened the Last of May , 1622. After the prodigious Battle of the Stares , which Fought most strangely over and near that City , the 12. and 14. of May . 1621. To the tune of Fortune my foe . W Ho please to hear such news as are most true , Such news to make a Christians heart to rue : Such News as may make stoutest hearts to shake , And Sinners justly to tremble and to quake . Reade this , and they shall have just cause to fear , Gods heavy hand on sin reported here : It lately herd that Birds all of a feather , Did strangely meet , and strangely fought together . At Cork in Ireland , where with might and main , They fought together till store of them were slain : Their Fight began and ended with such hate , Some strange event it did Prognosticate . What was presaged fell out this last of May , Which was at Cork a [ ? ] y dismal day : This last of May the Morning was most fair , Towards xii . a clock , Clouds gathered in the Air . Which Clouds obscured , and darkened so the light , That Midday almost was as dark as Night : Whilst at such darkness Citizens did wonder , Forthwith they herd a dreadful clap of Thunder . And with the Thunder , presently there came Such Lightning forth the Clouds did seem to flame : But here observe , this City towards the East , Stands high , but falls low towards the West . As at the East the Stares began their Fight , And there fell down the Birds first , killed outright : So at the East began the Fire to flame , Those at the West did soon behold the same . And towards the East , to see and help they ran , Before half way , a woeful Cry began : Behind them , seeing the West end was on Fire , They so recalled , began for to retire . As from the East , towards the West they turn , They saw the midst of the City burn : So at and instant all was on a flame , There was no means to help to quench the same . Although great store of Water was in place , Water could not help there in such a case : For why that Fire which from the Skies does fallen , Is not with Water to be quenched at all . Now were the Citizens overwhelmed with woe , For no man knew , which way to run or go : For in the City no man could abide , The Fire raged so on every side . Some were enclosed with Fire , they for their safety Fled to the Churches , which were in the City : Some to and Island , and the Fields hard by , To save their lives , with grieved hearts did fly . Who was not then tormented in his mind , To fly and leave all that he had behind ? When that the Husband , for to save his life , Might not make stay to bring away his Wife , Or save his Children : in like case the Mother , Fled from her Children , Sister fled from Brother : All were amazed in this woeful Day , Not knowing where to fly nor where to stay : Nor where to seek or after Friends inquire , They knew not who was saved , who burned by Fire : A doleful thing it was men might not tarry , Out of the flames , their dearest Friends to carry . The Second part . To the same tune . O That this woeful chance of Cork might rend , The hearts of men and cause them to repent Their wicked lives for to escape the Rod , Which they have cause to fear , will fallen from God . Cork to all Cities , may example be , To know they are not from Gods Justice free : For being Sinners they may fear the like , As fell to Cork , God in his wrath will strike . But they will say , God's merciful , it's true , But in this case , let them give God his due : Let them not so unto his mercy trust , But let them know that God is also Just . God's merciful to Sinners which repent , His Justice is towards lingering sinners bent : Who will take hold of mercy and of Grace , Let them repent whilst they have time and space . Repentance only pacifies Gods Ire , Preserves from sudden , and Eternal Fire : This word Repentance , is a wicked thing , To wicked Livers , it's a Serpents sting . Why should Repentance be so bitter , when This the only salve to Cure sinful men ? And furthermore when as we are most sure , That die we must we cannot long endure . When we are sure , we from this world must go , But by what kind of Death , we do not know : No more then Cork did when that God did pour The Fire upon them in a dreadful hour . Why should not we be well provided then , Against a certain Death , but know not when : Nor by what kind of death , Death will us take , Then let Repentance our atonement make . If men Repentance in this life do stay , Let them consider of the Judgement day : When God to Sinners , shall say in his Ire : Go hence ye Cursed to Eternal Fire . But who in Life did faithfully Repent , When they shall come to appear at that Judgement The Judge will say : Go Children of all Bliss , Enter the Kingdom , for you prepared is . The God of Heaven grant , that all Sinners take , That course which may them blessed creatures make , That come ye Blessed , with a joyful ear , They from the Judge at that main day may hear . FINIS . Printed at London by E.A. You shall see the full Relation at large in the Book newly Printed . 