A Lamentable Ballad of the Tragical end of a Gallant Lord and a Virtuous Lady ; with the untimely end of their two Children , wickedly performed by a Heathenish Black-a-moort heir Servant : the like never herd of before . TO he une is , The Ladies fallen . I N Room a Noble man did wed , a Virgin of great fame . A fairer creature never did dame nature ever frame ; By whom he had two Children fair , whose beauty did excel : They were their parents only joy , they loved them both so well . The Lord he loved to hunt the Buck , the Tiger and the Boar : And still for swiftness always took , with him a Blackamoor : Which Blackamoor within the wood , his Lord he did offend : For which he did him then correct , in hope he would amend . The day it grew unto and end , then homeward he did haste , Where with his Lady he did rest , until the night was passed : Then in the morning he did rise , and did his servants call ? A hunting he provides to go , straight they were ready all . To Cause the tail the Lady did entreat him not to go ; Alas good Lady , then quoth he , why art thou grieved so ; Content they self I will return , with speed to thee again : Good Father ( quoth the little Babes ) with us here still remain . Farewell dear Children I will go , a fine thing for to buy : But they therewith nothing content , aloud began to cry : The Mother takes them by the hand , saying , come go with me ; Unto the highest Tower , where your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceiving now who then did stay behind : His Lord to be a hunting gone , began to call to mind : My Master he did me correct my fault not being great : Now of his wife i'll be revenged , she shall not me entreat . The place was moted round about , the Bridge he up did draw ; The Gates he bolted very fast , of none he stood in awe : He up into the Tower went , the Lady being there : who when she saw his countenance grim , she straight began to fear . But now my trembling heart it quakes to think what I must write ; My senses all begin to fail , my soul it does affright : Yet must I make and [ end ] of this , which here I have b [ e ] gun , Which will make sad the hardest heart , before that I have done . This Wretch unto the Lady went , and her with speed did will , His lust forthwith to satisfy , his mind for to fulfil : The Lady she amazed was , to hear the Villain speak ; Alas ( quoth she ) what shall I do ? with Grief my heart will break . With that he took her in his arms , she straight for help did cry : Content yourself Lady ( he said ) your Husband is not nigh . The bridge is drawn , the Gates are shut therefore come lie with me , Or else I do protest and vow thy Butcher I will be . The crystal tears ran down her face , her children cried amain , And sought to help their Mother dear , but all it was it vain : For that egregious filthy Rogue , her hands behind her bound And then perforce with all his might , he threw her on the ground . W Ith that she shrieked , her children cried , and such a noise did make , That towns-folks hearing her laments , did seek their parts to take : But all in vain no way was found to help the Ladies need : Who cried to them most piteously , Oh help , Oh help with speed . Some run into the Forest wide , her Lord home for to call , And they that stood still did lament this gallant Ladies fallen . With speed her love came posting home he could not enter in , His Ladies cries did pierce his heart , to call he did begin . O hold thy hand thou savage Moor , to hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure if I do live , wild horses shall thee tear : With that the Rogue ran to the wall , he having had his will , And brought one child under his arm his dearest blood to spill . The Child seeing his Father there , to him for help did call : Oh Father help my Mother dear , we shall be killed all : Then fell the Lord upon his knee , and did the Moor entreat : To save the Life of his poor Child , whose fear as then was great . But this vile wretch the little Child , by both the heels did take , And dashed his brains against the wall , while Parents hearts did ache : That being done straight way he ran the other Child to fetch : And plucked it from the Mother's breast most like a cruel wretch . Within one hand a knife he brought , the Child within the other : And holding it over the Wall , saying , thus die shall thy Mother : With that he cut the throat of it , then to the father he did call : To look how he the head had cut , and down the head did fallen . This done he threw it down the Wall , into the Mote so deep , Which made the Father wring his hands and grievously to weep : Then the to Lady went this Rogue , who was near dead with fear Yet this vile Wretch most cruelly did drag her by the hair . And drew her to the very wall , which when the Lord did see : Then presently he cried out , and fell upon his knee : Quoth he if thou wilt save her Life , whom I do Love so dear : I will forgive thee all is past , though they concern me near . O save her Life I thee beseech , Oh save her I thee pray , And I will grant thee what thou wilt demand of me this day : Well , quoth the Moor I do regard the moan that thou dost make : If thou wilt grant me what I ask , i'll save her for thy sake . O save her Life and then demand , of me what thing thou wilt : Cut off thy Nose , and not one drop , of her blood shall be spilled : With that the Lord presently took , a Knife within his hand : And then his Nose he quite cut off , in place where he did stand . Now I have bought the Ladies Life , then to the Moor did call : Then take her , quod this wicked rogue , and down he let her fallen : Which when her gallant Lord did see , his senses all did fail : Yet many sought to save his Life , yet nothing could prevail . When as the Moor did see him dead , then did he Laugh amain : At them who for their gallant Lord , and Lady did complain : Quoth he I know you'll torture me , if that you can me get , But all your threats I do not fear , nor yet regard one whit . Wild Horses shall my body tear , I know it to be true , But i'll prevent you of that pain , and down himself he threw : Too good a death for such a wretch , a Villain void of fear , And thus does end as sad a tale , as ever Man did hear . Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . A Lamentable Ballad of the Tragical end of a Gallant Lord and a Virtuous Lady ; with the untimely end of their two Children , wickedly performed by a Heathenish Black-a-moort heir Servant : the like never herd of before . TO he une is , The Ladies fallen . I N Room a Noble man did wed , a Virgin of great fame . A fairer creature never did dame nature ever frame ; By whom he had two Children fair , whose beauty did excel : They were their parents only joy , they loved them both so well . The Lord he loved to hunt the Buck , the Tiger and the Boar : And still for swiftness always took , with him a Blackamoor : Which Blackamoor within the wood , his Lord he did offend : For which he did him then correct , in hope he would amend . The day it grew unto and end , then homeward he did haste , Where with his Lady he did rest , until the night was passed : Then in the morning he did rise , and did his servants call ? A hunting he provides to go , straight they were ready all . To Cause the tail the Lady did entreat him not to go ; Alas good Lady , then quoth he , why art thou grieved so ; Content they self I will return , with speed to thee again : Good Father ( quoth the little Babes ) with us here still remain . Farewell dear Children I will go , a fine thing for to buy : But they therewith nothing content , aloud began to cry : The Mother takes them by the hand , saying , come go with me ; Unto the highest Tower , where your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceiving now who then did stay behind : His Lord to be a hunting gone , began to call to mind : My Master he did me correct my fault not being great : Now of his wife i'll be revenged , she shall not me entreat . The place was moted round about , the Bridge he up did draw ; The Gates he bolted very fast , of none he stood in awe : He up into the Tower went , the Lady being there : who when she saw his countenance grim , she straight began to fear . But now my trembling heart it quakes to think what I must write ; My senses all begin to fail , my soul it does affright : Yet must I make and [ end ] of this , which here I have b [ e ] gun , Which will make sad the hardest heart , before that I have done . This Wretch unto the Lady went , and her with speed did will , His lust forthwith to satisfy , his mind for to fulfil : The Lady she amazed was , to hear the Villain speak ; Alas ( quoth she ) what shall I do ? with Grief my heart will break . With that he took her in his arms , she straight for help did cry : Content yourself Lady ( he said ) your Husband is not nigh . The bridge is drawn , the Gates are shut therefore come lie with me , Or else I do protest and vow thy Butcher I will be . The crystal tears ran down her face , her children cried amain , And sought to help their Mother dear , but all it was it vain : For that egregious filthy Rogue , her hands behind her bound And then perforce with all his might , he threw her on the ground . W Ith that she shrieked , her children cried , and such a noise did make , That towns-folks hearing her laments , did seek their parts to take : But all in vain no way was found to help the Ladies need : Who cried to them most piteously , Oh help , Oh help with speed . Some run into the Forest wide , her Lord home for to call , And they that stood still did lament this gallant Ladies fallen . With speed her love came posting home he could not enter in , His Ladies cries did pierce his heart , to call he did begin . O hold thy hand thou savage Moor , to hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure if I do live , wild horses shall thee tear : With that the Rogue ran to the wall , he having had his will , And brought one child under his arm his dearest blood to spill . The Child seeing his Father there , to him for help did call : Oh Father help my Mother dear , we shall be killed all : Then fell the Lord upon his knee , and did the Moor entreat : To save the Life of his poor Child , whose fear as then was great . But this vile wretch the little Child , by both the heels did take , And dashed his brains against the wall , while Parents hearts did ache : That being done straight way he ran the other Child to fetch : And plucked it from the Mother's breast most like a cruel wretch . Within one hand a knife he brought , the Child within the other : And holding it over the Wall , saying , thus die shall thy Mother : With that he cut the throat of it , then to the father he did call : To look how he the head had cut , and down the head did fallen . This done he threw it down the Wall , into the Mote so deep , Which made the Father wring his hands and grievously to weep : Then the to Lady went this Rogue , who was near dead with fear Yet this vile Wretch most cruelly did drag her by the hair . And drew her to the very wall , which when the Lord did see : Then presently he cried out , and fell upon his knee : Quoth he if thou wilt save her Life , whom I do Love so dear : I will forgive thee all is past , though they concern me near . O save her Life I thee beseech , Oh save her I thee pray , And I will grant thee what thou wilt demand of me this day : Well , quoth the Moor I do regard the moan that thou dost make : If thou wilt grant me what I ask , i'll save her for thy sake . O save her Life and then demand , of me what thing thou wilt : Cut off thy Nose , and not one drop , of her blood shall be spilled : With that the Lord presently took , a Knife within his hand : And then his Nose he quite cut off , in place where he did stand . Now I have bought the Ladies Life , then to the Moor did call : Then take her , quod this wicked rogue , and down he let her fallen : Which when her gallant Lord did see , his senses all did fail : Yet many sought to save his Life , yet nothing could prevail . When as the Moor did see him dead , then did he Laugh amain : At them who for their gallant Lord , and Lady did complain : Quoth he I know you'll torture me , if that you can me get , But all your threats I do not fear , nor yet regard one whit . Wild Horses shall my body tear , I know it to be true , But i'll prevent you of that pain , and down himself he threw : Too good a death for such a wretch , a Villain void of fear , And thus does end as sad a tale , as ever Man did hear . Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 