The most Rare and excellent History , Of the Duchess of Suffolks Calamity , To the Tune of , Queen Dido . W Hen God had taken for our since , that prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray : All those that did Gods Word profess , He persecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in Prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards Tower , whereby they might the truth forego : Then Cranmer , Ridley , and the rest , Were burning in the fire , that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with Faggots filled , and many places more beside , At Coventry was Saunders killed , at Worster eke good Hooper died : And to escape this bloody day , Beyond Sea many fled away . among the rest that sought relief , and for their Faith in danger stood , Lady Elizabeth was chief , King Henries Daughter of Royal blood ; Which in the Tower did Prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die . The Duchess of Suffolk seeing this , whose Life likewise the Tyrant sought : Who in the hope's of heavenly bliss , within Gods word her comfort wrought : For fear of Death was fain to fly , And leave her house most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her Land and Goods she left behind : Seeking still for that precious Stone , the Word and Truth so rare to find : She with her Nurse , Husband , and Child , In poor array their sighs beguiled . Thus through London they passed along , each one did take a several street , Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billingsgate they all did meet , Like people poor in Gravesend - Barge . They simply went with all their charge . And all along from Gravesend - Town , with Journeys short on foot they went , Unto the Seacoast came they down , to pass the Seas was their intent : And God provided so that day , That they took Ship and sailed away . And with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders they did safe arrive , This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heavy hearts much woe did drive ; And so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they traveled still disguised , upon the Highway suddenly , By cruel Thieves they were surprised , assailing their small company : And all their treasures and their store They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of their fight , laid down the Child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed , and never after that was found : Then did the Duchess make great moan With her good Husband all alone . The Thieves had there their Horses kill ' [ worser ] and all their money quite had took , The pretty Baby almost spoiled , was by the Nurse likewise forsook : And they far from their friends did stand , And succourless in a strange Land. The Sky likewise began to scowl . it Hailed and Rained in piteous sort , The way was long and wondrous foul , then may I now full well report , Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . S Sometimes the Duchess boar the Child , as wet as ever she could be ; And when the Lady kind and mild was weary , then the Child boar he : And thus they one another eased , And with their fortune's well was pleased . And after many a weary step , all wet-shod both in dirt and mire , After much grief their heart yet leaps , for labour does some rest require : A Town before them they did see , But Lodged there they could not be . From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of money was their woe , and still their Babe with cold did cry ; With cap and knee they courtesy make , But none of them would pity take . Loe here a Princess of great blood does pray a Peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regard her grief : Her speech they could not understand , But gave her money in her hand . When all in vain her speeches spent , and that they could no houseroom get , Into a Church-porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and wet : Then said the Duchess to her Dear , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her Husband so provide , that fire and coals he god with speed : She sat down by the Fire side , to dress her Daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her Husband made the Infant pap . Anon the Sexton thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The drunken Knave , all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire : And spurned forth the Noble Dame , Her Husbands wrath he did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church-keys out of his hand And struck him so that all the blood , his head ran down as he did stand : Wherefore the Sexton presently , For aid and help aloud did cry . Then came the Officers in haste , and took the Duchess and her Child , And with her Husbsnd thus they passed , like Lambs beset with Tigers wild ; And to the Governor were brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then Master Bertue brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misery did unfold , and their high favour did beseech : With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighed ; Unto them all that there did wait , he thus brake forth in words aright : Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Prince of most high degree . With that the Governor and all the rest , were much amazed the same to hear , Who Welcomed this newcome Guest , with reverence great and Princely cheer : And afterwards conveyed they were Unto their Friend , Prince Cassimere . A Son she had in Germany , Peregrine Bertue called by name : Surnamed the good Lord Willoughby , of courage great and worthy fame : Her Daughter young that with her went , was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen M ary was deceased , the Duchess home returned again , Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Elizabeths happy Reign : Whose Godly Life and Piety , We may praise continually . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The most Rare and excellent History , Of the Duchess of Suffolks Calamity , To the Tune of , Queen Dido . W Hen God had taken for our since , that prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray : All those that did Gods Word profess , He persecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in Prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards Tower , whereby they might the truth forego : Then Cranmer , Ridley , and the rest , Were burning in the fire , that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with Faggots filled , and many places more beside , At Coventry was Saunders killed , at Worster eke good Hooper died : And to escape this bloody day , Beyond Sea many fled away . among the rest that sought relief , and for their Faith in danger stood , Lady Elizabeth was chief , King Henries Daughter of Royal blood ; Which in the Tower did Prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die . The Duchess of Suffolk seeing this , whose Life likewise the Tyrant sought : Who in the hope's of heavenly bliss , within Gods word her comfort wrought : For fear of Death was fain to fly , And leave her house most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her Land and Goods she left behind : Seeking still for that precious Stone , the Word and Truth so rare to find : She with her Nurse , Husband , and Child , In poor array their sighs beguiled . Thus through London they passed along , each one did take a several street , Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billingsgate they all did meet , Like people poor in Gravesend - Barge . They simply went with all their charge . And all along from Gravesend - Town , with Journeys short on foot they went , Unto the Seacoast came they down , to pass the Seas was their intent : And God provided so that day , That they took Ship and sailed away . And with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders they did safe arrive , This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heavy hearts much woe did drive ; And so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they traveled still disguised , upon the Highway suddenly , By cruel Thieves they were surprised , assailing their small company : And all their treasures and their store They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of their fight , laid down the Child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed , and never after that was found : Then did the Duchess make great moan With her good Husband all alone . The Thieves had there their Horses kill ' [ worser ] and all their money quite had took , The pretty Baby almost spoiled , was by the Nurse likewise forsook : And they far from their friends did stand , And succourless in a strange Land. The Sky likewise began to scowl . it Hailed and Rained in piteous sort , The way was long and wondrous foul , then may I now full well report , Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . S Sometimes the Duchess boar the Child , as wet as ever she could be ; And when the Lady kind and mild was weary , then the Child boar he : And thus they one another eased , And with their fortune's well was pleased . And after many a weary step , all wet-shod both in dirt and mire , After much grief their heart yet leaps , for labour does some rest require : A Town before them they did see , But Lodged there they could not be . From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of money was their woe , and still their Babe with cold did cry ; With cap and knee they courtesy make , But none of them would pity take . Loe here a Princess of great blood does pray a Peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regard her grief : Her speech they could not understand , But gave her money in her hand . When all in vain her speeches spent , and that they could no houseroom get , Into a Church-porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and wet : Then said the Duchess to her Dear , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her Husband so provide , that fire and coals he god with speed : She sat down by the Fire side , to dress her Daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her Husband made the Infant pap . Anon the Sexton thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The drunken Knave , all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire : And spurned forth the Noble Dame , Her Husbands wrath he did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church-keys out of his hand And struck him so that all the blood , his head ran down as he did stand : Wherefore the Sexton presently , For aid and help aloud did cry . Then came the Officers in haste , and took the Duchess and her Child , And with her Husbsnd thus they passed , like Lambs beset with Tigers wild ; And to the Governor were brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then Master Bertue brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misery did unfold , and their high favour did beseech : With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighed ; Unto them all that there did wait , he thus brake forth in words aright : Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Prince of most high degree . With that the Governor and all the rest , were much amazed the same to hear , Who Welcomed this newcome Guest , with reverence great and Princely cheer : And afterwards conveyed they were Unto their Friend , Prince Cassimere . A Son she had in Germany , Peregrine Bertue called by name : Surnamed the good Lord Willoughby , of courage great and worthy fame : Her Daughter young that with her went , was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen M ary was deceased , the Duchess home returned again , Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Elizabeths happy Reign : Whose Godly Life and Piety , We may praise continually . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 