TO : A Scourge for the POPE , Satirically scourging the itching sides of his obstinate Brood , in ENGLAND . To the tune of Room for etc A disguised Jesuite . F Amous Brittany , Give thanks to God on high , Who hath delivered thee from Popish fictions : Thy Religion free , With Gods Word does agree , While Romes false doctrine imply contradictions : With subtle intrusion , They sought Truths confusion , I trust , the conclusion will frustrate their hope . Our King does defy them , Our Commons descry them , It's fit they should high them away to the Pope . Where are the Jesuites , That late were so arrogant , That they would needs take upon them to teach us ? In every corner Seducing the ignorant , But now I hope they no more shall overreach us . They are best be packing , Their power is slacking , Unless they love cracking their necks in a rope . [ ? Truth ] is manifested , [ ? ] [ m ] olested ; [ ? ] [ ? ] tested , [ ? ] Pope . Long have they looked To get toleration , But God kept the heart of our King in his Hand . That would have wrought Our Truth's extirpation , If they had divulged their lies through the Land : But now it's otherwise , All popish trumperies , With feigned forgeries , shall have no scope . Our Laws will prevent them , And shrewdly torment them , Theres none to content them , so soon as the Pope . You found Papists , That late were seduced , In time be resolved to make recantation , That your poor souls may Again be reduced Unto his blessed Gospel , who bought your salvation . Shake hands , and bid adue To that deceitful crew : What pity this that you [ in ] blindness grope ! Make haste , and come from thence , Submit for your offen [ ce ] , Put no more confiden [ ce ] in the false Pop [ e ] . Now we shall have No secret Assemblies , Nor meeting houses to celebrate Mass : Now the Jesuit [ es ] With fear made to tremble is , To think what strange events will come to pass . This great vexation , Beyond expectation , A strange alteration hath bred in their hope : They Arguments framed , And privilege claimed , But now they are tamed , and fly to the Pope . All Professors true , Lately were soar afraid , For fear the Papists would get some permission , To have free use of their Seditious lying trade , But now I hope there's no cause of suspicio [ n ] , Our Parliament Royal , Will give them denial , A means to destroy all their causes of hope . Our King will requited th [ em ] And worthily fit them Their best way's to [ ? ] with speed to the [ Pope ] The second Part. To the same tune . F Arewell Massmongers , With all your juggling tricks , Your puppet plays will not here be allowed . Have me commended Unto your great Pontifex , Tell him , Saint Peter was never so proud : And say , this needful , That he should be heedful Lest Gods Judgements dreadful do light on his Cope : Dominic , nor Francis , Whom Room so advances , Cannot from mischances secure the proud Pope . Our good King is The pattern of piety , And well deserveth his Style , Faiths Defender . He , like a Shepherd Ordained by the Deity , His Flocks most safely will nourish and tender : The Pope he excludeth , Though oft he intrudeth : Yet like zealous Judeth , his head he will crop : Like good Hezekias , And fervent Josias , He serves the Messias , and hates the Pope . Then , Professors true , Pluck up a courage good , Fear the Lord truly , dread not your foes : Keep your faith still pure , And do not spare your blood , Let not the Papists delude you with shows . Give no permission To Romes superstition , Upon no condition , of promise or hope . Let due execution , And stout resolution , Expel all pollution , that springs from the Pope . That we may effect What we desire to see , Let us to God direct our supplications . For our dread Sovereign , Under whose Majesty , We do enjoy the true means of Salvation : Give him strength to subdue , Antichrist and his crew , With zeal Prince Charles endu our second hope : Good Lord , be thou present , In our high Parliament , That none may give consent to love the Pope . FINIS . Per me Martin Parker London printed for John Trun [ dle ] and are to be sold at his Shop in Smithfield . TO : A Scourge for the POPE , Satirically scourging the itching sides of his obstinate Brood , in ENGLAND . To the tune of Room for etc A disguised Jesuite . F Amous Brittany , Give thanks to God on high , Who hath delivered thee from Popish fictions : Thy Religion free , With Gods Word does agree , While Romes false doctrine imply contradictions : With subtle intrusion , They sought Truths confusion , I trust , the conclusion will frustrate their hope . Our King does defy them , Our Commons descry them , It's fit they should high them away to the Pope . Where are the Jesuites , That late were so arrogant , That they would needs take upon them to teach us ? In every corner Seducing the ignorant , But now I hope they no more shall overreach us . They are best be packing , Their power is slacking , Unless they love cracking their necks in a rope . [ ? Truth ] is manifested , [ ? ] [ m ] olested ; [ ? ] [ ? ] tested , [ ? ] Pope . Long have they looked To get toleration , But God kept the heart of our King in his Hand . That would have wrought Our Truth's extirpation , If they had divulged their lies through the Land : But now it's otherwise , All popish trumperies , With feigned forgeries , shall have no scope . Our Laws will prevent them , And shrewdly torment them , Theres none to content them , so soon as the Pope . You found Papists , That late were seduced , In time be resolved to make recantation , That your poor souls may Again be reduced Unto his blessed Gospel , who bought your salvation . Shake hands , and bid adue To that deceitful crew : What pity this that you [ in ] blindness grope ! Make haste , and come from thence , Submit for your offen [ ce ] , Put no more confiden [ ce ] in the false Pop [ e ] . Now we shall have No secret Assemblies , Nor meeting houses to celebrate Mass : Now the Jesuit [ es ] With fear made to tremble is , To think what strange events will come to pass . This great vexation , Beyond expectation , A strange alteration hath bred in their hope : They Arguments framed , And privilege claimed , But now they are tamed , and fly to the Pope . All Professors true , Lately were soar afraid , For fear the Papists would get some permission , To have free use of their Seditious lying trade , But now I hope there's no cause of suspicio [ n ] , Our Parliament Royal , Will give them denial , A means to destroy all their causes of hope . Our King will requited th [ em ] And worthily fit them Their best way's to [ ? ] with speed to the [ Pope ] The second Part. To the same tune . F Arewell Massmongers , With all your juggling tricks , Your puppet plays will not here be allowed . Have me commended Unto your great Pontifex , Tell him , Saint Peter was never so proud : And say , this needful , That he should be heedful Lest Gods Judgements dreadful do light on his Cope : Dominic , nor Francis , Whom Room so advances , Cannot from mischances secure the proud Pope . Our good King is The pattern of piety , And well deserveth his Style , Faiths Defender . He , like a Shepherd Ordained by the Deity , His Flocks most safely will nourish and tender : The Pope he excludeth , Though oft he intrudeth : Yet like zealous Judeth , his head he will crop : Like good Hezekias , And fervent Josias , He serves the Messias , and hates the Pope . Then , Professors true , Pluck up a courage good , Fear the Lord truly , dread not your foes : Keep your faith still pure , And do not spare your blood , Let not the Papists delude you with shows . Give no permission To Romes superstition , Upon no condition , of promise or hope . Let due execution , And stout resolution , Expel all pollution , that springs from the Pope . That we may effect What we desire to see , Let us to God direct our supplications . For our dread Sovereign , Under whose Majesty , We do enjoy the true means of Salvation : Give him strength to subdue , Antichrist and his crew , With zeal Prince Charles endu our second hope : Good Lord , be thou present , In our high Parliament , That none may give consent to love the Pope . FINIS . Per me Martin Parker London printed for John Trun [ dle ] and are to be sold at his Shop in Smithfield . 