A battle of Birds Most strangely fought in Ireland , upon the eight day of September last , 1621 . where near unto the City of Cork , by the river Lee , wear gathered together such a multitude of Stares , or Starlings , as the like for number , was never seen in any age . To the tune of Shores wife . Or to the tune of Bonny Nell . M Ark well , Gods wondrous works , and see , what things therein declared be , Such things as may with trembling fear , fright all the world , the same to hear : or like to these , which here I tell , oh man alive remember well . The eight day of September last , which made all Ireland much aghast : Were seen ( near Cork ) such flights of Birds , whose numbers , cannot well by words , counted be : for greater store , as never seen , nor known before . The flights , so many legions seemed , as thousand thousands they were deemed , All [ soaring ] up , along the sky , as if the battle were on high : in multytudes , without compare , which like black clouds , made dim the are . First from the eastern skies appeared , a flight [ of ] Stares , which greatly feared , The p [ eo ] ple there the same to see , as like could not remembered be : for they in war [ like ] squadrons flew , as if they others would pursue . And as this flight , thus hovering lay , prepared all in battle ray : From out the west , another came , as great in number as the same , and there opposed in warlike might , themselves against the other flight . Whereas these Stares , or starling Birds , for want of Helmetts , Glaves and Swords , They used their Talents , Bills , and Bekaes , and such a battle undertakes : that trembling fear and terror brought , to all which saw this battle fought . For first , the Eastern flight sat down , with chattering noise upon the ground , As if they challenged , all the rest , to meet and fight even breast to breast , where presently was herd from far , the same like chattering found of war . And there upon the western flight , down by the eastern Birds did light , Where after they a while had set , together in their Birdlike chat , they all upon asudaine rose , and each the other did oppose . The second part , to the same tune A Nd filling thus the Azure sky with these their troops up mounted high , They seemed more thick , then moats ith Sun , a dreadful battle there begun : and in their kind more strongly fought , then can immagened be by thought . Thousands of thousands , on a heap , upon the others backs did leap , With all their forced strengths and might , to put their Birdlike foes to flight : and as it were in battle ray , long time they kept them , thus in play . To fight this battle in the air , their bills and beaks their weapons were , Which they performed in such a sort , as makes me doubtful to report : that silly Birds should thus arise , and fight so fiercely in the skies . But so it was and strange withal , that Birds should thus at discord fallen , And never cease , till they had slain , thousands , stark dead upon the plain : where people took them up in fear , a thing most strange to see and hear . With broken wings , some fell to ground , and some poor silly Birds were found , With eyes picked out , struck down half dead , and some no brains left in their head , but battered forth , and killed out right , most strangely in this ayery fight . Yet long with loud and chattering cries , each company gainst other flies : With bloody beaks , remorseless still , their feathered foes to main or kill , where while this battle did remain their bodies fell like dropes of rain . Thousands were to the City born , with wounded limbs , and bodies torn : For all the fields were overspread , with mangled starlings that lay dead , in blood and feathers strange to see , which men took up abundantly . It was a wonder to explain , the number of them hurt and slain , And being a wonder let it rest , the Lord above he knoweth best : what these poor creatures did intend , when thus to battle they did bend . But such a battle never was fought , by silly Birds which have no thought : In doing ill , nor any mind , to work contrary to their kind , but yet as nature gave them life , so here they strangely fell at strife . What now for truth is published forth esteem it as a news of worth : And by the wonder of their days , learn to leave off all wicked ways , for sure it is that God it sent , that of our sins we should repent . FINIS . Printed in London by W . IA battle of Birds Most strangely fought in Ireland , upon the eight day of September last , 1621 . where near unto the City of Cork , by the river Lee , wear gathered together such a multitude of Stares , or Starlings , as the like for number , was never seen in any age . To the tune of Shores wife . Or to the tune of Bonny Nell . M Ark well , Gods wondrous works , and see , what things therein declared be , Such things as may with trembling fear , fright all the world , the same to hear : or like to these , which here I tell , oh man alive remember well . The eight day of September last , which made all Ireland much aghast : Were seen ( near Cork ) such flights of Birds , whose numbers , cannot well by words , counted be : for greater store , as never seen , nor known before . The flights , so many legions seemed , as thousand thousands they were deemed , All [ soaring ] up , along the sky , as if the battle were on high : in multytudes , without compare , which like black clouds , made dim the are . First from the eastern skies appeared , a flight [ of ] Stares , which greatly feared , The p [ eo ] ple there the same to see , as like could not remembered be : for they in war [ like ] squadrons flew , as if they others would pursue . And as this flight , thus hovering lay , prepared all in battle ray : From out the west , another came , as great in number as the same , and there opposed in warlike might , themselves against the other flight . Whereas these Stares , or starling Birds , for want of Helmetts , Glaves and Swords , They used their Talents , Bills , and Bekaes , and such a battle undertakes : that trembling fear and terror brought , to all which saw this battle fought . For first , the Eastern flight sat down , with chattering noise upon the ground , As if they challenged , all the rest , to meet and fight even breast to breast , where presently was herd from far , the same like chattering found of war . And there upon the western flight , down by the eastern Birds did light , Where after they a while had set , together in their Birdlike chat , they all upon asudaine rose , and each the other did oppose . The second part , to the same tune A Nd filling thus the Azure sky with these their troops up mounted high , They seemed more thick , then moats ith Sun , a dreadful battle there begun : and in their kind more strongly fought , then can immagened be by thought . Thousands of thousands , on a heap , upon the others backs did leap , With all their forced strengths and might , to put their Birdlike foes to flight : and as it were in battle ray , long time they kept them , thus in play . To fight this battle in the air , their bills and beaks their weapons were , Which they performed in such a sort , as makes me doubtful to report : that silly Birds should thus arise , and fight so fiercely in the skies . But so it was and strange withal , that Birds should thus at discord fallen , And never cease , till they had slain , thousands , stark dead upon the plain : where people took them up in fear , a thing most strange to see and hear . With broken wings , some fell to ground , and some poor silly Birds were found , With eyes picked out , struck down half dead , and some no brains left in their head , but battered forth , and killed out right , most strangely in this ayery fight . Yet long with loud and chattering cries , each company gainst other flies : With bloody beaks , remorseless still , their feathered foes to main or kill , where while this battle did remain their bodies fell like dropes of rain . Thousands were to the City born , with wounded limbs , and bodies torn : For all the fields were overspread , with mangled starlings that lay dead , in blood and feathers strange to see , which men took up abundantly . It was a wonder to explain , the number of them hurt and slain , And being a wonder let it rest , the Lord above he knoweth best : what these poor creatures did intend , when thus to battle they did bend . But such a battle never was fought , by silly Birds which have no thought : In doing ill , nor any mind , to work contrary to their kind , but yet as nature gave them life , so here they strangely fell at strife . What now for truth is published forth esteem it as a news of worth : And by the wonder of their days , learn to leave off all wicked ways , for sure it is that God it sent , that of our sins we should repent . FINIS . Printed in London by W . I 