A wonder beyond men expectation , In the preservation of eight men in Greenland from one season to another , the like never known or herd of before , which eight men are come all safely from thence in this last Fleet , 1631. whose names are these , William Fakely Gunner , Edward Pellham , Gun - ners Mate , John Wise , Robert Goodfellow Seamen , Thomas Ayers Whalecutter , Henry Rett Cooper , John Dawes , Richard Kellet Landmen . To the tune of Jasper Coningham . TO O England comes strange tidings , from Greenland of eight men , Who there had their abidings , till season came again : Beyond men expectation , ( as you shall understand ) Was their strange preservation , within that barren land . Where nothing for mane sustenance , most part o'th year does grow , No Sun at all on them did glance , the hills are hid with Snow : White Bears and Foxes monstrous , and other savage beasts , Within that Barren wilderness , upon each other feasts . So that in men conjecture , no man could there live long , But God the great Protector , of all both old and young , Did show his wondrous power , in helping these men there , Whom beasts did not devour , nor hunger pinch too near . These men abroad there wandered , to hunt for Venison there , Mean while the royal standard from heaven did appear , I mean the Star so constant , which when they do perceive , They must perforce that instant hoist Sails and take their leave . The Captain he commanding his men to go aboard , Alas there was no standing , the time would not afford , So that these men being absent , were left behind on shore Because no time they had lent to linger any more . But when these men returned , and found the ship was gone , Alas their hearts then burned , with woe they we forlorn : In piteous wise lamenting , their hard and heavy fate , At last they all consenting , ( to grieve it was too late . ) Then one man best experienced in policy and cunning , The rest to try their wits incensed , quoth he , here is no running : And seeing we are left here in this unfertile place , Let's doe our best with hearty cheer , the rest leave to Gods grace . Then with this resolution they firmly all agreed . To search out the conclusion , and try how they could speed : A Cave they dug i'th ground then , to shroud them from the cold , Wherein they lived found men , most wondrous to behold . Their Venison they dry baked , which served them for bred , For drink their thirst they slaked with Snow water , in stead Of English Beer and French Wine : to warm them they did burn Three hundred Tun of Casks , which stood there for their tarn . The flesh of Bears they boiled , in stead of powdered Beef , Their lives had all been spoiled , but for this course relief , In oil which they had left there , with shirts and other clothes . They made lamps to burn most clear , believe it on their oaths . And when their food was near spent and fearing they should want Vittaile for the remaining time , they did begin to scant Themselves and feed but once a day , thus spare they did their meat , And fasting days they did observe , on which they nought did eat . In this their extremity , when they did famine fear , They spied to Sea horses that unto them were near , And killed them as they asleep on the [ ? ] were set to rest , Which fish much comfort gave these men so soar oppressed . The second part To the same tune . W Hen much danger by these men they had passed over , much harm They did receive for want of clothes , wherewith to keep them warm , For by time , and their toiling their clothes were worn bore , And torn , that they could not keep out the piercing air . But misery that makes men industrious , was so kind , To furnish them with a trick to keep them from the wind : Their needle of Whale's bone [ . ] untwisted Ropes their thread , They sowed their clothes , & amp ; handsomely their bodies covered . Foure of them watched only , while the other foure did sleep , Thus constantly and truly their hours they did keep , Elsed had been impossible , they should themselves sustain . Thus they were never idle , but still were taking pain . The Sabbath day they observed , and spent it piously , Yet not as they desired , nor yet so zealously No they would have been willing that holy day to keep , Because they had not any book to keep their eyes from sleep . Thus in that strange fashion , they lived in that place , Till the ships of our English Nation , keeping their wonted space , Did come again and view them , clad with the skins of Bears , The Captain hardly knew them , his heart was full of fears . But when he truly found them so unexpectedly , To be all perfect found men , he praised God on high Who had so well preserved these men of courage bold , Whom he thought to be starved with hunger and with cold . Now having passed these dangers , they are come safe from thnce , And all both friends and strangers , not sparing for expense , Are joyful for to see them , landing in their behalf , That God which did free them , and brought them home so safe . So long they there had tarried , until two of their wives Were in their absence married , not hoping of their lives . This was the Lords own doing , to him be given praise For this strange wonder showing , admired in our days . Printed for H. Gosson . A wonder beyond men expectation , In the preservation of eight men in Greenland from one season to another , the like never known or herd of before , which eight men are come all safely from thence in this last Fleet , 1631. whose names are these , William Fakely Gunner , Edward Pellham , Gun - ners Mate , John Wise , Robert Goodfellow Seamen , Thomas Ayers Whalecutter , Henry Rett Cooper , John Dawes , Richard Kellet Landmen . To the tune of Jasper Coningham . TO O England comes strange tidings , from Greenland of eight men , Who there had their abidings , till season came again : Beyond men expectation , ( as you shall understand ) Was their strange preservation , within that barren land . Where nothing for mane sustenance , most part o'th year does grow , No Sun at all on them did glance , the hills are hid with Snow : White Bears and Foxes monstrous , and other savage beasts , Within that Barren wilderness , upon each other feasts . So that in men conjecture , no man could there live long , But God the great Protector , of all both old and young , Did show his wondrous power , in helping these men there , Whom beasts did not devour , nor hunger pinch too near . These men abroad there wandered , to hunt for Venison there , Mean while the royal standard from heaven did appear , I mean the Star so constant , which when they do perceive , They must perforce that instant hoist Sails and take their leave . The Captain he commanding his men to go aboard , Alas there was no standing , the time would not afford , So that these men being absent , were left behind on shore Because no time they had lent to linger any more . But when these men returned , and found the ship was gone , Alas their hearts then burned , with woe they we forlorn : In piteous wise lamenting , their hard and heavy fate , At last they all consenting , ( to grieve it was too late . ) Then one man best experienced in policy and cunning , The rest to try their wits incensed , quoth he , here is no running : And seeing we are left here in this unfertile place , Let's doe our best with hearty cheer , the rest leave to Gods grace . Then with this resolution they firmly all agreed . To search out the conclusion , and try how they could speed : A Cave they dug i'th ground then , to shroud them from the cold , Wherein they lived found men , most wondrous to behold . Their Venison they dry baked , which served them for bred , For drink their thirst they slaked with Snow water , in stead Of English Beer and French Wine : to warm them they did burn Three hundred Tun of Casks , which stood there for their tarn . The flesh of Bears they boiled , in stead of powdered Beef , Their lives had all been spoiled , but for this course relief , In oil which they had left there , with shirts and other clothes . They made lamps to burn most clear , believe it on their oaths . And when their food was near spent and fearing they should want Vittaile for the remaining time , they did begin to scant Themselves and feed but once a day , thus spare they did their meat , And fasting days they did observe , on which they nought did eat . In this their extremity , when they did famine fear , They spied to Sea horses that unto them were near , And killed them as they asleep on the [ ? ] were set to rest , Which fish much comfort gave these men so soar oppressed . The second part To the same tune . W Hen much danger by these men they had passed over , much harm They did receive for want of clothes , wherewith to keep them warm , For by time , and their toiling their clothes were worn bore , And torn , that they could not keep out the piercing air . But misery that makes men industrious , was so kind , To furnish them with a trick to keep them from the wind : Their needle of Whale's bone [ . ] untwisted Ropes their thread , They sowed their clothes , & amp ; handsomely their bodies covered . Foure of them watched only , while the other foure did sleep , Thus constantly and truly their hours they did keep , Elsed had been impossible , they should themselves sustain . Thus they were never idle , but still were taking pain . The Sabbath day they observed , and spent it piously , Yet not as they desired , nor yet so zealously No they would have been willing that holy day to keep , Because they had not any book to keep their eyes from sleep . Thus in that strange fashion , they lived in that place , Till the ships of our English Nation , keeping their wonted space , Did come again and view them , clad with the skins of Bears , The Captain hardly knew them , his heart was full of fears . But when he truly found them so unexpectedly , To be all perfect found men , he praised God on high Who had so well preserved these men of courage bold , Whom he thought to be starved with hunger and with cold . Now having passed these dangers , they are come safe from thnce , And all both friends and strangers , not sparing for expense , Are joyful for to see them , landing in their behalf , That God which did free them , and brought them home so safe . So long they there had tarried , until two of their wives Were in their absence married , not hoping of their lives . This was the Lords own doing , to him be given praise For this strange wonder showing , admired in our days . Printed for H. Gosson . 