The two faithful Friends . The pleasant History of Alexander and Lodwicke , who were so like one anon there , that none could know them asunder : wherein is declared how Lodwike married the Princess of Hungaria in Alexanders name , and how each night he laid a naked sword between him and the Princess , because he would not wrong his friend . To the tune of Flying Fame . TO He Emperor of Germany , a turney did Proclaim : Where many Princes of renown , resorted to the same , among the rest Prince Lodowike came and Guido Prince of Spaine ; Prince Alexander likewise came great honours to obtain . The Emperor's promise was to give to him that wone the day , His only daughter as his bride : the Story thus does say ; The Champions entered the field , with carriage stout and bold : Lodowike of France , most manfully whose Armour shined like gold . Prince Alexander was the next that entered in the field , And like a champion stout and bold ; he did advance his shield : The haughty Spaniard with the rest his valour there did show , But Alexander by his strength , gave him the overthrow . The valiant Prince of Hungary brave Alexander he , From all the champions in the field he wone the victory : Thus he by valour did obtain the Princess from them all , But yet in Hungary she lived that had his heart in thrall . The Emperor his promise kept , and to the Conqueror gave : His only daughter for his wife whom Lodwicke most did crave ; For love had so inflamed his thoughts and set his heart on fire : That for to gain the Princess love it was his chief desire . This Alexander was so like to Lodwick Prince of France , That he so lately had or'throwne by Fate and fortune's chance : None could distinguish them aright or know one from the other , In shape stature and countenance ; as if they had been brother's . Which bred such love betwixt them both as could not be divorced , Yet fortune's frown , and fickle chance asunder them in forced : Prince Alexander gave his friend the Emperors daughter free , Which he before had wone in field : by manly Chivalry . The envious Spaniard being vexed and tortured in his mind , He and the devil devised how to cross these lovers kind : He to the Emperor accused the Princess of base Lust And vowed with sword for to maintain these accusations Just . The second part . To the same tune . P Rince Lodwick being thus accused , by Guydo Prince of Spaine , His friend Prince Alexander then this combat did maintain : And sent his friend Prince Lodwick straight to Hungary with speed , There in his room for to possess the high Imperial weed . Friend Lodwick , Alexander said , go thou to Hungary , Against the Spaniard I'll maintain thy cause most manfully : The King I understand is dead , go then and in my place , Possess the Crown and dignity , and all the Royal grace . That they will there bestow on thee , let it not be denyd ; His daughter likewise in my name make her thy wedded bride : But by our friendship I entreat , this kindness at thy hands : That thou by no means vyolate true constancies chaste bans . Although thou wed her as thy wife , yet know this in my name , Let her remain a virgin pure I do request the same : Because my heart she has in hold , and love her as my life : Away be gone thou knowest my mind leave me to end this strife . Prince Lodwike now is on his way , and Alexander he , By fortune's aid the Spaniard slew , and set the Princes free : Lodwicke in Alexanders name received in Hungary , The Crown , & amp ; likewise in the Church his wife received he . But every night between them twain his naked sword he'd lay , Such constant friendship at that time his heart and thoughts did sway : Prince Alexander came himself then Lodwike took his leave , Of Alexander his deer friend which did him not deceive . The Queen in heart was vexed soar that she so long should lie , With him that was her husband deer and not Loves pastimes try : Unto a Lord she made her moan , and they both did agree : To be revenged upon the King and poisoned he should be . The poison took not full effect but brake forth on his face , That he a leper did appear and then in great disgrace : They kicked & amp ; spurned him from the court , thus in most shameful manner , He was compelled to beg for food that lately lived in honour . To Lodwiks Court he did repair thus like a leper poor ; And for relief he did entreat at his friend Lodwiks door : A Ring he sent unto his friend , who well the same did know ; And came in love to greet his friend willing to ease his woe . Quoth Alexander unto him , kind friend there is no way To ease my pain unless that thou thy loving babes do slay : What i'st but I will do for thee , quoth Lodwike by and by , To ease my friend of this great pain , my pretty babes shall die . For which he to the cradle goes , where they were fast asleep , And with a knife he lets them blood his promise for to keep ; And with their bloods he washed the sores from Alexanders face , Thus he like to a loyal friend the path of Love did trace . Thus Alexander being cleared , of all his torturing pain , Lodwike unto his Queen made known how he his babes had slain This news did grieve her at the heart , but straight she runs to see : Whither that it was so or no it proved the contrary . For both the babes she found alive , as God would have it so , Which did revive her drooping heart , now joys exceeds all woe : King Alexander being well to Hungary he goes ; And Lodwike his beloved friend to overthrow his foes . The victory they soon obtained , and took the Lord and Queen , And doomed them to such cruel death's as yet had not been seen : King Alexander again was Crowned , by help of his good friend , Their griefs to joys converted were , their pleasures did transcend . London Printed for Henry Gosson . The two faithful Friends . The pleasant History of Alexander and Lodwicke , who were so like one anon there , that none could know them asunder : wherein is declared how Lodwike married the Princess of Hungaria in Alexanders name , and how each night he laid a naked sword between him and the Princess , because he would not wrong his friend . To the tune of Flying Fame . TO He Emperor of Germany , a turney did Proclaim : Where many Princes of renown , resorted to the same , among the rest Prince Lodowike came and Guido Prince of Spaine ; Prince Alexander likewise came great honours to obtain . The Emperor's promise was to give to him that wone the day , His only daughter as his bride : the Story thus does say ; The Champions entered the field , with carriage stout and bold : Lodowike of France , most manfully whose Armour shined like gold . Prince Alexander was the next that entered in the field , And like a champion stout and bold ; he did advance his shield : The haughty Spaniard with the rest his valour there did show , But Alexander by his strength , gave him the overthrow . The valiant Prince of Hungary brave Alexander he , From all the champions in the field he wone the victory : Thus he by valour did obtain the Princess from them all , But yet in Hungary she lived that had his heart in thrall . The Emperor his promise kept , and to the Conqueror gave : His only daughter for his wife whom Lodwicke most did crave ; For love had so inflamed his thoughts and set his heart on fire : That for to gain the Princess love it was his chief desire . This Alexander was so like to Lodwick Prince of France , That he so lately had or'throwne by Fate and fortune's chance : None could distinguish them aright or know one from the other , In shape stature and countenance ; as if they had been brother's . Which bred such love betwixt them both as could not be divorced , Yet fortune's frown , and fickle chance asunder them in forced : Prince Alexander gave his friend the Emperors daughter free , Which he before had wone in field : by manly Chivalry . The envious Spaniard being vexed and tortured in his mind , He and the devil devised how to cross these lovers kind : He to the Emperor accused the Princess of base Lust And vowed with sword for to maintain these accusations Just . The second part . To the same tune . P Rince Lodwick being thus accused , by Guydo Prince of Spaine , His friend Prince Alexander then this combat did maintain : And sent his friend Prince Lodwick straight to Hungary with speed , There in his room for to possess the high Imperial weed . Friend Lodwick , Alexander said , go thou to Hungary , Against the Spaniard I'll maintain thy cause most manfully : The King I understand is dead , go then and in my place , Possess the Crown and dignity , and all the Royal grace . That they will there bestow on thee , let it not be denyd ; His daughter likewise in my name make her thy wedded bride : But by our friendship I entreat , this kindness at thy hands : That thou by no means vyolate true constancies chaste bans . Although thou wed her as thy wife , yet know this in my name , Let her remain a virgin pure I do request the same : Because my heart she has in hold , and love her as my life : Away be gone thou knowest my mind leave me to end this strife . Prince Lodwike now is on his way , and Alexander he , By fortune's aid the Spaniard slew , and set the Princes free : Lodwicke in Alexanders name received in Hungary , The Crown , & amp ; likewise in the Church his wife received he . But every night between them twain his naked sword he'd lay , Such constant friendship at that time his heart and thoughts did sway : Prince Alexander came himself then Lodwike took his leave , Of Alexander his deer friend which did him not deceive . The Queen in heart was vexed soar that she so long should lie , With him that was her husband deer and not Loves pastimes try : Unto a Lord she made her moan , and they both did agree : To be revenged upon the King and poisoned he should be . The poison took not full effect but brake forth on his face , That he a leper did appear and then in great disgrace : They kicked & amp ; spurned him from the court , thus in most shameful manner , He was compelled to beg for food that lately lived in honour . To Lodwiks Court he did repair thus like a leper poor ; And for relief he did entreat at his friend Lodwiks door : A Ring he sent unto his friend , who well the same did know ; And came in love to greet his friend willing to ease his woe . Quoth Alexander unto him , kind friend there is no way To ease my pain unless that thou thy loving babes do slay : What i'st but I will do for thee , quoth Lodwike by and by , To ease my friend of this great pain , my pretty babes shall die . For which he to the cradle goes , where they were fast asleep , And with a knife he lets them blood his promise for to keep ; And with their bloods he washed the sores from Alexanders face , Thus he like to a loyal friend the path of Love did trace . Thus Alexander being cleared , of all his torturing pain , Lodwike unto his Queen made known how he his babes had slain This news did grieve her at the heart , but straight she runs to see : Whither that it was so or no it proved the contrary . For both the babes she found alive , as God would have it so , Which did revive her drooping heart , now joys exceeds all woe : King Alexander being well to Hungary he goes ; And Lodwike his beloved friend to overthrow his foes . The victory they soon obtained , and took the Lord and Queen , And doomed them to such cruel death's as yet had not been seen : King Alexander again was Crowned , by help of his good friend , Their griefs to joys converted were , their pleasures did transcend . London Printed for Henry Gosson . 