A brave warlike Song . Containing a brief rehearsal of the deeds of Chivalry , perfor - med by the Nine Worthies of the world , the seaven Champions of Christendome , with many other remarkable Warriors . To the tune of List lusty Gallants . O F noble Warriors my warlike muse will treat , Who by their strength and valours , performed wonders great : And made their names for ever to live by worthy fame , I'll do my best endeavour , some of the chief to name , Saint George for England , Saint Denis for France , Saint Patricke for Ireland , whom Irishmen advance , Saint Anthonie for Italie , Saint James was born in Cales , Saint Andrew is for Scotland ; and Saint David is for Wales . And first the bold Duke Joshua , chief General of the Jewes , The enemies of Israel by Prowess he subdues , Five Kings one day he hanged , and to effect his will , The Sun within the Firmament , did at his prayer stand still , Saint George for England , etc David by election a Prophet and a King , He slew the great Goliah with a stone out of a sling . A Bear and a Lion , in fight he also slew , His enemies the Philistines , he bravely did subdue . Saint George , etc . Judas Machabeus , the son of Matathyas Opposed King Antiochus , and mighty Demetrius , Lysias and Tymotheus , Gorgeas and Nicanor , Were by him slain or vanquished : thus Israel god honour Saint George for England , etc Arthur King of Brittaine , with his Round-table Knights In honour of our Nation , fought many famous fights , The valiant Sir Tristram , and Sir Lancelot Du lake , Did make the foes ef Brittaine , in those days soar to quake , Saint George for England , Godfrey Duke of Boloigne and Baldwin Earl of Fanders Over the Christian armies were principal Commanders , The City of Jerusalem , they from the Pagans took , He might have raignde in P alestine , but he that style forsook Saint George for England , etc . Charlemaine the Emperor , and mighty King of France , The honour of his Saviour did wondrously advance , The Heathen Gothes and Vandals from Christendome he chaste . And for Gods true Religion he many dangers past , Saint George for England Saint Denis for France , Saint Anthonie for Italie , etc Great Alexander , the king of Macedon , In less then thirteene years space most of the world he wone . And Caesar from Dictator Romes Emperor became , He conquered France and Britany to get himself a name . Saint George , etc . Hector the son of Priam , the Prince and pride of Troy , He all his life preserved the City from annoy , But when by bold Achilles , he traitorously was slain , Brave Troy did go to ruin , and at the last was taken Saint George for England , Saint Denis for France , Saint Patricke for Ireland , whom Irishmen advance , Saint Anthonie for Italie , Saint James was born in Cales , Saint Andrew is for Scotland ; and Saint David is for Wales . The second Part. Containing other brave Warriors not ranked among the Worthies , though as worthy . To the same tune . TO He worthy Scythian Warrior , who from a Shepherd Swain , Did come to be instyled the mighty Tamberlane , He kept the Turkish Emperor still in and Iron Cage , Six Kings did draw his Chariot his like lived in no age . Saint George , etc . Likewise Richard the first sometime King of this Land , He slew a mighty Lion , even with his naked hand , With manly force and valour , he the Lyons heart did tear , And killed the Duke of Austria , with a box upon the ear . Saint George for England , etc . Also brave Edward King , ( since Williams reign ) the third The Realm of France he vanquished , and wone by dint of Sword , And likewise the fift Henry , at Agencourt did foil , The French King and his Chivalry , and brought away the spoil . Saint George , etc . The noble Earl of Warwicke , that called was Sir Guy , Against the wicked Infidels , his valour he did try : He fought with Giant Colbrand , and wounded him to death Also he killed the Dun-cow , the Devil of Dunsmoreheath : Saint George for England , etc . Bevis conquered Ascapart , and slew two might Boars , And then he passed over the seas , to combat with the Moors : For love of beauteous Josian , which was and heathen Dame , He fought in many a battle to win a lasting name . Saint George , etc . Walworth Mayor of London in second Richards days , By killing of Wat Tyler did win eternal praise , In midst of his army the Rebel bold he tam'de , For which all his Successors be Lord Mayors of London nam'de . Saint George , etc . Cumberland and Essex , Norris and brave Drake , I'th reign of Queen Elizabeth did many battles make . Adventurous Martin Frobisher , with Hawkins and some more , From sea did bring great riches unto our English shore . Saint George , etc . Bold Richard Pike of Tavistoke , a town in Devonshire , Did combat with three Spaniards , and came off fair and clear , Theres many other warriors , whose names I will not tell . Lest too prolix my Song should be , and so , kind Friends , Farewell . Saint George , etc . Printed at London for Fr Coules . A brave warlike Song . Containing a brief rehearsal of the deeds of Chivalry , perfor - med by the Nine Worthies of the world , the seaven Champions of Christendome , with many other remarkable Warriors . To the tune of List lusty Gallants . O F noble Warriors my warlike muse will treat , Who by their strength and valours , performed wonders great : And made their names for ever to live by worthy fame , I'll do my best endeavour , some of the chief to name , Saint George for England , Saint Denis for France , Saint Patricke for Ireland , whom Irishmen advance , Saint Anthonie for Italie , Saint James was born in Cales , Saint Andrew is for Scotland ; and Saint David is for Wales . And first the bold Duke Joshua , chief General of the Jewes , The enemies of Israel by Prowess he subdues , Five Kings one day he hanged , and to effect his will , The Sun within the Firmament , did at his prayer stand still , Saint George for England , etc David by election a Prophet and a King , He slew the great Goliah with a stone out of a sling . A Bear and a Lion , in fight he also slew , His enemies the Philistines , he bravely did subdue . Saint George , etc . Judas Machabeus , the son of Matathyas Opposed King Antiochus , and mighty Demetrius , Lysias and Tymotheus , Gorgeas and Nicanor , Were by him slain or vanquished : thus Israel god honour Saint George for England , etc Arthur King of Brittaine , with his Round-table Knights In honour of our Nation , fought many famous fights , The valiant Sir Tristram , and Sir Lancelot Du lake , Did make the foes ef Brittaine , in those days soar to quake , Saint George for England , Godfrey Duke of Boloigne and Baldwin Earl of Fanders Over the Christian armies were principal Commanders , The City of Jerusalem , they from the Pagans took , He might have raignde in P alestine , but he that style forsook Saint George for England , etc . Charlemaine the Emperor , and mighty King of France , The honour of his Saviour did wondrously advance , The Heathen Gothes and Vandals from Christendome he chaste . And for Gods true Religion he many dangers past , Saint George for England Saint Denis for France , Saint Anthonie for Italie , etc Great Alexander , the king of Macedon , In less then thirteene years space most of the world he wone . And Caesar from Dictator Romes Emperor became , He conquered France and Britany to get himself a name . Saint George , etc . Hector the son of Priam , the Prince and pride of Troy , He all his life preserved the City from annoy , But when by bold Achilles , he traitorously was slain , Brave Troy did go to ruin , and at the last was taken Saint George for England , Saint Denis for France , Saint Patricke for Ireland , whom Irishmen advance , Saint Anthonie for Italie , Saint James was born in Cales , Saint Andrew is for Scotland ; and Saint David is for Wales . The second Part. Containing other brave Warriors not ranked among the Worthies , though as worthy . To the same tune . TO He worthy Scythian Warrior , who from a Shepherd Swain , Did come to be instyled the mighty Tamberlane , He kept the Turkish Emperor still in and Iron Cage , Six Kings did draw his Chariot his like lived in no age . Saint George , etc . Likewise Richard the first sometime King of this Land , He slew a mighty Lion , even with his naked hand , With manly force and valour , he the Lyons heart did tear , And killed the Duke of Austria , with a box upon the ear . Saint George for England , etc . Also brave Edward King , ( since Williams reign ) the third The Realm of France he vanquished , and wone by dint of Sword , And likewise the fift Henry , at Agencourt did foil , The French King and his Chivalry , and brought away the spoil . Saint George , etc . The noble Earl of Warwicke , that called was Sir Guy , Against the wicked Infidels , his valour he did try : He fought with Giant Colbrand , and wounded him to death Also he killed the Dun-cow , the Devil of Dunsmoreheath : Saint George for England , etc . Bevis conquered Ascapart , and slew two might Boars , And then he passed over the seas , to combat with the Moors : For love of beauteous Josian , which was and heathen Dame , He fought in many a battle to win a lasting name . Saint George , etc . Walworth Mayor of London in second Richards days , By killing of Wat Tyler did win eternal praise , In midst of his army the Rebel bold he tam'de , For which all his Successors be Lord Mayors of London nam'de . Saint George , etc . Cumberland and Essex , Norris and brave Drake , I'th reign of Queen Elizabeth did many battles make . Adventurous Martin Frobisher , with Hawkins and some more , From sea did bring great riches unto our English shore . Saint George , etc . Bold Richard Pike of Tavistoke , a town in Devonshire , Did combat with three Spaniards , and came off fair and clear , Theres many other warriors , whose names I will not tell . Lest too prolix my Song should be , and so , kind Friends , Farewell . Saint George , etc . Printed at London for Fr Coules . 