A wonder in Kent : Of the admirable stomach of one Nicholas Wood , dwelling at Harrisom in the Coun - ty of Kent . The like of him was never herd , As in this Ditty is declared . To the tune of , The manding Soldier . A LL you that valiant fellows be , I pray give ear a while to me , I tell you of a Champion bold , That fights not for the fame of gold , but for good belly cheer , as well it does appear , the like whereof you never did hear . none may with him compare , as I will here declare , the like lives not I dare to swear . In Kent this fellow now does live , At Harrisom as report does give , His Name is called Nicholas Wood , As I for truth have understood , well known by men of fame , his worth and name , that well can justify the same , some Gentlemen and Knights , to satisfy delights , have sent for Wood to see his sleights . He is not like these puling ones , That sits and hour picking bones , A Sheep or Calf thats worth a Mark , On them heel bravely fallen to work , or if a Hog it be , all's one quoth he , in one hours space you none shall see , his stomach is so strong , nothing will do him wrong , the Devil is sure his guts among . What talk I of a Sheep or Calf , Alas these exploits are not half , A Hogs a thing that much will eat , Fish , Flesh , Fowls , Frogs , or such like meat , yet Wood is of such power , that he within and hour a good fat Hog he did devour , his like was never none as plainly may be shone , not one like him was ever known . After that he had eat this Hog , I do not mean to lie nor cog , Three pecks of Damseks he did eat , For to digest his Swinish meat , Another time beside , he being tried : seven dozen of Rabbets he destroyed , likewise he took in hand , to eat a Fleath of Brawn as soon as from the Boar it drawn , At Sir William Sidleyes house he eat , As men of credit do repeat , As much as thoroughly would suffice . Full thirty men , O gurmundize , but then unto the fire , he did retire , and for some grease he did desire . thinking his belly he would break immediately unless he had speedy remedy , A quarter of a good fat Lamb , And threescore Eggs he overcame , And eighteene yards of black pudding , And a raw Duck all but Bill and Wing , and after he had dined , as I do find , he longed for Cherries that bravely shined the threescore pound they brought , which he consumed to nought , a thing unpossible me thought , His mighty paunch does harbour all , Sheep , Hogs or Calves , this like a stall , A Park it is likewise for Dear , And Conneyes grey , or silver hair a storehouse this beside whereas he hides all kind of fruits that him betides Cheese , Buttermilk and Whey , he brings in that way , thus he brings all quite to decay . The second part . To the same tune . TO He Norfolke Dumpling he over came , The Devonshire whitepot he made lame The bag-pudding of Glocester The blackepudding of Wostershire , the Shropshire pan-pudding , and such gutting , and Somersetshire white-pudding , or any other Shire , their puddings heel not fear none may with Nicholas Wood compare : The Clothiers that in Kent do dwell , In Sussex of this man did tell , To some oF the chiefest yeomen there , Who greatly mused when they did hear , and ofred presently that they would lay , a hundred pound of good money , that he could not devour , a whole calf in and hover , they thought it was not in his power . The wager thus betwixt them laid , The Sussex men grew soar afraid , And of their match they did repent , Desiring that they might recant , the kentish men did say , that they should pay , ten pounds or stand the match and day , then so they did agree , and spent it merrily , but Wood missed of their company . A Gentleman by chance did come , Where friends of his was in the room And they were all at dinner set . But he with them eat not a bit , when the reckoning was paid , the tapster said that twelve pence more must be defrayed by him that last came in , which had not at dinner ben whereat the Gentleman in spleen . Did pay the same and said no more , But after plagued them therefore , And other time he did come there , And brought Wood with him to a fair then to the Inn he went , whereas he spent , a shilling once by ill consent and telling Wood his mind , being thus inilined , to call much meat & amp ; leave Wood behind Come hosts quickly let be brought As much good meat as may be thought To satisfy a dozen men , The hosts quickly sent it in come fit down Wood quoth he , and I'll go see , for some more of our company , but ere he came again , the tapster he came in thinking the devil there had been . The tapster did his Mistress call , And said the man had eat by all , Then into room she came with speed , And found the same was true indeed , then she began to swear and pull and tear with Wood for money for his fare and he said he was willing , to pay her down a shilling he fitted her for former dealing . Two Citizens from London went , To see this Wood was their intent , And being come to Harrisom , They sent for him into the room , for all the victuals they did call and pay , that was within the house that day , and wished goodman Wood , to fallen unto his food I marry quoth he that is good . These Citizens found him to be , So strange the like they never did see , Desiring him that he would go , To London , he resolved so , then at the last he said , he was a fraid the same to'th King should be beraid ; and so he hanged might be , therefore this thought had he , this best staying in Kent for me . His porrige boul is full two pecks , He is not of the weakest sex , Good Ale grains some times he does eat , For want of other sort of meat , I do not tell no lie , those that will further try , a book of him likewise may buy , where much more is declared , as I have read and herd none like to him may be compared . FINIS . R. C. Printed at London for H , G . A wonder in Kent : Of the admirable stomach of one Nicholas Wood , dwelling at Harrisom in the Coun - ty of Kent . The like of him was never herd , As in this Ditty is declared . To the tune of , The manding Soldier . A LL you that valiant fellows be , I pray give ear a while to me , I tell you of a Champion bold , That fights not for the fame of gold , but for good belly cheer , as well it does appear , the like whereof you never did hear . none may with him compare , as I will here declare , the like lives not I dare to swear . In Kent this fellow now does live , At Harrisom as report does give , His Name is called Nicholas Wood , As I for truth have understood , well known by men of fame , his worth and name , that well can justify the same , some Gentlemen and Knights , to satisfy delights , have sent for Wood to see his sleights . He is not like these puling ones , That sits and hour picking bones , A Sheep or Calf thats worth a Mark , On them heel bravely fallen to work , or if a Hog it be , all's one quoth he , in one hours space you none shall see , his stomach is so strong , nothing will do him wrong , the Devil is sure his guts among . What talk I of a Sheep or Calf , Alas these exploits are not half , A Hogs a thing that much will eat , Fish , Flesh , Fowls , Frogs , or such like meat , yet Wood is of such power , that he within and hour a good fat Hog he did devour , his like was never none as plainly may be shone , not one like him was ever known . After that he had eat this Hog , I do not mean to lie nor cog , Three pecks of Damseks he did eat , For to digest his Swinish meat , Another time beside , he being tried : seven dozen of Rabbets he destroyed , likewise he took in hand , to eat a Fleath of Brawn as soon as from the Boar it drawn , At Sir William Sidleyes house he eat , As men of credit do repeat , As much as thoroughly would suffice . Full thirty men , O gurmundize , but then unto the fire , he did retire , and for some grease he did desire . thinking his belly he would break immediately unless he had speedy remedy , A quarter of a good fat Lamb , And threescore Eggs he overcame , And eighteene yards of black pudding , And a raw Duck all but Bill and Wing , and after he had dined , as I do find , he longed for Cherries that bravely shined the threescore pound they brought , which he consumed to nought , a thing unpossible me thought , His mighty paunch does harbour all , Sheep , Hogs or Calves , this like a stall , A Park it is likewise for Dear , And Conneyes grey , or silver hair a storehouse this beside whereas he hides all kind of fruits that him betides Cheese , Buttermilk and Whey , he brings in that way , thus he brings all quite to decay . The second part . To the same tune . TO He Norfolke Dumpling he over came , The Devonshire whitepot he made lame The bag-pudding of Glocester The blackepudding of Wostershire , the Shropshire pan-pudding , and such gutting , and Somersetshire white-pudding , or any other Shire , their puddings heel not fear none may with Nicholas Wood compare : The Clothiers that in Kent do dwell , In Sussex of this man did tell , To some oF the chiefest yeomen there , Who greatly mused when they did hear , and ofred presently that they would lay , a hundred pound of good money , that he could not devour , a whole calf in and hover , they thought it was not in his power . The wager thus betwixt them laid , The Sussex men grew soar afraid , And of their match they did repent , Desiring that they might recant , the kentish men did say , that they should pay , ten pounds or stand the match and day , then so they did agree , and spent it merrily , but Wood missed of their company . A Gentleman by chance did come , Where friends of his was in the room And they were all at dinner set . But he with them eat not a bit , when the reckoning was paid , the tapster said that twelve pence more must be defrayed by him that last came in , which had not at dinner ben whereat the Gentleman in spleen . Did pay the same and said no more , But after plagued them therefore , And other time he did come there , And brought Wood with him to a fair then to the Inn he went , whereas he spent , a shilling once by ill consent and telling Wood his mind , being thus inilined , to call much meat & amp ; leave Wood behind Come hosts quickly let be brought As much good meat as may be thought To satisfy a dozen men , The hosts quickly sent it in come fit down Wood quoth he , and I'll go see , for some more of our company , but ere he came again , the tapster he came in thinking the devil there had been . The tapster did his Mistress call , And said the man had eat by all , Then into room she came with speed , And found the same was true indeed , then she began to swear and pull and tear with Wood for money for his fare and he said he was willing , to pay her down a shilling he fitted her for former dealing . Two Citizens from London went , To see this Wood was their intent , And being come to Harrisom , They sent for him into the room , for all the victuals they did call and pay , that was within the house that day , and wished goodman Wood , to fallen unto his food I marry quoth he that is good . These Citizens found him to be , So strange the like they never did see , Desiring him that he would go , To London , he resolved so , then at the last he said , he was a fraid the same to'th King should be beraid ; and so he hanged might be , therefore this thought had he , this best staying in Kent for me . His porrige boul is full two pecks , He is not of the weakest sex , Good Ale grains some times he does eat , For want of other sort of meat , I do not tell no lie , those that will further try , a book of him likewise may buy , where much more is declared , as I have read and herd none like to him may be compared . FINIS . R. C. Printed at London for H , G. 