The famous Battle between Robin Hood and the Curtall Fryer . To a new Notherne tune . I N Summer time when leaves grow [ green ] , and flowers are fresh and gay , Robin Hood and his merry men were disposed to play . Then some would leap , and some would run , and some would use artillery , Which of you can a good bow draw , a good archer for to be . Which of you can kill a Buck , or who can kill a Doe , Oh [ r ] who can kill a Heart of greece , five hundreth foot him from . Will Scadlocke he killed a Buck , and Midge he killed a Doe , And little John killed a Heart of greece , five hundreth foot him from ? Gods blessing on thy heart said , Robin Hood , that hath such a shot for me , I would ride my horse a hundreth miles , to find one could match thee . That caused Will Scadlocke to laugh , he laughed full heartily , There lives a curtal Fryer in Fountains Abbey , will beat both him and thee . That curtal Fryer in Fountains Abbey , well can a strong bow draw , He will beatrice you and all your Yeomen , set them all a on a row . Robin Hood he took a solemn oath , it was by Mary free , That he would neither eat nor drink , till the Fryer he did see . Robin Hood put on his harness good , on his head a cap of steel , Broad sword and buckler by his side , and they became him weel . He took his bow into his hand , it was made of a trusty tree , With sheaf of arrows at his belt , to the Fountain dale went he . And coming into Fountain dale , no farther he would ride , There was he aware of the curtale Fryer , walking by the water side . The Fryer had on harness good , on his head a cap of steel , Broadsword and buckler by his side , and they became him weel . Robin Hood lighted off his horse , and tide him to a thorn , Carry me over this water , thou curtal Friar , or else thy life's forlorn . The Fryer took Robin Hood on his back , deep water he did bestride , And spoke neither good word nor bad , till he came at th'other side . Lightly leapt Robin Hood off the Friars back , the Fryer said to him again , Carry me over this water fine fellow , or it shall breed thy pain . Robin Hood took the Fryer on his back , deep water he did bestride , And spoke neither good nor bad , till he came at th'other side . Lightly leapt the Fryer off Robin Hoods back , Robin Hood said to him again , Carry me over this water thou curtal Fryer , or it shall breed thy pain . The Fryer took Robin ons back again , and stepped i [ n ] to the knee , Till he came at the middle stream , neither good nor bad spoke he . The second part , to the same tune . A Nd coming to the middle stream , there he threw Robin in , And choose thee , choose thee fine fellow , whither thou wilt sink or swim . Robin Hood swam to a bush of broom , the Fryer to a wigger wand , Bold Robin Hood is gone to shore , and took his bow in his hand . One of his best arrows under his belt , to the Fryer he let fly , The curtal Fryer with his steel buckler , he put that arrow by . Soot on , shoot on , thou fine fellow , shoot on as thou hast begun , If thou shoot here a Summer's day , thy mark I will not shun . Robin Hood shot passing well , till his arrows all were gane , They took their swords and steel bucklers , they fought with might and main , From ten of clock of that day , till foure of afternoon . Then Robin Hood came to his knees , of the Fryer to beg a boon . A boon , a boon , thou curtal Fryer , I beg it on my knee , Give me leave to set my horn to my mouth , but to blow blasts three . That will I do , said the curtal F [ r ] year , of thy blasts I have no doubt , I hope thoule blow so passing well , till both thy eyes fallen out . Robin Hood set his horn tO [ oh ] his mouth , he blew but blasts three , Half a hundreth Yeomen with bows bent , came l [ ur ] king over the lee . Whose men are these said the Fryer , that comes so hastily , These men are mine , said Robin Hood , Fryer , what is that to thee ? A boon , a boon , said the curtal Fryer , the like I gave to thee , Give me leave to set my fist to my mouth , and to whuto whues three . That will I do , said Robin Hood , or else I were to blame . Three whues in a Friars fist , would make me glad and feign . The Fryer set his fist to his mouth , and whuted whues three , Half a hundreth of good band dogs came running the Fryer unto . Heres for every man of thine a dog , and I my self for thee , Nay by my faith , said Robin Hood , Fryer , that may not be . Two dogs at once to Robin Hood did go , the one behind , the other before , Robin Hoods mantle of Lincolne green , off from his back they tore . And whither his men shot east or west , or they shot north or south , The curtal dogs so taught they were , they kept the arrows in their mouth . Take up thy dogs , said little John , Fryer , at my bidding be , Whose man art thou , said the curtal Fryer , comes here to prate with me ? I am little John , Robin Hoods man , Fryer I will not lie , If thou take not up thy dogs soon , I'll take up them and thee . Little John had a bow in his hand , he shot with might and main , Soon half a score of the Friars dogs , lay dead upon the plain . Hold thy hand good fellow , said the curtal Fryer , thy Master and I will agree , And we will have new order taken , with all the haste may be . If thou wilt forsake fair Fountains dale , and Fountains Abbey free , Every Sunday throughout the year , a Nottle shall be thy fee , And every holiday through the year , changed shall thy garment be , If thou wilt go to fair Notingham , and there remain with me . This curtal Frier had kept Fountains dale , seven long years , and more : There was neither Knight , Lord nor Earl , could make him yield before . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . The famous Battle between Robin Hood and the Curtall Fryer . To a new Notherne tune . I N Summer time when leaves grow [ green ] , and flowers are fresh and gay , Robin Hood and his merry men were disposed to play . Then some would leap , and some would run , and some would use artillery , Which of you can a good bow draw , a good archer for to be . Which of you can kill a Buck , or who can kill a Doe , Oh [ r ] who can kill a Heart of greece , five hundreth foot him from . Will Scadlocke he killed a Buck , and Midge he killed a Doe , And little John killed a Heart of greece , five hundreth foot him from ? Gods blessing on thy heart said , Robin Hood , that hath such a shot for me , I would ride my horse a hundreth miles , to find one could match thee . That caused Will Scadlocke to laugh , he laughed full heartily , There lives a curtal Fryer in Fountains Abbey , will beat both him and thee . That curtal Fryer in Fountains Abbey , well can a strong bow draw , He will beatrice you and all your Yeomen , set them all a on a row . Robin Hood he took a solemn oath , it was by Mary free , That he would neither eat nor drink , till the Fryer he did see . Robin Hood put on his harness good , on his head a cap of steel , Broad sword and buckler by his side , and they became him weel . He took his bow into his hand , it was made of a trusty tree , With sheaf of arrows at his belt , to the Fountain dale went he . And coming into Fountain dale , no farther he would ride , There was he aware of the curtale Fryer , walking by the water side . The Fryer had on harness good , on his head a cap of steel , Broadsword and buckler by his side , and they became him weel . Robin Hood lighted off his horse , and tide him to a thorn , Carry me over this water , thou curtal Friar , or else thy life's forlorn . The Fryer took Robin Hood on his back , deep water he did bestride , And spoke neither good word nor bad , till he came at th'other side . Lightly leapt Robin Hood off the Friars back , the Fryer said to him again , Carry me over this water fine fellow , or it shall breed thy pain . Robin Hood took the Fryer on his back , deep water he did bestride , And spoke neither good nor bad , till he came at th'other side . Lightly leapt the Fryer off Robin Hoods back , Robin Hood said to him again , Carry me over this water thou curtal Fryer , or it shall breed thy pain . The Fryer took Robin ons back again , and stepped i [ n ] to the knee , Till he came at the middle stream , neither good nor bad spoke he . The second part , to the same tune . A Nd coming to the middle stream , there he threw Robin in , And choose thee , choose thee fine fellow , whither thou wilt sink or swim . Robin Hood swam to a bush of broom , the Fryer to a wigger wand , Bold Robin Hood is gone to shore , and took his bow in his hand . One of his best arrows under his belt , to the Fryer he let fly , The curtal Fryer with his steel buckler , he put that arrow by . Soot on , shoot on , thou fine fellow , shoot on as thou hast begun , If thou shoot here a Summer's day , thy mark I will not shun . Robin Hood shot passing well , till his arrows all were gane , They took their swords and steel bucklers , they fought with might and main , From ten of clock of that day , till foure of afternoon . Then Robin Hood came to his knees , of the Fryer to beg a boon . A boon , a boon , thou curtal Fryer , I beg it on my knee , Give me leave to set my horn to my mouth , but to blow blasts three . That will I do , said the curtal F [ r ] year , of thy blasts I have no doubt , I hope thoule blow so passing well , till both thy eyes fallen out . Robin Hood set his horn tO [ oh ] his mouth , he blew but blasts three , Half a hundreth Yeomen with bows bent , came l [ ur ] king over the lee . Whose men are these said the Fryer , that comes so hastily , These men are mine , said Robin Hood , Fryer , what is that to thee ? A boon , a boon , said the curtal Fryer , the like I gave to thee , Give me leave to set my fist to my mouth , and to whuto whues three . That will I do , said Robin Hood , or else I were to blame . Three whues in a Friars fist , would make me glad and feign . The Fryer set his fist to his mouth , and whuted whues three , Half a hundreth of good band dogs came running the Fryer unto . Heres for every man of thine a dog , and I my self for thee , Nay by my faith , said Robin Hood , Fryer , that may not be . Two dogs at once to Robin Hood did go , the one behind , the other before , Robin Hoods mantle of Lincolne green , off from his back they tore . And whither his men shot east or west , or they shot north or south , The curtal dogs so taught they were , they kept the arrows in their mouth . Take up thy dogs , said little John , Fryer , at my bidding be , Whose man art thou , said the curtal Fryer , comes here to prate with me ? I am little John , Robin Hoods man , Fryer I will not lie , If thou take not up thy dogs soon , I'll take up them and thee . Little John had a bow in his hand , he shot with might and main , Soon half a score of the Friars dogs , lay dead upon the plain . Hold thy hand good fellow , said the curtal Fryer , thy Master and I will agree , And we will have new order taken , with all the haste may be . If thou wilt forsake fair Fountains dale , and Fountains Abbey free , Every Sunday throughout the year , a Nottle shall be thy fee , And every holiday through the year , changed shall thy garment be , If thou wilt go to fair Notingham , and there remain with me . This curtal Frier had kept Fountains dale , seven long years , and more : There was neither Knight , Lord nor Earl , could make him yield before . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . 