Rochell her yielding to the obedience of the French King , on the 28. of October 1628. after a long siege by Land and Sea , in great penury and want . To the tune of In the days of old . Y Ou that true Christians be assist me with your sorrow , While the misery of Rochell I relate : And in love let me your attention borrow , I'll in brevity show you their estate . Being besieged long With and Army strong , by land and sea environed close : France and Spaine combined , To have them all pinde , yet bravely they did them oppose , And with constant valour , They endured such dolour , that a heart obdure may melt , To hear this relation . And have commiseration , on the wants that long they felt . While this warlike Town stood in her chief glory , Still when Fate did frown on the Protestant , Thither have they flown , while their foes were sorry , But that old renown now brave Rochell wants . For through want of meat , Famine was so great , that the living ate the dead : It grieves me to report , How that in woeful sort , many Christians perished , Through the want of victual , Whereof they had so little , that as I before did touch , Those who died by hunger , Were eat by the stronger , their necessity was such . Horses , Dogs , and Cats , were esteemed dainty , Frogs , and Mice , and Rats , were meat for the best . Some did eat old Hats , to maintain them faintly , Shoes and Gloves were cates that served among the rest : Such is hunger's power , 'Twill make one devour that which we will scarce believe : Ere a man will starve , He'll his life preserve , with that which our smell would grieve , Thus this woeful City , Whose distress I pity , suffered most extreme famine , The like I scant have read of . To the fear and dread of all that shall their case examine . About twelve thousand souls perished by hunger , While many needless bowls in England were ill spent . Neither fish nor fowls had they to keep them longer , Many cries and houles to the air were sent . Nor any kind of meat Could they have to eat , when their store was fully spent . The Spaniard and the French Put them to such a pinch , having round begirt their Town , That they needs must yield What they could not wield , hunger brings stout stomachs down So it hath constrained Them with heart unfeigned to surrender up their Town . The second part . To the same tune . TO He eight and twentieth day of the last October , Seeing there was no way but to yield the Town , They without delay advised by Counsel sober , Yielded to obey the King who wears that crown And there withal they straight Opened the gate , and put the Town , their lives and goods Into his Highness hands , To do as he commands , who did not seek to spil their bloods Beyond our expectation He had commiseraiton , on those miserable souls , And mildly he dispenses With their bold offences , and their cases much condoles . When they had open set the Gates upon adventure And that the French did get possession of the same , They freely without let into the streets did enter , The Townsmen yielded it , and did all right disclaim , Protesting that they would Be ever as they should obsequious to his Majesty , And like subject's true , Live in obedience due , and he with their humility So graciously was pleased , That he then released them of what they had offended , He gives them leave to use The faith which they do choose , thus all contention shall be ended . It was a piteous thing that befell them after , For when some did bring victuals as was needing , Sent thither by the King , it caused a woeful slaughter : Many surfeiting , died with too much feeding , So weak their stomachs were That they could not bear meat as other people can : Thus as some died through need , So want of taking heed brought death to many a hungry man God grant that we here dwelling May have a fellow feeling of those Christians misery , Who have endured such sorrow , And let us from them borrow , a pattern of true constancy . God bless our Royal King , who is true faiths defender , That he to pass may bring every good design : Bless also in each thing his Queen , and in time send her Power in grace to spring like a fruitful Vine : The Nobles of this Land Proffet with thy right hand , that they may fructify in good : And let those Christians true The right way still pursue , o let them stand as they have stood , Let not thy flock disturbed , Be by Tyrants curbed , but like the Ark let it still swim , Among those raging billows , Though with cares they fill us , let's not be dismayed for them . Printed at London for J. Wright . Finis . M . P.Rochell her yielding to the obedience of the French King , on the 28. of October 1628. after a long siege by Land and Sea , in great penury and want . To the tune of In the days of old . Y Ou that true Christians be assist me with your sorrow , While the misery of Rochell I relate : And in love let me your attention borrow , I'll in brevity show you their estate . Being besieged long With and Army strong , by land and sea environed close : France and Spaine combined , To have them all pinde , yet bravely they did them oppose , And with constant valour , They endured such dolour , that a heart obdure may melt , To hear this relation . And have commiseration , on the wants that long they felt . While this warlike Town stood in her chief glory , Still when Fate did frown on the Protestant , Thither have they flown , while their foes were sorry , But that old renown now brave Rochell wants . For through want of meat , Famine was so great , that the living ate the dead : It grieves me to report , How that in woeful sort , many Christians perished , Through the want of victual , Whereof they had so little , that as I before did touch , Those who died by hunger , Were eat by the stronger , their necessity was such . Horses , Dogs , and Cats , were esteemed dainty , Frogs , and Mice , and Rats , were meat for the best . Some did eat old Hats , to maintain them faintly , Shoes and Gloves were cates that served among the rest : Such is hunger's power , 'Twill make one devour that which we will scarce believe : Ere a man will starve , He'll his life preserve , with that which our smell would grieve , Thus this woeful City , Whose distress I pity , suffered most extreme famine , The like I scant have read of . To the fear and dread of all that shall their case examine . About twelve thousand souls perished by hunger , While many needless bowls in England were ill spent . Neither fish nor fowls had they to keep them longer , Many cries and houles to the air were sent . Nor any kind of meat Could they have to eat , when their store was fully spent . The Spaniard and the French Put them to such a pinch , having round begirt their Town , That they needs must yield What they could not wield , hunger brings stout stomachs down So it hath constrained Them with heart unfeigned to surrender up their Town . The second part . To the same tune . TO He eight and twentieth day of the last October , Seeing there was no way but to yield the Town , They without delay advised by Counsel sober , Yielded to obey the King who wears that crown And there withal they straight Opened the gate , and put the Town , their lives and goods Into his Highness hands , To do as he commands , who did not seek to spil their bloods Beyond our expectation He had commiseraiton , on those miserable souls , And mildly he dispenses With their bold offences , and their cases much condoles . When they had open set the Gates upon adventure And that the French did get possession of the same , They freely without let into the streets did enter , The Townsmen yielded it , and did all right disclaim , Protesting that they would Be ever as they should obsequious to his Majesty , And like subject's true , Live in obedience due , and he with their humility So graciously was pleased , That he then released them of what they had offended , He gives them leave to use The faith which they do choose , thus all contention shall be ended . It was a piteous thing that befell them after , For when some did bring victuals as was needing , Sent thither by the King , it caused a woeful slaughter : Many surfeiting , died with too much feeding , So weak their stomachs were That they could not bear meat as other people can : Thus as some died through need , So want of taking heed brought death to many a hungry man God grant that we here dwelling May have a fellow feeling of those Christians misery , Who have endured such sorrow , And let us from them borrow , a pattern of true constancy . God bless our Royal King , who is true faiths defender , That he to pass may bring every good design : Bless also in each thing his Queen , and in time send her Power in grace to spring like a fruitful Vine : The Nobles of this Land Proffet with thy right hand , that they may fructify in good : And let those Christians true The right way still pursue , o let them stand as they have stood , Let not thy flock disturbed , Be by Tyrants curbed , but like the Ark let it still swim , Among those raging billows , Though with cares they fill us , let's not be dismayed for them . Printed at London for J. Wright . Finis . M.P. 