TO : News from Hollands Leager : OR , Hollands Leager is lately up broken , This for a certain is spoken . To the tune of , Canons are roaring . Y Ou that desire news , list to my story ; Some it will make to muse , some will be sorry , Some will rejoice thereat , others will wonder , To see the bark and tree parted asunder . This of a certain for truth it is spoken , That Hollands Leager , up lately is broken . Such Ensigns were displayed to amaze Holland The like hath seldom been , I think in no land . From many parts there hath gallants resorted ; Because the fame thereof they herd reported : Yet some their labour lost , for it is spoken , That Hollands , etc The flaunting Spaniard , and boon Cavillera The bragging Dutchman thought cost him deer a : Wallouns and Switzer , both Jewes , Turke and Neager Scots , Danes and French , have been at Hollands Leager . Yet all would not avail , for it is spoken , That Hollands , etc Though many sought to invade the strong Island , And stratagems devised by sea and by land , Rumours were spread abroad , fame's Trumpet sounding , Their Sconce so firmly stood , they feared no wounding : But yet for all their pomp , thus it is spoken , That Hollands , etc The great god Jupiter did well affect her : And Mars the god of war , did so protect her , His martial discipline made her so valiant , She durst in battle join with any Gallant : Yet though she valour had , thus it is spoken , That Hollands , etc Belloniaes blustering shot , they never feared , But bravely face to face , the Champions dared : She seldom took the foil by friend or stranger , Unless a back recoil put her in danger , But yet for all their pomp , thus it is spoken , That Hollands , etc Blow for blow , shot for shot still they returned , But sliding Cowards she ever disdained : If any younker the Island do venture , Without admittance no party could enter . But though they were so stout thus it is spoken , That Hollands Leager is lately up broken . The drawbridge being up taken they durst to , Stand to push of pike and give a thrust too : Those that gave onset sometime god the worst ont , And at their parting most dearly have cursed ont But however it is spoken that Hollands Leager Up lately is broken . The second part . To the same Tune . B Ulworkes and batteries and other fences Duly manteined the Island expenses : Store of musician , and all things at pleasure , Fit for this company gold and rich treasure They had at her command yet it is , etc Now since the Leager broke and they are excluded The chief Commander by fate is subdued , Those that did them assault thought it small purchase , The Lion scorns to prey on a dead carcase . This we hear certainly by many spoken , That Hollands , etc All those that used to frequent this border Are back retired for there's a new order : That none shall thither come to work a violence , Great and small , high and low , all must keep silence , For it is by many spoken , that Hollands , etc Yet younster arm your selves , here comes new tidings Although the Camp be broke , for their abidings , They have a refuge found , that can defend them . Drums , pikes and musketeers does there attend them Then bravely march along , gallants in clusters , Arrive at Bewdly , where they keep their musters . There frontgarded is with such strong forces Only they left behind some certain Horses , Yet for a trifle they will not be daunted , When once their Colours o'th' wall is advanced . Fear to march away , gallants in clusters , To Bewdly heigh , where they keep their musters . Now if my news in this song may content you , Buy it and try it and never repent you , For your recreation in love I have pend it : Trusting no creature I have here offended , With telling of the news which I herd spoken , That Hollands Leager is lately up broken . London , printed for J.W. FINIS . L . P.T : News from Hollands Leager : OR , Hollands Leager is lately up broken , This for a certain is spoken . To the tune of , Canons are roaring . Y Ou that desire news , list to my story ; Some it will make to muse , some will be sorry , Some will rejoice thereat , others will wonder , To see the bark and tree parted asunder . This of a certain for truth it is spoken , That Hollands Leager , up lately is broken . Such Ensigns were displayed to amaze Holland The like hath seldom been , I think in no land . From many parts there hath gallants resorted ; Because the fame thereof they herd reported : Yet some their labour lost , for it is spoken , That Hollands , etc The flaunting Spaniard , and boon Cavillera The bragging Dutchman thought cost him deer a : Wallouns and Switzer , both Jewes , Turke and Neager Scots , Danes and French , have been at Hollands Leager . Yet all would not avail , for it is spoken , That Hollands , etc Though many sought to invade the strong Island , And stratagems devised by sea and by land , Rumours were spread abroad , fame's Trumpet sounding , Their Sconce so firmly stood , they feared no wounding : But yet for all their pomp , thus it is spoken , That Hollands , etc The great god Jupiter did well affect her : And Mars the god of war , did so protect her , His martial discipline made her so valiant , She durst in battle join with any Gallant : Yet though she valour had , thus it is spoken , That Hollands , etc Belloniaes blustering shot , they never feared , But bravely face to face , the Champions dared : She seldom took the foil by friend or stranger , Unless a back recoil put her in danger , But yet for all their pomp , thus it is spoken , That Hollands , etc Blow for blow , shot for shot still they returned , But sliding Cowards she ever disdained : If any younker the Island do venture , Without admittance no party could enter . But though they were so stout thus it is spoken , That Hollands Leager is lately up broken . The drawbridge being up taken they durst to , Stand to push of pike and give a thrust too : Those that gave onset sometime god the worst ont , And at their parting most dearly have cursed ont But however it is spoken that Hollands Leager Up lately is broken . The second part . To the same Tune . B Ulworkes and batteries and other fences Duly manteined the Island expenses : Store of musician , and all things at pleasure , Fit for this company gold and rich treasure They had at her command yet it is , etc Now since the Leager broke and they are excluded The chief Commander by fate is subdued , Those that did them assault thought it small purchase , The Lion scorns to prey on a dead carcase . This we hear certainly by many spoken , That Hollands , etc All those that used to frequent this border Are back retired for there's a new order : That none shall thither come to work a violence , Great and small , high and low , all must keep silence , For it is by many spoken , that Hollands , etc Yet younster arm your selves , here comes new tidings Although the Camp be broke , for their abidings , They have a refuge found , that can defend them . Drums , pikes and musketeers does there attend them Then bravely march along , gallants in clusters , Arrive at Bewdly , where they keep their musters . There frontgarded is with such strong forces Only they left behind some certain Horses , Yet for a trifle they will not be daunted , When once their Colours o'th' wall is advanced . Fear to march away , gallants in clusters , To Bewdly heigh , where they keep their musters . Now if my news in this song may content you , Buy it and try it and never repent you , For your recreation in love I have pend it : Trusting no creature I have here offended , With telling of the news which I herd spoken , That Hollands Leager is lately up broken . London , printed for J.W. FINIS . L.P. 