A Caveat for Young Men . OR , The Bad Husband turned Thrifty . This Caveat may serve both for Old and young , For to remember that Old Age will come ; If you these Verses do mind and read , I hope hereafter you will take better heed : This Song it was set forth and penned , To teach Bad Husbands to amend . Therefore bad Husbands mend your lives , And be more kinder to your Wives . To the Tune of , Heigh ho my Honey . A LL you young Ranting Blades , that spend your time in vain , Remember that old age , you cannot it refrain : And while that you are young , this Caveat take of me , Be ruled by no tempting tongue , to bring you to poverty . I have been a bad Husband long and have spent store of silver and gold , Yet now I'll save something while I am young , to keep me when I am old . I had good store of means , and I lived most gallantly : But yet upon Whores and Queans , I spent it by and by : My Hoastis she was full of laughter , so long as I had money good store ; And my Children must drink fair water , while I in the Alehouse did roar . I have been , etc My Wife would me entreat , the Ale . house to refrain ; Then I with anger great , made answer straight again : If you begin to scold , then I will bang thy coat ; What woman her tongue can hold , when a man swallows all down his throat I have been , etc My Children and I must fit , until we starve and pine , While you your guts full get , of Tobacco , Beer , and Wine . Half that you spend in vain , and merely throw away , Our Family would maintain , and our House-Rent it would pay . I have been a bad Husband long , and have spent store of silver and gold ; Yet now I'll save something while I am young , to keep me when I am old . But yet I'de not be ruled , by [ th ] ease w [ ord ] s she did say , My self I often fooled , [ which ] brought me to [ de ] cay : I no sooner had [ sold ] a Cow , but straight to the Alehouse I ran ; My Hostis unto me would bow , until all my money was gone . I have been , etc She'd chuck me under the chin , and perhaps would give me a kiss , [ As ] Venus drew Adonis in , my H oastis would never miss : She'd tell me it was too early , or else it was too late , until by the Oil of Barley , they had got my whole estate . I have been , etc Thus day and night I ranted , and no company did refuse , while my wife and children wanted , I did my self abuse : I could not scarce afford my children clothes to wear ; Nor my wife one good word , such was her grievous care . I have been , etc The more my wife did speak , the worse I would be , I'de drink till my brains did ache , only to anger she : So long as I have a penny ; i'de never give out for gain ; But since I have found by many , a Good Fellow's a costly name . I have been , etc At last I did perceive , my Estate was almost gone , Then it was time to leave , and some words I thought upon : I went into and Alehouse , where all my Coin I had drowned ; I n company with good fellows , I had spent and hundred pound , I have been , etc . I then these words replied , H oastis , money I have none , A Flagon she me denied , and bid me straight be gone : what , will you not trust me a Flagon , those words replied I , No , quoth she not a Nogging , if you should starve and die . I have been , etc . I then went sighing home , and a vow straightway did make , They should fit [ while ] day of Doom , before one penny of me should take : A new life I will now begin , the Alewives shall fit like Elves ; They shall both Carded and Spin , or else go hang themselves . I have been , etc Now I all men advice , this Caveat think upon , Be ruled by your wives , for old age it will come . I f they know you have money , the Alewives with you will crack , They'll suck you as Bees suck honey , then hang you behind your back , I have been , etc Therefore in time be ruled , save something while you have it , By no Alewives be you fooled , and then repent too late : For when that all is gone , and you have but little stock , I f to the Alewives you make moan , they will you but jear and mock . I have been a bad Husband long , and have spent store of silver and gold Yet now I'll save something while I am young to keep me when I am old . FINIS . By John Wade London , Printed , for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger and W. WhitwoodA Caveat for Young Men . OR , The Bad Husband turned Thrifty . This Caveat may serve both for Old and young , For to remember that Old Age will come ; If you these Verses do mind and read , I hope hereafter you will take better heed : This Song it was set forth and penned , To teach Bad Husbands to amend . Therefore bad Husbands mend your lives , And be more kinder to your Wives . To the Tune of , Heigh ho my Honey . A LL you young Ranting Blades , that spend your time in vain , Remember that old age , you cannot it refrain : And while that you are young , this Caveat take of me , Be ruled by no tempting tongue , to bring you to poverty . I have been a bad Husband long and have spent store of silver and gold , Yet now I'll save something while I am young , to keep me when I am old . I had good store of means , and I lived most gallantly : But yet upon Whores and Queans , I spent it by and by : My Hoastis she was full of laughter , so long as I had money good store ; And my Children must drink fair water , while I in the Alehouse did roar . I have been , etc My Wife would me entreat , the Ale . house to refrain ; Then I with anger great , made answer straight again : If you begin to scold , then I will bang thy coat ; What woman her tongue can hold , when a man swallows all down his throat I have been , etc My Children and I must fit , until we starve and pine , While you your guts full get , of Tobacco , Beer , and Wine . Half that you spend in vain , and merely throw away , Our Family would maintain , and our House-Rent it would pay . I have been a bad Husband long , and have spent store of silver and gold ; Yet now I'll save something while I am young , to keep me when I am old . But yet I'de not be ruled , by [ th ] ease w [ ord ] s she did say , My self I often fooled , [ which ] brought me to [ de ] cay : I no sooner had [ sold ] a Cow , but straight to the Alehouse I ran ; My Hostis unto me would bow , until all my money was gone . I have been , etc She'd chuck me under the chin , and perhaps would give me a kiss , [ As ] Venus drew Adonis in , my H oastis would never miss : She'd tell me it was too early , or else it was too late , until by the Oil of Barley , they had got my whole estate . I have been , etc Thus day and night I ranted , and no company did refuse , while my wife and children wanted , I did my self abuse : I could not scarce afford my children clothes to wear ; Nor my wife one good word , such was her grievous care . I have been , etc The more my wife did speak , the worse I would be , I'de drink till my brains did ache , only to anger she : So long as I have a penny ; i'de never give out for gain ; But since I have found by many , a Good Fellow's a costly name . I have been , etc At last I did perceive , my Estate was almost gone , Then it was time to leave , and some words I thought upon : I went into and Alehouse , where all my Coin I had drowned ; I n company with good fellows , I had spent and hundred pound , I have been , etc . I then these words replied , H oastis , money I have none , A Flagon she me denied , and bid me straight be gone : what , will you not trust me a Flagon , those words replied I , No , quoth she not a Nogging , if you should starve and die . I have been , etc . I then went sighing home , and a vow straightway did make , They should fit [ while ] day of Doom , before one penny of me should take : A new life I will now begin , the Alewives shall fit like Elves ; They shall both Carded and Spin , or else go hang themselves . I have been , etc Now I all men advice , this Caveat think upon , Be ruled by your wives , for old age it will come . I f they know you have money , the Alewives with you will crack , They'll suck you as Bees suck honey , then hang you behind your back , I have been , etc Therefore in time be ruled , save something while you have it , By no Alewives be you fooled , and then repent too late : For when that all is gone , and you have but little stock , I f to the Alewives you make moan , they will you but jear and mock . I have been a bad Husband long , and have spent store of silver and gold Yet now I'll save something while I am young to keep me when I am old . FINIS . By John Wade London , Printed , for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger and W. Whitwood 