The WORLDLINGS FAREWELL : Or , The State of a DYING-MAN , who had always preferred Temporal before Eternal Things , the Flesh before the Spirit . To the Tune of Guy of Warwick : Or Troy Town . O Wretched man that lovest earthly things , And to the World hast made thy self a thrall , Whose short delight eternal sorrow brings , whose Sweets in show , in truth are bitter Gall : & amp ; Whose Pleasures fade ever scarce they be possessed And grieve them least who do them most detest . Thou art not sure one moment for to live , and at thy death thou leavest all behind , Thy Lands , thy Goods no succour then can give , Thy Pleasures past are Torments to thy mind ; Thy Worldly-friends can yield thee no relief , Thy greatest Joyce will prove thy deepest Grief . The time will come when Death will thee assault : conceive it then as present for to be , That thou in time mayest well amend thy fault , and in thy Life thy Error plainly see : Imagine now thy Glass is almost spent , And mark thy Friends how deeply they lament . Thy Wife does howl and pierce the very skies , thy Children's tears their sorrows do bewray , Thy Kinsfolk wail and weep with woeful cries : yet must thou die , and canst no longer stay among the Joys and Treasures of thy Heart , Thy Raze is run , from them thou must depart . With pain thou liest gasping all for breath past hope's of Life or thoughts of any good : Thy Face presents a lively from of Death , thy Heart becomes all cold for want of Blood : Thy Nostrils shrink , and panting thou dost lie , Thy loathsome sighed thy Friends begin to fly . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Thy Voice does yield a hoarse and hollow found , thy dying Head does ( giddy ) seem to sleep , Thy senses All with sorrow do abound : thy Feet are dead , & amp ; Death does forward creep : Thy Eyes does sink into thy heavy Head , Thy Jaws do fallen , and show thee almost dead . What dost thou think when all thy Senses fail ? what dost thou say when pleasures there be none , How dost thou now thy passed-life bewail ? how dost thou wish thou hadst no cause to groan ? What wouldst thou do thy ending-life to save ? What wouldst thou give for that thou canst not have ? Thy Body now must from thy Soul depart , thy Lands and Goods another must possess : Thy Joys are passed on which thou settest thy Heart , thy pains to come no Creature can express . Loe here the fruit and gain of all thy Sin , Thy Pleasure's past , and Pain does now begin . TO High Secret faults are set before thine eyes , and Monstrous shapes now seem on thee to gaze To swallow thee Despair in secret lies , and all thy Sins with terror thee amaze ; Thy sinful Mates have left thee now alone , And in thy Soul with sorrow thou dost groan . Thou wailest now the pleasing of thy Will , thy ill-got Goods do make thee to lament , Thy vain Delights with anguish thee do fill , thy wanton deeds thy Conscience do torment : Thy sweetest Sins do bring thee bitter smart , Thy heinous Faults oppress thy dying heart . W ith dreadful doom they threat thy doleful mind , and bent to fight , with fury thee enclose , No worldly help , no rescue canst thou find , thou standest now amid thy mortal Foes : Several Death's would seem a lesser pain Than this Estate wherein thou dost remain . There is no Pen , no Creature can bewray how all the Sins their festered rancour show How direful Sights , and Sorrow do dismay how blustering storms of grief begin to blow : Thy Pleasure's passed which was thy God before , And Pain begins to last for evermore . To save thy Life no toil thou wouldst refuse , Nor spare thy Goods to ease thy woeful State ; Of all thy Sins thy self thou dost accuse , and callest for Grace when calling comes too late ! For sin thou didst , while life and power did last , And leavest off because thy force is past . What boots it thy Lewdness to repent , and leave off Sin when Sinn forsaketh thee ! What canst thou do when all thy force is spent ! and will our Lord with this appeased be ? Thy Life thou ledst in serving of thy Foe , Who canst thou serve when Life thou must forgo ? Then had-I-wist , with sorrow thou dost say : ( but After-wits repentance ever breed ) The hour is come , thy Debt thou now must pay , & amp ; yield to Death when Life thou most shalt need : Thy breath is stopped in twinkling of and eye , Thy Body dead in ugly from does lie . Thy Carcase now like Carrion men do shun , thy Friends do hast thy Burial to procure , Thy Servants seek away from thee to run , thy loathsome stink no Creature can endure , And they which took in thee their chief Delight , Do shun thee first , and most abhor thy sighed . Thy Flesh must serve for Maggots as a prey , for pampering which both land & amp ; sea were sough [ tO ] Thy Body must transformed be to Clay , for whose delight so costly Clothes were bought Thy Pride in Dust , thy Glory in the Grave , Thy Flesh in Earth , their ending now must have [ e . ] Behold the Place in which thou must abide , is loathsome , dark , unsweet , and very straigh [ tO ] With broken Bones bespread on every side , and crawling Worms to feed on thee do wait ; Oh hard Exchange ! O dark and doleful Place ! Where earth and filth thy Body must embrace . O wretched state ! O most unhappy man ! yet were it well if nothing were behind , If all might end as here it first began , the thing were done when crawling Guests had dined For then as God of Nothing did thee frame , So next to Nothing shouldst thou be again . But live thou must a Thousand death's to die : and dying still yet wholly never dead ; Thou must appear before the Judge on high , and have Reward as thou thy Life hast led : Thy Time is come thou canst no longer stay , The Judge is set , and bootless is delay . Thou Christian man that yet hast Time and Gram [ ce ] to mend thy sinful Life , and to repent If thou wertenberg now before the Judges face , what wouldst thou give for all thy Time mispen [ tO ] This Day of Life might light thee to thy home ; If Night should now surprise Thee , all were gone . London . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The WORLDLINGS FAREWELL : Or , The State of a DYING-MAN , who had always preferred Temporal before Eternal Things , the Flesh before the Spirit . To the Tune of Guy of Warwick : Or Troy Town . O Wretched man that lovest earthly things , And to the World hast made thy self a thrall , Whose short delight eternal sorrow brings , whose Sweets in show , in truth are bitter Gall : & amp ; Whose Pleasures fade ever scarce they be possessed And grieve them least who do them most detest . Thou art not sure one moment for to live , and at thy death thou leavest all behind , Thy Lands , thy Goods no succour then can give , Thy Pleasures past are Torments to thy mind ; Thy Worldly-friends can yield thee no relief , Thy greatest Joyce will prove thy deepest Grief . The time will come when Death will thee assault : conceive it then as present for to be , That thou in time mayest well amend thy fault , and in thy Life thy Error plainly see : Imagine now thy Glass is almost spent , And mark thy Friends how deeply they lament . Thy Wife does howl and pierce the very skies , thy Children's tears their sorrows do bewray , Thy Kinsfolk wail and weep with woeful cries : yet must thou die , and canst no longer stay among the Joys and Treasures of thy Heart , Thy Raze is run , from them thou must depart . With pain thou liest gasping all for breath past hope's of Life or thoughts of any good : Thy Face presents a lively from of Death , thy Heart becomes all cold for want of Blood : Thy Nostrils shrink , and panting thou dost lie , Thy loathsome sighed thy Friends begin to fly . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Thy Voice does yield a hoarse and hollow found , thy dying Head does ( giddy ) seem to sleep , Thy senses All with sorrow do abound : thy Feet are dead , & amp ; Death does forward creep : Thy Eyes does sink into thy heavy Head , Thy Jaws do fallen , and show thee almost dead . What dost thou think when all thy Senses fail ? what dost thou say when pleasures there be none , How dost thou now thy passed-life bewail ? how dost thou wish thou hadst no cause to groan ? What wouldst thou do thy ending-life to save ? What wouldst thou give for that thou canst not have ? Thy Body now must from thy Soul depart , thy Lands and Goods another must possess : Thy Joys are passed on which thou settest thy Heart , thy pains to come no Creature can express . Loe here the fruit and gain of all thy Sin , Thy Pleasure's past , and Pain does now begin . TO High Secret faults are set before thine eyes , and Monstrous shapes now seem on thee to gaze To swallow thee Despair in secret lies , and all thy Sins with terror thee amaze ; Thy sinful Mates have left thee now alone , And in thy Soul with sorrow thou dost groan . Thou wailest now the pleasing of thy Will , thy ill-got Goods do make thee to lament , Thy vain Delights with anguish thee do fill , thy wanton deeds thy Conscience do torment : Thy sweetest Sins do bring thee bitter smart , Thy heinous Faults oppress thy dying heart . W ith dreadful doom they threat thy doleful mind , and bent to fight , with fury thee enclose , No worldly help , no rescue canst thou find , thou standest now amid thy mortal Foes : Several Death's would seem a lesser pain Than this Estate wherein thou dost remain . There is no Pen , no Creature can bewray how all the Sins their festered rancour show How direful Sights , and Sorrow do dismay how blustering storms of grief begin to blow : Thy Pleasure's passed which was thy God before , And Pain begins to last for evermore . To save thy Life no toil thou wouldst refuse , Nor spare thy Goods to ease thy woeful State ; Of all thy Sins thy self thou dost accuse , and callest for Grace when calling comes too late ! For sin thou didst , while life and power did last , And leavest off because thy force is past . What boots it thy Lewdness to repent , and leave off Sin when Sinn forsaketh thee ! What canst thou do when all thy force is spent ! and will our Lord with this appeased be ? Thy Life thou ledst in serving of thy Foe , Who canst thou serve when Life thou must forgo ? Then had-I-wist , with sorrow thou dost say : ( but After-wits repentance ever breed ) The hour is come , thy Debt thou now must pay , & amp ; yield to Death when Life thou most shalt need : Thy breath is stopped in twinkling of and eye , Thy Body dead in ugly from does lie . Thy Carcase now like Carrion men do shun , thy Friends do hast thy Burial to procure , Thy Servants seek away from thee to run , thy loathsome stink no Creature can endure , And they which took in thee their chief Delight , Do shun thee first , and most abhor thy sighed . Thy Flesh must serve for Maggots as a prey , for pampering which both land & amp ; sea were sough [ tO ] Thy Body must transformed be to Clay , for whose delight so costly Clothes were bought Thy Pride in Dust , thy Glory in the Grave , Thy Flesh in Earth , their ending now must have [ e . ] Behold the Place in which thou must abide , is loathsome , dark , unsweet , and very straigh [ tO ] With broken Bones bespread on every side , and crawling Worms to feed on thee do wait ; Oh hard Exchange ! O dark and doleful Place ! Where earth and filth thy Body must embrace . O wretched state ! O most unhappy man ! yet were it well if nothing were behind , If all might end as here it first began , the thing were done when crawling Guests had dined For then as God of Nothing did thee frame , So next to Nothing shouldst thou be again . But live thou must a Thousand death's to die : and dying still yet wholly never dead ; Thou must appear before the Judge on high , and have Reward as thou thy Life hast led : Thy Time is come thou canst no longer stay , The Judge is set , and bootless is delay . Thou Christian man that yet hast Time and Gram [ ce ] to mend thy sinful Life , and to repent If thou wertenberg now before the Judges face , what wouldst thou give for all thy Time mispen [ tO ] This Day of Life might light thee to thy home ; If Night should now surprise Thee , all were gone . London . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 