And Hundred Godly Lessons , That a Mother on her Death-Bed gave to her Children ; whereby they may know how to guide themselves towards God and Man , to the benefit of the Common-Wealth , joy of their Parents , and good to themselves . To the Tune of , Dying Christians Exhortation . M Y children dear mark well my words , and keep my Precepts well , Consider daily in your minds the words which I shall tell : The gain is great which shall ensue , good counsel does direct , Their ways and actions for the best , that do not it neglect . First Worship God above all things , vain swearing see you shun : Hear much , but see you little say , thereby much good is wone ; Speak thou no ill of any man , tend well thine own affairs , Bridle thy wrath and anger so , that thereof comes no cares . Be mild and gentle in thy speech , both unto Man and Child , Refuse not good and lawful gains , with words be not beguiled : Forget not any good turn done , and help thy Neighbours need , Commit no ill in any case , the hungry see thou feed . Cast no man in the teeth with that which thou for him hast done ; Remember flesh is found and frail , and hatred see thou shun . Leave wicked things , then no mishap shall thee to trouble bring , Crave no preferment of the Lord , nor honour of the King . Boast not thy self before God's sighed , who knows thy heart always : Offend not thou the multitude , faint not when thou dost pray : Scorn not a man in misery , esteem not tattling tales , Consider reason is exiled , when as a Drunkard rails : Use not thy Lips to loathsome lies , by craft increase no wealth , And strive not with a mighty Man , with temperance nourish health . Look that thou order well thy words , leave not thy Friend for Gold , Trust not too much before thou try , in venturing be not bold . In God Repose thy strength and stay , with tongue extol his praise , Honour thy Parents , and the Lord he will prolong thy days . He that his Father honour does , God will forgive his since , He that his Mother loves , is like one that does favour win . A Child obedient to the Lord , his Mother comfort shall , The Father's Blessing stays the house , his curse does make it fallen . A wise Child makes the Father glad , Fools do their Mother grieve , And shame shall come to such as do their Parents not Relieve . He that his Mother does defy , shall come to nought and worse , The Ravens shall pick out their eyes , that do their Parents curse : From needy men turn not thy face , let not thy right hand know , What thou dost with thy left hand give , or on the poor bestow . They that upon the poor bestow , unto the Lord do lend , And God unto such men again , a thousandfold will send : As water does the fire quench , whose fury great does grow , Even so shall mercy quench their sins , the which do mercy show . Hear thou God's word with earnest care , with wisdom answer make , Be thou not moved with every wind , such course do sinners take ; Thy talk will show thy fame or shame , fools oft themselves annoy , Trust not thy own will overmuch , for that may thee destroy . They that the living God do fear , a faithful friend shall find : A true friend is a jewel rare , and comfort to the mind . Hear Sermons that good sentences thou mayest conceive aright , In Gods commandments exercise , thy self both day and night . Think on the pain thy mother had , in bringing thee to life ; Fear God who knows thy secret thoughts and look thou make no strife . Visit the sick with carefulness , the Prisoners grief consider , Show pity to the fatherless , and God will thee deliver . Help still to right the widows wrong , remember still thine end , So thou shalt never do amiss , nor wilfully offend : Trust not a reconciled friend , more then and open foe , Who touches pitch , shall be defiled , take heed thou do not so . Take not a Wife that wanton is , and full of shameful words , The flattering of and Harlot is at length more sharp than Swords . Cast not thy love on such a one , whose looks can thee allure , In every face where beauty is , the heart's not always pure . A Woman fair and undiscreet is like a Ring of Gold The which in a Swines Snout is set , unseemly to behold : The malice of lewd women shun , for they will thee destroy , Hate her that does on every Man set her Delight and joy . From others let thy praise proceed , boast not thy self in ought , Nor do not hear a flattering tongue , thereby much ill is wrought : The Child that does his Parents rob , and counteth it no since , A vile destroyer he is deemed , and shall no favour win . Correction brings wisdom found , fools hate good counsel still , That child does shame his mother much , that's let to have his will : The good men path shines as the light that beautifies the day , The wicked know not where they walk for darkness is their way . Put far from thee a froward Mouth , a slanderous tongue is ill , And do not thou and envious mind , in any wise fulfil . A Harlot brings a man to beg , in her is found no truth , In gladness therefore live and die , with the wife of thy youth . Much babbling breeds great offence , he that speaks least is wise , Gods blessing only makes men rich , from thence all joys arise . Better is little fearing God , then bags of gold god ill , And better is one bit of bred , then a fat Ox with ill will . Who brooks no warning hates his lot , true age worship aright , A patient man far better is than one endued with might . men credit comes by doing good , and humble mind indeed Is better then a Liar proud , from whence vain brags proceed . By this dear children you may learn how to direct your ways , To God , to Prince , to Common-wea [ lth ] whereon your welfare stays . Print well in your remembrance , the Lessons I have shown , Then shall you live in happy state , when I am dead and gone . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . And Hundred Godly Lessons , That a Mother on her Death-Bed gave to her Children ; whereby they may know how to guide themselves towards God and Man , to the benefit of the Common-Wealth , joy of their Parents , and good to themselves . To the Tune of , Dying Christians Exhortation . M Y children dear mark well my words , and keep my Precepts well , Consider daily in your minds the words which I shall tell : The gain is great which shall ensue , good counsel does direct , Their ways and actions for the best , that do not it neglect . First Worship God above all things , vain swearing see you shun : Hear much , but see you little say , thereby much good is wone ; Speak thou no ill of any man , tend well thine own affairs , Bridle thy wrath and anger so , that thereof comes no cares . Be mild and gentle in thy speech , both unto Man and Child , Refuse not good and lawful gains , with words be not beguiled : Forget not any good turn done , and help thy Neighbours need , Commit no ill in any case , the hungry see thou feed . Cast no man in the teeth with that which thou for him hast done ; Remember flesh is found and frail , and hatred see thou shun . Leave wicked things , then no mishap shall thee to trouble bring , Crave no preferment of the Lord , nor honour of the King . Boast not thy self before God's sighed , who knows thy heart always : Offend not thou the multitude , faint not when thou dost pray : Scorn not a man in misery , esteem not tattling tales , Consider reason is exiled , when as a Drunkard rails : Use not thy Lips to loathsome lies , by craft increase no wealth , And strive not with a mighty Man , with temperance nourish health . Look that thou order well thy words , leave not thy Friend for Gold , Trust not too much before thou try , in venturing be not bold . In God Repose thy strength and stay , with tongue extol his praise , Honour thy Parents , and the Lord he will prolong thy days . He that his Father honour does , God will forgive his since , He that his Mother loves , is like one that does favour win . A Child obedient to the Lord , his Mother comfort shall , The Father's Blessing stays the house , his curse does make it fallen . A wise Child makes the Father glad , Fools do their Mother grieve , And shame shall come to such as do their Parents not Relieve . He that his Mother does defy , shall come to nought and worse , The Ravens shall pick out their eyes , that do their Parents curse : From needy men turn not thy face , let not thy right hand know , What thou dost with thy left hand give , or on the poor bestow . They that upon the poor bestow , unto the Lord do lend , And God unto such men again , a thousandfold will send : As water does the fire quench , whose fury great does grow , Even so shall mercy quench their sins , the which do mercy show . Hear thou God's word with earnest care , with wisdom answer make , Be thou not moved with every wind , such course do sinners take ; Thy talk will show thy fame or shame , fools oft themselves annoy , Trust not thy own will overmuch , for that may thee destroy . They that the living God do fear , a faithful friend shall find : A true friend is a jewel rare , and comfort to the mind . Hear Sermons that good sentences thou mayest conceive aright , In Gods commandments exercise , thy self both day and night . Think on the pain thy mother had , in bringing thee to life ; Fear God who knows thy secret thoughts and look thou make no strife . Visit the sick with carefulness , the Prisoners grief consider , Show pity to the fatherless , and God will thee deliver . Help still to right the widows wrong , remember still thine end , So thou shalt never do amiss , nor wilfully offend : Trust not a reconciled friend , more then and open foe , Who touches pitch , shall be defiled , take heed thou do not so . Take not a Wife that wanton is , and full of shameful words , The flattering of and Harlot is at length more sharp than Swords . Cast not thy love on such a one , whose looks can thee allure , In every face where beauty is , the heart's not always pure . A Woman fair and undiscreet is like a Ring of Gold The which in a Swines Snout is set , unseemly to behold : The malice of lewd women shun , for they will thee destroy , Hate her that does on every Man set her Delight and joy . From others let thy praise proceed , boast not thy self in ought , Nor do not hear a flattering tongue , thereby much ill is wrought : The Child that does his Parents rob , and counteth it no since , A vile destroyer he is deemed , and shall no favour win . Correction brings wisdom found , fools hate good counsel still , That child does shame his mother much , that's let to have his will : The good men path shines as the light that beautifies the day , The wicked know not where they walk for darkness is their way . Put far from thee a froward Mouth , a slanderous tongue is ill , And do not thou and envious mind , in any wise fulfil . A Harlot brings a man to beg , in her is found no truth , In gladness therefore live and die , with the wife of thy youth . Much babbling breeds great offence , he that speaks least is wise , Gods blessing only makes men rich , from thence all joys arise . Better is little fearing God , then bags of gold god ill , And better is one bit of bred , then a fat Ox with ill will . Who brooks no warning hates his lot , true age worship aright , A patient man far better is than one endued with might . men credit comes by doing good , and humble mind indeed Is better then a Liar proud , from whence vain brags proceed . By this dear children you may learn how to direct your ways , To God , to Prince , to Common-wea [ lth ] whereon your welfare stays . Print well in your remembrance , the Lessons I have shown , Then shall you live in happy state , when I am dead and gone . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 