Ann Askew , entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me , Long have I sought but fain would find , what herb in my Garden were best to be A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my body , where I should have sown , the seed of Christs true verity . My spirit within me is vexed soar , my spirit striveth against the same , My sorrows do increase more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with my self being thus at strife , would fain have been at rest : Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord unto a Gardener that I did know , I went and desired him for the love of the Lord , true seed in my Garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will : And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for Venial sins he bid me go : To give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my Salvation , I had Trentals of Mass , and balls of Led not one word spoke of Christs passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds , still Gods spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry to be prayed for while the world does endure . Beware of a new learning ( quoth he ) it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devils works , thinking sufficient my soul to save , Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his mercies I did deprave . I might liken my self with a woeful heart , unto the Dumb-man in Lycia the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas I shall die the sooner therefore ; Oh Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word , Which I will not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot or fierce sword . Strengthen me good Lord in thy truth to stand for the bloody Butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter knives ready drawn in their hands , my simple Carcase to devour & amp ; kill . O Lord forgive me my offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful body from hence , then shall I vile creature offend thee no more . I would wish all creatures and faithful friends for to keep from this Gardners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce firebrands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent seed abroad he hath sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show : I trust hereafter that by Gods holy grace , that all faithful men shall plainly know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my spirit , that art the work master of the same , It is thine Lord , therefore take it oh [ f ] right , my carcase on earth I leave from whence it came . Although to Ashes it be now burned , I know thou canst raise it again : In the same likeness that thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . FINIS . A rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris . Who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinking thereby to compel her to Popery , but she continued to the end , and finished her Life in the Fire . Tune is , Oh Man in desparation . I TO was a Ladies Daughter , of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded , to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me dear mother , her Daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol , I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her Mother then did go , To assemble her kinsfolks , that they the truth may know , Who being then assembled , they did this maiden call , And put her into Prison , to fear her therewithal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Although her years was tender , her faith was firm and sure : She weighed not their allurements , she feared no fiery flame , She hoped through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in fire to to burn , Instead of Golden Bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast , My God grant me with patience , ( quoth she ) to die at last , And on the morrow after , which was her dying day , They stripped this silly Damosel , out of her rich array , Her Chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully , did all the world forsake . Unto the place of Torment , they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant , she willing was to die : But seeing many Ladies assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me , Yourselves I rather pity , I weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her mother weeping , her Daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her , a book covered with Gold : Throw hence quoth she that Idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I take delight . But my distressed mother , why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocent : Tormenter to thine Office , on me when thou thinkest best , But God my heavenly Father , will bring my soul at rest . But Oh my aged Father wherever thou dost lie , Thou knowest not thy poor Daughter , is ready for to die , But yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope do dwell , Therefore my loving Father , I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my Mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feal such woe , Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace Gods true Religion , for which I lose my life . When all these words were ended , then came the man of Death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stopped this Virgins breath : To Christ her only saviour , she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good People , and thus she made and end . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Ann Askew , entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me , Long have I sought but fain would find , what herb in my Garden were best to be A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my body , where I should have sown , the seed of Christs true verity . My spirit within me is vexed soar , my spirit striveth against the same , My sorrows do increase more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with my self being thus at strife , would fain have been at rest : Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord unto a Gardener that I did know , I went and desired him for the love of the Lord , true seed in my Garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will : And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for Venial sins he bid me go : To give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my Salvation , I had Trentals of Mass , and balls of Led not one word spoke of Christs passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds , still Gods spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry to be prayed for while the world does endure . Beware of a new learning ( quoth he ) it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devils works , thinking sufficient my soul to save , Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his mercies I did deprave . I might liken my self with a woeful heart , unto the Dumb-man in Lycia the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas I shall die the sooner therefore ; Oh Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word , Which I will not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot or fierce sword . Strengthen me good Lord in thy truth to stand for the bloody Butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter knives ready drawn in their hands , my simple Carcase to devour & amp ; kill . O Lord forgive me my offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful body from hence , then shall I vile creature offend thee no more . I would wish all creatures and faithful friends for to keep from this Gardners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce firebrands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent seed abroad he hath sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show : I trust hereafter that by Gods holy grace , that all faithful men shall plainly know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my spirit , that art the work master of the same , It is thine Lord , therefore take it oh [ f ] right , my carcase on earth I leave from whence it came . Although to Ashes it be now burned , I know thou canst raise it again : In the same likeness that thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . FINIS . A rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris . Who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinking thereby to compel her to Popery , but she continued to the end , and finished her Life in the Fire . Tune is , Oh Man in desparation . I TO was a Ladies Daughter , of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded , to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me dear mother , her Daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol , I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her Mother then did go , To assemble her kinsfolks , that they the truth may know , Who being then assembled , they did this maiden call , And put her into Prison , to fear her therewithal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Although her years was tender , her faith was firm and sure : She weighed not their allurements , she feared no fiery flame , She hoped through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in fire to to burn , Instead of Golden Bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast , My God grant me with patience , ( quoth she ) to die at last , And on the morrow after , which was her dying day , They stripped this silly Damosel , out of her rich array , Her Chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully , did all the world forsake . Unto the place of Torment , they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant , she willing was to die : But seeing many Ladies assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me , Yourselves I rather pity , I weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her mother weeping , her Daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her , a book covered with Gold : Throw hence quoth she that Idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I take delight . But my distressed mother , why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocent : Tormenter to thine Office , on me when thou thinkest best , But God my heavenly Father , will bring my soul at rest . But Oh my aged Father wherever thou dost lie , Thou knowest not thy poor Daughter , is ready for to die , But yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope do dwell , Therefore my loving Father , I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my Mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feal such woe , Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace Gods true Religion , for which I lose my life . When all these words were ended , then came the man of Death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stopped this Virgins breath : To Christ her only saviour , she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good People , and thus she made and end . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Ann Askew , entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me , Long have I sought but fain would find , what herb in my Garden were best to be A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my body , where I should have sown , the seed of Christs true verity . My spirit within me is vexed soar , my spirit striveth against the same , My sorrows do increase more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with my self being thus at strife , would fain have been at res Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord unto a Gardener that I did know , I went and desired him for the love of the Lord , true seed in my Garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will : And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for Venial sins he bid me go : To give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my Salvation , I had Trentals of Mass , and balls of Led not one word spoke of Christs passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds , still Gods spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry to be pray'd for while the world does endure . Beware of a new learning ( quoth he ) it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devils works , thinking sufficient my soul to save , Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his mercies I did deprave . I might liken my self with a woeful heart , unto the Dumb-man in Lycia the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas I shall die the sooner therefore ; Oh Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word , Which I will not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot or fierce sword . Strengthen me good Lord in thy truth to stand for the bloody Butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter knives ready drawn in their hands , my simple Carcase to devour & kill . O Lord forgive me my offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful body from hence , then shall I vile creature offend thee no more . I would wish all creatures and faithful friends for to keep from this Gardners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce firebrands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent seed abroad he hath sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show : I trust hereafter that by Gods holy grace , that all faithful men shall plainly know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my spirit , that art the work master of the same , It is thine Lord , therefore take it oh [ f ] right , my carcase on earth I leave from whence it came . Although to Ashes it be now burned , I know thou canst raise it again : In the same likeness that thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . FINIS . A rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris . Who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinking thereby to compel her to Popery , but she continued to the end , and finished her Life in the Fire . Tune is , Oh Man in desparation . IT was a Ladies Daughter , of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded , to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me dear mother , her Daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol , I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her Mother then did go , To assemble her kinsfolks , that they the truth may know , Who being then assembled , they did this maiden call , And put her into Prison , to fear her therewithal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Although her years was tender , her faith was firm and sure : She weigh'd not their allurements , she fear'd no fiery flame , She hop'd through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in fire to to burn , Instead of Golden Bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast , My God grant me with patience , ( quoth she ) to die at last , And on the morrow after , which was her dying day , They stripped this silly Damosel , out of her rich array , Her Chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully , did all the world forsake . Unto the place of Torment , they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant , she willing was to die : But seeing many Ladies assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me , Yourselves I rather pity , I weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her mother weeping , her Daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her , a book covered with Gold : Throw hence quoth she that Idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I take delight . But my distressed mother , why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocen Tormenter to thine Office , on me when thou think'st best , But God my heavenly Father , will bring my soul at rest . But Oh my aged Father wherever thou dost lie , Thou knowest not thy poor Daughter , is ready for to die , But yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope do dwell , Therefore my loving Father , I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my Mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feal such woe , Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace Gods true Religion , for which I lose my life . When all these words were ended , then came the man of Death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stopped this Virgins breath : To Christ her only saviour , she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good People , and thus she made and end . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Ann Askew , entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me , Long have I sought but fain would find , what herb in my Garden were best to be A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my body , where I should have sown , the seed of Christs true verity . My spirit within me is vexed soar , my spirit striveth against the same , My sorrows do increase more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with my self being thus at strife , would fain have been at res Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord unto a Gardener that I did know , I went and desired him for the love of the Lord , true seed in my Garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will : And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for Venial sins he bid me go : To give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my Salvation , I had Trentals of Mass , and balls of Led not one word spoke of Christs passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds , still Gods spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry to be pray'd for while the world does endure . Beware of a new learning ( quoth he ) it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devils works , thinking sufficient my soul to save , Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his mercies I did deprave . I might liken my self with a woeful heart , unto the Dumb-man in Lycia the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas I shall die the sooner therefore ; Oh Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word , Which I will not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot or fierce sword . Strengthen me good Lord in thy truth to stand for the bloody Butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter knives ready drawn in their hands , my simple Carcase to devour & kill . O Lord forgive me my offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful body from hence , then shall I vile creature offend thee no more . I would wish all creatures and faithful friends for to keep from this Gardners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce firebrands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent seed abroad he hath sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show : I trust hereafter that by Gods holy grace , that all faithful men shall plainly know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my spirit , that art the work master of the same , It is thine Lord , therefore take it oh [ f ] right , my carcase on earth I leave from whence it came . Although to Ashes it be now burned , I know thou canst raise it again : In the same likeness that thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . FINIS . A rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris . Who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinking thereby to compel her to Popery , but she continued to the end , and finished her Life in the Fire . Tune is , Oh Man in desparation . IT was a Ladies Daughter , of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded , to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me dear mother , her Daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol , I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her Mother then did go , To assemble her kinsfolks , that they the truth may know , Who being then assembled , they did this maiden call , And put her into Prison , to fear her therewithal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Although her years was tender , her faith was firm and sure : She weigh'd not their allurements , she fear'd no fiery flame , She hop'd through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in fire to to burn , Instead of Golden Bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast , My God grant me with patience , ( quoth she ) to die at last , And on the morrow after , which was her dying day , They stripped this silly Damosel , out of her rich array , Her Chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully , did all the world forsake . Unto the place of Torment , they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant , she willing was to die : But seeing many Ladies assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me , Yourselves I rather pity , I weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her mother weeping , her Daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her , a book covered with Gold : Throw hence quoth she that Idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I take delight . But my distressed mother , why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocen Tormenter to thine Office , on me when thou think'st best , But God my heavenly Father , will bring my soul at rest . But Oh my aged Father wherever thou dost lie , Thou knowest not thy poor Daughter , is ready for to die , But yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope do dwell , Therefore my loving Father , I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my Mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feal such woe , Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace Gods true Religion , for which I lose my life . When all these words were ended , then came the man of Death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stopped this Virgins breath : To Christ her only saviour , she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good People , and thus she made and end . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 