David and Bersheba ; To a Pleasant New Tune . W Hen David in Jerusalem as royal King did rule and reign , Behold what happened unto him , that afterwards procured his pain : On the top of all his Princely Palace , a gallant prospect there had he , From whence he might when't pleased his Grace , many a gallant Garden see . It chanced so upon a day , the King went forth to take the air , All in a pleasant month of May , whereas he spied a Lady fair , Her beauty was most excellent , and brighter then the morning Sun , By which the King incontinent , was to her favour quickly wone ; She stood within a pleasant Bower , all naked for to wash her there , Her body like a Lily flower , was covered with her Golden hair : The King was wounded with her Love , and what she was he did require , He could not his affections move , he had in her such great desire , She is Uriah's wife quoth they , a Captain of your princely train , That in your wars is now away , and she does all alone remain . Then said the King bring her to me , for with her love my heart is slave , The Princess of beauty sure is she , for whom I do great grief sustain . The servants they do soon prepare , to do the Message of the King , And Bersheba the Lady fair , unto the Court did quickly bring . The King rejoiced at her sighed , and wone her love and laid her by , All they in sport had spent that night , and that the Sun was risen high : The King his leave most kindly took , till that three months were gone and passed , And then again he did return , with wondrous speed and haste , And then in Bersheba so fair , she found her former health exiled , By certain tokens that she saw , the King had got her with Child : Then to the King she made her moan , and told him how the case did stand , The King sent for her husband home , to cloak the matter out of hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , the King received him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame , concerning of the Enemy : Uriah showed his Highness all the accidents of warlike strife , Then said the King this night you shall , keep company with your own wife . The ark of God Uriah said , with Judah's Host , and Israel Keep in the field and not a man , within the house where they do dwell ; Then should I take my ease , ( quoth he ) in bed of Down with my fair wife , Oh King , he said that may not be , so long as I enjoy my life : Then did the King a Letter frame , to Joab General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , but certainly his life it cost . The Second Part , to the same Tune . A Nd when the King for certain knew , Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Bersheba to the Court he drew , and made of her his Royal Queen . Then God that saw this wicked deed , was angry at King Davids since , The Prophet Nathan then with speed , came thus complaining unto him . O David ponder what I say , a great abuse I shall you tell , For thou that rulest in equity , should see the people ruled well , Two men within the City dwell , the one is Rich the other poor , The Rich in Cattle does excel , the other nothing hath in store , Saving one little silly Sheep , which young he did with money buy , With his own bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly : The Rich Man had a stranger came unto his house that loved him dear , The Poor men Sheep therefore he took and thereof made his friend good cheer , Because that he his own would save , he used the man most cruelly , Then by the Lord the King did swear , the rich man for that fault should die . Thou art the man the Prophet said , the Princely Crown God gave to thee , The Lords wife thou thy own haste made , and many more of fair beauty . Why hast thou so defiled thy life , and slave Uriah with the Sword , And taken home his wedded wife , regarding not Gods holy word , Therefore behold thus says the Lord , great wars upon thy house shall be , Because thou hast my Laws abhorred , much ill be sure i'll cast on thee . I'll take thy wives before thy face , and give them to their neighbours use , And thou thereby shalt reap disgrace , for man shall laugh at thy abuse ; Then David cried out piteously , soar have I sinned against the Lord , In mercy therefore look on me , let not my prayers be abhorred : But as the Prophet told to him , so did it after chance indeed , For God did greatly plague his since , as in the Bible you may read ; The scourge of since thus you may see , for Murder and Adultery , And grant that we may warned be , such crying sins to shun and fly : Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . David and Bersheba ; To a Pleasant New Tune . W Hen David in Jerusalem as royal King did rule and reign , Behold what happened unto him , that afterwards procured his pain : On the top of all his Princely Palace , a gallant prospect there had he , From whence he might when't pleased his Grace , many a gallant Garden see . It chanced so upon a day , the King went forth to take the air , All in a pleasant month of May , whereas he spied a Lady fair , Her beauty was most excellent , and brighter then the morning Sun , By which the King incontinent , was to her favour quickly wone ; She stood within a pleasant Bower , all naked for to wash her there , Her body like a Lily flower , was covered with her Golden hair : The King was wounded with her Love , and what she was he did require , He could not his affections move , he had in her such great desire , She is Uriah's wife quoth they , a Captain of your princely train , That in your wars is now away , and she does all alone remain . Then said the King bring her to me , for with her love my heart is slave , The Princess of beauty sure is she , for whom I do great grief sustain . The servants they do soon prepare , to do the Message of the King , And Bersheba the Lady fair , unto the Court did quickly bring . The King rejoiced at her sighed , and wone her love and laid her by , All they in sport had spent that night , and that the Sun was risen high : The King his leave most kindly took , till that three months were gone and passed , And then again he did return , with wondrous speed and haste , And then in Bersheba so fair , she found her former health exiled , By certain tokens that she saw , the King had got her with Child : Then to the King she made her moan , and told him how the case did stand , The King sent for her husband home , to cloak the matter out of hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , the King received him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame , concerning of the Enemy : Uriah showed his Highness all the accidents of warlike strife , Then said the King this night you shall , keep company with your own wife . The ark of God Uriah said , with Judah's Host , and Israel Keep in the field and not a man , within the house where they do dwell ; Then should I take my ease , ( quoth he ) in bed of Down with my fair wife , Oh King , he said that may not be , so long as I enjoy my life : Then did the King a Letter frame , to Joab General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , but certainly his life it cost . The Second Part , to the same Tune . A Nd when the King for certain knew , Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Bersheba to the Court he drew , and made of her his Royal Queen . Then God that saw this wicked deed , was angry at King Davids since , The Prophet Nathan then with speed , came thus complaining unto him . O David ponder what I say , a great abuse I shall you tell , For thou that rulest in equity , should see the people ruled well , Two men within the City dwell , the one is Rich the other poor , The Rich in Cattle does excel , the other nothing hath in store , Saving one little silly Sheep , which young he did with money buy , With his own bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly : The Rich Man had a stranger came unto his house that loved him dear , The Poor men Sheep therefore he took and thereof made his friend good cheer , Because that he his own would save , he used the man most cruelly , Then by the Lord the King did swear , the rich man for that fault should die . Thou art the man the Prophet said , the Princely Crown God gave to thee , The Lords wife thou thy own haste made , and many more of fair beauty . Why hast thou so defiled thy life , and slave Uriah with the Sword , And taken home his wedded wife , regarding not Gods holy word , Therefore behold thus says the Lord , great wars upon thy house shall be , Because thou hast my Laws abhorred , much ill be sure i'll cast on thee . I'll take thy wives before thy face , and give them to their neighbours use , And thou thereby shalt reap disgrace , for man shall laugh at thy abuse ; Then David cried out piteously , soar have I sinned against the Lord , In mercy therefore look on me , let not my prayers be abhorred : But as the Prophet told to him , so did it after chance indeed , For God did greatly plague his since , as in the Bible you may read ; The scourge of since thus you may see , for Murder and Adultery , And grant that we may warned be , such crying sins to shun and fly : Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 