The Age and Life of MAN . Here you mao see the frailty that in men , Till they have run the years threescore and ten . Tune of , Jane Shore . 1 When man is born he in a Cradle hides 7 At one time seven a Hoby-horse bestrides ; 14. At two times seven a book to read withal ; 21. At three times seven a Bandy and a Ball ; 28. At four times seven a wife he seeks and finds 35. At five times 7 the Horn of strength he winds : 42. At six times seven , Time stands by him still , 49. At seven times seven , his Bag begins to fill : 56. At eight times seven his house with riches shines , 63. At nine times seven , he to the Earth inclines : 70. At ten times seven his Glass & amp ; time is run , Into the earth man falls , his story's done . A S I was wandering all alone A project then I thought upon : The which in my senses ran that I should right the age of man , Man he is Clay , and came from earth and sinners live till day of death From one since to another run and never leaves till he's undone . Then fear your God make no delay , For time and Tide for none will stay . The first of seven years in a Cradle , to stand or go he is not able , While other Creatures making scorn tramples him down when he is born : So weak he is he cannot go and poor is born we all do know Into this world stark naked he came , and so shall go out of the same . Then fear your etc . At two times seven his friends to rule provide for keeping him at School , That what to him in youth is told may do him good when he is old i But he so given is to play he truants most his tune away : When age comes on , he'l then repent . that he his time had so mispent . At three times seven he is very idle that all his friends cannot him bridle . Then fear your God , make no delay . For Time and Tide for none will stay . His thoughts run wandering too and from , persuade him well you are his foe : In other Countries he will Room and have no mind to stay at home : That all his friends are grieved still while he pursues his headstrong will . Then etc . The Second part to the Same Tune . At four times seven a wife he gets , using and mustering up his wits How he should thrive he takes great pains , alas for little or no gains , He then to bend his senses rouse things most convenient for his house : Which in time wasts & amp ; fades away , even so must man that is but Clay . Then fear etc . At five times seven a charge comes on , which in the world few think upon : He labours hard with right good will , striving like stones against a hill : Or like a flood that swiftly goes at one time ebbs , another flows : Even so is man that's rich to day tomorrow God takes all away . Then fear etc . At six times seven then he should leave and for his former folly grieve : His heart is vexed with sobs and sighs for all his former vain delights Good Husbandry he then home takes bad husbandry he then forsakes : And sober lives , and those defy such as do hate good husbandry Then fear etc . At seven times seven a covetous mind is all to which he is inclined Covetous he is in himself to purchase up all worldly wealth . Gathering up that which is but dross which may prove once to be a cross Except his talon he improve towards the poor by acts of love . Then fear your God , make no delay , For time and tide for none will stay . At eight times seven his cunning skill striving with all his worldly will : In bargaining and selling then making his children mighty men . Leaving behind him that which he for it shall never tO [ hank ] ed be As he did gather and lay it by , the Prodig [ a ] l did make it fly . Then fear etc . At nine times seven he waxes old , his limbs benumbed , and veins are cold : His children glad with much content , their father have so good judgement : So knowing is in every cause his wit does make young men to pause : Yet all this world he now must leave and now prepare himself for grave . Then fear etc . At ten times seven his glass is run and he poor soul can no way shun : No , he must leave children and wife , to give the world can't save his life , Happy is he that lives here , and keeps his Conscience pure and clear , Although in dust his body lie his soul shall mount up to the Sky . Then fear etc . Thus have I shown from Stage to Stage , the frail condition of men age , From seven till seven we pass till when we reach the years threescore and ten : Let us all join with one accord , and with due reverence fear the Lord . Then may we all rejoice and sing . Hallelujah to our heavenly King . By P , Fanc [ y ] London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . The Age and Life of MAN . Here you mao see the frailty that in men , Till they have run the years threescore and ten . Tune of , Jane Shore . 1 When man is born he in a Cradle hides 7 At one time seven a Hoby-horse bestrides ; 14. At two times seven a book to read withal ; 21. At three times seven a Bandy and a Ball ; 28. At four times seven a wife he seeks and finds 35. At five times 7 the Horn of strength he winds : 42. At six times seven , Time stands by him still , 49. At seven times seven , his Bag begins to fill : 56. At eight times seven his house with riches shines , 63. At nine times seven , he to the Earth inclines : 70. At ten times seven his Glass & amp ; time is run , Into the earth man falls , his story's done . A S I was wandering all alone A project then I thought upon : The which in my senses ran that I should right the age of man , Man he is Clay , and came from earth and sinners live till day of death From one since to another run and never leaves till he's undone . Then fear your God make no delay , For time and Tide for none will stay . The first of seven years in a Cradle , to stand or go he is not able , While other Creatures making scorn tramples him down when he is born : So weak he is he cannot go and poor is born we all do know Into this world stark naked he came , and so shall go out of the same . Then fear your etc . At two times seven his friends to rule provide for keeping him at School , That what to him in youth is told may do him good when he is old i But he so given is to play he truants most his tune away : When age comes on , he'l then repent . that he his time had so mispent . At three times seven he is very idle that all his friends cannot him bridle . Then fear your God , make no delay . For Time and Tide for none will stay . His thoughts run wandering too and from , persuade him well you are his foe : In other Countries he will Room and have no mind to stay at home : That all his friends are grieved still while he pursues his headstrong will . Then etc . The Second part to the Same Tune . At four times seven a wife he gets , using and mustering up his wits How he should thrive he takes great pains , alas for little or no gains , He then to bend his senses rouse things most convenient for his house : Which in time wasts & amp ; fades away , even so must man that is but Clay . Then fear etc . At five times seven a charge comes on , which in the world few think upon : He labours hard with right good will , striving like stones against a hill : Or like a flood that swiftly goes at one time ebbs , another flows : Even so is man that's rich to day tomorrow God takes all away . Then fear etc . At six times seven then he should leave and for his former folly grieve : His heart is vexed with sobs and sighs for all his former vain delights Good Husbandry he then home takes bad husbandry he then forsakes : And sober lives , and those defy such as do hate good husbandry Then fear etc . At seven times seven a covetous mind is all to which he is inclined Covetous he is in himself to purchase up all worldly wealth . Gathering up that which is but dross which may prove once to be a cross Except his talon he improve towards the poor by acts of love . Then fear your God , make no delay , For time and tide for none will stay . At eight times seven his cunning skill striving with all his worldly will : In bargaining and selling then making his children mighty men . Leaving behind him that which he for it shall never tO [ hank ] ed be As he did gather and lay it by , the Prodig [ a ] l did make it fly . Then fear etc . At nine times seven he waxes old , his limbs benumbed , and veins are cold : His children glad with much content , their father have so good judgement : So knowing is in every cause his wit does make young men to pause : Yet all this world he now must leave and now prepare himself for grave . Then fear etc . At ten times seven his glass is run and he poor soul can no way shun : No , he must leave children and wife , to give the world can't save his life , Happy is he that lives here , and keeps his Conscience pure and clear , Although in dust his body lie his soul shall mount up to the Sky . Then fear etc . Thus have I shown from Stage to Stage , the frail condition of men age , From seven till seven we pass till when we reach the years threescore and ten : Let us all join with one accord , and with due reverence fear the Lord . Then may we all rejoice and sing . Hallelujah to our heavenly King . By P , Fanc [ y ] London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . 