The Slighted Maid , OR , The Pining Lover . With sighs and moans she does entreat her Dear , while he seems to be deaf and will not hear : At length his frozen heart begins to melt , being moved with the passion she had felt . To the Tune of , I prithee love turn to me . W As ever Maiden so scorned , by one that she loved so dear ; Long time I have sighed and mourned , and still my love will not hear : Oh turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee love turn to me ; For thou art the Lad I long for , and alas what remedy . My lodging is on the cold ground , and very hard is my fare , But that which troubles me most is , the unkindness of my Dear : Oh turn to me , etc . O stop not thy ear , to the wailings , of me a poor harmless Maid ; You know we are subject to failings , blind Cupid hath me betrayed : And now I must cry Oh turn love , etc . How canst thou be so hard hearted , and cruel to me alone ; If ever we should be parted , then all my delight is gone ; But ever I cry Oh turn love , and I prithee love turn to me : For thou art the man that alone art , the cause of my misery . I ' Le make thee pretty sweet Posies , and constant I ever will prove , I'll strow thy Chamber with Roses , and all to delight my love : Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me : For thou art the man that alone can , procure my liberty . I'll do my endeavour to please thee , by making the bed full soft , Of all thy sorrows i'll ease thee , by Kissing thy lips full oft : Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone can , procure my liberty . But thou wilt harden thy heart still , and be deaf to my pitiful moan , So I must endure the smart still , and tumble in straw all alone : While still I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone art , the cause of my misery . If that thou still do disdain me , I never will love thee more , Thy cruelty shall never pain me , for i'll have another in store : But still I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone art , the cause of my misery . By hearing her pitiful clamour , the passion of Love he felt ; He could no longer disdain her , his frozen heart it did melt : For ever she cried Oh turn love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone can , procure my liber tO y . He said my Love I will please thee , thy heaviness grieves me soar , But let not sorrow once seize thee , I never will grieve thee more : I'll turn to thee my own kind heart , dear love i'll turn to thee ; For I am the man that now am come , to procure thy liberty . I'll crown thee with a garland of straw then , and marry thee with a rush ring , My frozen heart it will thaw then , and merrily we will sing : B ut ever she cried Oh turn love , and I prithee love turn to me , For thou art the man , that alone can , release my misery . Most lovingly he embraced her , and called her his hearts delight ; And close by his side he placed her , all sorrows was vanquished quite : And now she for joy cried turn love , and I prithee love turn to me ; For thou art the man that alone haste , released me of misery Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Saffro [ n - ] hill , [ near Hatton-garden ] The Slighted Maid , OR , The Pining Lover . With sighs and moans she does entreat her Dear , while he seems to be deaf and will not hear : At length his frozen heart begins to melt , being moved with the passion she had felt . To the Tune of , I prithee love turn to me . W As ever Maiden so scorned , by one that she loved so dear ; Long time I have sighed and mourned , and still my love will not hear : Oh turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee love turn to me ; For thou art the Lad I long for , and alas what remedy . My lodging is on the cold ground , and very hard is my fare , But that which troubles me most is , the unkindness of my Dear : Oh turn to me , etc . O stop not thy ear , to the wailings , of me a poor harmless Maid ; You know we are subject to failings , blind Cupid hath me betrayed : And now I must cry Oh turn love , etc . How canst thou be so hard hearted , and cruel to me alone ; If ever we should be parted , then all my delight is gone ; But ever I cry Oh turn love , and I prithee love turn to me : For thou art the man that alone art , the cause of my misery . I ' Le make thee pretty sweet Posies , and constant I ever will prove , I'll strow thy Chamber with Roses , and all to delight my love : Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me : For thou art the man that alone can , procure my liberty . I'll do my endeavour to please thee , by making the bed full soft , Of all thy sorrows i'll ease thee , by Kissing thy lips full oft : Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone can , procure my liberty . But thou wilt harden thy heart still , and be deaf to my pitiful moan , So I must endure the smart still , and tumble in straw all alone : While still I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone art , the cause of my misery . If that thou still do disdain me , I never will love thee more , Thy cruelty shall never pain me , for i'll have another in store : But still I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone art , the cause of my misery . By hearing her pitiful clamour , the passion of Love he felt ; He could no longer disdain her , his frozen heart it did melt : For ever she cried Oh turn love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone can , procure my liber tO y . He said my Love I will please thee , thy heaviness grieves me soar , But let not sorrow once seize thee , I never will grieve thee more : I'll turn to thee my own kind heart , dear love i'll turn to thee ; For I am the man that now am come , to procure thy liberty . I'll crown thee with a garland of straw then , and marry thee with a rush ring , My frozen heart it will thaw then , and merrily we will sing : B ut ever she cried Oh turn love , and I prithee love turn to me , For thou art the man , that alone can , release my misery . Most lovingly he embraced her , and called her his hearts delight ; And close by his side he placed her , all sorrows was vanquished quite : And now she for joy cried turn love , and I prithee love turn to me ; For thou art the man that alone haste , released me of misery Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Saffro [ n - ] hill , [ near Hatton-garden ] 