The Good Christians Admonition to all Young-Men , Not to Forget their State of Mortality . What Man is he that lives , that shall not die ? Or w [ h ] oh is he that can with Death outvie ? Our Predecessors died , and shall not we Prepare for Death , and for Eternity ? To the Tune of , The Father's Good Counsel . Entered according to Order . A Las ! why should we thus lament , let's live in love and unity ; And let us labour for content , it is the only remedy . since is the cause of all this strife , as we may plainly understand , Let each man strive to mend his life , that peace may flourish in the Land. Could we but live in Charity , we soon should find a blessed state , Could we but heartily agree , would put and end to all debate . O strive to led a sober life , and cast away all kind of Pride , Be free from malice and from strife , and God will surely be your guide . When thou art in the midst of strength , and like a flower in the prime , Thy days are like a span in length , Oh who would waste their precious time Those painted Cheeks of vanity , that does delight thy mortal eye ; Will bring but ruin unto thee , poor soul , when thou shalt come to die Let youngmen learn for to be wise , be careful what you do or say , See that you do good counsel prize , and strive Gods Laws for to obey . We see how some do vaunt in pride , as if there were no God to fear , They'll scoff and flout , and will deride , at those that make a Conscience here . Though some are clothed in garments brave and others are in poor array ; They'll both be equal in the Grave , and also in the latter day . There's no respect to rich or poor , therefore let piety increase , That when this life shall be no more , we may lay down our heads in peace . Both young and old , and rich and poor , hath but a short abiding here , I say , prepare for death therefore , be just and keep your conscience clear . O do not gripe nor grind the poor , but pity those in misery , The Lord he will increase thy store , and bless thy whole posterity . Then let not worldly wealth allure , thy heart from love to steal away , For who is he that can be sure , to live to see another day . Though thou hast great possessions here , to which thy heart is so inclined , Although thou lovest them never so dear , yet thou must leave them all behind . Believe me Friend , for this is truth , death comes like a nimble page , As often in our blooming youth , as in the winter of old age . Death's Warrant never will revoke , he spares neither high nor low , For when he comes to give the blow , he says it must and shall be so . O never envy any man , by any thought , word , work , or deed , But do you all the good you can , for those that truly stand in need . Thus let your dealings be upright , in whatsoever you undertake , Although the world may you affright , yet God will never you forsake . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate . The Good Christians Admonition to all Young-Men , Not to Forget their State of Mortality . What Man is he that lives , that shall not die ? Or w [ h ] oh is he that can with Death outvie ? Our Predecessors died , and shall not we Prepare for Death , and for Eternity ? To the Tune of , The Father's Good Counsel . Entered according to Order . A Las ! why should we thus lament , let's live in love and unity ; And let us labour for content , it is the only remedy . since is the cause of all this strife , as we may plainly understand , Let each man strive to mend his life , that peace may flourish in the Land. Could we but live in Charity , we soon should find a blessed state , Could we but heartily agree , would put and end to all debate . O strive to led a sober life , and cast away all kind of Pride , Be free from malice and from strife , and God will surely be your guide . When thou art in the midst of strength , and like a flower in the prime , Thy days are like a span in length , Oh who would waste their precious time Those painted Cheeks of vanity , that does delight thy mortal eye ; Will bring but ruin unto thee , poor soul , when thou shalt come to die Let youngmen learn for to be wise , be careful what you do or say , See that you do good counsel prize , and strive Gods Laws for to obey . We see how some do vaunt in pride , as if there were no God to fear , They'll scoff and flout , and will deride , at those that make a Conscience here . Though some are clothed in garments brave and others are in poor array ; They'll both be equal in the Grave , and also in the latter day . There's no respect to rich or poor , therefore let piety increase , That when this life shall be no more , we may lay down our heads in peace . Both young and old , and rich and poor , hath but a short abiding here , I say , prepare for death therefore , be just and keep your conscience clear . O do not gripe nor grind the poor , but pity those in misery , The Lord he will increase thy store , and bless thy whole posterity . Then let not worldly wealth allure , thy heart from love to steal away , For who is he that can be sure , to live to see another day . Though thou hast great possessions here , to which thy heart is so inclined , Although thou lovest them never so dear , yet thou must leave them all behind . Believe me Friend , for this is truth , death comes like a nimble page , As often in our blooming youth , as in the winter of old age . Death's Warrant never will revoke , he spares neither high nor low , For when he comes to give the blow , he says it must and shall be so . O never envy any man , by any thought , word , work , or deed , But do you all the good you can , for those that truly stand in need . Thus let your dealings be upright , in whatsoever you undertake , Although the world may you affright , yet God will never you forsake . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate . 