The Sinners Redemption , Wherein is described the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ ; Together with his Life on the Earth , and precious death on the Cross for Mankind . To the Tune of , The Bleeding Heart . A LL you that are to mirth inclined , Consider well and bear in mind , What our good God for us hath done , In sending his beloved son . Let all your Songs and praises be , Unto his Heavenly Majesty ; And evermore among your mirth , Remember Christ our Saviours birth . The five and twentieth of December , Good cause we have for to remember , In Bethelem upon this morn , There was our blessed Messias born . The night before that happy tide , The spotless Virgin and her guide , Were long time seeking up and down , To find them lodging in the town . And mark how all things came to pass , The Inns and Lodgins filled was , That they could have no room at all , But in a silly Oxes stall . This night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe delivered of a Child : According unto Heavens decree , men sweet salvation for to be . Near Bethelem did Shepherd's keep Their herds and flocks of feeding sheep , To whom Gods Angel did appear , Which put the Shepherd's in great fear . Prepare and go the Angel said , To Bethelem , be not afraid , There shall you find this blessed morn , The Princely Babe sweet Jesus Born . W Ith thankful hearts & amp ; joyful mind the shepherd's went this babe to find And as the Heavenly Angel told , They did our saviour Christ behold . Within a manger was he laid , The Virgin Marry by him stayed , Attending on the Lord of life , Being both Mother , Maid , and Wife . Three Eastern wisemen from afar , Directed by a glorious star , Came boldly on , and made no stay Until they came where Jesus lay . And being come unto the place , Whereas the blessed Mesias was ; They humbly laid before his feet , Their gifts of gold and odour sweet . See how the Lord of Heaven and earth , Showed himself lowly in his Birth , A sweet example for mankind , To learn to bear and humble mind . No costly Robes nor rich attire , Did Jesus Christ our Lord desire , No music nor sweet harmony , Till glorious Angels from on high Did in melodious manner sing Praises unto our heavenly King , All honour , glory , might and power , Be unto Christ our Saviour . If Quires of Angels did rejoice , Well may mankind with heart and voice Sing praises to the God of Heaven , That unto us his son has given , Moreover let us every one , Call unto mind and think upon His Righteous life , and how he died , To have poor sinners justified . Suppose Oh man that thou shouldst lie , In Prison strong condemned to die , And that no friend upon the earth Could ransom thee from cruel death . Except thou can some party find , That for thy sake will be so kind , His owo hearts blood for to dispense ; And lose his life in thy defence . Such was the love of Christ when we , Were lost to Hell perpetually ; To save them from the gulf of woe , Himself much pain did undergo . While in this world he did remain , He never spent one hour in vain , In fasting and in prayer divine , He daily spent away the time . He in the Temple daily taught , And many wonders strange he wrought , He gave the blind their perfect sighed , And made the Lame to go upright . He cured the Leaper of their evils , And by his power he cast out Devils , He raised Lazarus from the grave , And to the sick their health he gave . But yet for all these wonders wrought , The Jews his dire destruction sought , The Traitor Judas was the man , That with a kiss betrayed him then . Then was he led to Justice Hall , Like one despised among them all , And had the sentence given that he , Should suffer death upon a Tree . Unto the Execution place , they brought him on with much disgrace , With vild reproachful taunts and storns , they crowned him with a wreathe of thorns Then to the cross through hands & amp ; feet They nailed our blessed Redeemer sweet , And further to augment his smart , With bloody spear they pierced his heart Thus have you seen and herd aright , The love of Christ the Lord of life , And how he shed his precious blood , Only to do us Sinners good . P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . The Sinners Redemption , Wherein is described the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ ; Together with his Life on the Earth , and precious death on the Cross for Mankind . To the Tune of , The Bleeding Heart . A LL you that are to mirth inclined , Consider well and bear in mind , What our good God for us hath done , In sending his beloved son . Let all your Songs and praises be , Unto his Heavenly Majesty ; And evermore among your mirth , Remember Christ our Saviours birth . The five and twentieth of December , Good cause we have for to remember , In Bethelem upon this morn , There was our blessed Messias born . The night before that happy tide , The spotless Virgin and her guide , Were long time seeking up and down , To find them lodging in the town . And mark how all things came to pass , The Inns and Lodgins filled was , That they could have no room at all , But in a silly Oxes stall . This night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe delivered of a Child : According unto Heavens decree , men sweet salvation for to be . Near Bethelem did Shepherd's keep Their herds and flocks of feeding sheep , To whom Gods Angel did appear , Which put the Shepherd's in great fear . Prepare and go the Angel said , To Bethelem , be not afraid , There shall you find this blessed morn , The Princely Babe sweet Jesus Born . W Ith thankful hearts & amp ; joyful mind the shepherd's went this babe to find And as the Heavenly Angel told , They did our saviour Christ behold . Within a manger was he laid , The Virgin Marry by him stayed , Attending on the Lord of life , Being both Mother , Maid , and Wife . Three Eastern wisemen from afar , Directed by a glorious star , Came boldly on , and made no stay Until they came where Jesus lay . And being come unto the place , Whereas the blessed Mesias was ; They humbly laid before his feet , Their gifts of gold and odour sweet . See how the Lord of Heaven and earth , Showed himself lowly in his Birth , A sweet example for mankind , To learn to bear and humble mind . No costly Robes nor rich attire , Did Jesus Christ our Lord desire , No music nor sweet harmony , Till glorious Angels from on high Did in melodious manner sing Praises unto our heavenly King , All honour , glory , might and power , Be unto Christ our Saviour . If Quires of Angels did rejoice , Well may mankind with heart and voice Sing praises to the God of Heaven , That unto us his son has given , Moreover let us every one , Call unto mind and think upon His Righteous life , and how he died , To have poor sinners justified . Suppose Oh man that thou shouldst lie , In Prison strong condemned to die , And that no friend upon the earth Could ransom thee from cruel death . Except thou can some party find , That for thy sake will be so kind , His owo hearts blood for to dispense ; And lose his life in thy defence . Such was the love of Christ when we , Were lost to Hell perpetually ; To save them from the gulf of woe , Himself much pain did undergo . While in this world he did remain , He never spent one hour in vain , In fasting and in prayer divine , He daily spent away the time . He in the Temple daily taught , And many wonders strange he wrought , He gave the blind their perfect sighed , And made the Lame to go upright . He cured the Leaper of their evils , And by his power he cast out Devils , He raised Lazarus from the grave , And to the sick their health he gave . But yet for all these wonders wrought , The Jews his dire destruction sought , The Traitor Judas was the man , That with a kiss betrayed him then . Then was he led to Justice Hall , Like one despised among them all , And had the sentence given that he , Should suffer death upon a Tree . Unto the Execution place , they brought him on with much disgrace , With vild reproachful taunts and storns , they crowned him with a wreathe of thorns Then to the cross through hands & amp ; feet They nailed our blessed Redeemer sweet , And further to augment his smart , With bloody spear they pierced his heart Thus have you seen and herd aright , The love of Christ the Lord of life , And how he shed his precious blood , Only to do us Sinners good . P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 