The Lamenting Ladies last Farewell to the WORLD . Who being in a strange Exile , bewails her own misery , complains upon fortune and destiny , describeth the manner of her breeding deplores the loss of her parents , wishing peace and happiness to England , which was her native Country , and withal resolving for death , cheerfully commended her Soul to Heaven , and her bo - die to the earth , and quietly departed this Life , Anno 1650. To and excellent new Tune : Oh hone , Oh hone . M Ournful M elpomany , assist my Quill : That I my pensively now make my will : Guide thou my hand to write And senses to indite , A Ladies last good night Oh pity me . I that was nobly born , hither am sent , Like to a wretch forlorn , here to lament : In this most strange exile Here to lament a while , Till heaven be pleased to smile and send for me . My friends can't come nigh me in this place , Nor bear me company , such is my case : Poor I am left alone , But few regard my moan , All my delights are gone , heaven succour me . Each day with care and fears I am perplexed , My drink is brinsh tears , with sorrow mixed : When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and week , Oppressed with dangers deep , Lord comfort me . W Hen England flourished , my Parents dear , Tenderly nourished , me many a year , I was advanced on high , In place of Dignity , In Golden bravery , they decked me . My garments dect with gold richly approved , Never was English Girl better beloved : Old & amp ; young , great & amp ; small Waited upon my call , I had the Love of all , that did know me . But from my former state , I am called back , Through destiny and fate , all goes to wrack , Fortune did lately frown , And caught me by the crown , So pulled me headlong down o woe is me . My dear friends are decayed which loved me best , Never was harmless Maid , so much distressed : My Father he is dead , My Mother banished , All joys are from me fled , heavens comfort me . How well are they at ease , and sweetly blessed , that may go where they will and when they list , To see their Parents kind , As nature does them bind , Such joys I cannot find , o woe is me . All earthly helps are gone , I will and must , only in god alone , put my whole trust , Oh blessed Trinity , One God and Persons three , Release my misery , and comfort me . No creature on the Earth , can ease my grief , Until such time as death yields me relief : A Coffin and a Grave , Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my soul receive and succour me . My Enemies that be , both great and small , Good Lord I pray to thee , forgive them all : May England flourish brave , When I am laid in Grave , So thus I take my leave , Christ calls for me . I have in heaven above , a place prepared , Never shall I depart , from thence afterwards : Go tole my Passing-bell , While Angels ring my Knell So vain world now farewell , Christ sends for me . when she these words had spoke with cheerful heart , The Noble-minded Maid then did depart , No doubt her Souls at rest , with them which God hath blessed The last words she expressed , was Christ calls for me . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J Clarke W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. PassingerThe Lamenting Ladies last Farewell to the WORLD . Who being in a strange Exile , bewails her own misery , complains upon fortune and destiny , describeth the manner of her breeding deplores the loss of her parents , wishing peace and happiness to England , which was her native Country , and withal resolving for death , cheerfully commended her Soul to Heaven , and her bo - die to the earth , and quietly departed this Life , Anno 1650. To and excellent new Tune : Oh hone , Oh hone . M Ournful M elpomany , assist my Quill : That I my pensively now make my will : Guide thou my hand to write And senses to indite , A Ladies last good night Oh pity me . I that was nobly born , hither am sent , Like to a wretch forlorn , here to lament : In this most strange exile Here to lament a while , Till heaven be pleased to smile and send for me . My friends can't come nigh me in this place , Nor bear me company , such is my case : Poor I am left alone , But few regard my moan , All my delights are gone , heaven succour me . Each day with care and fears I am perplexed , My drink is brinsh tears , with sorrow mixed : When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and week , Oppressed with dangers deep , Lord comfort me . W Hen England flourished , my Parents dear , Tenderly nourished , me many a year , I was advanced on high , In place of Dignity , In Golden bravery , they decked me . My garments dect with gold richly approved , Never was English Girl better beloved : Old & amp ; young , great & amp ; small Waited upon my call , I had the Love of all , that did know me . But from my former state , I am called back , Through destiny and fate , all goes to wrack , Fortune did lately frown , And caught me by the crown , So pulled me headlong down o woe is me . My dear friends are decayed which loved me best , Never was harmless Maid , so much distressed : My Father he is dead , My Mother banished , All joys are from me fled , heavens comfort me . How well are they at ease , and sweetly blessed , that may go where they will and when they list , To see their Parents kind , As nature does them bind , Such joys I cannot find , o woe is me . All earthly helps are gone , I will and must , only in god alone , put my whole trust , Oh blessed Trinity , One God and Persons three , Release my misery , and comfort me . No creature on the Earth , can ease my grief , Until such time as death yields me relief : A Coffin and a Grave , Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my soul receive and succour me . My Enemies that be , both great and small , Good Lord I pray to thee , forgive them all : May England flourish brave , When I am laid in Grave , So thus I take my leave , Christ calls for me . I have in heaven above , a place prepared , Never shall I depart , from thence afterwards : Go tole my Passing-bell , While Angels ring my Knell So vain world now farewell , Christ sends for me . when she these words had spoke with cheerful heart , The Noble-minded Maid then did depart , No doubt her Souls at rest , with them which God hath blessed The last words she expressed , was Christ calls for me . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J Clarke W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger 