A Caveat for Youngmen . Youngmen Repentance do delay , And think not of their Dying day , Till Death does come and with his Dart , Does pierce the Youngman's stubborn heart . Tune , Aim not too high . G Ive ear to me you youngmen while I write Nothing but truth , hoping to bring to light Your secret thoughts which in your Bosoms lie , And let you know all flesh is born to die , The young as well as old must to the Grave , Both King and Peasant must this portion have , Old men must die , then youngmen call to mind For certain you must not stay long behind . Then led your lives as Christians ought to do , You do not know when Death shall come for you , Today , before to morrow you may die , And your immortal soul from you may fly . Trust not for to repent when you are old , You have no Lease of life , then why so bold , When pale faced Death shall give the blow , There's no redress , down to the Grave you go . O wretched man is he whom Death shall take Ever he's aware , and hath his peace to make , Then young and old prepare your selves for death , Your time is short , repent while you have breath . But youngmen they are apt for to defer Repentance to the last , herein they err , And Death does often snatch youngmen away , Turning to dismal night , there hoped for day . The middle aged man Death does not spare , This needful then that all men should prepare , For Death is so impartial that he'l strike At young and old and middle age alike . And he that is prepared he need not fear , For he is not dismayed when Death draws near , His soul is happy that his peace hath made , And covets in the Dust for to be laid . How many thousands is there in this Land , That never thinks on Death till this at hand , When on their Deathbeds languishing they lie , Their souls are frighted , they're afraid to die . Death seems to them a grim and ghastly sighed , The sins wherein they once did take delight , Now seem most dreadful , while the Grave's half made , The soul prepared , of Death is not afraid . Young men suppose they're active , stout and strong , Sure Death will not surprise them while they're young , When their old their sins they will repent But oft too late their follies they Lament , Why should found man forget his chiefest end , For which God did into the world him send , And not provide against the hour of Death , Since certain this that it shall stop their breath . The greatest Monarch must be forced to yield , But the time when , to no man is revealed , This year or day may be the last that we For ought we know may ever live to see . That man had better never to have been , Than live in Vanity and die in since , For as the Tree does fallen so it does lie , And since brings sorrow for a certainty . Let not vain pleasure have the chiefest room In your poor hearts , lest it procures your Doom , For worldly pleasures always disagree With Heavenly things of immortality . And those who for their souls take special care , Mind not the things whom sinners count m [ over ] rar [ e ] But set their whole delight on things above , Things that are well deserving of their Love . And prize that thing called your immortal soul , lest you for ever after do condoul , Think not to find Repentance in the Grave , But while you live study your souls to save . A day is coming when you must account For all misdeeds which daily do amount , To such a sum of sins none can forgive , But God alone who does for ever live . When on your Pillow you do lay your head , Ere morning comes perhaps you may be dead , Then make your peace before death gives the blow This happy for you if you can do so . And yet found world you'll say you're loath to leave , These thoughts do but all mortal men deceive , Theres nothing here that's worthy of your love , Seek after blessings flowing from above . Printed for M. Coal , TO , Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . A Caveat for Youngmen . Youngmen Repentance do delay , And think not of their Dying day , Till Death does come and with his Dart , Does pierce the Youngman's stubborn heart . Tune , Aim not too high . G Ive ear to me you youngmen while I write Nothing but truth , hoping to bring to light Your secret thoughts which in your Bosoms lie , And let you know all flesh is born to die , The young as well as old must to the Grave , Both King and Peasant must this portion have , Old men must die , then youngmen call to mind For certain you must not stay long behind . Then led your lives as Christians ought to do , You do not know when Death shall come for you , Today , before to morrow you may die , And your immortal soul from you may fly . Trust not for to repent when you are old , You have no Lease of life , then why so bold , When pale faced Death shall give the blow , There's no redress , down to the Grave you go . O wretched man is he whom Death shall take Ever he's aware , and hath his peace to make , Then young and old prepare your selves for death , Your time is short , repent while you have breath . But youngmen they are apt for to defer Repentance to the last , herein they err , And Death does often snatch youngmen away , Turning to dismal night , there hoped for day . The middle aged man Death does not spare , This needful then that all men should prepare , For Death is so impartial that he'l strike At young and old and middle age alike . And he that is prepared he need not fear , For he is not dismayed when Death draws near , His soul is happy that his peace hath made , And covets in the Dust for to be laid . How many thousands is there in this Land , That never thinks on Death till this at hand , When on their Deathbeds languishing they lie , Their souls are frighted , they're afraid to die . Death seems to them a grim and ghastly sighed , The sins wherein they once did take delight , Now seem most dreadful , while the Grave's half made , The soul prepared , of Death is not afraid . Young men suppose they're active , stout and strong , Sure Death will not surprise them while they're young , When their old their sins they will repent But oft too late their follies they Lament , Why should found man forget his chiefest end , For which God did into the world him send , And not provide against the hour of Death , Since certain this that it shall stop their breath . The greatest Monarch must be forced to yield , But the time when , to no man is revealed , This year or day may be the last that we For ought we know may ever live to see . That man had better never to have been , Than live in Vanity and die in since , For as the Tree does fallen so it does lie , And since brings sorrow for a certainty . Let not vain pleasure have the chiefest room In your poor hearts , lest it procures your Doom , For worldly pleasures always disagree With Heavenly things of immortality . And those who for their souls take special care , Mind not the things whom sinners count m [ over ] rar [ e ] But set their whole delight on things above , Things that are well deserving of their Love . And prize that thing called your immortal soul , lest you for ever after do condoul , Think not to find Repentance in the Grave , But while you live study your souls to save . A day is coming when you must account For all misdeeds which daily do amount , To such a sum of sins none can forgive , But God alone who does for ever live . When on your Pillow you do lay your head , Ere morning comes perhaps you may be dead , Then make your peace before death gives the blow This happy for you if you can do so . And yet found world you'll say you're loath to leave , These thoughts do but all mortal men deceive , Theres nothing here that's worthy of your love , Seek after blessings flowing from above . Printed for M. Coal , TO , Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 