THE Dying Christians friendly Advice . To Sinners all , and every Christian Friend , This my advice I freely recommend . And wish them all while they have time and breath , To make Provision for to meet with Death . To the Tune of , Aim not too high . This may be Printed , R. L. S. Y Ou Mortal men who vainly spend your youth , In Sinful pleasure , slighting of the truth , Repent with speed , the judgement day draws nigh , You answer must for all assuredly . Before the Great Trybunal Bar you must Give your accounts , before a Judge most just , Who sees what you in secret often doe , Conscience shall witness bear against you too . How sad and dreadful for you will it be , When you Launch forth into eternity ; Except the Lord his anger does abate , And Jesus Christ does prove your advocate . Mind well my words you sinful creatures all , And to JEHOVAH do for mercy call : While you have breath of God for mercy crave , For there is no repentance in the grave . And yet how boldly men run on in since , That they so many years have lived in , Like perfect Heathens many people live , As if they never were account to give . Whoredom , and drunkenness is all a mode , Although to Hell it is the ready Road : And yet securely some do walk therein , As if it were a precept , and no Sin. But it'll be heavy at the latter day , If then they do in vain for pardon pray ; If to befriend you Christ should then deny , Your Souls are lost to all eternity . Then call upon Christs ever blessed name , To save you from that everlasting flame ; Where Fiends and Devils do for ever fry ? And must endure their endless misery . Then labour to obtain Eternal life , Betwixt God and your poor Souls never make a strife Thrice happy without doubt or fear is he , Who proves in his dear favour for to be . But man is prove to since , and is so frail , That over him temptations do prevail : Which to the Soul gives such a deadly wound , That Soul and body stiil in since are drowned . Damming and sinking are so common grown , The like before this age was never known , Inhumane murders frequently we see ; Some men of late like Butchers seem to be . Yet drowsy Sinners never will awake , Nor yet by others will a warning take ; For time does slide and swiftly pass away , One hour or minute for no man will stay . O pity take on your immortal Soul , lest when it is too late you do condole , Though Christ a while in mercy does forbear , Consider well you dreadful Sinners are , And on his name if you sincerely call , Begging his help to bring you out of thrall ; There is no doubt but he your friend will be , And help you out of all your misery . On Jesus Christ let all your hope's depend , And he will prove your Saviour in the end , From pains and sorrows he will set you free , With Saints and Angels you shall happy be . This momentary life is little worth , That nothing else but misery brings forth : Oh who would praise so vain a thing as this , To be deprived of eternal Bliss . With contrite hearts upon our Saviour call , For doubtless he hath Love in store for all ; And certainly forever will be kind , To those that he true penitents does find . All you that to my Song now lend and ear , Pray bear in mind the words that you do hear ; Your Sins repent , to God for mercy pray , And be prepared for the Trybunal Day . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within AldgateTHE Dying Christians friendly Advice . To Sinners all , and every Christian Friend , This my advice I freely recommend . And wish them all while they have time and breath , To make Provision for to meet with Death . To the Tune of , Aim not too high . This may be Printed , R. L. S. Y Ou Mortal men who vainly spend your youth , In Sinful pleasure , slighting of the truth , Repent with speed , the judgement day draws nigh , You answer must for all assuredly . Before the Great Trybunal Bar you must Give your accounts , before a Judge most just , Who sees what you in secret often doe , Conscience shall witness bear against you too . How sad and dreadful for you will it be , When you Launch forth into eternity ; Except the Lord his anger does abate , And Jesus Christ does prove your advocate . Mind well my words you sinful creatures all , And to JEHOVAH do for mercy call : While you have breath of God for mercy crave , For there is no repentance in the grave . And yet how boldly men run on in since , That they so many years have lived in , Like perfect Heathens many people live , As if they never were account to give . Whoredom , and drunkenness is all a mode , Although to Hell it is the ready Road : And yet securely some do walk therein , As if it were a precept , and no Sin. But it'll be heavy at the latter day , If then they do in vain for pardon pray ; If to befriend you Christ should then deny , Your Souls are lost to all eternity . Then call upon Christs ever blessed name , To save you from that everlasting flame ; Where Fiends and Devils do for ever fry ? And must endure their endless misery . Then labour to obtain Eternal life , Betwixt God and your poor Souls never make a strife Thrice happy without doubt or fear is he , Who proves in his dear favour for to be . But man is prove to since , and is so frail , That over him temptations do prevail : Which to the Soul gives such a deadly wound , That Soul and body stiil in since are drowned . Damming and sinking are so common grown , The like before this age was never known , Inhumane murders frequently we see ; Some men of late like Butchers seem to be . Yet drowsy Sinners never will awake , Nor yet by others will a warning take ; For time does slide and swiftly pass away , One hour or minute for no man will stay . O pity take on your immortal Soul , lest when it is too late you do condole , Though Christ a while in mercy does forbear , Consider well you dreadful Sinners are , And on his name if you sincerely call , Begging his help to bring you out of thrall ; There is no doubt but he your friend will be , And help you out of all your misery . On Jesus Christ let all your hope's depend , And he will prove your Saviour in the end , From pains and sorrows he will set you free , With Saints and Angels you shall happy be . This momentary life is little worth , That nothing else but misery brings forth : Oh who would praise so vain a thing as this , To be deprived of eternal Bliss . With contrite hearts upon our Saviour call , For doubtless he hath Love in store for all ; And certainly forever will be kind , To those that he true penitents does find . All you that to my Song now lend and ear , Pray bear in mind the words that you do hear ; Your Sins repent , to God for mercy pray , And be prepared for the Trybunal Day . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate 