The Wanton wife of Bath . The Tune is , Flying Fame . I N Both a wanton Wife did dwell , as Caucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days in many a found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her soul at last at Heavens gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , who knocketh there ? quoth he , I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art [ a ] sinner [ , ] Adam said , and her [ e ] no place shall have , Alas for you good Sir , she said , now [ gip ] you doting knave ; I will come in , in spite she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou were the causer of our woe , our pain and misery . And first broke Gods commandments [ ? ] When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to Hell , Thou folse deceiver , why said she , thou mayest be there full well ; For thou deceived'st thy father dear , and thine own brother too : Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straight , Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , on them two Bastards god , And thus most tauntingly she chaste against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes ? Alas fine minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so , King David hearing of the same , he to the Gate did go , Quod David who knocks there so loud ? and makes all this strife ; [ ? ] A Nd when thou causedst thy servants in battle to be slave , Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so fain . The Woman's mad said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King , Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives at once , for whom thou didst provide For all this three hundred Whores , thou didst maintain beside ; And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship stocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee too , in breeding of young bones . Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not have ventured , And therefore I do marvel much how thou this place have entered . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a scold as this : Thou whoreson runaway , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas , women's tongues , of Aspen-leaves are made , Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true , that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate : Quoth she , good woman you must think upon your former state : No sinner enters in this place , quoth Marry M agdalen , then 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again . You for your honesty , quoth she should once been stoned to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the Earth , It was not your occuprtion , you are become Divine , I hope my Soul in Christs passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle Paul , unto his Wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins way , thou here shalt be denied : Remember Paul what thou hast done , although a lewd desire , How thou didst persecute Gods Church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he hies , Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . P eater , said she , content thy self , for mercy may be wone , I never did deny my Christ , as thou thy self hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with Heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave , quoth he , thou hast refused , My proffer , grace , and mercy both , and much my name abused . Soar have I sinned , Oh Lord , she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering Sheep into thy Flock again . O Lord my God I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my commandments says Christ were known to thee , But of the same in any wise , not yet one word did you . I grant the same , Oh Lord quoth she , most lewdly did I live , But yet the loving Father did his Prodigal Son forgive . So I forgive thy soul he said , through thy repenting cry , Come therefore enter into my joy , I will not thee deny . FINIS . Printed for [ J. Clarke , ] W Thackeray and T. [ Passenger ] The Wanton wife of Bath . The Tune is , Flying Fame . I N Both a wanton Wife did dwell , as Caucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days in many a found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her soul at last at Heavens gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , who knocketh there ? quoth he , I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art [ a ] sinner [ , ] Adam said , and her [ e ] no place shall have , Alas for you good Sir , she said , now [ gip ] you doting knave ; I will come in , in spite she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou were the causer of our woe , our pain and misery . And first broke Gods commandments [ ? ] When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to Hell , Thou folse deceiver , why said she , thou mayest be there full well ; For thou deceived'st thy father dear , and thine own brother too : Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straight , Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , on them two Bastards god , And thus most tauntingly she chaste against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes ? Alas fine minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so , King David hearing of the same , he to the Gate did go , Quod David who knocks there so loud ? and makes all this strife ; [ ? ] A Nd when thou causedst thy servants in battle to be slave , Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so fain . The Woman's mad said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King , Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives at once , for whom thou didst provide For all this three hundred Whores , thou didst maintain beside ; And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship stocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee too , in breeding of young bones . Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not have ventured , And therefore I do marvel much how thou this place have entered . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a scold as this : Thou whoreson runaway , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas , women's tongues , of Aspen-leaves are made , Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true , that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate : Quoth she , good woman you must think upon your former state : No sinner enters in this place , quoth Marry M agdalen , then 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again . You for your honesty , quoth she should once been stoned to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the Earth , It was not your occuprtion , you are become Divine , I hope my Soul in Christs passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle Paul , unto his Wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins way , thou here shalt be denied : Remember Paul what thou hast done , although a lewd desire , How thou didst persecute Gods Church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he hies , Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . P eater , said she , content thy self , for mercy may be wone , I never did deny my Christ , as thou thy self hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with Heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave , quoth he , thou hast refused , My proffer , grace , and mercy both , and much my name abused . Soar have I sinned , Oh Lord , she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering Sheep into thy Flock again . O Lord my God I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my commandments says Christ were known to thee , But of the same in any wise , not yet one word did you . I grant the same , Oh Lord quoth she , most lewdly did I live , But yet the loving Father did his Prodigal Son forgive . So I forgive thy soul he said , through thy repenting cry , Come therefore enter into my joy , I will not thee deny . FINIS . Printed for [ J. Clarke , ] W Thackeray and T. [ Passenger ] 