Huberts Ghost . Or , and excellent Spiritual Dialogue between him and Death a little before his departure , very comfortable for all Christians to hear or read , a Ditty well known in the North . The Tune is , Bases Carrier . Hubert . W Hat Serpent is this That at me does hiss And about my bed thus hath been ? whose Beauty is gone . all but bore skin and bone , Such Anatomy seldom was seen ; tell me what thou art , ever hence thou depart , Thy power , thy vigour and force , Death . Death is my name , from Eden I came , And I purpose to make the a corpse Hub . If thou be death , There's no joy in my breath Thou art welcome unto my dear , I see no such thing , that thou canst have a sting , To affright any creature here ; For nature does show , That my life I do owe , Which once apprehended must be ; It's a bubble and a blast , Which long time cannot last , Then thy Dart is no danger to me . Death . Yet man for thy since , Thou hast lived long in , Thy flesh will be fearful to die ; Knowing that so soon , To account thou shalt come , For all thy offences so high . Then call in thy friends , For thy time it now ends , Thy will in plain writing indorce , Nay tremble not so , From the World thou must go . For I will quickly make thee a corpse Hub . Grim Hag of hell , Thy errand soon tell , As seems thee best to do : Thou art fearful to fools , That start at thy tools , Being loath from this World to go But come never so soon , At night , morning , or noon , Long time I have waited for thee : And when I shall hear Thee hum in mine ear , Thy dart is no danger to me . Death . HEzekiah with tears , a term of fifteen years And no longer from me was he fenced , By my Master divine , Yet at the end of time , His suit was unto me commenced . But now thou must hence , there can be no pretence , Thou must leave earthly pleasures perforce Then tremble not so , From the World thou must go , For I come to make thee a corpse . Hub . This life not one minute , Seek I to live in it , My time is quite spent and gone : In haste I have spent , My Span that was lent , For reprieve I petition to none , If my merciful God , Will withhold his sharp Rod , And not my offences now see , Then welcome sweet death , Sith thou comest for my breath , For thy dart is no danger to me . Death . Alas filthy Wreth , What sighs shouldst thou fetch ? what groans from a penitent heart ? If thou well examine , What office I am in And how soon with me thou must part , If thou here do neglect , On thy sins to reflect , Afterwards thou shalt find no remorse Then while time does last , Think upon thy life past , For I come to make the a corpse . Hub . O death thou sayest right , Man is a sad plighted , That makes not his reckoning here For after thy dart , Hath once pierced the heart , There in vain will Peccavi appear ; Therefore I resolved , Ever my life dissolved , If that I fo much favoured may be , My conscience to scan , Like a penitent man , Then sweet death thou art welcome to me . Death In thy youthful time , When thou wast in thy prime , Thou rejectest my Mistress sweet grace And now at the last , When thy darts almost past , Thou dost think of thy desolate case : as his mercy is much , So his judgement is such , That unless thou adjoin all thy force , To unfeigned penitence , For thy former offence , To thy woe I shall make thee a corpse . Hub . Away frightful Ghost , a terror to most , Why seekest thou my mind to dismay I hope what is done , That the true Virgins Son , with his blood hath clean washed away He will at my lives loss Nail my since to his cross , That no more they remembered shall be And by his wounds five , my sick soul shall revive , Then death thou art welcome to me . Death . O Man then prepare , Thy self with great care , Thou hast no long time here to stay , Thy Glass now does stand , At the last corn of Sand , And therefore it's high time to pray , My message is done , And I needs must be gone , Against me it's in vain to use force , Here I waiting stand , With my dart in my hand , I am ready to make thee a corpse . Hub . Then farewell frail earth , For in my second birth , All hope's of my heart does abide , In him is my trust Who from the earth and dust , On the cross suffered pains till he died Welcome death my good friend , Thou art welcome to make and end Of my trouble , and set my Soul free Thy office perform , For my life I will arm , That thy dart shall no hurt bring to me Printed for J. wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Huberts Ghost . Or , and excellent Spiritual Dialogue between him and Death a little before his departure , very comfortable for all Christians to hear or read , a Ditty well known in the North . The Tune is , Bases Carrier . Hubert . W Hat Serpent is this That at me does hiss And about my bed thus hath been ? whose Beauty is gone . all but bore skin and bone , Such Anatomy seldom was seen ; tell me what thou art , ever hence thou depart , Thy power , thy vigour and force , Death . Death is my name , from Eden I came , And I purpose to make the a corpse Hub . If thou be death , There's no joy in my breath Thou art welcome unto my dear , I see no such thing , that thou canst have a sting , To affright any creature here ; For nature does show , That my life I do owe , Which once apprehended must be ; It's a bubble and a blast , Which long time cannot last , Then thy Dart is no danger to me . Death . Yet man for thy since , Thou hast lived long in , Thy flesh will be fearful to die ; Knowing that so soon , To account thou shalt come , For all thy offences so high . Then call in thy friends , For thy time it now ends , Thy will in plain writing indorce , Nay tremble not so , From the World thou must go . For I will quickly make thee a corpse Hub . Grim Hag of hell , Thy errand soon tell , As seems thee best to do : Thou art fearful to fools , That start at thy tools , Being loath from this World to go But come never so soon , At night , morning , or noon , Long time I have waited for thee : And when I shall hear Thee hum in mine ear , Thy dart is no danger to me . Death . HEzekiah with tears , a term of fifteen years And no longer from me was he fenced , By my Master divine , Yet at the end of time , His suit was unto me commenced . But now thou must hence , there can be no pretence , Thou must leave earthly pleasures perforce Then tremble not so , From the World thou must go , For I come to make thee a corpse . Hub . This life not one minute , Seek I to live in it , My time is quite spent and gone : In haste I have spent , My Span that was lent , For reprieve I petition to none , If my merciful God , Will withhold his sharp Rod , And not my offences now see , Then welcome sweet death , Sith thou comest for my breath , For thy dart is no danger to me . Death . Alas filthy Wreth , What sighs shouldst thou fetch ? what groans from a penitent heart ? If thou well examine , What office I am in And how soon with me thou must part , If thou here do neglect , On thy sins to reflect , Afterwards thou shalt find no remorse Then while time does last , Think upon thy life past , For I come to make the a corpse . Hub . O death thou sayest right , Man is a sad plighted , That makes not his reckoning here For after thy dart , Hath once pierced the heart , There in vain will Peccavi appear ; Therefore I resolved , Ever my life dissolved , If that I fo much favoured may be , My conscience to scan , Like a penitent man , Then sweet death thou art welcome to me . Death In thy youthful time , When thou wast in thy prime , Thou rejectest my Mistress sweet grace And now at the last , When thy darts almost past , Thou dost think of thy desolate case : as his mercy is much , So his judgement is such , That unless thou adjoin all thy force , To unfeigned penitence , For thy former offence , To thy woe I shall make thee a corpse . Hub . Away frightful Ghost , a terror to most , Why seekest thou my mind to dismay I hope what is done , That the true Virgins Son , with his blood hath clean washed away He will at my lives loss Nail my since to his cross , That no more they remembered shall be And by his wounds five , my sick soul shall revive , Then death thou art welcome to me . Death . O Man then prepare , Thy self with great care , Thou hast no long time here to stay , Thy Glass now does stand , At the last corn of Sand , And therefore it's high time to pray , My message is done , And I needs must be gone , Against me it's in vain to use force , Here I waiting stand , With my dart in my hand , I am ready to make thee a corpse . Hub . Then farewell frail earth , For in my second birth , All hope's of my heart does abide , In him is my trust Who from the earth and dust , On the cross suffered pains till he died Welcome death my good friend , Thou art welcome to make and end Of my trouble , and set my Soul free Thy office perform , For my life I will arm , That thy dart shall no hurt bring to me Printed for J. wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 