The Dying men good Counsel to his Children and F riends . Being a fit pattern for Old and Young , Rich and Poor , Bound and Free to take example by the same , that they may live and honest sober Godly life in this world ; that they may enjoy life everlasting in the World to come . To the Tune of in Summer time . G Ood people all listen a while & amp ; give ear unto my song , Let not vain thoughts your hearts beguile nor be led by no evil tongue . All you that stands about my bed and here is come my death to view , Think on my words when I am dead and what I speak you'll find them true . First to my Children I will speak which in this world I now must leave , See that a godly course you take And look no man you do deceive , Help for to Right the fatherless the hungry see you cloth and feed , Wrong not a widow in distress thou knowest not but thou mayest come to need . What thou dost give , give with a good will rejoice not at thy brother's fallen , To make neighbours friends pray use your skill a day will come will pay thee all . Hate not a man though he be poor let not pride thy heart overthrow Relieve those that ask at thy door thou knowest not what thou may come to . F Or Gold and silver is but dross and Goods has wings to fly away , But count that same a greater loss that brings thy soul unto decay . Hate drunkenness that deadly since which will bring thee to poverty , A Harlots door doubt enter in be sure no good will come thereby . Likewise my daughters which I have and to other maidens I will speak , That when I am laid within my Grave my counsel they much on may make . O mind your Bibles more then pride for in this world thou have not long to stay And God above will be your guide if you his holy word obey . Dress you your selves in civil sort be not puffed up with every wind . Do not regard the world's report and thou Reward in Heaven shalt find . For all these earthly joys are vanity therefore mark well what I shall say , Though thou dost climb never so high yet still thou art but dust and clay . Man's life you see is like a span or like the flowers i'th field do grow , Here to day , to morrow is gone all this for certain truth we know . Then who would be proud of what they have when death does come thou must away , The Rich the poor must go to'th Grave for time and Tide for none will stay . Rejoice Oh young man in thy youth yet count thy mirth but vanity , And know this for certain truth that one day thou and all must die . Do not we see before our eyes how sudden some are snatched away , Death at our doors he knocks and cries prepare you for your dying day . Yet some on their means do set such love their hearts so hardened are withal , They think not on that God above though he himself to them does call . But let me persuade all such as those with speed a new life to begin , For when that death thine eyes do close thouled find what danger thou art in . Therefore while thou hast time and space make use of it while you are here , Then welcome death come when thou wilt of it thou needs not stand in fear . For after death comes you can't repent and for every idle word you say , And how thy precious time thou'st spent thou must give account at the latter day . What pleasure man here canst thou find although thou sports thy time away , Thy glass is running prithee mind thy soul does both waste and decay . Thus Friends and Neighbours you da hear what a righteous man he does come too , TO [ h ] en to serve the Lord let it be your care and so I bid you all adieu . And then departed this old man in love in happiness and peace , No doubt his soul to heaven is gone where Angels sing and never cease All you that now have herd these Lines & amp ; mark these words which here is penned , I pray you bear them in your mind that you may make a Godly End. London Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . The Dying men good Counsel to his Children and F riends . Being a fit pattern for Old and Young , Rich and Poor , Bound and Free to take example by the same , that they may live and honest sober Godly life in this world ; that they may enjoy life everlasting in the World to come . To the Tune of in Summer time . G Ood people all listen a while & amp ; give ear unto my song , Let not vain thoughts your hearts beguile nor be led by no evil tongue . All you that stands about my bed and here is come my death to view , Think on my words when I am dead and what I speak you'll find them true . First to my Children I will speak which in this world I now must leave , See that a godly course you take And look no man you do deceive , Help for to Right the fatherless the hungry see you cloth and feed , Wrong not a widow in distress thou knowest not but thou mayest come to need . What thou dost give , give with a good will rejoice not at thy brother's fallen , To make neighbours friends pray use your skill a day will come will pay thee all . Hate not a man though he be poor let not pride thy heart overthrow Relieve those that ask at thy door thou knowest not what thou may come to . F Or Gold and silver is but dross and Goods has wings to fly away , But count that same a greater loss that brings thy soul unto decay . Hate drunkenness that deadly since which will bring thee to poverty , A Harlots door doubt enter in be sure no good will come thereby . Likewise my daughters which I have and to other maidens I will speak , That when I am laid within my Grave my counsel they much on may make . O mind your Bibles more then pride for in this world thou have not long to stay And God above will be your guide if you his holy word obey . Dress you your selves in civil sort be not puffed up with every wind . Do not regard the world's report and thou Reward in Heaven shalt find . For all these earthly joys are vanity therefore mark well what I shall say , Though thou dost climb never so high yet still thou art but dust and clay . Man's life you see is like a span or like the flowers i'th field do grow , Here to day , to morrow is gone all this for certain truth we know . Then who would be proud of what they have when death does come thou must away , The Rich the poor must go to'th Grave for time and Tide for none will stay . Rejoice Oh young man in thy youth yet count thy mirth but vanity , And know this for certain truth that one day thou and all must die . Do not we see before our eyes how sudden some are snatched away , Death at our doors he knocks and cries prepare you for your dying day . Yet some on their means do set such love their hearts so hardened are withal , They think not on that God above though he himself to them does call . But let me persuade all such as those with speed a new life to begin , For when that death thine eyes do close thouled find what danger thou art in . Therefore while thou hast time and space make use of it while you are here , Then welcome death come when thou wilt of it thou needs not stand in fear . For after death comes you can't repent and for every idle word you say , And how thy precious time thou'st spent thou must give account at the latter day . What pleasure man here canst thou find although thou sports thy time away , Thy glass is running prithee mind thy soul does both waste and decay . Thus Friends and Neighbours you da hear what a righteous man he does come too , TO [ h ] en to serve the Lord let it be your care and so I bid you all adieu . And then departed this old man in love in happiness and peace , No doubt his soul to heaven is gone where Angels sing and never cease All you that now have herd these Lines & amp ; mark these words which here is penned , I pray you bear them in your mind that you may make a Godly End. London Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 