A Lesson for all true Christians . Which being well observed by old and young , And practised with hand , and heart , and tongue : Great comfort in it at the last you'll find , Then mark it well , and bear it in y [ oh ] ur mind . Tune of , The Letter for a Christian Family . By J . C . A Ll you whose minds be high & amp ; heavenly bent , Observe Gods laws , and strive for to repent ; Bear thou in mind these lines I shall unfold , And prize them better far then pearl or gold . B Ear thou in mind that Christ died for thy since Upon the Cross , thy precious soul to win ; Be frequent still in reading of his word , Which cuts down since as with a 2 edged sword . C Onsider well the bitter pains & amp ; death , Our Saviour Christ hath suffered on the earth ; Unto the Cross they nailed his hands and feet , So for our sins he shed his blood most sweet . WORSER Efer no time , but pray continually , Thy sins against the still for Vengeance cry : Pray to the Lord thy sins may be forgiven , & amp ; that thy soul may live with Christ in heaven . E Ternal God if it be thy blessed will , Comfort all those that now are sick or ill ; By Land or Sea relieve them of their pain , Restore them to their former health again . F Orbear to swear you children that are young , you parents pray correct them for their wrong And bring them up in fear to serve the Lord , For fear he scourge them with his heavy Rod . G Reat oaths in vain too many people swear , The Lord in pieces wilfully they tear : Strange imprecations they too common use , with such delights they do themselves abuse . H Owe many false reports abroad do fly , People likewise are given much to lie : Likewise dissemble so with one another , We cannot tell how for to trust our Brother . I N many places people sudden die , Others again soar sick in bed do lie ; Lord give them grace in time for to repent , And for their grievous sins for to lament . K Eep thou in mind the Judgement day will come , When thou shalt answer for what thou hast done While thou remainest here on the earth Therefore prepare thee for the hour of death . L Et not malicious thoughts possess thy breast , Nor wicked actions in thy conscience rest ; In any case do not thy Neighbour wrong , Neither by thought , word , deed , nor yet by tongue . M Any there be that follow drunkenness , & amp ; make themselves far worse then any beast , & amp ; many when that they should go to Church Do in and Alehouse or a Tavern lurch . N Or do they heed , but spend their means in vain , which should their wives & amp ; children maintain Until they have consumed their whole estate , And never repent before it be too late . O The there be likewise does rob and kill , And many a man and woman's blood do spill ; For money to maintain their grievous since , And think not on the errors they run in . P Itty it is they have no better care , But bring their souls and bodies in a snare ; Their bodies here to die in woeful shame , Their souls to suffer in eternal flame . Q Vere thou after Gods word which is so pure Also the Gospel which will still endure ; Seek thou the place whereas thy Soul may rest among the Angels whom the Lord hath blessed . R Egard not thou the since of covetousness , Seek for to right the widow and fatherless , Help to relieve those that in prison lie , Also remember man that thou must die . S Et not thy mind upon Adultery , But from the beauty of lewd women fly , We find in Scripture that this forbid , Then mind it well when as you do it read . TO Ake heed that you do not false measures u [ se ] With such deceit do not thy self abuse ; Too many use it now , the more's the pit [ y ] In every place , in Country , Town and [ City ] U Ndone are many by this false deceit , Let me advice such people , and entreat To leave it off & amp ; mark what I shall say , It'll rise against them at the Judgeme [ nt day ] W Hen thou before thy maker shalt appear , To give account , and eke thy self to cle [ are ] If well thou'st done , then happy shalt tO [ how be ] And live with Christ in joy eternally . X Ample take I pray both old and young , By those few lines that's penned in this s [ ong ] Bear it in mind I pray every one , And think on it when I am dead and gone . Y Oung-men & amp ; maidens love your parents kind Honour them still , and seek the Lord to find Oh mind your bibles more then all your pride & amp ; then be sure the Lord will be your guide . Z Jealous and faithful to each other prove , Live not in hatred , but in perfect love ; Peace is a virtue passes gold so pure , Lord grant it may among us still endure . & amp ; Now at last for to conclude and end , These lines to all true Christians I do send ; To read them over , and of them take a view , What here's penned you'll find for to be true . FINIS . Printed for J . C.W T. and TO . P . A Lesson for all true Christians . Which being well observed by old and young , And practised with hand , and heart , and tongue : Great comfort in it at the last you'll find , Then mark it well , and bear it in y [ oh ] ur mind . Tune of , The Letter for a Christian Family . By J . C . A Ll you whose minds be high & amp ; heavenly bent , Observe Gods laws , and strive for to repent ; Bear thou in mind these lines I shall unfold , And prize them better far then pearl or gold . B Ear thou in mind that Christ died for thy since Upon the Cross , thy precious soul to win ; Be frequent still in reading of his word , Which cuts down since as with a 2 edged sword . C Onsider well the bitter pains & amp ; death , Our Saviour Christ hath suffered on the earth ; Unto the Cross they nailed his hands and feet , So for our sins he shed his blood most sweet . WORSER Efer no time , but pray continually , Thy sins against the still for Vengeance cry : Pray to the Lord thy sins may be forgiven , & amp ; that thy soul may live with Christ in heaven . E Ternal God if it be thy blessed will , Comfort all those that now are sick or ill ; By Land or Sea relieve them of their pain , Restore them to their former health again . F Orbear to swear you children that are young , you parents pray correct them for their wrong And bring them up in fear to serve the Lord , For fear he scourge them with his heavy Rod . G Reat oaths in vain too many people swear , The Lord in pieces wilfully they tear : Strange imprecations they too common use , with such delights they do themselves abuse . H Owe many false reports abroad do fly , People likewise are given much to lie : Likewise dissemble so with one another , We cannot tell how for to trust our Brother . I N many places people sudden die , Others again soar sick in bed do lie ; Lord give them grace in time for to repent , And for their grievous sins for to lament . K Eep thou in mind the Judgement day will come , When thou shalt answer for what thou hast done While thou remainest here on the earth Therefore prepare thee for the hour of death . L Et not malicious thoughts possess thy breast , Nor wicked actions in thy conscience rest ; In any case do not thy Neighbour wrong , Neither by thought , word , deed , nor yet by tongue . M Any there be that follow drunkenness , & amp ; make themselves far worse then any beast , & amp ; many when that they should go to Church Do in and Alehouse or a Tavern lurch . N Or do they heed , but spend their means in vain , which should their wives & amp ; children maintain Until they have consumed their whole estate , And never repent before it be too late . O The there be likewise does rob and kill , And many a man and woman's blood do spill ; For money to maintain their grievous since , And think not on the errors they run in . P Itty it is they have no better care , But bring their souls and bodies in a snare ; Their bodies here to die in woeful shame , Their souls to suffer in eternal flame . Q Vere thou after Gods word which is so pure Also the Gospel which will still endure ; Seek thou the place whereas thy Soul may rest among the Angels whom the Lord hath blessed . R Egard not thou the since of covetousness , Seek for to right the widow and fatherless , Help to relieve those that in prison lie , Also remember man that thou must die . S Et not thy mind upon Adultery , But from the beauty of lewd women fly , We find in Scripture that this forbid , Then mind it well when as you do it read . TO Ake heed that you do not false measures u [ se ] With such deceit do not thy self abuse ; Too many use it now , the more's the pit [ y ] In every place , in Country , Town and [ City ] U Ndone are many by this false deceit , Let me advice such people , and entreat To leave it off & amp ; mark what I shall say , It'll rise against them at the Judgeme [ nt day ] W Hen thou before thy maker shalt appear , To give account , and eke thy self to cle [ are ] If well thou'st done , then happy shalt tO [ how be ] And live with Christ in joy eternally . X Ample take I pray both old and young , By those few lines that's penned in this s [ ong ] Bear it in mind I pray every one , And think on it when I am dead and gone . Y Oung-men & amp ; maidens love your parents kind Honour them still , and seek the Lord to find Oh mind your bibles more then all your pride & amp ; then be sure the Lord will be your guide . Z Jealous and faithful to each other prove , Live not in hatred , but in perfect love ; Peace is a virtue passes gold so pure , Lord grant it may among us still endure . & amp ; Now at last for to conclude and end , These lines to all true Christians I do send ; To read them over , and of them take a view , What here's penned you'll find for to be true . FINIS . Printed for J . C.W T. and TO . P . 