And Antidote of Rare Physic . No rarer thing that you can find , To Cure a Discontented mind ; A contented mind it is most rare , If you serve the Lord and stand in fear : And let no want nor poverty , Disquiet your mind , I tell to you ; For God hath all things still in store , If you have Content you need no more . The Tune is , No love like a contented mind : Or , Fancies Phoenix . This may be Printed , June 5. 1685. R.L.S. Entered according to Order . I Ndeed this world is so unjust , Men cannot one another trust ; Some are so troubled in their mind , One scarcely now a friend can find : There is such wavering every way , Makes many a Man stand at a stay : A contented mind it is most rare , If we serve the Lord and stand in fear . If a man be poor and have but small , If he be content it's the best of all ; There's some has thousands at command ; That's not contented I understand ; They pinch and spare to make it more , And grind the faces of the poor : A contented mind , etc If sickness comes count that no loss , But be content then with thy Cross ; If it be Gods will it must be so It's a blessing , pray you say not no : And remember Job in all his ways , He evermore gave God the praise : A contented mind , etc If you be cast in Prison never fear . Let not your heart and mind despair , But be content and hope the best , When God is pleased you shall be released : That man that serves the God of might . If Man do wrong him , God will do him right A contented mind it is most rare , If we serve the Lord and stand in fear . If a man have a charge of Children small , And has but little to maintain them withal , Let his Prayers be still unto the Lord , Then relief for them he will afford ; And never murmur at your want , Although sometime that things be scant : A contented mind , etc Content is a pleasant thing therefore , And especially for the Poor ; If a man be brought into distress , It will relieve him in his heaviness , And make him understand and see , What our good God can do for thee and me , A contented mind , etc What ever troubles comes or goes , Let's serve the Lord , and give him praise ; And keep our hearts both clear and found , That no evil may our conscience wound : And love all men both Rich and Poor , And be content for evermore : A contented mind , etc If Maids and youngmen be crossed in love And neither party be unkind , Let them put their trust in God above , And he will ease their troubled mind : And never pine at it I do say , Many has brought themselves unto decay : A contented mind , etc Content's the best thing we can find , If any trouble do vex your mind , It will preserve us from all evil , And expel the Poison of the Devil ; For if our hearts be whole and found , No evil thing can there abound : A contented mind , etc The man that lives without content , And hath his heart now on Riches bent , Never has enough , he'd still have more , His wicked mind runs on his store ; But the poor man that enjoys content , Is in a better way when his life is spent : A contented mind , etc Content will Cure a wounded heart , Content will never let it smart , Content it is a precious store , And he that hath it need no more ; It's a remedy for Rich Poor , And a Plaster for every wounded Soar ; Content it is so rare a thing , Great comfort to you it will bring . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilspur-street , with Newgate . And Antidote of Rare Physic . No rarer thing that you can find , To Cure a Discontented mind ; A contented mind it is most rare , If you serve the Lord and stand in fear : And let no want nor poverty , Disquiet your mind , I tell to you ; For God hath all things still in store , If you have Content you need no more . The Tune is , No love like a contented mind : Or , Fancies Phoenix . This may be Printed , June 5. 1685. R.L.S. Entered according to Order . I Ndeed this world is so unjust , Men cannot one another trust ; Some are so troubled in their mind , One scarcely now a friend can find : There is such wavering every way , Makes many a Man stand at a stay : A contented mind it is most rare , If we serve the Lord and stand in fear . If a man be poor and have but small , If he be content it's the best of all ; There's some has thousands at command ; That's not contented I understand ; They pinch and spare to make it more , And grind the faces of the poor : A contented mind , etc If sickness comes count that no loss , But be content then with thy Cross ; If it be Gods will it must be so It's a blessing , pray you say not no : And remember Job in all his ways , He evermore gave God the praise : A contented mind , etc If you be cast in Prison never fear . Let not your heart and mind despair , But be content and hope the best , When God is pleased you shall be released : That man that serves the God of might . If Man do wrong him , God will do him right A contented mind it is most rare , If we serve the Lord and stand in fear . If a man have a charge of Children small , And has but little to maintain them withal , Let his Prayers be still unto the Lord , Then relief for them he will afford ; And never murmur at your want , Although sometime that things be scant : A contented mind , etc Content is a pleasant thing therefore , And especially for the Poor ; If a man be brought into distress , It will relieve him in his heaviness , And make him understand and see , What our good God can do for thee and me , A contented mind , etc What ever troubles comes or goes , Let's serve the Lord , and give him praise ; And keep our hearts both clear and found , That no evil may our conscience wound : And love all men both Rich and Poor , And be content for evermore : A contented mind , etc If Maids and youngmen be crossed in love And neither party be unkind , Let them put their trust in God above , And he will ease their troubled mind : And never pine at it I do say , Many has brought themselves unto decay : A contented mind , etc Content's the best thing we can find , If any trouble do vex your mind , It will preserve us from all evil , And expel the Poison of the Devil ; For if our hearts be whole and found , No evil thing can there abound : A contented mind , etc The man that lives without content , And hath his heart now on Riches bent , Never has enough , he'd still have more , His wicked mind runs on his store ; But the poor man that enjoys content , Is in a better way when his life is spent : A contented mind , etc Content will Cure a wounded heart , Content will never let it smart , Content it is a precious store , And he that hath it need no more ; It's a remedy for Rich Poor , And a Plaster for every wounded Soar ; Content it is so rare a thing , Great comfort to you it will bring . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilspur-street , with Newgate . 