A true sense of Sorrow : OR THE Poor Yorkshire - Man protected by Providence , in the greatest time of trouble . When Grief and Care , almost Despair , does seem to overthrow ; Men in Distress and heaviness , the Lord can kindness show . To the Tune of , Rich Merchant-Man . TO Here was a poor Yorkshire Man , that was in great distress , Most piteously made his complaint with grief and heaviness . For scarcity and want , he was oppressed soar , He could not find his Children bred , he was so very poor . And his poor Wife , God wot , was lately brought to bed , With two poor Infants at her Breast , and had no Drink nor Bred . A woeful Lying-in , was this the Lord does know , God keep every Woman , from knowing of such woe . O husband dear she said , for want of Food I die , Some succour do for me provide , to help my misery . The Man with many a Tear , most mournfully replied , I have no money to buy us Bred , and then his Children cried . They came about him round , and on his Clothes they hung And sadly made their complaint , their little hands they wrung . Do not cry my Babes , he said , I will go seek some food , He took his Gun then in his hand , and going to the Wood . And in the way as he went , he met Farmers two or three , And begged for Christ his sake , to help his Misery . Pray lend me the poor Man said , one loaf of Barley Bred , One pint of milk for my poor Wife , in Childbed almost dead . Think on my mighty need , to lend me have no doubt , I have no money for to pay , but I will work it out . But they in snappish sort , did one by one reply , We have already lent you more , then we can well come by . this struck him to the Heart , as cold as any stone , And straight from them he did depart , with many a sighs and groan . And at the length behold , a tall man he did meet , And coalblack was his Garments all , from Head unto the Feet . Thou blessed man said he , Why mourneth thou so soar , What is the cause you make such moan , then tell me , and sighs no more . Alas ! good Sir , he said , this thing for truth I know , That Job was just , yet never man endured greater Woe . The man he pulled out straight , a handful of money bright , Bid him go and relieve his Wife and his Children that night . Cause thou so faithful be , and righteous do remain , You shall be fed as Daniel was , within the Lyons Den . If truth in thee abide , thou shalt not want for food , Thou shalt be fed as Elias was , that rambled in the Wood . O blessed Lord , said the poor man , what a happy man am I , To have some food to give my Babes , to help their misery . I hope the Lord will bless , this honest Gentleman , For every penny that he gave me , the Lord may send him ten . The Lord have herd his prayer , and him a plenty send , But the Farmers both are very poor , that would him nothing lend . See what the Lord will do , with men that are so just , The Lord will always stand his Friend , if that you in him trust . This may be Printed . R.P. Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . A true sense of Sorrow : OR THE Poor Yorkshire - Man protected by Providence , in the greatest time of trouble . When Grief and Care , almost Despair , does seem to overthrow ; Men in Distress and heaviness , the Lord can kindness show . To the Tune of , Rich Merchant-Man . TO Here was a poor Yorkshire Man , that was in great distress , Most piteously made his complaint with grief and heaviness . For scarcity and want , he was oppressed soar , He could not find his Children bred , he was so very poor . And his poor Wife , God wot , was lately brought to bed , With two poor Infants at her Breast , and had no Drink nor Bred . A woeful Lying-in , was this the Lord does know , God keep every Woman , from knowing of such woe . O husband dear she said , for want of Food I die , Some succour do for me provide , to help my misery . The Man with many a Tear , most mournfully replied , I have no money to buy us Bred , and then his Children cried . They came about him round , and on his Clothes they hung And sadly made their complaint , their little hands they wrung . Do not cry my Babes , he said , I will go seek some food , He took his Gun then in his hand , and going to the Wood . And in the way as he went , he met Farmers two or three , And begged for Christ his sake , to help his Misery . Pray lend me the poor Man said , one loaf of Barley Bred , One pint of milk for my poor Wife , in Childbed almost dead . Think on my mighty need , to lend me have no doubt , I have no money for to pay , but I will work it out . But they in snappish sort , did one by one reply , We have already lent you more , then we can well come by . this struck him to the Heart , as cold as any stone , And straight from them he did depart , with many a sighs and groan . And at the length behold , a tall man he did meet , And coalblack was his Garments all , from Head unto the Feet . Thou blessed man said he , Why mourneth thou so soar , What is the cause you make such moan , then tell me , and sighs no more . Alas ! good Sir , he said , this thing for truth I know , That Job was just , yet never man endured greater Woe . The man he pulled out straight , a handful of money bright , Bid him go and relieve his Wife and his Children that night . Cause thou so faithful be , and righteous do remain , You shall be fed as Daniel was , within the Lyons Den . If truth in thee abide , thou shalt not want for food , Thou shalt be fed as Elias was , that rambled in the Wood . O blessed Lord , said the poor man , what a happy man am I , To have some food to give my Babes , to help their misery . I hope the Lord will bless , this honest Gentleman , For every penny that he gave me , the Lord may send him ten . The Lord have herd his prayer , and him a plenty send , But the Farmers both are very poor , that would him nothing lend . See what the Lord will do , with men that are so just , The Lord will always stand his Friend , if that you in him trust . This may be Printed . R.P. Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 