The Punished Atheist : Or , The Miserable End of a North Country Gentleman , who , to obtain his lewd Desires on a Lady , his own Sister , denied that there was ei - ther Heaven or Hell , GOD , or Devil ; when at the same time of his utter - king those Blasphemous Expressions , he was made a sad Example of God's Ju - stice . Tune , Jealous Lover . Licensed according to Order . A N Atheist lived in the North , Who underwent God's heavy Wrath , Through the blasphemous Words he spoke , Which did his Maker much provoke . He having left his lawful Wife , Led such a lewd and wicked Life , That he was clearly void of fear , The like of him you never did hear . His Sister was a Lady fair , Whole Beauty shined beyond compare , A pious Woman , eke was she , And wedded to a high degree . At length he placed his chief delight , In his fair Sister's Beauty bright , And likewise was resolved to try , If she his will would satisfy . To her he went upon a day , And found her in the Garden gay , Where walking with her all alone , His base Desires he made known . He being then with Lust inflamed , It seems , he waned the least ashamed . To tempt this fare and virtuous Bride ; But Christian like , she thus replied , You strike me with astonishment , The Lord forbid I should consent , To such a Hellish crying since , Which none but Sodom wallowed in . Dear Brother , hear me what I say , Consider with yourself , I pray , Can you endure the pains of Hell ? Or with eternal Torments dwell ? For that you may expect indeed , If true Repentance now with speed , Does not God's gracious Pardon gain . He scoffed at that with proud disdain , Said he , [ My ] loving Sister dear , No God or Devil need you fear , For there is no such thing I'm sure , Nor any Torments to endure : Though you are pleased to relate , A Story here of Torments great , And of a latter Judgement day , I'ld not believe what any say . I know they are but fancies then , Writ by the wiser sort of Men , To keep poor silly Souls in awe ; I'll never be governed by that law . Nay , further still , he did reply , Do not the least my suit deny , And then if any Hell there be , The Flames I will endure for thee . These Words did so provoke the Lord , TO [ h ] at straight he sent him his reward For while his Sister from him turned , A sulferous Fire round him burned , The Fire flamed like Brimstone blew , And straight above his Knees it hew , All round him then on e'ry side ; Then he with bitter Howlings cried , Dear Sister , now I wish in vain , That I had not been so profain , As to deny there was a God , I feel this day his burning Rrod . The Lady then was in a fright , To see this dreadful dismal sighed , No time at all she then delayed , But ran immediately for aid . With staves they came to pull him forth , But low his hands and fingers both Was so benumbed and swelled withal , He could not help himself at all . He fillled the skies with groans and cries , Till his blasphemous Tongue and Eyes , With anguish dropped out of his Head , At length the Wretch fell down for dead The Fire squenched when as he fell , His Carcase sent forth such a smell , That not one could the place endure ; Oh this was Heaven's Vengeance sure . When sinful Mortals dare deny , The being of a Deity They may expect that in the end [ , ] God will [ His ] fearful Vengeance send . Let all Blasphemers far and near , That Hath this sad Relation hear , Repent , and bear these things in mind , So may thy Grace and Mercy find . Printed for J. Blare , on London-bridgeThe Punished Atheist : Or , The Miserable End of a North Country Gentleman , who , to obtain his lewd Desires on a Lady , his own Sister , denied that there was ei - ther Heaven or Hell , GOD , or Devil ; when at the same time of his utter - king those Blasphemous Expressions , he was made a sad Example of God's Ju - stice . Tune , Jealous Lover . Licensed according to Order . A N Atheist lived in the North , Who underwent God's heavy Wrath , Through the blasphemous Words he spoke , Which did his Maker much provoke . He having left his lawful Wife , Led such a lewd and wicked Life , That he was clearly void of fear , The like of him you never did hear . His Sister was a Lady fair , Whole Beauty shined beyond compare , A pious Woman , eke was she , And wedded to a high degree . At length he placed his chief delight , In his fair Sister's Beauty bright , And likewise was resolved to try , If she his will would satisfy . To her he went upon a day , And found her in the Garden gay , Where walking with her all alone , His base Desires he made known . He being then with Lust inflamed , It seems , he waned the least ashamed . To tempt this fare and virtuous Bride ; But Christian like , she thus replied , You strike me with astonishment , The Lord forbid I should consent , To such a Hellish crying since , Which none but Sodom wallowed in . Dear Brother , hear me what I say , Consider with yourself , I pray , Can you endure the pains of Hell ? Or with eternal Torments dwell ? For that you may expect indeed , If true Repentance now with speed , Does not God's gracious Pardon gain . He scoffed at that with proud disdain , Said he , [ My ] loving Sister dear , No God or Devil need you fear , For there is no such thing I'm sure , Nor any Torments to endure : Though you are pleased to relate , A Story here of Torments great , And of a latter Judgement day , I'ld not believe what any say . I know they are but fancies then , Writ by the wiser sort of Men , To keep poor silly Souls in awe ; I'll never be governed by that law . Nay , further still , he did reply , Do not the least my suit deny , And then if any Hell there be , The Flames I will endure for thee . These Words did so provoke the Lord , TO [ h ] at straight he sent him his reward For while his Sister from him turned , A sulferous Fire round him burned , The Fire flamed like Brimstone blew , And straight above his Knees it hew , All round him then on e'ry side ; Then he with bitter Howlings cried , Dear Sister , now I wish in vain , That I had not been so profain , As to deny there was a God , I feel this day his burning Rrod . The Lady then was in a fright , To see this dreadful dismal sighed , No time at all she then delayed , But ran immediately for aid . With staves they came to pull him forth , But low his hands and fingers both Was so benumbed and swelled withal , He could not help himself at all . He fillled the skies with groans and cries , Till his blasphemous Tongue and Eyes , With anguish dropped out of his Head , At length the Wretch fell down for dead The Fire squenched when as he fell , His Carcase sent forth such a smell , That not one could the place endure ; Oh this was Heaven's Vengeance sure . When sinful Mortals dare deny , The being of a Deity They may expect that in the end [ , ] God will [ His ] fearful Vengeance send . Let all Blasphemers far and near , That Hath this sad Relation hear , Repent , and bear these things in mind , So may thy Grace and Mercy find . Printed for J. Blare , on London-bridge 