The Kentish MIRACLE : OR , A Strange and Miraculous Work of Gods Providence , showed to a poor distressed Widow , and her Seven Fatherless Children ; who lived by a Burned Sixpen - ny Loaf of Bred , and a little Water , for above Seven Weeks , in the Wild of Kent , to the Praise and Glory of Almighty God . To the Tune of , A Rich Merchant Man . Entered according to Order . TO ache comfort Christians all , for never shall you see The faithful forsaken quite , and left in misery . Who lives and loves to bear the truth in each degree , The story of a Widows plaint , let them give ear to me . Who by this Widow here , sufficient have been tried , The which was left both poor and bore when as her husband died . And seven young Children small , upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred God knows she lays in pawn . But when the appointed time , as time consumeth all , Oh then she knew not how to feed her hungry Children small . M Ost merciful God , said she , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy servant here , with famishing death to die . Thou that the Ravens did send Elias for to feed , When that he was in Wilderness , in extreme want and need , And Reigned Bred from Heaven old Israel to preserve ; And wouldst not in the Lyons den let Daniel pine and starve . I know my Lord , she said , thou didst five thousand feed , With five small barley Loaves , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough their hunger to sustain , And afterwards twelve baskets full of scraps did still remain . I know my Lord , she said , thou art so mighty still , And therefore every thing be done according to thy will . Her Prayers ended thus , her Children cried straightway , Oh Mother dear give us some bred , we have eat none to day . Give me some bred , said one , give me some bred , said another , And thus the silly Infants flock , about their careful Mother . The good Soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my lambs , said she , you shall have bred your fill . I will to Market go , let Corn be cheap or dear , I'll fell my Coat to buy some Corn if you'll be quiet here . The Children smiled at this , content they did remain , Good Mother , every one could say , come quickly home again . Three Miles this Woman went unto the Market town , And for five shilling she did fell her Coat and Russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies , But there alas her purse was cut , ever any Corn she buys . She cryeth out , God knows , she weeps and makes great moan To every one that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see , here in her woeful case , Her husbands brother he was one that sold Corn in that place . This woeful woman then , did him desire and pray , To trust her with one sack of corn , till the next Market-day . But he denies her flat , and thus he tells her plain , I shall not have to serve my turn , till Corn do come again . More heed you might have took , unto your purse said he , And not to lose your money here , so found and foolishly . This dogged answer cut this poor soul to the heart , Especially when she did think upon her Infants smart . Who sits and strives at home , poor souls , but all in vain which of them should the biggest piece of bred and butter gain . But far alas , they were from butter , bred , or cheese , Or any thing to comfort them , that their poor Mother sees . But now behold Gods work , as homeward she returned , A Bakers boy gave her a Loaf which was in baking burned . She gave God thanks for that , and joyful in her hand , She bears the bred home to her babes which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look , And said , we will to supper go , when you have said your book . Mean time she makes a Fire , and apples therein throws , The widow & amp ; her seven Children , to Supper sweetly goes . The Apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly , she does the Apple spread . Instead of Drink , she had a cup of Water clear , And every Child rejoiced much , and said here is good cheer . Behold when they had Supped , for God their Food did bless , When they had supped & amp ; were sufficed , their Loaf was never the less . For seven weeks space together , as storys plainly spread , The widow and her seven children by this one Loaf was fed . The Cutpurse Man , I say , he broke his neck in Kent , Ever he of this poor widows money one single penny had spent . And yet behold and see , her husbands churlish brother , That would not trust a peck of corn her children for to succour . And straightway after this , his corn was washed away , All by a mighty Flood that came , before the break of day . The Gentlemen , and such , that did this wonder see , Unto this widow gave such gifts , that never more wanted she . And now good people all , you here may plainly see , Gods servants are not forsaken quite Gods mercies is to them free . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilspur-Street , without Newgate . The Kentish MIRACLE : OR , A Strange and Miraculous Work of Gods Providence , showed to a poor distressed Widow , and her Seven Fatherless Children ; who lived by a Burned Sixpen - ny Loaf of Bred , and a little Water , for above Seven Weeks , in the Wild of Kent , to the Praise and Glory of Almighty God . To the Tune of , A Rich Merchant Man . Entered according to Order . TO ache comfort Christians all , for never shall you see The faithful forsaken quite , and left in misery . Who lives and loves to bear the truth in each degree , The story of a Widows plaint , let them give ear to me . Who by this Widow here , sufficient have been tried , The which was left both poor and bore when as her husband died . And seven young Children small , upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred God knows she lays in pawn . But when the appointed time , as time consumeth all , Oh then she knew not how to feed her hungry Children small . M Ost merciful God , said she , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy servant here , with famishing death to die . Thou that the Ravens did send Elias for to feed , When that he was in Wilderness , in extreme want and need , And Reigned Bred from Heaven old Israel to preserve ; And wouldst not in the Lyons den let Daniel pine and starve . I know my Lord , she said , thou didst five thousand feed , With five small barley Loaves , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough their hunger to sustain , And afterwards twelve baskets full of scraps did still remain . I know my Lord , she said , thou art so mighty still , And therefore every thing be done according to thy will . Her Prayers ended thus , her Children cried straightway , Oh Mother dear give us some bred , we have eat none to day . Give me some bred , said one , give me some bred , said another , And thus the silly Infants flock , about their careful Mother . The good Soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my lambs , said she , you shall have bred your fill . I will to Market go , let Corn be cheap or dear , I'll fell my Coat to buy some Corn if you'll be quiet here . The Children smiled at this , content they did remain , Good Mother , every one could say , come quickly home again . Three Miles this Woman went unto the Market town , And for five shilling she did fell her Coat and Russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies , But there alas her purse was cut , ever any Corn she buys . She cryeth out , God knows , she weeps and makes great moan To every one that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see , here in her woeful case , Her husbands brother he was one that sold Corn in that place . This woeful woman then , did him desire and pray , To trust her with one sack of corn , till the next Market-day . But he denies her flat , and thus he tells her plain , I shall not have to serve my turn , till Corn do come again . More heed you might have took , unto your purse said he , And not to lose your money here , so found and foolishly . This dogged answer cut this poor soul to the heart , Especially when she did think upon her Infants smart . Who sits and strives at home , poor souls , but all in vain which of them should the biggest piece of bred and butter gain . But far alas , they were from butter , bred , or cheese , Or any thing to comfort them , that their poor Mother sees . But now behold Gods work , as homeward she returned , A Bakers boy gave her a Loaf which was in baking burned . She gave God thanks for that , and joyful in her hand , She bears the bred home to her babes which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look , And said , we will to supper go , when you have said your book . Mean time she makes a Fire , and apples therein throws , The widow & amp ; her seven Children , to Supper sweetly goes . The Apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly , she does the Apple spread . Instead of Drink , she had a cup of Water clear , And every Child rejoiced much , and said here is good cheer . Behold when they had Supped , for God their Food did bless , When they had supped & amp ; were sufficed , their Loaf was never the less . For seven weeks space together , as storys plainly spread , The widow and her seven children by this one Loaf was fed . The Cutpurse Man , I say , he broke his neck in Kent , Ever he of this poor widows money one single penny had spent . And yet behold and see , her husbands churlish brother , That would not trust a peck of corn her children for to succour . And straightway after this , his corn was washed away , All by a mighty Flood that came , before the break of day . The Gentlemen , and such , that did this wonder see , Unto this widow gave such gifts , that never more wanted she . And now good people all , you here may plainly see , Gods servants are not forsaken quite Gods mercies is to them free . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilspur-Street , without Newgate . 