A Wondered Prophesy , Declared by Christian James a Maid of twenty years of age ( late Daughter to Daniel James ) who was born and bred near the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwal , who departed this life upon the 8th . of March . With a true relation of her Behaviour , both in her life time and at the hour of her death , worthy to be had in perpetual me - mory . To the Tune of , In Summer Time . TO He mighty Lord that rules in Heaven , strange wonders does in England send And many warnings hath us given , because we our lives should soon amend : But like the misbelieving Jews , so hard of heart our people be , They think that nothing can be true , but that which their own eyes do see . Therefore good people mark it well , i'll here lay open to your view , A Song most wondered and strange , and can approve it to be true , A Damsel did near padstow dwell , within the County of Cornwel fair , Whose parents had no Child but her , she was her Father's only heir . To whom came many a brave young man , intending to make her a wife , But never tempting tongue could make this Maid to change her maiden life : And though her parents riches had , and costly garments her alow'd , In homely habit she would go , and always hated to be proud . She never was herd to curse or swear , nor any word of anger give But courteous was in every thing , to them that did about her live : If she herd any one to swear , or take Gods Sacred name in vain , She told them that they Crucified our Saviour Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , and also did relieve the poor , The Widow and the fatherless , she every day fed at the door : Upon a time this Damosel she , fell sick and in a deadly swoon , She lay for twenty hours space no life in her could then be found . Her aged father did lament , her mother she shed many a tear , She wept , she wailed , she wrung her hands , for loss of this her Daughter dear : Alas , alas my child she said , how dearly I have tendered thee , And wilt thou now forsake the world , and leave me in this misery . I would my birth had been my death , then never had I seen this day , This grievous moan the mother made by her dear daughter as she lay At last she did strong waters fetch , and rubs her Temples and each vein , Till at the last the Damsel had recovered life and sense again . And being come unto her speech , with voice most shrill aloud she cried , Oh Mother you have done me wrong this cannot be by you denied : For I was in the way to heaven , two glorious Angels did me guide Who gently took me by the hand and held me up on every side . S Inging of Psalms and spiritual Songs , so long as we passed on the way , Till he which had a Golden Crown met us and caused us to stay : Return said he from whence thou camest thy Mother for thee makes great moan And tell these things which I declare unto thy neighbours every one . Speak this quoth he unto them all , how that the Lord ever long will send , A grievous punishment to them , that do his will wilfully offend : This is the last age of the world , even to the very sink of since , The puddle of Iniquity , which you long time have wallowed in . The men and wives live in discord , the Father envies his own Son , The Rich , and poor , the old the young do hourly into Mischief run : Extortion and Idolatry , and hateful pride is now in use , Blasphemous oaths and curses vile , the people count as no abuse . Good ministers are set at nought the Sabbath is profaned also , The poor lies starving in the streets , oppressed with sorrow grief and woe : The loathsome since of drunkenness and whoredom does too much exceed , He that can do his neighbour wrong , does think he does a Godly deed . Now ponder well what I do say , dooms dreadful day is nigh at hand , Fire and brimstone shall destroy the Heaven , the earth , the Sea and Land And every Soul before the Lord , a just account he then shall give , His conscience shall a witness be , in what condition he did live . Then he that hath done well shall pass forthwith to everlasting rest , And live among those glorious Saints , which Jesus Christ our Lord hath blessed : Where Martyrs , Prophets & amp ; patriarchs , do hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and honour be to God , and unto Christ our Heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , when they shall hear the sentence passed Depart you cursed into hell , whose fire for ever more shall last : The sorrows which are here foretold , will come on you are it be long , Except Repentance truly dwell in hearts of all both old and young . Repentance and true watery eyes , will help to quench the burning flame , Which he hath kindled to consume this wicked world's most rotten frame : Let not your building all so brave , be burned and wasted with Gods ire , Nor let our Souls for whom Christ died , be burned in hells eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophesy . TO Hese speeches spoke the Maiden died , and came no more to life again , Her Soul no doubt is gone to heaven with glorious angels to remain : At her decease and harmony of Music there was herd to found . Which ravished all the standers by , it did with sweetness so abound . It pierced the earth and air also , yet no man knew from whence it came , But each one said it came from heaven , and presently upon the same , The Magistrates of that same parish , which herd and saw this wonder strange Desired to have it put in print , cause wicked men their ways may change . The Names of [ tO ] h [ e ] Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her Deathbed , and herd the words of the Prophesy which she delivered , were as follows : W. Watts Curate , T. Davis Head-Constable , R. Wilkings , and C. Tanner , Church-Wardens , who by con - sent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in the the presence at the Damosels decease , caused a Letter to be written and sent from thence to London , on purpose to have it printed , whereby to avoid scandal . Contrived into Meeter by L. P , Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Wondered Prophesy , Declared by Christian James a Maid of twenty years of age ( late Daughter to Daniel James ) who was born and bred near the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwal , who departed this life upon the 8th . of March . With a true relation of her Behaviour , both in her life time and at the hour of her death , worthy to be had in perpetual me - mory . To the Tune of , In Summer Time . TO He mighty Lord that rules in Heaven , strange wonders does in England send And many warnings hath us given , because we our lives should soon amend : But like the misbelieving Jews , so hard of heart our people be , They think that nothing can be true , but that which their own eyes do see . Therefore good people mark it well , i'll here lay open to your view , A Song most wondered and strange , and can approve it to be true , A Damsel did near padstow dwell , within the County of Cornwel fair , Whose parents had no Child but her , she was her Father's only heir . To whom came many a brave young man , intending to make her a wife , But never tempting tongue could make this Maid to change her maiden life : And though her parents riches had , and costly garments her alow'd , In homely habit she would go , and always hated to be proud . She never was herd to curse or swear , nor any word of anger give But courteous was in every thing , to them that did about her live : If she herd any one to swear , or take Gods Sacred name in vain , She told them that they Crucified our Saviour Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , and also did relieve the poor , The Widow and the fatherless , she every day fed at the door : Upon a time this Damosel she , fell sick and in a deadly swoon , She lay for twenty hours space no life in her could then be found . Her aged father did lament , her mother she shed many a tear , She wept , she wailed , she wrung her hands , for loss of this her Daughter dear : Alas , alas my child she said , how dearly I have tendered thee , And wilt thou now forsake the world , and leave me in this misery . I would my birth had been my death , then never had I seen this day , This grievous moan the mother made by her dear daughter as she lay At last she did strong waters fetch , and rubs her Temples and each vein , Till at the last the Damsel had recovered life and sense again . And being come unto her speech , with voice most shrill aloud she cried , Oh Mother you have done me wrong this cannot be by you denied : For I was in the way to heaven , two glorious Angels did me guide Who gently took me by the hand and held me up on every side . S Inging of Psalms and spiritual Songs , so long as we passed on the way , Till he which had a Golden Crown met us and caused us to stay : Return said he from whence thou camest thy Mother for thee makes great moan And tell these things which I declare unto thy neighbours every one . Speak this quoth he unto them all , how that the Lord ever long will send , A grievous punishment to them , that do his will wilfully offend : This is the last age of the world , even to the very sink of since , The puddle of Iniquity , which you long time have wallowed in . The men and wives live in discord , the Father envies his own Son , The Rich , and poor , the old the young do hourly into Mischief run : Extortion and Idolatry , and hateful pride is now in use , Blasphemous oaths and curses vile , the people count as no abuse . Good ministers are set at nought the Sabbath is profaned also , The poor lies starving in the streets , oppressed with sorrow grief and woe : The loathsome since of drunkenness and whoredom does too much exceed , He that can do his neighbour wrong , does think he does a Godly deed . Now ponder well what I do say , dooms dreadful day is nigh at hand , Fire and brimstone shall destroy the Heaven , the earth , the Sea and Land And every Soul before the Lord , a just account he then shall give , His conscience shall a witness be , in what condition he did live . Then he that hath done well shall pass forthwith to everlasting rest , And live among those glorious Saints , which Jesus Christ our Lord hath blessed : Where Martyrs , Prophets & amp ; patriarchs , do hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and honour be to God , and unto Christ our Heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , when they shall hear the sentence passed Depart you cursed into hell , whose fire for ever more shall last : The sorrows which are here foretold , will come on you are it be long , Except Repentance truly dwell in hearts of all both old and young . Repentance and true watery eyes , will help to quench the burning flame , Which he hath kindled to consume this wicked world's most rotten frame : Let not your building all so brave , be burned and wasted with Gods ire , Nor let our Souls for whom Christ died , be burned in hells eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophesy . TO Hese speeches spoke the Maiden died , and came no more to life again , Her Soul no doubt is gone to heaven with glorious angels to remain : At her decease and harmony of Music there was herd to found . Which ravished all the standers by , it did with sweetness so abound . It pierced the earth and air also , yet no man knew from whence it came , But each one said it came from heaven , and presently upon the same , The Magistrates of that same parish , which herd and saw this wonder strange Desired to have it put in print , cause wicked men their ways may change . The Names of [ tO ] h [ e ] Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her Deathbed , and herd the words of the Prophesy which she delivered , were as follows : W. Watts Curate , T. Davis Head-Constable , R. Wilkings , and C. Tanner , Church-Wardens , who by con - sent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in the the presence at the Damosels decease , caused a Letter to be written and sent from thence to London , on purpose to have it printed , whereby to avoid scandal . Contrived into Meeter by L. P , Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 