A godly song for all peni [ te ] nt Sinners In these Sinful Times . Good people all , come hear what I do say , And do not think your time here long to stay ; And understand but what is in these Lines , I will assure you great comfort you may find : To make you know the Good then from the Bad , Such Verses to you seldom hath been Read . To the Tune of , A Lesson for all True Christians . G Ood deople all , I'll tell you here in short , Our sins are grievous and I'm sorry fored ; Give ear a while unto me I do pray , And understand before you go away . First serve God of Heaven , and call to him for Grace , Our time's not long , our glass runs on a pace Oh wicked wretches that we be , I say , Let's repent our sins before our dying day . God made Man , to serve him , as it does appear As you may find it in the Scriptures clear ; Our Pride and Malice bears so great a sway , And dangers many a Soul be cast away . In serving God is a hard thing to do , For want of Grace brings many a one to woe , Yet in never a Nation as it's known full well , Has better Teaching , yet we do Rebel . God's Ministers does labour every day , To bring us in a blessed Godly way ; to save our souls , which Christ did buy so dear , So many blessed Sermons we do hear . But many Itching Ears , there are , I fear , Most petty people are so void of care , To hear the word , and shake off filthy since , And mend their lives , and a new life begin . Our time more precious then the purest gold , We are here to day , to morrow in the mould ; Who would be proud of any worldly treasure , Or in this world of any Earthly pleasure . Good people now , let us love one another , these dangerous times we can hardly trust our Brother ; Desimulation , and delights in since , Then let's leave it off , and a new life to begin . The Serpent in the [ Wood ] seeks for his Prey , So does the Papists , both by Night and Day : Therefore Good Lord , we Humbly thee Implore , Have Mercy on Us , Now , and Evermore . O let us pray to God then Night and Day , Keep in good Company , and bless us , I do say ; Bad Company , as we all the same have known has caused many a brave man to be overthrown Parents be careful , and give God the Praise , & amp ; teach your Children how to guide their ways And not to curse & amp ; swear while they are young , As many does that passes on along . Do not wrong the Widow nor the fatherless , But as thou'rt able help them in distress : What's given to the Poor is lent the Lord , As holy Scriptures do the same record . Let's believe in Christ & amp ; then our case is good , That for our souls he spilled his dearest Blood : And gave his life most freely up for all , God give us grace upon his Name to call . The price was great that baught our souls you hear our saviour Christ ransomed them so dear Repent your sins , and pray observe that cost , He is unwilling any should be lost . Good people all let us repent with speed , Our time goes on , we never had more need : And be careful what we do now every day , And put it not off unto the latter day . And believe most firmly in the God of Heaven , That our great sins they may be all forgiven : And that our Saviour died to set us free , Lord bring our souls sweet saviour christ to thee Lord give us grace we all may be prepared , And not lie sleeping in our sins unarmed : For the Devil he lies lurking every day , To deprive us of our souls both night and day There's many wicked people in this Land , That of Gods word they do not understand : But let them think that one day they must die [ e ] And as the Tree does fallen so it must lie . There is many a one that dies a sudden death And hath not time to speak to draw their breat [ h ] Or say , the Lord have mercy upon my Soul , To ask forgiveness for their sins so foul . Good people all once more I will say , While you have time neglect not for to pray : And pray to Christ that bought our souls so de [ are ] To forgive us our sins sweet Jesus hear ou [ r ] pray [ r ] Now to conclude sweet Jesus guide our ways In godliness to lengthen out our days : And bring us all to make a Godly end , That we in Heaven may live , World without [ tO ] End FINIS . LONDON , Printed for F. Coals , T. Ver [ e ] J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A godly song for all peni [ te ] nt Sinners In these Sinful Times . Good people all , come hear what I do say , And do not think your time here long to stay ; And understand but what is in these Lines , I will assure you great comfort you may find : To make you know the Good then from the Bad , Such Verses to you seldom hath been Read . To the Tune of , A Lesson for all True Christians . G Ood deople all , I'll tell you here in short , Our sins are grievous and I'm sorry fored ; Give ear a while unto me I do pray , And understand before you go away . First serve God of Heaven , and call to him for Grace , Our time's not long , our glass runs on a pace Oh wicked wretches that we be , I say , Let's repent our sins before our dying day . God made Man , to serve him , as it does appear As you may find it in the Scriptures clear ; Our Pride and Malice bears so great a sway , And dangers many a Soul be cast away . In serving God is a hard thing to do , For want of Grace brings many a one to woe , Yet in never a Nation as it's known full well , Has better Teaching , yet we do Rebel . God's Ministers does labour every day , To bring us in a blessed Godly way ; to save our souls , which Christ did buy so dear , So many blessed Sermons we do hear . But many Itching Ears , there are , I fear , Most petty people are so void of care , To hear the word , and shake off filthy since , And mend their lives , and a new life begin . Our time more precious then the purest gold , We are here to day , to morrow in the mould ; Who would be proud of any worldly treasure , Or in this world of any Earthly pleasure . Good people now , let us love one another , these dangerous times we can hardly trust our Brother ; Desimulation , and delights in since , Then let's leave it off , and a new life to begin . The Serpent in the [ Wood ] seeks for his Prey , So does the Papists , both by Night and Day : Therefore Good Lord , we Humbly thee Implore , Have Mercy on Us , Now , and Evermore . O let us pray to God then Night and Day , Keep in good Company , and bless us , I do say ; Bad Company , as we all the same have known has caused many a brave man to be overthrown Parents be careful , and give God the Praise , & amp ; teach your Children how to guide their ways And not to curse & amp ; swear while they are young , As many does that passes on along . Do not wrong the Widow nor the fatherless , But as thou'rt able help them in distress : What's given to the Poor is lent the Lord , As holy Scriptures do the same record . Let's believe in Christ & amp ; then our case is good , That for our souls he spilled his dearest Blood : And gave his life most freely up for all , God give us grace upon his Name to call . The price was great that baught our souls you hear our saviour Christ ransomed them so dear Repent your sins , and pray observe that cost , He is unwilling any should be lost . Good people all let us repent with speed , Our time goes on , we never had more need : And be careful what we do now every day , And put it not off unto the latter day . And believe most firmly in the God of Heaven , That our great sins they may be all forgiven : And that our Saviour died to set us free , Lord bring our souls sweet saviour christ to thee Lord give us grace we all may be prepared , And not lie sleeping in our sins unarmed : For the Devil he lies lurking every day , To deprive us of our souls both night and day There's many wicked people in this Land , That of Gods word they do not understand : But let them think that one day they must die [ e ] And as the Tree does fallen so it must lie . There is many a one that dies a sudden death And hath not time to speak to draw their breat [ h ] Or say , the Lord have mercy upon my Soul , To ask forgiveness for their sins so foul . Good people all once more I will say , While you have time neglect not for to pray : And pray to Christ that bought our souls so de [ are ] To forgive us our sins sweet Jesus hear ou [ r ] pray [ r ] Now to conclude sweet Jesus guide our ways In godliness to lengthen out our days : And bring us all to make a Godly end , That we in Heaven may live , World without [ tO ] End FINIS . LONDON , Printed for F. Coals , T. Ver [ e ] J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 