The Country Travellers Advice . Being and Admonition to his Fellow-Travellers , persuading them to be careful to avoid the since of Drunkenness , which is the forerunner of all other evils , and learn to led sober lives , that they may see Happy Days , Peace and Plenty . To the Tune of , Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order . K Ind Travellers , I pray attend , To you alone these Lines I send ; Wherein I wholesome Counsel give , That you right sober lives may live . You know the since of Drunkenness , No Tongue is able to express What sorrows it will bring Men to , That eagerly the same pursue . I know you Travel up and down To every Fair and Market-Town , Far from the place of your abided , Thus while you travel on the Road , Unto the Ale-House you must go For Drink and Lodgings , this I know ; Yet moderation always use , And don't Gods Creatures there abuse . Here is a since , the which I'll name , Now those that use it are to blame , That is when methods then devise , Their Friend with Liquour to disguise . Thus to impose upon your Friend , The Laws of God you do offend , And you are guilty of the since , Because you thus betrayed him in . A Stumbling-Block we should not lay In any Friend or Neighbours way , To glory in his shame or fallen , Such sins does for just Vengeance call . When sottish Men together meet , The Hostess she both kind and sweet , Will be deluding them to stay , Till what they have becomes the prey . In Liquours strong your Wits you drowned And all your senses quite confound , And being stripped of all your store , You then may trot and sweat for more . At length with a sad aching heart , These boon Companions often part ; The Hostess will small kindness show , By sad experience this I know . We often do bad Husbands see Reduced to woeful Poverty ; From thence a thousand evils flows , It makes men's very Friends their Foes . The since of Drunkenness I know Hath proved some youngman's overthrow It being the forerunner still Of all that can be acted ill . Drink causes men to curse and swear , They in that humour do not care What crying sins they then commit , All fear of God they quite forget . Likewise a Harlots company , By them , alas ! is thought to be Far better than a lawful Wife , Which often causes care and strife . From thence strange passion do arise , As cruel blows and frightful cries , While tears flow like a mighty flood , Those passion often end in blood . Now is not this a woeful case , That men should run to lose a Raze , And bring themselves to sad distress , And all by brutish Drunkenness . I fear the Ale-Wives I offend , Who does delight that men should spend And waste their substance day by day , That they may go both fine and gay . They flourish that strong Liquour brew , So does the gay Exciseman too ; Nay many more both great and small , But the poor Drunkard pays for all . But let all men be ruled by me , And likewise learn sobriety , That the fine Alewives lazy Crew , May work and sweat as well as you . Now to conclude , may Heavens bless King William still with good success , That all the War may ended be , Then happy days we soon shall see . FINIS . Printed for Eben . Tracy , at the Three Bibles on L ondon-bridge . The Country Travellers Advice . Being and Admonition to his Fellow-Travellers , persuading them to be careful to avoid the since of Drunkenness , which is the forerunner of all other evils , and learn to led sober lives , that they may see Happy Days , Peace and Plenty . To the Tune of , Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order . K Ind Travellers , I pray attend , To you alone these Lines I send ; Wherein I wholesome Counsel give , That you right sober lives may live . You know the since of Drunkenness , No Tongue is able to express What sorrows it will bring Men to , That eagerly the same pursue . I know you Travel up and down To every Fair and Market-Town , Far from the place of your abided , Thus while you travel on the Road , Unto the Ale-House you must go For Drink and Lodgings , this I know ; Yet moderation always use , And don't Gods Creatures there abuse . Here is a since , the which I'll name , Now those that use it are to blame , That is when methods then devise , Their Friend with Liquour to disguise . Thus to impose upon your Friend , The Laws of God you do offend , And you are guilty of the since , Because you thus betrayed him in . A Stumbling-Block we should not lay In any Friend or Neighbours way , To glory in his shame or fallen , Such sins does for just Vengeance call . When sottish Men together meet , The Hostess she both kind and sweet , Will be deluding them to stay , Till what they have becomes the prey . In Liquours strong your Wits you drowned And all your senses quite confound , And being stripped of all your store , You then may trot and sweat for more . At length with a sad aching heart , These boon Companions often part ; The Hostess will small kindness show , By sad experience this I know . We often do bad Husbands see Reduced to woeful Poverty ; From thence a thousand evils flows , It makes men's very Friends their Foes . The since of Drunkenness I know Hath proved some youngman's overthrow It being the forerunner still Of all that can be acted ill . Drink causes men to curse and swear , They in that humour do not care What crying sins they then commit , All fear of God they quite forget . Likewise a Harlots company , By them , alas ! is thought to be Far better than a lawful Wife , Which often causes care and strife . From thence strange passion do arise , As cruel blows and frightful cries , While tears flow like a mighty flood , Those passion often end in blood . Now is not this a woeful case , That men should run to lose a Raze , And bring themselves to sad distress , And all by brutish Drunkenness . I fear the Ale-Wives I offend , Who does delight that men should spend And waste their substance day by day , That they may go both fine and gay . They flourish that strong Liquour brew , So does the gay Exciseman too ; Nay many more both great and small , But the poor Drunkard pays for all . But let all men be ruled by me , And likewise learn sobriety , That the fine Alewives lazy Crew , May work and sweat as well as you . Now to conclude , may Heavens bless King William still with good success , That all the War may ended be , Then happy days we soon shall see . FINIS . Printed for Eben . Tracy , at the Three Bibles on L ondon-bridge . 