The doleful Dance , and Song of Death ; Entitled , Dance after my Pipe . To a Pleasant New Tune . C and you dance the shaking of the sheets , a dance that every one must do ? Can you trim it up with dainty sweets , and every thing as longs thereto ? Make ready then your winding sheet , And see how you can bestir your feet , For death is the man that all must meet . Bring away the Beggar and the King , and every man in his degree , Bring the old and youngest thing , come all to death and follow me . The Courtier with his lofty looks , The Lawyer with his learned Books , The Banker with his baiting-hooks . Merchant's have you made your Mars in France , in Italy and all about ? Know you not that you and I must dance , both our heels wrapped in a clout : What mean you to make your houses gay , And I must take the Tenant away , And dig for your sakes the clods of clay . Think you on the solemn Sizes passed , how suddenly in Oxfordshire , I came and made the Judges all aghast , and Justices that did appear . And took both Bell and Baram away , And many a worthy man that day , And all their bodies brought to clay . Think you that I dare not come to Schools , where all the cunning Clerks be most ? Take I not always both wise and fools , and am I not in every Coast ? Assure your selves no creature can , Make death afraid of any man , Or know my coming , where or when . where be they that make their Leases strong and join about them land to land , Do you make account to live so long , to have the world come to your hand : No foolish nowle , for all thy pence , Full soon thy soul must needs go hence , Then who shall toil for thy defence . And you that lean on your Ladies laps , and lay your heads upon their knee , Think you for to play with beauteous paps , and not to come and dance with me : No , fair Lords and Ladies all , I will make you come when I do call , And find you a Pipe to dance withal . And you that are busy-headed fools , to bubble of a pelting straw , Know you not that I have ready tools , to cut you from your crafty Law : And you that safely buy and fell , And think you make your Markets well , Must dance with death wheresoever you dwell Pride must have a pretty sheet , I see , for properly she loves to dance , Come away my wanton Wench to me , as gallantly as your eye can glance : And all good-fellows that flash and swash , In reds and yellows of rebel dash , I warrant you need not be so rash . For I can quickly cool you all , how hight or stout so ever you be , Both high and low , both great and small , I nought do fear your high degree . The Ladies fair , the Beldames old , The Champion stout , the Soldier bold , Must all with me to earthly mould . Therefore take time while it is lent , prepare with me your selves to dance , Forget me not , your lives lament , I come oftentimes by sudden chance . Be ready therefore , watch and pray , That when my Minstrel pipe does play , You may to Heaven dance the way . FINIS . A Godly Ballad of the Just Man Job . Wherein his great patience he does declare , His plagues and his misery's , and yet did not despair . The Tune is , The Merchant . W Alking all alone , No not long ago , I herd one wail and weep ; alas he said , I am laid In sorrow strong and deep , To hear him cry , I did reply , and privily above , there did I find , in secret mind . the just and patient Job . His woeful pain Did me constrain , by force to wail and moan , God did him prove , how he did love , the living Lord alone . In heaviness , He did express , these words with bitter tears , alas poor man , wretched I am , in care my self out-wares . This mortal life , Is but a strife , a battle great and strong , my years also , to wast and go , and not continue long . The day wherein , I did begin , to move and stir my breath , would God I had , and exchange made , and turned unto death . So should not I In misery , be wrapped as I am , the time and day , well curse I may , when to this world I came . For my faults past , I am outcast , and of all men abhorred , Oh that I might , once stand in sighed , to reason with the Lord . I should then know , Why he does show this extreme cruelty , upon his flesh , which is but grass , and born is for to die . From top to toe , I feel with woe , that sorrow is my meat , put to exile , with Botch and Boil , and dunghill is my seat . My Kinsfolk talk And by me walk , wondering at my fallen , they count my state , unfortunate , and so forsake me all . My children five , Which were alive , they all be quite destroyed , The Plague fell on my Cattle , With all that I enjoyed . Should I for them My God Blaspheme , and his good gifts despise , that will I not , but take my lot , giving his name the praise . They were not mine , But for a time , I know well it is so , God gave them me , why should not he , again take them me from . Thus having laid , Full still I stayed , his end for to behold , I there did see , his felicity , increasing manifold . I know well then , How patient men , should not suffer in vain , but shall be sure , to have pleasure , rewarded for their pain . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . The doleful Dance , and Song of Death ; Entitled , Dance after my Pipe . To a Pleasant New Tune . C and you dance the shaking of the sheets , a dance that every one must do ? Can you trim it up with dainty sweets , and every thing as longs thereto ? Make ready then your winding sheet , And see how you can bestir your feet , For death is the man that all must meet . Bring away the Beggar and the King , and every man in his degree , Bring the old and youngest thing , come all to death and follow me . The Courtier with his lofty looks , The Lawyer with his learned Books , The Banker with his baiting-hooks . Merchant's have you made your Mars in France , in Italy and all about ? Know you not that you and I must dance , both our heels wrapped in a clout : What mean you to make your houses gay , And I must take the Tenant away , And dig for your sakes the clods of clay . Think you on the solemn Sizes passed , how suddenly in Oxfordshire , I came and made the Judges all aghast , and Justices that did appear . And took both Bell and Baram away , And many a worthy man that day , And all their bodies brought to clay . Think you that I dare not come to Schools , where all the cunning Clerks be most ? Take I not always both wise and fools , and am I not in every Coast ? Assure your selves no creature can , Make death afraid of any man , Or know my coming , where or when . where be they that make their Leases strong and join about them land to land , Do you make account to live so long , to have the world come to your hand : No foolish nowle , for all thy pence , Full soon thy soul must needs go hence , Then who shall toil for thy defence . And you that lean on your Ladies laps , and lay your heads upon their knee , Think you for to play with beauteous paps , and not to come and dance with me : No , fair Lords and Ladies all , I will make you come when I do call , And find you a Pipe to dance withal . And you that are busy-headed fools , to bubble of a pelting straw , Know you not that I have ready tools , to cut you from your crafty Law : And you that safely buy and fell , And think you make your Markets well , Must dance with death wheresoever you dwell Pride must have a pretty sheet , I see , for properly she loves to dance , Come away my wanton Wench to me , as gallantly as your eye can glance : And all good-fellows that flash and swash , In reds and yellows of rebel dash , I warrant you need not be so rash . For I can quickly cool you all , how hight or stout so ever you be , Both high and low , both great and small , I nought do fear your high degree . The Ladies fair , the Beldames old , The Champion stout , the Soldier bold , Must all with me to earthly mould . Therefore take time while it is lent , prepare with me your selves to dance , Forget me not , your lives lament , I come oftentimes by sudden chance . Be ready therefore , watch and pray , That when my Minstrel pipe does play , You may to Heaven dance the way . FINIS . A Godly Ballad of the Just Man Job . Wherein his great patience he does declare , His plagues and his misery's , and yet did not despair . The Tune is , The Merchant . W Alking all alone , No not long ago , I herd one wail and weep ; alas he said , I am laid In sorrow strong and deep , To hear him cry , I did reply , and privily above , there did I find , in secret mind . the just and patient Job . His woeful pain Did me constrain , by force to wail and moan , God did him prove , how he did love , the living Lord alone . In heaviness , He did express , these words with bitter tears , alas poor man , wretched I am , in care my self out-wares . This mortal life , Is but a strife , a battle great and strong , my years also , to wast and go , and not continue long . The day wherein , I did begin , to move and stir my breath , would God I had , and exchange made , and turned unto death . So should not I In misery , be wrapped as I am , the time and day , well curse I may , when to this world I came . For my faults past , I am outcast , and of all men abhorred , Oh that I might , once stand in sighed , to reason with the Lord . I should then know , Why he does show this extreme cruelty , upon his flesh , which is but grass , and born is for to die . From top to toe , I feel with woe , that sorrow is my meat , put to exile , with Botch and Boil , and dunghill is my seat . My Kinsfolk talk And by me walk , wondering at my fallen , they count my state , unfortunate , and so forsake me all . My children five , Which were alive , they all be quite destroyed , The Plague fell on my Cattle , With all that I enjoyed . Should I for them My God Blaspheme , and his good gifts despise , that will I not , but take my lot , giving his name the praise . They were not mine , But for a time , I know well it is so , God gave them me , why should not he , again take them me from . Thus having laid , Full still I stayed , his end for to behold , I there did see , his felicity , increasing manifold . I know well then , How patient men , should not suffer in vain , but shall be sure , to have pleasure , rewarded for their pain . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 