A Prospective-Glass FOR CHRISTIANS ; To behold the Reigning Sins of this AGE : OR , The Complaint of Truth and Conscience against Pride , Envy , Hatred , and Malice ; which is too much Practised in this present AGE . To the Tune of Monstrous Women . Licensed according to Order . A S in a Slumber I was laid , poor Conscience was making moan ; I saw sweet Truth in Rags arrayed , dejected and all alone : I tell you the Aged as well as the Youth , They slighted and hated poor Conscience in Truth , But Dissimulation there's thousands will sooth : Oh Folly desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Sweet Truth immediately replied , the Nation may well complain , The Heart of Man is filled with Pride , and Malice does Rule and Reign : Ah Conscience ! I tell thee I find thou art poor , I see thou art Naked and turned out of door , The World sure was never so wicked before ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Some Men we find will rant and roar , and call it a merry Life , And oftentimes Embrace a Whore , and ruin and honest Wife : A Draggle-Tayl Drab they will cuddle and kiss , And call her sometime the Perfection of Bliss , For every Rascal must now have his Miss ; Oh Folly desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Young Harlots do like Porters ply , at every turning down , And when a Cully do's draw nigh , their Fair is but half a Crown : Then strait they both in a Coach must be put , The huffing young Gallant , the draggle-tayl Slut , While good honest People do walk it on Foot ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc The Pride of Women in this Land , was never in Eve our Mother ; See how their Top-Knots they do stand , one Story above another ! Their Necks are naked , their Breasts open wide , Black Patches , now Powdered and Painted beside , I think that the Devil's in Women for Pride ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc Some Men will say the Crow's not Black , thus flatter before your Face , Then cut your Throat behind your Back , and that in a little space : Their Smiles shall be presently turned to a Frown They'll do what they can for to tumble you down , And ruin a Neighbour for less than a Crown ; Oh Malice , desperate Malice , etc The downright Man that cannot cog , nor flatter his Friend at all , Nor fawn , like to a Spaniel Dog , is often run down by all : But he that hath a smooth Tongue to comply , Can Compliment , Flatter , Dissemble and Lie , O this is and honest Man , straight they will cry ; O Folly , desperate Folly , etc The Rich we find has many Friends , the poor they have few or none ; But when this painful Life it ends , we then shall be all as one : The wealthy Rich , Miser , and crafty old Knave , He shall with the poor Man , lie down in the Grave , He shall but a Shroud or a Winding-sheet have , Oh Mortals , covetous Mortals , Death we must all come to . Then what's the Glory of this World , for which we so much contend , When after Death we may be hurled , where Misery has no end ? Then while we are living and flourishing here , Oh labour to keep your Consciences clear , To part with this World then you need not to fear Hate Folly , desperate Folly , Death we all must come to . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . A Prospective-Glass FOR CHRISTIANS ; To behold the Reigning Sins of this AGE : OR , The Complaint of Truth and Conscience against Pride , Envy , Hatred , and Malice ; which is too much Practised in this present AGE . To the Tune of Monstrous Women . Licensed according to Order . A S in a Slumber I was laid , poor Conscience was making moan ; I saw sweet Truth in Rags arrayed , dejected and all alone : I tell you the Aged as well as the Youth , They slighted and hated poor Conscience in Truth , But Dissimulation there's thousands will sooth : Oh Folly desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Sweet Truth immediately replied , the Nation may well complain , The Heart of Man is filled with Pride , and Malice does Rule and Reign : Ah Conscience ! I tell thee I find thou art poor , I see thou art Naked and turned out of door , The World sure was never so wicked before ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Some Men we find will rant and roar , and call it a merry Life , And oftentimes Embrace a Whore , and ruin and honest Wife : A Draggle-Tayl Drab they will cuddle and kiss , And call her sometime the Perfection of Bliss , For every Rascal must now have his Miss ; Oh Folly desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Young Harlots do like Porters ply , at every turning down , And when a Cully do's draw nigh , their Fair is but half a Crown : Then strait they both in a Coach must be put , The huffing young Gallant , the draggle-tayl Slut , While good honest People do walk it on Foot ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc The Pride of Women in this Land , was never in Eve our Mother ; See how their Top-Knots they do stand , one Story above another ! Their Necks are naked , their Breasts open wide , Black Patches , now Powdered and Painted beside , I think that the Devil's in Women for Pride ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc Some Men will say the Crow's not Black , thus flatter before your Face , Then cut your Throat behind your Back , and that in a little space : Their Smiles shall be presently turned to a Frown They'll do what they can for to tumble you down , And ruin a Neighbour for less than a Crown ; Oh Malice , desperate Malice , etc The downright Man that cannot cog , nor flatter his Friend at all , Nor fawn , like to a Spaniel Dog , is often run down by all : But he that hath a smooth Tongue to comply , Can Compliment , Flatter , Dissemble and Lie , O this is and honest Man , straight they will cry ; O Folly , desperate Folly , etc The Rich we find has many Friends , the poor they have few or none ; But when this painful Life it ends , we then shall be all as one : The wealthy Rich , Miser , and crafty old Knave , He shall with the poor Man , lie down in the Grave , He shall but a Shroud or a Winding-sheet have , Oh Mortals , covetous Mortals , Death we must all come to . Then what's the Glory of this World , for which we so much contend , When after Death we may be hurled , where Misery has no end ? Then while we are living and flourishing here , Oh labour to keep your Consciences clear , To part with this World then you need not to fear Hate Folly , desperate Folly , Death we all must come to . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . 