A Looking-glass for all true Protestants : Or , A True Declaration of these Troublesome Times . The Papists they have acted such a Plot , That in England it will never be forgotten ; But God Defend our Protestant Nation still , And bless our Gracious King , if it be thy Will : And guide our Parliament in a right way , That our Enemies of us do never make a prey : And make our Kingdom , void and free from strife , And every Man and Woman , serve God and mend their Life . To the Tune of , Papists aim not too High . Here is Deceit , with twiring eyes , Holds up a Cross , and seems precise ; With Beads , and Crucifix also , Aiming too High , he falls full low , Even to the Popes Matterry Toe . Mind not Deceit , nor yet his Ways , But give unto the Lord Due Praise . W Hat woeful times we have now in our Land , If people do but rightly understand ? We are at a stand and know not what to do , Tradeing is dead which fills our hearts with woe let's not despair but call to God on high , And repent our sins , and to him for mercy cry . For 'twas his mercy for to set us free , From the Popish Plot of bloody Tyranny : We [ ne ] ed not fear if God but stand our friend , He'l bring them all unto a shameful end . Let not despair , etc . Great danger we was in it's truly known , To have lost our lives and all been overthrown : Their Hellish Treason it was laid so strong , Against Protestants , they wished them so much wrong Let's not despair , etc . But our good God with his All-seeing Eye , He found them out and quickly them did spy : He dashed them all to pieces in a trice , Let's love the truth , and all believe in Christ . Let's not despair , etc . Oh! what a broil among us has been made , These Papish Jesuits they have spoiled our trade : Which makes the Nation for to suffer soar , And very hard it goes among the Poor . Let's not despair , etc . God keep us all in Peace , and defend us still , Sweet God of Heaven , if it be thy blessed will : And bless us all from bloody minded men , Let all good people say with me , Amen . Let's not despair , etc . Good People all consider what was done , If they gone on in what they had begun : Then Fire and Faggots must have been our share , But our Saviour Christ of us had mighty care . Let's not despair , etc . Therefore let every Protestant praise the Lord . And join together all with one accord : His Mercy it was great unto us all , God give us Grace upon his Name to call . Let's not despair but call to God on high , And repent our sins , and to him for mercy cry . H E'l never leave us nor forsake us quite , You see the malice of the Popish spite : Though our sins be great his mercy is much more , God give us Grace to call on him therefore . Let's not despair , etc . These bloody plotters would have brought us down And destroyed our King and put him by his Crown : But God Almighty keeps him from their hand , His mercy is great we all may understand . Let's not despair , etc . God bless our City and set our Country free , From all such dangers and from Treachery : God bless all Protestants out of the Papists hands : That we come not to be tied within their bans . Let's not despair , etc . If they had prevailed we had been all undone , We had been destroyed every Mother's Son : God bless the Governors that rules the Land , That they may rightly of it understand . Let's not despair , etc . God keep us all in Unity and Peace , That rumours of these times they once may cease : That trading it may flourish once again , Many honest men will rejoice to see the same . Let's not despair , etc . God give the Gospel free passage I do pray , Let's all be careful how we go astray : And every one to shake off filthy since , And then good times be sure we shall live in . Let's not despair , etc . Then our Nation it will flourish every way , Though the Papists thought to have made of us a prey , But they was deceived of their Romish hope , We defy the Devil and their Hellhound Pope . Let's not despair , etc . And let all true Protestants now take care , And have a watchful eye to keep out of their snare : We had a warning by this late found Plot , And sift them thoroughly let every one take their lot . Let's not despair , etc . And never trust them nor their Hellish Charms , But keep them low and let them have no arms : What mischief had been done if they god power , We had never lived to have seen this hour . Let's not despair , etc . So God bless our King and Parliament I pray , To guide them in a true and Godly way : To set forth good Laws among us in our Land , That all true Protestants may forever stand . Let's not despair but call to God on high , etc . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Looking-glass for all true Protestants : Or , A True Declaration of these Troublesome Times . The Papists they have acted such a Plot , That in England it will never be forgotten ; But God Defend our Protestant Nation still , And bless our Gracious King , if it be thy Will : And guide our Parliament in a right way , That our Enemies of us do never make a prey : And make our Kingdom , void and free from strife , And every Man and Woman , serve God and mend their Life . To the Tune of , Papists aim not too High . Here is Deceit , with twiring eyes , Holds up a Cross , and seems precise ; With Beads , and Crucifix also , Aiming too High , he falls full low , Even to the Popes Matterry Toe . Mind not Deceit , nor yet his Ways , But give unto the Lord Due Praise . W Hat woeful times we have now in our Land , If people do but rightly understand ? We are at a stand and know not what to do , Tradeing is dead which fills our hearts with woe let's not despair but call to God on high , And repent our sins , and to him for mercy cry . For 'twas his mercy for to set us free , From the Popish Plot of bloody Tyranny : We [ ne ] ed not fear if God but stand our friend , He'l bring them all unto a shameful end . Let not despair , etc . Great danger we was in it's truly known , To have lost our lives and all been overthrown : Their Hellish Treason it was laid so strong , Against Protestants , they wished them so much wrong Let's not despair , etc . But our good God with his All-seeing Eye , He found them out and quickly them did spy : He dashed them all to pieces in a trice , Let's love the truth , and all believe in Christ . Let's not despair , etc . Oh! what a broil among us has been made , These Papish Jesuits they have spoiled our trade : Which makes the Nation for to suffer soar , And very hard it goes among the Poor . Let's not despair , etc . God keep us all in Peace , and defend us still , Sweet God of Heaven , if it be thy blessed will : And bless us all from bloody minded men , Let all good people say with me , Amen . Let's not despair , etc . Good People all consider what was done , If they gone on in what they had begun : Then Fire and Faggots must have been our share , But our Saviour Christ of us had mighty care . Let's not despair , etc . Therefore let every Protestant praise the Lord . And join together all with one accord : His Mercy it was great unto us all , God give us Grace upon his Name to call . Let's not despair but call to God on high , And repent our sins , and to him for mercy cry . H E'l never leave us nor forsake us quite , You see the malice of the Popish spite : Though our sins be great his mercy is much more , God give us Grace to call on him therefore . Let's not despair , etc . These bloody plotters would have brought us down And destroyed our King and put him by his Crown : But God Almighty keeps him from their hand , His mercy is great we all may understand . Let's not despair , etc . God bless our City and set our Country free , From all such dangers and from Treachery : God bless all Protestants out of the Papists hands : That we come not to be tied within their bans . Let's not despair , etc . If they had prevailed we had been all undone , We had been destroyed every Mother's Son : God bless the Governors that rules the Land , That they may rightly of it understand . Let's not despair , etc . God keep us all in Unity and Peace , That rumours of these times they once may cease : That trading it may flourish once again , Many honest men will rejoice to see the same . Let's not despair , etc . God give the Gospel free passage I do pray , Let's all be careful how we go astray : And every one to shake off filthy since , And then good times be sure we shall live in . Let's not despair , etc . Then our Nation it will flourish every way , Though the Papists thought to have made of us a prey , But they was deceived of their Romish hope , We defy the Devil and their Hellhound Pope . Let's not despair , etc . And let all true Protestants now take care , And have a watchful eye to keep out of their snare : We had a warning by this late found Plot , And sift them thoroughly let every one take their lot . Let's not despair , etc . And never trust them nor their Hellish Charms , But keep them low and let them have no arms : What mischief had been done if they god power , We had never lived to have seen this hour . Let's not despair , etc . So God bless our King and Parliament I pray , To guide them in a true and Godly way : To set forth good Laws among us in our Land , That all true Protestants may forever stand . Let's not despair but call to God on high , etc . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 