ENGLANDS Deliverance , OR , God's Gracious Mercy at the time of Misery . When in Distress , and pitiless , we do with Troubles meet , And then in Grief find Gods Relief , then is his Mercy sweet . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . F Arewell the Old year , with all Sorrow and Grief , And to that rank Crew , which did rein here in chief , Who sought like the Ravenous Wolves to destroy , Religion and Laws , which by right we enjoy . While Zions fair Glory did seem to decay , Like Nineve , thousands repenting did pray , That God would in mercy deliver his own , Their cries came before the Great God in his Throne . The good Learned Bishops Religious and Grave , Was flouted by every scurrilous Slave ; Exposed to the Malice of every Pen , But God he stepped in , and delivered they then . Who seeing how faithful our Church did believe , Before this New-year then he sent a Reprieve ; For to rescue his Flock . and from danger set free , Which was in the Hands of Herod ' s Cruelty . When we on the brink of sad Ruin did stand , 'Twas done by as great a miraculous Hand , As if he'd divided the Read Seas once more ; Oh! that we may ever his Mercies adore . Now let Rich and Poor evermore praise the Lord , And let eighty eight be set down in Record , How God has prevented their cruel design , Which they thought to accomplish by eighty and nine . And now the New-year with much joy is come in , Which Babylon thought we should never have seen ; But now they are routed and put to the run , And some may be sorry for what they have done . But let them send to their Old Daddy the Pope , Who will not deny them a Pardon I hope ; That when by the Laws of this Land they are cast , To see if it's able to save them at last . Let the Wolf in the Tower be hanged in a String , For he thought to devour our Flocks before Spring ; He snapped at our Shepherd's and sent them away , Where now he remains his own self without Prey . He reaped all the Joys that this World had in store , To please his Ambition he cared for no more ; His Heart was like Nero ' s so cruelly bent , To spill any honest men blood he'd consent . His Pride and Ambition came to that degree , That a second Hammond he termed might be , Who built up a Gibbet for poor Mordecai , He died oned himself , and I wish so may he . The People of God then was all to have died , To gratify Hammond ' s most insolent Pride , As we by the Roman was promised our Doom , Which was to be sacrificed to Room . This grieved the Princes in another Land , When as our ruin she did understand , This Hester from Holland sent her General , Who through God's Mercies redeemed us from Thrall . True Love then did flow like a Fountain or Flood , And Conquered without the effusion of Blood ; The strong Arm of Heaven this Battle did fight , And put our most absolute Foes to the flight . Let the Brittains now Triumph on Mountains & amp ; Dales , Where ever they Inhabit in England or Wales ; But for Te Deum , pray let it alone , Because your late Prince is not very well know . But yet the true Brittains they still are in doubt , Because it was never yet fairly made out , Though it glissened like Gold , yet like Led it did ring ; For they dreamed that the Prince was no kin to a King . God bless the bright Star that supported our Laws , And the seven bright Candles that pleaded our cause ; Let their Foes be their Footstool , while the world does remain , That Popery never may flourish again . Printed for A. B . ENGLANDS Deliverance , OR , God's Gracious Mercy at the time of Misery . When in Distress , and pitiless , we do with Troubles meet , And then in Grief find Gods Relief , then is his Mercy sweet . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . F Arewell the Old year , with all Sorrow and Grief , And to that rank Crew , which did rein here in chief , Who sought like the Ravenous Wolves to destroy , Religion and Laws , which by right we enjoy . While Zions fair Glory did seem to decay , Like Nineve , thousands repenting did pray , That God would in mercy deliver his own , Their cries came before the Great God in his Throne . The good Learned Bishops Religious and Grave , Was flouted by every scurrilous Slave ; Exposed to the Malice of every Pen , But God he stepped in , and delivered they then . Who seeing how faithful our Church did believe , Before this New-year then he sent a Reprieve ; For to rescue his Flock . and from danger set free , Which was in the Hands of Herod ' s Cruelty . When we on the brink of sad Ruin did stand , 'Twas done by as great a miraculous Hand , As if he'd divided the Read Seas once more ; Oh! that we may ever his Mercies adore . Now let Rich and Poor evermore praise the Lord , And let eighty eight be set down in Record , How God has prevented their cruel design , Which they thought to accomplish by eighty and nine . And now the New-year with much joy is come in , Which Babylon thought we should never have seen ; But now they are routed and put to the run , And some may be sorry for what they have done . But let them send to their Old Daddy the Pope , Who will not deny them a Pardon I hope ; That when by the Laws of this Land they are cast , To see if it's able to save them at last . Let the Wolf in the Tower be hanged in a String , For he thought to devour our Flocks before Spring ; He snapped at our Shepherd's and sent them away , Where now he remains his own self without Prey . He reaped all the Joys that this World had in store , To please his Ambition he cared for no more ; His Heart was like Nero ' s so cruelly bent , To spill any honest men blood he'd consent . His Pride and Ambition came to that degree , That a second Hammond he termed might be , Who built up a Gibbet for poor Mordecai , He died oned himself , and I wish so may he . The People of God then was all to have died , To gratify Hammond ' s most insolent Pride , As we by the Roman was promised our Doom , Which was to be sacrificed to Room . This grieved the Princes in another Land , When as our ruin she did understand , This Hester from Holland sent her General , Who through God's Mercies redeemed us from Thrall . True Love then did flow like a Fountain or Flood , And Conquered without the effusion of Blood ; The strong Arm of Heaven this Battle did fight , And put our most absolute Foes to the flight . Let the Brittains now Triumph on Mountains & amp ; Dales , Where ever they Inhabit in England or Wales ; But for Te Deum , pray let it alone , Because your late Prince is not very well know . But yet the true Brittains they still are in doubt , Because it was never yet fairly made out , Though it glissened like Gold , yet like Led it did ring ; For they dreamed that the Prince was no kin to a King . God bless the bright Star that supported our Laws , And the seven bright Candles that pleaded our cause ; Let their Foes be their Footstool , while the world does remain , That Popery never may flourish again . Printed for A. B. 