The Bedfordshire Prophesy : OR , The strange and wonderful Vision of Mr. Godson of the Town of Nonwich , who sickened on the 18th . of April , 1690. and lan - guished to the 26th . and then died ; yet after Twelve hours his Spirit returned to him again , and he gave this following Relation . The Truth of this Attested by William Celly , Thomas Roberts , William H ornby . To the Tune of Bernard's Vision , or , Aim not too high . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People all I pray you to attend Unto this Ditty which I here have penned , Of a strange W onder late in Bedfordshire , The like before I think you never did hear . W ithin the Town of Nonwich there did dwell , One Mr. Godson , who was known full well , To be a true Religious Man indeed , Who would the Poor distressed often feed . At length it was the Lord's most gracious Will That on the Eighteenth day of April H e sickened then , and languishing he lay , And died upon the Six and twentieth day . H e lay Twelve hours there deprived of Breath , In the cold Icy Arms of pale-faced Death , Then did his Soul reassume his former State , Unto the World strange things he did relate . Then turning to his Wife and Children Dear , With other Friends , he prayed them to give ear ; Saying , I have a Message to you all , And therefore now to God for Mercy call . In whose most Blessed Presence I have been , Since my Departure from this Flesh of since ; Where I such splendid Glory did behold , Which was more bright than pure refined Gold . From whence I know this wretched World below Are Vanities will bring both Grief and Woe ; If true repenting Tears do's not make way For your poor Souls before a dying day . Your Gold and Silver is but Dung and Dross , Ten thousand World's cannot repair the Loss Of one poor Soul that unrepented dies , Turn from your Sins I do you all advice . From the Celestial Mansions am I sent , To this Terrestrial earthly Tenement , With a brief Message , then I must away , My time is short I have not long to stay . I stay but Seven days , and then return , Therefore I pray observe this great Concern : When first that Place of Glory I beheld , My Soul was then with admiration filled . One straight in Glory did before me stand , Having a Golden Vial in his Hand , From whence into my Mouth Water did flow , Said I , Good Lord , What shall thy Servant do ? I am thy Fellow-servant , then said he , Go back , and tell the World the Lord's Decree ; His People's Prayers he has been pleased to hear , And therefore now their Foes they need not fear . He likewise said , K. William should Sail over , With a vast Army to the Irish Shore , And there subdue his Romish Enemies , Who soon shall fallen a bleeding Sacrifice . He likewise said , K. William soon should take He that his Promise did so often break , W here full Six Months he should confined lie , And at the length yield up the Ghost and die ; But yet a Twelvemonth still the War should last Until the Europe Princes they should blast The fading Glory of a mighty One , Who by this means should then be overthrown . For looking over a high Castle Wall , His Head should be struck by a Cannon Ball , And then all Places should Surrender straight , A and bloody Wars would presently abate . This is the Sum of what he did declare , To his dear Wife and Neighbours which was there Hereby you to my words may credit give , I have no more than Seven days to live . And then he told them all that he should die , The which it seems he did accordingly , The Truth of this strange Wonder will appea [ r ] From honest Men of Credit far and near . Printed in the Year 1690 . The Bedfordshire Prophesy : OR , The strange and wonderful Vision of Mr. Godson of the Town of Nonwich , who sickened on the 18th . of April , 1690. and lan - guished to the 26th . and then died ; yet after Twelve hours his Spirit returned to him again , and he gave this following Relation . The Truth of this Attested by William Celly , Thomas Roberts , William H ornby . To the Tune of Bernard's Vision , or , Aim not too high . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People all I pray you to attend Unto this Ditty which I here have penned , Of a strange W onder late in Bedfordshire , The like before I think you never did hear . W ithin the Town of Nonwich there did dwell , One Mr. Godson , who was known full well , To be a true Religious Man indeed , Who would the Poor distressed often feed . At length it was the Lord's most gracious Will That on the Eighteenth day of April H e sickened then , and languishing he lay , And died upon the Six and twentieth day . H e lay Twelve hours there deprived of Breath , In the cold Icy Arms of pale-faced Death , Then did his Soul reassume his former State , Unto the World strange things he did relate . Then turning to his Wife and Children Dear , With other Friends , he prayed them to give ear ; Saying , I have a Message to you all , And therefore now to God for Mercy call . In whose most Blessed Presence I have been , Since my Departure from this Flesh of since ; Where I such splendid Glory did behold , Which was more bright than pure refined Gold . From whence I know this wretched World below Are Vanities will bring both Grief and Woe ; If true repenting Tears do's not make way For your poor Souls before a dying day . Your Gold and Silver is but Dung and Dross , Ten thousand World's cannot repair the Loss Of one poor Soul that unrepented dies , Turn from your Sins I do you all advice . From the Celestial Mansions am I sent , To this Terrestrial earthly Tenement , With a brief Message , then I must away , My time is short I have not long to stay . I stay but Seven days , and then return , Therefore I pray observe this great Concern : When first that Place of Glory I beheld , My Soul was then with admiration filled . One straight in Glory did before me stand , Having a Golden Vial in his Hand , From whence into my Mouth Water did flow , Said I , Good Lord , What shall thy Servant do ? I am thy Fellow-servant , then said he , Go back , and tell the World the Lord's Decree ; His People's Prayers he has been pleased to hear , And therefore now their Foes they need not fear . He likewise said , K. William should Sail over , With a vast Army to the Irish Shore , And there subdue his Romish Enemies , Who soon shall fallen a bleeding Sacrifice . He likewise said , K. William soon should take He that his Promise did so often break , W here full Six Months he should confined lie , And at the length yield up the Ghost and die ; But yet a Twelvemonth still the War should last Until the Europe Princes they should blast The fading Glory of a mighty One , Who by this means should then be overthrown . For looking over a high Castle Wall , His Head should be struck by a Cannon Ball , And then all Places should Surrender straight , A and bloody Wars would presently abate . This is the Sum of what he did declare , To his dear Wife and Neighbours which was there Hereby you to my words may credit give , I have no more than Seven days to live . And then he told them all that he should die , The which it seems he did accordingly , The Truth of this strange Wonder will appea [ r ] From honest Men of Credit far and near . Printed in the Year 1690 . 