A Looking-Glass for Lascivious Young Men : OR , THE Prodigal Son SIFTED . Wherein is plainly discovered the Follies and Extravagancies of a Young Man , who gave himself up to all manner of Vice . To the great Grief of his Careful Parents . Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed and Entered according to Order A N Honest Old Man of late , had got a Prodigal Son ; Who spent his Coin at a mad rate , as if it 'twoued never be done . His Father did pine away , his Mother did mourn and weep ; These courses spoiled their Mirth by day , and robbed them by night of Sleep . At length the young Spark came home , as poor as and old Church-mouse ; So threadbare was the silly Mome , he could not harbour a Louse . The Old Folks took him to task , and Hoist him into a Sieve ; Where they did many questions ask , but not account he would give . They Sifted him over and over , at last they made him confess ; And first came out a strapping Whore , her name it was bouncing Bess . This slut she had sucked him dry , of all his Money and Wit : Which made him now to roar and cry , and look as he were besh ------ They give him the other shake . and out comes Eight or Nine more ; Which made them both such pains to take , until they siifted a score . Next comes a young Bastard forth , at which the old Woman starts ; It was a lumping pennyworth , a perfect buddle of Farts . With that the old Man took heart , and said to his frowning Wife ; Let's sift him thoroughly ever we part , [ si ] nce we shall have Grandsons rife . No no , then answered the Dame , this one is enough for me ; For it would be a burning shame more bastardly Babes to see . We'll Sift him no more for such , but try him for other game : With that they gave him tother touch , and forth a Laced Cravat came . A pair of frings Gloves fell next with Handkerchiefs Eight or Nine ; My son quoth they keep to this Text , and we shall not much repine . Then to it a main they went , and roundly sifted the Sot ; When lo to their great discontent they found out the Lord knows what . A whole Magazine of Dice , with Ninepins and Cards good store ; And after all a peck of Lice came tumbling on the floor . And that which was worst of all , they sifted the Spark so long ; They broke the Sieve and let him fallen , and so I must end my Song . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Britain , and A. Mil - bourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor in the Little-Old-Baily . Where any Chapman may be Fur - nished with all sorts of small Books and Ballads at Reasonable Rates . A Looking-Glass for Lascivious Young Men : OR , THE Prodigal Son SIFTED . Wherein is plainly discovered the Follies and Extravagancies of a Young Man , who gave himself up to all manner of Vice . To the great Grief of his Careful Parents . Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed and Entered according to Order A N Honest Old Man of late , had got a Prodigal Son ; Who spent his Coin at a mad rate , as if it 'twoued never be done . His Father did pine away , his Mother did mourn and weep ; These courses spoiled their Mirth by day , and robbed them by night of Sleep . At length the young Spark came home , as poor as and old Church-mouse ; So threadbare was the silly Mome , he could not harbour a Louse . The Old Folks took him to task , and Hoist him into a Sieve ; Where they did many questions ask , but not account he would give . They Sifted him over and over , at last they made him confess ; And first came out a strapping Whore , her name it was bouncing Bess . This slut she had sucked him dry , of all his Money and Wit : Which made him now to roar and cry , and look as he were besh ------ They give him the other shake . and out comes Eight or Nine more ; Which made them both such pains to take , until they siifted a score . Next comes a young Bastard forth , at which the old Woman starts ; It was a lumping pennyworth , a perfect buddle of Farts . With that the old Man took heart , and said to his frowning Wife ; Let's sift him thoroughly ever we part , [ si ] nce we shall have Grandsons rife . No no , then answered the Dame , this one is enough for me ; For it would be a burning shame more bastardly Babes to see . We'll Sift him no more for such , but try him for other game : With that they gave him tother touch , and forth a Laced Cravat came . A pair of frings Gloves fell next with Handkerchiefs Eight or Nine ; My son quoth they keep to this Text , and we shall not much repine . Then to it a main they went , and roundly sifted the Sot ; When lo to their great discontent they found out the Lord knows what . A whole Magazine of Dice , with Ninepins and Cards good store ; And after all a peck of Lice came tumbling on the floor . And that which was worst of all , they sifted the Spark so long ; They broke the Sieve and let him fallen , and so I must end my Song . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Britain , and A. Mil - bourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor in the Little-Old-Baily . Where any Chapman may be Fur - nished with all sorts of small Books and Ballads at Reasonable Rates . 