Prides Fallen ; Or , A warning for all English Women . By the Example of a strange Monster , born late in Germany , by a Merchant's proud Wife at Geneva . The Tune is , All you that love good fellows . ENglands fair dainty Dams , see here the fallen of Pride , Wantonness leave in time , that God may be your guide : I was a Dutch-land Vrow , shining in beauty bright . And a brave Merchant's Wife , in whom he took delight . All things I had at will , my heart could wish or crave , My diet dainty fair , my garments rich and brave : No wife in Germany , where I in pleasure dwelled , For golden bravery my person so excelled : My Coaches richly wrought , and decked with pearl and gold , Carried me up and down whereas my pleasure would : The earth I deemed too base , my feet to tread upon , My blooming Crimson Cheeks , felt neither Wind nor Sun , My beauty made me think , my self and Angel bright , Framed of heavenly mould , and not and earthly wight : For my souls happiness , Gods Holy Bible Book , I had my Looking-Glasse , where I most pleasure took . There was no fashion found , that might advance my pride ; But in my Lookingglass , my fancy soon espied : Every vain foolish toy , changes my wanton mind , And they best pleased me , that could new fashions find . Yet all these earthly joys , yielded me small content , oh that dame Nature had , never a Child to me sent , That makes my heart to bleed , for which offence to God , He therefore grievously , scourged me with his Rod , And in m [ y TO ] endear womb , of so pure flesh and blood , Created he , strange to see , a most deformed brood : That women of wanton pride , may take example by , How they in fashions found , offend the Lord on high . When the Babe came to light , and I brought to my bed , No cost was spared that night , to stand me in my stead : My Nurse's young and fair , fit for a Royal Queen , Gave all attendance there , as it was daily seen . Never had Merchant's Wife , of Ladies such a train , That came in gentle sort , at the hour of my pain : But when my swelling Womb , yielded up nature's due , Such a strange Monster then , never man hardly knew , The second part , to the same Tune . F Or it affrighted so , all the whole company , That ever one said in heart , vengeance now draws nigh , It had two faces strange , and two heads painted fair , On the brows curled locks , such as our wantons wear . One hand held right the shape , of a fair Looking-glass , In which I took delight , how my vain beauty was : Right the shape of a Rod scourging me for my since : The other seemed to have , perfectly seen therein . These women's wantonness , and their vain foolish minds , Never contented are with that thing God assigns : Look to it London Dames God keepeth plagues in store , And now the second part of this song shows more . Grief and care kills my heart , where God offended is , As the poor Merchant's wife , did worldly comforts miss : Strange were the misery's that she so long endured , No ease by women's help , could be as then procured . Hereupon speaks the child , with a voice fearfully , Mother , your wanton Pride , brings this your misery : Let your life soon amend , or else the mighty God , Will scourge your wantonness , with a more sharper Rod . About his neck a flaunting Ruff , it had now gallantly , Starched with white and blue , seemly unto the eye : With laces long and broad , as now are women's bans , Thus heavy wanton pride first in Gods anger stands . The breast was plated over , as still the Merchant's be , Now as lewd women wear , to hide adultery : Every part , every limb , had not true nature's frame , But to show to the world this my great since and shame . From the head to the foot , Monsterlike was it born , Every part had the shape of fashions daily worn : On the feet pinked shoes , insteps had Roses read : Which in silk now is used , so vainly are we led . Thus hath my flesh and blood , nourished now near my heart : Puts me in mind of since , and bids me now convert : Oh let all women then , take heed of wanton pride , Angels have fallen from heaven and for that since have died . No sooner brought to light was this fruit of my youth , But to the Counsel-house it was brought for a truth : Where to the Magistrates , in a most fearful sort : Began aloud to speak , and these words did report . I am a Messenger , now sent from God on high , To bid you all repent , Christ coming draws nigh . Repent you all with speed , this is a Message sure , The world seems at and end , and cannot long endure . Pride is the Prince of since , which is our chief delight . Mankind repent with speed , before the Lord does smite ; This is my last adieu , repentance soon provide : These were his latest words , and so the Monster died . Great was the fear of those , that these same speeches herd God grant all Christians may have their minds well prepared With true repentance , Gods mercy to implore , That never womankind may bring such fruit forth more : And you fair English Dams , that in pride do excel , This woeful misery , in your hearts print full well . Let not pride be your guide , for pride will have a fallen Maid and Wife , let my life , be warning to you all . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Prides Fallen ; Or , A warning for all English Women . By the Example of a strange Monster , born late in Germany , by a Merchant's proud Wife at Geneva . The Tune is , All you that love good fellows . ENglands fair dainty Dams , see here the fallen of Pride , Wantonness leave in time , that God may be your guide : I was a Dutch-land Vrow , shining in beauty bright . And a brave Merchant's Wife , in whom he took delight . All things I had at will , my heart could wish or crave , My diet dainty fair , my garments rich and brave : No wife in Germany , where I in pleasure dwelled , For golden bravery my person so excelled : My Coaches richly wrought , and decked with pearl and gold , Carried me up and down whereas my pleasure would : The earth I deemed too base , my feet to tread upon , My blooming Crimson Cheeks , felt neither Wind nor Sun , My beauty made me think , my self and Angel bright , Framed of heavenly mould , and not and earthly wight : For my souls happiness , Gods Holy Bible Book , I had my Looking-Glasse , where I most pleasure took . There was no fashion found , that might advance my pride ; But in my Lookingglass , my fancy soon espied : Every vain foolish toy , changes my wanton mind , And they best pleased me , that could new fashions find . Yet all these earthly joys , yielded me small content , oh that dame Nature had , never a Child to me sent , That makes my heart to bleed , for which offence to God , He therefore grievously , scourged me with his Rod , And in m [ y TO ] endear womb , of so pure flesh and blood , Created he , strange to see , a most deformed brood : That women of wanton pride , may take example by , How they in fashions found , offend the Lord on high . When the Babe came to light , and I brought to my bed , No cost was spared that night , to stand me in my stead : My Nurse's young and fair , fit for a Royal Queen , Gave all attendance there , as it was daily seen . Never had Merchant's Wife , of Ladies such a train , That came in gentle sort , at the hour of my pain : But when my swelling Womb , yielded up nature's due , Such a strange Monster then , never man hardly knew , The second part , to the same Tune . F Or it affrighted so , all the whole company , That ever one said in heart , vengeance now draws nigh , It had two faces strange , and two heads painted fair , On the brows curled locks , such as our wantons wear . One hand held right the shape , of a fair Looking-glass , In which I took delight , how my vain beauty was : Right the shape of a Rod scourging me for my since : The other seemed to have , perfectly seen therein . These women's wantonness , and their vain foolish minds , Never contented are with that thing God assigns : Look to it London Dames God keepeth plagues in store , And now the second part of this song shows more . Grief and care kills my heart , where God offended is , As the poor Merchant's wife , did worldly comforts miss : Strange were the misery's that she so long endured , No ease by women's help , could be as then procured . Hereupon speaks the child , with a voice fearfully , Mother , your wanton Pride , brings this your misery : Let your life soon amend , or else the mighty God , Will scourge your wantonness , with a more sharper Rod . About his neck a flaunting Ruff , it had now gallantly , Starched with white and blue , seemly unto the eye : With laces long and broad , as now are women's bans , Thus heavy wanton pride first in Gods anger stands . The breast was plated over , as still the Merchant's be , Now as lewd women wear , to hide adultery : Every part , every limb , had not true nature's frame , But to show to the world this my great since and shame . From the head to the foot , Monsterlike was it born , Every part had the shape of fashions daily worn : On the feet pinked shoes , insteps had Roses read : Which in silk now is used , so vainly are we led . Thus hath my flesh and blood , nourished now near my heart : Puts me in mind of since , and bids me now convert : Oh let all women then , take heed of wanton pride , Angels have fallen from heaven and for that since have died . No sooner brought to light was this fruit of my youth , But to the Counsel-house it was brought for a truth : Where to the Magistrates , in a most fearful sort : Began aloud to speak , and these words did report . I am a Messenger , now sent from God on high , To bid you all repent , Christ coming draws nigh . Repent you all with speed , this is a Message sure , The world seems at and end , and cannot long endure . Pride is the Prince of since , which is our chief delight . Mankind repent with speed , before the Lord does smite ; This is my last adieu , repentance soon provide : These were his latest words , and so the Monster died . Great was the fear of those , that these same speeches herd God grant all Christians may have their minds well prepared With true repentance , Gods mercy to implore , That never womankind may bring such fruit forth more : And you fair English Dams , that in pride do excel , This woeful misery , in your hearts print full well . Let not pride be your guide , for pride will have a fallen Maid and Wife , let my life , be warning to you all . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 