A Looking-Glass for all Impenitent Sinners . That Man that has a Conscience clear , When Death does come , he needs not fear ; But let us live , and Gods Word obey , That we may be saved at the Latter-Day . To the Tune of , My bleeding heart . By Charles Tipping . G Ood Christian People understand , Let us Repent now out of hand , And not to live in such a way , As many do at this present day : There is no truth in many a one , So by that means are all undone . Our sinful lives breeds all this woe , We cannot know a Friend from our Foe : One Neighbour will strive to wrong another , We cannot trust Sister nor Brother : There is no truth , etc There is Cheating and Cozening every day , So by that means we go astray ; They taking of Gods Name in vain , They venture their Souls for worldly gain : there is no truth , etc They'll Jear and Swear , and Curse and Lie , And act their Sins so very high , They think there is no God in Heaven , How shall such sinners be forgiven ? there is no truth , etc So much Drunkenness as now is used , And Gods good Ceature is soar abused ; With hateful Pride , and Malice store , There is no pity to the Poor : there is no truth , etc To see when Love we did embrace , There was no want in any place ; The Poor they need not to complain , Their hungry Bowels to maintain : there is no truth , etc Therefore we need to have a care , To leave our sins , and go to Prayer ; That our Saviour Christ he may be pleased , That our sinful Souls they may be eas [ ' ] worser : there is no truth , etc And not to sleep and snort in since , That's not the way Heaven to win ; But call for Grace , and beg and pray , That God may Guide us night and day : there is no truth , etc But so many cursed Cains there be , That falls a Murdering ; Villainy That dangers Souls and Bodies , sure , The pains of Hell for to endure : there is no truth , etc There's not a since in Sodom named , But here in England it is framed , And used among us it is so , Which fills our Kingdom full of Woe : there is no truth , etc We are told of all Sins , to be sure , Of Gods Ministers , that are so pure ; They tell the Danger we are in , But yet we cannot leave our since : there is no truth , etc Both old and young , both great and small , You see the Danger of us all ; Let's mend our Lives , and call for Grace , Our time is going on apace : there is no truth , etc To live in fear , and have a care , To free us from that wicked Snare ; For Satan with his craftcrafty wile , Men's Fancies oft he does beguile : there is no truth , etc And let us live in Love and Peace , That Charity it may increase ; And true Repentance for our since , That we a New Life may begin : there is no truth , etc Now to conclude what we do Sing , Give Praise to God in every thing ; That he may bring us unto Heaven , That all our Sins may be forgiven : There is no truth in many a one , So by that means are all undone . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . A Looking-Glass for all Impenitent Sinners . That Man that has a Conscience clear , When Death does come , he needs not fear ; But let us live , and Gods Word obey , That we may be saved at the Latter-Day . To the Tune of , My bleeding heart . By Charles Tipping . G Ood Christian People understand , Let us Repent now out of hand , And not to live in such a way , As many do at this present day : There is no truth in many a one , So by that means are all undone . Our sinful lives breeds all this woe , We cannot know a Friend from our Foe : One Neighbour will strive to wrong another , We cannot trust Sister nor Brother : There is no truth , etc There is Cheating and Cozening every day , So by that means we go astray ; They taking of Gods Name in vain , They venture their Souls for worldly gain : there is no truth , etc They'll Jear and Swear , and Curse and Lie , And act their Sins so very high , They think there is no God in Heaven , How shall such sinners be forgiven ? there is no truth , etc So much Drunkenness as now is used , And Gods good Ceature is soar abused ; With hateful Pride , and Malice store , There is no pity to the Poor : there is no truth , etc To see when Love we did embrace , There was no want in any place ; The Poor they need not to complain , Their hungry Bowels to maintain : there is no truth , etc Therefore we need to have a care , To leave our sins , and go to Prayer ; That our Saviour Christ he may be pleased , That our sinful Souls they may be eas [ ' ] worser : there is no truth , etc And not to sleep and snort in since , That's not the way Heaven to win ; But call for Grace , and beg and pray , That God may Guide us night and day : there is no truth , etc But so many cursed Cains there be , That falls a Murdering ; Villainy That dangers Souls and Bodies , sure , The pains of Hell for to endure : there is no truth , etc There's not a since in Sodom named , But here in England it is framed , And used among us it is so , Which fills our Kingdom full of Woe : there is no truth , etc We are told of all Sins , to be sure , Of Gods Ministers , that are so pure ; They tell the Danger we are in , But yet we cannot leave our since : there is no truth , etc Both old and young , both great and small , You see the Danger of us all ; Let's mend our Lives , and call for Grace , Our time is going on apace : there is no truth , etc To live in fear , and have a care , To free us from that wicked Snare ; For Satan with his craftcrafty wile , Men's Fancies oft he does beguile : there is no truth , etc And let us live in Love and Peace , That Charity it may increase ; And true Repentance for our since , That we a New Life may begin : there is no truth , etc Now to conclude what we do Sing , Give Praise to God in every thing ; That he may bring us unto Heaven , That all our Sins may be forgiven : There is no truth in many a one , So by that means are all undone . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . 