The poor men Councillor . OR The Married men Guide . God have blessed thee with a careful wife , [ ? ] ke my directions how to led thy life , [ ? ] oh riches thou do't want yet thou shalt find , Far greater wealth in a contented mind ; Thy honest labour shall thy charge maintain , Being truly god , not by unlawful gain . To the Tune of , The poor men Comfort . C Ome friend if thy leisure permit thee to stay , I'll teach the some precepts the same to obey , Now thou hast betaken thy self to a wife , How thou mayest live happy all days of thy life ; Then take my directions though thou art but poor , I'll learn thee to keep out the wolf from the door . This not all men's fortune great Riches to have , And they that have little have most need to save , For Riches have wings and away they will fly , And leave them forsaken that once was so high , A little is better with peace and content , Then wealth in a bundance in misery spent . The wealth of the world does too much bewitch , And they are too blame that make haste to be rich , For goods ill-gotten like Snowballs will waste , And he that was rich shall be poor at the last ; Therefore be content with a lowly degree , And good will provide for thy Children and thee . If thou haste a wife that is loving and kind , Great comfort in her at all times thou wilt find , What ever betide thee she will bear a share , And help to advice thee in woe and welfare , Then strive not her patience all to provoke , But freely submit to draw both in one yoke . A wife that is froward I do not commend , What thou dost take pains for she'l lavishly spend , And do what thou canst for to humour her still , She'l hold thee in scorn if she want of her will , Make much of thy wife that is loving and chaste , For she will be saving and fearful to waste . Each morning when thou dost thy labour begin , Have God in thy mind it'll keep thee from since , A penny hard earned since it is thy lot , Will do thee more good then a pound that's ill god , Then labour to thrive by the sweat of thy brows , For that's the best way all honest men knows . If God give a blessing that Children you have , The more you must labour in time for to save , And do not you murmer and count them a charge , The better you'll thrive and your stock will enlarge , 'Twill be a great comfort thy Children to see , If that they obedient and dutiful be . Let no man entice thee thy money to waste , Be careful to spare and lay up what thou haste , Whoever shall ask thee , he is not thy friend , To go to the Alehouse thy money to spend , Avoid such bad courses as bring them to want , And thou shalt have plenty when others have scant . Lewd houses and Gaming be sure that thou shun , There's many frequent them and so are undone , By such bad companions a man that's misled May quickly be brought to a morsel of bred , A cup of good liquour at home with they wife , Will cheat up your hearts and prevent further strife . Be courteous and kind to thy Neighbours about And then they will love thee thou needest not to doubt Avoid all contention with strife and debate , For that will procure thee all honest men's hate , Be civil to all men as they are to thee , Then kindly respected thou shurely shalt be . If times do prove hard and money be scant , Then labour for little before thou dost want , A and thankfully take whatsoever God sends , A s times do grow better it will make amends , A dinner of herbs with content serves as well , A s all the rich dainties in which far does excel . When thou for thy labour some moeny hast god , Besure do not spend it in tossing the put , Make haste to thy wife and thy children small , A and that will supply when they for bred do call , 'Twould be a great grief to the while thou dost live To hear thy babes cry and have nothing to give . What ever affliction befall thee or thine , Yet do not thou murmer or seem to repine , For God that hath given thee means to subsist Can take it away whensoever he list , Therefore be contented what ever betide , Submit with all patience and God will provide . Take care to rember what here I have told , A and valve it dearer then silver or Gold , When thou art inclined to wander astray , Perhaps it may bring thee into the right way , A and by thy example all others may be , It's good to be careful and live honestly . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The poor men Councillor . OR The Married men Guide . God have blessed thee with a careful wife , [ ? ] ke my directions how to led thy life , [ ? ] oh riches thou do't want yet thou shalt find , Far greater wealth in a contented mind ; Thy honest labour shall thy charge maintain , Being truly god , not by unlawful gain . To the Tune of , The poor men Comfort . C Ome friend if thy leisure permit thee to stay , I'll teach the some precepts the same to obey , Now thou hast betaken thy self to a wife , How thou mayest live happy all days of thy life ; Then take my directions though thou art but poor , I'll learn thee to keep out the wolf from the door . This not all men's fortune great Riches to have , And they that have little have most need to save , For Riches have wings and away they will fly , And leave them forsaken that once was so high , A little is better with peace and content , Then wealth in a bundance in misery spent . The wealth of the world does too much bewitch , And they are too blame that make haste to be rich , For goods ill-gotten like Snowballs will waste , And he that was rich shall be poor at the last ; Therefore be content with a lowly degree , And good will provide for thy Children and thee . If thou haste a wife that is loving and kind , Great comfort in her at all times thou wilt find , What ever betide thee she will bear a share , And help to advice thee in woe and welfare , Then strive not her patience all to provoke , But freely submit to draw both in one yoke . A wife that is froward I do not commend , What thou dost take pains for she'l lavishly spend , And do what thou canst for to humour her still , She'l hold thee in scorn if she want of her will , Make much of thy wife that is loving and chaste , For she will be saving and fearful to waste . Each morning when thou dost thy labour begin , Have God in thy mind it'll keep thee from since , A penny hard earned since it is thy lot , Will do thee more good then a pound that's ill god , Then labour to thrive by the sweat of thy brows , For that's the best way all honest men knows . If God give a blessing that Children you have , The more you must labour in time for to save , And do not you murmer and count them a charge , The better you'll thrive and your stock will enlarge , 'Twill be a great comfort thy Children to see , If that they obedient and dutiful be . Let no man entice thee thy money to waste , Be careful to spare and lay up what thou haste , Whoever shall ask thee , he is not thy friend , To go to the Alehouse thy money to spend , Avoid such bad courses as bring them to want , And thou shalt have plenty when others have scant . Lewd houses and Gaming be sure that thou shun , There's many frequent them and so are undone , By such bad companions a man that's misled May quickly be brought to a morsel of bred , A cup of good liquour at home with they wife , Will cheat up your hearts and prevent further strife . Be courteous and kind to thy Neighbours about And then they will love thee thou needest not to doubt Avoid all contention with strife and debate , For that will procure thee all honest men's hate , Be civil to all men as they are to thee , Then kindly respected thou shurely shalt be . If times do prove hard and money be scant , Then labour for little before thou dost want , A and thankfully take whatsoever God sends , A s times do grow better it will make amends , A dinner of herbs with content serves as well , A s all the rich dainties in which far does excel . When thou for thy labour some moeny hast god , Besure do not spend it in tossing the put , Make haste to thy wife and thy children small , A and that will supply when they for bred do call , 'Twould be a great grief to the while thou dost live To hear thy babes cry and have nothing to give . What ever affliction befall thee or thine , Yet do not thou murmer or seem to repine , For God that hath given thee means to subsist Can take it away whensoever he list , Therefore be contented what ever betide , Submit with all patience and God will provide . Take care to rember what here I have told , A and valve it dearer then silver or Gold , When thou art inclined to wander astray , Perhaps it may bring thee into the right way , A and by thy example all others may be , It's good to be careful and live honestly . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 