The Maidstone Miracle : OR , THE Strange Kentish Wonder . Being and Account of a Charitable Farmer who , by Divine Providence , had a vast Crop of Corn which grew in a Field which was neither Plowed nor Sowed for several Years , it being looked upon to be a Reward of his Christian Charity , etc To the Tune of , Russel ' s Farewell , etc . W E have a God enthroned above , who does our actions mind , And sends us tokens of his love , we by experience find ; Who ever does the poor relieve , they lend unto the Lord , From whom no doubt they shall receive ; a blessing for reward . Are man shall want a recompense , for acts of charity , Our blessed Lord without offence , works miracles we see ; In order to increase the store , of those whom he will bless , Such who relieved and fed the poor , in times of sad distress . A whealthy yeoman lives in Kent ; and when breadcorn was dear , Unto the poor relief he sent , their drooping hearts to cheer ; Nay he was often herd to say , I'll give one part in five Of my increase , so that I may but keep the poor alive . If all rich farmers far and near , had such a conscience boar , Then corn had never been so dear , for to have starved the poor ; Still as he herd how others raised , his very heart did bleed ; He often said , the Lord be praised , I'm sure there's no such need . So merciful a man was he , such conscience did he make , That when the poor in want he see , he did compassion take ; All grand oppression he refrained , as witness well I can , And as a blessed reward , he gained the love of God and Man. For by a miracle alone , his land this summer boar ; The like before was never known , in any age before ; And so you'll say when you shall hear , what I in brief unfold ; Thousands came flocking far and near , this wonder to behold . Sixteen acers of fallow land , where turnips lately grew , Bears stately corn we understand , both wheat and barley too : It does the best of barley yield , wheat , wry , thick , tall , and strait ; They neither plowed nor sowed this field , yet the increase is great . On many of the stalks appears , to all spectators view , Some twenty , thirty , forty ears , a wonder strange and true ; A vast increase we understand , sent by the Lord above , To grow upon this farmer's land , as pledges of his love . The honest man that owns the ground , where all this corn does grow , He does in charity abound ; the same he will bestow , On those that round about him dwell , who has young children small , For he God's blessings will not fell , the poor shall have it all . Both wheat and wry and barley too , he'll part with to the poor , For he accounts it is their endue , if there was ten times more ; According as they stand in need , he will divide the grain . Since God was pleased to sow the seed , the poor shall reap the gain . A man of greater charity , scarce ever yet was born , Some thousands daily flock to see , his stately field of corn ; All thankful hearts praising the Lord , which does this wonder see , The which was sent as a reward of christian charity . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-corne [ r ] The Maidstone Miracle : OR , THE Strange Kentish Wonder . Being and Account of a Charitable Farmer who , by Divine Providence , had a vast Crop of Corn which grew in a Field which was neither Plowed nor Sowed for several Years , it being looked upon to be a Reward of his Christian Charity , etc To the Tune of , Russel ' s Farewell , etc . W E have a God enthroned above , who does our actions mind , And sends us tokens of his love , we by experience find ; Who ever does the poor relieve , they lend unto the Lord , From whom no doubt they shall receive ; a blessing for reward . Are man shall want a recompense , for acts of charity , Our blessed Lord without offence , works miracles we see ; In order to increase the store , of those whom he will bless , Such who relieved and fed the poor , in times of sad distress . A whealthy yeoman lives in Kent ; and when breadcorn was dear , Unto the poor relief he sent , their drooping hearts to cheer ; Nay he was often herd to say , I'll give one part in five Of my increase , so that I may but keep the poor alive . If all rich farmers far and near , had such a conscience boar , Then corn had never been so dear , for to have starved the poor ; Still as he herd how others raised , his very heart did bleed ; He often said , the Lord be praised , I'm sure there's no such need . So merciful a man was he , such conscience did he make , That when the poor in want he see , he did compassion take ; All grand oppression he refrained , as witness well I can , And as a blessed reward , he gained the love of God and Man. For by a miracle alone , his land this summer boar ; The like before was never known , in any age before ; And so you'll say when you shall hear , what I in brief unfold ; Thousands came flocking far and near , this wonder to behold . Sixteen acers of fallow land , where turnips lately grew , Bears stately corn we understand , both wheat and barley too : It does the best of barley yield , wheat , wry , thick , tall , and strait ; They neither plowed nor sowed this field , yet the increase is great . On many of the stalks appears , to all spectators view , Some twenty , thirty , forty ears , a wonder strange and true ; A vast increase we understand , sent by the Lord above , To grow upon this farmer's land , as pledges of his love . The honest man that owns the ground , where all this corn does grow , He does in charity abound ; the same he will bestow , On those that round about him dwell , who has young children small , For he God's blessings will not fell , the poor shall have it all . Both wheat and wry and barley too , he'll part with to the poor , For he accounts it is their endue , if there was ten times more ; According as they stand in need , he will divide the grain . Since God was pleased to sow the seed , the poor shall reap the gain . A man of greater charity , scarce ever yet was born , Some thousands daily flock to see , his stately field of corn ; All thankful hearts praising the Lord , which does this wonder see , The which was sent as a reward of christian charity . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-corne [ r ] 