The Extravagant YOUTH , OR , And Emblem of PRODIGALITY . Though he was stout , he can't get out , in Trouble he'l remain Youngmen be wise , your freedom prize , Bad company refrain . To the Tune of , King James's Jig ; Or , The Country Farmer . C Ome listen a while and I will relate , My sad and deplorable dismal state . For now I am in a most woeful case , By running this wild and extravagant raze : When Silks and Batting did me adorn , I said that I was most nobly born , Good Counsel I slighted and held it in scorn , But now here behold how I stick in the horn . I gave my self over to e'ry vice ; As courting and sporting with Cards and dice I thought in my heart it would never be day , While I was attired in rich array - With boon Companions I did trade , They counted me a Jocular blade , But now all my Glory is clearly decayed , And into the Horn my self have betrayed . I once kept my Gelding abroad to ride , My hat and my feather , and sword by my side , As long as my pocket was lined with Gold , In pleasure I swam and abroad I rolled : But now no longer can I reign , In sorrowful note I here do complain , And stick in the Horn where I still must remain , And cannot get out if i'de never so fain . My Father he went in a thread bore Coat , And on his old Angels was wont to dote , Which he had obtained by Usury , And now I have spent it as merrily : I called for Wine like a Hector stout , My Golden Guinnies did fly about , I'de revel and rant and keep a fine rout , But now I am in where I cannot get out . I never would take any thought or care , I said that I was my old Father's Heir , My Festival Fellows was Roisterous Boys , We lived in delights with a thousand joys : While we in splendour did abound , Methought the world went merrily round , But since friends & amp ; fortune together hath frowned I stick in the Horn where I still may be found . My Father gave me all his freehold land , And then at my Courtesy he would stand , Oh then thought I thy Silver shan't rust , I'll make it to fly like the Summer's dust , Then did I keep my prancing Nags , Till I had emptied his Golden Bags , My Silks flourished like to a Navy of Flags , But now they are worn and torn to Rags . I mortgaged and sold and I spent so fast , The Miser my Father was vexed at last , To think that I squandreed away such sums , He scratched his ears and he kawed his thumbs : His whole estate was quite decayed , By those vile projects which I have played , Thus I have quite ruined the Usurers trade , And I in the Horn am a sorrowful blade . Now here and Example I must remain , My freedom I never expect again , Young Gallants be warned such ruin shun , Which has both my Father and I undone , All comforts now from us are flown My father in Bedlam makes his moan , And I in the Counter a Prisoner thrown , This horn is a Figure by which it is known . FINIS . This may be Printed R. P . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspur-street . The Extravagant YOUTH , OR , And Emblem of PRODIGALITY . Though he was stout , he can't get out , in Trouble he'l remain Youngmen be wise , your freedom prize , Bad company refrain . To the Tune of , King James's Jig ; Or , The Country Farmer . C Ome listen a while and I will relate , My sad and deplorable dismal state . For now I am in a most woeful case , By running this wild and extravagant raze : When Silks and Batting did me adorn , I said that I was most nobly born , Good Counsel I slighted and held it in scorn , But now here behold how I stick in the horn . I gave my self over to e'ry vice ; As courting and sporting with Cards and dice I thought in my heart it would never be day , While I was attired in rich array - With boon Companions I did trade , They counted me a Jocular blade , But now all my Glory is clearly decayed , And into the Horn my self have betrayed . I once kept my Gelding abroad to ride , My hat and my feather , and sword by my side , As long as my pocket was lined with Gold , In pleasure I swam and abroad I rolled : But now no longer can I reign , In sorrowful note I here do complain , And stick in the Horn where I still must remain , And cannot get out if i'de never so fain . My Father he went in a thread bore Coat , And on his old Angels was wont to dote , Which he had obtained by Usury , And now I have spent it as merrily : I called for Wine like a Hector stout , My Golden Guinnies did fly about , I'de revel and rant and keep a fine rout , But now I am in where I cannot get out . I never would take any thought or care , I said that I was my old Father's Heir , My Festival Fellows was Roisterous Boys , We lived in delights with a thousand joys : While we in splendour did abound , Methought the world went merrily round , But since friends & amp ; fortune together hath frowned I stick in the Horn where I still may be found . My Father gave me all his freehold land , And then at my Courtesy he would stand , Oh then thought I thy Silver shan't rust , I'll make it to fly like the Summer's dust , Then did I keep my prancing Nags , Till I had emptied his Golden Bags , My Silks flourished like to a Navy of Flags , But now they are worn and torn to Rags . I mortgaged and sold and I spent so fast , The Miser my Father was vexed at last , To think that I squandreed away such sums , He scratched his ears and he kawed his thumbs : His whole estate was quite decayed , By those vile projects which I have played , Thus I have quite ruined the Usurers trade , And I in the Horn am a sorrowful blade . Now here and Example I must remain , My freedom I never expect again , Young Gallants be warned such ruin shun , Which has both my Father and I undone , All comforts now from us are flown My father in Bedlam makes his moan , And I in the Counter a Prisoner thrown , This horn is a Figure by which it is known . FINIS . This may be Printed R. P . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspur-street . 