The Traveler's Repentance : OR , THE Deathbed Tears , last Dying-sayings , & amp ; serious Exhortations OF ROBERT GODFREY , Late of Reading in Barkshire , who departed this Life in Lon - dONE , on the 27th of August , and was decently interred in the Parish of St. Mary Aldermanbury , on the 31st of the said Month , in the said City . Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . REturn , return , now , now , I must , From Worldly Pleasures , unto Dust ; For Death the Fatal Stroke will give , I have not many Days to live . OUt of the World I now must go , In melting Sorrow , Grief and Woe ; My latter Minutes now I spend , Knowing I did the Lord offend , BY living here at such a rate , Regarding not a Future State , Till now the Fatal Hand of Death Is come to snatch my Vital Breath . E Lizabeth , my lawful Wife , Come see the Perjod of my Life , And don't revile me when I'm dead , Although a sinful Life I led ; REgard my Dying Words , I pray , If you have any Love this day ; ' Though I have been unkind to thee , Yet let us part in Charity : THis on a Dying-bed I crave ; Deny me not , but let me have The grant of such a small Request ; Oh let me Ashes lie at rest . GOod Lord , to thee I make my moan , Oh mollify his Heart of stone , That with repenting Tears I may Labour to wash my Sins away . ON thee alone I do rely . Be pleased then to cast and eye Of pity on my sad distress , Who does in grief my Sins confess . DAy after Day , Year after Year , I took delight in Folly here . And never thought upon the Grave , The Portion which all Men must have . FRom place to place I traveled still , My Bags with cursed Gold to fill ; In which no Solid Joys I find , For I must leave it all behind . REpentance I regarded not , I laboured for I know not what , Except it was to satisfy A craving Heart and greedy Eye . EVil Society I find Has caused me much grief of mind ; Would I had never been drawn aside From she who is my lawful Bride . YEt never the less , without delay , Upon my Pillow , Night and Day , For all my Sins in Tears I'll grieve , In hope's of Pardon to receive . For God is merciful and just , In him alone I'll put my trust ; He will not leave me comfortless , Although I did his Laws transgress . I'll wrestle for the Blessing still , And then at length perhaps he will Vouchsafe to speak a Word of Peace , Which will my perfect Joys increase . The latter Minutes in my Glass , From Grace to Glory let me pass , The Place of Everlasting Joy , Which Time or Death shall never destroy . You that my Dying Words may hear , Take care and be not too severe In judging me when I am gone , For that belongs to God alone . Farewell the World , my Friends adieu , This Day I take my leave of you ; Then did he turn his Head aside , And , with a sighs or two , he died . In Reading many Years he dwelled , Yet never the less at length he felt The Pangs of Death in London - Town , Within those Walls his Sun went down . His Travels there was at and end ; His Soul to God he did commend , To live in true felicity : I wish none die no worse than he . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The Traveler's Repentance : OR , THE Deathbed Tears , last Dying-sayings , & amp ; serious Exhortations OF ROBERT GODFREY , Late of Reading in Barkshire , who departed this Life in Lon - dONE , on the 27th of August , and was decently interred in the Parish of St. Mary Aldermanbury , on the 31st of the said Month , in the said City . Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . REturn , return , now , now , I must , From Worldly Pleasures , unto Dust ; For Death the Fatal Stroke will give , I have not many Days to live . OUt of the World I now must go , In melting Sorrow , Grief and Woe ; My latter Minutes now I spend , Knowing I did the Lord offend , BY living here at such a rate , Regarding not a Future State , Till now the Fatal Hand of Death Is come to snatch my Vital Breath . E Lizabeth , my lawful Wife , Come see the Perjod of my Life , And don't revile me when I'm dead , Although a sinful Life I led ; REgard my Dying Words , I pray , If you have any Love this day ; ' Though I have been unkind to thee , Yet let us part in Charity : THis on a Dying-bed I crave ; Deny me not , but let me have The grant of such a small Request ; Oh let me Ashes lie at rest . GOod Lord , to thee I make my moan , Oh mollify his Heart of stone , That with repenting Tears I may Labour to wash my Sins away . ON thee alone I do rely . Be pleased then to cast and eye Of pity on my sad distress , Who does in grief my Sins confess . DAy after Day , Year after Year , I took delight in Folly here . And never thought upon the Grave , The Portion which all Men must have . FRom place to place I traveled still , My Bags with cursed Gold to fill ; In which no Solid Joys I find , For I must leave it all behind . REpentance I regarded not , I laboured for I know not what , Except it was to satisfy A craving Heart and greedy Eye . EVil Society I find Has caused me much grief of mind ; Would I had never been drawn aside From she who is my lawful Bride . YEt never the less , without delay , Upon my Pillow , Night and Day , For all my Sins in Tears I'll grieve , In hope's of Pardon to receive . For God is merciful and just , In him alone I'll put my trust ; He will not leave me comfortless , Although I did his Laws transgress . I'll wrestle for the Blessing still , And then at length perhaps he will Vouchsafe to speak a Word of Peace , Which will my perfect Joys increase . The latter Minutes in my Glass , From Grace to Glory let me pass , The Place of Everlasting Joy , Which Time or Death shall never destroy . You that my Dying Words may hear , Take care and be not too severe In judging me when I am gone , For that belongs to God alone . Farewell the World , my Friends adieu , This Day I take my leave of you ; Then did he turn his Head aside , And , with a sighs or two , he died . In Reading many Years he dwelled , Yet never the less at length he felt The Pangs of Death in London - Town , Within those Walls his Sun went down . His Travels there was at and end ; His Soul to God he did commend , To live in true felicity : I wish none die no worse than he . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 