ROBIN HOOD's Chase : Or , A merry Progress between Robin Hood and King Henry : showing how Robin Hood led the King his Chase from London to London ; and when he had taken his leave of the Queen , he returned to merry Sherwood . The Tune is , Robin Hood and the Beggar . C ome you Gallants all , to you I do call , With a heigh down down a down , that now is within this place , For a Song I will sing of Henry the King , how he did bold Robin Hood chase . Queen Katharine she then a match did make with a heigh etc as painly does appear , For three hundred Tun of good read wine and three hundred Tun of Beer . But yet she had her Archers to seek , with a heigh etc with their Bows and Arrows so good , But her mind it was bent with a good intent to send for bold Robin Hood . But when bold Robin Hood he came there , with a heigh & amp ; c . Queen Katherine she did say , Thou art welcome Loxsly , said the Queen , and all thy Yeoman gay . For match of shooting I have made , with a heigh & amp ; c . and thou on my part must be , Rob . If I miss the mark be it light or dark , then hanged will I be . But when the Game it came to be played with a heigh etc bold Robin then drew nigh ; With his mantle of green , most brave to be seen , he let his Arrows fly . And when the Game it ended was , with a heigh etc bold Robin wone it with grace ; But after the King was angry with him , and vowed he would him chase . What though his pardon granted was , with a heigh etc while he with them did stay , But yet the King was vexed at him , when as he had gone his way The Second part to the same Tune . S Oon after the King from the Court did high with a heigh etc in a furious angry mood . And often inquire both far and near after bold Robin Hood . But when the King to Nottingham came , with a heigh & amp ; c . O bold Robin was in the wood ; Come , said he , and let me see who can find me bold Robin Hood . But when bold Rob. Hood he did hear with a heigh etc the King had him in Chase , Then said little John , it's time to be gone , and go to some other place . Then away they went from merry Sherwood with a heigh etc and into Yorkshire he did high ; And the King did follow with a hoop and a hollow , but could not come him nigh Yet jolly Robin he passed along , with a heigh & amp ; c . and went straight to Newcastle Town , And there stayed he hours two or three , and then he for Barwick was gone . When the King he did see how Robin did flee with a heigh etc he was vexed wondrous soar ; With a hoop and a hollow he vowed to follow and take him or never gave over . Come now let's away , than said little John with a heigh etc let any men follow that dare , To Carlile we'll high with our company , and so then to Lancaster . Front Lancaster then to Chester there went with a heigh etc and so did good King Henry ; But Robin away , for he durst not stay , for fear of some treachery . Says Robin , come let us London go , with a heigh etc to see our noble Queen's face , It may be she wants our company , which makes the King so us chase . When Robin he came Q Katherine before , with a heigh etc he fell upon his knee , If it please your Grace , I am come to this place , for to speak with King Henry . Queen Katherine she answered bold Robin again , with a heigh etc the King is gone to merry Sherwood , And when he went to me did say , he would go to seek Robin Hood . Then fare you well my gracious Queen , with a heigh etc for to Sherwood I will high apace , For fain would I see what he'd have with me , if I could but meet with his Grace . But when King Henry he came home , with a heigh etc full weary and vexed in mind ; And that he did hear Robin had been there , he blamed Dame fortune unkind . You are welcome home , Queen Katherine cried , with a heigh etc Henry my Sovereign Liege : Bold Robin Hood that Archer good your person hath been to seek . But when King Henry he did hear with a heigh etc that Robin had been him to seek , This answer he gave , he is a cunning knave , for I have sought him this whole 3 week . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cried , with a heigh etc I beg it here of your Grace , To pardon his life , and seek no more strife , and so endeth Robin Hood is Chase . Printed for William Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . ROBIN HOOD's Chase : Or , A merry Progress between Robin Hood and King Henry : showing how Robin Hood led the King his Chase from London to London ; and when he had taken his leave of the Queen , he returned to merry Sherwood . The Tune is , Robin Hood and the Beggar . C ome you Gallants all , to you I do call , With a heigh down down a down , that now is within this place , For a Song I will sing of Henry the King , how he did bold Robin Hood chase . Queen Katharine she then a match did make with a heigh etc as painly does appear , For three hundred Tun of good read wine and three hundred Tun of Beer . But yet she had her Archers to seek , with a heigh etc with their Bows and Arrows so good , But her mind it was bent with a good intent to send for bold Robin Hood . But when bold Robin Hood he came there , with a heigh & amp ; c . Queen Katherine she did say , Thou art welcome Loxsly , said the Queen , and all thy Yeoman gay . For match of shooting I have made , with a heigh & amp ; c . and thou on my part must be , Rob . If I miss the mark be it light or dark , then hanged will I be . But when the Game it came to be played with a heigh etc bold Robin then drew nigh ; With his mantle of green , most brave to be seen , he let his Arrows fly . And when the Game it ended was , with a heigh etc bold Robin wone it with grace ; But after the King was angry with him , and vowed he would him chase . What though his pardon granted was , with a heigh etc while he with them did stay , But yet the King was vexed at him , when as he had gone his way The Second part to the same Tune . S Oon after the King from the Court did high with a heigh etc in a furious angry mood . And often inquire both far and near after bold Robin Hood . But when the King to Nottingham came , with a heigh & amp ; c . O bold Robin was in the wood ; Come , said he , and let me see who can find me bold Robin Hood . But when bold Rob. Hood he did hear with a heigh etc the King had him in Chase , Then said little John , it's time to be gone , and go to some other place . Then away they went from merry Sherwood with a heigh etc and into Yorkshire he did high ; And the King did follow with a hoop and a hollow , but could not come him nigh Yet jolly Robin he passed along , with a heigh & amp ; c . and went straight to Newcastle Town , And there stayed he hours two or three , and then he for Barwick was gone . When the King he did see how Robin did flee with a heigh etc he was vexed wondrous soar ; With a hoop and a hollow he vowed to follow and take him or never gave over . Come now let's away , than said little John with a heigh etc let any men follow that dare , To Carlile we'll high with our company , and so then to Lancaster . Front Lancaster then to Chester there went with a heigh etc and so did good King Henry ; But Robin away , for he durst not stay , for fear of some treachery . Says Robin , come let us London go , with a heigh etc to see our noble Queen's face , It may be she wants our company , which makes the King so us chase . When Robin he came Q Katherine before , with a heigh etc he fell upon his knee , If it please your Grace , I am come to this place , for to speak with King Henry . Queen Katherine she answered bold Robin again , with a heigh etc the King is gone to merry Sherwood , And when he went to me did say , he would go to seek Robin Hood . Then fare you well my gracious Queen , with a heigh etc for to Sherwood I will high apace , For fain would I see what he'd have with me , if I could but meet with his Grace . But when King Henry he came home , with a heigh etc full weary and vexed in mind ; And that he did hear Robin had been there , he blamed Dame fortune unkind . You are welcome home , Queen Katherine cried , with a heigh etc Henry my Sovereign Liege : Bold Robin Hood that Archer good your person hath been to seek . But when King Henry he did hear with a heigh etc that Robin had been him to seek , This answer he gave , he is a cunning knave , for I have sought him this whole 3 week . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cried , with a heigh etc I beg it here of your Grace , To pardon his life , and seek no more strife , and so endeth Robin Hood is Chase . Printed for William Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . 