Robin Hood and the Tanner . Or , Robin Hood met with his match : A merry and pleasant Song , relating the gallant and fierce Combat , fought between Arthur Bland a Tanner of Nottingham , and Robin Hood , the greatest Archer in England . Tune is , Robin Hood and the Stranger . I N Nottingham there lives a jolly Tanner , with hey down down a down down , his name is Arthur a Bland . There is never a Squire in Nottinghamshire , dare bid bold Arthur to stand . With a long Pikestaff upon his shoulder , with a heigh , etc so well he can clear his way ; By two and by three he makes them to flee , for he hath no list to stay . And as he went forth on a Summer's morning , with heigh , into the Forest of merry Sherwood , To view the read Deer that range here and there , there met he with bold Robin Hood . As soon as bold Robin Hood de did him espy , with heigh , etc he thought some sport he would make , Therefore out of hand he bid him to stand , and thus to him he did spoke , Why what art thou bold fellow , with heigh , etc that ranges so boldly here ? Insooth to be brief thou lookest like a thief that comes to steal the Kings Dear : If thou be'st a keeper in this Forest ; with heigh , etc the King puts me in trust , To look to his Deer that range here and there , therefore stay thee I must . If thou be'st a keeper in this Forest ; with heigh , etc and hast such a great command ; Then thou must have more partakers in store , before thou makest me to stand . Nay , I have no more partakers in store , with heigh , etc nor any that I do need ? But I have a Staff of and other Oak graft I know it will do the deed . For thy sword and thy Bow I care not a straw , with heigh , etc nor all thy Arrows to boot : If thou get a knock upon thy bore scop , thou canst as well shite as shoot . Speak cleanly , speak cleanly , said jolly Robin , with heigh , etc and give better terms to me , Else i'll thee correct for thy neglect , and make thee more mannerly . Marry gip with a were nion , quod Arthur a Bland , with a heigh , etc art thou such a goodly man ? I care not a fig for thy looking so big , mend thou thy self if thou can . Then Robin Hood he unbuckled his belt , with a heigh , etc and threw it upon the ground : Says I have a staff of another Oak graft that is both strong and found But let me measure , said jolly R obin , with a heigh , etc since thou wilt not yield to mine : For I have a staff of another Oak graft , not half a foot longer then thine , But let me measure , said jolly Robin , with heigh , etc before we begin our fray : For i'll have mine no longer then thine , for that will be counted foul play : I Pass not for length bold Arthur replied , with a heigh down down down down , my Staff is of Oak so free : Eight foot and a half , it will knock down a Calf , and I hope it will knock down thee . Then Robin Hood could no longer forbear , with a heigh , etc he gave him such a knock : Quickly and soon the blood came down , before it was ten a clock . Then Arthur soon recovered himself , with a heigh , etc and gave him such a knock on the Crown That from every hair of bold Robins head , the blood came trickling down . Then Robin Hood raved like a wild Boar , with a heigh , etc as soon as he saw his own blood : Then Bland he was in a haste , he laid on so fast , as though he had been stacking of wood . And about and about , & amp ; about they went , with a heigh , etc like two wild Boars in a Chase : Striving to aim each other to maim , Leg , Arm , or any place . And knock for knock they lustily dealt , with a heigh , etc which held two hours and more : That all the wood rang at every bang , they plied their work so soar . Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said R obin Hood , with a heigh , etc and let our quarrel fallen : For here we may thrash our bones to mash , and get no Coin at all . And in the Forest of merry Sherwood , with heigh , etc hereafter thou shalt be free : God-a-mercy for nought , my freedom I've bought I may thank my good staff and not thee What tradesman art thou , said jolly R obin with a heigh , etc good fellow I prithee me show : And also me tell in what place thou dost dwell , for both these fain would I know . I am a Tanner bold Arthur replied , with a heigh . etc in Nottingham long have I wrought : And if thou come there , I vow and do swear , I will tan thy hide for nought : God-a-mercy good fellow , said jolly R obin , with a heigh , etc since thou art so kind to me : And if thou wilt tan my hide for nought , I will do as much for thee . But if thou wilt forsake thy Tanners Trade , with a heigh , etc and live in the green Wood with me : C 4 My name is Robin Hood , I swear by the wood , I will give thee both gold and fee . If thou be Robin Hood , bold Arthur replied , with a heigh , etc as I think well thou art : Then here's my hand my names Arthur Bland we two will never depart . But tell me Oh tell me , where is little John with a heigh , etc of him fain would I hear : For we are allied by the mother's side , and he is my kinsman near . Then R obin Hood blew on his bugle horn , with a heigh , etc he blew both loud and shrill : But quickly anon appeared little john , come tripping over the hill . O what is the matter then said little john with a heigh , etc Master I pray you me tell : Why do you stand with the staff in your hand I fear all is not well . O man I do stand and he makes me to stand with a heigh , etc the Tanner that stands thee beside He is a bonny blade and a Master of his Trade , for soundly he hath taned my hide . He is to be commended then said little john , with a heigh , etc if such a feat he can do , If he be so stout we will have about , and he shall tan my hide too . Hold thy hand hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc for as I do understand , He is a Yeoman good , and of thy own blood , for his name is Arthur a Bland . Then little john threw his staff away , with a heigh , etc as far as he could it fling : And ran out of hand to Arthur a Bland , and about his neck did cling . With loving respect , there was no neglect , with a heigh , etc they was neither nice nor coy : Each other did face with a lovely grace , and both did weep for joy . Then Robin Hood took them both by the hand , with a heigh , etc and danced about the Oak tree : For three merry men and three merry men , and three merry men we be . And ever hereafter as long as we live ; with a heigh , etc we three will be all sa one , The Wood shall ring , and the old Wife sing , of Roin Hood , Arthur and John. FINIS . London , Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Robin Hood and the Tanner . Or , Robin Hood met with his match : A merry and pleasant Song , relating the gallant and fierce Combat , fought between Arthur Bland a Tanner of Nottingham , and Robin Hood , the greatest Archer in England . Tune is , Robin Hood and the Stranger . I N Nottingham there lives a jolly Tanner , with hey down down a down down , his name is Arthur a Bland . There is never a Squire in Nottinghamshire , dare bid bold Arthur to stand . With a long Pikestaff upon his shoulder , with a heigh , etc so well he can clear his way ; By two and by three he makes them to flee , for he hath no list to stay . And as he went forth on a Summer's morning , with heigh , into the Forest of merry Sherwood , To view the read Deer that range here and there , there met he with bold Robin Hood . As soon as bold Robin Hood de did him espy , with heigh , etc he thought some sport he would make , Therefore out of hand he bid him to stand , and thus to him he did spoke , Why what art thou bold fellow , with heigh , etc that ranges so boldly here ? Insooth to be brief thou lookest like a thief that comes to steal the Kings Dear : If thou be'st a keeper in this Forest ; with heigh , etc the King puts me in trust , To look to his Deer that range here and there , therefore stay thee I must . If thou be'st a keeper in this Forest ; with heigh , etc and hast such a great command ; Then thou must have more partakers in store , before thou makest me to stand . Nay , I have no more partakers in store , with heigh , etc nor any that I do need ? But I have a Staff of and other Oak graft I know it will do the deed . For thy sword and thy Bow I care not a straw , with heigh , etc nor all thy Arrows to boot : If thou get a knock upon thy bore scop , thou canst as well shite as shoot . Speak cleanly , speak cleanly , said jolly Robin , with heigh , etc and give better terms to me , Else i'll thee correct for thy neglect , and make thee more mannerly . Marry gip with a were nion , quod Arthur a Bland , with a heigh , etc art thou such a goodly man ? I care not a fig for thy looking so big , mend thou thy self if thou can . Then Robin Hood he unbuckled his belt , with a heigh , etc and threw it upon the ground : Says I have a staff of another Oak graft that is both strong and found But let me measure , said jolly R obin , with a heigh , etc since thou wilt not yield to mine : For I have a staff of another Oak graft , not half a foot longer then thine , But let me measure , said jolly Robin , with heigh , etc before we begin our fray : For i'll have mine no longer then thine , for that will be counted foul play : I Pass not for length bold Arthur replied , with a heigh down down down down , my Staff is of Oak so free : Eight foot and a half , it will knock down a Calf , and I hope it will knock down thee . Then Robin Hood could no longer forbear , with a heigh , etc he gave him such a knock : Quickly and soon the blood came down , before it was ten a clock . Then Arthur soon recovered himself , with a heigh , etc and gave him such a knock on the Crown That from every hair of bold Robins head , the blood came trickling down . Then Robin Hood raved like a wild Boar , with a heigh , etc as soon as he saw his own blood : Then Bland he was in a haste , he laid on so fast , as though he had been stacking of wood . And about and about , & amp ; about they went , with a heigh , etc like two wild Boars in a Chase : Striving to aim each other to maim , Leg , Arm , or any place . And knock for knock they lustily dealt , with a heigh , etc which held two hours and more : That all the wood rang at every bang , they plied their work so soar . Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said R obin Hood , with a heigh , etc and let our quarrel fallen : For here we may thrash our bones to mash , and get no Coin at all . And in the Forest of merry Sherwood , with heigh , etc hereafter thou shalt be free : God-a-mercy for nought , my freedom I've bought I may thank my good staff and not thee What tradesman art thou , said jolly R obin with a heigh , etc good fellow I prithee me show : And also me tell in what place thou dost dwell , for both these fain would I know . I am a Tanner bold Arthur replied , with a heigh . etc in Nottingham long have I wrought : And if thou come there , I vow and do swear , I will tan thy hide for nought : God-a-mercy good fellow , said jolly R obin , with a heigh , etc since thou art so kind to me : And if thou wilt tan my hide for nought , I will do as much for thee . But if thou wilt forsake thy Tanners Trade , with a heigh , etc and live in the green Wood with me : C 4 My name is Robin Hood , I swear by the wood , I will give thee both gold and fee . If thou be Robin Hood , bold Arthur replied , with a heigh , etc as I think well thou art : Then here's my hand my names Arthur Bland we two will never depart . But tell me Oh tell me , where is little John with a heigh , etc of him fain would I hear : For we are allied by the mother's side , and he is my kinsman near . Then R obin Hood blew on his bugle horn , with a heigh , etc he blew both loud and shrill : But quickly anon appeared little john , come tripping over the hill . O what is the matter then said little john with a heigh , etc Master I pray you me tell : Why do you stand with the staff in your hand I fear all is not well . O man I do stand and he makes me to stand with a heigh , etc the Tanner that stands thee beside He is a bonny blade and a Master of his Trade , for soundly he hath taned my hide . He is to be commended then said little john , with a heigh , etc if such a feat he can do , If he be so stout we will have about , and he shall tan my hide too . Hold thy hand hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc for as I do understand , He is a Yeoman good , and of thy own blood , for his name is Arthur a Bland . Then little john threw his staff away , with a heigh , etc as far as he could it fling : And ran out of hand to Arthur a Bland , and about his neck did cling . With loving respect , there was no neglect , with a heigh , etc they was neither nice nor coy : Each other did face with a lovely grace , and both did weep for joy . Then Robin Hood took them both by the hand , with a heigh , etc and danced about the Oak tree : For three merry men and three merry men , and three merry men we be . And ever hereafter as long as we live ; with a heigh , etc we three will be all sa one , The Wood shall ring , and the old Wife sing , of Roin Hood , Arthur and John. FINIS . London , Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 