A Proper New Ballad of Bold Robin Hood . Showing his B irth , his B reeding his Valour and Marriage , at Titbery B ull-Running : Calculated for the Meridian of Staffordshire , but may serve for Derby-shire or Kent . K Ind Gentlemen , will you be patient a while , I , and then you shall hear anon , A very good Ballad of bold Robin H ood and of his Man brave little John. In Locksly Town in merry Nottinghamshire , in merry sweet Locksly Town ; There bold Robin H ood he was born & amp ; was bred , bold Robin of famous renown . The father of Robin a forester was , and he shot in a lusty long bow , Two North-Country miles and and inch at a shot as the Pinder of Wakefield does know . For he brought Adam B ell , and Clim of the C lugh , with William a Clowdel lee : To shoot with our forester for forty mark , and the forester beatrice they all three . His mother was Niece to the Coventry Knight , which Warwickshire men call Sir Guy ; For he slew the blue boar that hangs up at that gate , or mine Host of the Bull tells a lie . Her Brother was Gamwel of great Gamwel - Hall , and a noble Housekeeper was he , Ay as ever broke Bred in sweet Nottinghamshire , and a Squire of a famous degree . This mother of Robin said to her Husband , my Honey , my Love and my Dear ; Let Robin and I ride this morning to Gamwel , to taste of my Brother's good Cheer . And he said , I grant thee thy boon gentle Joan , take one of my Horses I pray : [ The Sun is a rising , and therefore make haste , for to morrow is Christmas-day . ] Then Robin H oods father's grey Gelding was brought and Saddled and Bridled was he , God-wot his blue Bonnet , his new suit of clothes and a Cloak that did reach to his knee . She god on her Holiday Kirtle and Gown , they were of a light Lincoln green : The cloth was home spun , but for colour & amp ; make it might a beseemed our Queen . And then Robin god on his Basket-hilt Sword , and Dagger on his tother side : And said my dear Mother lets haste to be gone , we have forty long miles to ride . When Robin had mounted this Gelding so grey , his father without any trouble ; Set her up behind him , and bade her not fear , for his Gelding has oft carried double . When she was seated , they road to their neighbours and drank and shook hands with them all : And then Robin galloped and never gave over till they lighted at great Gamwel - H all . And now you may think the right worshipful Squire was joyful his Sister to see ; For he kissed her & amp ; kissed her , & amp ; swore a great Oath , thou art welcome kind Sister to me . To morrow when Mass had been said in the Chapel six tables were covered in the Hall ; And in comes the Squire and makes a short speech it was , Neighbours you're Welcome all . But not a Man here shall taste my March-beer till a Christmass-Carrol be sung ; Then all clapped their Hands & amp ; they shouted & amp ; sung till the Hall and the Parlour did ring . Now Mustard & amp ; Braun , Roast-Beef & amp ; Plumb-pies , were set upon every table : And noble George Gamwel said eat & amp ; be merry and Drink to as long as you're able . When Dinner was ended his Chaplain said grace , and be merry my friends says the Squire , It rains & amp ; it blows but call for more ale , and lay some more Wood on the fire . And now call you little John hither to me for little John is a fine Lad ; At Gambols & amp ; Juggling & amp ; twenty such tricks , as shall make you both merry & amp ; glad . When little John came to Gambols they went , both Gentlemen , Yeoman & amp ; Clown ; And what do you think ? Why as true as I live bold Robin H ood put them all down . And now you may think the right worshipful squire was joyful this sighed for to see ; For he said Cousin Robin thou'st go no more home but tarry & amp ; dwell here with me . Thou shalt have my Land when I die , & amp ; till then thou shalt be the staff of my Age : [ Then grant me my boon dear Uncle , said Robin that Little John my be my Page . ] And he said kind Cozen I grant me thy boon , with all my heart so let it be , Then come hither little John , said Robin H ood , come hither my Page unto me . Go and fetch my bow my longest long bow , and broad Arrows one two & amp ; three ; For when it's fair Weather we'll into Sherwood some merry pastime to see . When Robin H ood came into merry Sherwood he winded his bugle so clear ; And twice five & amp ; twenty good Yeoman & amp ; bold , before Robin H ood did appear . Where are your Companions all ? ( said R . Hood ) for still I want forty and three : Then said a bold Yeoman , lo yonder they stand , all under a green wood tree . As that word was spoken Clorinda came by , the Queen of the Shepherd's was she : And her Gown was of Velvet as green as the grass and her Buskin's did reach to her knee . Her gate it was graceful , her Body was straight , and her Countenance free from Pride : A Bow in her Hand and Quiver of Arrows , hung dangling by her sweet side . Her Eyebrows were black , I , and so was her hair and her skin was as smooth as glass ; Her Visage spoke wisdom and modesty too , sets with Robin Hood such a Lass. Said Robin Hood , Lady fair whither away ; O whither fair Lady away ? And she made him answer to kill a fat Buck , for to morrow is Tilbury day . Said Robin Hood , Lady fair , wander with me , a little to yonder green Bower : There fit down to rest you ; and you shall be sure of a Brace or a Leaf in and hour . And as we beware going towards the green Bower , two hundred good Bucks we espied : She chosen out the fattest that was in the heard , and she shot him through side & amp ; side . By the faith of my body , said bold Robin H ood , I never saw Woman like thee : And comest thou from East , I or comest thou from West thou needest not beg Venison of me . However along to my Bower you shall go , and taste of a Foresters Meat , And when we came thither we found as good cheer , as any man needs for to eat . For there was hight Venisen , & amp ; Warden-pies cold , Cream clouted wieh Honey Combs plenty . And the Servitors they were beside little John good Yeomen at least four & amp ; twenty . Clorinda said tell me your name gentle Sir ? and he said it's bold Robin H ood , Squire Gamwel's mine Uncle , but all my delight is to dwell in the merry Sherwood . For it's a fine life , & amp ; it's void of all strife , so it's Sir , Clorinda replied : But O said bold Robin how sweet would it be , if Clorinda would be my Bride ? [ She blushed at the motion yet after a pause , said , Yes Sir , and withal my heart ] , Then let us send for a Priest said Robin H ood , and be merry before we do part . But she said It may not be so gentle Sir , for I must be at Tilbury feast : And if Robin H ood will go thither with me , I'll make him the most welcome Guest . Said Robin H ood , reach me that Buck little John for i'll go along with my Dear ; Go bid my good Yeomen kill six brace of bucks , and meet me to morrow just here . Before we had Ridden five Stafford s hire miles , eight Yeomen that were too too bold , Bid Robin Hood Stand and deliver his Buck , a truer Tale never was told , I will not faith , said bold Robin , come John , stand to me and we'll beatrice they all ; Then both drew their Swords and so cut they & amp ; slashed they , that five of the eight did fallen . The three that remained called to Robin for quarter , and pitiful John begged their Lives ; When Johns boon was granted , he gave them good counsel , and so sent them home to their Wives . This Battle was fought near to Titbury Town , when the Bagpipes bathed the Bull : I am King of the Fiddlers , and sware it's a truth , and I call him that doubts it a Gull. For I saw them fighting , and fiddled the while , and Clorinda sung , Heigh derry down : The Bumpkins are beaten put up thy Sword Bob , and now lets dance into the Town . Before we came to it , we herd a strange shouting and all that were in it looked madly ; For some ware a Bull-back , some dancing a Morris , and some singing Arthur-a - B radley . And there we see Thomas oar Justices Clerk , and Marry to whom he was kind : For Tom road before her and called Marry Madam , and kissed her full sweetly behind . And so may your Worships , but we went to dinner , with Thomas , and Marry , and Nan : They all drank a health to Clorinda , and told her , bold Robin Hood was a fine Man. When Dinner was ended Sir Roger the Parson of Dubbridge , was sent for in haste ; He brought his Mass-Book , and he had them take hands and he joyn'dA Proper New Ballad of Bold Robin Hood . Showing his B irth , his B reeding his Valour and Marriage , at Titbery B ull-Running : Calculated for the Meridian of Staffordshire , but may serve for Derby-shire or Kent . K Ind Gentlemen , will you be patient a while , I , and then you shall hear anon , A very good Ballad of bold Robin H ood and of his Man brave little John. In Locksly Town in merry Nottinghamshire , in merry sweet Locksly Town ; There bold Robin H ood he was born & amp ; was bred , bold Robin of famous renown . The father of Robin a forester was , and he shot in a lusty long bow , Two North-Country miles and and inch at a shot as the Pinder of Wakefield does know . For he brought Adam B ell , and Clim of the C lugh , with William a Clowdel lee : To shoot with our forester for forty mark , and the forester beatrice they all three . His mother was Niece to the Coventry Knight , which Warwickshire men call Sir Guy ; For he slew the blue boar that hangs up at that gate , or mine Host of the Bull tells a lie . Her Brother was Gamwel of great Gamwel - Hall , and a noble Housekeeper was he , Ay as ever broke Bred in sweet Nottinghamshire , and a Squire of a famous degree . This mother of Robin said to her Husband , my Honey , my Love and my Dear ; Let Robin and I ride this morning to Gamwel , to taste of my Brother's good Cheer . And he said , I grant thee thy boon gentle Joan , take one of my Horses I pray : [ The Sun is a rising , and therefore make haste , for to morrow is Christmas-day . ] Then Robin H oods father's grey Gelding was brought and Saddled and Bridled was he , God-wot his blue Bonnet , his new suit of clothes and a Cloak that did reach to his knee . She god on her Holiday Kirtle and Gown , they were of a light Lincoln green : The cloth was home spun , but for colour & amp ; make it might a beseemed our Queen . And then Robin god on his Basket-hilt Sword , and Dagger on his tother side : And said my dear Mother lets haste to be gone , we have forty long miles to ride . When Robin had mounted this Gelding so grey , his father without any trouble ; Set her up behind him , and bade her not fear , for his Gelding has oft carried double . When she was seated , they road to their neighbours and drank and shook hands with them all : And then Robin galloped and never gave over till they lighted at great Gamwel - H all . And now you may think the right worshipful Squire was joyful his Sister to see ; For he kissed her & amp ; kissed her , & amp ; swore a great Oath , thou art welcome kind Sister to me . To morrow when Mass had been said in the Chapel six tables were covered in the Hall ; And in comes the Squire and makes a short speech it was , Neighbours you're Welcome all . But not a Man here shall taste my March-beer till a Christmass-Carrol be sung ; Then all clapped their Hands & amp ; they shouted & amp ; sung till the Hall and the Parlour did ring . Now Mustard & amp ; Braun , Roast-Beef & amp ; Plumb-pies , were set upon every table : And noble George Gamwel said eat & amp ; be merry and Drink to as long as you're able . When Dinner was ended his Chaplain said grace , and be merry my friends says the Squire , It rains & amp ; it blows but call for more ale , and lay some more Wood on the fire . And now call you little John hither to me for little John is a fine Lad ; At Gambols & amp ; Juggling & amp ; twenty such tricks , as shall make you both merry & amp ; glad . When little John came to Gambols they went , both Gentlemen , Yeoman & amp ; Clown ; And what do you think ? Why as true as I live bold Robin H ood put them all down . And now you may think the right worshipful squire was joyful this sighed for to see ; For he said Cousin Robin thou'st go no more home but tarry & amp ; dwell here with me . Thou shalt have my Land when I die , & amp ; till then thou shalt be the staff of my Age : [ Then grant me my boon dear Uncle , said Robin that Little John my be my Page . ] And he said kind Cozen I grant me thy boon , with all my heart so let it be , Then come hither little John , said Robin H ood , come hither my Page unto me . Go and fetch my bow my longest long bow , and broad Arrows one two & amp ; three ; For when it's fair Weather we'll into Sherwood some merry pastime to see . When Robin H ood came into merry Sherwood he winded his bugle so clear ; And twice five & amp ; twenty good Yeoman & amp ; bold , before Robin H ood did appear . Where are your Companions all ? ( said R . Hood ) for still I want forty and three : Then said a bold Yeoman , lo yonder they stand , all under a green wood tree . As that word was spoken Clorinda came by , the Queen of the Shepherd's was she : And her Gown was of Velvet as green as the grass and her Buskin's did reach to her knee . Her gate it was graceful , her Body was straight , and her Countenance free from Pride : A Bow in her Hand and Quiver of Arrows , hung dangling by her sweet side . Her Eyebrows were black , I , and so was her hair and her skin was as smooth as glass ; Her Visage spoke wisdom and modesty too , sets with Robin Hood such a Lass. Said Robin Hood , Lady fair whither away ; O whither fair Lady away ? And she made him answer to kill a fat Buck , for to morrow is Tilbury day . Said Robin Hood , Lady fair , wander with me , a little to yonder green Bower : There fit down to rest you ; and you shall be sure of a Brace or a Leaf in and hour . And as we beware going towards the green Bower , two hundred good Bucks we espied : She chosen out the fattest that was in the heard , and she shot him through side & amp ; side . By the faith of my body , said bold Robin H ood , I never saw Woman like thee : And comest thou from East , I or comest thou from West thou needest not beg Venison of me . However along to my Bower you shall go , and taste of a Foresters Meat , And when we came thither we found as good cheer , as any man needs for to eat . For there was hight Venisen , & amp ; Warden-pies cold , Cream clouted wieh Honey Combs plenty . And the Servitors they were beside little John good Yeomen at least four & amp ; twenty . Clorinda said tell me your name gentle Sir ? and he said it's bold Robin H ood , Squire Gamwel's mine Uncle , but all my delight is to dwell in the merry Sherwood . For it's a fine life , & amp ; it's void of all strife , so it's Sir , Clorinda replied : But O said bold Robin how sweet would it be , if Clorinda would be my Bride ? [ She blushed at the motion yet after a pause , said , Yes Sir , and withal my heart ] , Then let us send for a Priest said Robin H ood , and be merry before we do part . But she said It may not be so gentle Sir , for I must be at Tilbury feast : And if Robin H ood will go thither with me , I'll make him the most welcome Guest . Said Robin H ood , reach me that Buck little John for i'll go along with my Dear ; Go bid my good Yeomen kill six brace of bucks , and meet me to morrow just here . Before we had Ridden five Stafford s hire miles , eight Yeomen that were too too bold , Bid Robin Hood Stand and deliver his Buck , a truer Tale never was told , I will not faith , said bold Robin , come John , stand to me and we'll beatrice they all ; Then both drew their Swords and so cut they & amp ; slashed they , that five of the eight did fallen . The three that remained called to Robin for quarter , and pitiful John begged their Lives ; When Johns boon was granted , he gave them good counsel , and so sent them home to their Wives . This Battle was fought near to Titbury Town , when the Bagpipes bathed the Bull : I am King of the Fiddlers , and sware it's a truth , and I call him that doubts it a Gull. For I saw them fighting , and fiddled the while , and Clorinda sung , Heigh derry down : The Bumpkins are beaten put up thy Sword Bob , and now lets dance into the Town . Before we came to it , we herd a strange shouting and all that were in it looked madly ; For some ware a Bull-back , some dancing a Morris , and some singing Arthur-a - B radley . And there we see Thomas oar Justices Clerk , and Marry to whom he was kind : For Tom road before her and called Marry Madam , and kissed her full sweetly behind . And so may your Worships , but we went to dinner , with Thomas , and Marry , and Nan : They all drank a health to Clorinda , and told her , bold Robin Hood was a fine Man. When Dinner was ended Sir Roger the Parson of Dubbridge , was sent for in haste ; He brought his Mass-Book , and he had them take hands and he joined them in Marriage full fast . And then as bold Robin Hood , and his sweet Bride went hand in hand to the green Bower ; The birds sung with pleasure in merry Sherwood , and 'twas a most joyful hour . And when Robin came in the sighed of his Bower , where are my Yeomen , said he , And little John answered , lo yonder they stand , all under a Greenwood Tree . Then a Garland they brought her by two & amp ; by two and placed them upon the B rides bed : The Music struck up , and we all fell to dance , till the B ride and the Groom were a bed . And what they did there must be counsel to me , because they lay long the next day . [ And ] I had haste home , but I god a good piece , of the Bride-Cake , and so came away . Now out alas , I had forgotten to tell you , that married they were with a King , And so will Nan Knight , or be buried a maiden , and now let us pray for the King . That he may get Children , and they may get more , to govern and do us some good : And then I'll make Ballads in R. Hoods Bower , and sing they in merry Sherwood . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , at the Sta - tioners-Arms , in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little-Old-Baily . them in Marriage full fast . And then as bold Robin Hood , and his sweet Bride went hand in hand to the green Bower ; The birds sung with pleasure in merry Sherwood , and 'twas a most joyful hour . And when Robin came in the sighed of his Bower , where are my Yeomen , said he , And little John answered , lo yonder they stand , all under a Greenwood Tree . Then a Garland they brought her by two & amp ; by two and placed them upon the B rides bed : The Music struck up , and we all fell to dance , till the B ride and the Groom were a bed . And what they did there must be counsel to me , because they lay long the next day . [ And ] I had haste home , but I god a good piece , of the Bride-Cake , and so came away . Now out alas , I had forgotten to tell you , that married they were with a King , And so will Nan Knight , or be buried a maiden , and now let us pray for the King . That he may get Children , and they may get more , to govern and do us some good : And then I'll make Ballads in R. Hoods Bower , and sing they in merry Sherwood . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , at the Sta - tioners-Arms , in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little-Old-Baily . 