Robin Hood & amp ; the Beggar . Showing how Robin Hood and the Beggar fought , and how he changed clothes with the Beggar , and how he went a begging to Nottingham , and how he saved three Brothers from being Hanged , for stealing of the King's Deer . To the Tune , of Robin Hood and the Stranger . C Ome light and listen you Gentlemen all , with a heigh down , down and a down , That mirth do I love for to hear , and a Story true i'll tell unto you , If that you will but draw near . In elder times when merriment was , with a heigh , etc And Archery was held good , there was and Outlaw , as many did know , Which Men called Robin Hood . Upon a time it chanced so , with a heigh , etc Bold Robin was merrily disposed , his time to spend , he did intend , Either with friend or Foe . Then he god up on a gallant Steed , with a heigh , etc The which was worth Angels ten , with Mantle of green , most brave to be seen , He left all his merry men . And riding towards brave Nottingham , with a heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy , there was he aware of a jolly Beggar , As ever he beheld with his eye . And old patched Coat the Beggar had on , with a heigh , etc Which he daily did use to wear ; and many a bag , about him did wag , Which made Robin Hood to him repair . God speed , God speed , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc What Country Man ? tell unto me , I am Yorkshire Sir , but ever you go far , Some Charity give unto me . Why what would thou have ? said R. Hood , with a heigh , etc I pray the tell unto me ; no Lands nor Livings , the beggar he said But a penny for Charity . I have no money , said Robin Hood then with a heigh , etc But a ranger in the wood , I am and Outlaw , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . But yet I must tell thee bonny Beggar , with a heigh , etc That a bout with thee I must try , thy Coat of Gray , lay down I say ; And my Mantle of Green shall lie by . The second Part , to the same Tune : C Ontent , content , the Beggar he said , with a heigh , etc Thy part it will be the worse , for I hope this bout to give thee the rout , And then have at thy Purse . The Beggar he had a muckle long staff , with a heigh , etc And Robin had a nutbrown Sword , so the Beggar drew nigh , & amp ; at Rob. let fly But he gave him never a word . Fight on , fight on , said Robin Hood then with a heigh , etc This Game well pleases me , for every blow that Robin did give , The Beggar gave buffets three . And fighting there full hardy and soar , with a heigh , etc Not far from Nottingham Town , they never fled , till from Robins head , The blood came trickling down . O hold thy hand , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc And thou and I will agree , If it be true the Beggar he said , Thy Mantle come give unto me . Nay a change , a change , cried Robin Hood with a heigh , etc Thy Bags and coat give me , and this Mantle of mine , i'll to thee resign , My Horse and my bravery . When R obin had god the Beggars clothes , with a heigh , etc He looked round about , methink said he , I seem to be , A Beggar brave and stout . For now I have a bag for my bred , with a heigh , etc So have I another for Corn , I have one for Malt , and another for salt , And one for my little Horn . And now I will a begging go , with a heigh , etc Some Charity for to find . and if any more of Robin you'll know , In the Second Part it's behind . N Owe Robin he is to Nottingham gone , with a heigh , etc With his bags hanging down to his knee , his staff and his coat , scarce worth a groat , Yet merrily passed he . As Robin he passed the streets along , with a heigh , etc He herd a pitiful cry , three Brothers dear , as he did hear , Condemned were to die . Then Robin he hied to the Sherffs , with a heigh , etc Some relief for to seek , he skipped and he leapt , and capored full high As he went along the street . But when to the Sheriff's door he came , with a heigh , etc He met a Gentleman fine and brave , thou beggar said he , come tell unto me , What is't that thou wouldst have ? No meat nor drink , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc That I come here to crave , but to beg the lives of Yeomen three , And that I fain would have . That cannot be , thou bold Beggar , with a heigh , etc Their Fact it is so clear , I tell to thee , hanged they must be , For stealing of the Kings Deer . But when to the Gallows they did come , with a heigh , etc There was many a weeping eye , hold your peace said Robin Hood then For certainly they shall not die . Then Robin he set his horn to his Mouth , with a heigh , etc And blew but blasts three , till and hundred bold Archers brave , Came kneeling down on their knee . What is your Will , Master , they said , with a heigh , etc We are at your command , shoot East , shoot West , said Robin then , And look that you spare no man . Then they shot East , and they shot West , with a heigh , etc Their Arrows were so keen , the Sheriff he , and his company , No longer must he seen . Then he stepped to these Brothers three , with a heigh , etc And away he has them taken , but the sheriff was crossed , & amp ; many men lost That dead lay on the Plain . Away they went into the merry green wood with a heigh , etc And sung with a merry glee , then Robin Hood took these Brothers good To be of his Yeomanry . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ . ] Robin Hood & amp ; the Beggar . Showing how Robin Hood and the Beggar fought , and how he changed clothes with the Beggar , and how he went a begging to Nottingham , and how he saved three Brothers from being Hanged , for stealing of the King's Deer . To the Tune , of Robin Hood and the Stranger . C Ome light and listen you Gentlemen all , with a heigh down , down and a down , That mirth do I love for to hear , and a Story true i'll tell unto you , If that you will but draw near . In elder times when merriment was , with a heigh , etc And Archery was held good , there was and Outlaw , as many did know , Which Men called Robin Hood . Upon a time it chanced so , with a heigh , etc Bold Robin was merrily disposed , his time to spend , he did intend , Either with friend or Foe . Then he god up on a gallant Steed , with a heigh , etc The which was worth Angels ten , with Mantle of green , most brave to be seen , He left all his merry men . And riding towards brave Nottingham , with a heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy , there was he aware of a jolly Beggar , As ever he beheld with his eye . And old patched Coat the Beggar had on , with a heigh , etc Which he daily did use to wear ; and many a bag , about him did wag , Which made Robin Hood to him repair . God speed , God speed , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc What Country Man ? tell unto me , I am Yorkshire Sir , but ever you go far , Some Charity give unto me . Why what would thou have ? said R. Hood , with a heigh , etc I pray the tell unto me ; no Lands nor Livings , the beggar he said But a penny for Charity . I have no money , said Robin Hood then with a heigh , etc But a ranger in the wood , I am and Outlaw , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . But yet I must tell thee bonny Beggar , with a heigh , etc That a bout with thee I must try , thy Coat of Gray , lay down I say ; And my Mantle of Green shall lie by . The second Part , to the same Tune : C Ontent , content , the Beggar he said , with a heigh , etc Thy part it will be the worse , for I hope this bout to give thee the rout , And then have at thy Purse . The Beggar he had a muckle long staff , with a heigh , etc And Robin had a nutbrown Sword , so the Beggar drew nigh , & amp ; at Rob. let fly But he gave him never a word . Fight on , fight on , said Robin Hood then with a heigh , etc This Game well pleases me , for every blow that Robin did give , The Beggar gave buffets three . And fighting there full hardy and soar , with a heigh , etc Not far from Nottingham Town , they never fled , till from Robins head , The blood came trickling down . O hold thy hand , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc And thou and I will agree , If it be true the Beggar he said , Thy Mantle come give unto me . Nay a change , a change , cried Robin Hood with a heigh , etc Thy Bags and coat give me , and this Mantle of mine , i'll to thee resign , My Horse and my bravery . When R obin had god the Beggars clothes , with a heigh , etc He looked round about , methink said he , I seem to be , A Beggar brave and stout . For now I have a bag for my bred , with a heigh , etc So have I another for Corn , I have one for Malt , and another for salt , And one for my little Horn . And now I will a begging go , with a heigh , etc Some Charity for to find . and if any more of Robin you'll know , In the Second Part it's behind . N Owe Robin he is to Nottingham gone , with a heigh , etc With his bags hanging down to his knee , his staff and his coat , scarce worth a groat , Yet merrily passed he . As Robin he passed the streets along , with a heigh , etc He herd a pitiful cry , three Brothers dear , as he did hear , Condemned were to die . Then Robin he hied to the Sherffs , with a heigh , etc Some relief for to seek , he skipped and he leapt , and capored full high As he went along the street . But when to the Sheriff's door he came , with a heigh , etc He met a Gentleman fine and brave , thou beggar said he , come tell unto me , What is't that thou wouldst have ? No meat nor drink , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc That I come here to crave , but to beg the lives of Yeomen three , And that I fain would have . That cannot be , thou bold Beggar , with a heigh , etc Their Fact it is so clear , I tell to thee , hanged they must be , For stealing of the Kings Deer . But when to the Gallows they did come , with a heigh , etc There was many a weeping eye , hold your peace said Robin Hood then For certainly they shall not die . Then Robin he set his horn to his Mouth , with a heigh , etc And blew but blasts three , till and hundred bold Archers brave , Came kneeling down on their knee . What is your Will , Master , they said , with a heigh , etc We are at your command , shoot East , shoot West , said Robin then , And look that you spare no man . Then they shot East , and they shot West , with a heigh , etc Their Arrows were so keen , the Sheriff he , and his company , No longer must he seen . Then he stepped to these Brothers three , with a heigh , etc And away he has them taken , but the sheriff was crossed , & amp ; many men lost That dead lay on the Plain . Away they went into the merry green wood with a heigh , etc And sung with a merry glee , then Robin Hood took these Brothers good To be of his Yeomanry . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ . ] 