A pleasant new Ballad of King Edward the fourth , and a Tanner of Tamworth , as he road a Hunting with his Nobles to Drayton-Basset . To and Excellent New Tune . I N Summer time when leaves grow green , and Birds were singing one every tree , King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see : Our King he would a hunting ride , by eight a Clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , come riding on the way : A good Russet Coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his Chin , And under him a good Cowhide and a Mare of four shilling Now stand you here my good Lords all , under this trusty Tree And I will weened to yonder fellow , to know from whence came he : God speed , God speed , then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow quoth he , Which is the way to Draytonbassett , I pray thee show to me : The ready way to Draton-basset , from this place as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to thou must turn up on thy right hand . That is not the way then said our King , the ready way I pray thee show to me , Whethe [ r ] thou be a Thief or true man , quod the Tanner , i'm a weary of thy Company . Away with a vengeance , quoth the Tanner ; I hold thee out of thy wit For all this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet : Go with me to Draytonbassett , said our King no dainties we will lack We'll have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay the shot . God-a-mercy for nothing , said the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine , I have more Groats and Nobles in my purse then thou hast pence in thine . God save your goods , then said our King , and send them well to thee , Be Thief or true man , said the Tanner , I am weary of thy Company . Away with a vengeance ( quoth the Tanner ) of thee I stand in fear The Apparel thou wearest on thy back , may seem a good Lord to wear : I never stole them said our King ; I swear to thee by the rood , Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou ridest in the midst of the Wood . What news dost thou hear , then said our King I pray thee what news dost thou hear , I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cowhides be dear . C Owe hides , Cow hides , [ then said our King , ] I marvel what they be : Why art thou a Fool ? quoth the Tanner look I have one under me : Yet one thing now I would thee pray so that thou wouldst not be strange , I thy Mare be better than my Steed , I pray thee let us change . But if thou needs with me will cahnge , as change full well may you ? By the faith of my body , quoth the Tanner , I look to have some boot of thee . What boot will you have then said our King , what boot does thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpennies , said the Tanner , but a Noble in Gold so round . Here's twenty groats , then said our King , so well paid see you be , I love thee better than I did before , I thought thou hadst never a penny . But if so be thou needs must change , as change thou my'st abide , Though thou hast got Brock my Mare , thou shalt not have my Cowhide . The Tanner took the good Cowhide that of the Cow was hilt , And threw it upon the Kings Saddle , that was so fairly gilded . Now help me up , quoth the Tanner , full quick that I were gone , And when I come home to Gillian my wife , she'l say I am a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the Leg , he girted a fart so round , You're very comely , said the King , were I aware I had laid you ot'h ground . When the Tanner was in the Kings Saddle , astonished then he was , He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were Gold or Brass : But when the steed saw the black Cow tale wag , and eke the Black-Cow-horn , The Steed began to run away , as if the Devil the Tanner had born , Until he came unto a nook , a little beside and Oak , The Steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost broke : Take thy Horse again with a vengeanc he said , with me he shall not abide . [ It is no marvel said the King and laughed , ] he knew not your Cowhide . But if that we need must change , as change well now we might , I'll swear to you plain if you have my Mare , I look to have some boot . What boot will you ask ? ( quoth the Tanner ) what boot will you ask on this ground ? No pence nor no halfpennies said our King , but a Noble in Gold so round . Here's twenty good groats said the Tanner , and twenty more I have of thine , I have ten groats more in my Purse , we'll drink five of them at the Wine . The King set a Bugle Horn to his mouth and blew both loud and shrill , And five hundered Lords and Knights , came riding over a Hill. Away with avengeance quoth the Tanner , which thee i'll no longer abide , Thou art a strong Thief , yonder be thy fellows , they steal away my Cowhide : No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be , They be the Lords of Drayton-Basset , come out of the North-Country . But when they came before the King , full low they fell on their knee , The Tanner had rather than a thousand pound , he had been out of his Company , A Collar , a Collar , then said the King , a Collar then did he cry , Then would he give a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh . A Collar , a Collar , quoth the Tanner , it is a thing will breed sorrow , For after a Collar comes a Halter , and I shall be hanged to morrow . No do not fear the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown to me , No collar nor Halter thou shalt have , but I will give thee a Fee : For Plumpton park I will give thee , with Tenements three beside , Which is worth three hundred pounds a year , to maintain thy good Cowhide . God-a-mercy , God-a-mrcy quoth the Tanner , for this good deed thou hast done , If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth thou shalt have Clout Leather for thy shoes . Printed for J . Wright , J . Clarke , W . Thackeray , and TO . Passenger . A pleasant new Ballad of King Edward the fourth , and a Tanner of Tamworth , as he road a Hunting with his Nobles to Drayton-Basset . To and Excellent New Tune . I N Summer time when leaves grow green , and Birds were singing one every tree , King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see : Our King he would a hunting ride , by eight a Clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , come riding on the way : A good Russet Coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his Chin , And under him a good Cowhide and a Mare of four shilling Now stand you here my good Lords all , under this trusty Tree And I will weened to yonder fellow , to know from whence came he : God speed , God speed , then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow quoth he , Which is the way to Draytonbassett , I pray thee show to me : The ready way to Draton-basset , from this place as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to thou must turn up on thy right hand . That is not the way then said our King , the ready way I pray thee show to me , Whethe [ r ] thou be a Thief or true man , quod the Tanner , i'm a weary of thy Company . Away with a vengeance , quoth the Tanner ; I hold thee out of thy wit For all this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet : Go with me to Draytonbassett , said our King no dainties we will lack We'll have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay the shot . God-a-mercy for nothing , said the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine , I have more Groats and Nobles in my purse then thou hast pence in thine . God save your goods , then said our King , and send them well to thee , Be Thief or true man , said the Tanner , I am weary of thy Company . Away with a vengeance ( quoth the Tanner ) of thee I stand in fear The Apparel thou wearest on thy back , may seem a good Lord to wear : I never stole them said our King ; I swear to thee by the rood , Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou ridest in the midst of the Wood . What news dost thou hear , then said our King I pray thee what news dost thou hear , I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cowhides be dear . C Owe hides , Cow hides , [ then said our King , ] I marvel what they be : Why art thou a Fool ? quoth the Tanner look I have one under me : Yet one thing now I would thee pray so that thou wouldst not be strange , I thy Mare be better than my Steed , I pray thee let us change . But if thou needs with me will cahnge , as change full well may you ? By the faith of my body , quoth the Tanner , I look to have some boot of thee . What boot will you have then said our King , what boot does thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpennies , said the Tanner , but a Noble in Gold so round . Here's twenty groats , then said our King , so well paid see you be , I love thee better than I did before , I thought thou hadst never a penny . But if so be thou needs must change , as change thou my'st abide , Though thou hast got Brock my Mare , thou shalt not have my Cowhide . The Tanner took the good Cowhide that of the Cow was hilt , And threw it upon the Kings Saddle , that was so fairly gilded . Now help me up , quoth the Tanner , full quick that I were gone , And when I come home to Gillian my wife , she'l say I am a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the Leg , he girted a fart so round , You're very comely , said the King , were I aware I had laid you ot'h ground . When the Tanner was in the Kings Saddle , astonished then he was , He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were Gold or Brass : But when the steed saw the black Cow tale wag , and eke the Black-Cow-horn , The Steed began to run away , as if the Devil the Tanner had born , Until he came unto a nook , a little beside and Oak , The Steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost broke : Take thy Horse again with a vengeanc he said , with me he shall not abide . [ It is no marvel said the King and laughed , ] he knew not your Cowhide . But if that we need must change , as change well now we might , I'll swear to you plain if you have my Mare , I look to have some boot . What boot will you ask ? ( quoth the Tanner ) what boot will you ask on this ground ? No pence nor no halfpennies said our King , but a Noble in Gold so round . Here's twenty good groats said the Tanner , and twenty more I have of thine , I have ten groats more in my Purse , we'll drink five of them at the Wine . The King set a Bugle Horn to his mouth and blew both loud and shrill , And five hundered Lords and Knights , came riding over a Hill. Away with avengeance quoth the Tanner , which thee i'll no longer abide , Thou art a strong Thief , yonder be thy fellows , they steal away my Cowhide : No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be , They be the Lords of Drayton-Basset , come out of the North-Country . But when they came before the King , full low they fell on their knee , The Tanner had rather than a thousand pound , he had been out of his Company , A Collar , a Collar , then said the King , a Collar then did he cry , Then would he give a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh . A Collar , a Collar , quoth the Tanner , it is a thing will breed sorrow , For after a Collar comes a Halter , and I shall be hanged to morrow . No do not fear the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown to me , No collar nor Halter thou shalt have , but I will give thee a Fee : For Plumpton park I will give thee , with Tenements three beside , Which is worth three hundred pounds a year , to maintain thy good Cowhide . God-a-mercy , God-a-mrcy quoth the Tanner , for this good deed thou hast done , If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth thou shalt have Clout Leather for thy shoes . Printed for J . Wright , J . Clarke , W . Thackeray , and TO . Passenger . 