Little John and the Four Beggars ; Or , A New merry Song of Robin Hood , and little John , showing how little John went a Begging , and how he fought with four Beggars , and what a prize he god of the four Beggars . To the Tune of , Robin Hood , etc A Ll you that delight to spend some time , with a heigh down down a down , A merry Song to sing , Unto me draw near and you shall hear , how little John went a begging : [ ? ] Robin Hood walked the Forest along with a heigh , etc And all his Yeomandree , Says Robin some of you must a begging go , and little John it must be thee . Says John if I must a Begging go , with a heigh , etc I will have a Palmers weed , With a staff and a Coat , and bags of all sorts , the better then shall I speed . Come give me now a bag for my bred , with a heigh , etc . And another for my Cheese , And one for a penny , when I get any , that nothing I may lose . Now little John is a begging gone , with a heigh , etc . Seeking for some relief , But of all the Beggars he met on the way , little John was the chief . But as he was walking himself alone , with a heigh , etc . Four Beggars he chanced to spy , Some deaf and some blind , and some came behind , says John here's brave company . Good morrow , said John , my Children dear , with a heigh , etc . Good fortune I had you to see , Which way do you go , pray let me know , for I want some company . O what is here to do , then said little John , with a heigh , etc . Why rings all these Bells' , said he , What Dog is a hanging , come let us be ganging , that we the truth may see . Here is no dog hanging , then one of them said , with a heigh , etc . Good fellow we tell unto thee , But here is one dead will give us Cheese and bred , and it may be one single penny . We have brothers in L ondon , another he said , with a heigh , etc . So have we in the Country , In Barwick and Dover , and all the world over , but never a crooked Carill like thee . TO Herefore stand thee back , thou crooked carl , with a heigh , etc . And take that knock on the crown : Nay , said little John , i'll not yet be gone , for a bout will I have with you round . Now have at you all , then said little John , with a heigh , etc . If you be so full of your blows , Fight on all four , and never give over , whither you be friends or foes . John nipped the dumb , and made him to roar , with a heigh , etc . And the Blind that could not see , And he that a Cripple had been seven years , he made them run faster than he . And flinging them all against the wall , with a heigh , etc . With many a sturdy bang , It made John sing , to hear the Gold ring , which against the wall cried twang . Then he god out of the Beggars Cloak , with a heigh , etc . Three hundred pound in Gold ; Good Fortune had I , then said little John , such a good sighed to behold . But what found he in a Beggars Bag , with a heigh , etc . But three hundred pound and three ; If I drink water while this does last , then and ill death may I die . And my begging Trade I now will give over , with a heigh , etc . My fortune it hath been so good , Therefore I'll not stay , but I will away to the Forest of merry Sherwood . But when to the Forest of Sherwood he came , with a heigh , etc . He quickly there did see , His Master good bold Robin Hood , and all his company . What news ? what news ? then said Rob. Hood with a heigh , etc . Come little John tell unto me , How hast thou sped with the Beggars trade , for that I fain would see . No news but good , then said little John , with a heigh , etc . With begging full well I have sped , Six hundred and three I have here for thee , in silver and gold so read . Then Robin Hood took little John by the hand , with a heigh , etc . And danced about the Oak-Tree , If we drink water while this does last , then and ill death may we die . So to conclude my merry new Song , with a heigh , etc . And you that delight to sing , It's of Robin Hood that Archer good , and how little John went a begging . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ . ] Little John and the Four Beggars ; Or , A New merry Song of Robin Hood , and little John , showing how little John went a Begging , and how he fought with four Beggars , and what a prize he god of the four Beggars . To the Tune of , Robin Hood , etc A Ll you that delight to spend some time , with a heigh down down a down , A merry Song to sing , Unto me draw near and you shall hear , how little John went a begging : [ ? ] Robin Hood walked the Forest along with a heigh , etc And all his Yeomandree , Says Robin some of you must a begging go , and little John it must be thee . Says John if I must a Begging go , with a heigh , etc I will have a Palmers weed , With a staff and a Coat , and bags of all sorts , the better then shall I speed . Come give me now a bag for my bred , with a heigh , etc . And another for my Cheese , And one for a penny , when I get any , that nothing I may lose . Now little John is a begging gone , with a heigh , etc . Seeking for some relief , But of all the Beggars he met on the way , little John was the chief . But as he was walking himself alone , with a heigh , etc . Four Beggars he chanced to spy , Some deaf and some blind , and some came behind , says John here's brave company . Good morrow , said John , my Children dear , with a heigh , etc . Good fortune I had you to see , Which way do you go , pray let me know , for I want some company . O what is here to do , then said little John , with a heigh , etc . Why rings all these Bells' , said he , What Dog is a hanging , come let us be ganging , that we the truth may see . Here is no dog hanging , then one of them said , with a heigh , etc . Good fellow we tell unto thee , But here is one dead will give us Cheese and bred , and it may be one single penny . We have brothers in L ondon , another he said , with a heigh , etc . So have we in the Country , In Barwick and Dover , and all the world over , but never a crooked Carill like thee . TO Herefore stand thee back , thou crooked carl , with a heigh , etc . And take that knock on the crown : Nay , said little John , i'll not yet be gone , for a bout will I have with you round . Now have at you all , then said little John , with a heigh , etc . If you be so full of your blows , Fight on all four , and never give over , whither you be friends or foes . John nipped the dumb , and made him to roar , with a heigh , etc . And the Blind that could not see , And he that a Cripple had been seven years , he made them run faster than he . And flinging them all against the wall , with a heigh , etc . With many a sturdy bang , It made John sing , to hear the Gold ring , which against the wall cried twang . Then he god out of the Beggars Cloak , with a heigh , etc . Three hundred pound in Gold ; Good Fortune had I , then said little John , such a good sighed to behold . But what found he in a Beggars Bag , with a heigh , etc . But three hundred pound and three ; If I drink water while this does last , then and ill death may I die . And my begging Trade I now will give over , with a heigh , etc . My fortune it hath been so good , Therefore I'll not stay , but I will away to the Forest of merry Sherwood . But when to the Forest of Sherwood he came , with a heigh , etc . He quickly there did see , His Master good bold Robin Hood , and all his company . What news ? what news ? then said Rob. Hood with a heigh , etc . Come little John tell unto me , How hast thou sped with the Beggars trade , for that I fain would see . No news but good , then said little John , with a heigh , etc . With begging full well I have sped , Six hundred and three I have here for thee , in silver and gold so read . Then Robin Hood took little John by the hand , with a heigh , etc . And danced about the Oak-Tree , If we drink water while this does last , then and ill death may we die . So to conclude my merry new Song , with a heigh , etc . And you that delight to sing , It's of Robin Hood that Archer good , and how little John went a begging . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ . ] 