A True and Perfect R elation of A Horrible Murder , [ C ] omitted by a woman in Golden-lane , on her Neighbour big with - Child , who had borrowed Thirty shillings of her , who is since fled . To the Tune of , The children in the Wood . [ ? ] doleful News which every day [ ? ] ll brings to our ears ; [ ? ] in this World there is no stay , [ ? ] this Tale appears . [ ? ] [ woman ] and late in Golden-Lane , [ ? ] [ tO ] hirty Shillings lend ; [ ? ] woman living near , [ ? ] [ ne ] ighbour and her friend . The woman Money by the week , poor wretch was forced to borrow Of her Rich Neighbour , which did seek to lend it to her sorrow . The Lender first by Small-Cole came unto a fair Estate ; And Money lent unto the Poor , At a most gripping rate . The Second Part , to the same Tune . among the rest , this Neighbour near , did borrow by the week , The sum above , which people fear , caused her Blood to reek . For on a Day she passing by , being full big with Child : The Lender unto her did cry , she was by her beguiled . Hussy , quoth she , what do you mean , my Money not to pay , That thirty shhillings which I lent to you on such a day . Time is expired , and you know , I will no longer trust : Pray Huswife pay me what you owe , i'll make you know you must . This trembling Debtor straight replied , pray say no more , for I Your Debt have never yet denied , nor will not though I die . I never meant you to defeat , you of your Cash with gain : Pray therefore no more words repeat , but from your wrath refrain . This cursed Jew no more replied , but straight made fast the Door : And then began to Rail and bawl , much louder then before . The Debtor like a harmless Sheep , standin [ g ] the while quite mute , This Language had her thunderstruck , and that without dispute . This Monster Lyon-like , commands her Debtor straight to pay : Or else she lets her understand , she never should go away . At this the Debtor quite amazed , suspecting future ill ; Desired for her Infants sake , that she would not her Kill . But this inhumane wretch so vild , with and inhumane Rage ; Falls on the woman big with Child , nought could her wrath assuage . With kicks and blows this creature died within a day or two , And what she suffered no one knows , although the thing be true . The Coroner was sent for straight , to view the Corpse when dead : Manslaughter he did bring it in , the Broaker since is fled . The Sufferer at her latest gasp , affirmed her Child and she By this same Murtheress lost their lives which truly well might be . The Coroner who was her Bail , who for this Fact is fled : Is for the same secured in Goal , for her who now is Dead . God grant all people may abstain such wretched acts as these , And keep us such Deeds to refrain , least Hell our Souls do seize . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A True and Perfect R elation of A Horrible Murder , [ C ] omitted by a woman in Golden-lane , on her Neighbour big with - Child , who had borrowed Thirty shillings of her , who is since fled . To the Tune of , The children in the Wood . [ ? ] doleful News which every day [ ? ] ll brings to our ears ; [ ? ] in this World there is no stay , [ ? ] this Tale appears . [ ? ] [ woman ] and late in Golden-Lane , [ ? ] [ tO ] hirty Shillings lend ; [ ? ] woman living near , [ ? ] [ ne ] ighbour and her friend . The woman Money by the week , poor wretch was forced to borrow Of her Rich Neighbour , which did seek to lend it to her sorrow . The Lender first by Small-Cole came unto a fair Estate ; And Money lent unto the Poor , At a most gripping rate . The Second Part , to the same Tune . among the rest , this Neighbour near , did borrow by the week , The sum above , which people fear , caused her Blood to reek . For on a Day she passing by , being full big with Child : The Lender unto her did cry , she was by her beguiled . Hussy , quoth she , what do you mean , my Money not to pay , That thirty shhillings which I lent to you on such a day . Time is expired , and you know , I will no longer trust : Pray Huswife pay me what you owe , i'll make you know you must . This trembling Debtor straight replied , pray say no more , for I Your Debt have never yet denied , nor will not though I die . I never meant you to defeat , you of your Cash with gain : Pray therefore no more words repeat , but from your wrath refrain . This cursed Jew no more replied , but straight made fast the Door : And then began to Rail and bawl , much louder then before . The Debtor like a harmless Sheep , standin [ g ] the while quite mute , This Language had her thunderstruck , and that without dispute . This Monster Lyon-like , commands her Debtor straight to pay : Or else she lets her understand , she never should go away . At this the Debtor quite amazed , suspecting future ill ; Desired for her Infants sake , that she would not her Kill . But this inhumane wretch so vild , with and inhumane Rage ; Falls on the woman big with Child , nought could her wrath assuage . With kicks and blows this creature died within a day or two , And what she suffered no one knows , although the thing be true . The Coroner was sent for straight , to view the Corpse when dead : Manslaughter he did bring it in , the Broaker since is fled . The Sufferer at her latest gasp , affirmed her Child and she By this same Murtheress lost their lives which truly well might be . The Coroner who was her Bail , who for this Fact is fled : Is for the same secured in Goal , for her who now is Dead . God grant all people may abstain such wretched acts as these , And keep us such Deeds to refrain , least Hell our Souls do seize . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 