A Ballad of the Strange and Wondered Storm of Hail , Which fell in LONDON on the 18 th . of May 1680 , which hurt several men , killed many Birds , and spoiled many Trees ; with other strange Accidents , the like never before known in ENGLAND . To the Tune of , Aim not too High . G Ood Christians all attend unto my Ditty , And you shall hear strange News from London City ; The like before I think you never did hear , Which well may fill our hearts with Dread and Fear . Upon the Eighteenth of this present May , A Tempest strange , pray mind me what I say : So strange , I think the like was never known , As I can hear of yet by any one . Hailstones as big as Eggs a pace down fell , And some much bigger , as I hear some tell : Who took them up as they lay on the ground , And Measured , they were found Eight Inches round . And Fourteen Ounces two of them did Weigh , As one who weighed them unto me did say : It is so strange , and yet so very true , The like before no mortal ever knew . Much mischief by these Hailstones there was done , For in St. Leonard Shorditch there was one Who as he was a dressing Hemp , it's said , All on a sudden he was stricken dead . His Child being by at this was terrified , My Father he is dead , the Child he cried : At this Outcry Neighbours came in amain , And found the man as they supposed slave . Great care was taken by his friends and Wife , All Art they used to bring him unto Life : So that at last they found that he had breath , And God preserved him from that sudden death . He in his Bed in trembling manner lies , A stranger sighed never seen with mortal eyes : His Hat was burned , the Hair scorched off his breast , With Limbs struck lame , full sad to be expressed . The very Fowls that flew up in the Air Were stricken dead , it plainly does appear : Wings from their bodies parted by this Hail , [ S ] Story true , although a dreadful Tale . Trees of their Branches then was stripped quite , Some people from their Houses put to flight : Such Terrors then possessed the hearts of men , The like I hope they'll never see again . Let all good people keep this in their minds , He'l nothing loose who for his Sins repines : For this I fear foreruns some stranger things , And's sent for warning by the King of Kings . Who only knows what there is yet to follow , And when the Grave each sinful man shall swallow Repent in time and fit your selves for Death , Then do not fear how soon you loose your breath . Fitted for Death , you fitter are to Live , Despise not then this counsel which I give : You do not know when Death shall give the stroke , But that once done , your hearts is quickly broke . He that's prepared , grim Death cannot affright , What man does fear what does his heart delight : A Christian true desires Dissolved to be , That he may Live with God Eternally . These things as judgements surely they are sent , That all poor Sinners timely may Repent : Ever vengeance fallen , for then it'll be too late , For to Deplore your Sinful wretched state . But them who boldly say , There is no GOD , Shall surely taste of his sharp scourging Rod : Vengeance shall overtake them ever they know , Into the Pit of Darkness they must go . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Ballad of the Strange and Wondered Storm of Hail , Which fell in LONDON on the 18 th . of May 1680 , which hurt several men , killed many Birds , and spoiled many Trees ; with other strange Accidents , the like never before known in ENGLAND . To the Tune of , Aim not too High . G Ood Christians all attend unto my Ditty , And you shall hear strange News from London City ; The like before I think you never did hear , Which well may fill our hearts with Dread and Fear . Upon the Eighteenth of this present May , A Tempest strange , pray mind me what I say : So strange , I think the like was never known , As I can hear of yet by any one . Hailstones as big as Eggs a pace down fell , And some much bigger , as I hear some tell : Who took them up as they lay on the ground , And Measured , they were found Eight Inches round . And Fourteen Ounces two of them did Weigh , As one who weighed them unto me did say : It is so strange , and yet so very true , The like before no mortal ever knew . Much mischief by these Hailstones there was done , For in St. Leonard Shorditch there was one Who as he was a dressing Hemp , it's said , All on a sudden he was stricken dead . His Child being by at this was terrified , My Father he is dead , the Child he cried : At this Outcry Neighbours came in amain , And found the man as they supposed slave . Great care was taken by his friends and Wife , All Art they used to bring him unto Life : So that at last they found that he had breath , And God preserved him from that sudden death . He in his Bed in trembling manner lies , A stranger sighed never seen with mortal eyes : His Hat was burned , the Hair scorched off his breast , With Limbs struck lame , full sad to be expressed . The very Fowls that flew up in the Air Were stricken dead , it plainly does appear : Wings from their bodies parted by this Hail , [ S ] Story true , although a dreadful Tale . Trees of their Branches then was stripped quite , Some people from their Houses put to flight : Such Terrors then possessed the hearts of men , The like I hope they'll never see again . Let all good people keep this in their minds , He'l nothing loose who for his Sins repines : For this I fear foreruns some stranger things , And's sent for warning by the King of Kings . Who only knows what there is yet to follow , And when the Grave each sinful man shall swallow Repent in time and fit your selves for Death , Then do not fear how soon you loose your breath . Fitted for Death , you fitter are to Live , Despise not then this counsel which I give : You do not know when Death shall give the stroke , But that once done , your hearts is quickly broke . He that's prepared , grim Death cannot affright , What man does fear what does his heart delight : A Christian true desires Dissolved to be , That he may Live with God Eternally . These things as judgements surely they are sent , That all poor Sinners timely may Repent : Ever vengeance fallen , for then it'll be too late , For to Deplore your Sinful wretched state . But them who boldly say , There is no GOD , Shall surely taste of his sharp scourging Rod : Vengeance shall overtake them ever they know , Into the Pit of Darkness they must go . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 