The Life and Death of the Famous Thomas Stukely , And English Gallant in the time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended this life in a Battle of three Kings of Barbary . Tune is King Henries going to Bulloign . I N the West of England , Born there was I understand , a famous gallant was he in his days ; By birth a wealthy Clothiers Son , Deeds of wonders he hath done , to purchase him a long and lasting praise . If I should tell his story , Pride was all his Glory , and lusty Stukely he was called in court He served a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the best , maintaining of himself in gallant sort . Being thus esteemed , And every where well deemed , he gained the favour of a London Dame ; Daughter to and Alderman , Curtie was he called then , to whom a Suitor gallantly he came . When he her person spied , He could not be denied , so brave a Gentleman he was to see ; She was quickly made his wife , In weal or woe to led her life , her father willing thereto did agree . Thus in state and pleasure , Full many days they measure , till cruel death with his regardless spite Boar old Curtis to the Grave , A thing that Stukely wished to have , that he might revel all in Gold so bright . He was no sooner Tombed , But Stukely he presumed to spend a hundred pound a day in waste ; The greatest Gallants in the Land , Had Stukely's Purse at their command , thus merrily the time away he passed . Taverns nad Ordinaries , Were his chiefest braveries , golden Angels there flew up and down , Riots were his best delight , With stately feasting day and night , in Court and City thus he wone renown . Thus wasting Lands and living , By this lawless giving , at last he sold the pavements of the yard , Which covered were with blocks of Tin , Old Curtis left the same to him , which he consumed as you have lately herd . W Hereat his Wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved , make much of me , dear husband she did say , I'll make much more of thee , said he , Then any one shall do verily , i'll fell thy clothes and so i'll go away . Cruelly thus hard hearted , Away from her he parted , and traveled into Italy with speed , There he flourished full many a day , In his silks and rich array , and did the pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the ladies pleasure , To give him Goods and treasure , to maintain him in great pomp and fame , At last came News assuredly , Of a fought battle in Barbary , and he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble gallant , Sold both land and Talent , to follow Stukely in this famous fight , Whereas three Kings in person would , Adventrously with courage bold , within this battle slew them selves in fight . Stukely and his followers all , Of the King of Portugal , had entertainment like to Gentlemen : The King affected Stukly so , That he his secrets all did know , and boar his Royal standard now and then . Upon this day of honour , Each man did show his banner , Morocco and the King of Barbary : Portugal and all his Train , Bravely Glistering on the Plain , and gave the Onset there most valiantly . The Cannons they resounded , Thundering Guns rebounded , kill , kill , then was all the Soldiers cry , Mangled Men lay on the ground , And with blood the earth was drowned , the Sun likewise was darkened in the Sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased ; but tokens of Gods heavy wrath did show , That he was angry at this War , He sent a fearful Blazing Star , whereby the Kings might their misfortunes know . Bloody was the slaughter , Or rather wilful Murder , where sixscore thousand fighting men were slave : Three Kings within this battle died , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , the like will never more be fought again . With woeful arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding , this bloody sacrifice of Souls that day ; He sighing said , I woeful wight , Against my Conscience here do fight , and brought my followers all unto decay . Being thus molested , And with grief oppressed , those Italians that did fell their Lands , With Stukely for to travel forth , And venture life for little worth , upon him all did lay their murdering hands . Unto death thus wounded , His heart with sorrow swooned , and to them he made his heavy moan , Thus have I left my dear , To be so vilely murdered here , e'n in this place whereas I am not known . My Wife I much have wronged , Of what to her belonged , I vainly spent in idle course of life , What I have had is passed I see , And brings nought but grief to me , therefore grant me pardon gentle wife . Life I see consumeth , And death I see presumeth , to change this life of mine into a new , Yet this my greatest comfort brings , I lived and died in love of Kings , and so brave stukely bids the world adieu . Stukelys life thus ended , Was after death befriended , and like a Soldier buried gallantly , Where now their stands upon the Grave , A stately Temple built brave , with Golden Turrets piercing to the Sky . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Life and Death of the Famous Thomas Stukely , And English Gallant in the time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended this life in a Battle of three Kings of Barbary . Tune is King Henries going to Bulloign . I N the West of England , Born there was I understand , a famous gallant was he in his days ; By birth a wealthy Clothiers Son , Deeds of wonders he hath done , to purchase him a long and lasting praise . If I should tell his story , Pride was all his Glory , and lusty Stukely he was called in court He served a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the best , maintaining of himself in gallant sort . Being thus esteemed , And every where well deemed , he gained the favour of a London Dame ; Daughter to and Alderman , Curtie was he called then , to whom a Suitor gallantly he came . When he her person spied , He could not be denied , so brave a Gentleman he was to see ; She was quickly made his wife , In weal or woe to led her life , her father willing thereto did agree . Thus in state and pleasure , Full many days they measure , till cruel death with his regardless spite Boar old Curtis to the Grave , A thing that Stukely wished to have , that he might revel all in Gold so bright . He was no sooner Tombed , But Stukely he presumed to spend a hundred pound a day in waste ; The greatest Gallants in the Land , Had Stukely's Purse at their command , thus merrily the time away he passed . Taverns nad Ordinaries , Were his chiefest braveries , golden Angels there flew up and down , Riots were his best delight , With stately feasting day and night , in Court and City thus he wone renown . Thus wasting Lands and living , By this lawless giving , at last he sold the pavements of the yard , Which covered were with blocks of Tin , Old Curtis left the same to him , which he consumed as you have lately herd . W Hereat his Wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved , make much of me , dear husband she did say , I'll make much more of thee , said he , Then any one shall do verily , i'll fell thy clothes and so i'll go away . Cruelly thus hard hearted , Away from her he parted , and traveled into Italy with speed , There he flourished full many a day , In his silks and rich array , and did the pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the ladies pleasure , To give him Goods and treasure , to maintain him in great pomp and fame , At last came News assuredly , Of a fought battle in Barbary , and he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble gallant , Sold both land and Talent , to follow Stukely in this famous fight , Whereas three Kings in person would , Adventrously with courage bold , within this battle slew them selves in fight . Stukely and his followers all , Of the King of Portugal , had entertainment like to Gentlemen : The King affected Stukly so , That he his secrets all did know , and boar his Royal standard now and then . Upon this day of honour , Each man did show his banner , Morocco and the King of Barbary : Portugal and all his Train , Bravely Glistering on the Plain , and gave the Onset there most valiantly . The Cannons they resounded , Thundering Guns rebounded , kill , kill , then was all the Soldiers cry , Mangled Men lay on the ground , And with blood the earth was drowned , the Sun likewise was darkened in the Sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased ; but tokens of Gods heavy wrath did show , That he was angry at this War , He sent a fearful Blazing Star , whereby the Kings might their misfortunes know . Bloody was the slaughter , Or rather wilful Murder , where sixscore thousand fighting men were slave : Three Kings within this battle died , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , the like will never more be fought again . With woeful arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding , this bloody sacrifice of Souls that day ; He sighing said , I woeful wight , Against my Conscience here do fight , and brought my followers all unto decay . Being thus molested , And with grief oppressed , those Italians that did fell their Lands , With Stukely for to travel forth , And venture life for little worth , upon him all did lay their murdering hands . Unto death thus wounded , His heart with sorrow swooned , and to them he made his heavy moan , Thus have I left my dear , To be so vilely murdered here , e'n in this place whereas I am not known . My Wife I much have wronged , Of what to her belonged , I vainly spent in idle course of life , What I have had is passed I see , And brings nought but grief to me , therefore grant me pardon gentle wife . Life I see consumeth , And death I see presumeth , to change this life of mine into a new , Yet this my greatest comfort brings , I lived and died in love of Kings , and so brave stukely bids the world adieu . Stukelys life thus ended , Was after death befriended , and like a Soldier buried gallantly , Where now their stands upon the Grave , A stately Temple built brave , with Golden Turrets piercing to the Sky . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 