Lord WILLOUGHBY : OR , A true Relation of a famous and bloody Battle fought in Flanders , by the Noble and valiant Lord Willoughby with 1500 English , against forty thousand Spa - niards , where the English obtained a notable Victory , for the glory and renown of our Nation . To the Tune of , Lord Willoughby . TO He fifteenth day of July , with glistering spear and shield , A famous fight in Flanders , was foughten in the field : The most courageous Officers , was English Captains three , But the bravest Man in battle , was brave Lord Willoughby . The next was Captain Norris , a valiant Man was he , The other Captain TO urner , that frm field would never flee : With fifteen hundred fighting men , alas there was no more , They fought with forty thousand then , upon the bloody shore . Stand to it noble Pikemen , and look you round about , And shoot you right you Bowmen , and we will keep them out : You Musquet and Cilliver men , do you prove true to me , I'll be the foremost man in fight , says brave Lord Willoughby . And then the bloody enemy , they fiercely did assail , And fought it out most valiently , not doubting to prevail : The wounded Men on both sides fell most piteous for to see , Yet nothing could the courage quell , of brave Lord Willoughby . For seven hours to all men's view , this fight endured soar , Until our men so feeble grew , that they could fight no more : And then upon dead horses , full savourly they eat , And drank the puddle water , for no better could they get . W Hen they had fed so freely , they kneeled on the ground , And praised God devoutly , for the favour they had found : And bearing up their Colours , the fight they did renew , And turning towards the Spaniard , five thousand more they slew . The sharp steel pointed arrows , and Bullets thick did fly , Then did our valiant Soldiers , charge on most furiously , Which made the Spaniards waver , they thought it best to flee , They feared the stout behaviour , of brave Lord Willoughby . Then quoth the Spanish General , come let us march away , I fear we shall be spoiled all , if that we longer stay : For yonder comes Lord Willoughby , with courage fierce and fell , He will not give one inch of way , for all the Devils in Hell . And then the fearful enemy , was quickly put to flight , Our men persuid courageously , and rout their forces quite : But at last they gave a shout , which echoed through the sky , God and S tO . George for England , the Conquerors did cry . This news was brought to England , with all the speed might be , And told unto our gracious Queen , of this same victory : Oh this is brave Lord Willoughby , my love hath ever wone , Of all the Lords of honour , it's he great deeds hath done , For Soldiers that were maimed , , and wounded in the fray , The Queen allowed a pension , of Eighteenpence a day : Beside all cost and charges , she quit and set them free , And this she did all for the sake , of brave Lord Willoughby . Then courage noble English men , and never be dismayed , If that we be but one to ten , we will not be afraid . To fight with foreign Enemies , and set our Nation free , And thus I end the bloody bout , of brave Lord Willoughby . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Lord WILLOUGHBY : OR , A true Relation of a famous and bloody Battle fought in Flanders , by the Noble and valiant Lord Willoughby with 1500 English , against forty thousand Spa - niards , where the English obtained a notable Victory , for the glory and renown of our Nation . To the Tune of , Lord Willoughby . TO He fifteenth day of July , with glistering spear and shield , A famous fight in Flanders , was foughten in the field : The most courageous Officers , was English Captains three , But the bravest Man in battle , was brave Lord Willoughby . The next was Captain Norris , a valiant Man was he , The other Captain TO urner , that frm field would never flee : With fifteen hundred fighting men , alas there was no more , They fought with forty thousand then , upon the bloody shore . Stand to it noble Pikemen , and look you round about , And shoot you right you Bowmen , and we will keep them out : You Musquet and Cilliver men , do you prove true to me , I'll be the foremost man in fight , says brave Lord Willoughby . And then the bloody enemy , they fiercely did assail , And fought it out most valiently , not doubting to prevail : The wounded Men on both sides fell most piteous for to see , Yet nothing could the courage quell , of brave Lord Willoughby . For seven hours to all men's view , this fight endured soar , Until our men so feeble grew , that they could fight no more : And then upon dead horses , full savourly they eat , And drank the puddle water , for no better could they get . W Hen they had fed so freely , they kneeled on the ground , And praised God devoutly , for the favour they had found : And bearing up their Colours , the fight they did renew , And turning towards the Spaniard , five thousand more they slew . The sharp steel pointed arrows , and Bullets thick did fly , Then did our valiant Soldiers , charge on most furiously , Which made the Spaniards waver , they thought it best to flee , They feared the stout behaviour , of brave Lord Willoughby . Then quoth the Spanish General , come let us march away , I fear we shall be spoiled all , if that we longer stay : For yonder comes Lord Willoughby , with courage fierce and fell , He will not give one inch of way , for all the Devils in Hell . And then the fearful enemy , was quickly put to flight , Our men persuid courageously , and rout their forces quite : But at last they gave a shout , which echoed through the sky , God and S tO . George for England , the Conquerors did cry . This news was brought to England , with all the speed might be , And told unto our gracious Queen , of this same victory : Oh this is brave Lord Willoughby , my love hath ever wone , Of all the Lords of honour , it's he great deeds hath done , For Soldiers that were maimed , , and wounded in the fray , The Queen allowed a pension , of Eighteenpence a day : Beside all cost and charges , she quit and set them free , And this she did all for the sake , of brave Lord Willoughby . Then courage noble English men , and never be dismayed , If that we be but one to ten , we will not be afraid . To fight with foreign Enemies , and set our Nation free , And thus I end the bloody bout , of brave Lord Willoughby . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 