John ARMSTRONG's Last G ood - N ight . [ WORSER ] eclaring how John Armstrong and his eightscore men fought a bloody bout with the Scot - is King at Edinborough . To a pretty new Northern Tune . I S there never a man in all Scotland , from the highest estate , to the lowest degree That can show himself now before the King , Scotland is so full of treachery . Yes there is a man in Westmorland , and Jonny Armstrong they do him call , He has no lands nor Rends coming in , yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has Horse and Harness for them all , and goodly steeds that be milkwhite , With their goodly belts about their Necks , with Hats and Leathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , and with his own hand so tenderly , And hath sent it unto Johnny Armstrong , to come and speak with him speedily . When John he looked this letter upon , good lord he looked as blithe as a bird in a tree , I was never before a King in my life , my father , my grandfather , nor none of us three But seeing we must go before the king , Lord we will go most gallantly , You shall every one have a Velvet Coat , laid down with Golden Laces three . The second P art , to the same Tune . A Nd you shall every one have a scarlet Cloak , laid down with silver laces five , With your golden belts about your necks , with Hats and brave Feathers alike . But when John he went from Giltknock-hall , the wind it blew hard & amp ; full fast it did rain , Now fare thee well thou Giltknock-hall , I fear I shall never see thee again . Now Johnny is to Edenborough gone , with his eightscore men so gallantly , And every one of them on a milkwhite steed , with their bucklers and Swords hanging to their knee . But when John came the King before , with his eightscore men so gallant to see , The King he moved his Bonnet to him , he thought he had been a King as well as he . O pardon , pardon , my Sovereign Liege , pardon for my eightscore men and me , For my name it is Johnny Armstrong , and a subject of yours , my Liege , said he . Away with thee thou false Traitor , no pardon will I grant to thee , But to morrow morning by eight of the clock I will hang up thy eightscore men and thee . Then Johnny looked over his left shoulder , and to his merry men thus said he , I have asked grace of a graceless face , no pardan there is for you or me . Then John pulled out his nutbrown Sword , and it was made of mettle so free , Had not the King moved his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his fair body . Come follow me my merry men all , we will scorn one foot for to fly , It shall never be said we were hung like dogs , we will fight it out so manfully . Then they fought on like Champions bold , for their hearts were sturdy , stout and free . Till they had killed all the Kings good guard , there was none left alive but two or three . But then rose up all Edenborough , they rose up by the thousands three , A cowarly Scot came John behind , and run him thorough the fair body . Said John fight on my merry men all , I am a little wounded but am not slave . I will lay me down for to bleed a while , then I'll rise and fight with you again . Then they fought on like mad men all , till many a man lay dead upon the plain , For they were resolved before they would yield that every man would there be slave . So there they fought courageously , till most of them lay dead there and slave , But little Musgrove that was his Foot-page , with his bonny Grissel god away untain . But when he came to Gilded knock-hall , the Lady spied him presently , What news , what news , thou little Foot-page . what news fom thy Master and his company . My news is bad , Lady he said , which I do bring , as you may see , My Master Johnny Armstrong is slave , and all his gallant company . Yet thou art welcome home my bonny Grissel , full oft thou hast been fed with corn and hay But now thou shalt be fed with bred and wine and thy sides shall be spurred no more I say . O then bespoke his little Son , as he sat on his Nurse's knee , If ever I live to be a man , my father's death revenged shall be . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . John ARMSTRONG's Last G ood - N ight . [ WORSER ] eclaring how John Armstrong and his eightscore men fought a bloody bout with the Scot - is King at Edinborough . To a pretty new Northern Tune . I S there never a man in all Scotland , from the highest estate , to the lowest degree That can show himself now before the King , Scotland is so full of treachery . Yes there is a man in Westmorland , and Jonny Armstrong they do him call , He has no lands nor Rends coming in , yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has Horse and Harness for them all , and goodly steeds that be milkwhite , With their goodly belts about their Necks , with Hats and Leathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , and with his own hand so tenderly , And hath sent it unto Johnny Armstrong , to come and speak with him speedily . When John he looked this letter upon , good lord he looked as blithe as a bird in a tree , I was never before a King in my life , my father , my grandfather , nor none of us three But seeing we must go before the king , Lord we will go most gallantly , You shall every one have a Velvet Coat , laid down with Golden Laces three . The second P art , to the same Tune . A Nd you shall every one have a scarlet Cloak , laid down with silver laces five , With your golden belts about your necks , with Hats and brave Feathers alike . But when John he went from Giltknock-hall , the wind it blew hard & amp ; full fast it did rain , Now fare thee well thou Giltknock-hall , I fear I shall never see thee again . Now Johnny is to Edenborough gone , with his eightscore men so gallantly , And every one of them on a milkwhite steed , with their bucklers and Swords hanging to their knee . But when John came the King before , with his eightscore men so gallant to see , The King he moved his Bonnet to him , he thought he had been a King as well as he . O pardon , pardon , my Sovereign Liege , pardon for my eightscore men and me , For my name it is Johnny Armstrong , and a subject of yours , my Liege , said he . Away with thee thou false Traitor , no pardon will I grant to thee , But to morrow morning by eight of the clock I will hang up thy eightscore men and thee . Then Johnny looked over his left shoulder , and to his merry men thus said he , I have asked grace of a graceless face , no pardan there is for you or me . Then John pulled out his nutbrown Sword , and it was made of mettle so free , Had not the King moved his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his fair body . Come follow me my merry men all , we will scorn one foot for to fly , It shall never be said we were hung like dogs , we will fight it out so manfully . Then they fought on like Champions bold , for their hearts were sturdy , stout and free . Till they had killed all the Kings good guard , there was none left alive but two or three . But then rose up all Edenborough , they rose up by the thousands three , A cowarly Scot came John behind , and run him thorough the fair body . Said John fight on my merry men all , I am a little wounded but am not slave . I will lay me down for to bleed a while , then I'll rise and fight with you again . Then they fought on like mad men all , till many a man lay dead upon the plain , For they were resolved before they would yield that every man would there be slave . So there they fought courageously , till most of them lay dead there and slave , But little Musgrove that was his Foot-page , with his bonny Grissel god away untain . But when he came to Gilded knock-hall , the Lady spied him presently , What news , what news , thou little Foot-page . what news fom thy Master and his company . My news is bad , Lady he said , which I do bring , as you may see , My Master Johnny Armstrong is slave , and all his gallant company . Yet thou art welcome home my bonny Grissel , full oft thou hast been fed with corn and hay But now thou shalt be fed with bred and wine and thy sides shall be spurred no more I say . O then bespoke his little Son , as he sat on his Nurse's knee , If ever I live to be a man , my father's death revenged shall be . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 