A New BALLAD of The Midwives Ghost : Who appeared to several People in the House where she formerly lived in Rotten - Row in Holbourn , London , who were all afraid to speak unto her ; but she grow - ing very Impetuous , on the 16 th . of this Instant March , 1680 , declarred her mind to the Maid of the said House , who with and Unanimous Spirit adhered to her , and afterwards told it to her Mistress , how that if they took up two Tiles by the Fireside , they should find the Bones of Bastard-Children that the said Midwife had 15 years ago Murdered , and that she desired that her Kinswoman Marry should see them decently Buried ; which accordingly they did , and found it as the Maid had said . The Bones are to be seen at the Cheshire-Cheese in said place at this very time , for the satisfaction of those that believes not this Relation . To the Tune of , When Troy Town , etc TO Oh speak of Murders that have been committed in our Sphere of late ; There's none like these I shall declare , by monstrous hand , and cruel Fate : Being acted by a Midwife fell , Which in Scroop-Court of late did dwell . Mistress Atkins she there was called , of Reputation good always ; Till Death did send his piercing Dart , and told her that he could not stay : But she must to the Stigion Lake , For murdering Babes for Parents sake . She seeing now her time was come , most bitterly began to weep ; And lifting up her hands on high , she took a short , not lasting sleep : Six months ago , as I am told , Before she did this same unfold . Therefore not to detain you long to this discourse , I now will press ; Which is a truth assuredly , as many know , and you may guess : When as it's plainly told herein , Whereas their bones are to be seen . The House whereas this Midwife lived , hath very much disturbed been ; With Apparitions very strange , the like whereof hath not been seen : Sometime resembling of her shape , At other times Hells mouth to gape . Which put the people in great fear , that there had taken up abided , Being loath for to disclose the same , for fear expersions they should load On her whom they really thought Could never be to Lewdness brought . But still they daily was oppressed , with dismal shapes , and Lightings strange That by no means they could not rest , being very loath from thence to range : They told some Neighbours secretly , Desiring them their Faith to try . To speak unto this Spirit strange , if that occasion they saw ; But they thereby was daunted quite , and very much was kept in awe : The hair o'their heads standing on end , To see their late Familiar Friend . She finding none that would Reply , importune at last did grow ; A'th 16 th . of this Instant March , unto the Maid revealed her Woe : Who then was by her Mistress sent , To fetch Night-clothes Incontinent . pray Virgin stay , then quoth the [ ? ] , for I to you will do no harm ; And tell Marry whom I love most , that I hereby , her now do charm , Two Tiles by ' that fire up to take , A Board also , and then to make A Burial of what she finds , in decent and most handsome sort ; And let the World to know my Crime , and that I am most sorry fored : Desiring Midwives to take heed , How they dispose their Bastard-breed . She having now revealed her mind , did vanish in a Flash away , And none does know where she's confined , until the General judgement-day : When as she shall the answer make , For what she then did undertake . The Maid at first astonished was , at this which she her self did hear ; And to her Mistress did impart , the same that now I do declare : Concerning of the Murders strange , And did not seem at all to change . Which being thoroughly searched out , accordingly it did appear ; The Maid she spoke of is supposed , to be her kind Kinswoman near : That will fulfil her will , it's said , She being a Religious Maid . Most People they are apt of late , to condemn ( most ) strange things as lies , To ' that Cheshire-Cheese you may repair , for this they will you satisfice : Having the Children's Bones to show , In Holbourn if you do it know . FINIS . London , Printed for T. Vere , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 1680. A New BALLAD of The Midwives Ghost : Who appeared to several People in the House where she formerly lived in Rotten - Row in Holbourn , London , who were all afraid to speak unto her ; but she grow - ing very Impetuous , on the 16 th . of this Instant March , 1680 , declarred her mind to the Maid of the said House , who with and Unanimous Spirit adhered to her , and afterwards told it to her Mistress , how that if they took up two Tiles by the Fireside , they should find the Bones of Bastard-Children that the said Midwife had 15 years ago Murdered , and that she desired that her Kinswoman Marry should see them decently Buried ; which accordingly they did , and found it as the Maid had said . The Bones are to be seen at the Cheshire-Cheese in said place at this very time , for the satisfaction of those that believes not this Relation . To the Tune of , When Troy Town , etc TO Oh speak of Murders that have been committed in our Sphere of late ; There's none like these I shall declare , by monstrous hand , and cruel Fate : Being acted by a Midwife fell , Which in Scroop-Court of late did dwell . Mistress Atkins she there was called , of Reputation good always ; Till Death did send his piercing Dart , and told her that he could not stay : But she must to the Stigion Lake , For murdering Babes for Parents sake . She seeing now her time was come , most bitterly began to weep ; And lifting up her hands on high , she took a short , not lasting sleep : Six months ago , as I am told , Before she did this same unfold . Therefore not to detain you long to this discourse , I now will press ; Which is a truth assuredly , as many know , and you may guess : When as it's plainly told herein , Whereas their bones are to be seen . The House whereas this Midwife lived , hath very much disturbed been ; With Apparitions very strange , the like whereof hath not been seen : Sometime resembling of her shape , At other times Hells mouth to gape . Which put the people in great fear , that there had taken up abided , Being loath for to disclose the same , for fear expersions they should load On her whom they really thought Could never be to Lewdness brought . But still they daily was oppressed , with dismal shapes , and Lightings strange That by no means they could not rest , being very loath from thence to range : They told some Neighbours secretly , Desiring them their Faith to try . To speak unto this Spirit strange , if that occasion they saw ; But they thereby was daunted quite , and very much was kept in awe : The hair o'their heads standing on end , To see their late Familiar Friend . She finding none that would Reply , importune at last did grow ; A'th 16 th . of this Instant March , unto the Maid revealed her Woe : Who then was by her Mistress sent , To fetch Night-clothes Incontinent . pray Virgin stay , then quoth the [ ? ] , for I to you will do no harm ; And tell Marry whom I love most , that I hereby , her now do charm , Two Tiles by ' that fire up to take , A Board also , and then to make A Burial of what she finds , in decent and most handsome sort ; And let the World to know my Crime , and that I am most sorry fored : Desiring Midwives to take heed , How they dispose their Bastard-breed . She having now revealed her mind , did vanish in a Flash away , And none does know where she's confined , until the General judgement-day : When as she shall the answer make , For what she then did undertake . The Maid at first astonished was , at this which she her self did hear ; And to her Mistress did impart , the same that now I do declare : Concerning of the Murders strange , And did not seem at all to change . Which being thoroughly searched out , accordingly it did appear ; The Maid she spoke of is supposed , to be her kind Kinswoman near : That will fulfil her will , it's said , She being a Religious Maid . Most People they are apt of late , to condemn ( most ) strange things as lies , To ' that Cheshire-Cheese you may repair , for this they will you satisfice : Having the Children's Bones to show , In Holbourn if you do it know . FINIS . London , Printed for T. Vere , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 1680. 