The Life and Death of George of OXFORD : To a pleasant New Tune , called , Poor Georgy . A S I went over London Bridge all in a misty morning , There did I see one weep and mourn , lamenting for her Georgy , His time it is past , His life it will not last , Alack and alas ! there is no Remedy , Which makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy George of Oxford is my name , and few there's but have known me , Many a mad prank have I played but now they've overthrown me , My time it is past , etc Oh! then bespoke the Lady Grey , i'll haste me in the morning ; And to the Judge i'll make my way , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , His life else it may cost , Alack and alas ! is there no remedy ? It makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy . Go Saddle me my milkwhite Steed , go Saddle me my bonny , That I may to New-Castle speed , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , etc But when she came the Judge before full low her knee she bent , For Georgy ' s life she did implore , that she might be befriended . His time may be passed , His life else it may cost , Alack and alas ! is there no Remedy ? It makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy O rise , ah rise , fair Lady Grey , your suit cannot be granted ; Content pour self , as well you may , for Georgy must be hanged . His time it is passed etc She wept she wailed she rung her hands and ceased not her mourning ; She offered Gold she offered Lands , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past . etc George's Confession . I Have traveled through the Land , and met with many a man , Sir ; But Knight or Lord I bid him stand he durst not make and answer . But my thread it is spun , My glass is almost run , Alack and alas ! there is no remedy ; Which makes my heart within me Ready to burst in three To die like a Dog , ( says poor Georgy ) The Brittain bold that durst deny his money for to tender , Th'o he were stuot as valiant Guy I forced him to surrender . But now my thread is spun , etc But when the money I had god , and made him cry pecavi , To bear his charge and pay his shot a Mark or Noble gave I . But my thread it is spun , etc The Ladies when they had me seen would never have been affrighted To take a dance upon the Green with Georgy they delighted . But now my thread it is spun , etc When I had ended this our wake and fairly them bespoken , Their rings and jewels would I take to keep for a Token . But now my thread is spun , etc The hue and cry for George is set , a proper handsome fellow , With Diamond-Eyes as black as jet , and Locks like Gold so yellow . His time is past , etc Long it was with all their art , ever they could apprehend him , But at the last his valiant heart no longer could defend him . His time it was passed , etc I never stole Horse nor Mare in my life nor Cloven-foot or any , But once six of the kings white steeeds and I sold them to Bohemia . His time it was passed , etc Georgy he went up the hill , and after followed many , Georgy was hanged in silken string , the like was never any . His time it was passed , His life will not last , Alack and alas ! there is no remedy , etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the Sign of the Golden Ba ll , near the Bear Tavern in Pie Corner [ . ] The Life and Death of George of OXFORD : To a pleasant New Tune , called , Poor Georgy . A S I went over London Bridge all in a misty morning , There did I see one weep and mourn , lamenting for her Georgy , His time it is past , His life it will not last , Alack and alas ! there is no Remedy , Which makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy George of Oxford is my name , and few there's but have known me , Many a mad prank have I played but now they've overthrown me , My time it is past , etc Oh! then bespoke the Lady Grey , i'll haste me in the morning ; And to the Judge i'll make my way , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , His life else it may cost , Alack and alas ! is there no remedy ? It makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy . Go Saddle me my milkwhite Steed , go Saddle me my bonny , That I may to New-Castle speed , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , etc But when she came the Judge before full low her knee she bent , For Georgy ' s life she did implore , that she might be befriended . His time may be passed , His life else it may cost , Alack and alas ! is there no Remedy ? It makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy O rise , ah rise , fair Lady Grey , your suit cannot be granted ; Content pour self , as well you may , for Georgy must be hanged . His time it is passed etc She wept she wailed she rung her hands and ceased not her mourning ; She offered Gold she offered Lands , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past . etc George's Confession . I Have traveled through the Land , and met with many a man , Sir ; But Knight or Lord I bid him stand he durst not make and answer . But my thread it is spun , My glass is almost run , Alack and alas ! there is no remedy ; Which makes my heart within me Ready to burst in three To die like a Dog , ( says poor Georgy ) The Brittain bold that durst deny his money for to tender , Th'o he were stuot as valiant Guy I forced him to surrender . But now my thread is spun , etc But when the money I had god , and made him cry pecavi , To bear his charge and pay his shot a Mark or Noble gave I . But my thread it is spun , etc The Ladies when they had me seen would never have been affrighted To take a dance upon the Green with Georgy they delighted . But now my thread it is spun , etc When I had ended this our wake and fairly them bespoken , Their rings and jewels would I take to keep for a Token . But now my thread is spun , etc The hue and cry for George is set , a proper handsome fellow , With Diamond-Eyes as black as jet , and Locks like Gold so yellow . His time is past , etc Long it was with all their art , ever they could apprehend him , But at the last his valiant heart no longer could defend him . His time it was passed , etc I never stole Horse nor Mare in my life nor Cloven-foot or any , But once six of the kings white steeeds and I sold them to Bohemia . His time it was passed , etc Georgy he went up the hill , and after followed many , Georgy was hanged in silken string , the like was never any . His time it was passed , His life will not last , Alack and alas ! there is no remedy , etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the Sign of the Golden Ba ll , near the Bear Tavern in Pie Corner [ . ] 