THE Unfaithful Servant ; AND The Cruel Husband , Being a perfect and true account of one Judith Brown , who together with her Master John Cupper , conspired the Death of her Mistress , his Wife , which accordingly they did accomplish in the time of Childbed , when she lay in with two Children , by mixing of her Drink with cruel Poison ; for which Fact she received due Sentence of Death at the late Assizes in the County of Salop , to be Burned ; which was accordingly Executed upon the Old Heath near Shrewsbury , on Thursday the Twenty-first day of August , 1684. To the Tune of , The Rich Merchantman : Or , George Barnwel . Y Oung Maidens all beware , that sees my Dismal state , Endeavour now to shun the Snare , before it is too late . I was a Servant Maid , and lived most happily , Until at last I was betrayed , to this Debauchery . Too late I do lament , my very heart does bleed , That ever I did give consent , to that most wicked deed . My yielding to his ways , his wicked base desire , Yea , by that means I end my days , in cruel flames of Fire . Our Sins was at their grow , that none but them we blame , To be indeed the cause we both did end our days in shame . We could not be content , with what we first had done , But afterwards we did invent , in worse extremes to run . Then with my Master I , did take the cause in hand , Resolved my Mistress she should die by our most cruel hand . Her Life we did betray , to satisfy our will . When she alas ! in Childbed lay , poor Soul she thought no ill . Strong poison we contrived this was our hanious since , That she of Life might be deprived pool Soul when she lay in . My conscience strove with me , but I a wicked elf , Desired that my Master he , should give it her himself . But we did disagree , as you may understand , For Conscience would not suffer me to put it in her hand . Though neither he nor I , had power to do this deed , Yet all this would not satisfy , but still we did proceed . In what she was to drink we mixed the poison strong . That she might take it & amp ; not think , the least of any wrong . By which at length she died , and I was left behind , To die a cruel death beside , the horror of my mind . Alas ! you may behold , my sad and dismal doom , Both hands & amp ; heart , and e'ry part , in flames you'll see consume . The Sorrow of my heart , in this extremity , Although it is my due desert , I do for mercy cry . Farewell my wordly Friends , and my offences foul , Good Lord forgive me all my sins , have mercy on my Soul. In this devouring flame , my life must now expire , Alas my sins I needs must blame [ e ] I end my days in fire . To you that come to see , a woeful sinners fallen , Oh let those cruel flames now be , a warning to you all . By me a warning take , and do not run astray , And God will never you forsake , if you his Laws obey . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Unfaithful Servant ; AND The Cruel Husband , Being a perfect and true account of one Judith Brown , who together with her Master John Cupper , conspired the Death of her Mistress , his Wife , which accordingly they did accomplish in the time of Childbed , when she lay in with two Children , by mixing of her Drink with cruel Poison ; for which Fact she received due Sentence of Death at the late Assizes in the County of Salop , to be Burned ; which was accordingly Executed upon the Old Heath near Shrewsbury , on Thursday the Twenty-first day of August , 1684. To the Tune of , The Rich Merchantman : Or , George Barnwel . Y Oung Maidens all beware , that sees my Dismal state , Endeavour now to shun the Snare , before it is too late . I was a Servant Maid , and lived most happily , Until at last I was betrayed , to this Debauchery . Too late I do lament , my very heart does bleed , That ever I did give consent , to that most wicked deed . My yielding to his ways , his wicked base desire , Yea , by that means I end my days , in cruel flames of Fire . Our Sins was at their grow , that none but them we blame , To be indeed the cause we both did end our days in shame . We could not be content , with what we first had done , But afterwards we did invent , in worse extremes to run . Then with my Master I , did take the cause in hand , Resolved my Mistress she should die by our most cruel hand . Her Life we did betray , to satisfy our will . When she alas ! in Childbed lay , poor Soul she thought no ill . Strong poison we contrived this was our hanious since , That she of Life might be deprived pool Soul when she lay in . My conscience strove with me , but I a wicked elf , Desired that my Master he , should give it her himself . But we did disagree , as you may understand , For Conscience would not suffer me to put it in her hand . Though neither he nor I , had power to do this deed , Yet all this would not satisfy , but still we did proceed . In what she was to drink we mixed the poison strong . That she might take it & amp ; not think , the least of any wrong . By which at length she died , and I was left behind , To die a cruel death beside , the horror of my mind . Alas ! you may behold , my sad and dismal doom , Both hands & amp ; heart , and e'ry part , in flames you'll see consume . The Sorrow of my heart , in this extremity , Although it is my due desert , I do for mercy cry . Farewell my wordly Friends , and my offences foul , Good Lord forgive me all my sins , have mercy on my Soul. In this devouring flame , my life must now expire , Alas my sins I needs must blame [ e ] I end my days in fire . To you that come to see , a woeful sinners fallen , Oh let those cruel flames now be , a warning to you all . By me a warning take , and do not run astray , And God will never you forsake , if you his Laws obey . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 