And Excellent Ballad of George Barnwel and Apprentice in Lon - dONE , who was undone by a Strumpet , who thrice Robbed his Master , and Murdered his Uncle in Ludlow . The Tune is , The Merchant . A LL Youths of fair England , that dwell both far and near , Regard my Story that I tell and to my Song give ear : A London Lad I was , a Merchant's Prentice bound , My name George Barnwel , that did spend my Master many a pound . Take heed of Harlots then , and their enticing trains , For by that means I have been brought to hang alive in Chains . As I upon a Day was walking through the street , About my Master's business , I did a wanton meet , A gallant dainty Dame , and sumptuous in attire , With smiling looks she greeted me , and did my name require : Which when I had declared , she gave me then a kiss And said if I would come to her , I should have more than this : In faith my Boy ( quoth she ) such news I can you tell , As shall rejoice thy very heart , then come where I do dwell . Fair Mistress , then said I , if I the place may know , This evening I will be with you , for I abroad must go To gather Moneys in , that is my Master's due , And ever that I do home return , i'll come and visit you . Good Barnwel , then ( quoth she ) do thou to Shoreditch come , And ask for mistress Milwood there , next door unto the Gun. And trust me on my truth , if thou keep touch with me , For thy Friends sake , and as my own heart thou shalt right welcome be . Thus parted we in peace , and home I passed right , Then went abroad and gathered in by six a Clock at night . And hundred pound and one , with Bag under my arm , I went to Mistress Milwoods house , and thought on little harm : And knocking at the door , straightway her self came down , Rustling in most brave attire , her Hood and silken Gown . Who through her beauty bright , so gloriously did shine , That she amazed my dazzling eyes , she seemed so divine . She took me by the hand , and with a modest grace , Welcome sweet Barnwel , then ( quod she , unto this homely place : Welcome ten thousand times , more welcome then my Brother , And better welcome I protest than any one or other : And seeing I have thee found as good as thy word to be , A homely Supper ever thou part , thou shalt take here with me : Oh pardon me ( quoth I ) fair Mistress I you pray , For why , out of my Master's house so long I dare not stay . Alas good Sir she said , are you so strictly tied , You may not with your dearest friend one hour or two abide ? Faith then the case is hard , if it be so ( quoth she ) I would I were a Prentice bound , to live in house with thee . Therefore my sweetest George , list well what I do say , And do not blame a woman much , her fancy to bewray . Let not affections force , be counted lewd desire , Nor think it not immodesty I should thy love require . With that she turned aside , and with a blushing read , A mournful motion she bewrayed , by holding down her head : A Handkerchief she had all wrought with Silk and Gold , Which she to stay her trickling tears , against her eyes did hold . This thing unto my sighed was wondrous rare and strange , And in my mind and inward thoughts it wrought a sudden change : That I so hardy was , to take her by the hand , Saying , sweet Mistress why do you so sad and heavy stand ? Call me no Mistress now , but Sarah thy true friend , Thy servant Sarah honouring thee until her life does end : If thou wouldst here allege thou art in years a Boy , So was Adonis , yet was he fair Venus love and joy . Thus I that never before of woman found such grace , And seeing now so fair a Dame give me a kind embrace . I supped with her that night with joys that did abound , And for the same paid presently , in money twice three pound : And hundred Kisses then , for my farewell she gave , Saying sweet Barnwel when shall I again thy company have : Oh stay not too long my dear , sweet George have me in mind : Her words bewitched my childishness , she uttered them so kind . So that I made a vow , next Sunday without fail . With my sweet Sarah once again to tell some pleasant Tale . When she herd me say so , the tears fell from her eyes , Oh George , quoth she , if thou dost fail , thy Sarah sure will die . Though long , yet lo at last , the appointed day was come , That I must with my Sarah meet , having a mighty sum Of Money in my hand , unto her house went I , Whereas my Love upon her bed in saddest sort did lie , What ails my hearts delight , my Sarah dear , quoth I , Let not my Love lament and grieve , nor sighing pine and die , But tell to me my dearest friend , what may thy woes amend , And thou shalt lack no means of help , though forty pound I spend , With that she turned her head and sickly thus did say , Oh my sweet George my grief is great ten pounds I have to pay Unto a cruel Wretch , and God knows quoth she , I have it not , Tush rise quoth he , and take it here of me : Ten pounds , nor ten times ten shall make my love decay , Then from his Bag into her lap , he cast ten pound straightway . All blithe and pleasant then , to banqueting they go , She proffered him to lie with her , and said it should be so : And after that same time , I have her store of Coin , Yea , sometime fifty pound at once , all which I did purloin . And thus I did pass on , until my Master then , Did call to have his reckoning in cast up among his Men . The which when as I herd , I knew not what to say , For well I knew that I was out two hundred pounds that day . Then from my Master straight I ran in secret sort , And unto Sarah Milwood then my state I did report . But how she used this Youth , in this his extreme need , The which did her necessity so oft with Money feed : The Second Part behold , shall tell it forth at large , And shall a Strumpets wily ways , with all her tricks discharge The Second Part , to the same Tune . H Ere comes young Barnwel unto thee sweet Sarah my delight , I am undone except thou stand my faithful friend this night : Our Master to command accounts , hath just occasion found , And I am found behind the hand almost two hundred pound : And therefore knowing not at all , what answer for to make , And his displeasure to escape , my way to thee I take : Hoping in this extremity , thou wilt my succour be , That for a time I may remain in safety here with thee . With that she nit and bent her brows , and looking all aquoy , Quoth she , what should I have to do with any Prentice Boy ? And seeing you have purloined & amp ; god your Master's goods away , The case is bad , and therefore here I mean thou shalt not stay Why sweet heart thou knowest , he said that all which I did get , I have it and did spend it all upon thee every whit : Thou knowest I loved thee so well , thou couldst not ask the thing , But that I did incontinent the same unto thee bring . Quoth she thou art a paltry Jack , to charge me in this sort , Being a Woman of credit good , and known of good report : A and therefore this I tell thee flat , be packing with good speed , I do defy thee from my heart , and scorn thy filthy deed . I s this the love and friendship which thou didst to me protest ? Is this the great affection which you seemed to express ? Now fie on all deceitful shows , the best is I may speed . To get a Lodging any where , for money in my need : Therefore false woman now farewell , while twenty pound does last , My anchor in some other Haven I will with wisdom cast . When she perceived by his words . that he had money store , That she had gulled him in such sort , it grieved her heart full soar : Therefore to call him back again , she did suppose it best . Stay George quoth she , thou art too quick why man I do but jest ; Thinkest thou for all my passed speech that I would let thee go ? Faith no . quod she , my love to thee I wis is more then so . You will not deal with Prentice boys I herd you even now swear , Therefore I will not trouble you , my George hark in thine ear . Thou shalt not go to night quod she , what chance so ever befall , But man we'll have a bed for thee , or else the Devil take all . Thus I that was with wiles bewitched and shared with fancy still . Had not the power to put away . or to withstand her will . Then wine and wine I called in , and cheer upon good cheer , And nothing in the world I thought for Sarahs love too dear : While I was in her company in joy and merriment , And all too little I did think , that I upon her spent . A fiAn Excellent Ballad of George Barnwel and Apprentice in Lon - dONE , who was undone by a Strumpet , who thrice Robbed his Master , and Murdered his Uncle in Ludlow . The Tune is , The Merchant . A LL Youths of fair England , that dwell both far and near , Regard my Story that I tell and to my Song give ear : A London Lad I was , a Merchant's Prentice bound , My name George Barnwel , that did spend my Master many a pound . Take heed of Harlots then , and their enticing trains , For by that means I have been brought to hang alive in Chains . As I upon a Day was walking through the street , About my Master's business , I did a wanton meet , A gallant dainty Dame , and sumptuous in attire , With smiling looks she greeted me , and did my name require : Which when I had declared , she gave me then a kiss And said if I would come to her , I should have more than this : In faith my Boy ( quoth she ) such news I can you tell , As shall rejoice thy very heart , then come where I do dwell . Fair Mistress , then said I , if I the place may know , This evening I will be with you , for I abroad must go To gather Moneys in , that is my Master's due , And ever that I do home return , i'll come and visit you . Good Barnwel , then ( quoth she ) do thou to Shoreditch come , And ask for mistress Milwood there , next door unto the Gun. And trust me on my truth , if thou keep touch with me , For thy Friends sake , and as my own heart thou shalt right welcome be . Thus parted we in peace , and home I passed right , Then went abroad and gathered in by six a Clock at night . And hundred pound and one , with Bag under my arm , I went to Mistress Milwoods house , and thought on little harm : And knocking at the door , straightway her self came down , Rustling in most brave attire , her Hood and silken Gown . Who through her beauty bright , so gloriously did shine , That she amazed my dazzling eyes , she seemed so divine . She took me by the hand , and with a modest grace , Welcome sweet Barnwel , then ( quod she , unto this homely place : Welcome ten thousand times , more welcome then my Brother , And better welcome I protest than any one or other : And seeing I have thee found as good as thy word to be , A homely Supper ever thou part , thou shalt take here with me : Oh pardon me ( quoth I ) fair Mistress I you pray , For why , out of my Master's house so long I dare not stay . Alas good Sir she said , are you so strictly tied , You may not with your dearest friend one hour or two abide ? Faith then the case is hard , if it be so ( quoth she ) I would I were a Prentice bound , to live in house with thee . Therefore my sweetest George , list well what I do say , And do not blame a woman much , her fancy to bewray . Let not affections force , be counted lewd desire , Nor think it not immodesty I should thy love require . With that she turned aside , and with a blushing read , A mournful motion she bewrayed , by holding down her head : A Handkerchief she had all wrought with Silk and Gold , Which she to stay her trickling tears , against her eyes did hold . This thing unto my sighed was wondrous rare and strange , And in my mind and inward thoughts it wrought a sudden change : That I so hardy was , to take her by the hand , Saying , sweet Mistress why do you so sad and heavy stand ? Call me no Mistress now , but Sarah thy true friend , Thy servant Sarah honouring thee until her life does end : If thou wouldst here allege thou art in years a Boy , So was Adonis , yet was he fair Venus love and joy . Thus I that never before of woman found such grace , And seeing now so fair a Dame give me a kind embrace . I supped with her that night with joys that did abound , And for the same paid presently , in money twice three pound : And hundred Kisses then , for my farewell she gave , Saying sweet Barnwel when shall I again thy company have : Oh stay not too long my dear , sweet George have me in mind : Her words bewitched my childishness , she uttered them so kind . So that I made a vow , next Sunday without fail . With my sweet Sarah once again to tell some pleasant Tale . When she herd me say so , the tears fell from her eyes , Oh George , quoth she , if thou dost fail , thy Sarah sure will die . Though long , yet lo at last , the appointed day was come , That I must with my Sarah meet , having a mighty sum Of Money in my hand , unto her house went I , Whereas my Love upon her bed in saddest sort did lie , What ails my hearts delight , my Sarah dear , quoth I , Let not my Love lament and grieve , nor sighing pine and die , But tell to me my dearest friend , what may thy woes amend , And thou shalt lack no means of help , though forty pound I spend , With that she turned her head and sickly thus did say , Oh my sweet George my grief is great ten pounds I have to pay Unto a cruel Wretch , and God knows quoth she , I have it not , Tush rise quoth he , and take it here of me : Ten pounds , nor ten times ten shall make my love decay , Then from his Bag into her lap , he cast ten pound straightway . All blithe and pleasant then , to banqueting they go , She proffered him to lie with her , and said it should be so : And after that same time , I have her store of Coin , Yea , sometime fifty pound at once , all which I did purloin . And thus I did pass on , until my Master then , Did call to have his reckoning in cast up among his Men . The which when as I herd , I knew not what to say , For well I knew that I was out two hundred pounds that day . Then from my Master straight I ran in secret sort , And unto Sarah Milwood then my state I did report . But how she used this Youth , in this his extreme need , The which did her necessity so oft with Money feed : The Second Part behold , shall tell it forth at large , And shall a Strumpets wily ways , with all her tricks discharge The Second Part , to the same Tune . H Ere comes young Barnwel unto thee sweet Sarah my delight , I am undone except thou stand my faithful friend this night : Our Master to command accounts , hath just occasion found , And I am found behind the hand almost two hundred pound : And therefore knowing not at all , what answer for to make , And his displeasure to escape , my way to thee I take : Hoping in this extremity , thou wilt my succour be , That for a time I may remain in safety here with thee . With that she nit and bent her brows , and looking all aquoy , Quoth she , what should I have to do with any Prentice Boy ? And seeing you have purloined & amp ; god your Master's goods away , The case is bad , and therefore here I mean thou shalt not stay Why sweet heart thou knowest , he said that all which I did get , I have it and did spend it all upon thee every whit : Thou knowest I loved thee so well , thou couldst not ask the thing , But that I did incontinent the same unto thee bring . Quoth she thou art a paltry Jack , to charge me in this sort , Being a Woman of credit good , and known of good report : A and therefore this I tell thee flat , be packing with good speed , I do defy thee from my heart , and scorn thy filthy deed . I s this the love and friendship which thou didst to me protest ? Is this the great affection which you seemed to express ? Now fie on all deceitful shows , the best is I may speed . To get a Lodging any where , for money in my need : Therefore false woman now farewell , while twenty pound does last , My anchor in some other Haven I will with wisdom cast . When she perceived by his words . that he had money store , That she had gulled him in such sort , it grieved her heart full soar : Therefore to call him back again , she did suppose it best . Stay George quoth she , thou art too quick why man I do but jest ; Thinkest thou for all my passed speech that I would let thee go ? Faith no . quod she , my love to thee I wis is more then so . You will not deal with Prentice boys I herd you even now swear , Therefore I will not trouble you , my George hark in thine ear . Thou shalt not go to night quod she , what chance so ever befall , But man we'll have a bed for thee , or else the Devil take all . Thus I that was with wiles bewitched and shared with fancy still . Had not the power to put away . or to withstand her will . Then wine and wine I called in , and cheer upon good cheer , And nothing in the world I thought for Sarahs love too dear : While I was in her company in joy and merriment , And all too little I did think , that I upon her spent . A fig for care and careful thoughts , when all my Gold is hone , I n faith my Girl we will have more , whoever it light upon . My Father's rich , why then , quod I , should I want any Gold ? With a Father indeed , quoth she , a Son may well be bold . I have a Sister richly wed , i'll rob her ever i'll want ; Why then , quod Sarah , they may well consider of your scant . Nay more than this , and Uncle I have at Ludlow he does dwell , He is a Grazier , which in wealth does all the rest excel : Ever I will live in lack , quoth he , and have no Coin for thee , I ' le rob his House , and murder him , why should you not , quoth she : Ever I would want were I a man , or live in poor Estate , On Father , friends , and all my Kin , I would be Talons grate : For without money , George , quod she , a Man is but a Beast , And bringing Money thou shalt be always my chiefest Guest . For say thou shouldst pursued be with twenty Hues and Cries , And with a Warrant searched for with Argus hundred Eyes : Yet in my House thou shalt be safe , such privy ways there be , That if they sought and hundred years they could not find out thee . And so carousing in their Cups , their pleasures to content , George Barnwel had in little space his money wholly spent . Which being done , to Ludlow then he did provide to go , To rob his wealthy Uncle then , his Minion would it so And once or twice he thought to take his Father by the way , But that he thought his master had took order for his stay . WORSER irectly to his U ncle then he rose with might and main , Where with welcome and good cheer he did him entertain : A Sennets space he stayed there , until it chanced so , His U nkle with his Cattle did unto a market go : His Kinsman needs must Ride with him , and when he saw right plain , Great store of money he had took , in coming home again , Most suddenly within a Wood he struck his Uncle down , And beatrice his brains out of his head , so soar he cracked his crown : And fourscore pound in ready coin out of his Purse he took , And coming into London Town , the Country quite forsook . To Sarah Milwood then he came , showing his store of Gold , And how he had his Uncle stain , to her he plainly told . Tush , it's no matter George , quod she , so we the money have , To have good cheer in jolly sort , and deck us fine and brave . And this they lived in filthy sort , till all his store was gone , And means to get them any more , I wis poor George had none . And therefore now in railing sort , she thrust him out of door , Which is the just reward they get , that spend upon a Whore . O do me not this foul disgrace in this my need , quoth he , She called him Thief and Murderer , with all despite might be . And to the Constable she went to have him Apprehended , And showed in each degree how far he had the Law offended . When Barnwel saw her drift , to Sea he god straightway , Where fear & amp ; dread & amp ; conscience sting upon himself does stay : Unto the Mayor of London then , he did a Letter write , Wherein his own and Sarahs faults he did at large recite . Whereby she apprehended was , and then to Ludlow sent , Where she was judged , condemned and hanged , for murder incontinent . And there this gallant Quean did die this was her greatest gains : For Murder in Polonia , was Barnwel hanged in Chains . Lo , here's the end of wilful youth , that after Harlots haunt , Who in the spoil of other men , about the streets do flaunt . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . g for care and careful thoughts , when all my Gold is hone , I n faith my Girl we will have more , whoever it light upon . My Father's rich , why then , quod I , should I want any Gold ? With a Father indeed , quoth she , a Son may well be bold . I have a Sister richly wed , i'll rob her ever i'll want ; Why then , quod Sarah , they may well consider of your scant . Nay more than this , and Uncle I have at Ludlow he does dwell , He is a Grazier , which in wealth does all the rest excel : Ever I will live in lack , quoth he , and have no Coin for thee , I ' le rob his House , and murder him , why should you not , quoth she : Ever I would want were I a man , or live in poor Estate , On Father , friends , and all my Kin , I would be Talons grate : For without money , George , quod she , a Man is but a Beast , And bringing Money thou shalt be always my chiefest Guest . For say thou shouldst pursued be with twenty Hues and Cries , And with a Warrant searched for with Argus hundred Eyes : Yet in my House thou shalt be safe , such privy ways there be , That if they sought and hundred years they could not find out thee . And so carousing in their Cups , their pleasures to content , George Barnwel had in little space his money wholly spent . Which being done , to Ludlow then he did provide to go , To rob his wealthy Uncle then , his Minion would it so And once or twice he thought to take his Father by the way , But that he thought his master had took order for his stay . WORSER irectly to his U ncle then he rose with might and main , Where with welcome and good cheer he did him entertain : A Sennets space he stayed there , until it chanced so , His U nkle with his Cattle did unto a market go : His Kinsman needs must Ride with him , and when he saw right plain , Great store of money he had took , in coming home again , Most suddenly within a Wood he struck his Uncle down , And beatrice his brains out of his head , so soar he cracked his crown : And fourscore pound in ready coin out of his Purse he took , And coming into London Town , the Country quite forsook . To Sarah Milwood then he came , showing his store of Gold , And how he had his Uncle stain , to her he plainly told . Tush , it's no matter George , quod she , so we the money have , To have good cheer in jolly sort , and deck us fine and brave . And this they lived in filthy sort , till all his store was gone , And means to get them any more , I wis poor George had none . And therefore now in railing sort , she thrust him out of door , Which is the just reward they get , that spend upon a Whore . O do me not this foul disgrace in this my need , quoth he , She called him Thief and Murderer , with all despite might be . And to the Constable she went to have him Apprehended , And showed in each degree how far he had the Law offended . When Barnwel saw her drift , to Sea he god straightway , Where fear & amp ; dread & amp ; conscience sting upon himself does stay : Unto the Mayor of London then , he did a Letter write , Wherein his own and Sarahs faults he did at large recite . Whereby she apprehended was , and then to Ludlow sent , Where she was judged , condemned and hanged , for murder incontinent . And there this gallant Quean did die this was her greatest gains : For Murder in Polonia , was Barnwel hanged in Chains . Lo , here's the end of wilful youth , that after Harlots haunt , Who in the spoil of other men , about the streets do flaunt . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 