DISNY's Last Farewell . Being and Account of the Execution of William WORSER isney Esqr , who was Drawn , Hanged , and Quartered , On Monday the 29th of this In - stant June , 1685. For Printing of Monmouth's Treasonable declaration . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . This may be Printed , R. L. S. July the 1st , 1685. Y Ou Loyal Subjects wheresoever you be , See here the Fruits of my Disloyalty ; And let me shameful end a caution give To all , that they in Loyalty may live . My Princes Laws poor I did Disobey , My fancy led the clean contrary way ; And I for Treason am condemned to die , Oh pity me in my extremity . I was a Gentleman by my decent , But to Extravagancy always bent : And my Estate I quickly did consume , But did not think of this my Fatal Doom . Faithless I proved to my Prince and Nation , Printing a most Rebellious Declaration : By which foul Fact I wrought my overthrow , Let all beware that they may not do so . Least like to me you meet with shameful Death , And rigid Fate untimely stop your breath : Then you perhaps may mourn when it's too late And sighs to think of your unhappy Fate . But you that to your Princes prove most true , The powers of Heaven will surely smile on you , You shall be Crowned with Prosperity , And Happiness will sure your portion be . My Head upon the Bridge must surely stand , Because I was a Traitor to my Land : Upon the Gates they'll set my Quarters too , For doing what I was forbid to do . Let all men to their Princes loyal be , And be as Strangers to all Treachery : Then they may rest in quiet and in peace , For by Rebellion comforts do decrease . My Father he was loyal to the Crown , And he thereby did purchase much renown : But hapless I to seek my overthrow , And Death will be my portion I do know . But this does please me in adversity , That other men may warning take by me : And learn their lawful Princes to obey , From Loyalty never to go astray . And he to whom I did allegiance owe , My self and Enemy did plainly show ; I might have Flourished as my parents did , Had I not meddled with the things forbid . I thought my self with Honour for to crown , But from my hope's was quickly tumbled down . Traitors Reward did fallen unto my share , By which I hope all others will beware . Vain World adieu , I must be packing hence , Who proved so false unto my Noble Prince ; Whose goodness to his Subject's well is known , Whose Fame is through all Europe spread & amp ; flown My Crime committed I could not deny , For which I to this place am brought to die , A sad Example to each sad Spectator , Who sees the end of me poor hapless Traitor . Now must I launch into Eternity , Let every tender Soul now pray for me : Eternal bliss or bane I soon shall find , And hope my Saviour will to me be kind . Into whose hands my Soul I recommend And on his merits wholly do depend : Mind well these lines which here are sent to you , And mind how Disney bids the World adieu . FINIS . Entered according to Order . P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . DISNY's Last Farewell . Being and Account of the Execution of William WORSER isney Esqr , who was Drawn , Hanged , and Quartered , On Monday the 29th of this In - stant June , 1685. For Printing of Monmouth's Treasonable declaration . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . This may be Printed , R. L. S. July the 1st , 1685. Y Ou Loyal Subjects wheresoever you be , See here the Fruits of my Disloyalty ; And let me shameful end a caution give To all , that they in Loyalty may live . My Princes Laws poor I did Disobey , My fancy led the clean contrary way ; And I for Treason am condemned to die , Oh pity me in my extremity . I was a Gentleman by my decent , But to Extravagancy always bent : And my Estate I quickly did consume , But did not think of this my Fatal Doom . Faithless I proved to my Prince and Nation , Printing a most Rebellious Declaration : By which foul Fact I wrought my overthrow , Let all beware that they may not do so . Least like to me you meet with shameful Death , And rigid Fate untimely stop your breath : Then you perhaps may mourn when it's too late And sighs to think of your unhappy Fate . But you that to your Princes prove most true , The powers of Heaven will surely smile on you , You shall be Crowned with Prosperity , And Happiness will sure your portion be . My Head upon the Bridge must surely stand , Because I was a Traitor to my Land : Upon the Gates they'll set my Quarters too , For doing what I was forbid to do . Let all men to their Princes loyal be , And be as Strangers to all Treachery : Then they may rest in quiet and in peace , For by Rebellion comforts do decrease . My Father he was loyal to the Crown , And he thereby did purchase much renown : But hapless I to seek my overthrow , And Death will be my portion I do know . But this does please me in adversity , That other men may warning take by me : And learn their lawful Princes to obey , From Loyalty never to go astray . And he to whom I did allegiance owe , My self and Enemy did plainly show ; I might have Flourished as my parents did , Had I not meddled with the things forbid . I thought my self with Honour for to crown , But from my hope's was quickly tumbled down . Traitors Reward did fallen unto my share , By which I hope all others will beware . Vain World adieu , I must be packing hence , Who proved so false unto my Noble Prince ; Whose goodness to his Subject's well is known , Whose Fame is through all Europe spread & amp ; flown My Crime committed I could not deny , For which I to this place am brought to die , A sad Example to each sad Spectator , Who sees the end of me poor hapless Traitor . Now must I launch into Eternity , Let every tender Soul now pray for me : Eternal bliss or bane I soon shall find , And hope my Saviour will to me be kind . Into whose hands my Soul I recommend And on his merits wholly do depend : Mind well these lines which here are sent to you , And mind how Disney bids the World adieu . FINIS . Entered according to Order . P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 