Strange and true News from Westmoreland . Being a true Relation of one Gabriel Harding who coming home drunk , struck his Wife a blow on the breast , and killed her outright , and then denied the same : Likewise how a Stran - her did come to the House clothed in green , the people that were eyewitnesses said it was and Angel , and how the Stranger ( or Angel ) did give Sentence on the man for killing of his Wife : Also how Satan did break the men neck that did forswear himself , and the Stran - her or Angel did command Satan to hurt none else , and to vanish ; which being done , there was a pleasant harmony of music herd to found ; then did the stranger clothed in green take his leave of the people ; whereof the chiefest in the P arish desired it might be put into print , and have hereunto set their hands . Tune is , I n Summer time , A Ttend good Christian people all , Mark what I say both old and young , Unto the general judgement day , I think it is not very long . A wonder strange I shall relate , I think the like was never shown , In Westmoreland in Tredenton Of such a thing was never known . One Gabriel Hardin lived of late , As may to all men just appear , Whose yearly rend by just account , Came to five hundred pound a year . This man he had a virtuous wife , In Godly ways her mind did give , Yet he as rude a wicked wretch , As in this sinful Land did live . Much news of him I will relate , The like no mortal man did hear : It's very new and also true , Therefore good Christians all give ear . One time this man he came home drunk As he used which made his wife to weep , Who straightway took him by the hand , Saying , dear Husband lie down & amp ; sleep . She lovingly took him by the arms , Thinking in safety him to guide , A blow he struck her on the breast , The woman straight sunk down and died The Children then with mournful cries They run into the open street , They wept , they wailed , they wrung their hands To all good Christians that they meet . The people then they all ran forth , Saying Children why make you such moan Oh make you hast unto our house , Our dear mother is dead and gone . O Ur Father hath [ our m ] other killed , The Children they cried then , The people then they all made haste , And said their hands upon the man . He presently denied the same , Said from guilty murder I am free , If I did that wicked deed he said , Some example I wish be seen by me . Thus he forswore the wicked deed , Of his dear wives untimely end Quoth the people , let's conclude with speed That for the Corroner we may send . Mark what I say the doors fast shut , The people the Children did deplore , But straight they herd a man to speak , And one stood knocking at the door . One in the house to the door made haste , Hearing a man to knock and call , The door was opened presently , And in he came among them all . By your leave people then he said , May a stranger with you have some talk , A dead woman I am come to see , Into the room I pray sir walk . His eyes like to the stars did shine , He was clothed in a bright grass green , His cheeks was of a crimson read , For such a man was seldom seen . Unto the people then he spoke , Hark well these words which I shall say , For no Corroner you shall send , I'm judge and jury here this day . Bring hither the man that did the deed , And firmly hath denied the same , They brought him into the room with speed To answer this wicked deed with shame . Now come Oh wretched man quoth he , With shame before thy Neighbours all , Thy body thou hast brought to misery , Thy soul into a deeper thrall . Thy chiefest delight was drunkenness , And lewd women Oh cursed since , Blasphemous Oaths , and curses vile , A long time hast thou wallowed in . Thy Neighbours thou wouldst let at strife A and always grinding on the poor , Beside thou hast murdered thy wife , A fearful death thou diest therefore . Fear nothing good people , then he said , I sighed presently will appear . Let all your trust be in the Lord , No harm shall be while I am here . Then in the Room the Devil appeared , Like a brave Gentleman did stand ; Satan quoth he that was the judge , Do no more then thou hast command , The Devil then he straight laid hold , On him that had murdered his wife ; His neck in sunder then he brake , And thus did end his wretched life . The Devil then he vanished Quite from the people in the Hall , Which made the people much afraid , Yet not one had not hurt at all . Then straight a pleasant melody Of music straight was herd to found It ravished the hearts of those stood by , So sweet the Music did abound . Now quoth this gallant man in green , With you I can no longer stay , My love I leave my leave I take , The time is come I must away . Be sure to love each other well . Keep in your breast what I do say , It is the way to go to heaven , When you shall-rise at judgement day , The People to their homes did go , Which had this mighty wonder seen , A and said it was and A ngel sure , That thus was clothed all in green . A and thus the news from Westmoreland , I have related to you over ; I think it is as strange a thing A s ever Man did hear before . Here are the Names of some of the chiefest men that live in the Parish , Christopher Rawly , Esq. James Fish , Gent. William Lisse , Gent. Simon Pierce , Ambrose White , Oliver Craft , Robert Board , Thomas Clifford , Yeomen ; George Crawly , Peter Vaux , Philip Cook ; F rances M artin , George Horton , Husbandmen . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ , ] 168 [ 5. ] Strange and true News from Westmoreland . Being a true Relation of one Gabriel Harding who coming home drunk , struck his Wife a blow on the breast , and killed her outright , and then denied the same : Likewise how a Stran - her did come to the House clothed in green , the people that were eyewitnesses said it was and Angel , and how the Stranger ( or Angel ) did give Sentence on the man for killing of his Wife : Also how Satan did break the men neck that did forswear himself , and the Stran - her or Angel did command Satan to hurt none else , and to vanish ; which being done , there was a pleasant harmony of music herd to found ; then did the stranger clothed in green take his leave of the people ; whereof the chiefest in the P arish desired it might be put into print , and have hereunto set their hands . Tune is , I n Summer time , A Ttend good Christian people all , Mark what I say both old and young , Unto the general judgement day , I think it is not very long . A wonder strange I shall relate , I think the like was never shown , In Westmoreland in Tredenton Of such a thing was never known . One Gabriel Hardin lived of late , As may to all men just appear , Whose yearly rend by just account , Came to five hundred pound a year . This man he had a virtuous wife , In Godly ways her mind did give , Yet he as rude a wicked wretch , As in this sinful Land did live . Much news of him I will relate , The like no mortal man did hear : It's very new and also true , Therefore good Christians all give ear . One time this man he came home drunk As he used which made his wife to weep , Who straightway took him by the hand , Saying , dear Husband lie down & amp ; sleep . She lovingly took him by the arms , Thinking in safety him to guide , A blow he struck her on the breast , The woman straight sunk down and died The Children then with mournful cries They run into the open street , They wept , they wailed , they wrung their hands To all good Christians that they meet . The people then they all ran forth , Saying Children why make you such moan Oh make you hast unto our house , Our dear mother is dead and gone . O Ur Father hath [ our m ] other killed , The Children they cried then , The people then they all made haste , And said their hands upon the man . He presently denied the same , Said from guilty murder I am free , If I did that wicked deed he said , Some example I wish be seen by me . Thus he forswore the wicked deed , Of his dear wives untimely end Quoth the people , let's conclude with speed That for the Corroner we may send . Mark what I say the doors fast shut , The people the Children did deplore , But straight they herd a man to speak , And one stood knocking at the door . One in the house to the door made haste , Hearing a man to knock and call , The door was opened presently , And in he came among them all . By your leave people then he said , May a stranger with you have some talk , A dead woman I am come to see , Into the room I pray sir walk . His eyes like to the stars did shine , He was clothed in a bright grass green , His cheeks was of a crimson read , For such a man was seldom seen . Unto the people then he spoke , Hark well these words which I shall say , For no Corroner you shall send , I'm judge and jury here this day . Bring hither the man that did the deed , And firmly hath denied the same , They brought him into the room with speed To answer this wicked deed with shame . Now come Oh wretched man quoth he , With shame before thy Neighbours all , Thy body thou hast brought to misery , Thy soul into a deeper thrall . Thy chiefest delight was drunkenness , And lewd women Oh cursed since , Blasphemous Oaths , and curses vile , A long time hast thou wallowed in . Thy Neighbours thou wouldst let at strife A and always grinding on the poor , Beside thou hast murdered thy wife , A fearful death thou diest therefore . Fear nothing good people , then he said , I sighed presently will appear . Let all your trust be in the Lord , No harm shall be while I am here . Then in the Room the Devil appeared , Like a brave Gentleman did stand ; Satan quoth he that was the judge , Do no more then thou hast command , The Devil then he straight laid hold , On him that had murdered his wife ; His neck in sunder then he brake , And thus did end his wretched life . The Devil then he vanished Quite from the people in the Hall , Which made the people much afraid , Yet not one had not hurt at all . Then straight a pleasant melody Of music straight was herd to found It ravished the hearts of those stood by , So sweet the Music did abound . Now quoth this gallant man in green , With you I can no longer stay , My love I leave my leave I take , The time is come I must away . Be sure to love each other well . Keep in your breast what I do say , It is the way to go to heaven , When you shall-rise at judgement day , The People to their homes did go , Which had this mighty wonder seen , A and said it was and A ngel sure , That thus was clothed all in green . A and thus the news from Westmoreland , I have related to you over ; I think it is as strange a thing A s ever Man did hear before . Here are the Names of some of the chiefest men that live in the Parish , Christopher Rawly , Esq. James Fish , Gent. William Lisse , Gent. Simon Pierce , Ambrose White , Oliver Craft , Robert Board , Thomas Clifford , Yeomen ; George Crawly , Peter Vaux , Philip Cook ; F rances M artin , George Horton , Husbandmen . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ , ] 168 [ 5. ] 