The Ruined Lovers . Being a Narrative of a Young Man that died for his cruel Mistress , in June last , who not long after his death , upon consideration of his entire affection - on and her own coyness , could not be comforted , but lingered out her days in Melancholy , fell desperate sick , and so died . MArs shall to Cupid now submit , for he hath gained the Glory , You that in Love were never yet , attend unto my Story : For it is new , it's strange and true , as ever age afforded , A Tale more sad you never had , in any Book Recorded . A Youngman lately loved a Maid , more then his life and fortune , And in her ears the same conveyed , for thus he did importune : Dear pity me , the Lover cried , sweet let thy heart come to me , And often said unto the Maid , love me or you'll undo me . I never was engaged before , I must and will be true to thee , Love never made me cry and roar , until I saw thy Beauty : No creature could of flesh and blood , bring more delight unto me , Which makes me cry perpetually , love me or you'll undo me . He made addresses to the Maid , and proffered to advance her , I cannot love thee , then she said , pray take it for and Answer : In many ways he sung her praise , love shot his Arrow through me , Why did not he , do so to thee , love me , etc She made him such a strange reply , he durst no more come near her , Quoth he , I will go home and die , since there is nothing dearer : They joys of all the Christian world , ( says he ) are nothing to me , It's Death only can set me free , love me , etc He took his Bed , he raged and burned , sure this must grieve her ever . His scorching love was quickly turned into a burning Fever : And then he died , but first he cried , Oh will she not come to me ? Then sheds a Tear , his last words were , love me or you'll undo me . To the same Tune . TO He Virgin when she herd the news , was very greatly troubled , And when the Coffined Corpse she views , her woes are all redoubled : And hast thou died for me , she cried , thou hast in love overrun me , Too late I may thus sadly say , thy death hath quite undone me . Had I a thousand world's , I would give them all to restore thee , For I am guilty of thy Blood , how dare I stand before thee ? I am a Murderess , woe is me , let all true lovers shun me , And I must cry until I die , thy death , etc It is in vain for me to live , thy memory will haunt me , I only have a short reprieve , thy sorrows daily daunt me : Wherever thy dead Corpse do lie , since thou by death hast wone me , I will be laid a wooful Maid , thy death , etc With that the tears fell from her eyes , she could not longer bear it , For Love and Death did Tyrannise , she had great cause to fear it : Pray have me home to Bed , she cried , my sorrows overrun me : I am rewarded for my Pride , thy death , etc She took her Bed , and in her head a thousand frantic Dreams are , Sadly she lies , and in her eyes a hundred flowing streams are : What wretched Soul am I ? cried she , Oh whither am I going ? Poor soul ( she cried ) and so she died , thy death , etc Let all fair Maids that are in Love , by this poor soul take warning . lest that like her , you sadly prove , the purchase of her scorning : Let all by this , mend what's amiss before grief overrun you , lest you be forced to die and cry , thy death hath quite undone me . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Ruined Lovers . Being a Narrative of a Young Man that died for his cruel Mistress , in June last , who not long after his death , upon consideration of his entire affection - on and her own coyness , could not be comforted , but lingered out her days in Melancholy , fell desperate sick , and so died . MArs shall to Cupid now submit , for he hath gained the Glory , You that in Love were never yet , attend unto my Story : For it is new , it's strange and true , as ever age afforded , A Tale more sad you never had , in any Book Recorded . A Youngman lately loved a Maid , more then his life and fortune , And in her ears the same conveyed , for thus he did importune : Dear pity me , the Lover cried , sweet let thy heart come to me , And often said unto the Maid , love me or you'll undo me . I never was engaged before , I must and will be true to thee , Love never made me cry and roar , until I saw thy Beauty : No creature could of flesh and blood , bring more delight unto me , Which makes me cry perpetually , love me or you'll undo me . He made addresses to the Maid , and proffered to advance her , I cannot love thee , then she said , pray take it for and Answer : In many ways he sung her praise , love shot his Arrow through me , Why did not he , do so to thee , love me , etc She made him such a strange reply , he durst no more come near her , Quoth he , I will go home and die , since there is nothing dearer : They joys of all the Christian world , ( says he ) are nothing to me , It's Death only can set me free , love me , etc He took his Bed , he raged and burned , sure this must grieve her ever . His scorching love was quickly turned into a burning Fever : And then he died , but first he cried , Oh will she not come to me ? Then sheds a Tear , his last words were , love me or you'll undo me . To the same Tune . TO He Virgin when she herd the news , was very greatly troubled , And when the Coffined Corpse she views , her woes are all redoubled : And hast thou died for me , she cried , thou hast in love overrun me , Too late I may thus sadly say , thy death hath quite undone me . Had I a thousand world's , I would give them all to restore thee , For I am guilty of thy Blood , how dare I stand before thee ? I am a Murderess , woe is me , let all true lovers shun me , And I must cry until I die , thy death , etc It is in vain for me to live , thy memory will haunt me , I only have a short reprieve , thy sorrows daily daunt me : Wherever thy dead Corpse do lie , since thou by death hast wone me , I will be laid a wooful Maid , thy death , etc With that the tears fell from her eyes , she could not longer bear it , For Love and Death did Tyrannise , she had great cause to fear it : Pray have me home to Bed , she cried , my sorrows overrun me : I am rewarded for my Pride , thy death , etc She took her Bed , and in her head a thousand frantic Dreams are , Sadly she lies , and in her eyes a hundred flowing streams are : What wretched Soul am I ? cried she , Oh whither am I going ? Poor soul ( she cried ) and so she died , thy death , etc Let all fair Maids that are in Love , by this poor soul take warning . lest that like her , you sadly prove , the purchase of her scorning : Let all by this , mend what's amiss before grief overrun you , lest you be forced to die and cry , thy death hath quite undone me . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 