[ THE ] Lord RUSSELS Farewell , Who was Beheaded for High-Treason , in Lincolns-Inn-Fields , JULY 21 st . 1683. To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . P Ride the bane of humane creatures , will corrupt the best of nature's , when it soars to its full height , who can stand it or command it , when the object is in sighed ? Reason is no more our jewel , When our dearest thoughts are cruel , all her Maxims are forgotten : Else what reason , was for Treason , or this base inhumane Plot . Russel that enjoyed the treasure , Every way repleat with pleasure , had Allegience quite forgotten : Hope's of Risiing did advice him , to this base inhumane Plot . Who alas ! could he desire , That himself could not require , pride did only his besot ; To aspire to grow higher , By a base inhumane Plot . Safely might have lived for ever , In a gracious Princes favour , and more honour there have god : Then his thoughts what ever they wrought , By any base inhumane Plot . Those false hope's that did deceive him , With his nature will nht leave him , nor with his poor body rot : While records , the world affords , his Treason never will be forgotten . Better be the Earl of Bedford , Then for Treason lose his Head fored , and to make his name a blot : In each Libel as a Rebel , In a base inhumane Plot . If his Prince had ever left him , Or of any Grace bereft him , ever his Treason force his Lot : Yet Obedience and Allegience , should have kept him from this Plot . Treason is a Crime against nature , Against Kings the highest matter , sure can never be forgotten : he that blames him does profane him and his soul is in the Plot . Russel died then unlamented , By all men but who consented to this damned inhumane Plot : To Destroy the Nations joy , the King and Monarchy should Rot. But Heavens preserve the Crimson Royal And bring all the rest to trial who Alegience have forgotten : And confounded be each Round-head , in this damned inhumane Plot . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den Ball , in West-smithfield . [ THE ] Lord RUSSELS Farewell , Who was Beheaded for High-Treason , in Lincolns-Inn-Fields , JULY 21 st . 1683. To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . P Ride the bane of humane creatures , will corrupt the best of nature's , when it soars to its full height , who can stand it or command it , when the object is in sighed ? Reason is no more our jewel , When our dearest thoughts are cruel , all her Maxims are forgotten : Else what reason , was for Treason , or this base inhumane Plot . Russel that enjoyed the treasure , Every way repleat with pleasure , had Allegience quite forgotten : Hope's of Risiing did advice him , to this base inhumane Plot . Who alas ! could he desire , That himself could not require , pride did only his besot ; To aspire to grow higher , By a base inhumane Plot . Safely might have lived for ever , In a gracious Princes favour , and more honour there have god : Then his thoughts what ever they wrought , By any base inhumane Plot . Those false hope's that did deceive him , With his nature will nht leave him , nor with his poor body rot : While records , the world affords , his Treason never will be forgotten . Better be the Earl of Bedford , Then for Treason lose his Head fored , and to make his name a blot : In each Libel as a Rebel , In a base inhumane Plot . If his Prince had ever left him , Or of any Grace bereft him , ever his Treason force his Lot : Yet Obedience and Allegience , should have kept him from this Plot . Treason is a Crime against nature , Against Kings the highest matter , sure can never be forgotten : he that blames him does profane him and his soul is in the Plot . Russel died then unlamented , By all men but who consented to this damned inhumane Plot : To Destroy the Nations joy , the King and Monarchy should Rot. But Heavens preserve the Crimson Royal And bring all the rest to trial who Alegience have forgotten : And confounded be each Round-head , in this damned inhumane Plot . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den Ball , in West-smithfield . 