The sad effects of Covetousness . Being , a Relation of a Horrid Murder , committed upon a Maid Servant , in the Town of Lyn ; by her Mistress and her Son , for the Lucre of what she had : But they being apprehended for the same , was accordingly found Guilty , and was also Executed . Tune of , The Young-Mans Legacy . This may be printed , R. P. W Hile I in brief shall make appear , what sins are chiefest in this land , Who can forbear to shed a tear , when they these Lines shall understand Covetousness we see each day , to many other sins does led , And when we shall to that give way , sad murders does from thence proceed For money what will many do , to Satans service they'll engage , And will their hands in blood imbrue ; O! is this not a sinful age . Though many for the same does stretch , yet some will eagerly run on , And does not fear to make a breach , in all the Laws of God and Man. Alas , we find the case is clear , offenders will no conscience make , Although their lives do pay full dear , yet they will not their sins forsake . And now in brief I will proceed , to tell what grieves my heart full soar , The like of this sad bloody deed , was hardly ever herd before . There was and honest Servant-Maid , that lived in the town of Lyn : Who of her life was soon betrayed , By Murder that notorious since . It was the Mistress and her Son , who proved this Maidens overthrow , There was no Creature , no not one , when they their Cruelty did show . To death they did this Damsel bring , she did their cruelty behold , What tempted them to do this thing , these very Lines shall here unfold . While she did in this place abide , a Servant with humility : A Friend or a Relation died , who left to her a Legacy . This to her service then she brought , where wickedness was too too rife , For this they her destruction wrought , and suddenly they sought her life . One morning when she riss betimes , to do her work , and thought no ill , O! then they did commit this crime , her Guiltless blood they then did spill . They first agreed to knock her down , then presently her wicked Son , He drove a spike into her head , to finish what they had begun . When they had her destruction wrought . O! then the Son that wicked Elf , Did hang her that it might be thought to all , that she had hanged her self . But Murder Heaven does forbid , the Blood does still for vengeance cry , Likewise we know it can't be hid , from our great Gods all-seeing Eye . She by their Cruelty did fallen , alas ! we may her grief condole , They did not give her time to call to God , to pity her poor Soul. They to the Bar was brought at last , by this sad wicked Raze they run , And there by Law they both were cast , first died the Mother , then her Son. The fruits of Murder here we see , would make a Christians heart to bleed O that it may a warning be , to all that ever these lines shall read . The sad effects of Covetousness . Being , a Relation of a Horrid Murder , committed upon a Maid Servant , in the Town of Lyn ; by her Mistress and her Son , for the Lucre of what she had : But they being apprehended for the same , was accordingly found Guilty , and was also Executed . Tune of , The Young-Mans Legacy . This may be printed , R. P. W Hile I in brief shall make appear , what sins are chiefest in this land , Who can forbear to shed a tear , when they these Lines shall understand Covetousness we see each day , to many other sins does led , And when we shall to that give way , sad murders does from thence proceed For money what will many do , to Satans service they'll engage , And will their hands in blood imbrue ; O! is this not a sinful age . Though many for the same does stretch , yet some will eagerly run on , And does not fear to make a breach , in all the Laws of God and Man. Alas , we find the case is clear , offenders will no conscience make , Although their lives do pay full dear , yet they will not their sins forsake . And now in brief I will proceed , to tell what grieves my heart full soar , The like of this sad bloody deed , was hardly ever herd before . There was and honest Servant-Maid , that lived in the town of Lyn : Who of her life was soon betrayed , By Murder that notorious since . It was the Mistress and her Son , who proved this Maidens overthrow , There was no Creature , no not one , when they their Cruelty did show . To death they did this Damsel bring , she did their cruelty behold , What tempted them to do this thing , these very Lines shall here unfold . While she did in this place abide , a Servant with humility : A Friend or a Relation died , who left to her a Legacy . This to her service then she brought , where wickedness was too too rife , For this they her destruction wrought , and suddenly they sought her life . One morning when she riss betimes , to do her work , and thought no ill , O! then they did commit this crime , her Guiltless blood they then did spill . They first agreed to knock her down , then presently her wicked Son , He drove a spike into her head , to finish what they had begun . When they had her destruction wrought . O! then the Son that wicked Elf , Did hang her that it might be thought to all , that she had hanged her self . But Murder Heaven does forbid , the Blood does still for vengeance cry , Likewise we know it can't be hid , from our great Gods all-seeing Eye . She by their Cruelty did fallen , alas ! we may her grief condole , They did not give her time to call to God , to pity her poor Soul. They to the Bar was brought at last , by this sad wicked Raze they run , And there by Law they both were cast , first died the Mother , then her Son. The fruits of Murder here we see , would make a Christians heart to bleed O that it may a warning be , to all that ever these lines shall read . 