THE Town-bully's Bravery : OR , THE HIGH-WAY HECTOR's Ample Confession of his Lewd LIFE ; Being a forerunner of and ignominious DEATH . Tune of , The Scotch Haymaker . Licensed according to Order . I them as bold a Hector as any's in the Town , Each day to seek a Booty I ramble up and down , In my gaudy rich Array , still my Plumbs I do display , My golden Trimming on young Women commonly I prey , For while the Merchant is at the Change , Strait to his youthful Lady immediately I range , My kindness for to show , and then before I go , Both Gold and Treasure , out of measure , she presents her Bow. Many other Fancies I commonly contrive , A Pocket I can pick with the very best alive ; If a Crowd I chance to spy , then to Filing who but I , Boy , to the centre , strait I venture for a fresh supply , Few will imagine I was him , Because my rich Array is so gaudy , fine and trim : Thus , like a Bully-Bow , I make a taring show , With Sword and Rapier do I caper wheresoever I go . All the newest Fashions which any Gallants use , I do follow to the life , see Spanish - leather Shoes , Campaign-wig , of Flaxin-hair , Beaver-hat and Silks I wear With Golden-fringes , Drawers scringes when I do repair Unto the Tavern , where I do call For Sack and other Wine , yet I seldom pay at all ; A Room I take below , and watch my time to go , And thus I leave them and deceive them like a Bully-Bow . Sometime I am mounted upon a dapple Grey , To take Purse or so upon the King's High-Way , With a Pistol in my hand , and the word is WORSER       Stand , Likewise Deliver , then they quiver , yield to my demand ; Now if they are not quarrelsome Men , Perhaps I'll throw a Crown for to bear their Charges then : Thus I in Guinea's flow , which makes a taring show , You may conjecture that I hecter like a Bully-Bow . Having god my Booty I make no more ado , But ride to hunt and find out a brace of Cracks or two , Where in pleasant found delight I do pass away the night , Then ever next morning , day's adorning , I am ruined quite ; Then when the Cracks I have fairly clawed , I fallen into a passion , both kick and bang the Baud , The Jugs about I throw for serving of me so , You may conjecture that I hector like a Bully Bow. When I am Condemned for Pranks which I have played , Up Holbourn-hill I shall be most carefully conveyed , In a Cart which I shall ride , with a Crowd on e'ry side , Before and after , filled with laughter , for to see my tied ; Then will they hollow , and cry aloud , As I am still pursued by the cry of all the Crowd : Come , come you Bully-Bows , who used to sing old Rose , Your Hector , Hector , roaring Hector , see him where he goes . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . THE Town-bully's Bravery : OR , THE HIGH-WAY HECTOR's Ample Confession of his Lewd LIFE ; Being a forerunner of and ignominious DEATH . Tune of , The Scotch Haymaker . Licensed according to Order . I them as bold a Hector as any's in the Town , Each day to seek a Booty I ramble up and down , In my gaudy rich Array , still my Plumbs I do display , My golden Trimming on young Women commonly I prey , For while the Merchant is at the Change , Strait to his youthful Lady immediately I range , My kindness for to show , and then before I go , Both Gold and Treasure , out of measure , she presents her Bow. Many other Fancies I commonly contrive , A Pocket I can pick with the very best alive ; If a Crowd I chance to spy , then to Filing who but I , Boy , to the centre , strait I venture for a fresh supply , Few will imagine I was him , Because my rich Array is so gaudy , fine and trim : Thus , like a Bully-Bow , I make a taring show , With Sword and Rapier do I caper wheresoever I go . All the newest Fashions which any Gallants use , I do follow to the life , see Spanish - leather Shoes , Campaign-wig , of Flaxin-hair , Beaver-hat and Silks I wear With Golden-fringes , Drawers scringes when I do repair Unto the Tavern , where I do call For Sack and other Wine , yet I seldom pay at all ; A Room I take below , and watch my time to go , And thus I leave them and deceive them like a Bully-Bow . Sometime I am mounted upon a dapple Grey , To take Purse or so upon the King's High-Way , With a Pistol in my hand , and the word is WORSER       Stand , Likewise Deliver , then they quiver , yield to my demand ; Now if they are not quarrelsome Men , Perhaps I'll throw a Crown for to bear their Charges then : Thus I in Guinea's flow , which makes a taring show , You may conjecture that I hecter like a Bully-Bow . Having god my Booty I make no more ado , But ride to hunt and find out a brace of Cracks or two , Where in pleasant found delight I do pass away the night , Then ever next morning , day's adorning , I am ruined quite ; Then when the Cracks I have fairly clawed , I fallen into a passion , both kick and bang the Baud , The Jugs about I throw for serving of me so , You may conjecture that I hector like a Bully Bow. When I am Condemned for Pranks which I have played , Up Holbourn-hill I shall be most carefully conveyed , In a Cart which I shall ride , with a Crowd on e'ry side , Before and after , filled with laughter , for to see my tied ; Then will they hollow , and cry aloud , As I am still pursued by the cry of all the Crowd : Come , come you Bully-Bows , who used to sing old Rose , Your Hector , Hector , roaring Hector , see him where he goes . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 