The Chimney-man's Lamentation , OR , Gold ill god , never prospers . To the Tune of , P ackington's P owned . Licensed according to Order . A Chimney-man lately in London did dwell , Who by that hard Tax had lived many years well , Who hearing for certain the same must go down , All over the Kingdom , in City and Town , He knew not what course in the World he should take , His heart was afflicted and ready to break , To think that he now must that practice give over , Which he had long used in grinding the poor . The Taverns he haunted both early and late , In Riotous Feasting he spent at that rate , As if he had then the whole World in a string , The Chimneys such plenty of treasure did bring , Which lined his pockets with silver and gold , We thought that his practice for ever would hold , But finding it fails him , this troubles him soar , To think he no longer should punish the poor . He was never married all days of his life , Yet now is resolved to choose him a Wife , Some Lady induced with a worthy Estate , That still he might live at a flourishing rate , For finding the Chimneys no longer would do , His Fortune he now was resolved to pursue ; In Guineas he then had a thousand or more , Which he by oppression had raked from the poor . The Plays he frequented , in order to find Some beautiful Lady exact to his mind ; At length he beheld one so amorous fair , That few in the City with her could compare ; He straightways inquired what Birth she might be , 'Twas answered a Lady of noble degree : I'll Court her , for why , her sweet Charms I adore , Beside I no longer can live by the poor . He waited upon her that night to the Strand , Her Coach and five Servants were at her Command As-if a high Heiress of Fame and Renown , And yet was no more than a Miss of the Town ; Her Coach and Attendants she hired as Tools . The better to baffle and rifle such Fools : The Chimney-man boasted and bragged of his store , Which was in good Guineys a thousand or more . He Courts her , but she was invincible coy , The Chimney-man feared he never should enjoy This Lady , to whom his whole heart he revealed , Long time he contended before she would yield , At length she did willingly grant him his Suit , He then brought his Plate , and his Guineas to boot , His Watch , with his Rings , and the rest of his store , Which he by oppression had god from the poor . The subtle young Lady of pleasure did say , I am bound in duty my Friends to obey , Therefore to the Marquis my Father pray go , And see if he'll grant you his Daughter or no ; He lives about seventy miles from this Town , The Chimney-man straightways took Horse and rid But ever he came back she was fled with his store , Which he by oppression had god from the poor . Her pretended Father he never could find , At length he returned much afflicted in mind , When coming alas to the house of his Love , And called for his Lady , his sweet Turtle-Dove : The Chimney-man then they did answer and say , She did leave her Lodglng the very same day ; A stronger she is that we never knew before ; The Chimney-man found she had rifled his store . His heart was so full it was ready to break , That he for a while was not able to speak . But straightways he fell into violent Fits , As if quite distracted and out of his Wits ; I've lost all my Gold by a miss of the Town , The Tax of the Chimneys beside will go down , So that I can never replenish my store , As often I have by oppressing the poor . FINIS . The Chimney-man's Lamentation , OR , Gold ill god , never prospers . To the Tune of , P ackington's P owned . Licensed according to Order . A Chimney-man lately in London did dwell , Who by that hard Tax had lived many years well , Who hearing for certain the same must go down , All over the Kingdom , in City and Town , He knew not what course in the World he should take , His heart was afflicted and ready to break , To think that he now must that practice give over , Which he had long used in grinding the poor . The Taverns he haunted both early and late , In Riotous Feasting he spent at that rate , As if he had then the whole World in a string , The Chimneys such plenty of treasure did bring , Which lined his pockets with silver and gold , We thought that his practice for ever would hold , But finding it fails him , this troubles him soar , To think he no longer should punish the poor . He was never married all days of his life , Yet now is resolved to choose him a Wife , Some Lady induced with a worthy Estate , That still he might live at a flourishing rate , For finding the Chimneys no longer would do , His Fortune he now was resolved to pursue ; In Guineas he then had a thousand or more , Which he by oppression had raked from the poor . The Plays he frequented , in order to find Some beautiful Lady exact to his mind ; At length he beheld one so amorous fair , That few in the City with her could compare ; He straightways inquired what Birth she might be , 'Twas answered a Lady of noble degree : I'll Court her , for why , her sweet Charms I adore , Beside I no longer can live by the poor . He waited upon her that night to the Strand , Her Coach and five Servants were at her Command As-if a high Heiress of Fame and Renown , And yet was no more than a Miss of the Town ; Her Coach and Attendants she hired as Tools . The better to baffle and rifle such Fools : The Chimney-man boasted and bragged of his store , Which was in good Guineys a thousand or more . He Courts her , but she was invincible coy , The Chimney-man feared he never should enjoy This Lady , to whom his whole heart he revealed , Long time he contended before she would yield , At length she did willingly grant him his Suit , He then brought his Plate , and his Guineas to boot , His Watch , with his Rings , and the rest of his store , Which he by oppression had god from the poor . The subtle young Lady of pleasure did say , I am bound in duty my Friends to obey , Therefore to the Marquis my Father pray go , And see if he'll grant you his Daughter or no ; He lives about seventy miles from this Town , The Chimney-man straightways took Horse and rid But ever he came back she was fled with his store , Which he by oppression had god from the poor . Her pretended Father he never could find , At length he returned much afflicted in mind , When coming alas to the house of his Love , And called for his Lady , his sweet Turtle-Dove : The Chimney-man then they did answer and say , She did leave her Lodglng the very same day ; A stronger she is that we never knew before ; The Chimney-man found she had rifled his store . His heart was so full it was ready to break , That he for a while was not able to speak . But straightways he fell into violent Fits , As if quite distracted and out of his Wits ; I've lost all my Gold by a miss of the Town , The Tax of the Chimneys beside will go down , So that I can never replenish my store , As often I have by oppressing the poor . FINIS . 