On the Barbarous , Execrable , and Bloody Murder of the Earl of Essex . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death . ATtend and give Ear , good Christians to me , While I do relate Rome's black Cruelty ; Of a horrid great murder ( which now is reviewed ) On the brave Earl of Essex , whom Papists pursued : But God will not suffer this Murder to die , His Blood still for Vengeance from Heaven does cry . The Chief Actor in it is brought to the Light , Who , by Money , was tempted to act this great Spite ; His Conscience , and Actions now fly in his Face , And says , He deserves to die with Disgrace : His Soul he did venture for luker of Gains ; In Showers of Gold he was paid for his Pains . But the great Villain Bomene , he is not yet found , Who provided the Razor that gave the great Wound : His Lord and his Master , this Judas betrayed , And to see his Blood Split was no ways afraid : But this Valet the Chamber I hope to see hanged , And Popery banished quite out of the Land. True Justice , I doubt not , will now act its Part , And pay off each Ruffian to his Just Desert ; Though the Devil a while , may seem their good Friend , He'll bring they to Shame and Disgrace in the End. For there's a just God , that will judge Equity , And sees all their Actions wherever they fly . [ Now when these great ] Villains had his Life took away , Himself he did Murder , they with Impudence say : But all that assisted his Life to deprive , Must never expect in this World to thrive : The Powers above will bring all things about , Though ever so Secret , at length it'll come out . My Heart it grieves soar , who never did him see , That such a brave Peer should so murdered be ; It'll never be forgotten , with great nor with Small , That He by the Hands of the Papists did fallen : Though some , who are absent , the Murder did please , And Jesuits thought themselves then at full Ease . He never wanted Courage , nor of Death was afraid , By greatest of Dangers could not be dismyed : Then why should we think him so poor a Slave , As to murder himself for fear of the Grave : But impudent Villains , charge him with the Gilded , Of shedding that Blood which by Papists was spilled . They by Stealth did him kill with a secret Stroke , And silenced that Voice which charmed when it spoke , The Blood from his Throat did overflow the Ground , And like to a River did run from his Wound : Thus the Pious Essex , a Victim do's fallen , But his Soul , near the Altar , for Vengeance does call . For no question in Heaven it's mounted most high , Out of the Danger of Rome ' s Treachery : Attended by Angels and Spiritual Charms , In Glory and Splendour , free from all Harms : It's far better Joys than this sinful Globe brings , To sing Hallelujahs to the greatest of Kings . But while we are mortal , the stoutest of Heart , Though loath , must submit to Death's cruel Dart ; Whose Cup is so bitter we'd willingly pass by , Yet when it does come , who can it deny ? Then let us be Watchful , and always prepare , Left Death unawares , catch us in a Snare . Printed and Sold by J. Wallis in White-Friars . On the Barbarous , Execrable , and Bloody Murder of the Earl of Essex . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death . ATtend and give Ear , good Christians to me , While I do relate Rome's black Cruelty ; Of a horrid great murder ( which now is reviewed ) On the brave Earl of Essex , whom Papists pursued : But God will not suffer this Murder to die , His Blood still for Vengeance from Heaven does cry . The Chief Actor in it is brought to the Light , Who , by Money , was tempted to act this great Spite ; His Conscience , and Actions now fly in his Face , And says , He deserves to die with Disgrace : His Soul he did venture for luker of Gains ; In Showers of Gold he was paid for his Pains . But the great Villain Bomene , he is not yet found , Who provided the Razor that gave the great Wound : His Lord and his Master , this Judas betrayed , And to see his Blood Split was no ways afraid : But this Valet the Chamber I hope to see hanged , And Popery banished quite out of the Land. True Justice , I doubt not , will now act its Part , And pay off each Ruffian to his Just Desert ; Though the Devil a while , may seem their good Friend , He'll bring they to Shame and Disgrace in the End. For there's a just God , that will judge Equity , And sees all their Actions wherever they fly . [ Now when these great ] Villains had his Life took away , Himself he did Murder , they with Impudence say : But all that assisted his Life to deprive , Must never expect in this World to thrive : The Powers above will bring all things about , Though ever so Secret , at length it'll come out . My Heart it grieves soar , who never did him see , That such a brave Peer should so murdered be ; It'll never be forgotten , with great nor with Small , That He by the Hands of the Papists did fallen : Though some , who are absent , the Murder did please , And Jesuits thought themselves then at full Ease . He never wanted Courage , nor of Death was afraid , By greatest of Dangers could not be dismyed : Then why should we think him so poor a Slave , As to murder himself for fear of the Grave : But impudent Villains , charge him with the Gilded , Of shedding that Blood which by Papists was spilled . They by Stealth did him kill with a secret Stroke , And silenced that Voice which charmed when it spoke , The Blood from his Throat did overflow the Ground , And like to a River did run from his Wound : Thus the Pious Essex , a Victim do's fallen , But his Soul , near the Altar , for Vengeance does call . For no question in Heaven it's mounted most high , Out of the Danger of Rome ' s Treachery : Attended by Angels and Spiritual Charms , In Glory and Splendour , free from all Harms : It's far better Joys than this sinful Globe brings , To sing Hallelujahs to the greatest of Kings . But while we are mortal , the stoutest of Heart , Though loath , must submit to Death's cruel Dart ; Whose Cup is so bitter we'd willingly pass by , Yet when it does come , who can it deny ? Then let us be Watchful , and always prepare , Left Death unawares , catch us in a Snare . Printed and Sold by J. Wallis in White-Friars . 