Whitney's Dying Letter To his Mistress that betrayed him : With her Answer . Giving a full Account how through excess of Grief and Mal - lancolly She Stabbed Herself . Tune , Whitney's Farewell , etc False Wretch , why would thou thus betray my Life , while in its Prime ! Sure Terror haunts thy breast each day For so unjust a crime . Curse on the time I loved thy Charms , Or did thy Pleasures taste : The false Embraces of thy Arms Hath brought me to my last . How oft have I thy wants relieved , And to support thy pride ; Thou knowest full well I often Theived , New Dresses to provide . And then to recompense at last , My Love with death and Shame Sure Justice will make thee taste For thy reward the same . Base Woman , Woman , how canst be So infamously false ! So full of hate and treachery , That none can feel thy pulse . Malice with Love thou canst disguise , Thy subtle ends to gain : And seem most foolish when most wise , To Cheat believing Man. I'm bound to Curse that tempting Eye That did my breast invade . This by that charming Treachery I am to death betrayed . Beware how Whores your secrets gain , Their subtle charms deride ; They to the Gallous bring more Men , Then all the World beside . Had I thus wretched shame survived , Oh then thou shouldst have seen , Thy Charms should have no more deceived Poor Whittney over again ! But as I'm now compelled to die , The World will surely see , Some dreadful death or misery , Will doubtless fallen on thee . If I had never so wicked been , You ought not above all To be the only Person seen To work my shameful fallen . When I am dead and gone thou'l find , Within my breast a Hell . Whose Glommey flams will plague thy mind , And so false wretch farewell . Her ANSWER . WHy should Passion so prevail , Against the thing I loved . My Grief no longer I'll conceal , My hearts to sorrow moved . How oft , how oft , have I embraced Dear Whittney in my Arms ; Whose kind affections on me were placed On my prevailing Charms . Through his unkind neglects of late To Envy I was bent : And brought him to his woeful fate Which I too late Repent . Now could I wish 'twas in my power , But to restore his Breath ; I'de Bless , I'de Bless that happy hour . Could I retrieve his Death . But now alace , it is too late The greater are my Cares . I only can bemoan his Fate , And think of him with Tears . The sweet delights I oft enjoyed . Along with him are fled , The Comfort of my Life's destroyed , Since my dear Whittney ' s Dead . Ah! how unhappy am I grown , Each thought new woes create . I should have thought I'de happy been Could I have shared his Fate . But since through Envy I Betrayed , Poor Whittney to his fallen , By my own Treachery I am made A Wretch condemned by all . I'll wander to some Gloomy-Shade And let my Tears express , The Cares and Sorrows that invade , And do my heart oppress . Pity my Griefs you Powers above , And hasten on my Doom ; That I may follow what I Love To the Elizeum . With this bright Dagger in my hand , I'll give my Woes relief ; This fatal Stobb shall now Command And end to all my grief . Dear Whittney it's for thee I bleed , I brought thee to thy Doom . Which makes me Act this bloody Deed And now dear Soul I come . LONDON , Printed by J.W. near White-Friers Gate . 1692. Whitney's Dying Letter To his Mistress that betrayed him : With her Answer . Giving a full Account how through excess of Grief and Mal - lancolly She Stabbed Herself . Tune , Whitney's Farewell , etc False Wretch , why would thou thus betray my Life , while in its Prime ! Sure Terror haunts thy breast each day For so unjust a crime . Curse on the time I loved thy Charms , Or did thy Pleasures taste : The false Embraces of thy Arms Hath brought me to my last . How oft have I thy wants relieved , And to support thy pride ; Thou knowest full well I often Theived , New Dresses to provide . And then to recompense at last , My Love with death and Shame Sure Justice will make thee taste For thy reward the same . Base Woman , Woman , how canst be So infamously false ! So full of hate and treachery , That none can feel thy pulse . Malice with Love thou canst disguise , Thy subtle ends to gain : And seem most foolish when most wise , To Cheat believing Man. I'm bound to Curse that tempting Eye That did my breast invade . This by that charming Treachery I am to death betrayed . Beware how Whores your secrets gain , Their subtle charms deride ; They to the Gallous bring more Men , Then all the World beside . Had I thus wretched shame survived , Oh then thou shouldst have seen , Thy Charms should have no more deceived Poor Whittney over again ! But as I'm now compelled to die , The World will surely see , Some dreadful death or misery , Will doubtless fallen on thee . If I had never so wicked been , You ought not above all To be the only Person seen To work my shameful fallen . When I am dead and gone thou'l find , Within my breast a Hell . Whose Glommey flams will plague thy mind , And so false wretch farewell . Her ANSWER . WHy should Passion so prevail , Against the thing I loved . My Grief no longer I'll conceal , My hearts to sorrow moved . How oft , how oft , have I embraced Dear Whittney in my Arms ; Whose kind affections on me were placed On my prevailing Charms . Through his unkind neglects of late To Envy I was bent : And brought him to his woeful fate Which I too late Repent . Now could I wish 'twas in my power , But to restore his Breath ; I'de Bless , I'de Bless that happy hour . Could I retrieve his Death . But now alace , it is too late The greater are my Cares . I only can bemoan his Fate , And think of him with Tears . The sweet delights I oft enjoyed . Along with him are fled , The Comfort of my Life's destroyed , Since my dear Whittney ' s Dead . Ah! how unhappy am I grown , Each thought new woes create . I should have thought I'de happy been Could I have shared his Fate . But since through Envy I Betrayed , Poor Whittney to his fallen , By my own Treachery I am made A Wretch condemned by all . I'll wander to some Gloomy-Shade And let my Tears express , The Cares and Sorrows that invade , And do my heart oppress . Pity my Griefs you Powers above , And hasten on my Doom ; That I may follow what I Love To the Elizeum . With this bright Dagger in my hand , I'll give my Woes relief ; This fatal Stobb shall now Command And end to all my grief . Dear Whittney it's for thee I bleed , I brought thee to thy Doom . Which makes me Act this bloody Deed And now dear Soul I come . LONDON , Printed by J.W. near White-Friers Gate . 1692. 