The Mirror of Mercy , In our Gracious KING's Pardoning of Edward Skelton : Who was Condemned to Die , as being Accessary with Richard Richardson , in the Murder of Henry Howard , Gentleman ; but by the Intercession of Eighteen young Maidens , ob - tained his Majesties most Gracious Pardon for him . To the Tune of , Joy to the Bridegroom : Or , In S ummer time . This may be Printed , R.P. H Eared you not of the Headborough , Who fell into a strange Demur ? By Murdering of a Gentleman , Whose Life , alas ! he did Trappan : He had no reason to proceed In such a bloody Wicked deed . And if I may declare the truth , There likewise went with him a Youth ; One in the Glory of his prime , Proved accessary to the Crime : They both Committed was to Goal , Where they their sorrows might bewail . Since they have this destruction wrought Before the Bar they both were brought ; To prove them Guilty Men , or clear , But as the truth does well appear , They both Condemned was to die , As the Reward of Villainy . When his acquaintance they did hear , That he must lose his life so dear , That he ordained was for Death , And to resign his dearest breath , No tongue is able to declare The sorrow of their grief and care . They all in sorrow did relate . Their grief , for by unhappy Fate , He being well beloved we hear , Of all that lived far and near : In sorrow they lament and grieve , Oh that we could gain his Reprieve ! Since there's no other remedy , We'll to our Royal Majesty ; In humble sort we will entreat , And prostrate at his Royal feet ; Who knows but pity may him move , To grant the life of him we love . No Cost or Charges did they spare , But readily they did prepare , Five Coaches thus was filled withal , Who hasted straight unto White-Hall ; With Eighteen Damsels all in White , It was a fair and comely sighed . They gained a Favour in this thing , And was admitted to the King ; Where falling low upon their Knee , Before his Princely Majesty : He their Petition did receive , And likewise granted a Reprieve . Upon our most Renowned Prince , They did obtain that influence ; The Spring of Mercy so did flow , To expiate their grief and woe ; And did extend his Clemency , While the fair Maids was standing by . This did renew each drooping heart , Straight from the Court they did depart , It was a Youthful Maiden Train , Which did to him return again : Where he remained in woeful fears , TO oh found glad tidings in his Ears . Then coming where this Youth did lie , In grief and great Extremity , Cheer up , said they , be not cast down , Our Gracious Prince of high Renown , In Mercy now hath pardoned thee , And grants thee Life , and sets thee free . No Tongue is able to express , His true unfeigned thankfulness ; Said he , in Solemn sort I vow , Never to forget his Mercy now : No Branglement shall ever cause Me ever to Violate his Laws . After they had Discoursed a while , Which did his sorrows so beguile ; They all together home did go , Which made a most Delightful show ; Through all the town where ever they came And spread the News on Wings of Fame . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the S [ tation - ] ers-Arms within Aldgate . The Mirror of Mercy , In our Gracious KING's Pardoning of Edward Skelton : Who was Condemned to Die , as being Accessary with Richard Richardson , in the Murder of Henry Howard , Gentleman ; but by the Intercession of Eighteen young Maidens , ob - tained his Majesties most Gracious Pardon for him . To the Tune of , Joy to the Bridegroom : Or , In S ummer time . This may be Printed , R.P. H Eared you not of the Headborough , Who fell into a strange Demur ? By Murdering of a Gentleman , Whose Life , alas ! he did Trappan : He had no reason to proceed In such a bloody Wicked deed . And if I may declare the truth , There likewise went with him a Youth ; One in the Glory of his prime , Proved accessary to the Crime : They both Committed was to Goal , Where they their sorrows might bewail . Since they have this destruction wrought Before the Bar they both were brought ; To prove them Guilty Men , or clear , But as the truth does well appear , They both Condemned was to die , As the Reward of Villainy . When his acquaintance they did hear , That he must lose his life so dear , That he ordained was for Death , And to resign his dearest breath , No tongue is able to declare The sorrow of their grief and care . They all in sorrow did relate . Their grief , for by unhappy Fate , He being well beloved we hear , Of all that lived far and near : In sorrow they lament and grieve , Oh that we could gain his Reprieve ! Since there's no other remedy , We'll to our Royal Majesty ; In humble sort we will entreat , And prostrate at his Royal feet ; Who knows but pity may him move , To grant the life of him we love . No Cost or Charges did they spare , But readily they did prepare , Five Coaches thus was filled withal , Who hasted straight unto White-Hall ; With Eighteen Damsels all in White , It was a fair and comely sighed . They gained a Favour in this thing , And was admitted to the King ; Where falling low upon their Knee , Before his Princely Majesty : He their Petition did receive , And likewise granted a Reprieve . Upon our most Renowned Prince , They did obtain that influence ; The Spring of Mercy so did flow , To expiate their grief and woe ; And did extend his Clemency , While the fair Maids was standing by . This did renew each drooping heart , Straight from the Court they did depart , It was a Youthful Maiden Train , Which did to him return again : Where he remained in woeful fears , TO oh found glad tidings in his Ears . Then coming where this Youth did lie , In grief and great Extremity , Cheer up , said they , be not cast down , Our Gracious Prince of high Renown , In Mercy now hath pardoned thee , And grants thee Life , and sets thee free . No Tongue is able to express , His true unfeigned thankfulness ; Said he , in Solemn sort I vow , Never to forget his Mercy now : No Branglement shall ever cause Me ever to Violate his Laws . After they had Discoursed a while , Which did his sorrows so beguile ; They all together home did go , Which made a most Delightful show ; Through all the town where ever they came And spread the News on Wings of Fame . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the S [ tation - ] ers-Arms within Aldgate . 