MANS Amazement : it being a true Relation of one Thomas Cox , a H ackney-Coach-man , to whom the Devil appeared on friendship - day night , it being the 31st . of October , first in the likeness of a Gentleman , seeming to have a role of P aper or P archment in his hand , afterwards in the likeness of a great Bear with glaring eyes , which so affrighted him , that it deprived him of all his Senses . To the Tune of Digby's Farewell . G Ood People attend now , and I will declare , A wonder as strange as you ever did hear ; It hath been apparent to many ones view , For though it is strange , yet it's certainly true ; The last of October , on Friday at night , A strange apparition a Coachman did fright , In such a strange manner the like was never known , As here by these lines shall plainly be shown . That night near White-Hall he had took up a fair , And then unto Water-Lane he did repair , And when he had set his fare down in the Lane , He drove to the end to return back again ; And as he was driving then easily on The Devil appeared in the shape of a man , And leaning against a great post he did stand ; With likeness of Parchment rolled up in his hand . He called to the Coachman as it did appear , The Coachman Supposing he had been a Fare ; He stopped his horses and came down therefore , And stepped to his Coach and then opened the door , He bid him to drive him to Brides Low Church yard , The Coachman observed him with reverend regard ; For little he thought of that infernal since , And therefore to drive him he then did begin . The horses possessed with a Habit of fear , They snorted and startled as it did appear , The Coachman his hat it fell of to the ground , TO he night being dark it could not be found . TO his gentleman told him though he did not see it His hat it lay under his horses forefeet ; TO here finding his hat and the words to be true , H e then was amazed to think how he knew . But when he god into his Coachbox again , H is horses they startled and could not refrain , TO hus snorting and flouncing being frighted withal , At length he came near to St. Brides church-yard-wall TO he coachman came down from his box in a fright , And said he would drive him no further that night : TO he Devil he held out his hand and did say , H ere's money enough I will bountiful pay . TO hen as he did proffer to feel for his hand , Yet there was no substance he could understand Nor there was no money the coachman could see , TO he Devils a liar and so he will be , Still he in the shape of a man did remain , TO ill he from the coach had descended again ; The Coachman he turning about to his fare , H e then did appear in the from of a Bear . Which did both his heart and his senses surprise , It staring upon him with great flaming eyes And also did seem to make at him amain But he with his whip lashed at it again , And then he did seem to give back and retire , And vanished away in great flashes of fire , Oh this was a sad and deplorable case , TO he flashes did seem for to fly in his face . H e then stepped into his Coach-box straightway , TO he horses run homeward without there delay , TO he coachman was speechless like one almost dead But they took him down and conveyed him to bed Where five or six days he did speechless remain , But then at the length it returned again . Now from his own mouth he hath made it appear , And briefly declared the things mentioned here . H e has lost both the sense and the use of his Limbs , Which is a great cut and a grief to his friends , TO oh see how he lies in a languishing state , Alas this affliction and sorrow is great : TO oh see how he lies and still does remain , It's feared that he never will recover again , H e says if the Lord will his Limbs now restore , H e never will follow the calling no more . There's many hath seen him from both far and near ; From whose just Relation the truth did appear , Now in Baldwins Gardens therein Cradle Court , This man still is living as hundreds report , And those that will take but the pains for to go A further Account of the truth you may know , Yea from his own mouth he will freely unfold , The sum and the substance of what I have told . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur streets . MANS Amazement : it being a true Relation of one Thomas Cox , a H ackney-Coach-man , to whom the Devil appeared on friendship - day night , it being the 31st . of October , first in the likeness of a Gentleman , seeming to have a role of P aper or P archment in his hand , afterwards in the likeness of a great Bear with glaring eyes , which so affrighted him , that it deprived him of all his Senses . To the Tune of Digby's Farewell . G Ood People attend now , and I will declare , A wonder as strange as you ever did hear ; It hath been apparent to many ones view , For though it is strange , yet it's certainly true ; The last of October , on Friday at night , A strange apparition a Coachman did fright , In such a strange manner the like was never known , As here by these lines shall plainly be shown . That night near White-Hall he had took up a fair , And then unto Water-Lane he did repair , And when he had set his fare down in the Lane , He drove to the end to return back again ; And as he was driving then easily on The Devil appeared in the shape of a man , And leaning against a great post he did stand ; With likeness of Parchment rolled up in his hand . He called to the Coachman as it did appear , The Coachman Supposing he had been a Fare ; He stopped his horses and came down therefore , And stepped to his Coach and then opened the door , He bid him to drive him to Brides Low Church yard , The Coachman observed him with reverend regard ; For little he thought of that infernal since , And therefore to drive him he then did begin . The horses possessed with a Habit of fear , They snorted and startled as it did appear , The Coachman his hat it fell of to the ground , TO he night being dark it could not be found . TO his gentleman told him though he did not see it His hat it lay under his horses forefeet ; TO here finding his hat and the words to be true , H e then was amazed to think how he knew . But when he god into his Coachbox again , H is horses they startled and could not refrain , TO hus snorting and flouncing being frighted withal , At length he came near to St. Brides church-yard-wall TO he coachman came down from his box in a fright , And said he would drive him no further that night : TO he Devil he held out his hand and did say , H ere's money enough I will bountiful pay . TO hen as he did proffer to feel for his hand , Yet there was no substance he could understand Nor there was no money the coachman could see , TO he Devils a liar and so he will be , Still he in the shape of a man did remain , TO ill he from the coach had descended again ; The Coachman he turning about to his fare , H e then did appear in the from of a Bear . Which did both his heart and his senses surprise , It staring upon him with great flaming eyes And also did seem to make at him amain But he with his whip lashed at it again , And then he did seem to give back and retire , And vanished away in great flashes of fire , Oh this was a sad and deplorable case , TO he flashes did seem for to fly in his face . H e then stepped into his Coach-box straightway , TO he horses run homeward without there delay , TO he coachman was speechless like one almost dead But they took him down and conveyed him to bed Where five or six days he did speechless remain , But then at the length it returned again . Now from his own mouth he hath made it appear , And briefly declared the things mentioned here . H e has lost both the sense and the use of his Limbs , Which is a great cut and a grief to his friends , TO oh see how he lies in a languishing state , Alas this affliction and sorrow is great : TO oh see how he lies and still does remain , It's feared that he never will recover again , H e says if the Lord will his Limbs now restore , H e never will follow the calling no more . There's many hath seen him from both far and near ; From whose just Relation the truth did appear , Now in Baldwins Gardens therein Cradle Court , This man still is living as hundreds report , And those that will take but the pains for to go A further Account of the truth you may know , Yea from his own mouth he will freely unfold , The sum and the substance of what I have told . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur streets . 