THE Chamberlain's Tragedy : OR , The Cook-Maid's Cruelty ; Being a true Account how she in the heat of Passion , murdered her Fellow-servant ( the Chamberlain ) at and Inn , in the Town of Andever . Tune , Bleeding Heart . Licensed according to Order . Y ou that have melting hearts to grieve , This mournful Ditty pray receive , It's of a bloody Tragedy , Unheard of Matchless cruelty . The which I shall in brief unfold , Therefore dear People , pray behold , The manner of this wicked deed , It needs must make your hearts to bleed . Two Servants in one house did dwell , At Andever , it's known full well ; A Cookmaid and a Chamberlin , Now the relation I'll begin : The one of them was most moross , The other was exceeding cross , So that with heat or passion they , Were still at parlance Day by Day . They acted both , like Tigers wild , They never would be reconciled By any admonition , no , Till passion proved their overthrow . Behold it happened on a day The Chamberlin , he took his way Unto the fireside , where she Was busy at her Cookery . To make a Toast was his intent , But she his purpose would prevent , With Knife in Hand , but still he cried , He valued not her haughty Pride . This raised her passion more and more , So that at length she vowed and swore , That she would stick him to the Heart , If he did not the Room depart : Quoth he , Are you so resolute , Is Blood the heat of your dispute ? Yes , that it is , you Slave , quoth she , Be gone or I shall hang for thee . The Chamberlin replied again , Your swelling words are all in vain ; I do not fear you in the least And thus their passion still increased . Quoth she , I'll not disputing stand , To him she ran with Knife in Hand And wounded him in woeful case , Across his Head and down his Face . The wreaking Blood began to run , But still the Cookmaid had not done ; Till through his Ribs , she thrust the Knife , And so bereaved him of his Life . When she beheld him on the floor , In woeful streams of wreaking gore ; She then bemoaned her dismal state , But this repentance come too late . Thus having his destruction wrought , Before a Justice , she was brought , Who soon committed her to Goal , Where she the Murder does bewail . Often with Tears she does reply Why did my passion rise so high , As for to take his Life away , Alas ! this is a dismal Day ? How shall I answer for my crime , Who gave him not a Minutes time ; To beg a Pardon for his Soul , In sorrow I his Death condole : I can expect no favour here , Who was so cruel and severe , That for a trifle I should be , The auther of his Tragedy . I needs must suffer for the same , And leave this wretched World in shame ; But woe is me , that is not all , His Blood does for just vengeance call . The time I have to live , I'll spend , In making God my special friend , That when this painful life I leave , He may in love my Soul receive . You Serants all both far anear , That does my sad relation hear ; Labour to live in Love I pray , lest passion should your Lives decay . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guiltspur-street . THE Chamberlain's Tragedy : OR , The Cook-Maid's Cruelty ; Being a true Account how she in the heat of Passion , murdered her Fellow-servant ( the Chamberlain ) at and Inn , in the Town of Andever . Tune , Bleeding Heart . Licensed according to Order . Y ou that have melting hearts to grieve , This mournful Ditty pray receive , It's of a bloody Tragedy , Unheard of Matchless cruelty . The which I shall in brief unfold , Therefore dear People , pray behold , The manner of this wicked deed , It needs must make your hearts to bleed . Two Servants in one house did dwell , At Andever , it's known full well ; A Cookmaid and a Chamberlin , Now the relation I'll begin : The one of them was most moross , The other was exceeding cross , So that with heat or passion they , Were still at parlance Day by Day . They acted both , like Tigers wild , They never would be reconciled By any admonition , no , Till passion proved their overthrow . Behold it happened on a day The Chamberlin , he took his way Unto the fireside , where she Was busy at her Cookery . To make a Toast was his intent , But she his purpose would prevent , With Knife in Hand , but still he cried , He valued not her haughty Pride . This raised her passion more and more , So that at length she vowed and swore , That she would stick him to the Heart , If he did not the Room depart : Quoth he , Are you so resolute , Is Blood the heat of your dispute ? Yes , that it is , you Slave , quoth she , Be gone or I shall hang for thee . The Chamberlin replied again , Your swelling words are all in vain ; I do not fear you in the least And thus their passion still increased . Quoth she , I'll not disputing stand , To him she ran with Knife in Hand And wounded him in woeful case , Across his Head and down his Face . The wreaking Blood began to run , But still the Cookmaid had not done ; Till through his Ribs , she thrust the Knife , And so bereaved him of his Life . When she beheld him on the floor , In woeful streams of wreaking gore ; She then bemoaned her dismal state , But this repentance come too late . Thus having his destruction wrought , Before a Justice , she was brought , Who soon committed her to Goal , Where she the Murder does bewail . Often with Tears she does reply Why did my passion rise so high , As for to take his Life away , Alas ! this is a dismal Day ? How shall I answer for my crime , Who gave him not a Minutes time ; To beg a Pardon for his Soul , In sorrow I his Death condole : I can expect no favour here , Who was so cruel and severe , That for a trifle I should be , The auther of his Tragedy . I needs must suffer for the same , And leave this wretched World in shame ; But woe is me , that is not all , His Blood does for just vengeance call . The time I have to live , I'll spend , In making God my special friend , That when this painful life I leave , He may in love my Soul receive . You Serants all both far anear , That does my sad relation hear ; Labour to live in Love I pray , lest passion should your Lives decay . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guiltspur-street . 