A New Ballad of Three Merry Butchers AND Ten High-Way Men , how three Butchers went to pay Five Hundred Pounds away , and hearing a Woman crying in a Wood , went to relieve her , and was there set upon by these Ten High-Way Men , and how only stout Johnson fought with them all , who killed Eight of the Ten , and last was killed by the Woman whom he went to save out of the Wood . To and Excellant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . I'll tell you of a story of lovly Butchers three , There's Wilson , Gibson , Johnson , mark well what I shall say , For they took Five Hundred Pounds Sir for to pay it all away , For they took Five Hundred sir for to pay it all away . As they rid on the Road sir , and as fast as they could trig , Strike up your hearts says Johnson for weel have a merry jgg With a high ding ding , with a hoe ding ding , with a high ding ding dee , and God bless all good people from evil company . As they rid on the Road sir , as fast as they could high , Strike up your hearts says Johnson , for I hear a woman cry , With that he steps into the Wood , and looks himself all round , & amp ; there he spied a woman with her hair bound unto the ground . O woman , Oh woman , quoth Johnson , hast thou no evil company Oh no , Oh no , says the woman , and alack how can that be , F or there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me , F or there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me . Johnson being of a valiant heart , and he boar a valiant mind ; He wrapped his Cloak about her , for to keep her from the wind . with a high ding ding , with a hoe ding ding , with a high ding ding dee , and God bless all good people from evil company . Strike up your hearts says Johnson for its dark all in the sky She put her finger in her Ear , and she gave a shrieking cry ; With that there came Ten swaggering Blades with their weapons ready drawn ? And they boldly came to Johnson , and bolder bid him stand ; I will not fight says Wilson , for I had rather die , Or I to fight says Gibson , for I had rather [ fl ] ie : Come on , come on says Johnson , and fight a man so free , Or stand you still behind my back , and I'll win the Victory ; Then Johnsons Pistols they flew off , till five of them were slave , And then he drew his Hanger with all his might and main , And played it about so manfully , till Three more he had slave , And played it about so manfully , till Three more he had slave . Come on , come on , says the other two , and let us make away , For if that we do hold him tooed , our lives he takes away : Oh no , Oh no , quoth the woman , and alack how can that be , For if you do not hold him to't then hanged you shall be , Johnson fighting these two thieves before , the woman he did not mind , And a sighing these two thieves before , she knocked him down behind , Oh woman , Oh woman , quoth Johnson , alack what have you done You have killed the bravest Butcher that ever England wone . Just as she had killed him , there came one riding by And saw the deed which she had done , and seized her presently , She was condemned for to be hanged in Iron Chains so strong At the place where she did Johnson that great & amp ; mighty wrong . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West - smithfield . A New Ballad of Three Merry Butchers AND Ten High-Way Men , how three Butchers went to pay Five Hundred Pounds away , and hearing a Woman crying in a Wood , went to relieve her , and was there set upon by these Ten High-Way Men , and how only stout Johnson fought with them all , who killed Eight of the Ten , and last was killed by the Woman whom he went to save out of the Wood . To and Excellant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . I'll tell you of a story of lovly Butchers three , There's Wilson , Gibson , Johnson , mark well what I shall say , For they took Five Hundred Pounds Sir for to pay it all away , For they took Five Hundred sir for to pay it all away . As they rid on the Road sir , and as fast as they could trig , Strike up your hearts says Johnson for weel have a merry jgg With a high ding ding , with a hoe ding ding , with a high ding ding dee , and God bless all good people from evil company . As they rid on the Road sir , as fast as they could high , Strike up your hearts says Johnson , for I hear a woman cry , With that he steps into the Wood , and looks himself all round , & amp ; there he spied a woman with her hair bound unto the ground . O woman , Oh woman , quoth Johnson , hast thou no evil company Oh no , Oh no , says the woman , and alack how can that be , F or there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me , F or there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me . Johnson being of a valiant heart , and he boar a valiant mind ; He wrapped his Cloak about her , for to keep her from the wind . with a high ding ding , with a hoe ding ding , with a high ding ding dee , and God bless all good people from evil company . Strike up your hearts says Johnson for its dark all in the sky She put her finger in her Ear , and she gave a shrieking cry ; With that there came Ten swaggering Blades with their weapons ready drawn ? And they boldly came to Johnson , and bolder bid him stand ; I will not fight says Wilson , for I had rather die , Or I to fight says Gibson , for I had rather [ fl ] ie : Come on , come on says Johnson , and fight a man so free , Or stand you still behind my back , and I'll win the Victory ; Then Johnsons Pistols they flew off , till five of them were slave , And then he drew his Hanger with all his might and main , And played it about so manfully , till Three more he had slave , And played it about so manfully , till Three more he had slave . Come on , come on , says the other two , and let us make away , For if that we do hold him tooed , our lives he takes away : Oh no , Oh no , quoth the woman , and alack how can that be , For if you do not hold him to't then hanged you shall be , Johnson fighting these two thieves before , the woman he did not mind , And a sighing these two thieves before , she knocked him down behind , Oh woman , Oh woman , quoth Johnson , alack what have you done You have killed the bravest Butcher that ever England wone . Just as she had killed him , there came one riding by And saw the deed which she had done , and seized her presently , She was condemned for to be hanged in Iron Chains so strong At the place where she did Johnson that great & amp ; mighty wrong . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West - smithfield . 