THE Murderers Lamentation : BEING And Account of John Jewster and William Butler , who where arraigned and found guile - ty of the Robbery and Murder of Mrs. Jane Le-grand ; for which they received due Sentence of Death , and was accordingly Executed on the 19th day of this Instant July , in Spittle-fields . Tune of , Russel's farewell , etc O Most unhappy men we are , this sad and dismal day , Wrapped us in sorrow , grief , and care , alas , what shall we say ? The dying hearts within us bleed , for mercy , Lord , we cry , Though for a most unchristian deed , we are condemned to die . Pale death this morning we behold , with hearts as cold as stone ; Why did we covet cursed gold , which never was our own ? It has our sad destruction wrought , and for this villainy , Alas , we are to justice brought , in open shame to die . My name is Jewster , I confess , that first the plot did lay , Yet did I not the least express , they should her life betray ; But Butler entered first the room , to act that villainy : And now we both receive our doom , in open shame we die . I to my shame have done amiss , be'ng a relation near ; Of such a horrid crime at this , the worst shall seldom hear ; That I with ruffians should combine to act that villainy , For which I must my breath resine , in open shame we die . First Satan tempted us to steal ; we did contract that guilt , And that we might the same conceal , her aged blood we spilled ; Thus we from since to since did go , in highth of villainy , And this has wrought our overthrow , in open shame we die . Alas , let me do what I can , declare the truth I must , I Butler was the very man , that stopped her breath at first ; By violence I seized her throat , o horrid villainy ; My soul on seas of grief does float , as being brought to die . Her lodger we did then surprise with the same violence , Stopping her mouth with rags likewise , depriving her of sense ; Yet she her reason soon obtained the truth to testify , When at the bar we was arraigned and eke condemned to die . One being dead , the other bound , we rifled then the store , For strait in ready cash we found , nine hundred pounds and more ; We filled our pockets with the same , this done , we strait did fly , Yet we was took and brought to shame , being condemned to die . Since in the blood of innocent our hands we did embrue ; Although in heart we do lament , this death is but our due ; Let others a fair warning take , by this our distany , Who must in shame the world forsake , as being brought to die . Good Lord , in pity us behold , thy love we do implore , For though our sins are manifold , thy mercies Lord are more ; Though we on earth thy laws did break , yet as this life we leave , Oh save us for thy mercies sake , our sinful souls receive . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE Murderers Lamentation : BEING And Account of John Jewster and William Butler , who where arraigned and found guile - ty of the Robbery and Murder of Mrs. Jane Le-grand ; for which they received due Sentence of Death , and was accordingly Executed on the 19th day of this Instant July , in Spittle-fields . Tune of , Russel's farewell , etc O Most unhappy men we are , this sad and dismal day , Wrapped us in sorrow , grief , and care , alas , what shall we say ? The dying hearts within us bleed , for mercy , Lord , we cry , Though for a most unchristian deed , we are condemned to die . Pale death this morning we behold , with hearts as cold as stone ; Why did we covet cursed gold , which never was our own ? It has our sad destruction wrought , and for this villainy , Alas , we are to justice brought , in open shame to die . My name is Jewster , I confess , that first the plot did lay , Yet did I not the least express , they should her life betray ; But Butler entered first the room , to act that villainy : And now we both receive our doom , in open shame we die . I to my shame have done amiss , be'ng a relation near ; Of such a horrid crime at this , the worst shall seldom hear ; That I with ruffians should combine to act that villainy , For which I must my breath resine , in open shame we die . First Satan tempted us to steal ; we did contract that guilt , And that we might the same conceal , her aged blood we spilled ; Thus we from since to since did go , in highth of villainy , And this has wrought our overthrow , in open shame we die . Alas , let me do what I can , declare the truth I must , I Butler was the very man , that stopped her breath at first ; By violence I seized her throat , o horrid villainy ; My soul on seas of grief does float , as being brought to die . Her lodger we did then surprise with the same violence , Stopping her mouth with rags likewise , depriving her of sense ; Yet she her reason soon obtained the truth to testify , When at the bar we was arraigned and eke condemned to die . One being dead , the other bound , we rifled then the store , For strait in ready cash we found , nine hundred pounds and more ; We filled our pockets with the same , this done , we strait did fly , Yet we was took and brought to shame , being condemned to die . Since in the blood of innocent our hands we did embrue ; Although in heart we do lament , this death is but our due ; Let others a fair warning take , by this our distany , Who must in shame the world forsake , as being brought to die . Good Lord , in pity us behold , thy love we do implore , For though our sins are manifold , thy mercies Lord are more ; Though we on earth thy laws did break , yet as this life we leave , Oh save us for thy mercies sake , our sinful souls receive . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 