THE Unfortunate WELCH-MAN ; OR The Untimely Death of Scotch JOCKEY If her will Fight , her cause to right , as daring to presume To Kill and Slay , then well her may take this to be her Doom . To the Tune of , The Country-Farmer . This may be Printed , R. P. S Tout Shonny-ap-morgan to L ondon would ride , To seek Cousin Taffie what ever betide , Her own Sisters Son , whom her loved so dear , Her had not beheld him this many long year : Betimes in the morning stout Shonny arose , And then on the journey with courage her goes , A Cossit of grey was the best of her clothes , Her Boots they were out at the heels and toes . A Sword by her side , and with Bob the grey Mare , Her rid on the road like a Champion so rare , At last how it happened to her hard lot , To meet with young Jockey , a bonny brisk Scot : Then Jockey was jolly , and thus he did say , Let's gang to the Tavern , drink wine by my faith , Then Shonny consented , and made no delay , But Jockey left Shonny the reckoning to pay . While Morgan was merry , and thinking no ill , The Scotchman he used the best of his skill , Considering how he might scamper away , For why Sir , he never intended to pay , But like a false Loon he slipped out of doors , And never intended to come there no more , Poor Shonny-a-Morgan was left for the score , [ Cut-zo ] her was never so served before . Her paying the Shot , then away her went , The Welch Blood was up , and her mind was bent . For speedy pursuing he then did prepare , Then Morgan did mount upon Bob the Gray-Mare , Then Whip and Spur stout Shonny did ride , And overtook Jockey near to a Woodside , And pulled out her Sword in the height of her Pride And wounded poor Jockey who suddenly died . Then Shonney was taken and hurried to Jail , Where her till the Sessions did week and bewail , And then at the last , by the Laws of the Land , Was brought to the Bar to hold up her hand : Oh good her Lord Shudge , poor Shonny did cry , Now whip her and send her to Wales her Country , Or cut off a Leg , or and arm , or and Eye , For her is undone if Condemned to die . But this would not do , poor Shonny was cast , And likewise received her Sentence at last , A Gentleman Robber just at the same time , Received just Sentence then due for his crime : Then Shonny-a-morgan her shed many tears , Her heart was possessed with sorrow and fears , The Gentleman-Thief likewise hung down his ears For then he expected his ancient arrears . The day being come they must both bid adieu , Forsaking the world and the rest of their crew , The Spark was attired so gallant and gay , But Shonny was poor and in ragged array : Then when they came both to the Gibbet-Tree , The Gentleman gave to the Hangman a fee , And said let this Welch - M and hang farther from me So vile and so ragged a Rascal is he . The Welch-man he herd him , and was in a rage , That nothing almost could his passion assuage ; But fretting and chaffing he thus did begin , Her will make her know that her came of good kin , Beside , her will tell her his hearty belief , That her is no more then a Gentleman thief , That robbed on the Roads , and the plain , & amp ; the heath , Her now will Hang by her in spite of her teeth . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street : THE Unfortunate WELCH-MAN ; OR The Untimely Death of Scotch JOCKEY If her will Fight , her cause to right , as daring to presume To Kill and Slay , then well her may take this to be her Doom . To the Tune of , The Country-Farmer . This may be Printed , R. P. S Tout Shonny-ap-morgan to L ondon would ride , To seek Cousin Taffie what ever betide , Her own Sisters Son , whom her loved so dear , Her had not beheld him this many long year : Betimes in the morning stout Shonny arose , And then on the journey with courage her goes , A Cossit of grey was the best of her clothes , Her Boots they were out at the heels and toes . A Sword by her side , and with Bob the grey Mare , Her rid on the road like a Champion so rare , At last how it happened to her hard lot , To meet with young Jockey , a bonny brisk Scot : Then Jockey was jolly , and thus he did say , Let's gang to the Tavern , drink wine by my faith , Then Shonny consented , and made no delay , But Jockey left Shonny the reckoning to pay . While Morgan was merry , and thinking no ill , The Scotchman he used the best of his skill , Considering how he might scamper away , For why Sir , he never intended to pay , But like a false Loon he slipped out of doors , And never intended to come there no more , Poor Shonny-a-Morgan was left for the score , [ Cut-zo ] her was never so served before . Her paying the Shot , then away her went , The Welch Blood was up , and her mind was bent . For speedy pursuing he then did prepare , Then Morgan did mount upon Bob the Gray-Mare , Then Whip and Spur stout Shonny did ride , And overtook Jockey near to a Woodside , And pulled out her Sword in the height of her Pride And wounded poor Jockey who suddenly died . Then Shonney was taken and hurried to Jail , Where her till the Sessions did week and bewail , And then at the last , by the Laws of the Land , Was brought to the Bar to hold up her hand : Oh good her Lord Shudge , poor Shonny did cry , Now whip her and send her to Wales her Country , Or cut off a Leg , or and arm , or and Eye , For her is undone if Condemned to die . But this would not do , poor Shonny was cast , And likewise received her Sentence at last , A Gentleman Robber just at the same time , Received just Sentence then due for his crime : Then Shonny-a-morgan her shed many tears , Her heart was possessed with sorrow and fears , The Gentleman-Thief likewise hung down his ears For then he expected his ancient arrears . The day being come they must both bid adieu , Forsaking the world and the rest of their crew , The Spark was attired so gallant and gay , But Shonny was poor and in ragged array : Then when they came both to the Gibbet-Tree , The Gentleman gave to the Hangman a fee , And said let this Welch - M and hang farther from me So vile and so ragged a Rascal is he . The Welch-man he herd him , and was in a rage , That nothing almost could his passion assuage ; But fretting and chaffing he thus did begin , Her will make her know that her came of good kin , Beside , her will tell her his hearty belief , That her is no more then a Gentleman thief , That robbed on the Roads , and the plain , & amp ; the heath , Her now will Hang by her in spite of her teeth . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street : 