The Lamentable and Tragical History of Titus Andronicus ; with the Fallen of his 25 Sons , in the Wars of Goths , with the manner of the Ravishment of his Daughter La [ vini ] a by the Empresses two Sons , through the means of a Bloody Moor , taken by the Sword of Titus , in the War ; with his Revenge upon their Cruel and Inhumane Act. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . Y Ou Noble minds , and famous Martial Wights , That in defence of Native Countries fights , Give ear to me that ten years fought for Rome , Yet reaped disgrace at my returning home . In Room I lived in fame full threescore years My name beloved was of all my peers , Full five and twenty valiant Sons I had , Whose forward virtues made their Father glad , For when Romes foes their warlike forces felt Against them still my Sons and I were sent ; Against the Goths full ten years weary war We spent , receiving many a bloody scar . Just two and twenty of my sons were slave , Before I did return to R ome again ; Of five and twenty Sons I brought but three Alive , the stately tower of Room to see . When wars were done , I conquest home did bring , And did present my prisoners to the King : The Queen of Goths , her Sons , and eke a Moor , Who did such Murders like were none before . The Emperor did make the Queen his wife , Which bred in Rome debate and deadly strife : The Moor with her two Sons did grow so proud , That none like them in Room might be allowed . The moor so pleased this new Empress eye That she consented to him secretly : For to abuse her husbands Marriage bed , And so in time a Blackamoor she bred . Then she whose thoughts to Murder was inclined Consented with the moor with bloody mind , Against my self , my kin , and all my friends , In cruel sort to bring them to their ends . So when in age I thought to live in peace , Both care and grief began then to increase ; among my Sons I had one daughter bright , Which joyed and pleased best my aged sighed . My Lavinia was betrothed then To Caesers Son , a young and noble man : Who in a hunting , by the Emperor's wife And her two Sons , bereft were of life . He being slave was cast in cruel wise , Into a darksome den from light of Skies , The cruel moor did come that way as then , With my three Sons who fell into the den . The Moor then fetched the Emperor with speed , For to accuse them of that murderous deed : And when my Sons within the den was found , In wrongful prison were they cast and bound . B [ U ] tO now behold what wounded most my mind The Empresses two Sons of Tigers kind My Daughter ravished without remorse , And took away her honour quite perforce . When they had tasted of so sweet a Flower , Fearing this sweet should turned be to sour : They cut her tongue whereby she could not tell How that dishonour unto her befell . Then both her hands they basely cut off quite , Whereby their wickedness she could not write Nor with her needle on her sampler Sow , The bloody workers of her dismal woe . My Brother Marcus found her in the wood , Staining the grassy ground with purple blood That trickled from her stumps & amp ; handless arms No tongue at all she had to tell her harms , But when I saw her in that woeful case , With tears of blood I wet my aged face ; For my Lavinia I lamented more , Then for my two and twenty sons before . When as I saw she could not write nor speak With grief my aged heart began to break , We spread a heap of sand upon the Ground , Whereby the bloody Tyrants out we found . For with a staff without the help of hand , She writ these words upon a plate of Sand : The lustful Sons of the proud Emperess , Are doers of this hateful wickedness . I tore the milkwhite hairs from off my head I cursed the hour wherein I first was bred , I wished the hand that fought for Countries fame In cradle rocked had first been strucken lame . The Moor delighting still in villainy , Did say to set my Sons from prison free , I should unto the King my right hand give And then my three imprisoned sons should live The Moor I caused to strike it off with speed , Whereat I grieved not to see it bleed , But for my Sons would willingly impart , And for their ransom send my bleeding heart . But as my life did linger thus in vain , They send to me my bootless hand again : And therewithal the heads of my three Sons , Which filled my dying heart with fresher groan Then past relief I up and down did go And with my tears writ in the dust my woe , I shot my arrows towards heaven high And for revenge to hell did often cry . The Empress thinking then that I was mad , Like furies she and both her Sons were glad : So named revenge , and rape on murder they , To undermine and hear what I would say . I fed their foolish veins a little space , Until my friends did find a secret place , Where both her Sons unto a post was bound , Where just revenge in cruel sort was found . I cut their throats , my daughter held the pan Betwixt her stumps , wherein the blood it ran : And then I ground their bones to powder small And made a past for Pies straight therewithal . Then with their flesh I made two mighty pies , And at a banquet served in stately wise : Before the Empress set this loathsome meat , So of her sons own flesh she well did eat . My self bereaved my Daughter then of life , The Empress then I slew with bloody Knife , And stabbed the Emperor immediately , And then my self , even so did Titus die . Then this revenge against the Moor was found , Alive they set him half into the ground ; Whereas he stood until such time he starved , And so God send all Murderers may be served . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Lamentable and Tragical History of Titus Andronicus ; with the Fallen of his 25 Sons , in the Wars of Goths , with the manner of the Ravishment of his Daughter La [ vini ] a by the Empresses two Sons , through the means of a Bloody Moor , taken by the Sword of Titus , in the War ; with his Revenge upon their Cruel and Inhumane Act. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . Y Ou Noble minds , and famous Martial Wights , That in defence of Native Countries fights , Give ear to me that ten years fought for Rome , Yet reaped disgrace at my returning home . In Room I lived in fame full threescore years My name beloved was of all my peers , Full five and twenty valiant Sons I had , Whose forward virtues made their Father glad , For when Romes foes their warlike forces felt Against them still my Sons and I were sent ; Against the Goths full ten years weary war We spent , receiving many a bloody scar . Just two and twenty of my sons were slave , Before I did return to R ome again ; Of five and twenty Sons I brought but three Alive , the stately tower of Room to see . When wars were done , I conquest home did bring , And did present my prisoners to the King : The Queen of Goths , her Sons , and eke a Moor , Who did such Murders like were none before . The Emperor did make the Queen his wife , Which bred in Rome debate and deadly strife : The Moor with her two Sons did grow so proud , That none like them in Room might be allowed . The moor so pleased this new Empress eye That she consented to him secretly : For to abuse her husbands Marriage bed , And so in time a Blackamoor she bred . Then she whose thoughts to Murder was inclined Consented with the moor with bloody mind , Against my self , my kin , and all my friends , In cruel sort to bring them to their ends . So when in age I thought to live in peace , Both care and grief began then to increase ; among my Sons I had one daughter bright , Which joyed and pleased best my aged sighed . My Lavinia was betrothed then To Caesers Son , a young and noble man : Who in a hunting , by the Emperor's wife And her two Sons , bereft were of life . He being slave was cast in cruel wise , Into a darksome den from light of Skies , The cruel moor did come that way as then , With my three Sons who fell into the den . The Moor then fetched the Emperor with speed , For to accuse them of that murderous deed : And when my Sons within the den was found , In wrongful prison were they cast and bound . B [ U ] tO now behold what wounded most my mind The Empresses two Sons of Tigers kind My Daughter ravished without remorse , And took away her honour quite perforce . When they had tasted of so sweet a Flower , Fearing this sweet should turned be to sour : They cut her tongue whereby she could not tell How that dishonour unto her befell . Then both her hands they basely cut off quite , Whereby their wickedness she could not write Nor with her needle on her sampler Sow , The bloody workers of her dismal woe . My Brother Marcus found her in the wood , Staining the grassy ground with purple blood That trickled from her stumps & amp ; handless arms No tongue at all she had to tell her harms , But when I saw her in that woeful case , With tears of blood I wet my aged face ; For my Lavinia I lamented more , Then for my two and twenty sons before . When as I saw she could not write nor speak With grief my aged heart began to break , We spread a heap of sand upon the Ground , Whereby the bloody Tyrants out we found . For with a staff without the help of hand , She writ these words upon a plate of Sand : The lustful Sons of the proud Emperess , Are doers of this hateful wickedness . I tore the milkwhite hairs from off my head I cursed the hour wherein I first was bred , I wished the hand that fought for Countries fame In cradle rocked had first been strucken lame . The Moor delighting still in villainy , Did say to set my Sons from prison free , I should unto the King my right hand give And then my three imprisoned sons should live The Moor I caused to strike it off with speed , Whereat I grieved not to see it bleed , But for my Sons would willingly impart , And for their ransom send my bleeding heart . But as my life did linger thus in vain , They send to me my bootless hand again : And therewithal the heads of my three Sons , Which filled my dying heart with fresher groan Then past relief I up and down did go And with my tears writ in the dust my woe , I shot my arrows towards heaven high And for revenge to hell did often cry . The Empress thinking then that I was mad , Like furies she and both her Sons were glad : So named revenge , and rape on murder they , To undermine and hear what I would say . I fed their foolish veins a little space , Until my friends did find a secret place , Where both her Sons unto a post was bound , Where just revenge in cruel sort was found . I cut their throats , my daughter held the pan Betwixt her stumps , wherein the blood it ran : And then I ground their bones to powder small And made a past for Pies straight therewithal . Then with their flesh I made two mighty pies , And at a banquet served in stately wise : Before the Empress set this loathsome meat , So of her sons own flesh she well did eat . My self bereaved my Daughter then of life , The Empress then I slew with bloody Knife , And stabbed the Emperor immediately , And then my self , even so did Titus die . Then this revenge against the Moor was found , Alive they set him half into the ground ; Whereas he stood until such time he starved , And so God send all Murderers may be served . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 