Francis Winter's last Farewell : OR , THE White-Fryers Captain's Confession and Lamentation , Just before his Execution at the Gate of White-Fryers , on the 17th of this instant May , 1693. Tune of , Russel ' s Farewell . B Ehold these sorrows now this day , you that are standers by , All former joys are fleed away , now I am brought to die : My heart is filled with fear and dread , for here is no relief , Since I a sinful life have led , I nothing see but Grief . I spent my days with roaring boys , and little thought of death , But where are all those fading joys , now I must lose my breath : Now they are clearly fleed from me , and there is no relief , Alas ! alas ! I nothing see , but bitter clouds of Grief . Alas ! the follies of my youth comes fresh into my mind ; Had I been guided by the truth , then had I left behind A better name then now I shall , alas ! here's no relief ; I by the hand of justice fallen , and nothing see but Grief . Bold Francis Winter is my name , who seemed to bear the sway , But now , alas ! in open shame I do appear this day : My former joys have taken flight , for here is no relief ; Grim Death appears this day in sighed , which fills my soul with Grief . I must acknowledge this is true , that when in arms we rose , I was the captain of that crew which did the sheriff oppose : It's said a man was slave by me , therefore here's no relief , For I must executed be , and nothing see but Grief . Whither I killed the man or no , I cannot justly But since in arms we we seemed to disobey The city's lawful magistrate ; therefore here's no relief . And I must here submit to fate , I nothing see but Grief . It was against the wholesome laws of this my native land , To rise in arms , and be the cause of that rebellious band , Who broke through law and justice too , of which I was the chief , For which I bid the world adieu ; I nothing see but Grief . Let my misfortunes teach the rest obedience to the laws ; Let them not magistrates molest , for that has been the cause Of shedding blood , for which I die , I being there the chief ; The very minute's drawing night , I nothing see but Grief . I ofrentimes have wished , in vain , that I had not been there ; Nay , were it to be done again , I should that deed forbear , And not myself with such enthral , though then I was the chief ; But what is past , I can't recall , I nothing see but Grief . The thousands that are standing by , alas ! you little know My inward grief and misery , and what I undergo : Oh let me have your prayers this day , my sorrows here condole : I now have nothing more to say , but , Lord receive my soul . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Francis Winter's last Farewell : OR , THE White-Fryers Captain's Confession and Lamentation , Just before his Execution at the Gate of White-Fryers , on the 17th of this instant May , 1693. Tune of , Russel ' s Farewell . B Ehold these sorrows now this day , you that are standers by , All former joys are fleed away , now I am brought to die : My heart is filled with fear and dread , for here is no relief , Since I a sinful life have led , I nothing see but Grief . I spent my days with roaring boys , and little thought of death , But where are all those fading joys , now I must lose my breath : Now they are clearly fleed from me , and there is no relief , Alas ! alas ! I nothing see , but bitter clouds of Grief . Alas ! the follies of my youth comes fresh into my mind ; Had I been guided by the truth , then had I left behind A better name then now I shall , alas ! here's no relief ; I by the hand of justice fallen , and nothing see but Grief . Bold Francis Winter is my name , who seemed to bear the sway , But now , alas ! in open shame I do appear this day : My former joys have taken flight , for here is no relief ; Grim Death appears this day in sighed , which fills my soul with Grief . I must acknowledge this is true , that when in arms we rose , I was the captain of that crew which did the sheriff oppose : It's said a man was slave by me , therefore here's no relief , For I must executed be , and nothing see but Grief . Whither I killed the man or no , I cannot justly But since in arms we we seemed to disobey The city's lawful magistrate ; therefore here's no relief . And I must here submit to fate , I nothing see but Grief . It was against the wholesome laws of this my native land , To rise in arms , and be the cause of that rebellious band , Who broke through law and justice too , of which I was the chief , For which I bid the world adieu ; I nothing see but Grief . Let my misfortunes teach the rest obedience to the laws ; Let them not magistrates molest , for that has been the cause Of shedding blood , for which I die , I being there the chief ; The very minute's drawing night , I nothing see but Grief . I ofrentimes have wished , in vain , that I had not been there ; Nay , were it to be done again , I should that deed forbear , And not myself with such enthral , though then I was the chief ; But what is past , I can't recall , I nothing see but Grief . The thousands that are standing by , alas ! you little know My inward grief and misery , and what I undergo : Oh let me have your prayers this day , my sorrows here condole : I now have nothing more to say , but , Lord receive my soul . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 