The Injured Children , OR , The Bloody Midwife ; Being A Discovery of Barbarous Cruelty to several Children that had been made away , and buried privately in a Seller , and two hid dead in a Hand-basket . Tune of , Russel's Farewell . O ! what a wicked Age is this , we Wretches do live in , How prove we are to Wickedness , and to commit each since ; No day but does produce new Fact of Villainy I say , Some Thieve , some Murders basely act , this is done day by day . But of all Baseness none can tell a wickeder indeed , For when I think upon it well , it makes my Heart to bleed ; A Midwife which at Poplar dwelled , now Newgate is her doom , It's said she several Children killed , and hid them under Ground . She left a Boy and Girl at home , beside and infant small , And left them no Provision , which made the Children bawl : They cried so loud the Neighbours herd who went for their Relief , The Boy immediately declared their Misery and Grief . I'th' Seller on a Shelf thats high a Basket there you'll find , And in it two dead Children lie , which terrify [ s ] my Mind : They went and found it to be true , a dismal Spectacle , O wretched Woman , why did you these little Infants kill . I'th' Seller by the Boys advice , they dug up and down , Where six poor Children's carcases immediately were found . Their Skulls and Boars were taken up , a dismal sighed to see , O Midwife , Midwife , what madest thou bury them privately . Some say they're By-blows she did take , Or Bastards , which you will And all was for the Moneys sake , these infants must be killed ; For it's supposed a sum for good she with a Child did take , But o ! such [ ? ] n [ ? ] rseries for Blood , would makes one heart to ache . What Grief and Trouble there must be , to those that have put out Their Children to her Custody , since now the Murder's out ; No less than eight poor Childyen found , thought to be made away , Six private buried under ground , two in a Basket lay . You Mother's that have Children sure , you never will Money give , That you for that may never more your Child see while you live , For it's a comfort for to see , the Mother Nurse its Child , And then no Midwives Cruelty can ever you beguile . Printed and Sold by T. More , The Injured Children , OR , The Bloody Midwife ; Being A Discovery of Barbarous Cruelty to several Children that had been made away , and buried privately in a Seller , and two hid dead in a Hand-basket . Tune of , Russel's Farewell . O ! what a wicked Age is this , we Wretches do live in , How prove we are to Wickedness , and to commit each since ; No day but does produce new Fact of Villainy I say , Some Thieve , some Murders basely act , this is done day by day . But of all Baseness none can tell a wickeder indeed , For when I think upon it well , it makes my Heart to bleed ; A Midwife which at Poplar dwelled , now Newgate is her doom , It's said she several Children killed , and hid them under Ground . She left a Boy and Girl at home , beside and infant small , And left them no Provision , which made the Children bawl : They cried so loud the Neighbours herd who went for their Relief , The Boy immediately declared their Misery and Grief . I'th' Seller on a Shelf thats high a Basket there you'll find , And in it two dead Children lie , which terrify [ s ] my Mind : They went and found it to be true , a dismal Spectacle , O wretched Woman , why did you these little Infants kill . I'th' Seller by the Boys advice , they dug up and down , Where six poor Children's carcases immediately were found . Their Skulls and Boars were taken up , a dismal sighed to see , O Midwife , Midwife , what madest thou bury them privately . Some say they're By-blows she did take , Or Bastards , which you will And all was for the Moneys sake , these infants must be killed ; For it's supposed a sum for good she with a Child did take , But o ! such [ ? ] n [ ? ] rseries for Blood , would makes one heart to ache . What Grief and Trouble there must be , to those that have put out Their Children to her Custody , since now the Murder's out ; No less than eight poor Childyen found , thought to be made away , Six private buried under ground , two in a Basket lay . You Mother's that have Children sure , you never will Money give , That you for that may never more your Child see while you live , For it's a comfort for to see , the Mother Nurse its Child , And then no Midwives Cruelty can ever you beguile . Printed and Sold by T. More , 