The Midwife of Poplar's Sorrowful Confession and Lamentation in Newgate Who was Condemned to Die for that Horrid and Unheard of Murder , which she committed on the Bodies of several young infants , whom she Starved to Death , and was accordingly E xecuted for the same in H olbourn , upon the 23d . of this instant Oh ctober , 1693. Tune of , Russels last Farewell . Licensed according to Order . I Am the worst of Womenkind , Compton it is my Name , I was to Cruelty inclined , and do Repent the same , But Oh! I wish I never had done that wicked deed , for why , My Thread of Life is almost spun , now I'm Condemned to die . In Poplar near fair London Town , 'twas there that I did dwell , My Murders calls just Vengeance down , for they do far excel The worst of Villains in the Land , as every one may own , The very truth to understand would melt a heart of stone . For three and thirty years ago , I Midwife did begin , And of late years assurely know , I have been murdering ; Sweet Infants from their Mother's Womb , Oh! wretched Creature , I Starving did make their Dismal Doom , for which I now must die . My maid and I did go from Home , as being not afraid , And left three Children all alone , thus was I then betrayed , A little Boy and Girl I left , to Nurse and infant young , Who was of life almost bereft , thus I the Babes did wrong . I left none but Water and Cheese , to feed the Babe that cried , At which sad grief did greatly seize Neighbours on every side , The Boy he told unto them then , that they might find two more , Young Infants in a basket dead , upon a shelf below . This sighed did much amaze them all , so soon as they were found , Vermin did there about them craul , as they lay above ground , Then they dug up the Cellar floor , directed by the Boy , And there they found two or three more , all which I did destroy . The Babe that in the Cradle lay , did cry for Nourishment , They put it out to Nurse straightway , who soon to dress it went , And as she took the Linen off to dress it unto bed , The very Ears were rotted off from this poor Infants head . O Cruel Wretch , what shall I do , a Monster to all good , That could my bloody hands embrue in little Infants blood , How could I slumber Night or Day , or take one wink of rest , While pretty Murdered Infants lay , which might my sleep molest . But I alas ! was Seized at last , and unto Justice brought , And as along the Streets I passed , I was with passion fraught , I at my Trial did appear , and am Condemned to die , The Laws cannot be too severe for such a Wretch as I . And I account ever long must give , of my Offenses here , Unto that great and mighty Judge , who will ever long appear , How shall I look him in the face , or from his presence fly , I have quite spent my day of Grace , who am Condemned to die . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-Field . The Midwife of Poplar's Sorrowful Confession and Lamentation in Newgate Who was Condemned to Die for that Horrid and Unheard of Murder , which she committed on the Bodies of several young infants , whom she Starved to Death , and was accordingly E xecuted for the same in H olbourn , upon the 23d . of this instant Oh ctober , 1693. Tune of , Russels last Farewell . Licensed according to Order . I Am the worst of Womenkind , Compton it is my Name , I was to Cruelty inclined , and do Repent the same , But Oh! I wish I never had done that wicked deed , for why , My Thread of Life is almost spun , now I'm Condemned to die . In Poplar near fair London Town , 'twas there that I did dwell , My Murders calls just Vengeance down , for they do far excel The worst of Villains in the Land , as every one may own , The very truth to understand would melt a heart of stone . For three and thirty years ago , I Midwife did begin , And of late years assurely know , I have been murdering ; Sweet Infants from their Mother's Womb , Oh! wretched Creature , I Starving did make their Dismal Doom , for which I now must die . My maid and I did go from Home , as being not afraid , And left three Children all alone , thus was I then betrayed , A little Boy and Girl I left , to Nurse and infant young , Who was of life almost bereft , thus I the Babes did wrong . I left none but Water and Cheese , to feed the Babe that cried , At which sad grief did greatly seize Neighbours on every side , The Boy he told unto them then , that they might find two more , Young Infants in a basket dead , upon a shelf below . This sighed did much amaze them all , so soon as they were found , Vermin did there about them craul , as they lay above ground , Then they dug up the Cellar floor , directed by the Boy , And there they found two or three more , all which I did destroy . The Babe that in the Cradle lay , did cry for Nourishment , They put it out to Nurse straightway , who soon to dress it went , And as she took the Linen off to dress it unto bed , The very Ears were rotted off from this poor Infants head . O Cruel Wretch , what shall I do , a Monster to all good , That could my bloody hands embrue in little Infants blood , How could I slumber Night or Day , or take one wink of rest , While pretty Murdered Infants lay , which might my sleep molest . But I alas ! was Seized at last , and unto Justice brought , And as along the Streets I passed , I was with passion fraught , I at my Trial did appear , and am Condemned to die , The Laws cannot be too severe for such a Wretch as I . And I account ever long must give , of my Offenses here , Unto that great and mighty Judge , who will ever long appear , How shall I look him in the face , or from his presence fly , I have quite spent my day of Grace , who am Condemned to die . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-Field . 