The Unnatural Mother : Being a true Relation of one Jane Lawson , once living at East-Barnet , in Middlesex ; who Quarreling with her Husband , urged him to strike her , and thereupon the same night , being the first of Sept. 1680. Drowned her self and two poor Babes in a Well . The Tune is , There was a Rich Merchant Man. A Tend good People all , unto my Story strange , To hear the like you never shall , if you the World do range : East-Barnet was the place , where long time I did dwell , And might have lived in happy case , had I considered well . Then English Women all , take pattern now by me , [ I ] did into temptation fallen , thus lost the lives of three . Jane Lawson was my Name , James Lawsons Cruel Wife , By him I had three Children small , and lived a happy Life ; Till on a certain day , my Husband forth did go , At night returned out of the way , not using to do so . Then English Women all , take pattern now by me , I did into temptation fallen , thus lost the lives of three . M Y Neighbours well did know it was no common use , Oh then why should I use him so ? or offer him abuse : But when I did perceive that he was much in WORSER [ rink ] With angry words I did him grieve till he was like to sink . Then English Women all , take pattern now by me , I did into temptation fallen , thus lost the lives of three . My Neighbours then came in , hearing this Quarrel great , Not used betwixt me and him , especially so late ; They gave me good advice , and wished me to be still , But their kind love I did despise , which proved my fatal ill . Then English women , etc At last my Mother came , who lived not far from us , And told me 'twas a perfect shame , that we should Quarrel thus : You know your Husband is and honest man , quoth she , And therefore you do much amiss , thus angry for to be : Then English Women , etc I that full well should take what from my Mother come , Bid her no Sermon for to make , but go and Preach at home : Her Mother hearing this , was troubled very soar , At last she shut her Mother with her Neighbours out of door . Then , etc No other Language then , her Mother did reply , But time will come full surely , when you'll grieve you did not try My Counsel , which is good , for I would Reconcile , And fain have things well understood to end this foolish Broil . Then , etc But she did little mind the words her Mother said , But did abuse her Husband kind , and him she angry made : Then he did tell her plain , if she'd not quiet be , He'd make her quiet , and refrain this strange Simplicity . Then , etc And then he did her give a Box upon the ear , Long after that she did not live , nor her poor Children dear : Two of them then she caught , as several neighbours tell ; These Babes destruction then she wrought with her own , in a Well . Then , etc O let us all desire , God would us patience give ; To banish Wrath and sinful Ire , and peaceably to live : Let not the devil frame , nor put into your Breast ; That which at last will end in shame and loose Eternal rest . Then English Women all , take pattern now by me : I did into temptation fallen , thus lost the lives of three . P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Unnatural Mother : Being a true Relation of one Jane Lawson , once living at East-Barnet , in Middlesex ; who Quarreling with her Husband , urged him to strike her , and thereupon the same night , being the first of Sept. 1680. Drowned her self and two poor Babes in a Well . The Tune is , There was a Rich Merchant Man. A Tend good People all , unto my Story strange , To hear the like you never shall , if you the World do range : East-Barnet was the place , where long time I did dwell , And might have lived in happy case , had I considered well . Then English Women all , take pattern now by me , [ I ] did into temptation fallen , thus lost the lives of three . Jane Lawson was my Name , James Lawsons Cruel Wife , By him I had three Children small , and lived a happy Life ; Till on a certain day , my Husband forth did go , At night returned out of the way , not using to do so . Then English Women all , take pattern now by me , I did into temptation fallen , thus lost the lives of three . M Y Neighbours well did know it was no common use , Oh then why should I use him so ? or offer him abuse : But when I did perceive that he was much in WORSER [ rink ] With angry words I did him grieve till he was like to sink . Then English Women all , take pattern now by me , I did into temptation fallen , thus lost the lives of three . My Neighbours then came in , hearing this Quarrel great , Not used betwixt me and him , especially so late ; They gave me good advice , and wished me to be still , But their kind love I did despise , which proved my fatal ill . Then English women , etc At last my Mother came , who lived not far from us , And told me 'twas a perfect shame , that we should Quarrel thus : You know your Husband is and honest man , quoth she , And therefore you do much amiss , thus angry for to be : Then English Women , etc I that full well should take what from my Mother come , Bid her no Sermon for to make , but go and Preach at home : Her Mother hearing this , was troubled very soar , At last she shut her Mother with her Neighbours out of door . Then , etc No other Language then , her Mother did reply , But time will come full surely , when you'll grieve you did not try My Counsel , which is good , for I would Reconcile , And fain have things well understood to end this foolish Broil . Then , etc But she did little mind the words her Mother said , But did abuse her Husband kind , and him she angry made : Then he did tell her plain , if she'd not quiet be , He'd make her quiet , and refrain this strange Simplicity . Then , etc And then he did her give a Box upon the ear , Long after that she did not live , nor her poor Children dear : Two of them then she caught , as several neighbours tell ; These Babes destruction then she wrought with her own , in a Well . Then , etc O let us all desire , God would us patience give ; To banish Wrath and sinful Ire , and peaceably to live : Let not the devil frame , nor put into your Breast ; That which at last will end in shame and loose Eternal rest . Then English Women all , take pattern now by me : I did into temptation fallen , thus lost the lives of three . P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 