THE GOLDEN Farmer's Last FA R EWEEL Who was arraigned and found Guilty of wilful Murder , and likewise many noto - rious Robberies ; for which he received a due Sentence of Death , and was ac - cordingly Executed on the 22d . of December , 1690 in Fleetstreet . To the Tune of The Rich Merchantman . Licensed according to Order . U Unto you all this day , my faults I do declare , Alas ! I have not long to stay , I must for Death prepare ; A most notorious Wretch , I many years have been , For which I now at length must stretch , a just Reward for since : No Tongue , nor Pen can tell what Sorrows I conceive ; Your Golden Farmer's last Farewell , unto the World I leave I having run my Raze , I now at last do see , That in much shame and sad disgrace , my Life will ended be : I took Delight to rob , and rifle rich and poor , But now at last , my Friend Old Mob , I never shall see thee more : No Tongue nor Pen can tell ; what Sorrows I conceive ; Your Golden Farmer's last Farewell , unto the World I leave . A Gang of Robbers then myself did entertain ; Notorious hardy Highwaymen . who did like Ruffians reign : Weed rob , we'd laugh , and joke , and revel night and day ; But now the knot of us is broke , it's I that leads the way : No Tongue nor Pen can tell what Sorrows I conceive , Your Golden Farmer's last Farewell unto the World I leave . We Houses did beset , and robbed them night and day , Making all Fish that came to Net , for still we cleared the way ; Five Hundred Pounds and more , in Money , Gold , and Plate , From the right Owner we have boar , but now my wretched State , No Tongue nor Pen can tell , etc We always gagged and bound most of the Family , That we might search until we found their hidden Treasury ; Which if we could not find , a Pistol cock'd straightway , Presented at their Breast , to make them show us where it lay : No Tongue nor Pen can tell , etc The Blood which I have spilled , now on my Conscience lies , The heavy dreadful thought of Gilded my Senses do's surprise ; The thoughts of Death I fear , although a just Reward , As knowing that I must appear , before the living Lord , No Tongue nor Pen can tell , etc I solemnly declare , who am to Justice brought , All kind of wicked Sins that are , I eagerly have wrought ; No Villains are more rife , than those which I have bred ; And thus a most perfidious Life I in this world have led : No Tongue nor Pen can tell , etc Long have I lived you see , by this unlawful Trade , And at the length am brought to be a just Example made : Good God my Sins forgive , whose Laws I did offend , For here I may no longer live , my Life is at and end : No Tongue nor Pen can tell what Sorrows I conceive ; Your Golden Farmer's last Farewell , unto the World I leave . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE GOLDEN Farmer's Last FA R EWEEL Who was arraigned and found Guilty of wilful Murder , and likewise many noto - rious Robberies ; for which he received a due Sentence of Death , and was ac - cordingly Executed on the 22d . of December , 1690 in Fleetstreet . To the Tune of The Rich Merchantman . Licensed according to Order . U Unto you all this day , my faults I do declare , Alas ! I have not long to stay , I must for Death prepare ; A most notorious Wretch , I many years have been , For which I now at length must stretch , a just Reward for since : No Tongue , nor Pen can tell what Sorrows I conceive ; Your Golden Farmer's last Farewell , unto the World I leave I having run my Raze , I now at last do see , That in much shame and sad disgrace , my Life will ended be : I took Delight to rob , and rifle rich and poor , But now at last , my Friend Old Mob , I never shall see thee more : No Tongue nor Pen can tell ; what Sorrows I conceive ; Your Golden Farmer's last Farewell , unto the World I leave . A Gang of Robbers then myself did entertain ; Notorious hardy Highwaymen . who did like Ruffians reign : Weed rob , we'd laugh , and joke , and revel night and day ; But now the knot of us is broke , it's I that leads the way : No Tongue nor Pen can tell what Sorrows I conceive , Your Golden Farmer's last Farewell unto the World I leave . We Houses did beset , and robbed them night and day , Making all Fish that came to Net , for still we cleared the way ; Five Hundred Pounds and more , in Money , Gold , and Plate , From the right Owner we have boar , but now my wretched State , No Tongue nor Pen can tell , etc We always gagged and bound most of the Family , That we might search until we found their hidden Treasury ; Which if we could not find , a Pistol cock'd straightway , Presented at their Breast , to make them show us where it lay : No Tongue nor Pen can tell , etc The Blood which I have spilled , now on my Conscience lies , The heavy dreadful thought of Gilded my Senses do's surprise ; The thoughts of Death I fear , although a just Reward , As knowing that I must appear , before the living Lord , No Tongue nor Pen can tell , etc I solemnly declare , who am to Justice brought , All kind of wicked Sins that are , I eagerly have wrought ; No Villains are more rife , than those which I have bred ; And thus a most perfidious Life I in this world have led : No Tongue nor Pen can tell , etc Long have I lived you see , by this unlawful Trade , And at the length am brought to be a just Example made : Good God my Sins forgive , whose Laws I did offend , For here I may no longer live , my Life is at and end : No Tongue nor Pen can tell what Sorrows I conceive ; Your Golden Farmer's last Farewell , unto the World I leave . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 