The manner of the Kings Trial at Westminster-Hall , by the High Court of Justice , from the twentieth day of January , 1648. To the Seven and Twentieth Day of the same Month. Also , the true manner of his being put to Death at White-Hall , near the Banquetting-House ; the TO [ him ] rtieth Day of January with his Speech made upon the Scaffold before he was Beheaded . The Tune is , Aim not too high . K King Charles was once a Prince of great state , But yet he died a Death unfortunate : O he is gone , and now hath left us here , And God does know what courses we shall steer . Now my sad Story to you i'll relate , At Westminster , was called a Court of State ; Where Sergeant Bradshaw was Lord President , The Court being full , then for the King they sent . There to the Bar a Guard did him convey , In Januaries Month the Twentieth day : Whereas Soliciter Cook did Read at large , The order and the manner of his Charge . The Kings Charge . CHarles Stuart once admitted Englands King , Which did such Woes upon the Kingdom bring , In setting up the Standard in the Field , Which was the cause that so much blood was spilled . Whereas thou didst raise Arms within the Land , Also against the Parliament did stand : The Peoples rights and Liberties enthral , All these and more thou didst Tyrannical . Therefore you guilty are of these sad Times , As Treason , Murder , and of such like Crimes , For which at Bar a Prisoner you are , And in this Court you shall have Trial fair . Here is your Jury , for it must be so , You've herd your Charge , plead guilty , I or no : What is it thus ( then answered the King ) Was it for this you did me hither bring ? The Kings Answer to the Charge . A S for your Charge a Rush I do not care , I do desire those things are right and square : It was for my Peoples freedom I did stand , The Liberties and Laws of all the Land. I do desire to me you would unfold , By whose Commission you this Court do hold : To whom the President did straight reply ; Sir you shall know by whose Authority . This Court Prerogative whereon we stand , Ordained is by the Commons of the Land , It is not for Prisoners to dispute the same , Answer to that for which you hither came . Then their Authority he quite denied , And said by them he meant not to be Tried : At which the Court their Verdict then did pass , ( Not answering ) that he then guilty was . Then by the Clarke his Sentence there was read , Saying [ , ] Charles Stuart , thou must loose thy head : For murder , Treason , and for Tyranny , And to the Land a public Enemy . Being Condemned , one thing he did crave , That Doctor Juxon's presence he might have , To Preach , and the Communion him to give : And see his two sweet Babes while he did live . TO He which was granted all performed and done And he did see his Daughter and his Son : It would have grieved a stony heart to see The weeping joy that was between those three . He blessed them both , and for them he did pray , Mourning at parting , then they god their way ; Father from Children , 'twas a grief full soar , Each other in this world to see no more . Tuesday the Thirtieth of January last , He from St. Jameses unto White-Hall past : Having a Guard of flying Colours spread , And rattling Drums as to a Battle led . With cheerful Countenance and Courage bold , He said march faster for the day is cold : Then to the Scaffold he was straight conveyed , The which with mourning Cloth was over laid . The Kings Speech upon the Scaffold . Mounting the same , quoth he , i'll little say , For in this World I have not long to stay : It is my duty first with God to clear , My Conscience free , next to my Country dear . Unto the Parliament I never thought ill , Their Privileges never thought to spill , Ill Instruments on both sides bred the strife , Which was the cause so many lost their life . The greatest Enemies that sought my death , I do forgive before I lose my breath : I wish the Kingdoms peace , and Churches bliss , For now Religion out of order is . Lawful Succession I hope shall be , ( Granted by Parliament ) now after me : And for my Conscience and Religion , I die a Protestant and Christian . To Doctor Juxon then his George he gave , Willing Prince Charles his Son the same might have . His walking staff unto himself did give ; And for his sake to keep while he did live . Likewise he gave the Duke of Richmond then , One Watch , another to a Gentleman : With eyes lift up to Heaven he made a Prayer , And then for death did instantly prepare . Saying , my earthly Crown I here must leave , ( Hoping a heavenly Crown I shall receive ) Then on the block his neck he there did lay , And to the Headsman then these words did say . When as my hands and arms I open stretch , Strike home , be sure thou a right blow fetch I come , I come , Lord Jesus , then he cried , One blow his head and body did divide . Thus like a Lamb his death he there did take , And presently this world he did forsake : Whose soul I trust is with the Lord on high , And thus I end my mournful Tragedy . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . The manner of the Kings Trial at Westminster-Hall , by the High Court of Justice , from the twentieth day of January , 1648. To the Seven and Twentieth Day of the same Month. Also , the true manner of his being put to Death at White-Hall , near the Banquetting-House ; the TO [ him ] rtieth Day of January with his Speech made upon the Scaffold before he was Beheaded . The Tune is , Aim not too high . K King Charles was once a Prince of great state , But yet he died a Death unfortunate : O he is gone , and now hath left us here , And God does know what courses we shall steer . Now my sad Story to you i'll relate , At Westminster , was called a Court of State ; Where Sergeant Bradshaw was Lord President , The Court being full , then for the King they sent . There to the Bar a Guard did him convey , In Januaries Month the Twentieth day : Whereas Soliciter Cook did Read at large , The order and the manner of his Charge . The Kings Charge . CHarles Stuart once admitted Englands King , Which did such Woes upon the Kingdom bring , In setting up the Standard in the Field , Which was the cause that so much blood was spilled . Whereas thou didst raise Arms within the Land , Also against the Parliament did stand : The Peoples rights and Liberties enthral , All these and more thou didst Tyrannical . Therefore you guilty are of these sad Times , As Treason , Murder , and of such like Crimes , For which at Bar a Prisoner you are , And in this Court you shall have Trial fair . Here is your Jury , for it must be so , You've herd your Charge , plead guilty , I or no : What is it thus ( then answered the King ) Was it for this you did me hither bring ? The Kings Answer to the Charge . A S for your Charge a Rush I do not care , I do desire those things are right and square : It was for my Peoples freedom I did stand , The Liberties and Laws of all the Land. I do desire to me you would unfold , By whose Commission you this Court do hold : To whom the President did straight reply ; Sir you shall know by whose Authority . This Court Prerogative whereon we stand , Ordained is by the Commons of the Land , It is not for Prisoners to dispute the same , Answer to that for which you hither came . Then their Authority he quite denied , And said by them he meant not to be Tried : At which the Court their Verdict then did pass , ( Not answering ) that he then guilty was . Then by the Clarke his Sentence there was read , Saying [ , ] Charles Stuart , thou must loose thy head : For murder , Treason , and for Tyranny , And to the Land a public Enemy . Being Condemned , one thing he did crave , That Doctor Juxon's presence he might have , To Preach , and the Communion him to give : And see his two sweet Babes while he did live . TO He which was granted all performed and done And he did see his Daughter and his Son : It would have grieved a stony heart to see The weeping joy that was between those three . He blessed them both , and for them he did pray , Mourning at parting , then they god their way ; Father from Children , 'twas a grief full soar , Each other in this world to see no more . Tuesday the Thirtieth of January last , He from St. Jameses unto White-Hall past : Having a Guard of flying Colours spread , And rattling Drums as to a Battle led . With cheerful Countenance and Courage bold , He said march faster for the day is cold : Then to the Scaffold he was straight conveyed , The which with mourning Cloth was over laid . The Kings Speech upon the Scaffold . Mounting the same , quoth he , i'll little say , For in this World I have not long to stay : It is my duty first with God to clear , My Conscience free , next to my Country dear . Unto the Parliament I never thought ill , Their Privileges never thought to spill , Ill Instruments on both sides bred the strife , Which was the cause so many lost their life . The greatest Enemies that sought my death , I do forgive before I lose my breath : I wish the Kingdoms peace , and Churches bliss , For now Religion out of order is . Lawful Succession I hope shall be , ( Granted by Parliament ) now after me : And for my Conscience and Religion , I die a Protestant and Christian . To Doctor Juxon then his George he gave , Willing Prince Charles his Son the same might have . His walking staff unto himself did give ; And for his sake to keep while he did live . Likewise he gave the Duke of Richmond then , One Watch , another to a Gentleman : With eyes lift up to Heaven he made a Prayer , And then for death did instantly prepare . Saying , my earthly Crown I here must leave , ( Hoping a heavenly Crown I shall receive ) Then on the block his neck he there did lay , And to the Headsman then these words did say . When as my hands and arms I open stretch , Strike home , be sure thou a right blow fetch I come , I come , Lord Jesus , then he cried , One blow his head and body did divide . Thus like a Lamb his death he there did take , And presently this world he did forsake : Whose soul I trust is with the Lord on high , And thus I end my mournful Tragedy . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 