THE Penitent Highwayman : OR , The Last Farewell of Mr. Biss. Who was Born at Shaftsbury , in Wiltshire , and was arraigned and found guilty , and accordingly received Sentence of Death , and was Executed at Sa - lisbury , on the 12th of March , 1695. To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell , etc GOod People all I pray attend , and listen now to me , A sad Relation here I send of Biss in Shaftsbury : A noted Highwayman he was who on the Road did ride , And at the length it came to pass , he was condenmed and died . When he was to his Trial brought , and at the Bar did stand , He for no kind of favour sought , but there held up his Hand , Declaring to the ancient Judge , who was to try him then , He should not bear him any grudge , he waned the worst of Men . He said , The Scriptures I fulfilled , though I this Life did led , For when the Naked I beheld , I clothed them with speed ; Sometime in Cloth and Winter-frize , sometime in Russet-gray ; The Poor I fed , the Rich likewise I empty sent away . What say you now my honoured Lord , what harm was there in this ? Rich wealthy Misers was abhorred by brave freehearted Biss. I never robbed nor wronged the Poor , as well it does appear ; Be pleased to favour me therefore , and be not too severe . Upon the Road a Man I met , was posting to a Jail , Because he could not pay his Debt , nor give sufficient Bail : A kind and loving Friend he found , that very day of me , Who paid the Miser forty Pound , and set the Prisoner free . Though he had god the Guinneys bright , and put them in his Purse , I followed him that very night , I could not leave him thus ; Mounting my prancing Steed again , I crossed a point of land , Meeting the Miser in a lane , where soon I bid him stand : You borrowed forty Pounds , you know , of me this very day , I cannot trust , before you go , I must have present pay : With that I seized & amp ; searched him round , and rifled all his store , Where straight I god my forty Pound , with twenty Guinneys more . The Judge he made him this reply , Your Joaks are all in vain , By Law you are condemned to Die , you will no Pardon gain , Therefore , Repent , repent with speed , for what is gone and passed , Though you the Poor did cloth and feed , you suffer must at last . That word was like a fatal sword , it pierced him to the heart ; The Lord for Mercy he implored , as knowing he must part With all his Friends and Pleasures too , to be as I have said , At Salsbury to People's view , a sad Example made . His melting Eyes did overflow with penitential Tears , To see his dismal Overthrow , just in his strength of Years . O kind and loving Friends , he cried , take warning now by me , Who must the pains of Death abide , this day in Salsbury . In grief and sorrow now I pass out of the World this day , The latter minute's in the glass , therefore good People pray , That as this painful Life I leave , the Lord may pity take , And in his arms my Soul receive , even for his Mercies sake . Lic [ ens ' ] worser according to Order . LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie corner , near West-smithfield . THE Penitent Highwayman : OR , The Last Farewell of Mr. Biss. Who was Born at Shaftsbury , in Wiltshire , and was arraigned and found guilty , and accordingly received Sentence of Death , and was Executed at Sa - lisbury , on the 12th of March , 1695. To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell , etc GOod People all I pray attend , and listen now to me , A sad Relation here I send of Biss in Shaftsbury : A noted Highwayman he was who on the Road did ride , And at the length it came to pass , he was condenmed and died . When he was to his Trial brought , and at the Bar did stand , He for no kind of favour sought , but there held up his Hand , Declaring to the ancient Judge , who was to try him then , He should not bear him any grudge , he waned the worst of Men . He said , The Scriptures I fulfilled , though I this Life did led , For when the Naked I beheld , I clothed them with speed ; Sometime in Cloth and Winter-frize , sometime in Russet-gray ; The Poor I fed , the Rich likewise I empty sent away . What say you now my honoured Lord , what harm was there in this ? Rich wealthy Misers was abhorred by brave freehearted Biss. I never robbed nor wronged the Poor , as well it does appear ; Be pleased to favour me therefore , and be not too severe . Upon the Road a Man I met , was posting to a Jail , Because he could not pay his Debt , nor give sufficient Bail : A kind and loving Friend he found , that very day of me , Who paid the Miser forty Pound , and set the Prisoner free . Though he had god the Guinneys bright , and put them in his Purse , I followed him that very night , I could not leave him thus ; Mounting my prancing Steed again , I crossed a point of land , Meeting the Miser in a lane , where soon I bid him stand : You borrowed forty Pounds , you know , of me this very day , I cannot trust , before you go , I must have present pay : With that I seized & amp ; searched him round , and rifled all his store , Where straight I god my forty Pound , with twenty Guinneys more . The Judge he made him this reply , Your Joaks are all in vain , By Law you are condemned to Die , you will no Pardon gain , Therefore , Repent , repent with speed , for what is gone and passed , Though you the Poor did cloth and feed , you suffer must at last . That word was like a fatal sword , it pierced him to the heart ; The Lord for Mercy he implored , as knowing he must part With all his Friends and Pleasures too , to be as I have said , At Salsbury to People's view , a sad Example made . His melting Eyes did overflow with penitential Tears , To see his dismal Overthrow , just in his strength of Years . O kind and loving Friends , he cried , take warning now by me , Who must the pains of Death abide , this day in Salsbury . In grief and sorrow now I pass out of the World this day , The latter minute's in the glass , therefore good People pray , That as this painful Life I leave , the Lord may pity take , And in his arms my Soul receive , even for his Mercies sake . Lic [ ens ' ] worser according to Order . LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie corner , near West-smithfield . 