The L ast News from France , Being a true Relation of the escape of the King of Scots from Worcester to London , and from London to France , who was conveyed away by a young Gentleman in women's apparel : The King of Scots attending on this supposed Gentlewomon in manner of a Servingman . The Tune is , When the King enjoys , etc A LL you that do desire to know , what is become of the King of Scots , I unto you will truly show , after the fight of Northern Rats ; 'Twas I did convey His Highness away , And faom all dangers set him free , In Women's attire , As reason did require , And the King himself did wait on me . He of me a service did crave , and oftentimes to me stood bore , In women's apparel he was most brave , and on his chin he had no hare ; Where ever I came , My speeches did fame , So well my waiting-man to free , The like was never known , I think by any one , For the King himself did wait on me . My Waiting-man a Jewel had , which I for want of money sold , Because my fortune was so bad , we turned our Jewel into gold . A good shift indeed , In time of our need , Then glad was I , and glad was he Our Cause it did advance Until we came to France , And the King himself did wait on me . We walked through Westminster-hall , where Law and Justice does take place , Our grief were great , our comfort small , we looked grim death all in the face , I looked round about , And made no other doubt , But I and my man should taken be , Then people little knew , As I may tell to you , That the King himself did wait on me . F Rom thence we went to the fatal place , where his Father lost his life , And there my man did weep apace , and sorrow with him then was rife , I bid him peace , Let sorrow cease , For fear that we should taken be , The Gallants in White-hall , Did little know all , That the King himself did wait on me . The King he was my Servingman , and thus the plot we did contrive , I went by the name of Mistress Anne , when with took water at Queen-hive . A Boat there we took , And London forsook , And now in France arrived are we , We god away by stealth , And the King is in good health , And he shall no longer wait on me . The King of Denmark's dead they say , then Charles is like to rule the Land , In France he will no longer stay , as I do rightly understand ; That Land is his endue If they be but true : And he with them do well agree , I herd a bird sing , If he be once their King , My man will then my Master be . Fow heaven grant them better success with their young King then England had , Free from war and from distress , their fortune may not be so bad . Since the case thus stands , Let neighbouring lands , Lay down their Arms , and at quiet be , But as for my part , I am glad with all my heart , That my man must now my Master be . And thus I have declared to you , by what means we escaped away , Now we bid our cares adieu , though the King did [ loose ] the day , To him I was true , And that he w [ ell ] knew , It's God that must his comfort be , Else all ou [ r ] P [ oh ] licy Had been but foolery , For the King no longer waits on me . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The L ast News from France , Being a true Relation of the escape of the King of Scots from Worcester to London , and from London to France , who was conveyed away by a young Gentleman in women's apparel : The King of Scots attending on this supposed Gentlewomon in manner of a Servingman . The Tune is , When the King enjoys , etc A LL you that do desire to know , what is become of the King of Scots , I unto you will truly show , after the fight of Northern Rats ; 'Twas I did convey His Highness away , And faom all dangers set him free , In Women's attire , As reason did require , And the King himself did wait on me . He of me a service did crave , and oftentimes to me stood bore , In women's apparel he was most brave , and on his chin he had no hare ; Where ever I came , My speeches did fame , So well my waiting-man to free , The like was never known , I think by any one , For the King himself did wait on me . My Waiting-man a Jewel had , which I for want of money sold , Because my fortune was so bad , we turned our Jewel into gold . A good shift indeed , In time of our need , Then glad was I , and glad was he Our Cause it did advance Until we came to France , And the King himself did wait on me . We walked through Westminster-hall , where Law and Justice does take place , Our grief were great , our comfort small , we looked grim death all in the face , I looked round about , And made no other doubt , But I and my man should taken be , Then people little knew , As I may tell to you , That the King himself did wait on me . F Rom thence we went to the fatal place , where his Father lost his life , And there my man did weep apace , and sorrow with him then was rife , I bid him peace , Let sorrow cease , For fear that we should taken be , The Gallants in White-hall , Did little know all , That the King himself did wait on me . The King he was my Servingman , and thus the plot we did contrive , I went by the name of Mistress Anne , when with took water at Queen-hive . A Boat there we took , And London forsook , And now in France arrived are we , We god away by stealth , And the King is in good health , And he shall no longer wait on me . The King of Denmark's dead they say , then Charles is like to rule the Land , In France he will no longer stay , as I do rightly understand ; That Land is his endue If they be but true : And he with them do well agree , I herd a bird sing , If he be once their King , My man will then my Master be . Fow heaven grant them better success with their young King then England had , Free from war and from distress , their fortune may not be so bad . Since the case thus stands , Let neighbouring lands , Lay down their Arms , and at quiet be , But as for my part , I am glad with all my heart , That my man must now my Master be . And thus I have declared to you , by what means we escaped away , Now we bid our cares adieu , though the King did [ loose ] the day , To him I was true , And that he w [ ell ] knew , It's God that must his comfort be , Else all ou [ r ] P [ oh ] licy Had been but foolery , For the King no longer waits on me . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 