Rebellion given over Housekeeping : OR , A General Sale of Rebellious Household stuff . Being a Pleasant New Song . To the Tune of , Old Simon the King . R Ebellion hath broken up House , and hath left me Old Lumber to fell : Come hither and take your choice , I'll promise to use you well . Will you buy the Old Speaker's Chair , which was warm , and easy to fit in , And oftentimes hath been made clean , when as it was fouler then fiting : Says Old Simon the King , says Oh [ l ] worser Simon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his Mamsey Nose , sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . Will you buy any bacon flitches ? they're the fattest that ever were spent ; They're the sides of the old Committees , fed up with the long parliament . Here's a pair of bellows and tongue's , and for a small matter i'll sell'em ; They're made of the Presbyters Lungs , to blow up the Coals of Rebellion , Says old Simon the King , etc . I had thought to have given them once to some Black-Smith for his Forge ; But now I have considered oned , I for them have found other use : For i'll give them to some Choir , to make the Organ to roar , And the little Pipes squeak higher then ever they did before , Says old Simon the King , says Old Simon the King , With his Threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . Here , s a couple of Stools for sale , the one square and tother is round ; Betwixt them both the Tail of the Rump fell unto the Ground . Will you buy the States Council Table , which was made of the good wain-Scot ; The frame was a tottering Babble to uphold independent plot ; Says old Simon the King , etc . Here's the Beeson of Reformation , which should have made clean the Floor ; But it swept the wealth out of th ' Nation and left us Dirt good store . Will you buy the States Spining wheel , which spun for the Ropers Trade ? But better it had stood still , for now in has spun a Fair Thread ? Says old Simon the king , etc . Here's a very good Clyster Pipe , which was made of a Butchers stump ? And ofttimes it hath been used to cure the Colds of the Rump . Here's a lump of Ignorance , which once was a Justice of peace , Who Nel and the Devil did serve ; but now it is come to This , Says old Simon the King , etc . Here's a Role of States Tobacco , if any Good Fellow will take it : It's nither Virginia nor Spanish , but i'll tell you how they do make it ; This Covenant mixed with Engagement , with and Abjuration Oath ; And many of them did take it complain it was foul in the Mouth , Says Old Simon the King , etc . Yet the Ashes may happily serve to sure the Scab of the Nation , When they have and itch to serve , a Rebellion by Innovation , A Lantern here is to be bought , the like was scarce ever begotten : For many a Plotted has found out , before they ever were thought on , Says old Simon the King , etc . Will you buy the Rumps great Saddle , which once did carry the Nation ; And here's the Bit and the Bridle , and Curb of Dissimulation ? Here's the Breeches of the Rump , With a fair dissembling Cloak , And a Presbyterian Jump , with and Independent Smock , Says old Simon the King , etc . Will you buy a Conscience never turned , which served the High Court of Justice ? And stretched until England it mourned , but Hell will buy that if the worst is : Here's Joan Crumwels Kitching-stuff-Tub , wherein is the Fat of the Rumpers , With which she Old Noll's Horns did rub , when he was god drunk with full Bumpers : Says Old Simon the King , etc . Here's the Purse of the Public Faith , here's the Model of Sequestration , Here are the old wives who on good troth , lent Thimbles to ruin the Nation : Here is Dick Crumwel's Protectorship , and here is Lambert's Commission , And here is Hugh Peters his Scrip , cramed with the Tumultuous Petitions . Says Old Simon the King , etc . Here's Olivers Brewing Vessels , and here's his Dray and his Slings : Here's Hewsons Aul and his Bristles , with diverse other odd things . And what does the price belong to all these matters before you ? I'll fell them all for and old song , and so I do end my story Says old Simon the King , Says old Simon the King , With his threadbare clothes , & amp ; a Mamsey Nose Sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . FINIS . Printed for J. W. J. C. W. T. T. P. and M . C.Rebellion given over Housekeeping : OR , A General Sale of Rebellious Household stuff . Being a Pleasant New Song . To the Tune of , Old Simon the King . R Ebellion hath broken up House , and hath left me Old Lumber to fell : Come hither and take your choice , I'll promise to use you well . Will you buy the Old Speaker's Chair , which was warm , and easy to fit in , And oftentimes hath been made clean , when as it was fouler then fiting : Says Old Simon the King , says Oh [ l ] worser Simon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his Mamsey Nose , sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . Will you buy any bacon flitches ? they're the fattest that ever were spent ; They're the sides of the old Committees , fed up with the long parliament . Here's a pair of bellows and tongue's , and for a small matter i'll sell'em ; They're made of the Presbyters Lungs , to blow up the Coals of Rebellion , Says old Simon the King , etc . I had thought to have given them once to some Black-Smith for his Forge ; But now I have considered oned , I for them have found other use : For i'll give them to some Choir , to make the Organ to roar , And the little Pipes squeak higher then ever they did before , Says old Simon the King , says Old Simon the King , With his Threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . Here , s a couple of Stools for sale , the one square and tother is round ; Betwixt them both the Tail of the Rump fell unto the Ground . Will you buy the States Council Table , which was made of the good wain-Scot ; The frame was a tottering Babble to uphold independent plot ; Says old Simon the King , etc . Here's the Beeson of Reformation , which should have made clean the Floor ; But it swept the wealth out of th ' Nation and left us Dirt good store . Will you buy the States Spining wheel , which spun for the Ropers Trade ? But better it had stood still , for now in has spun a Fair Thread ? Says old Simon the king , etc . Here's a very good Clyster Pipe , which was made of a Butchers stump ? And ofttimes it hath been used to cure the Colds of the Rump . Here's a lump of Ignorance , which once was a Justice of peace , Who Nel and the Devil did serve ; but now it is come to This , Says old Simon the King , etc . Here's a Role of States Tobacco , if any Good Fellow will take it : It's nither Virginia nor Spanish , but i'll tell you how they do make it ; This Covenant mixed with Engagement , with and Abjuration Oath ; And many of them did take it complain it was foul in the Mouth , Says Old Simon the King , etc . Yet the Ashes may happily serve to sure the Scab of the Nation , When they have and itch to serve , a Rebellion by Innovation , A Lantern here is to be bought , the like was scarce ever begotten : For many a Plotted has found out , before they ever were thought on , Says old Simon the King , etc . Will you buy the Rumps great Saddle , which once did carry the Nation ; And here's the Bit and the Bridle , and Curb of Dissimulation ? Here's the Breeches of the Rump , With a fair dissembling Cloak , And a Presbyterian Jump , with and Independent Smock , Says old Simon the King , etc . Will you buy a Conscience never turned , which served the High Court of Justice ? And stretched until England it mourned , but Hell will buy that if the worst is : Here's Joan Crumwels Kitching-stuff-Tub , wherein is the Fat of the Rumpers , With which she Old Noll's Horns did rub , when he was god drunk with full Bumpers : Says Old Simon the King , etc . Here's the Purse of the Public Faith , here's the Model of Sequestration , Here are the old wives who on good troth , lent Thimbles to ruin the Nation : Here is Dick Crumwel's Protectorship , and here is Lambert's Commission , And here is Hugh Peters his Scrip , cramed with the Tumultuous Petitions . Says Old Simon the King , etc . Here's Olivers Brewing Vessels , and here's his Dray and his Slings : Here's Hewsons Aul and his Bristles , with diverse other odd things . And what does the price belong to all these matters before you ? I'll fell them all for and old song , and so I do end my story Says old Simon the King , Says old Simon the King , With his threadbare clothes , & amp ; a Mamsey Nose Sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . FINIS . Printed for J. W. J. C. W. T. T. P. and M.C. 