A Turn-Coat of the Times , Who does by experience profess and protest , That of all his professions , a Turn-Coat's the best . Tune is , The Kings delight , Or , Truelove is a gift for a Queen . AS I was walking through Hide-Park as I used to do , some two or three months ago I laid me all along Without any fear of wrong , And listened unto a Song ; It came from a powdered thing As fine as a Lord or King , he knew not that I was god so nigh , And thus he began to sing . I am a turncoat Knave , Although I do bear it brave , and do not show all I have , I can with tongue and pen Court every sort of men , And kill'em as fast again . With Zealots I can pray , With Cavaliers I can play ; with shopkeepers I can clog and lie , And Cozen as fast as they . When first the War began , And Prentices led the Van , 'twas I that did set them on , when they cried Bishops down In Country , Court , and Town , Quoth I , and have at the Crown , The Covenant I did take , For from and fashions sake , but when it would not support my plot , 'Twas like and old Almanac . When Independency , Had superiority I was of the same degree ; When Keepers did command , I then had a holy hand In Deans and in Chapters lands But when I began to spy , Protectorship drew nigh , and Keepers were thrown over the Bar , Old Oliver then cried I WHen Sectarists god the day I used my yea , and nay ; to flatter and then betray , In Parliament I god , And there a Member sat , To tumble down Church & amp ; State , state For I was a trusty trout In all I went about , and there we did vow to fit till now , But Oliver turned us out . We put down the house of Peers We killed the Cavaliers , and tippled the widows tears We sequestered men's Estates , And made'em pay monthly rates To trumpeters and their mates Rebellion we did Print , And altered all the Mint ; no knavery then was done by men , But I had a finger in't , When Charles was put to flight Then I was at Wor'ster fight , and god a good booty byed ; At that most fatal fallen I killed and plundered all , The weakest went to the wall , While my merry mates fell on To pillaging I was gone , there is many ( thought I ) will come by and by , And why should not I be one . We triumphed like the Turk , We crippled the Scottish Kirk that set us at first to work , When Cromwel did but frown They yielded every Town , St ! Andrew is Cross went down But when old Noll did die , And Richard his son put by , I knew not how to guide my blow , where now shall I be thought I . I must confess the Rump , Did put me into a dump I knew not what would be trump When Dick had lost the day My gaming was at a stay , I could not tell what to play , When Monek was upon that score I thought I would play no more I did not think what he would be at , I never was so mumpt before . But now I am at Court , With men of the better sort and purchase a good report ; I have the eyes and ears , Of many brave Noble Peers , And slight the poor Cavaliers , Poor knaves they know not how To flatter , to cringe , and bow , for he that is wise and means to rise , He must be a turn-Coat too . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . A Turn-Coat of the Times , Who does by experience profess and protest , That of all his professions , a Turn-Coat's the best . Tune is , The Kings delight , Or , Truelove is a gift for a Queen . AS I was walking through Hide-Park as I used to do , some two or three months ago I laid me all along Without any fear of wrong , And listened unto a Song ; It came from a powdered thing As fine as a Lord or King , he knew not that I was god so nigh , And thus he began to sing . I am a turncoat Knave , Although I do bear it brave , and do not show all I have , I can with tongue and pen Court every sort of men , And kill'em as fast again . With Zealots I can pray , With Cavaliers I can play ; with shopkeepers I can clog and lie , And Cozen as fast as they . When first the War began , And Prentices led the Van , 'twas I that did set them on , when they cried Bishops down In Country , Court , and Town , Quoth I , and have at the Crown , The Covenant I did take , For from and fashions sake , but when it would not support my plot , 'Twas like and old Almanac . When Independency , Had superiority I was of the same degree ; When Keepers did command , I then had a holy hand In Deans and in Chapters lands But when I began to spy , Protectorship drew nigh , and Keepers were thrown over the Bar , Old Oliver then cried I WHen Sectarists god the day I used my yea , and nay ; to flatter and then betray , In Parliament I god , And there a Member sat , To tumble down Church & amp ; State , state For I was a trusty trout In all I went about , and there we did vow to fit till now , But Oliver turned us out . We put down the house of Peers We killed the Cavaliers , and tippled the widows tears We sequestered men's Estates , And made'em pay monthly rates To trumpeters and their mates Rebellion we did Print , And altered all the Mint ; no knavery then was done by men , But I had a finger in't , When Charles was put to flight Then I was at Wor'ster fight , and god a good booty byed ; At that most fatal fallen I killed and plundered all , The weakest went to the wall , While my merry mates fell on To pillaging I was gone , there is many ( thought I ) will come by and by , And why should not I be one . We triumphed like the Turk , We crippled the Scottish Kirk that set us at first to work , When Cromwel did but frown They yielded every Town , St ! Andrew is Cross went down But when old Noll did die , And Richard his son put by , I knew not how to guide my blow , where now shall I be thought I . I must confess the Rump , Did put me into a dump I knew not what would be trump When Dick had lost the day My gaming was at a stay , I could not tell what to play , When Monek was upon that score I thought I would play no more I did not think what he would be at , I never was so mumpt before . But now I am at Court , With men of the better sort and purchase a good report ; I have the eyes and ears , Of many brave Noble Peers , And slight the poor Cavaliers , Poor knaves they know not how To flatter , to cringe , and bow , for he that is wise and means to rise , He must be a turn-Coat too . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 