The ENGLISH Courage UNDAUNTED : OR , Advice to those Brave Valiant Blades now going to TANGIER , To Maintain the Old English Courage against the MOORS . They that the English Courage have , Let them all march Tangier to save : For Courage contemneth perils , at nothing is dismayed But Cowardice indeed , is at any thing afraid . To a pleasant New Tune . O Stout ! you Valiant English-men , that are now going to Tangier ; Be sure with Courage bold you fight , and make the Moors to stand in fear . And tremble at our English Courage , which never failed on any ground ; Nor was never known to any Battle , that and English man was a Coward found . Right Sons of Mars they ever proved , against French , Dutch , and Spaniard too ; And many more which I could name , all which experience has found true . And do these sordid Devils think , for to do more then French or Dutch , But if they do , they are deceived , for I am sure the English Courage is such , Not to be afraid of Swarthy men , but with their Swords confound them all , For I am sure they would not be dismayed , if Pluto were their General . And we know your courage brave boys is such that the best of men you scorn to fear , There is nothing can dishearten you , no not the Devils of Tangier . Such were of Old , our English men , for Courage spoken well of all : For many a Victory have they wone , and many a man have they made fallen . Maintain their courage still , brave Boys , down with this black insulting foe , And make him bow and bend to all , that ever shall to Tangier go . Let not their fierce and ugly looks , deter you from being English-men , But with Courage bold lift up your Sword , and fight as long as ever you can . And when you fallen on them , brave Boys , do not forget Lord Rutterford , That Valiant man who fought with them , as long as he could hold his Sword . Revenge his Cause , brave Valiant Lads , do not forget those English-men , That suffered with him in that Treachery , when they caught they all in the midst of them Bang them about fored briskly , Lads , and make the swarthy Devils run , Then will they stoop and yield to all , that ever shall to TO angier come . Pursue them close from place to place , and never let them be at rest , While you make them come and creep to you , and for ever of them have god the best . Bring thousands of them to the ground and let them there a sprawling lie , No pity on them ever take , but a pox upon they , let them die . Fill up their Fields with them , brave boys , disable them for rising more , Then quietness you shall enjoy , when they lie sleeping in their gore . It will be a terror to them that lives , and make them ever stand in fear , Of English-men , that shall be sent , ever hereafter to TO angier . Printed for W. Miller , in Vine-street , near Hatton-Garden . The ENGLISH Courage UNDAUNTED : OR , Advice to those Brave Valiant Blades now going to TANGIER , To Maintain the Old English Courage against the MOORS . They that the English Courage have , Let them all march Tangier to save : For Courage contemneth perils , at nothing is dismayed But Cowardice indeed , is at any thing afraid . To a pleasant New Tune . O Stout ! you Valiant English-men , that are now going to Tangier ; Be sure with Courage bold you fight , and make the Moors to stand in fear . And tremble at our English Courage , which never failed on any ground ; Nor was never known to any Battle , that and English man was a Coward found . Right Sons of Mars they ever proved , against French , Dutch , and Spaniard too ; And many more which I could name , all which experience has found true . And do these sordid Devils think , for to do more then French or Dutch , But if they do , they are deceived , for I am sure the English Courage is such , Not to be afraid of Swarthy men , but with their Swords confound them all , For I am sure they would not be dismayed , if Pluto were their General . And we know your courage brave boys is such that the best of men you scorn to fear , There is nothing can dishearten you , no not the Devils of Tangier . Such were of Old , our English men , for Courage spoken well of all : For many a Victory have they wone , and many a man have they made fallen . Maintain their courage still , brave Boys , down with this black insulting foe , And make him bow and bend to all , that ever shall to Tangier go . Let not their fierce and ugly looks , deter you from being English-men , But with Courage bold lift up your Sword , and fight as long as ever you can . And when you fallen on them , brave Boys , do not forget Lord Rutterford , That Valiant man who fought with them , as long as he could hold his Sword . Revenge his Cause , brave Valiant Lads , do not forget those English-men , That suffered with him in that Treachery , when they caught they all in the midst of them Bang them about fored briskly , Lads , and make the swarthy Devils run , Then will they stoop and yield to all , that ever shall to TO angier come . Pursue them close from place to place , and never let them be at rest , While you make them come and creep to you , and for ever of them have god the best . Bring thousands of them to the ground and let them there a sprawling lie , No pity on them ever take , but a pox upon they , let them die . Fill up their Fields with them , brave boys , disable them for rising more , Then quietness you shall enjoy , when they lie sleeping in their gore . It will be a terror to them that lives , and make them ever stand in fear , Of English-men , that shall be sent , ever hereafter to TO angier . Printed for W. Miller , in Vine-street , near Hatton-Garden . 