A Warning to all Lewd Livers . By the Example of a disobedient Child , who Riotously wasted and consumed his Father's and Mother's goods , and also his own , among Strumpets and other Lewd Livers , and died most miserably on a Dunghill . The Tune is , Sir And [ r ] ew Barton . M Y bleeding heart with grief and care , Does wish all youngmen to beware , That they not such like steps may tread , Nor led the life which I have led . My Father was a Gentleman , As many Gallants witness can : He had had no Son but only I , Which made his Gold and Silver fly . When as my Father had me sent To fell his goods , or take up rend : I did consume and waste the same , In drinking , or unlawful Game . The Cards and Dice were my delight , I haunted Taverns day and night : Lewd women were my chiefest joys , And my Consorts were Cutpurse boys . Gods Holy word I disobeyed , I cared not what the Preacher said : For quaffing Cans of Ale and Beer , Wa [ s ] all the Service I would hear . Then acting my ungracious part , I broke my aged Father's heart : When ghastly Death did on him seize , I thought my self in happy case . What he had left I thought well god , But now the shame falls to my lot : Five hundred pound of good read Gold , For wine and Beer I quickly sold . Then was I pressed to serve the King , That way might my name honour bring ; A Soldiers life I held it base , And always took it in disgrace . And having thus consumed my store , I to my Mother went for more : Who sold and Mortgaged her Land , And put the money in my hand . And then with tears these words she said , Thou knowest my Son thy Father's dead [ : ] No more is left but I and thee , Therefore dear Son be good to me . I F that thy love from me should fallen , I have no friend on earth at all : Therefore good Son to me prove kind , And thou reward in Heaven shalt find . Then on my bent knees fell I , Desiring of the Lord on high : A Shameful death might be his end , That would his Mother once offend . All you that do no reckoning make , Of swearing , when your words you speak : Give ear to that which I shall tell , Lewd Livers seldom dyeth well . You Disobedient Children all , Draw near and listen to my fallen : Example take , repent in time , lest that your woes be like to mine . You Father's dear , and Mother's kind , Bear you this Lesson in your mind : Trust not too much a wicked child , For oft times men are so beguiled . When Twigs are green you may them ply , But let them grow while they be dry ; They will so stiff and stubborn stand , You cannot bend them with your hand . So I that ran a wicked raze , And to amend had not the grace : Sixteen score pound in good read gold , Into my hand my mother told . But in the compass of one year , I spent it all as may appear : And having left no means at all , I unto Robbing straight did fallen . Thus did I steal my mother's Rings , Her Brass , her Pewter , and such things : The very Bed whereon she lay , I like a Villain stole away . Whatever I could get or take I thereof straight did money make : My flinty heart did feel no grief , To see my Mother want relief . At last she grew exceeding poor , And begged relief from door to door : No Infidel , nor Pagan vild , Could bring to light so bad a Child . At last my Mother lost her breath , As she constrained was by death : Who yields relief when friends grow scant , And ease to them that are in want . From place to place then was I tossed , By every man and woman crossed : No harbour could I get , whereby I might at night in safeguard lie . My dearest Kinsfolks do me chide , My dearest friends can't me abide : Those were my consorts of late , Their love is turned into hate . Those that have feasted many a time , And fed upon that which was mine : Despise at me along the street , As if they should a Serpent meet . Both old and young , both great and small , Both Rich and poor despise me all : No friend to take my part have I , But was constrained in fields to lie . In this my extreme misery , My grief and my necessity : No creature gave for my relief , One piece of bred to ease my grief . But like a poor despised wretch , His latest gasp that he did fetch , Was on a Dunghill in the Night , When as no creature was in sighed . But in the morning he was found , As cold as clay upon the ground : Thus was he born in shame to die , And end his days in Misery . Take warning young men by this vice , Learn to avoid the Cards and Dice : Lewd women's company now forbear , They are the highway unto care . All Parents while your Babes be young , Look to their ways in hand and tongue : Then wickedness will not abound , But grace in Children will be found . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Warning to all Lewd Livers . By the Example of a disobedient Child , who Riotously wasted and consumed his Father's and Mother's goods , and also his own , among Strumpets and other Lewd Livers , and died most miserably on a Dunghill . The Tune is , Sir And [ r ] ew Barton . M Y bleeding heart with grief and care , Does wish all youngmen to beware , That they not such like steps may tread , Nor led the life which I have led . My Father was a Gentleman , As many Gallants witness can : He had had no Son but only I , Which made his Gold and Silver fly . When as my Father had me sent To fell his goods , or take up rend : I did consume and waste the same , In drinking , or unlawful Game . The Cards and Dice were my delight , I haunted Taverns day and night : Lewd women were my chiefest joys , And my Consorts were Cutpurse boys . Gods Holy word I disobeyed , I cared not what the Preacher said : For quaffing Cans of Ale and Beer , Wa [ s ] all the Service I would hear . Then acting my ungracious part , I broke my aged Father's heart : When ghastly Death did on him seize , I thought my self in happy case . What he had left I thought well god , But now the shame falls to my lot : Five hundred pound of good read Gold , For wine and Beer I quickly sold . Then was I pressed to serve the King , That way might my name honour bring ; A Soldiers life I held it base , And always took it in disgrace . And having thus consumed my store , I to my Mother went for more : Who sold and Mortgaged her Land , And put the money in my hand . And then with tears these words she said , Thou knowest my Son thy Father's dead [ : ] No more is left but I and thee , Therefore dear Son be good to me . I F that thy love from me should fallen , I have no friend on earth at all : Therefore good Son to me prove kind , And thou reward in Heaven shalt find . Then on my bent knees fell I , Desiring of the Lord on high : A Shameful death might be his end , That would his Mother once offend . All you that do no reckoning make , Of swearing , when your words you speak : Give ear to that which I shall tell , Lewd Livers seldom dyeth well . You Disobedient Children all , Draw near and listen to my fallen : Example take , repent in time , lest that your woes be like to mine . You Father's dear , and Mother's kind , Bear you this Lesson in your mind : Trust not too much a wicked child , For oft times men are so beguiled . When Twigs are green you may them ply , But let them grow while they be dry ; They will so stiff and stubborn stand , You cannot bend them with your hand . So I that ran a wicked raze , And to amend had not the grace : Sixteen score pound in good read gold , Into my hand my mother told . But in the compass of one year , I spent it all as may appear : And having left no means at all , I unto Robbing straight did fallen . Thus did I steal my mother's Rings , Her Brass , her Pewter , and such things : The very Bed whereon she lay , I like a Villain stole away . Whatever I could get or take I thereof straight did money make : My flinty heart did feel no grief , To see my Mother want relief . At last she grew exceeding poor , And begged relief from door to door : No Infidel , nor Pagan vild , Could bring to light so bad a Child . At last my Mother lost her breath , As she constrained was by death : Who yields relief when friends grow scant , And ease to them that are in want . From place to place then was I tossed , By every man and woman crossed : No harbour could I get , whereby I might at night in safeguard lie . My dearest Kinsfolks do me chide , My dearest friends can't me abide : Those were my consorts of late , Their love is turned into hate . Those that have feasted many a time , And fed upon that which was mine : Despise at me along the street , As if they should a Serpent meet . Both old and young , both great and small , Both Rich and poor despise me all : No friend to take my part have I , But was constrained in fields to lie . In this my extreme misery , My grief and my necessity : No creature gave for my relief , One piece of bred to ease my grief . But like a poor despised wretch , His latest gasp that he did fetch , Was on a Dunghill in the Night , When as no creature was in sighed . But in the morning he was found , As cold as clay upon the ground : Thus was he born in shame to die , And end his days in Misery . Take warning young men by this vice , Learn to avoid the Cards and Dice : Lewd women's company now forbear , They are the highway unto care . All Parents while your Babes be young , Look to their ways in hand and tongue : Then wickedness will not abound , But grace in Children will be found . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 