The True LOYALIST ; OR , The Obedient SUBJECT , A Loyal SONG . To the Tune of , Let Caesar live long . L Et Caesar live long , and his temper abide , Who twenty years Plentiful seasons has tried , Let twenty , and twenty , be counted too few , Still every season consisting of new ; Till tired with the Joys which this world can afford , He retires to be made a more Glorious Lord . Let a Royal Almanzo Great , Caesar succeed , And England from Faction for ever be freed ; Through endless Succession may his Raze ever run , Who by Sea and by Land such wonders has done . May his issue increase , and these Nations Rule over , Until ages last perjod , and time be no more . U Pon our blessed Prince , may all blessings increase And England thus happy , still flourish in peace , For his safety and Life , may his Subject's all pray , And always be Loyal , and ever Obey ; All round the vast Globe may his Glories be known , And let Fame with her Trumpet declare his Renown May all his great actions increase in us love , And all his proceedings be Crowned above , May all in his Kingdoms prove Loyal and true , And Faction and Folly no longer pursue : May his Sceptre endure like the Sun , that does give A bright Beauty and Lustre to all things that live . May Angels preserve him that sits at the Helm , And teaches how Rulers should Govern a Realm ; All Princes in AEurope rehearse his Great Name , And his Wisdom and Conduct , and Glory proclaim : So happy are we in our Sovereign Lord , That's so great , good , and just , and so true to his word . While all other Kingdoms are busied in War , While tidings of troubles are brought from afar , It's England ( alone ) rests secure , void of fear , Then how happy , how happy , we Subject's are here : Our obedience and Duty will teach us to sing , And declare how the Nation is blessed in her King . Observe how some Cedar does stretch out his arms , And kindly protects the young Trees from all harms , No Tempest or Wind can his friendship remove , He braves all the Storms , and stands firm in his love ; Nor the wind hurts with cold , nor the Sun with his heat For he shades all their beauty , and makes them look sweet This Royal high Cedar is Caesar our King , The Trees are his Subject's safe under his Wing ; what clouds or what storms , or what winds need we fear When Angels guard him , for to guard us all here ; Long , long may he Reign here , whose Virtues we sing , And now , now Boys , your Sonnets all , God save the King . FINI S . This may be Printed , R P . Printed for J. Back at the Looking Glass on London - Bridge . The True LOYALIST ; OR , The Obedient SUBJECT , A Loyal SONG . To the Tune of , Let Caesar live long . L Et Caesar live long , and his temper abide , Who twenty years Plentiful seasons has tried , Let twenty , and twenty , be counted too few , Still every season consisting of new ; Till tired with the Joys which this world can afford , He retires to be made a more Glorious Lord . Let a Royal Almanzo Great , Caesar succeed , And England from Faction for ever be freed ; Through endless Succession may his Raze ever run , Who by Sea and by Land such wonders has done . May his issue increase , and these Nations Rule over , Until ages last perjod , and time be no more . U Pon our blessed Prince , may all blessings increase And England thus happy , still flourish in peace , For his safety and Life , may his Subject's all pray , And always be Loyal , and ever Obey ; All round the vast Globe may his Glories be known , And let Fame with her Trumpet declare his Renown May all his great actions increase in us love , And all his proceedings be Crowned above , May all in his Kingdoms prove Loyal and true , And Faction and Folly no longer pursue : May his Sceptre endure like the Sun , that does give A bright Beauty and Lustre to all things that live . May Angels preserve him that sits at the Helm , And teaches how Rulers should Govern a Realm ; All Princes in AEurope rehearse his Great Name , And his Wisdom and Conduct , and Glory proclaim : So happy are we in our Sovereign Lord , That's so great , good , and just , and so true to his word . While all other Kingdoms are busied in War , While tidings of troubles are brought from afar , It's England ( alone ) rests secure , void of fear , Then how happy , how happy , we Subject's are here : Our obedience and Duty will teach us to sing , And declare how the Nation is blessed in her King . Observe how some Cedar does stretch out his arms , And kindly protects the young Trees from all harms , No Tempest or Wind can his friendship remove , He braves all the Storms , and stands firm in his love ; Nor the wind hurts with cold , nor the Sun with his heat For he shades all their beauty , and makes them look sweet This Royal high Cedar is Caesar our King , The Trees are his Subject's safe under his Wing ; what clouds or what storms , or what winds need we fear When Angels guard him , for to guard us all here ; Long , long may he Reign here , whose Virtues we sing , And now , now Boys , your Sonnets all , God save the King . FINI S . This may be Printed , R P . Printed for J. Back at the Looking Glass on London - Bridge . 