ENGLANDS Misery's Crowned with Mercy . Showing the tender mercy and goodness of Almighty God in preserving is most Gracious Majesty , and his Royal Brother , from the cruel and bloody hands of their Enemies in the late horrid Plot . To the Tune of Aim not too High . O Ld England now rise up with one accord , And render forth thy praises to the Lord , For it is he that did securely keep , This from thy enemies while thou didst sleep . But if thou fear the Lord and serve him true , Thou needest not to fear what strength can do : For why the Lord by his almighty power , Can cast down thousands of them in and hour . It's he can cast them down or raise them up , It's in his power to make them taste his Cup : But those that serve him and on him depend , He surely does preserve till life does end . Within the later heavy plots of strife , Was laid which threatened death unto each life : Our Gracious Sovereign , and his brother kind , Those traitors would have killed with bloody mind But Lord preserve them both and keep them still According to thy wonted blessed will , Lord grant them happiness with peace and joy , And that they may all hellish plots destroy . And now good people I to you will tell , This horrid plot was surely hatched in Hell : And Satan to these men had given power , But God almighty soon did them devour . First at New-Market they a fire contrive , Thinking to leave no Christians there alive : But blessed be God the fire was sooner blown , Than they expected , so the Plot was known . And hereupon the King and his Nobles fled From thence to Cambridg being filled with dread As well they might for why those villains had , A worse plot in ambush for them laid . Some of these Traitors had confessed and said , Within the way a Cart they had conveyed : And overthrew it cross where they should go , Thereby to work poor Englands overthrow . They Pistols Guns and Blunderbusses had , Great store to make the stoutest heart seem sad ; On either side the way they placed were , For to destroy the flowers of England dear . But God who for his Servants does provide , Preserved sweet Englands flowers and them did guide , And so I pray to God to keep them still , That bloody Traitors may not have their will . Down on your knees you Rebels great and small And pray to God he may forgive you all : For if on earth he don't your Sins forgive , Besure your Souls shall never in heaven live . You greatest Gods are gone who gave you light Lord Russel he hath took his last goodnight , Shaftsbury , Hone , vile Rouse , and Walcot too , Hath of fair England took their last adieu . For Rebels more lies ready to be tried , I wish they may have all the Fish they Fried , And taste the Liquour which for us they brewed , God Save the King , and so I do conclude . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . ENGLANDS Misery's Crowned with Mercy . Showing the tender mercy and goodness of Almighty God in preserving is most Gracious Majesty , and his Royal Brother , from the cruel and bloody hands of their Enemies in the late horrid Plot . To the Tune of Aim not too High . O Ld England now rise up with one accord , And render forth thy praises to the Lord , For it is he that did securely keep , This from thy enemies while thou didst sleep . But if thou fear the Lord and serve him true , Thou needest not to fear what strength can do : For why the Lord by his almighty power , Can cast down thousands of them in and hour . It's he can cast them down or raise them up , It's in his power to make them taste his Cup : But those that serve him and on him depend , He surely does preserve till life does end . Within the later heavy plots of strife , Was laid which threatened death unto each life : Our Gracious Sovereign , and his brother kind , Those traitors would have killed with bloody mind But Lord preserve them both and keep them still According to thy wonted blessed will , Lord grant them happiness with peace and joy , And that they may all hellish plots destroy . And now good people I to you will tell , This horrid plot was surely hatched in Hell : And Satan to these men had given power , But God almighty soon did them devour . First at New-Market they a fire contrive , Thinking to leave no Christians there alive : But blessed be God the fire was sooner blown , Than they expected , so the Plot was known . And hereupon the King and his Nobles fled From thence to Cambridg being filled with dread As well they might for why those villains had , A worse plot in ambush for them laid . Some of these Traitors had confessed and said , Within the way a Cart they had conveyed : And overthrew it cross where they should go , Thereby to work poor Englands overthrow . They Pistols Guns and Blunderbusses had , Great store to make the stoutest heart seem sad ; On either side the way they placed were , For to destroy the flowers of England dear . But God who for his Servants does provide , Preserved sweet Englands flowers and them did guide , And so I pray to God to keep them still , That bloody Traitors may not have their will . Down on your knees you Rebels great and small And pray to God he may forgive you all : For if on earth he don't your Sins forgive , Besure your Souls shall never in heaven live . You greatest Gods are gone who gave you light Lord Russel he hath took his last goodnight , Shaftsbury , Hone , vile Rouse , and Walcot too , Hath of fair England took their last adieu . For Rebels more lies ready to be tried , I wish they may have all the Fish they Fried , And taste the Liquour which for us they brewed , God Save the King , and so I do conclude . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 