Mirth and Gladness , after sorrow and sadness . BEING THE Duchess of Monmouths Address of Thanks to His Majesty , and the Duke of York , for receiving in - to Favour his Grac James Duke of Monmouth . Tune of , the charms of Love . W Elcome Jemmy e [ ? ] my arms again , Farewell now all cause of mourning ; Jemmy now does recompense the pain That I had till his returning . But my Jemmy never more [ sh ] all leave me , No [ tO ] hing shall remove my Jemmy from my sighed , Nor of his sweet embraces ever more deprive me ; Monmouth is my comfort and my hearts delight . Farewell then to all my doubts and fears , Which I have had for my poor Jemmy ; And to all my heavy sighs and tears , When my Jemmy durst not see me . But my etc Farewell to those horrid wracking frights , W [ h ] en my Duke durst not come ne [ a ] r me , With which I spent the long and tedious night , When poor Monmouth did not hear me . But my etc All those joys of which true Lovers talk , Are so short of my possessing , When with Jemmy in the Court I walk , Methinks my pleasure's past expressing . But my Jemmy never more shall leave me , Nothing shall remove my emmy from my sighed Nor of his sweet embraces ever more deprive me Monmouth is my comfort and my hearts delight . Every pleasure that the Courts afford , Monmouth now does freely share it , To such favour he's again restored , As many envy that do hear it . But my Jemmy never more shall leave me ; Nothing shall remove my Jemmy from my sighed . Nor of his sweet embraces ever more deprive me , Monmouth is my comfort and my hearts delight . You that ever loved my Monmouth is name , Help me now to sing his story ; Monmouth never was in greater fame , Nor at Court in higher glory . But my etc , In my Arms my Jemmy still shall rest , Closely I will watch my treasure , With his lovely face upon my breast , All our days we'll spend in pleasure . But my etc Welcome Jemmy once more to thy Love , All my joys are now completed , Those that hoped my pleasure to remove , All their thoughts are now defeated . But my etc Come it is for them that chink it , since Jemmy has so good a Father , Sure a Merciful and Gracious Prince To receive him into favour . But my etc All the praises that to Kings belong , Should be gave to him most duly ; He that will forgive the greatest wrong , Does deserve our Prayers truly . But my etc Jemmy and my self will ever pray For his Health and Preservation ; That in our days we never may Want his Presence in the Nation But my etc To conclude , all those are of my mind That love Jemmy or his Father : Those that think his Father is too kin , Much ( I fear ) i never love neither . But my Jemmy never more shall leave me Nothing shall remove my Jammy from my sighed , Nor his sweet embraces ever more deceive me ; Monmouth is my comfort and my hearts delight LONDON , Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball in west [ = ] Smithfield . And at his Shop at the Harp and Ball near the Bear Tavern in P [ ie-Corne ] r . Mirth and Gladness , after sorrow and sadness . BEING THE Duchess of Monmouths Address of Thanks to His Majesty , and the Duke of York , for receiving in - to Favour his Grac James Duke of Monmouth . Tune of , the charms of Love . W Elcome Jemmy e [ ? ] my arms again , Farewell now all cause of mourning ; Jemmy now does recompense the pain That I had till his returning . But my Jemmy never more [ sh ] all leave me , No [ tO ] hing shall remove my Jemmy from my sighed , Nor of his sweet embraces ever more deprive me ; Monmouth is my comfort and my hearts delight . Farewell then to all my doubts and fears , Which I have had for my poor Jemmy ; And to all my heavy sighs and tears , When my Jemmy durst not see me . But my etc Farewell to those horrid wracking frights , W [ h ] en my Duke durst not come ne [ a ] r me , With which I spent the long and tedious night , When poor Monmouth did not hear me . But my etc All those joys of which true Lovers talk , Are so short of my possessing , When with Jemmy in the Court I walk , Methinks my pleasure's past expressing . But my Jemmy never more shall leave me , Nothing shall remove my emmy from my sighed Nor of his sweet embraces ever more deprive me Monmouth is my comfort and my hearts delight . Every pleasure that the Courts afford , Monmouth now does freely share it , To such favour he's again restored , As many envy that do hear it . But my Jemmy never more shall leave me ; Nothing shall remove my Jemmy from my sighed . Nor of his sweet embraces ever more deprive me , Monmouth is my comfort and my hearts delight . You that ever loved my Monmouth is name , Help me now to sing his story ; Monmouth never was in greater fame , Nor at Court in higher glory . But my etc , In my Arms my Jemmy still shall rest , Closely I will watch my treasure , With his lovely face upon my breast , All our days we'll spend in pleasure . But my etc Welcome Jemmy once more to thy Love , All my joys are now completed , Those that hoped my pleasure to remove , All their thoughts are now defeated . But my etc Come it is for them that chink it , since Jemmy has so good a Father , Sure a Merciful and Gracious Prince To receive him into favour . But my etc All the praises that to Kings belong , Should be gave to him most duly ; He that will forgive the greatest wrong , Does deserve our Prayers truly . But my etc Jemmy and my self will ever pray For his Health and Preservation ; That in our days we never may Want his Presence in the Nation But my etc To conclude , all those are of my mind That love Jemmy or his Father : Those that think his Father is too kin , Much ( I fear ) i never love neither . But my Jemmy never more shall leave me Nothing shall remove my Jammy from my sighed , Nor his sweet embraces ever more deceive me ; Monmouth is my comfort and my hearts delight LONDON , Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball in west [ = ] Smithfield . And at his Shop at the Harp and Ball near the Bear Tavern in P [ ie-Corne ] r . 