The New Courtier : TO he TO une is , Cloris , since thou art fled away , etc U Pon the Change where Merchant's meet Betwixt Cornhill and Thredneedle-street : Where Wits of every size is hurled , To treat of all things in the World : I saw a folded Paper fallen , And upon it , these words were writ , Have at all . Thought I , if Have at All it be , For ought I know , it's have at Me : And ( if the consequence be true ) It may as well be Have at You : Then listen pray to what I shall , In brief declare , what's written there : Have at all . SONG . I Am a Courtier , who in sport , Do come from the Utopian Court , To whisper softly in your Ear , How high we are , and what we were : To tell you all would be too much , But here and there a little touch , Have at all . I was not many years ago , In tatered trim from top to toe : But now my ruined Robes are burned , My Rags are all to Ribbons turned : My Patches into Pieces fallen , I clog a Die , Swagger and Lie , Have at all . Upon my Pantelonian Pate I wear a Milleners Estate : But when he Duns me at the Court , I show him a Protection fored : While he does to Protesting fallen , I cry , Dam me , Sir , you lie , Have at all . Since Venus shaved off my Hair , A powdered Perewig I wear , Which brings me in the Golden Girls , Game-Royal for Dukes , Lords and Earls : When Love does for a cooler call , My fancy drives , at maids and wives , Have at all . The Second Part , to the same Tune . M Y Lodgings never are at quiet , Another Duns me for my Diet , I had of him in Fifty three , Which I forgotten , so did not he : I call him saucy Fellow , sirrah , And draw my Sword to run him through Have at all . Yet once a Friend that saved my Life , Who had a witty wanton wife , I did in ( courtesy ) requite , Made him a Cuckold , and a Knight : Which makes him mount like Tennis ball , While she & amp ; I , together cry : Have at all . But yet these Citts are subtle Slaves , Most of them Wits , and knowing Knaves ; We get their Children , and they do , From us get Lands , and Lordship's too : And it's most fit in those affairs The lands should go to the right hairs Have at all . A Soldier I directly hate : A Cavelier once broke my Pate With Cane in hand he overcome me And took away my Mistress from me : For I confess I love a Wench Be she E nglish , Irish , Dutch , or French Have at all . A Soldiers life is not like mine I will be Plump when he shall Pine ? My Projects carry stronger force Then all their Armed Foot and Horse : What though his mortar-peeres roar My Chimney-pieces shall do more : Have at all . Thus I have given you in short A Courtier of Utopian Court . I Write not of Religion , For ( to tell you truly ) we have none . If any me to Question call , With pen or Sword , Hab Nab's the Word Have at all . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. TO hackeray , and T. P assinger . The New Courtier : TO he TO une is , Cloris , since thou art fled away , etc U Pon the Change where Merchant's meet Betwixt Cornhill and Thredneedle-street : Where Wits of every size is hurled , To treat of all things in the World : I saw a folded Paper fallen , And upon it , these words were writ , Have at all . Thought I , if Have at All it be , For ought I know , it's have at Me : And ( if the consequence be true ) It may as well be Have at You : Then listen pray to what I shall , In brief declare , what's written there : Have at all . SONG . I Am a Courtier , who in sport , Do come from the Utopian Court , To whisper softly in your Ear , How high we are , and what we were : To tell you all would be too much , But here and there a little touch , Have at all . I was not many years ago , In tatered trim from top to toe : But now my ruined Robes are burned , My Rags are all to Ribbons turned : My Patches into Pieces fallen , I clog a Die , Swagger and Lie , Have at all . Upon my Pantelonian Pate I wear a Milleners Estate : But when he Duns me at the Court , I show him a Protection fored : While he does to Protesting fallen , I cry , Dam me , Sir , you lie , Have at all . Since Venus shaved off my Hair , A powdered Perewig I wear , Which brings me in the Golden Girls , Game-Royal for Dukes , Lords and Earls : When Love does for a cooler call , My fancy drives , at maids and wives , Have at all . The Second Part , to the same Tune . M Y Lodgings never are at quiet , Another Duns me for my Diet , I had of him in Fifty three , Which I forgotten , so did not he : I call him saucy Fellow , sirrah , And draw my Sword to run him through Have at all . Yet once a Friend that saved my Life , Who had a witty wanton wife , I did in ( courtesy ) requite , Made him a Cuckold , and a Knight : Which makes him mount like Tennis ball , While she & amp ; I , together cry : Have at all . But yet these Citts are subtle Slaves , Most of them Wits , and knowing Knaves ; We get their Children , and they do , From us get Lands , and Lordship's too : And it's most fit in those affairs The lands should go to the right hairs Have at all . A Soldier I directly hate : A Cavelier once broke my Pate With Cane in hand he overcome me And took away my Mistress from me : For I confess I love a Wench Be she E nglish , Irish , Dutch , or French Have at all . A Soldiers life is not like mine I will be Plump when he shall Pine ? My Projects carry stronger force Then all their Armed Foot and Horse : What though his mortar-peeres roar My Chimney-pieces shall do more : Have at all . Thus I have given you in short A Courtier of Utopian Court . I Write not of Religion , For ( to tell you truly ) we have none . If any me to Question call , With pen or Sword , Hab Nab's the Word Have at all . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. TO hackeray , and T. P assinger . 