Sorrowful SUBJECT , Or , Great-Brittains Calamity . Showing , The great Grief , Care , and Sorrow , that possessed the Loyal Subject's of England , for the loss of the most Illustrious PRINCE CHARLES the Second : Who departed this Life on Feb . the 6th . 1684 . to the great Astonishment and Lamentation of the whole Nation . To the Tune of , Troy Town . H Owe England is oppressed with grief , no tongue is able to express , Yet knows not how to find relief , such is her dreadful heaviness : For cruel Death with his cold Dart , Hath pierced Great Charles his tender heart . Great England is Monarch , [ e ? ] rt thou dead ! that filled the world with such Renown ? They Princely Soul to Heaven is fled , to wear and Everlasting Crown : Great pity it's that Death's cold Dart , Should prick our Sovereign to the heart . Whole showers of tears for thee were spent and Men distracted seemed to be , But 'twas too late for to lament , such was thy cruel Destiny : That Death with his all-killing Dart , Did prick and pierce , etc To loose thy Royal Father dear , to England was a Judgement soar , And grieved his Subject's many a Year , whose hapless fate did deplore : But now grim Death with his cold Dart , Hath pricked and pierced , etc Yet when the rumour once was spread , which brought the tidings of thy death , Thy Subject's were astonished , and could not speak for want of breath : But mourned that Death's all-killing Dart Should prick and pierce , etc No prince more dearly was beloved , then Charles the Great , for many a year , No Prince more suddenly removed , from those who loved their King so dear : For now grim Death with his cold Dart , Hath pricked and pierced , etc Valleys of Sighs are spent in vain , yet do thy Subject's goodness show , Though Rich and Poor , and all complain , it's to no purpose well they know : Since cruel Death with his cold Dart , Hath pricked , etc . How did we wish for to enjoy our Sovereign Prince for many a year But Fortune did our hope's destroy , by snatching him we loved so dear : And cruel Death with his cold Dart ; Hath pierced Great Charles his Princely heart . Yet this to us some comfort brings , and helps us in our sad distress ; Thou now art with the King of Kings , and blessed with lasting Happiness : Tho's cruel Death with his cold Dart , Did pierce , etc Let Rich and Poor wherever they be , prepared be to meet with Death ; For he will come assuredly , to stop each sinful mortals breath : ' It he with his none-sparing Dart , Did pierce Great Charles his Princely hea [ rt . ] FINIS . LONDON , Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passing [ er . ] Sorrowful SUBJECT , Or , Great-Brittains Calamity . Showing , The great Grief , Care , and Sorrow , that possessed the Loyal Subject's of England , for the loss of the most Illustrious PRINCE CHARLES the Second : Who departed this Life on Feb . the 6th . 1684 . to the great Astonishment and Lamentation of the whole Nation . To the Tune of , Troy Town . H Owe England is oppressed with grief , no tongue is able to express , Yet knows not how to find relief , such is her dreadful heaviness : For cruel Death with his cold Dart , Hath pierced Great Charles his tender heart . Great England is Monarch , [ e ? ] rt thou dead ! that filled the world with such Renown ? They Princely Soul to Heaven is fled , to wear and Everlasting Crown : Great pity it's that Death's cold Dart , Should prick our Sovereign to the heart . Whole showers of tears for thee were spent and Men distracted seemed to be , But 'twas too late for to lament , such was thy cruel Destiny : That Death with his all-killing Dart , Did prick and pierce , etc To loose thy Royal Father dear , to England was a Judgement soar , And grieved his Subject's many a Year , whose hapless fate did deplore : But now grim Death with his cold Dart , Hath pricked and pierced , etc Yet when the rumour once was spread , which brought the tidings of thy death , Thy Subject's were astonished , and could not speak for want of breath : But mourned that Death's all-killing Dart Should prick and pierce , etc No prince more dearly was beloved , then Charles the Great , for many a year , No Prince more suddenly removed , from those who loved their King so dear : For now grim Death with his cold Dart , Hath pricked and pierced , etc Valleys of Sighs are spent in vain , yet do thy Subject's goodness show , Though Rich and Poor , and all complain , it's to no purpose well they know : Since cruel Death with his cold Dart , Hath pricked , etc . How did we wish for to enjoy our Sovereign Prince for many a year But Fortune did our hope's destroy , by snatching him we loved so dear : And cruel Death with his cold Dart ; Hath pierced Great Charles his Princely heart . Yet this to us some comfort brings , and helps us in our sad distress ; Thou now art with the King of Kings , and blessed with lasting Happiness : Tho's cruel Death with his cold Dart , Did pierce , etc Let Rich and Poor wherever they be , prepared be to meet with Death ; For he will come assuredly , to stop each sinful mortals breath : ' It he with his none-sparing Dart , Did pierce Great Charles his Princely hea [ rt . ] FINIS . LONDON , Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passing [ er . ] 