Brittains TRIUMPH In the Coronation of their most Sacred Majesties , who were Crowned with great Splendour in Westminster-Abbey , on the 23d of April , 1685. And in the First Year of His Majesties Happy Reign , etc Great Isle forbear to mourn for Him thats gone To Sacred Mansions , since so bright a Sun Arises in our happy Horizon ; To Cheer the smiling Nation with his Rays , And in His Reign afford us happy Days . To the Tune of , Young Phaon ; Or , Busy Fame . L Et Brittain now with joy abound , each Loyal heart be glad , Since James our Gracious King is Crowned , no cause there's to be sad : The Triumph of the Glorious day , who can but think upon , That did such Royalty Display , the like was never known . When all the Nobles of the Land , of either Sex were met , With one consent with heart and hand , the Diadems to set Upon the Head of our good King , and she our Gracious Queen , [ Whom ] Guardian Angels ' neath their wing , [ protect ] from Rebels Spleen . From the Old Palace through the street , then passed the Royal Train , Where Cloth was spread beneath their feet , died in the Richest Grain : While the glad Crowds on each side seen , with joyful voices cry , God Bless our gracious King and Queen , and let all Traitors die . Then to the Abbey did they pass , in orderly Array , Through Multitudes , who from each place do bless the happy day : Wherein a King so good , so great , does weat Great-Brittains Crown Whose matchless virtue did so late increase his high Renown . Which wicked M [ e ] n thought for to soil , or to eclipse it quite , But still their Malice proved a foil , to make it shine more bright : The Sacred Ceremony done , to all good men's content : The Trumpets did proclaim it soon , and shouts to Heaven were sent . Their loud applause made all to ring , with joyful Acclamation , And thanks to Heaven that with a King , so just had blessed the Nation : And now to grace the happy day , the Nobles nothing spare , And in degree as well as they , the Commons likewise share . Healths to our gracious King and Queen , do in all parts abound , To'th Royal Family is seen , the like for to go round : The Loyalists in e'ry street , congratulate and sing , Happy are we that live to see't , a Second James our King . The Night seemed day with Blazing Fire , the Bells' sweet Music make , While Fireworks to the Clouds aspire , and loud mouthed Cannons speak : The Nations sense of happiness , in this so joyful day , A happiness for to express , words scarce can find a way . Long may our Glorious Monarch reign , long live our King and Queen , And let all those have shame and pain , that will not say Amen : May Heaven likewise for ever bless , the Royal Family , And for all those that wish them less , let those like Traitors die . FINIS . Printed for John Clarke , William Thackeray Thomas Passenger . Brittains TRIUMPH In the Coronation of their most Sacred Majesties , who were Crowned with great Splendour in Westminster-Abbey , on the 23d of April , 1685. And in the First Year of His Majesties Happy Reign , etc Great Isle forbear to mourn for Him thats gone To Sacred Mansions , since so bright a Sun Arises in our happy Horizon ; To Cheer the smiling Nation with his Rays , And in His Reign afford us happy Days . To the Tune of , Young Phaon ; Or , Busy Fame . L Et Brittain now with joy abound , each Loyal heart be glad , Since James our Gracious King is Crowned , no cause there's to be sad : The Triumph of the Glorious day , who can but think upon , That did such Royalty Display , the like was never known . When all the Nobles of the Land , of either Sex were met , With one consent with heart and hand , the Diadems to set Upon the Head of our good King , and she our Gracious Queen , [ Whom ] Guardian Angels ' neath their wing , [ protect ] from Rebels Spleen . From the Old Palace through the street , then passed the Royal Train , Where Cloth was spread beneath their feet , died in the Richest Grain : While the glad Crowds on each side seen , with joyful voices cry , God Bless our gracious King and Queen , and let all Traitors die . Then to the Abbey did they pass , in orderly Array , Through Multitudes , who from each place do bless the happy day : Wherein a King so good , so great , does weat Great-Brittains Crown Whose matchless virtue did so late increase his high Renown . Which wicked M [ e ] n thought for to soil , or to eclipse it quite , But still their Malice proved a foil , to make it shine more bright : The Sacred Ceremony done , to all good men's content : The Trumpets did proclaim it soon , and shouts to Heaven were sent . Their loud applause made all to ring , with joyful Acclamation , And thanks to Heaven that with a King , so just had blessed the Nation : And now to grace the happy day , the Nobles nothing spare , And in degree as well as they , the Commons likewise share . Healths to our gracious King and Queen , do in all parts abound , To'th Royal Family is seen , the like for to go round : The Loyalists in e'ry street , congratulate and sing , Happy are we that live to see't , a Second James our King . The Night seemed day with Blazing Fire , the Bells' sweet Music make , While Fireworks to the Clouds aspire , and loud mouthed Cannons speak : The Nations sense of happiness , in this so joyful day , A happiness for to express , words scarce can find a way . Long may our Glorious Monarch reign , long live our King and Queen , And let all those have shame and pain , that will not say Amen : May Heaven likewise for ever bless , the Royal Family , And for all those that wish them less , let those like Traitors die . FINIS . Printed for John Clarke , William Thackeray Thomas Passenger . 