Englands joys increased , By the Happy coronation of James the Second , Englands most so - veraign Monarch . Now Loyal Hearts rejoice and sing , Great JAMES is Crowned your sovereign King GOD prosper him in all his ways , And send him long and happy days . Tune of , A New Game at Cards . Y Ou Loyal-hearted English-men Cheer up your spirits once again , From heaven , blessings do pour down That do great James with Honour Crown As if he were on purpose sent To fill the English Nation with content . See how the Drums and Trumpets go In Rank , and order in their row , To grace this great and glorious sighed Which may to us bring such delight , That with one voice we all may sing God bless , & amp ; ever prosper Englands King . Mind how the hearts of people are Filled with comforts e'ry where While e'ry tongue does plain express The Nations joys and happiness ; Great James the second may thy Name Fly e'ry where on lofty wings of fame . Now Subject's all where ere you be Found [ f ] orth your love and Loyalty , And let all other Nations know None to their King more duty owe ; The world shall never me convince True subject's ever had a braver Prince . Great Dukes and Lords will present be To grace this great solemnity ; With Lords and Barons of the Land As plainly I do understand , Now far and near they flock amain To see great James , and his most Noble train . Long live great James thy Subject's joy That nothing may thy bliss annoy And let thy Subject's under thee Be crowned with prosperity ; That none in all thy happy Reign May have a reason to complain . That from thy Royal Loins there may Such branches spring that always may Be blossoms of the Stewarts name Whose Ancestors long lived in fame ; And dying left such names behind As you in ancient Records scarce can find . Then God preserve our Sovereign King , That he to us may comfort bring , Preserve and keep him from his foes And all that would our Prince oppose ; That he may flourish still in peace And e'ry minute may his friends increase . So may our Nation happy be And flourish in prosperity A gracious King and Subject's true Their joys and comforts may renew ; And blossom like the spreading tree That never with cold or frost may blasted be . Now to conclude brave English boys See the completing of your joys , Show your Allegiance to your King And that will our contentment bring ; He that his Prince does disobey , His joys will wither quickly and decay . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . Englands joys increased , By the Happy coronation of James the Second , Englands most so - veraign Monarch . Now Loyal Hearts rejoice and sing , Great JAMES is Crowned your sovereign King GOD prosper him in all his ways , And send him long and happy days . Tune of , A New Game at Cards . Y Ou Loyal-hearted English-men Cheer up your spirits once again , From heaven , blessings do pour down That do great James with Honour Crown As if he were on purpose sent To fill the English Nation with content . See how the Drums and Trumpets go In Rank , and order in their row , To grace this great and glorious sighed Which may to us bring such delight , That with one voice we all may sing God bless , & amp ; ever prosper Englands King . Mind how the hearts of people are Filled with comforts e'ry where While e'ry tongue does plain express The Nations joys and happiness ; Great James the second may thy Name Fly e'ry where on lofty wings of fame . Now Subject's all where ere you be Found [ f ] orth your love and Loyalty , And let all other Nations know None to their King more duty owe ; The world shall never me convince True subject's ever had a braver Prince . Great Dukes and Lords will present be To grace this great solemnity ; With Lords and Barons of the Land As plainly I do understand , Now far and near they flock amain To see great James , and his most Noble train . Long live great James thy Subject's joy That nothing may thy bliss annoy And let thy Subject's under thee Be crowned with prosperity ; That none in all thy happy Reign May have a reason to complain . That from thy Royal Loins there may Such branches spring that always may Be blossoms of the Stewarts name Whose Ancestors long lived in fame ; And dying left such names behind As you in ancient Records scarce can find . Then God preserve our Sovereign King , That he to us may comfort bring , Preserve and keep him from his foes And all that would our Prince oppose ; That he may flourish still in peace And e'ry minute may his friends increase . So may our Nation happy be And flourish in prosperity A gracious King and Subject's true Their joys and comforts may renew ; And blossom like the spreading tree That never with cold or frost may blasted be . Now to conclude brave English boys See the completing of your joys , Show your Allegiance to your King And that will our contentment bring ; He that his Prince does disobey , His joys will wither quickly and decay . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 