A Loyal SONG , on KING JAMES His Royal BIRTH-Day : To the Tune of , The Cannons Roar . H Ark ! I hear the Trumpets found , While Loyal Subject's Souls are Crowned , With joys that ever will abound , and fill their hearts with mirth too , While all do for our Sovereign prey , Whom Heaven commands us to obey , And Solemnly observe the Day of his most Royal Birth too . Harmonious Music fills mine ear , And all things pleasant do appear , God prosper long our Prince so dear , still cries the Grave and Sober , Oh Let it not forgotten be , But keep with all Solemnity , In Honour of his Majesty , the Fourteenth of October . Did you Behold the Serpents Fly ? While Bonfires Light the Gloomy Sky . God Bless King James was all the cry , throughout the Streets of London : Now let his Enemies complain , In peace and quiet he shall Reign , Our Liberties for to Maintain , whom Traitors would have undone . Come Fill a Glass unto the Brim , In Sack let all our sorrows swim And drink a full Carouse to him whom Heaven hath long preserved : And did their enmity oppose , Who did declare themselves his Foes , To dangers did themselves expose , as it hath been observed . Now Loyalty does led the Van , And let them me disprove that can , It's that alone that makes the man , and so will do for ever : No wavering thoughts lodge in your breast , If you will be for ever blessed , But let Great James still live at rest , for so he does endeavour . Europes Great Monarch Heavens bless , And Crown thy head with happiness , This freely now I do express , which fills my heart with mirth too , That as it is well understood , Thou dost descend from Royal Blood , So thou'rt not only Great but Good , the glory of the Earth too . The Powers of Heaven still pour down , Eternal blessings on thy Crown , And keep these wicked Spirits down , who strive for to annoy thee : It's our Delight both day and night , To vindicate Great Jameses Right , Who happy are in fates despite , if we can but enjoy thee . No feigned Wit can me convince , England ever had a Braver Prince , Whose virtue shows his innocence , with Laurel is he Crowned : Let every Tongue applaud his Name , And spread his worth on wings of fame , While we true Subject's do proclaim , Great James the most Renowned . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy , on tO [ he ] middle of London - B ridge . A Loyal SONG , on KING JAMES His Royal BIRTH-Day : To the Tune of , The Cannons Roar . H Ark ! I hear the Trumpets found , While Loyal Subject's Souls are Crowned , With joys that ever will abound , and fill their hearts with mirth too , While all do for our Sovereign prey , Whom Heaven commands us to obey , And Solemnly observe the Day of his most Royal Birth too . Harmonious Music fills mine ear , And all things pleasant do appear , God prosper long our Prince so dear , still cries the Grave and Sober , Oh Let it not forgotten be , But keep with all Solemnity , In Honour of his Majesty , the Fourteenth of October . Did you Behold the Serpents Fly ? While Bonfires Light the Gloomy Sky . God Bless King James was all the cry , throughout the Streets of London : Now let his Enemies complain , In peace and quiet he shall Reign , Our Liberties for to Maintain , whom Traitors would have undone . Come Fill a Glass unto the Brim , In Sack let all our sorrows swim And drink a full Carouse to him whom Heaven hath long preserved : And did their enmity oppose , Who did declare themselves his Foes , To dangers did themselves expose , as it hath been observed . Now Loyalty does led the Van , And let them me disprove that can , It's that alone that makes the man , and so will do for ever : No wavering thoughts lodge in your breast , If you will be for ever blessed , But let Great James still live at rest , for so he does endeavour . Europes Great Monarch Heavens bless , And Crown thy head with happiness , This freely now I do express , which fills my heart with mirth too , That as it is well understood , Thou dost descend from Royal Blood , So thou'rt not only Great but Good , the glory of the Earth too . The Powers of Heaven still pour down , Eternal blessings on thy Crown , And keep these wicked Spirits down , who strive for to annoy thee : It's our Delight both day and night , To vindicate Great Jameses Right , Who happy are in fates despite , if we can but enjoy thee . No feigned Wit can me convince , England ever had a Braver Prince , Whose virtue shows his innocence , with Laurel is he Crowned : Let every Tongue applaud his Name , And spread his worth on wings of fame , While we true Subject's do proclaim , Great James the most Renowned . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy , on tO [ he ] middle of London - B ridge . 