LONDONS LOYALTY : OR , A New SONG on the Royal Coronation . To the Tune of , Hark the Thundering Cannons roar . S Owned a Trumpet , beatrice a Drum , Since the happy Day is come , That rejoiceth Christendom , and James is now Anointed : Though the Plotters all did dive , And Sedition did contrive , He their Malice does survive , and Reigns , as God appointed . Let his Subject's shout and sing , All in gladness for the [ ir ] King , And rejoice now with the Spring , because the shadow's flying ; Now let Valour have the place , Loyalty hath gained the Raze , And on Treason turned the Chase , and now Rebellion's dying . Now the Tempest is overpast , And the Heaven that was overcast , Turned both clear and bright at last , and Phoebus he is shining ; Let us play the fool no more , Nor longer run on Treasons score , As some of us have done before , since James in peace is Reigning . Rouse Great Monarch then , whom Fate Hath Sirnominated Great , To Gaurd and Rule both Church and State , and trace brave Alexander ; Now the Turk dare not presume , To think to Conquer Christendom , Or Tyrannise for time to come , to be the World's Commander . When Hogan-mogan did disdain To take on Brittains Yoke again , He led the Fleet unto the Main , and bravely did behave him : When Brains and Bullets flew about , He proved himself both wise and stout , And cried , Let's have the other bout , we will both fight and slave them . He's the First-Rate Sovereign Blood , Laden with the Kingdoms Good , Tossed betwixt the Wind and Flood , whom Providence ensureth ; Though the true Religions vail , Were made Treasons highest sail , The hope of Hypocrites would fail , for Truth alone endureth . Heap me a rousing Glass with Wine , Let no Man at this health repine , To James the Great I'll drink off mine , he knows both Sword and Sceptre : When madness did make Brittain Dance , The Tragedy of base Mischance , His Practice did his parts Enhance , and was Complete still after . Honest Fellow , live Content , Kindly take what God hath sent , Think what way to pay thy Rend , and strive to fly no higher : He's a Fool ( at any rate ) Meddleth with the Church or State , He'l repent when it's too late , and say that i'm no Lyar. Fear the Lord , Honour the King , Submit to Fate ( in every thing ) Do thy Business and Sing , and never think on sorrow : In private eat thy Honey-Comb , Kiss thy Wife , and keep at home , Never think on what's to come , for none hath seen to Morrow . [ Printed for C. Dennison ] LONDONS LOYALTY : OR , A New SONG on the Royal Coronation . To the Tune of , Hark the Thundering Cannons roar . S Owned a Trumpet , beatrice a Drum , Since the happy Day is come , That rejoiceth Christendom , and James is now Anointed : Though the Plotters all did dive , And Sedition did contrive , He their Malice does survive , and Reigns , as God appointed . Let his Subject's shout and sing , All in gladness for the [ ir ] King , And rejoice now with the Spring , because the shadow's flying ; Now let Valour have the place , Loyalty hath gained the Raze , And on Treason turned the Chase , and now Rebellion's dying . Now the Tempest is overpast , And the Heaven that was overcast , Turned both clear and bright at last , and Phoebus he is shining ; Let us play the fool no more , Nor longer run on Treasons score , As some of us have done before , since James in peace is Reigning . Rouse Great Monarch then , whom Fate Hath Sirnominated Great , To Gaurd and Rule both Church and State , and trace brave Alexander ; Now the Turk dare not presume , To think to Conquer Christendom , Or Tyrannise for time to come , to be the World's Commander . When Hogan-mogan did disdain To take on Brittains Yoke again , He led the Fleet unto the Main , and bravely did behave him : When Brains and Bullets flew about , He proved himself both wise and stout , And cried , Let's have the other bout , we will both fight and slave them . He's the First-Rate Sovereign Blood , Laden with the Kingdoms Good , Tossed betwixt the Wind and Flood , whom Providence ensureth ; Though the true Religions vail , Were made Treasons highest sail , The hope of Hypocrites would fail , for Truth alone endureth . Heap me a rousing Glass with Wine , Let no Man at this health repine , To James the Great I'll drink off mine , he knows both Sword and Sceptre : When madness did make Brittain Dance , The Tragedy of base Mischance , His Practice did his parts Enhance , and was Complete still after . Honest Fellow , live Content , Kindly take what God hath sent , Think what way to pay thy Rend , and strive to fly no higher : He's a Fool ( at any rate ) Meddleth with the Church or State , He'l repent when it's too late , and say that i'm no Lyar. Fear the Lord , Honour the King , Submit to Fate ( in every thing ) Do thy Business and Sing , and never think on sorrow : In private eat thy Honey-Comb , Kiss thy Wife , and keep at home , Never think on what's to come , for none hath seen to Morrow . [ Printed for C. Dennison ] 