The London Lasses Folly , OR , The MAIDEN Beguiled . This Maiden wild she was Beguiled , to lose her Maiden-Head , And when that he had god his will , away from her he fled . To the Tune of , The Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be printed , R . L. S. N Ot long ago it chanced so , abroad as I was walking , A Damsel-fair I soon espied , and to her self was talking : Ah! woe is me , poor wretch quoth she , that had not forecast rather For now I am grown big with Bearn , but I do not know the Father . One night when I lay in my Bed , to sleep as it was needful , And having but a careless head , and being much unheedful : A youngman came , but not his name by him I could not gather , That night i'm sure I proved with bearn but I do not know the Father . He made no stay , but whipped away , when he had had his pleasure , Oh that nights work hath me undone , I may repent at leisure ; Now will I ramble up and down , to find our this young shaver , For if he live in L ondon-Town , my C held shall have a Father . I think no C arpenter was he , no S hipwright , nor no Sailor , I rather think it for to be some lusty jovial Taylor : Or if he were a Glover good , a Black-Smith , or a Weaver , My meaning may be understood , my C held should have a F ather . Or if he were a Butler bold , a Baker , or a Brewer , No secret place my friend shall hold but I will find him sure ; Or if he were a Servingman , a Royster , or a S haver , I'll find my Gallant if I can , my C held must have a Father . But if I can by no means find the Man that I ado [ r ] n Sir , I'll rest my self content in mind , until my Child is born Sir ; And when he comes to 7 years old , I by my Child shall gather , For he will be of qualities like unto his right Father . For if a F leming god my Child , he will eat all the Butter Or if he be a S paniard wild , he'll keep a deadly clutter : Or if he be and Irish Teague , my Child will ride the Hobby , Or if he be a Welsh-man like , Cotts-Plues he loves Cows-Bobby . Or if he be a Scotch-mans Son , he will begin a Quarrel , Or if he be of a French-mans Bone , he'l pawn his best aparrel : Or if he be a Soldiers Son , I'll buy him a Hat and Feather , And with a Drum i'll send my Son to see [ k ] out his right Father . When she had finished all her talk , from thence she soon departed , And then another way did walk , both blithe and merry hearted ; But then I cannot now surmise , or any way can gather , Or which way then she could devise to find out her C hilds Father . Prinned for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . The London Lasses Folly , OR , The MAIDEN Beguiled . This Maiden wild she was Beguiled , to lose her Maiden-Head , And when that he had god his will , away from her he fled . To the Tune of , The Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be printed , R . L. S. N Ot long ago it chanced so , abroad as I was walking , A Damsel-fair I soon espied , and to her self was talking : Ah! woe is me , poor wretch quoth she , that had not forecast rather For now I am grown big with Bearn , but I do not know the Father . One night when I lay in my Bed , to sleep as it was needful , And having but a careless head , and being much unheedful : A youngman came , but not his name by him I could not gather , That night i'm sure I proved with bearn but I do not know the Father . He made no stay , but whipped away , when he had had his pleasure , Oh that nights work hath me undone , I may repent at leisure ; Now will I ramble up and down , to find our this young shaver , For if he live in L ondon-Town , my C held shall have a Father . I think no C arpenter was he , no S hipwright , nor no Sailor , I rather think it for to be some lusty jovial Taylor : Or if he were a Glover good , a Black-Smith , or a Weaver , My meaning may be understood , my C held should have a F ather . Or if he were a Butler bold , a Baker , or a Brewer , No secret place my friend shall hold but I will find him sure ; Or if he were a Servingman , a Royster , or a S haver , I'll find my Gallant if I can , my C held must have a Father . But if I can by no means find the Man that I ado [ r ] n Sir , I'll rest my self content in mind , until my Child is born Sir ; And when he comes to 7 years old , I by my Child shall gather , For he will be of qualities like unto his right Father . For if a F leming god my Child , he will eat all the Butter Or if he be a S paniard wild , he'll keep a deadly clutter : Or if he be and Irish Teague , my Child will ride the Hobby , Or if he be a Welsh-man like , Cotts-Plues he loves Cows-Bobby . Or if he be a Scotch-mans Son , he will begin a Quarrel , Or if he be of a French-mans Bone , he'l pawn his best aparrel : Or if he be a Soldiers Son , I'll buy him a Hat and Feather , And with a Drum i'll send my Son to see [ k ] out his right Father . When she had finished all her talk , from thence she soon departed , And then another way did walk , both blithe and merry hearted ; But then I cannot now surmise , or any way can gather , Or which way then she could devise to find out her C hilds Father . Prinned for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 