Monmouth Worsted In the WEST . Or , His Care and Grief for the Death of his poor Soldiers . TO ogether with his Worthy S ayings , while he remained obscure in a silent Grove , in presence of some of his particular F riends . To the Tune of , The Soldiers Departure . N Owe we see the Fight is over , now poor Monmouth must away , All our strength they do discover , and seek my life for to betray : Come let us away to Holland , there we shall be safe I'm sure , And my men will follow after , there we shall be all secure . If I had but Ammunition , I could quickly win the Field ; But I'm left on a bad condition , to my Enemies I must yield : Yet I have so great a spirit , that I will not thus give over , Though I may a while defer it , yet I'll face my Foes once more . Britains Rights I am renewing , Can this give a just offence ? Those that glory in my Ruin , I in time may recompense . For I'll have a stronger Army , and of Ammunition store : I'll have Drums & amp ; Trumpets charming , when as I come on Englands shore . I will give them thundering Battle when I do return again And when roraing Guns do rattle , who dare say that I am slave ? Charge them to the highest Centre , for to make the Papists fly , Like and Fortune I will venture , to reward their Cruelty . My poor Soldiers they was taken and in Droves to Prison sent , This may protestants awaken , to behold Romes black intent : They show not a grain of pity , which does grieve my heart full soar ; For in every Town and City they were hanged at their own door . There they ripped their bellies open , and their bodies burned hard by ; Tell me , is not this a Token of the Acts of Cruelty ? Nay , they cut them into quarters while they reekt in purple gore ; Never was there suchlike Creatures in a Christian Land before . Though poor Souls their Lives were ended , yet , alas ! this would not do , Malice further still extended , for they boiled their Quarters too . All to terrify the Nation with my poor dead mangled men ; While each tender dear Relation needs must be afflicted then . This is now my greatest trouble , for to hear their fatal Doom , I for this will Strokes redouble on the Scarlet Whore of Room ; Who delights in nought but Murder as in truth it does appear , But I'll send her flying further when I bring next Army here . Though this is a dismal Story , of the fallen of my design , Yet I'll come again in Glory if I live till Eighty Nine : With fresh Forces I will rally , scorning thus to be controlled , At the Head of each Battalions Noble great Commanders bold . Though I come with flying Banner to the Land which I belong , I declare upon my Honour , not a Subject will I wrong Of the Protestant Profession , whom I ever did adore , Think upon this dear Expression , Heavens bless you evermore . printed for D. I . Monmouth Worsted In the WEST . Or , His Care and Grief for the Death of his poor Soldiers . TO ogether with his Worthy S ayings , while he remained obscure in a silent Grove , in presence of some of his particular F riends . To the Tune of , The Soldiers Departure . N Owe we see the Fight is over , now poor Monmouth must away , All our strength they do discover , and seek my life for to betray : Come let us away to Holland , there we shall be safe I'm sure , And my men will follow after , there we shall be all secure . If I had but Ammunition , I could quickly win the Field ; But I'm left on a bad condition , to my Enemies I must yield : Yet I have so great a spirit , that I will not thus give over , Though I may a while defer it , yet I'll face my Foes once more . Britains Rights I am renewing , Can this give a just offence ? Those that glory in my Ruin , I in time may recompense . For I'll have a stronger Army , and of Ammunition store : I'll have Drums & amp ; Trumpets charming , when as I come on Englands shore . I will give them thundering Battle when I do return again And when roraing Guns do rattle , who dare say that I am slave ? Charge them to the highest Centre , for to make the Papists fly , Like and Fortune I will venture , to reward their Cruelty . My poor Soldiers they was taken and in Droves to Prison sent , This may protestants awaken , to behold Romes black intent : They show not a grain of pity , which does grieve my heart full soar ; For in every Town and City they were hanged at their own door . There they ripped their bellies open , and their bodies burned hard by ; Tell me , is not this a Token of the Acts of Cruelty ? Nay , they cut them into quarters while they reekt in purple gore ; Never was there suchlike Creatures in a Christian Land before . Though poor Souls their Lives were ended , yet , alas ! this would not do , Malice further still extended , for they boiled their Quarters too . All to terrify the Nation with my poor dead mangled men ; While each tender dear Relation needs must be afflicted then . This is now my greatest trouble , for to hear their fatal Doom , I for this will Strokes redouble on the Scarlet Whore of Room ; Who delights in nought but Murder as in truth it does appear , But I'll send her flying further when I bring next Army here . Though this is a dismal Story , of the fallen of my design , Yet I'll come again in Glory if I live till Eighty Nine : With fresh Forces I will rally , scorning thus to be controlled , At the Head of each Battalions Noble great Commanders bold . Though I come with flying Banner to the Land which I belong , I declare upon my Honour , not a Subject will I wrong Of the Protestant Profession , whom I ever did adore , Think upon this dear Expression , Heavens bless you evermore . printed for D. I . 