Perjury Punished with equal Justice ; OR , MILES PRANCE His Sorrowful L amentation for his foul Offences . In heart I grieve , you may believe , was it to do again ; I'ld never agree , to Perjury , nor any such like thing . Tune of , No Ignoramus Juries now , etc A LL you that stands near me , Pray listen now , and hear me , Tho's false I Swore , I never will more , My Friends , you need not fear me . No daring , nor baring With any false declaring : The Pillory's my destiny , [ For my unlawful Swearing . ] Good Fortune now refuse me , If I think they abuse me ; I did confess , could I do less ? My Conscience did accuse me . No daring , nor baring With any false declaring ; The Pillory's my destiny , [ For my unlawful Swearing . ] I'de have you now believe me , There's something still does grieve [ me ] I need not tell , you know full well , My Touch-Stone did deceive me : No daring , nor bearing With any false declaring ; The Pillory's my Destiny , For my unlawful Swearing . When Lords lay in the Tower , Then to my utmost power , The Loyali'st men ; I swore again , That I might them devour : No daring , etc Of this I now am weary , For why I can't be merry , The Thoughts of Hill , torments me still , And so does Green and Berry , No daring , etc . My peace I have confounded , And am in grief surrounded , Their Blood I spilled , and now with guilt My Conscience I have wounded : No daring , etc This being discontented , I bitterly lamented , That hanious crime , but in due time , In heart I have repented : No daring , etc I send my mournful ditty , Through e'ry Town and City , Let me not fail , but now prevail , To gain the Nations pity : No daring , etc My Conscience waxing tender , My self I did surrender , And did not spare for to declare , I was a foul offender , no daring , etc I'll be no ill retainer , For why I am no gainer , From Perjury I will live free , And e'ry Misdemeanour : No daring , nor bearing With any false declaring ; The Pillory's my destiny , for my unlawful Swearing . FINIS . This may be Printed , R . P . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guilt-Spur-Street . Perjury Punished with equal Justice ; OR , MILES PRANCE His Sorrowful L amentation for his foul Offences . In heart I grieve , you may believe , was it to do again ; I'ld never agree , to Perjury , nor any such like thing . Tune of , No Ignoramus Juries now , etc A LL you that stands near me , Pray listen now , and hear me , Tho's false I Swore , I never will more , My Friends , you need not fear me . No daring , nor baring With any false declaring : The Pillory's my destiny , [ For my unlawful Swearing . ] Good Fortune now refuse me , If I think they abuse me ; I did confess , could I do less ? My Conscience did accuse me . No daring , nor baring With any false declaring ; The Pillory's my destiny , [ For my unlawful Swearing . ] I'de have you now believe me , There's something still does grieve [ me ] I need not tell , you know full well , My Touch-Stone did deceive me : No daring , nor bearing With any false declaring ; The Pillory's my Destiny , For my unlawful Swearing . When Lords lay in the Tower , Then to my utmost power , The Loyali'st men ; I swore again , That I might them devour : No daring , etc Of this I now am weary , For why I can't be merry , The Thoughts of Hill , torments me still , And so does Green and Berry , No daring , etc . My peace I have confounded , And am in grief surrounded , Their Blood I spilled , and now with guilt My Conscience I have wounded : No daring , etc This being discontented , I bitterly lamented , That hanious crime , but in due time , In heart I have repented : No daring , etc I send my mournful ditty , Through e'ry Town and City , Let me not fail , but now prevail , To gain the Nations pity : No daring , etc My Conscience waxing tender , My self I did surrender , And did not spare for to declare , I was a foul offender , no daring , etc I'll be no ill retainer , For why I am no gainer , From Perjury I will live free , And e'ry Misdemeanour : No daring , nor bearing With any false declaring ; The Pillory's my destiny , for my unlawful Swearing . FINIS . This may be Printed , R . P . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guilt-Spur-Street . 