Great Britains Delight , OR , A Health to his Royal Highness the Prince of Orange . When as a Missed , or Cloud of Grief Did overspread the Land , order then to our relief , He took this cause in hand . Tune of , The Prince of Orange his Delight . B Rave English boys , now We'll make Papishes bow , And rid all their Jesuits hence ; Then let the Bells' ring , While we merrily sing , For to welcome the Protestant Prince . Let Bonfires burn , The Papists all turn , And their wooden Gods all be pulled down let the Churches all flourish , The Gospel to nourish , With great Joy to the Princes Renown . The Nation he'l clear From all trouble and fear , And drive all our Enemies hence ; We'll stand by his side , To pull down their pride , For he is a brave Protestant Prince . When we were run down , And the Roman did frown , He had of our sorrows a sense , Preparing a Fleet , Our Joys to complete , He is a brave Protestant Prin [ ce . ] He came not to Reign , But our Rights to maintain , And has been at a vast expense , And Heaven does bless His hand with success , For he is a brave Protestant Prince . Then you Irishmen all , In Country and Town , Repent for the time that is past ; May Tyrconnel be taken , And his Laws quite forsaken , And you Roguery be found out at last . But let me advice you The best way I can , As I stand near Related to you ; Your old Coats for to turn , And your Altars to burn , And to hang up your Jesuite Crew . For your Downfall is come , And you shall receive Doom , For we Protestants now do advance ; And our brave Prince and we Will unite and agree For to drive Lewis King out of France . His haughty high words Does but sharpen our Swords , We'll fight in our Nations defence ; F or we would not fear The Great Turk nor Monsieur , While we have a brave Protestant Prince . Let Shoemakers all Pack up Knives and Heel-Awl , To join to and universe sum ; Let's charge , and let's prime , for we hope in Gods time For to give the death's wound unto Rome . But first let the glory And praise be to God , Who hath wrought such a miracle great ; Their Delusions to spoil , And their plots all beguile , Then rejoice both in Church & amp ; in State . And now at the Instrument Of this great Work , Which the like was ner before nor since ; Let's drink his Health round With our knees to the ground , For to welcome this Protestant Prince . And now to conclude This my Protestant song , Pray remember these Verses of mine ; For Popery is pulled down Both in Country and Town . And the Gospel in splendour shall shine . With peace , mirth and plenty Our land will abound , And the Papists they all must go hence ; For search the world round , There will scarcely be found Such another brave Protestant Prince . If any one questions Who made these few lines , This my self if I may you convince : Then let's merry be , And I'll drink unto thee A good Health to this protestant Prince . Then fill up the glass , About let it pass , All our sorrows in Wine we will drown Here is a good Health To that Commonwealth Whose Prince is come lately to Town . London . Printed in the Year 1689. Great Britains Delight , OR , A Health to his Royal Highness the Prince of Orange . When as a Missed , or Cloud of Grief Did overspread the Land , order then to our relief , He took this cause in hand . Tune of , The Prince of Orange his Delight . B Rave English boys , now We'll make Papishes bow , And rid all their Jesuits hence ; Then let the Bells' ring , While we merrily sing , For to welcome the Protestant Prince . Let Bonfires burn , The Papists all turn , And their wooden Gods all be pulled down let the Churches all flourish , The Gospel to nourish , With great Joy to the Princes Renown . The Nation he'l clear From all trouble and fear , And drive all our Enemies hence ; We'll stand by his side , To pull down their pride , For he is a brave Protestant Prince . When we were run down , And the Roman did frown , He had of our sorrows a sense , Preparing a Fleet , Our Joys to complete , He is a brave Protestant Prin [ ce . ] He came not to Reign , But our Rights to maintain , And has been at a vast expense , And Heaven does bless His hand with success , For he is a brave Protestant Prince . Then you Irishmen all , In Country and Town , Repent for the time that is past ; May Tyrconnel be taken , And his Laws quite forsaken , And you Roguery be found out at last . But let me advice you The best way I can , As I stand near Related to you ; Your old Coats for to turn , And your Altars to burn , And to hang up your Jesuite Crew . For your Downfall is come , And you shall receive Doom , For we Protestants now do advance ; And our brave Prince and we Will unite and agree For to drive Lewis King out of France . His haughty high words Does but sharpen our Swords , We'll fight in our Nations defence ; F or we would not fear The Great Turk nor Monsieur , While we have a brave Protestant Prince . Let Shoemakers all Pack up Knives and Heel-Awl , To join to and universe sum ; Let's charge , and let's prime , for we hope in Gods time For to give the death's wound unto Rome . But first let the glory And praise be to God , Who hath wrought such a miracle great ; Their Delusions to spoil , And their plots all beguile , Then rejoice both in Church & amp ; in State . And now at the Instrument Of this great Work , Which the like was ner before nor since ; Let's drink his Health round With our knees to the ground , For to welcome this Protestant Prince . And now to conclude This my Protestant song , Pray remember these Verses of mine ; For Popery is pulled down Both in Country and Town . And the Gospel in splendour shall shine . With peace , mirth and plenty Our land will abound , And the Papists they all must go hence ; For search the world round , There will scarcely be found Such another brave Protestant Prince . If any one questions Who made these few lines , This my self if I may you convince : Then let's merry be , And I'll drink unto thee A good Health to this protestant Prince . Then fill up the glass , About let it pass , All our sorrows in Wine we will drown Here is a good Health To that Commonwealth Whose Prince is come lately to Town . London . Printed in the Year 1689. 