MONMOUTH's Saying In the West of ENGLAND : OR , His last Resolution on his Voyage into Holland . To the Tune of , The Soldiers Departure . N Owe our bloody Fight is over , I poor Monmouth must away , Grey did my designs discover , seeking my Life to betray : Come let us away to Holland , there we shall be all secure , And my Soldiers at my Command , some will follow me I'm sure . If we had but Ammunition , quickly I'de regain the Field , Soon I'de better my Condition , and make all my Foes to yield : I will have a stronger Army , and good Ammunition store , With Trumpets found ( my Boys ) I'll Charm you , thus regain the English Shore . Then aloud my Guns should Rattle , I'll on boldly once again , Appear my self i'th front o'the Battle , make them know Monmouth is not slave : See the hearts of my poor Soldiers , how like Men they endure to die , See their Foes dissect their Quarters , and burn their Bowels cruelly . But when I recruit my Forces , I'll return to Englands Shore , To stop the Papists Evil Courses , I will come to you once more . And bravely drive my Foes before me , till the Conquest I have gained , My Enemies I'll make adore me , when my ends are once obtained . It's reported I am Taken , and disputed several ways , Some say I'm by Friends forsaken , such reports as these they raise : Whoso ever is the vender , in a little time shall see , I'll come in a greater strength and splendour , then shall ever Conquered be . Foreign Princes will assist me , with such Force I'll come again , My Foes shall not dare to resist me , but the Power they serve disdain : Then shall Monmouth in his Glories , to his English Friends appear , And will stifle all such Stories , as are vended every where . They'll see I was not so Degraded , to be taken gathering Peas , Nor in a Cork of Hay upbraided , what strange Stories now are these ! Such Reports are Foes invention , my good Friends for to deceive , But I hope they've more discretion , then such Stories to believe . I'll revive my ancient Honour , then my happy Friends shall see , My Foes shall truckle to my Banner , and repent their Villainy : In a blessed and happy Station , then I'll place my worthy Friend From Popery , likewise free the Nation , this is all your Monmouths end . Dear Countrymen , you know I love you for your Liberties I stand , The losses of your Rights does move [ me ] for to take this Cause in hand : My friends , I hope you'll then assist me when in Pomp once more I come , And fight those that dare resist me , who stand up as Friends to Room . England now is full of Crosses but ever long you all shall see , The Subject's and Nations Losses , shall again redeemed be : Those that have me much Degraded in a little time shall see , Though by Romans I'm upbraided , I'll live to pluck-down popery . Printed for B. J . MONMOUTH's Saying In the West of ENGLAND : OR , His last Resolution on his Voyage into Holland . To the Tune of , The Soldiers Departure . N Owe our bloody Fight is over , I poor Monmouth must away , Grey did my designs discover , seeking my Life to betray : Come let us away to Holland , there we shall be all secure , And my Soldiers at my Command , some will follow me I'm sure . If we had but Ammunition , quickly I'de regain the Field , Soon I'de better my Condition , and make all my Foes to yield : I will have a stronger Army , and good Ammunition store , With Trumpets found ( my Boys ) I'll Charm you , thus regain the English Shore . Then aloud my Guns should Rattle , I'll on boldly once again , Appear my self i'th front o'the Battle , make them know Monmouth is not slave : See the hearts of my poor Soldiers , how like Men they endure to die , See their Foes dissect their Quarters , and burn their Bowels cruelly . But when I recruit my Forces , I'll return to Englands Shore , To stop the Papists Evil Courses , I will come to you once more . And bravely drive my Foes before me , till the Conquest I have gained , My Enemies I'll make adore me , when my ends are once obtained . It's reported I am Taken , and disputed several ways , Some say I'm by Friends forsaken , such reports as these they raise : Whoso ever is the vender , in a little time shall see , I'll come in a greater strength and splendour , then shall ever Conquered be . Foreign Princes will assist me , with such Force I'll come again , My Foes shall not dare to resist me , but the Power they serve disdain : Then shall Monmouth in his Glories , to his English Friends appear , And will stifle all such Stories , as are vended every where . They'll see I was not so Degraded , to be taken gathering Peas , Nor in a Cork of Hay upbraided , what strange Stories now are these ! Such Reports are Foes invention , my good Friends for to deceive , But I hope they've more discretion , then such Stories to believe . I'll revive my ancient Honour , then my happy Friends shall see , My Foes shall truckle to my Banner , and repent their Villainy : In a blessed and happy Station , then I'll place my worthy Friend From Popery , likewise free the Nation , this is all your Monmouths end . Dear Countrymen , you know I love you for your Liberties I stand , The losses of your Rights does move [ me ] for to take this Cause in hand : My friends , I hope you'll then assist me when in Pomp once more I come , And fight those that dare resist me , who stand up as Friends to Room . England now is full of Crosses but ever long you all shall see , The Subject's and Nations Losses , shall again redeemed be : Those that have me much Degraded in a little time shall see , Though by Romans I'm upbraided , I'll live to pluck-down popery . Printed for B. J. 