THE LATE Duke of Monmouth's Lamentation . The Tune of , On the Bank of a River , Or ; Now now the Fights done . TO He World is ungrateful the People deceitful , Ambition and Pride our first Parents did choke it leads to high places as Slippery as Glasses , Their gilded pretences all vanish like smoke Their fatal delusion Brought me to confusion I fallen by those Powers I did justly provoke . Those Men of Sedition that nursed my Ambition And soothed up my Fancy with hope's of a Crown their fates are depending and must have and Ending , It's they ruined me and my former renown Seducers of Reason Made me commit Treason For which on the Block I lay my head down . My Grief I discover For those I brought over , And those in this Land I , seduced to the since , true Churchmen denied me the Gentry defied me , With none but the Factious I favour did win this sorrowful sentence brings me to Repentance Unfortunate Monmouth this Act to begin . The Second Part , To the same Tune . TO Hus my Allegiance was all disobedience the King of the West in those Parts they me call , Each Village and City was spoiled without Pity , The Kings better Subject's I brought into Thrall : But now such vile doing hath caused my ruin My Pride and Ambition must now have a Fallen . The popular Babble and noise of the Rabble , It pleased me at first and did Nourish the Vice 'Twas Pride and Vain-Glory did furnish the Story And gave to my after proceedings the Rise while that I did aspire to fly higher and higher , Like the generous Bird I was snared in a trice . All did me admire , nought I could require , But the Royal Bounty did freely allow was of Royal standing had all at commanding And men of the highest Rank to me did bow but Iv'e taken ill measures and lost all those Treasures Poor Monmouth's thy Case is altered now . Ambition can't borrow One day , ever to morrow Poor Monmouth must lie in the silent dark Grave : let his sad conclusion be Traitors Confusion And dash them to Pieces as Rocks do the Waves . take warning you Traitors and all you Crown Haitors Your cunning designs your Heads shall not save This may be printed July 18. 1685. R.L.S. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . THE LATE Duke of Monmouth's Lamentation . The Tune of , On the Bank of a River , Or ; Now now the Fights done . TO He World is ungrateful the People deceitful , Ambition and Pride our first Parents did choke it leads to high places as Slippery as Glasses , Their gilded pretences all vanish like smoke Their fatal delusion Brought me to confusion I fallen by those Powers I did justly provoke . Those Men of Sedition that nursed my Ambition And soothed up my Fancy with hope's of a Crown their fates are depending and must have and Ending , It's they ruined me and my former renown Seducers of Reason Made me commit Treason For which on the Block I lay my head down . My Grief I discover For those I brought over , And those in this Land I , seduced to the since , true Churchmen denied me the Gentry defied me , With none but the Factious I favour did win this sorrowful sentence brings me to Repentance Unfortunate Monmouth this Act to begin . The Second Part , To the same Tune . TO Hus my Allegiance was all disobedience the King of the West in those Parts they me call , Each Village and City was spoiled without Pity , The Kings better Subject's I brought into Thrall : But now such vile doing hath caused my ruin My Pride and Ambition must now have a Fallen . The popular Babble and noise of the Rabble , It pleased me at first and did Nourish the Vice 'Twas Pride and Vain-Glory did furnish the Story And gave to my after proceedings the Rise while that I did aspire to fly higher and higher , Like the generous Bird I was snared in a trice . All did me admire , nought I could require , But the Royal Bounty did freely allow was of Royal standing had all at commanding And men of the highest Rank to me did bow but Iv'e taken ill measures and lost all those Treasures Poor Monmouth's thy Case is altered now . Ambition can't borrow One day , ever to morrow Poor Monmouth must lie in the silent dark Grave : let his sad conclusion be Traitors Confusion And dash them to Pieces as Rocks do the Waves . take warning you Traitors and all you Crown Haitors Your cunning designs your Heads shall not save This may be printed July 18. 1685. R.L.S. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 