King JAMESES Royal VICTORY . Giving and Account of the Great Conquest His Gracious Majesty hath happily gained over the Rebels ; Also the taking and Execution of the late Duke of Monmouth , who was Beheaded on Tower-Hill , on Wednesday the 15th of this Instant July , 1685. To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . A Las , alas , I am undone , my Men are gone and fled , Great James the Royal Victory wone , now I must lose my Head : Rebellion is a Cursed thing , and tumbles Traitors down , Therefore be faithful to the King , and Loyal to the Crown . Ambition was my overthrow , my hope's are banished quite , My pleasure now is turned to woe , My day is turned to night : And fortune that does often smile , upon me now does frown , Because I did my self beguile , By falseness to the Crown . O hateful Pride to aim so high , and make my fallen so great , By losing of the Victory , my Pride it did abate . I by Rebellion sought to gain both Honour and Renown , But all my struggling was in vain , against the King and Crown . My hapless fate I now lament , although it is too late , It breeds my cruel discontent , to think on rigid fate : For satisfaction for my Crime , my life I must lay down , For there is no real King of Lyme , but him that wears the Crown . But Oh that I had been so wise , as certainly to know , My friends from secret Enemies , who sought my overthrow : And puffed me up with promise great , of Honour and Renown , But now I find it was a Cheat , King James must wear the Crown . Now must I loose my murmuring breath , my death draws nigh at hand , Because I did my Sword Unsheath against the King o'th Land : Whose mercies all men do applaud , in City and in Town , My Treachery is known abroad , against the King and Crown . And thus James Scot did make his moan , until his dying day , While our blessed King sits on his Throne , proud Rebels to dismay : And by the justness of his cause , will pull Rebellion down , For he that disobeys the Laws , Rebels against the Crown . The fifteenth of July he whom from his Army fled , On Tower-Hill for Treachery , did certain lose his Head : And in the sighed of many men , his Life he did lay down , And now he'l never Rebel again against the King or Crown . Then Loyal Subject's bravely sing , since his Great Majesty , Who is our gracious Royal King , hath gained the Victory : And hath dispersed the daring for , that sought to gain Renown , For he's the only Prince we know that ought to wear the Crown . Printed for Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . King JAMESES Royal VICTORY . Giving and Account of the Great Conquest His Gracious Majesty hath happily gained over the Rebels ; Also the taking and Execution of the late Duke of Monmouth , who was Beheaded on Tower-Hill , on Wednesday the 15th of this Instant July , 1685. To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . A Las , alas , I am undone , my Men are gone and fled , Great James the Royal Victory wone , now I must lose my Head : Rebellion is a Cursed thing , and tumbles Traitors down , Therefore be faithful to the King , and Loyal to the Crown . Ambition was my overthrow , my hope's are banished quite , My pleasure now is turned to woe , My day is turned to night : And fortune that does often smile , upon me now does frown , Because I did my self beguile , By falseness to the Crown . O hateful Pride to aim so high , and make my fallen so great , By losing of the Victory , my Pride it did abate . I by Rebellion sought to gain both Honour and Renown , But all my struggling was in vain , against the King and Crown . My hapless fate I now lament , although it is too late , It breeds my cruel discontent , to think on rigid fate : For satisfaction for my Crime , my life I must lay down , For there is no real King of Lyme , but him that wears the Crown . But Oh that I had been so wise , as certainly to know , My friends from secret Enemies , who sought my overthrow : And puffed me up with promise great , of Honour and Renown , But now I find it was a Cheat , King James must wear the Crown . Now must I loose my murmuring breath , my death draws nigh at hand , Because I did my Sword Unsheath against the King o'th Land : Whose mercies all men do applaud , in City and in Town , My Treachery is known abroad , against the King and Crown . And thus James Scot did make his moan , until his dying day , While our blessed King sits on his Throne , proud Rebels to dismay : And by the justness of his cause , will pull Rebellion down , For he that disobeys the Laws , Rebels against the Crown . The fifteenth of July he whom from his Army fled , On Tower-Hill for Treachery , did certain lose his Head : And in the sighed of many men , his Life he did lay down , And now he'l never Rebel again against the King or Crown . Then Loyal Subject's bravely sing , since his Great Majesty , Who is our gracious Royal King , hath gained the Victory : And hath dispersed the daring for , that sought to gain Renown , For he's the only Prince we know that ought to wear the Crown . Printed for Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 