The Rebels Totally Routed : OR THE Loyal Subject's Satisfaction in the Taking of the late D. of Monmouth , and the Lord GREY . Some Rebels dead , and others fled , quite in Disorder put ; They make their Moan , they're Overthrown , and Routed Horse and Foot . To the Tune of , Hark I hear the Cannons Roar . N Owe our work is almost done , See the Rebels how they run , Crying out they are undone , [ Since ] they were seized and flouted ; Hanging down their Pensive Ears , Almost Drowned in their Tears , [ And ] haunted still with sl [ avi ] sh Fears , so now Rebellion's Routed . The Noble Lord of Feversham , With his Warlike Valiant Train , And worthy Oh [ Je ] thrope by Name , stout hearts that never doubted ; By Force of Arms have Foot and Horse , To Chase them in to Weeping Cross , And there fit down and count their Loss , now , now the Rebels Routed . The Rebels run from place to place , But still we did pursue the Chase , At length we came up Face to Face , and then for joy we Shouted ; Which put the Rebels to a Fright , To see us shine in Armour bright , Like Champions then we fell to fight , and now Rebellion's Routed . We drew up all in Battle-'rray , Our Pelting Cannons they did play , We never feared to win the day , when once we went about it ; We lent them in whole showers of Led , Which struck some hundred Rebels dead , The rest took their heels and fled , now , now Rebellions Routed . Brave Soldiers all both just and true , We'll venture Life and Fortune too , To vanquish their Rebellious Crew , who in the West have Scouted ; Now they are in a Sea of Woe , And know not whither for to go , We proved their final overthrow , now , now Rebellion's Routed . Now James Scot at last is took , And for his just reward must look , Because he Loyalty forsook , and with the Rebels scouted , And for his Treachery must pay , The which there's none that can gainsay , And since King JAMES hath wone the day , Rebellion now is routed . When this joyful News was known , Of their being Overthrown , How the Factious sighs and groan , with Discontent they Glouted ; But Loyal Souls was glad to hear , How bravely we the Coast did clear , And put the Kingdom out of fear , now , now Rebellion's Routed . For joy we vanquished their design , Our Bonfires did blaze and shine , While we Caroused in Bowls of wine , true hearts that stood about it ; In Honour of these Champions brave , That did themselves so well behave , And did the Land from Ruin save , now , now Rebellion's Routed . Now nothing can our Peace annoy , While we the Rebels do destroy , The Bells' do loudly Ring for Joy , though many grieved and pouted ; Let Heavens Blessings never cease , To Crown Great James with Joy and Peace And Loyal Subject's still increase , now , now Rebellion's Routed . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Ange [ l ] in Guiltspur-Street . The Rebels Totally Routed : OR THE Loyal Subject's Satisfaction in the Taking of the late D. of Monmouth , and the Lord GREY . Some Rebels dead , and others fled , quite in Disorder put ; They make their Moan , they're Overthrown , and Routed Horse and Foot . To the Tune of , Hark I hear the Cannons Roar . N Owe our work is almost done , See the Rebels how they run , Crying out they are undone , [ Since ] they were seized and flouted ; Hanging down their Pensive Ears , Almost Drowned in their Tears , [ And ] haunted still with sl [ avi ] sh Fears , so now Rebellion's Routed . The Noble Lord of Feversham , With his Warlike Valiant Train , And worthy Oh [ Je ] thrope by Name , stout hearts that never doubted ; By Force of Arms have Foot and Horse , To Chase them in to Weeping Cross , And there fit down and count their Loss , now , now the Rebels Routed . The Rebels run from place to place , But still we did pursue the Chase , At length we came up Face to Face , and then for joy we Shouted ; Which put the Rebels to a Fright , To see us shine in Armour bright , Like Champions then we fell to fight , and now Rebellion's Routed . We drew up all in Battle-'rray , Our Pelting Cannons they did play , We never feared to win the day , when once we went about it ; We lent them in whole showers of Led , Which struck some hundred Rebels dead , The rest took their heels and fled , now , now Rebellions Routed . Brave Soldiers all both just and true , We'll venture Life and Fortune too , To vanquish their Rebellious Crew , who in the West have Scouted ; Now they are in a Sea of Woe , And know not whither for to go , We proved their final overthrow , now , now Rebellion's Routed . Now James Scot at last is took , And for his just reward must look , Because he Loyalty forsook , and with the Rebels scouted , And for his Treachery must pay , The which there's none that can gainsay , And since King JAMES hath wone the day , Rebellion now is routed . When this joyful News was known , Of their being Overthrown , How the Factious sighs and groan , with Discontent they Glouted ; But Loyal Souls was glad to hear , How bravely we the Coast did clear , And put the Kingdom out of fear , now , now Rebellion's Routed . For joy we vanquished their design , Our Bonfires did blaze and shine , While we Caroused in Bowls of wine , true hearts that stood about it ; In Honour of these Champions brave , That did themselves so well behave , And did the Land from Ruin save , now , now Rebellion's Routed . Now nothing can our Peace annoy , While we the Rebels do destroy , The Bells' do loudly Ring for Joy , though many grieved and pouted ; Let Heavens Blessings never cease , To Crown Great James with Joy and Peace And Loyal Subject's still increase , now , now Rebellion's Routed . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Ange [ l ] in Guiltspur-Street . 