The Western-TRIUMPH : OR , The ROYAL PROGRESS of Our Gracious King James the II into the West of England . Our Gracious King , where ever he came , was entertained with joy : His presence did much comfort bring , all cries Vive Le Roy . Tune of , King James ' s Jig . This may be printed . R.P. C Ome listen awhile to the Lines which I bring , Of the Royal Progress of James our good King , Which unto the West he was pleased to take , And of the great Mirth that his Subject's did make ; Through e'ry City and Town where he came , Attended with Nobles and Persons of Fame : Rejoicing they pray for the King and his Train , God send him a long and a prosperous Reign . Then bidding the Castle of Windsor adieu , And coming to Portsmouth in order to view The Fortifications of that Royal Fort , And likewise as we have by perfect report , He Touched for the Evil , so tender was he , Of his Loving Subject's of e'ry degree : While Thousands rejoicing , they cried our again , God send him a long and a prosperous Reign . O then in his Yatch , our Royal Great James , Did pass over Neptune is curled Silver Streams ; At Bath in short time , our Great Prince did arrive , Where every Subject in person did strive , To pay their Allegiance with Loyal Respect , And pray that the Heavens may always protect Our Mighty Great Monarch and his Princely Train , In Peace , with a flourishing prosperous Reign . From thence to the City of Glouster he came , Where all the Greet Persons their joys did proclaim , The more their magnanimous Triumph to show , Their Conduits with plenty of Wine then did flow ; Their Caps up they fling , while their Knees on the ground King James is good Healthy they Drank merrily round : With loud Acclamations all struck in a strain , God send him a long and a prosperous Reign . To Worcester then our Prince went with speed , Where once many brave Loyal Soldiers did bleed , With Lords , Dukes and Earls , such Men of Renown , Which Fought for the King for maintaining the Crown : When there they beheld him , they then did rejoice , And all with a noble , unanimous Voice , Crying God bless great James and his Princely train , And send him a long and a prosperous Reign . To Ludlow and Shrewsbury then he did ride , Nay Whitchurch and Chester , to Newport [ beside , ] To Litchfield and Boscobel-House , then also To the Royal-Oak he was pleased to go , To see the Remains of the Prosperous Tree , The Refuge of Charles of late blessed Memory , Who Heaven in mercy was pleased to ordain , In his Father's Kingdom and Throne for to Reign . The City of Coventry then in short space , Our Prince with his presence was pleased to grace , The Mayor with his Aldermen meeting the King , The Town was in Triumph , while Bells' they did ring : All Hearts were transported with freedom and joy , The Music they made it was Vive Le Roy , To drink his good Health there was none would refrain , But prayed for his long and most prosperous Reign . To Banbury then our Sovereign came , And after to Oxford that City of Fame , Who was not behind hand with none of the rest , Their joy and their triumph cannot be expressed , No Prince ever met with such Subject's before , Then our Great Monarch whom all do adore : To drink his good Health , there's none will refrain , To pray for his long and most prosperous Reign . At length to the City of Bristow also , Our King with his Queen and his Nobles did go , Where hundreds and thousands together did throng , To see in what glory they passed along , The greatest of Triumph attended the day , No City in England more Loyal than they , All fling their Caps , and did cry our amain , God send them a long and a prosperous Reign . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The Western-TRIUMPH : OR , The ROYAL PROGRESS of Our Gracious King James the II into the West of England . Our Gracious King , where ever he came , was entertained with joy : His presence did much comfort bring , all cries Vive Le Roy . Tune of , King James ' s Jig . This may be printed . R.P. C Ome listen awhile to the Lines which I bring , Of the Royal Progress of James our good King , Which unto the West he was pleased to take , And of the great Mirth that his Subject's did make ; Through e'ry City and Town where he came , Attended with Nobles and Persons of Fame : Rejoicing they pray for the King and his Train , God send him a long and a prosperous Reign . Then bidding the Castle of Windsor adieu , And coming to Portsmouth in order to view The Fortifications of that Royal Fort , And likewise as we have by perfect report , He Touched for the Evil , so tender was he , Of his Loving Subject's of e'ry degree : While Thousands rejoicing , they cried our again , God send him a long and a prosperous Reign . O then in his Yatch , our Royal Great James , Did pass over Neptune is curled Silver Streams ; At Bath in short time , our Great Prince did arrive , Where every Subject in person did strive , To pay their Allegiance with Loyal Respect , And pray that the Heavens may always protect Our Mighty Great Monarch and his Princely Train , In Peace , with a flourishing prosperous Reign . From thence to the City of Glouster he came , Where all the Greet Persons their joys did proclaim , The more their magnanimous Triumph to show , Their Conduits with plenty of Wine then did flow ; Their Caps up they fling , while their Knees on the ground King James is good Healthy they Drank merrily round : With loud Acclamations all struck in a strain , God send him a long and a prosperous Reign . To Worcester then our Prince went with speed , Where once many brave Loyal Soldiers did bleed , With Lords , Dukes and Earls , such Men of Renown , Which Fought for the King for maintaining the Crown : When there they beheld him , they then did rejoice , And all with a noble , unanimous Voice , Crying God bless great James and his Princely train , And send him a long and a prosperous Reign . To Ludlow and Shrewsbury then he did ride , Nay Whitchurch and Chester , to Newport [ beside , ] To Litchfield and Boscobel-House , then also To the Royal-Oak he was pleased to go , To see the Remains of the Prosperous Tree , The Refuge of Charles of late blessed Memory , Who Heaven in mercy was pleased to ordain , In his Father's Kingdom and Throne for to Reign . The City of Coventry then in short space , Our Prince with his presence was pleased to grace , The Mayor with his Aldermen meeting the King , The Town was in Triumph , while Bells' they did ring : All Hearts were transported with freedom and joy , The Music they made it was Vive Le Roy , To drink his good Health there was none would refrain , But prayed for his long and most prosperous Reign . To Banbury then our Sovereign came , And after to Oxford that City of Fame , Who was not behind hand with none of the rest , Their joy and their triumph cannot be expressed , No Prince ever met with such Subject's before , Then our Great Monarch whom all do adore : To drink his good Health , there's none will refrain , To pray for his long and most prosperous Reign . At length to the City of Bristow also , Our King with his Queen and his Nobles did go , Where hundreds and thousands together did throng , To see in what glory they passed along , The greatest of Triumph attended the day , No City in England more Loyal than they , All fling their Caps , and did cry our amain , God send them a long and a prosperous Reign . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 