ENGLANDS Ecstasy : OR , The Nations Joy for the Happy Coronation of King William , and His Royal Consort Queen Marry Tune of , Grim King of the Ghost , etc . Licensed according to Order . H Ark how the Huzza's go round in this happy joyful day ; The Royal blessed pair are Crowned , constituted both in Severaign Sway : See , see how the Nation is pleased , our Rights now again are our own The Protestant Church is raised , and Popery now must down . The King like the Sun does shine amid the bright dazlin Train ; His glorys are so divine , [ each grace does his ] worth proclaim , How happy our Nation will be , now Jove is possessed of the Crown , From Tyranny now we are free , and Popery must go down . Queen Marry , the Nations delight , the flower of our English Faith , Her looks are divinely bright , each grace of a Queen she hath : So nobly and nimbly she moves beneath the blessed weight of her Crown . The Protestant people she loves and Popery now must down . TO He Lords and the Ladies attend , like Stars on the Sun and Moon ; Each Meteor his light does extend , to set forth our glorious Noon ; While Papists with envy behold King William confirmed in his Throne , Who has their designs controlled , and plucked all their Popery down . Now England advance thy head , and see thou art greatly blessed ; Thy foes do thy Justice dread ; thy Rights are all repossest . Brave Prince , to redeem all our land , and frighten the priests from the Throne 'Twas by thy dread warlike hand vile popery was plucked down . No more shall the priests invade our Liberties or our Laws ; Their Agents are all betrayed , we've ruined the popish cause : We'll be not by Babylon ruled , no Perkin shall come to the Crown ; The Nation no more will be fooled , for popery must go down . God bless the great William our King , long happily may he Reign , His foes to subjection bring , and peace through the land maintain , That all the whole Nation may be as happy as ever it was known , From Romes evil strategems free , now popery is plucked down . God bless Royal Marry our Queen , may she ever fruitful prove ; All Blessings attend her Reign , her Prince and her peoples love May Heaven increase and complete , the glory and joy of the Crown ; May Jesuits fallen at her feet ; thus may she tread popery down . Printed for J. Bissel at the Hospital-Gat [ e ] in West-smithfield . ENGLANDS Ecstasy : OR , The Nations Joy for the Happy Coronation of King William , and His Royal Consort Queen Marry Tune of , Grim King of the Ghost , etc . Licensed according to Order . H Ark how the Huzza's go round in this happy joyful day ; The Royal blessed pair are Crowned , constituted both in Severaign Sway : See , see how the Nation is pleased , our Rights now again are our own The Protestant Church is raised , and Popery now must down . The King like the Sun does shine amid the bright dazlin Train ; His glorys are so divine , [ each grace does his ] worth proclaim , How happy our Nation will be , now Jove is possessed of the Crown , From Tyranny now we are free , and Popery must go down . Queen Marry , the Nations delight , the flower of our English Faith , Her looks are divinely bright , each grace of a Queen she hath : So nobly and nimbly she moves beneath the blessed weight of her Crown . The Protestant people she loves and Popery now must down . TO He Lords and the Ladies attend , like Stars on the Sun and Moon ; Each Meteor his light does extend , to set forth our glorious Noon ; While Papists with envy behold King William confirmed in his Throne , Who has their designs controlled , and plucked all their Popery down . Now England advance thy head , and see thou art greatly blessed ; Thy foes do thy Justice dread ; thy Rights are all repossest . Brave Prince , to redeem all our land , and frighten the priests from the Throne 'Twas by thy dread warlike hand vile popery was plucked down . No more shall the priests invade our Liberties or our Laws ; Their Agents are all betrayed , we've ruined the popish cause : We'll be not by Babylon ruled , no Perkin shall come to the Crown ; The Nation no more will be fooled , for popery must go down . God bless the great William our King , long happily may he Reign , His foes to subjection bring , and peace through the land maintain , That all the whole Nation may be as happy as ever it was known , From Romes evil strategems free , now popery is plucked down . God bless Royal Marry our Queen , may she ever fruitful prove ; All Blessings attend her Reign , her Prince and her peoples love May Heaven increase and complete , the glory and joy of the Crown ; May Jesuits fallen at her feet ; thus may she tread popery down . Printed for J. Bissel at the Hospital-Gat [ e ] in West-smithfield . 