ENGLAND's Joyful Welcome TO THE KING , Upon His Return to White-Hall , on the 16 th . of December , 1688. after his with - drawing himself , and 6 Days Absence . Or , The Loyal Subject's Delight . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes flowing , etc N Owe , now let's Rejoice , and let England be glad , Since that we do hope there's no cause to be sad : The King to his People returned is again , And may he live happy , and prosperously Reign : Kind Heaven contrived it , no doubt , for our Peace , That all our Contentions for ever may cease ; That Flatterers from his true Friends may be known , And those be esteem [ ' ] worser that supported the Crown . What joy did surprise us when first we had News , The King to come back to us did not refuse ; Ay , each Loyal heart beatrice a March to's return , Whose surprising absence they often did Mourn : Long , long may he Live , each good Protestant Sing , Though all Evil Counsellors mount in a String : The Roads as he passed all Crowded they were , And each one did strive to Great James to get near . To Welcome him Home to his Palace of State , And pity the Hardship he sustained of late : Upon his Retirement , and with loud Huzza's , Still Welcomed our Monarch where ever he did pass With Royal Attendance he made his Advance , On purpose the Crowds met , and not as by chance ; Each glad was to see him returning again , And could not from loud Acclamation refrain , But most of all London , that Renowned City , At once showed her Gladness , and likewise her Pity ; For no sooner Fame brought the News to her Gates , But joyful Expectants had filled the Streets ; And as the Coach-Royal passed with loud Acclaim , Mingled with Sighs , they did Welcome the same : By one they their Joy for his safety express , By to'ther their Sorrow for his late Distress . The Bells' too they could not this good News conceal , But Welcomed him in with a Merry Appeal : To Mournful White-Hall he did scarcely appear , But Sadness flew thence that had sat brooding there : The Gates so late closed , to our Monarch gave place , While he restored joy to each sorrowful face ; And thither the Nobles resorted amain , To fill up the Room of his scattered Train . With true Loyal hearts for to Welcome him home , So may our Divisions to Settlement come ; Our Troubles all cease , and the Nation be freed Of those that would Discord among us still breed ; While the King and People in Love they do meet , And right understanding does make him more Great ; That we as a Providence , ever may own , The Discovery that caused his return to the Throne . The Prospect of War that did dreadful appear , We now are in hope's there's no cause for to fear ; But that without Bloodshed things may be secure , And we with Priests Councils be troubled no more : So Law and Religion may flourish amain , And Plenty and Peace grow up under his Reign ; Our Swords into Plough-shears , to Pruning-hooks Spears We wish may be turned , and still banish our Fears . But this , to a Parliament we must submit , And with the great Nations Wise Council may Fit , So to heal all our Grievances , that none Complain , But Protestants all may assured remain Of what by Unbiased Men shall be thought Just , In Religion , Law , Property , never to be Crossed : And now to conclude , let us heartily Sing , Blessed Heaven be thanked for the Return of the King . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms , within Aldgate . ENGLAND's Joyful Welcome TO THE KING , Upon His Return to White-Hall , on the 16 th . of December , 1688. after his with - drawing himself , and 6 Days Absence . Or , The Loyal Subject's Delight . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes flowing , etc N Owe , now let's Rejoice , and let England be glad , Since that we do hope there's no cause to be sad : The King to his People returned is again , And may he live happy , and prosperously Reign : Kind Heaven contrived it , no doubt , for our Peace , That all our Contentions for ever may cease ; That Flatterers from his true Friends may be known , And those be esteem [ ' ] worser that supported the Crown . What joy did surprise us when first we had News , The King to come back to us did not refuse ; Ay , each Loyal heart beatrice a March to's return , Whose surprising absence they often did Mourn : Long , long may he Live , each good Protestant Sing , Though all Evil Counsellors mount in a String : The Roads as he passed all Crowded they were , And each one did strive to Great James to get near . To Welcome him Home to his Palace of State , And pity the Hardship he sustained of late : Upon his Retirement , and with loud Huzza's , Still Welcomed our Monarch where ever he did pass With Royal Attendance he made his Advance , On purpose the Crowds met , and not as by chance ; Each glad was to see him returning again , And could not from loud Acclamation refrain , But most of all London , that Renowned City , At once showed her Gladness , and likewise her Pity ; For no sooner Fame brought the News to her Gates , But joyful Expectants had filled the Streets ; And as the Coach-Royal passed with loud Acclaim , Mingled with Sighs , they did Welcome the same : By one they their Joy for his safety express , By to'ther their Sorrow for his late Distress . The Bells' too they could not this good News conceal , But Welcomed him in with a Merry Appeal : To Mournful White-Hall he did scarcely appear , But Sadness flew thence that had sat brooding there : The Gates so late closed , to our Monarch gave place , While he restored joy to each sorrowful face ; And thither the Nobles resorted amain , To fill up the Room of his scattered Train . With true Loyal hearts for to Welcome him home , So may our Divisions to Settlement come ; Our Troubles all cease , and the Nation be freed Of those that would Discord among us still breed ; While the King and People in Love they do meet , And right understanding does make him more Great ; That we as a Providence , ever may own , The Discovery that caused his return to the Throne . The Prospect of War that did dreadful appear , We now are in hope's there's no cause for to fear ; But that without Bloodshed things may be secure , And we with Priests Councils be troubled no more : So Law and Religion may flourish amain , And Plenty and Peace grow up under his Reign ; Our Swords into Plough-shears , to Pruning-hooks Spears We wish may be turned , and still banish our Fears . But this , to a Parliament we must submit , And with the great Nations Wise Council may Fit , So to heal all our Grievances , that none Complain , But Protestants all may assured remain Of what by Unbiased Men shall be thought Just , In Religion , Law , Property , never to be Crossed : And now to conclude , let us heartily Sing , Blessed Heaven be thanked for the Return of the King . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms , within Aldgate . 