The Prince of ORANGE Welcome to LONDON . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . TO He Prince Van Orange he is come to this Land , Who does in defiance of Popery stand : He does not desire Supreme for to Reign , But our Laws and Liberties here to maintain . Which some evil Persons did strive to Invade , And we into Bondage might have been betrayed ; We see all their dealings , which troubled us soar , The Friars and Jesuits daily came over . In City and Town they did Maß-houses built , Which was with poor ignorant Proselytes filled ; The Proverb of old is made true in this case , We see that and ill Weed will flourish apace . They still are inventing and forging of Lies , Against out Bible and Clergy likewise ; In hope's they might suddenly be overthrown , And then they concluded the Game was their own . The Bishops away to the Tower was sent As stout and as cheerful as martyrs they went ; Not fearing what ever might fallen to their doom , They scorn to submit to the Clergy of Rome . Now while the true Church thus did tottering stand , It was a great grief to most Men in this Land : But while we with sorrowful sighings did grieve , Each Friar and Jesuits laughed in their Sleeve . And Old Father Peters was one of the Train , Who did for a while in his Roguery Reign ; But Fortune was pleased to send him a Frown , And from his high Honour to tumble him down . Now seeing himself in this sorrowful case , He thought it no boot to remain in this place ; And therefore his Breeches with Guinnies he lined . In order for running some shelter to find . Now while he was taking this dangerous flight , He prayed to Saint Francis and Bridget all night ; But yet notwithstanding his Religious Prayer , He was taken napping as Moss catch this Mare . There is many more as we well understand , Whishes that they were safe out of the Land ; They rather leave Brittain , and fly to the Pope , Than here to take part of the Hatchet and Rope . And now to return to the Prince Van Orange , Whose cost , care and Conduct , has wrought this great change This Nation from the Thraldom I hope he'l set fee , And then there will none be more happy than we . And now let us drink a good Health to the Mitre , And may that Church flourish , though enemies spite he [ r ] Next Health to that Seven that stood by our Cause , As stout as our Martyrs , as just as our Laws . God bless all the Nobles , Religious and Just , Who always was faithful and true to their Trust : I hope they will setile this Nation again , That we may never have any cause to complain . And when a Free Parliament shall Regulate And Compose our Fractions in matters of State , The Joys of this Nation again to restore , The both King and People may flourish once more . FINIS . Printed for G. J. 1688The Prince of ORANGE Welcome to LONDON . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . TO He Prince Van Orange he is come to this Land , Who does in defiance of Popery stand : He does not desire Supreme for to Reign , But our Laws and Liberties here to maintain . Which some evil Persons did strive to Invade , And we into Bondage might have been betrayed ; We see all their dealings , which troubled us soar , The Friars and Jesuits daily came over . In City and Town they did Maß-houses built , Which was with poor ignorant Proselytes filled ; The Proverb of old is made true in this case , We see that and ill Weed will flourish apace . They still are inventing and forging of Lies , Against out Bible and Clergy likewise ; In hope's they might suddenly be overthrown , And then they concluded the Game was their own . The Bishops away to the Tower was sent As stout and as cheerful as martyrs they went ; Not fearing what ever might fallen to their doom , They scorn to submit to the Clergy of Rome . Now while the true Church thus did tottering stand , It was a great grief to most Men in this Land : But while we with sorrowful sighings did grieve , Each Friar and Jesuits laughed in their Sleeve . And Old Father Peters was one of the Train , Who did for a while in his Roguery Reign ; But Fortune was pleased to send him a Frown , And from his high Honour to tumble him down . Now seeing himself in this sorrowful case , He thought it no boot to remain in this place ; And therefore his Breeches with Guinnies he lined . In order for running some shelter to find . Now while he was taking this dangerous flight , He prayed to Saint Francis and Bridget all night ; But yet notwithstanding his Religious Prayer , He was taken napping as Moss catch this Mare . There is many more as we well understand , Whishes that they were safe out of the Land ; They rather leave Brittain , and fly to the Pope , Than here to take part of the Hatchet and Rope . And now to return to the Prince Van Orange , Whose cost , care and Conduct , has wrought this great change This Nation from the Thraldom I hope he'l set fee , And then there will none be more happy than we . And now let us drink a good Health to the Mitre , And may that Church flourish , though enemies spite he [ r ] Next Health to that Seven that stood by our Cause , As stout as our Martyrs , as just as our Laws . God bless all the Nobles , Religious and Just , Who always was faithful and true to their Trust : I hope they will setile this Nation again , That we may never have any cause to complain . And when a Free Parliament shall Regulate And Compose our Fractions in matters of State , The Joys of this Nation again to restore , The both King and People may flourish once more . FINIS . Printed for G. J. 1688 