THE Loyal Subject's Happy Choice : OR , Englands Happiness in a Protestant King and a Free Parliament . To the Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . L Et truehearted English-men freely Rejoice , To think they have made such a Fortunate Choice Of Parliament-men , who Assemble this Day , The Rights of the Church and the Crown to display : To Rescue our Laws and our Liberties too , From such as the Nation do seek to undo : Let all Loyal Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . Let Murmurers cease any more to complain , And highminded Papists lay by their Disdain ; For all their sly Projects we care not a pin , Since Englands true Honour this Day does begin ; And the Twenty'th of March we for ever will keep , As the Day that Great-Brittain awoke from her sleep : Then let all true Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . The true Church of England may lift up her Head , Since in her own Bosom this Senate was bred ; Whose worthy brave Members are taught to maintain The Rights of their Mother , against Schismatics vain : No Commonwealth-broachers shall longer prevail , Away with the Rump and her Factious Tail : And let all true Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . Nor need the Dissenters to live at less ease , Since they may their Liberty have as they please ; Provided they keep but the Peace of the Realm , And render due Homage to those at the Helm : All People from highest to lowest Degree , Henceforward may happily live and be Free : Then let all true Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . No Bishops , no King , is a Proverb most true , And he that would part they is worse than a Jew ; And they are no better than Spiritual Thieves , Who threaten to pull off the Bishops Lawn Sleeves But both Lords and Commons their Cause to assert , Against all Fanatics who have been so pert : Then let all true Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . This Parliament also will stand by the King , In Wars and in Peace , and in every thing ; With their Lives and Estates they will freely oppose The French and the Irish , and all other Foes : When the Rebels are Conquered , then over to France , Our Army will led Monsieur Lewis a Dance , Which will give all English-men hearty content , To have such a King and a Free Parliament . The French being Conquered , and all things in Peace , Our Nation will thrive , and our Trading increase ; Then Coin will be plenty , both Silver and Gold , The want of which thing makes a Young Man look Old Such Plenty of Coin will in England be seen , As these many hundreds of years has not been : These blessings will follow by the mutual consent Of such a good King and a Free Parliament . Then rouse up Great - B rittain and slumber no more ; For thee many Fortune's are laid up in store ; It's Written upon the Old Pillars of Fate , This Year shall Eclipse all thy Enemies State : Peace , Plenty and Riches , our Nation shall Crown , While the Devil and's Imps at our Happiness frown All this will prove true by the mutual consent Of William our King and a Free Parliament . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-Baily : Where Country Chapmen and others , may be Furnished with all sorts of New and Old Small Books and Ballads , at Rea - sonable Rates . THE Loyal Subject's Happy Choice : OR , Englands Happiness in a Protestant King and a Free Parliament . To the Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . L Et truehearted English-men freely Rejoice , To think they have made such a Fortunate Choice Of Parliament-men , who Assemble this Day , The Rights of the Church and the Crown to display : To Rescue our Laws and our Liberties too , From such as the Nation do seek to undo : Let all Loyal Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . Let Murmurers cease any more to complain , And highminded Papists lay by their Disdain ; For all their sly Projects we care not a pin , Since Englands true Honour this Day does begin ; And the Twenty'th of March we for ever will keep , As the Day that Great-Brittain awoke from her sleep : Then let all true Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . The true Church of England may lift up her Head , Since in her own Bosom this Senate was bred ; Whose worthy brave Members are taught to maintain The Rights of their Mother , against Schismatics vain : No Commonwealth-broachers shall longer prevail , Away with the Rump and her Factious Tail : And let all true Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . Nor need the Dissenters to live at less ease , Since they may their Liberty have as they please ; Provided they keep but the Peace of the Realm , And render due Homage to those at the Helm : All People from highest to lowest Degree , Henceforward may happily live and be Free : Then let all true Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . No Bishops , no King , is a Proverb most true , And he that would part they is worse than a Jew ; And they are no better than Spiritual Thieves , Who threaten to pull off the Bishops Lawn Sleeves But both Lords and Commons their Cause to assert , Against all Fanatics who have been so pert : Then let all true Subject's with this be content , A Protestant King and a Free Parliament . This Parliament also will stand by the King , In Wars and in Peace , and in every thing ; With their Lives and Estates they will freely oppose The French and the Irish , and all other Foes : When the Rebels are Conquered , then over to France , Our Army will led Monsieur Lewis a Dance , Which will give all English-men hearty content , To have such a King and a Free Parliament . The French being Conquered , and all things in Peace , Our Nation will thrive , and our Trading increase ; Then Coin will be plenty , both Silver and Gold , The want of which thing makes a Young Man look Old Such Plenty of Coin will in England be seen , As these many hundreds of years has not been : These blessings will follow by the mutual consent Of such a good King and a Free Parliament . Then rouse up Great - B rittain and slumber no more ; For thee many Fortune's are laid up in store ; It's Written upon the Old Pillars of Fate , This Year shall Eclipse all thy Enemies State : Peace , Plenty and Riches , our Nation shall Crown , While the Devil and's Imps at our Happiness frown All this will prove true by the mutual consent Of William our King and a Free Parliament . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-Baily : Where Country Chapmen and others , may be Furnished with all sorts of New and Old Small Books and Ballads , at Rea - sonable Rates . 