The PROTESTANTS TRIUMPH : OR , King WILLIAM Proclaimed , to the Subject's Joy and Gladness . To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . TO Hrice Welcome to London , that Renowned Prince , Who freely stood up for the Nations Defence : Nay , when we were sinking and ready to fallen , Then did he step in and Deliver us all ; When we on the brink of sad Ruin did stand , 'Twas done by a Mighty Miraculous Hand : He but little Blood in this Nation did spill , Our Gracious King Willian may Heaven bless still . He is in the prospect of England's Great Crown , And fully resolves to keep Popery down ; And therefore he ventured over Tempestuous Seas , When he might have tarried at home at his ease : But 'twas for our good , as it well does appear , That he was so Graciously pleased to come here : No Trouble nor Danger his Courage could kill , Our Gracious King William may Heaven bless still . To stand for Religion is all his Design , His heart is so Gracious , so Good and Divine , And therefore in pity , he came to subdue Those Troubles and Dangers he feared would ensue : 'Twas time to stand up for the Protostant Cause , When as they endeavoured to make void our Laws ; But yet I do hope they shall never have their Will , Our Gracious King William may Heaven bless still . With loud Acclamations he was Welcomed in , And he does the hearts of all Honest Men win ; While Bells' they are Ringing , and Trumpets do soun [ worser ] His Health in Canary goes merrily round : As knowing he never intended to wrong No Person of what unto them did belong , But settle our Laws by the best of his skill , Our Gracious King William may Heaven bless still . The most of his Army we see are inclined Unto a most Noble and Generous Mind ; Behaving themselves here most gallant and brave , Both Silver and Gold in their Pockets they have ; They come not to burden this Nation at all , But freely they pay for what ever they call ; By which they have purchased the Nations Goodwill , Our Gracious King William may Heaven bless still . There's each drooping Soul which did formerly grieve They having much reason , alas ! to believe That Popery over the Nation would spread ; This filled their hearts with much sorrow and dread : And yet when our hope's they were quite at and end , The Lord he in mercy , his Church did defend : Then let e'ry Christian submit to his Will , And pray that our King may be Prosperous still . And when a Free-Parliament shall come to Fit , They may not their faithful Allegiance forget , But Act what is Honest , both Upright and fair , Betwixt William our King , and his People with care ; That here in this Land in much Glory , he may Wear the Royal Crown , and the Sceptre here Sway : For he to this Nation a Blessing does bring , Then let's pray for William our Protestant King . FINIS . Printed for J. Wolrah . The PROTESTANTS TRIUMPH : OR , King WILLIAM Proclaimed , to the Subject's Joy and Gladness . To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . TO Hrice Welcome to London , that Renowned Prince , Who freely stood up for the Nations Defence : Nay , when we were sinking and ready to fallen , Then did he step in and Deliver us all ; When we on the brink of sad Ruin did stand , 'Twas done by a Mighty Miraculous Hand : He but little Blood in this Nation did spill , Our Gracious King Willian may Heaven bless still . He is in the prospect of England's Great Crown , And fully resolves to keep Popery down ; And therefore he ventured over Tempestuous Seas , When he might have tarried at home at his ease : But 'twas for our good , as it well does appear , That he was so Graciously pleased to come here : No Trouble nor Danger his Courage could kill , Our Gracious King William may Heaven bless still . To stand for Religion is all his Design , His heart is so Gracious , so Good and Divine , And therefore in pity , he came to subdue Those Troubles and Dangers he feared would ensue : 'Twas time to stand up for the Protostant Cause , When as they endeavoured to make void our Laws ; But yet I do hope they shall never have their Will , Our Gracious King William may Heaven bless still . With loud Acclamations he was Welcomed in , And he does the hearts of all Honest Men win ; While Bells' they are Ringing , and Trumpets do soun [ worser ] His Health in Canary goes merrily round : As knowing he never intended to wrong No Person of what unto them did belong , But settle our Laws by the best of his skill , Our Gracious King William may Heaven bless still . The most of his Army we see are inclined Unto a most Noble and Generous Mind ; Behaving themselves here most gallant and brave , Both Silver and Gold in their Pockets they have ; They come not to burden this Nation at all , But freely they pay for what ever they call ; By which they have purchased the Nations Goodwill , Our Gracious King William may Heaven bless still . There's each drooping Soul which did formerly grieve They having much reason , alas ! to believe That Popery over the Nation would spread ; This filled their hearts with much sorrow and dread : And yet when our hope's they were quite at and end , The Lord he in mercy , his Church did defend : Then let e'ry Christian submit to his Will , And pray that our King may be Prosperous still . And when a Free-Parliament shall come to Fit , They may not their faithful Allegiance forget , But Act what is Honest , both Upright and fair , Betwixt William our King , and his People with care ; That here in this Land in much Glory , he may Wear the Royal Crown , and the Sceptre here Sway : For he to this Nation a Blessing does bring , Then let's pray for William our Protestant King . FINIS . Printed for J. Wolrah . 