The Loyal Subject's Free Choice : OR , Their General Satisfaction in the Calling of a New PARLIAMENT , By King William's Gracious Appointment , Whom God ever bless . To the Tune of Grim King of the Ghosts . Licensed according to Order . L Et all Royal Glory and State invest our Great King on his Throne ; Whose Prudence and Wisdom so great all Protestant Subject's will own To spring from a gracious Design to give all his People content , that none may have cause to repine He hath called a new Parliament . Let Murmurers now lay aside their many insensible Fears ; The Church shall in safety abide ; for the loyal Commons and Peers Are Men of Integrity all Feuds in this Realm to prevent , And prosperous Days we shall see , being blessed with a new Parliament . The Wrongs of True Subject's they'll right , likewise the proud Papists oppose ; Maintaining and Army to Fight and cut down those insolent Foes . The Honour and Peace of the Realm , they'll strive to maintain by consent ; God bless those that sits at the Helm , the King and His new Parliament . Never was there a legaller Choice in any past Ages before ; Each Subject hath here a free Voice , not only the Rich but the Poor : All Persons might Vote that was free , no Courtier to hinder was sent ; His Majesty gave Liberty for choosing a free Parliament . No Favourite sent from the Throne , though Counties and Cities to run , Procuring still Tools of their own , as some in times past would have done : But here was true Freedom for all , to Vote by the Subject's consent , To bring the whole Land out of Thrall , God prosper the New Parliament . Who by their industrious care our Liberties here they'll maintain , And Protestants every where shall find this a prosperous Reign : No Romans shall ever be seen to cause this our Nation to rue ; Let's pray for the King and the Queen , and the High Court of Parliament too . Let Wisdom from Heaven above , direct them in weighty Affairs ; Continuing steadfast in love , avoiding their Enemies snares ; And Protestant Subject's may sing , and bid all their Sorrows adieu ; Still praying for William our King , the High Court of Parliament too . His Majesty now on the Throne in him all the Nation is blessed ; He seeks not a Tribe of his own , in order to take off the Test ; As some heretofore would have done , which was of the Catholic Crew : But King William our Hearts he hath wone , God Bless Him , and Parliament too . Religion and Piety he do's make all his study and care , And set forth his gracious Decree , to Protestants every where , Our sad sinful lives to amend , which God grant we freely may do , That Blessings may always attend , the King and His Parliament too . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Loyal Subject's Free Choice : OR , Their General Satisfaction in the Calling of a New PARLIAMENT , By King William's Gracious Appointment , Whom God ever bless . To the Tune of Grim King of the Ghosts . Licensed according to Order . L Et all Royal Glory and State invest our Great King on his Throne ; Whose Prudence and Wisdom so great all Protestant Subject's will own To spring from a gracious Design to give all his People content , that none may have cause to repine He hath called a new Parliament . Let Murmurers now lay aside their many insensible Fears ; The Church shall in safety abide ; for the loyal Commons and Peers Are Men of Integrity all Feuds in this Realm to prevent , And prosperous Days we shall see , being blessed with a new Parliament . The Wrongs of True Subject's they'll right , likewise the proud Papists oppose ; Maintaining and Army to Fight and cut down those insolent Foes . The Honour and Peace of the Realm , they'll strive to maintain by consent ; God bless those that sits at the Helm , the King and His new Parliament . Never was there a legaller Choice in any past Ages before ; Each Subject hath here a free Voice , not only the Rich but the Poor : All Persons might Vote that was free , no Courtier to hinder was sent ; His Majesty gave Liberty for choosing a free Parliament . No Favourite sent from the Throne , though Counties and Cities to run , Procuring still Tools of their own , as some in times past would have done : But here was true Freedom for all , to Vote by the Subject's consent , To bring the whole Land out of Thrall , God prosper the New Parliament . Who by their industrious care our Liberties here they'll maintain , And Protestants every where shall find this a prosperous Reign : No Romans shall ever be seen to cause this our Nation to rue ; Let's pray for the King and the Queen , and the High Court of Parliament too . Let Wisdom from Heaven above , direct them in weighty Affairs ; Continuing steadfast in love , avoiding their Enemies snares ; And Protestant Subject's may sing , and bid all their Sorrows adieu ; Still praying for William our King , the High Court of Parliament too . His Majesty now on the Throne in him all the Nation is blessed ; He seeks not a Tribe of his own , in order to take off the Test ; As some heretofore would have done , which was of the Catholic Crew : But King William our Hearts he hath wone , God Bless Him , and Parliament too . Religion and Piety he do's make all his study and care , And set forth his gracious Decree , to Protestants every where , Our sad sinful lives to amend , which God grant we freely may do , That Blessings may always attend , the King and His Parliament too . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 