The GLORY of the Northern parts of England . Showing the Readiness of the Gentry and Commonalty of the Counties of Chester and Lancaster , in join - ing with the Prince of Orange , at his Highnesses first Landing , etc . Make use of time , Delays are dangerous things , Defend your Faith from whence all Blessings springs : Since they our Laws did strive to Sacrifice , And fill the Nations with Romes Bloody Flies ; Unmask this Romish Crew , who Reign in Knavery , Secure your selves from Popery and Slavery . To the Tune of , Valiant Stutely . B Rave News and Tidings here we bring , And of rare Sparks and Soldiers sing , which in our Horizon do now appear ; For pure Religion they will Fight , And to maintain the Countries Right , assisted by the brave L ord Delamere . Our Worthy Lords did all agree , To set this Land at Liberty , though some base Spirits in the world appear , Which did refuse for to consent To fraud or fallen by Parliament , united with the brave L ord Delamere . To give account of every thing , Which happened since Great Charles our King , would terrify each honest heart to hear , Now Protestants of each Degree , Have been oppressed with Popery , excused was not the great L ord Delamere . The Noble-hearted sober Men , By Papists was secured then , and with Oppression vexed this Land each year , Till by Divine appointment , came That Royal Prince , William by Name , and with him joined the brave Lord Delamere . And since in mercy God hath sent And Orange here to our content , the Prince of Wales is fled I know not where And with him Petres has his Plot , discovered by the brave L ord Delamere . This Noble valiant Cheshire Lord , With whom the Country do accord , his very name does make the Papists fear : the Earl of WORSER ---- y does agree , To prove the Jesuits Enemy , and stand for Orange with brave Delamere . Thus now brave Noble-hearted Boys , I have writ a Line in Cheshire praise , blessed by the presence of so brave a Peer . And L ancashire thou art not behind ; Who didst in every thing Combine , proposed for public good by Delamere . Manchester Town I have in mind , Since they to B ---- worser did prove so kind , their fervent love and zeal did pass all fear : Though danger stood on every side , And M ----- x advanced his pride , they vowed to venture all with Delamere . How brave they met on Boden-Plain , To see Great B ----- h and B --- worser them twain , embrace each other without popish fear ; The Country rose them to defend , And thus my Story I shall end , and pray for the brave L ord of Delamere . And next you may expect to hear , Of the brave Earl of Devonshire , whose pious Valour in this Land does ring ; Maxfield , Wharton , and L ovelace , Did wait to see the Prince's Grace , arrive in England , which did Glory bring . FINIS . Printed for B. J. 1689. The GLORY of the Northern parts of England . Showing the Readiness of the Gentry and Commonalty of the Counties of Chester and Lancaster , in join - ing with the Prince of Orange , at his Highnesses first Landing , etc . Make use of time , Delays are dangerous things , Defend your Faith from whence all Blessings springs : Since they our Laws did strive to Sacrifice , And fill the Nations with Romes Bloody Flies ; Unmask this Romish Crew , who Reign in Knavery , Secure your selves from Popery and Slavery . To the Tune of , Valiant Stutely . B Rave News and Tidings here we bring , And of rare Sparks and Soldiers sing , which in our Horizon do now appear ; For pure Religion they will Fight , And to maintain the Countries Right , assisted by the brave L ord Delamere . Our Worthy Lords did all agree , To set this Land at Liberty , though some base Spirits in the world appear , Which did refuse for to consent To fraud or fallen by Parliament , united with the brave L ord Delamere . To give account of every thing , Which happened since Great Charles our King , would terrify each honest heart to hear , Now Protestants of each Degree , Have been oppressed with Popery , excused was not the great L ord Delamere . The Noble-hearted sober Men , By Papists was secured then , and with Oppression vexed this Land each year , Till by Divine appointment , came That Royal Prince , William by Name , and with him joined the brave Lord Delamere . And since in mercy God hath sent And Orange here to our content , the Prince of Wales is fled I know not where And with him Petres has his Plot , discovered by the brave L ord Delamere . This Noble valiant Cheshire Lord , With whom the Country do accord , his very name does make the Papists fear : the Earl of WORSER ---- y does agree , To prove the Jesuits Enemy , and stand for Orange with brave Delamere . Thus now brave Noble-hearted Boys , I have writ a Line in Cheshire praise , blessed by the presence of so brave a Peer . And L ancashire thou art not behind ; Who didst in every thing Combine , proposed for public good by Delamere . Manchester Town I have in mind , Since they to B ---- worser did prove so kind , their fervent love and zeal did pass all fear : Though danger stood on every side , And M ----- x advanced his pride , they vowed to venture all with Delamere . How brave they met on Boden-Plain , To see Great B ----- h and B --- worser them twain , embrace each other without popish fear ; The Country rose them to defend , And thus my Story I shall end , and pray for the brave L ord of Delamere . And next you may expect to hear , Of the brave Earl of Devonshire , whose pious Valour in this Land does ring ; Maxfield , Wharton , and L ovelace , Did wait to see the Prince's Grace , arrive in England , which did Glory bring . FINIS . Printed for B. J. 1689. 