The Courtly Triumph . Or , And Excellent New Song upon the CORONATION of K. William and Q. Marry , Which was Splendidly Celebrated on the 11 th . of April , 1689. To the Tune of , Cannons Roar . Licensed according to Order . S Owned the Trumpet beatrice the Drum , Boys , the Golden Age is come , The true Fame of Christendom , is William and Queen Marry ; Who by Providence is Crowned , Let their Actions be Renowned , While their Loyal Healths go round , in Glasses of Canary . Protestants has cause to pray , That they may the Sceptre Sway , Purging Popery away , and Romish Usurpation ; He that came to take our part , While we felt Romes fatal smart Let him Reign in e'ry heart , through all this Land and Nation , Now he is our Crowned King , Under whose protecting Wing , E'ry Soul may sweetly sing , without Romes Molestation ; For we now have lived to see This Land purged from Popery , And the Royal Dignity , of William's great Coronation . Thousands Subject's did flock there . And no Cost nor Charge would spare , To behold the Royal pair , in their Renowned Station ; From the Noble to the Mean , Joy in e'ry face was seen , When our Gracious King and Queen , was at their great Coronation . From the Palace all proclaim Royal Dignity and Fame , By the smiling Crowds that came in each Degree and Station ; Noble Lords and Ladies gay , Decked in costly rich Array , Came to Celebrate the Day of William is great Coronation . What was ever more Complete , How like moving Angels sweet , Did they gently pass the Street , to Grace this Consummation ; The great Courts in Europe fair , Never could with this compare , 'Twas as if they all was there at William is great Coronation . Those that see their Princely Train , Had not power to refrain Wishing them a happy Reign , without Dissimulation ; While the Music soft and sweet , did with hearty wishes meet , Thus the Day we did Complete of William is great Coronation . We Rejoice , who lately Mourned , Tears are now to Blessings turned , None but Papists are Concerned , at this great Alteration : Heavens blessed this great Design , By a Power most Divine , Conduits freely run with Wine at William is great Coronation . He that might have lived at ease , Crossed the raging roaring Seas , For religions Liberties , in Protestant Protection , While he does our Spirits cheer , Talbot he will quake for fear , When he shall the Tidings hear of William is great Coro [ n ] ation . Printed for W. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . The Courtly Triumph . Or , And Excellent New Song upon the CORONATION of K. William and Q. Marry , Which was Splendidly Celebrated on the 11 th . of April , 1689. To the Tune of , Cannons Roar . Licensed according to Order . S Owned the Trumpet beatrice the Drum , Boys , the Golden Age is come , The true Fame of Christendom , is William and Queen Marry ; Who by Providence is Crowned , Let their Actions be Renowned , While their Loyal Healths go round , in Glasses of Canary . Protestants has cause to pray , That they may the Sceptre Sway , Purging Popery away , and Romish Usurpation ; He that came to take our part , While we felt Romes fatal smart Let him Reign in e'ry heart , through all this Land and Nation , Now he is our Crowned King , Under whose protecting Wing , E'ry Soul may sweetly sing , without Romes Molestation ; For we now have lived to see This Land purged from Popery , And the Royal Dignity , of William's great Coronation . Thousands Subject's did flock there . And no Cost nor Charge would spare , To behold the Royal pair , in their Renowned Station ; From the Noble to the Mean , Joy in e'ry face was seen , When our Gracious King and Queen , was at their great Coronation . From the Palace all proclaim Royal Dignity and Fame , By the smiling Crowds that came in each Degree and Station ; Noble Lords and Ladies gay , Decked in costly rich Array , Came to Celebrate the Day of William is great Coronation . What was ever more Complete , How like moving Angels sweet , Did they gently pass the Street , to Grace this Consummation ; The great Courts in Europe fair , Never could with this compare , 'Twas as if they all was there at William is great Coronation . Those that see their Princely Train , Had not power to refrain Wishing them a happy Reign , without Dissimulation ; While the Music soft and sweet , did with hearty wishes meet , Thus the Day we did Complete of William is great Coronation . We Rejoice , who lately Mourned , Tears are now to Blessings turned , None but Papists are Concerned , at this great Alteration : Heavens blessed this great Design , By a Power most Divine , Conduits freely run with Wine at William is great Coronation . He that might have lived at ease , Crossed the raging roaring Seas , For religions Liberties , in Protestant Protection , While he does our Spirits cheer , Talbot he will quake for fear , When he shall the Tidings hear of William is great Coro [ n ] ation . Printed for W. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . 