The Kingdoms Cares Endued with Comfort , BY The CORONATION OF King William and Queen Marry , Which was Gloriously Celebrated on the 11 th . of this Instant April , 1689. To the Tune of , Charon , etc L Et all true protestants now in this Nation , pray the King William may flourish long ; Then I declare without all Disputation , it's not the Roman can do us wrong : Thus we may see the Kingdoms Glory , and while our Monarch is Renowned , We [ ' ] ll not believe in a false purgatory , now our Great William and Mary [ ' ] s Crowned . In our Great Prince we have true Satisfaction , that he our Liberties will maintain , And through his Heavenly Christian protection , we shall be blessed with a happy Reign : And be more Joyful now than ever , seeing our Monarch is Renowned , For a true Union now let us endeavour , Gracious King William and Mary is Crowned . Rome and her Faction was all in Confusion , seeing the Glory of this Great Day , Nay , and beholding the happy Conclusion , they knew not what in the world to say : Yet though the Roman were offended , and on the protestants then Frowned , Our Great King was with Glory attended , and with his Gracious Queen Marry Crowned . But the true Protestants they were as merry , as the Birds in the returning Spring , Drinking good Healths in full Bumpers of Sherry , unto great William our Royal King , Wishing he long may Reign and flourish , being with mighty fame Renowned , For he the Church and his people will nourish , now he with gracious Queen Marry is Crowned . The noble Barrons and dukes of this Nation , with their sweet beautiful Ladies gay , Gave their attendance at this Coronation , in Royal Robes and most rich array : So that it well may be reported , never was Monarch more Renowned ; While his true Subject's with Joys are transported , seeing King William and Mary Crowned . How many thousands did throng to the palace , while the vast numerous Train was there ? And with that beautiful sighed they did solace their curious fancy beyond compare ; Then Loyal Healths in rich Canary , from hand to hand went sweetly round , First to King William and then to Queen Marry , who with a rich Diadem now is Crowned . Cannons they roared from the capital Tower , bearing the tidings both far and near , Likewise expressing the Protestant power , making our Enemies quake for fear ; For in our wars like roaring Thunder , we'll make the Elements resound , And bring Tyrconnel and his Rebels under , now our King William and Mary is Crowned . Unto King William our hearts we'll surrender , nay , and our Loyal obedience own , He is our Monarch and true Faiths defender , now seated here in the Royal Throne ; May he enjoy the perfect blessing , of being truly here Renowned , And in his Kingdoms all pleasures possessing , now he with Royal Queen Marry is Crowned . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . The Kingdoms Cares Endued with Comfort , BY The CORONATION OF King William and Queen Marry , Which was Gloriously Celebrated on the 11 th . of this Instant April , 1689. To the Tune of , Charon , etc L Et all true protestants now in this Nation , pray the King William may flourish long ; Then I declare without all Disputation , it's not the Roman can do us wrong : Thus we may see the Kingdoms Glory , and while our Monarch is Renowned , We [ ' ] ll not believe in a false purgatory , now our Great William and Mary [ ' ] s Crowned . In our Great Prince we have true Satisfaction , that he our Liberties will maintain , And through his Heavenly Christian protection , we shall be blessed with a happy Reign : And be more Joyful now than ever , seeing our Monarch is Renowned , For a true Union now let us endeavour , Gracious King William and Mary is Crowned . Rome and her Faction was all in Confusion , seeing the Glory of this Great Day , Nay , and beholding the happy Conclusion , they knew not what in the world to say : Yet though the Roman were offended , and on the protestants then Frowned , Our Great King was with Glory attended , and with his Gracious Queen Marry Crowned . But the true Protestants they were as merry , as the Birds in the returning Spring , Drinking good Healths in full Bumpers of Sherry , unto great William our Royal King , Wishing he long may Reign and flourish , being with mighty fame Renowned , For he the Church and his people will nourish , now he with gracious Queen Marry is Crowned . The noble Barrons and dukes of this Nation , with their sweet beautiful Ladies gay , Gave their attendance at this Coronation , in Royal Robes and most rich array : So that it well may be reported , never was Monarch more Renowned ; While his true Subject's with Joys are transported , seeing King William and Mary Crowned . How many thousands did throng to the palace , while the vast numerous Train was there ? And with that beautiful sighed they did solace their curious fancy beyond compare ; Then Loyal Healths in rich Canary , from hand to hand went sweetly round , First to King William and then to Queen Marry , who with a rich Diadem now is Crowned . Cannons they roared from the capital Tower , bearing the tidings both far and near , Likewise expressing the Protestant power , making our Enemies quake for fear ; For in our wars like roaring Thunder , we'll make the Elements resound , And bring Tyrconnel and his Rebels under , now our King William and Mary is Crowned . Unto King William our hearts we'll surrender , nay , and our Loyal obedience own , He is our Monarch and true Faiths defender , now seated here in the Royal Throne ; May he enjoy the perfect blessing , of being truly here Renowned , And in his Kingdoms all pleasures possessing , now he with Royal Queen Marry is Crowned . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . 