Great-Brittains Renown , Or , the Princely TRIUMPH of the Glorious CORONATION of K. WILLIAM and Q. MARY , Which was on the 11 th . Day of April , 1689. To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . GReat Brittain be Cheerful and hold up thy head , All Sorrows are now with thy Enemies fled ; And therefore our Spirits , brave Boys we may cheer , For we have a Blessing now come in the Rear ; The Storm and the Tempest will soon be overblown , A Protestant King being placed in the Throne , Which now is the Triumph and joy of the Town , King William and Mary is come to the Crown . The Nobles and Commons of e'ry degree , Does give satisfaction of their Loyalty ; A Consort of voices strikes all in a strain , Long , long may King William here flourish and Reign , The Heavenly Joys of this Land to complete , And make all his Enemies fallen at his feet , And cloth him with perfect true Fame and Renown , That long he may flourish with Sceptre and Crown . While we have a Protestant Prince to survive , We well may be certain this Kingdom will thrive ; Let no Man be subject to grieve or repine , For each may enjoy the Fruits of his own Vine , Without Molestation or any Regret , We all may be happy both in Church and State : It is not the Papists that can run us down , Now William and Mary is come to the Crown . The Glory and Triumph of this Royal Day , Was graced by the Nobles and sweet Ladies gay , Who did with the Queen then for fair beauty bright , Then cast a most Splendid and Heavenly light , To those that beheld the vast numerous Train , Who wished them a long and a prosperous Reign ; While Healths and full Bumpers went merrily round , Now Gracious King William and Mary is Crowned . Whole hundreds and thousands did thither repair , Who no kind of Cost in the least then did spare , But freely then parted with Silver and Gold , In order this Heavenly Sighed to behold ; And being transported with Raptures of Joy , All Protestants crying out , Vive le Roy : Now cloth him with Honour , true Fame and Renown . That long he may flourish with Sceptre and Crown . The Bells' they did Ring , and the loud Cannons roar , To carry this joyful good Tidings all over ; While every honest true Protestant Soul , Did drink their good Healths in a full flowing Bowl ; Who still will maintain our Religion and Laws , With loud Acclamations and Loyal Huzza's , While smiling full Bumpers went merrily round , King William and Gracious Queen Marry is Crowned . Quite through the City , our joys to complete , Vast Bonfires shined with Music so sweet ; Which did to the Triumph much pleasure afford , Then wishing great William our Sovereign Lord May ever be able dis Foes to subdue , Tyrconnel and all his whole Irish Crew ; That this Potent Nation may still be Renowned , Now William and Gracious Queen Marry is Crowned . They are to the Throne and the Kingdom a Grace , As being both Born of the true Royal Raze ; Now by the Power of Heavens Decree , Are placed in the height of their Dignity ; Long , long may the flourish our Rights to maintain , And Heavenly Blessings still sweeten their Reign : Then Peace in these Kingdoms will daily abound Now William and Gracious Queen Marry is Crowned . FINIS . Printed for G. Conyers , at the Gold-King on Ludgate - [ Hill ] Great-Brittains Renown , Or , the Princely TRIUMPH of the Glorious CORONATION of K. WILLIAM and Q. MARY , Which was on the 11 th . Day of April , 1689. To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . GReat Brittain be Cheerful and hold up thy head , All Sorrows are now with thy Enemies fled ; And therefore our Spirits , brave Boys we may cheer , For we have a Blessing now come in the Rear ; The Storm and the Tempest will soon be overblown , A Protestant King being placed in the Throne , Which now is the Triumph and joy of the Town , King William and Mary is come to the Crown . The Nobles and Commons of e'ry degree , Does give satisfaction of their Loyalty ; A Consort of voices strikes all in a strain , Long , long may King William here flourish and Reign , The Heavenly Joys of this Land to complete , And make all his Enemies fallen at his feet , And cloth him with perfect true Fame and Renown , That long he may flourish with Sceptre and Crown . While we have a Protestant Prince to survive , We well may be certain this Kingdom will thrive ; Let no Man be subject to grieve or repine , For each may enjoy the Fruits of his own Vine , Without Molestation or any Regret , We all may be happy both in Church and State : It is not the Papists that can run us down , Now William and Mary is come to the Crown . The Glory and Triumph of this Royal Day , Was graced by the Nobles and sweet Ladies gay , Who did with the Queen then for fair beauty bright , Then cast a most Splendid and Heavenly light , To those that beheld the vast numerous Train , Who wished them a long and a prosperous Reign ; While Healths and full Bumpers went merrily round , Now Gracious King William and Mary is Crowned . Whole hundreds and thousands did thither repair , Who no kind of Cost in the least then did spare , But freely then parted with Silver and Gold , In order this Heavenly Sighed to behold ; And being transported with Raptures of Joy , All Protestants crying out , Vive le Roy : Now cloth him with Honour , true Fame and Renown . That long he may flourish with Sceptre and Crown . The Bells' they did Ring , and the loud Cannons roar , To carry this joyful good Tidings all over ; While every honest true Protestant Soul , Did drink their good Healths in a full flowing Bowl ; Who still will maintain our Religion and Laws , With loud Acclamations and Loyal Huzza's , While smiling full Bumpers went merrily round , King William and Gracious Queen Marry is Crowned . Quite through the City , our joys to complete , Vast Bonfires shined with Music so sweet ; Which did to the Triumph much pleasure afford , Then wishing great William our Sovereign Lord May ever be able dis Foes to subdue , Tyrconnel and all his whole Irish Crew ; That this Potent Nation may still be Renowned , Now William and Gracious Queen Marry is Crowned . They are to the Throne and the Kingdom a Grace , As being both Born of the true Royal Raze ; Now by the Power of Heavens Decree , Are placed in the height of their Dignity ; Long , long may the flourish our Rights to maintain , And Heavenly Blessings still sweeten their Reign : Then Peace in these Kingdoms will daily abound Now William and Gracious Queen Marry is Crowned . FINIS . Printed for G. Conyers , at the Gold-King on Ludgate - [ Hill ] 