And Excellent New SONG Fitted for the Times . Tune of , I met with a Jovial Beggar . L Et England now with me Rejoice this day to see From Popery all set free ; And join with one consent To choose a Parliament Unto our own hearts consent , Which shall decide the case , and establish all old Law , In spite of they who shall say nay , for Popery stands in awe . It was God's blessed will , The Scripture to fulfil , Though soar against their will ; Had not brave Orange come , We had been quite undone , And ever this had had our doom : But now we'll hold up our heads , let Papists throw away their Beads ; And all Priests with their spite we'll banish quite & amp ; flourish most brave in our trades . Brave Essex in the Tower , Was murdered in and hour By Jesuits plots and power ; But when the truth is known , And by Parliament open shown , The right Dog shall pick the bone : For Tyrconnel that Ruffian great , that stands out against Church & amp ; State , In conclusion of all shall have a downfall , or Tyburn shall play his fate . Since Irish Rebellion first , That Talbot has been accursed , For the Protestants he did roast : And now he stands in defence Of brave Orange and Protestants , And gathers all the Kings Rends : But let him have his sway , for every Devil has his day , But when his Card out , he shall have the rout in spite of who shall say nay . For great force in Ireland , As I do understand , He hath raised and will not disband ; Saying in his own pretence , He stands in the Kings defence , But the Devil knows from whence : For from Blow came all his men , But never shall return again , For we'll pull off their boots , & amp ; cut they off by the roots , then let Protestants say Amen . For as I do understand , They aimed at Churches Land , And all Protestants did disband : They were come to be so high flown , That they god on the Throne , Crying out that the day was their own But now in our prime we'll rejoice , and sing with a changeable voice , For when we go to't , we'll kill horse & amp ; foot , for fear lest the Nits should turn Lice . Now Protestants eyes are open , And Popery has had its scope , So their next turn will be the Rope , For Tyburn is waiting still Some of their blood to spill , Their old Roguery to fulfil : For they have run out their raze , and now to their soul disgrace . Their Rogueries known , and will be show [ n ] when Parliament takes its place . Printed for T. R . And Excellent New SONG Fitted for the Times . Tune of , I met with a Jovial Beggar . L Et England now with me Rejoice this day to see From Popery all set free ; And join with one consent To choose a Parliament Unto our own hearts consent , Which shall decide the case , and establish all old Law , In spite of they who shall say nay , for Popery stands in awe . It was God's blessed will , The Scripture to fulfil , Though soar against their will ; Had not brave Orange come , We had been quite undone , And ever this had had our doom : But now we'll hold up our heads , let Papists throw away their Beads ; And all Priests with their spite we'll banish quite & amp ; flourish most brave in our trades . Brave Essex in the Tower , Was murdered in and hour By Jesuits plots and power ; But when the truth is known , And by Parliament open shown , The right Dog shall pick the bone : For Tyrconnel that Ruffian great , that stands out against Church & amp ; State , In conclusion of all shall have a downfall , or Tyburn shall play his fate . Since Irish Rebellion first , That Talbot has been accursed , For the Protestants he did roast : And now he stands in defence Of brave Orange and Protestants , And gathers all the Kings Rends : But let him have his sway , for every Devil has his day , But when his Card out , he shall have the rout in spite of who shall say nay . For great force in Ireland , As I do understand , He hath raised and will not disband ; Saying in his own pretence , He stands in the Kings defence , But the Devil knows from whence : For from Blow came all his men , But never shall return again , For we'll pull off their boots , & amp ; cut they off by the roots , then let Protestants say Amen . For as I do understand , They aimed at Churches Land , And all Protestants did disband : They were come to be so high flown , That they god on the Throne , Crying out that the day was their own But now in our prime we'll rejoice , and sing with a changeable voice , For when we go to't , we'll kill horse & amp ; foot , for fear lest the Nits should turn Lice . Now Protestants eyes are open , And Popery has had its scope , So their next turn will be the Rope , For Tyburn is waiting still Some of their blood to spill , Their old Roguery to fulfil : For they have run out their raze , and now to their soul disgrace . Their Rogueries known , and will be show [ n ] when Parliament takes its place . Printed for T. R. 