The Chancellors Resolution : OR , His Last Sayings a little before his Death . To the Tune of , Lilli borlero . I have been long in Custody here , under strong Bolts a Prisoner fast , Being possessed always with a fear , that I should live to swing at the last ; Never was Man more tormented , sorrow and grief my senses does seize ; I never was pitied , but faith I have fitted the Hangman , and cozened him of his Fees . I have been made the scorn of the Town , who was of late next Man to a Throne ; Every Rascal's running me down , so that I make most pitiful moan ; There's a thousand death's invented , for honest George , who them did displease ; but to their vexation , I shall cheat the Nation , and likewise the Hangman of all his Fees . I was the whipping Scourge of this age , cause [ ing ] good Men to suffer with shame , [ Therefore the Land ] is all in a Rage , [ wishing I ] might partake of the same : Some [ says scourge me , others hang ] me , [ thus e'ry ] one condemns as they please ; [ But my speech ] does falter , I shall escape the Halter , [ and cozen ] the Hangman of all his Fees . I wish the [ rest ] would murder the Test , this is a Crime which none would excuse ; And the good Wives that lives in the West , hope's they shall see my die in my Shoes ; But they will not have their wishes , conquering Death does Chancellor seize ; Oh let them not Cavel , the Gout and the Gravel , will cozen the Hangman of all his Fees . Ever since I have lain in this Den , faith I have lost the Purse and the Mace , And am exposed abroad among Men , under the terms of shame and disgrace ; Some says hang me , others flee me , and twenty Death's more cruel then these , But here I am lying , upon my Bed dying , I'll cozen the Hangman of all his fees . William and Mary being Proclaimed , this like and Arrow went to my heart , I with a Favour straight was inflamed , fearing I soon should have my desert : Thousands waited for my Trial , a shameful end the Rabble would please , Though they do crave it , they never shall have it , I'll cozen the Hangman of all his fees . Now when I hear King William was Crowned , and that the loud-mouthed Cannons [ did roar , ] Presently I fell into a Swooned , never was man so daunted before ; And my Stony old Distemper , violently my Body did seize ; It's no feigned Story , but in this I glow [ ry ] to cozen the Hangman of all his fees . Some did declare I must lose my Head , others said Hanging would be my Doom , Because I for Honour had been misled , pleading always for Treacherous Room ; But faith they're disappointed , conquering Death my Spirits does seize , I'll make each a Liar , and straightways expire , so cozen the Hangman of all his fees . FINIS . Printed in the Year , 168 [ 9 ] The Chancellors Resolution : OR , His Last Sayings a little before his Death . To the Tune of , Lilli borlero . I have been long in Custody here , under strong Bolts a Prisoner fast , Being possessed always with a fear , that I should live to swing at the last ; Never was Man more tormented , sorrow and grief my senses does seize ; I never was pitied , but faith I have fitted the Hangman , and cozened him of his Fees . I have been made the scorn of the Town , who was of late next Man to a Throne ; Every Rascal's running me down , so that I make most pitiful moan ; There's a thousand death's invented , for honest George , who them did displease ; but to their vexation , I shall cheat the Nation , and likewise the Hangman of all his Fees . I was the whipping Scourge of this age , cause [ ing ] good Men to suffer with shame , [ Therefore the Land ] is all in a Rage , [ wishing I ] might partake of the same : Some [ says scourge me , others hang ] me , [ thus e'ry ] one condemns as they please ; [ But my speech ] does falter , I shall escape the Halter , [ and cozen ] the Hangman of all his Fees . I wish the [ rest ] would murder the Test , this is a Crime which none would excuse ; And the good Wives that lives in the West , hope's they shall see my die in my Shoes ; But they will not have their wishes , conquering Death does Chancellor seize ; Oh let them not Cavel , the Gout and the Gravel , will cozen the Hangman of all his Fees . Ever since I have lain in this Den , faith I have lost the Purse and the Mace , And am exposed abroad among Men , under the terms of shame and disgrace ; Some says hang me , others flee me , and twenty Death's more cruel then these , But here I am lying , upon my Bed dying , I'll cozen the Hangman of all his fees . William and Mary being Proclaimed , this like and Arrow went to my heart , I with a Favour straight was inflamed , fearing I soon should have my desert : Thousands waited for my Trial , a shameful end the Rabble would please , Though they do crave it , they never shall have it , I'll cozen the Hangman of all his fees . Now when I hear King William was Crowned , and that the loud-mouthed Cannons [ did roar , ] Presently I fell into a Swooned , never was man so daunted before ; And my Stony old Distemper , violently my Body did seize ; It's no feigned Story , but in this I glow [ ry ] to cozen the Hangman of all his fees . Some did declare I must lose my Head , others said Hanging would be my Doom , Because I for Honour had been misled , pleading always for Treacherous Room ; But faith they're disappointed , conquering Death my Spirits does seize , I'll make each a Liar , and straightways expire , so cozen the Hangman of all his fees . FINIS . Printed in the Year , 168 [ 9 ] 