The Triumph of Ireland [ : ] OR , King William is safe Arrival at Carrickfergus , on June the 14th . 1690. Where he was joyfully received by Valiant Duke Schombergh , with the rest of the Protestant Com - manders and Soldiers . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . H Ere's joyful good News we from Ireland bring , It's of the safe Landing of William our King ; Received by his Army of Protestant Boys , Whose Hearts are transported with Raptures of Joys : The Bells' they did ring , and the Cannons did roar , To welcome King William with Joy to the Shore . That Glory and Grandeur that there did appear , The Spirits of Protestant Soldiers did cheer ; For being no less than Three hundred Sail , Which moved on the Seas with a sweet pleasant Gale , While Bells' they did ring , and loud Cannons worser [ i ] worser roar , To welcome . etc When our mighty Monarch had quit the Main , He with a most Royal magnificent Train , Was met by the valiant Duke Schombergh on Land , Who strait had the Honour to kiss the King's Hand , The sweet Trumpets sounding , and Cannons did roar , To welcome King William with Joy to the Shore . His most Royal Presence in Ireland now , Hath seated true Joy there on every Brow , Through all the whole Army of Protestant Souls , Who drinking his Health there in full flowing Bowls , While Trumpets were sounding and Cannons did roar , To welcome , etc The Glory and Triumph of this happy day , [ S ] one chased the dark Clouds of all Sorrow away ; [ Ri ] ght noble Commanders with Knees to the Ground , They drank the King's Health , it went merrily round While Trumpets were sounding , and Cannons did roar , To welcome King William to the Irish shore . Both Colonels and Captains , nay Soldiers also , Their Loyal Obedience did heartily show , With loud Acclamations which made the Skies ring , They constantly crying out , God save the King : A Consort of Voices struck all in a strain , Great William shall conquer this Kingdom again . The French and the Tories did tremble and quake , At hearing the Triumph which then we did make ; But when our Great Monarch shall meet them in Field , Our Courage shall make them be forced to yield : King William he now do's in Ireland Reign , Whose Courage , etc The Name of King William that Nation alar [ ms ] His Presence is more than Ten thousand in Arms For while he his Forces shall valiantly Head , We'll fill the French and the Tories with dread , King William he now do's in Ireland Reign , Whose Courage , etc Like great Alexander wherever he goes He will prove a Terror and Dread to his Foes ; For with a strong Army the French he'll assail , Which will pour in Bullets like Showers of Hail , King William he now do's in Ireland Reign , Whose Courage , etc A Prince of more Valour the World never knew , And this is well known to the Catholic Crew , Which makes us poor Tries begin for to cry My dear Brother Teague ah ! where shall we fly ? King William he now do's in Ireland Reign , Whose Courage shall Conquer that Kingdom again . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Triumph of Ireland [ : ] OR , King William is safe Arrival at Carrickfergus , on June the 14th . 1690. Where he was joyfully received by Valiant Duke Schombergh , with the rest of the Protestant Com - manders and Soldiers . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . H Ere's joyful good News we from Ireland bring , It's of the safe Landing of William our King ; Received by his Army of Protestant Boys , Whose Hearts are transported with Raptures of Joys : The Bells' they did ring , and the Cannons did roar , To welcome King William with Joy to the Shore . That Glory and Grandeur that there did appear , The Spirits of Protestant Soldiers did cheer ; For being no less than Three hundred Sail , Which moved on the Seas with a sweet pleasant Gale , While Bells' they did ring , and loud Cannons worser [ i ] worser roar , To welcome . etc When our mighty Monarch had quit the Main , He with a most Royal magnificent Train , Was met by the valiant Duke Schombergh on Land , Who strait had the Honour to kiss the King's Hand , The sweet Trumpets sounding , and Cannons did roar , To welcome King William with Joy to the Shore . His most Royal Presence in Ireland now , Hath seated true Joy there on every Brow , Through all the whole Army of Protestant Souls , Who drinking his Health there in full flowing Bowls , While Trumpets were sounding and Cannons did roar , To welcome , etc The Glory and Triumph of this happy day , [ S ] one chased the dark Clouds of all Sorrow away ; [ Ri ] ght noble Commanders with Knees to the Ground , They drank the King's Health , it went merrily round While Trumpets were sounding , and Cannons did roar , To welcome King William to the Irish shore . Both Colonels and Captains , nay Soldiers also , Their Loyal Obedience did heartily show , With loud Acclamations which made the Skies ring , They constantly crying out , God save the King : A Consort of Voices struck all in a strain , Great William shall conquer this Kingdom again . The French and the Tories did tremble and quake , At hearing the Triumph which then we did make ; But when our Great Monarch shall meet them in Field , Our Courage shall make them be forced to yield : King William he now do's in Ireland Reign , Whose Courage , etc The Name of King William that Nation alar [ ms ] His Presence is more than Ten thousand in Arms For while he his Forces shall valiantly Head , We'll fill the French and the Tories with dread , King William he now do's in Ireland Reign , Whose Courage , etc Like great Alexander wherever he goes He will prove a Terror and Dread to his Foes ; For with a strong Army the French he'll assail , Which will pour in Bullets like Showers of Hail , King William he now do's in Ireland Reign , Whose Courage , etc A Prince of more Valour the World never knew , And this is well known to the Catholic Crew , Which makes us poor Tries begin for to cry My dear Brother Teague ah ! where shall we fly ? King William he now do's in Ireland Reign , Whose Courage shall Conquer that Kingdom again . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 