A NEW SONG , Of FATHER PFTRE , and the DEVIL . To the Tune of Flying from Olinda . Father Petre . P LUTO Arise : Great Master come , And if thou canst Avert the Doom That's falling on thy Spouse of Rome . Devil . Lo here I am , my faithful Slave , Tell the great Cause thou hast to crave , And my Assistance thou shall have . Father Petre . All our Proceedings at a stand , Our Foes have god the upper hand , And ruined all our wished Command : Yet I , what Priest could do have done , Kept them at distance from the Throne , And made clear Sense and Reason none . Devil . Great is the praise that you have wone , To have a Plot so well begun , By your ill Conduct quite undone : Does this become a Jesuit , Whom I with Pains and Care made fit To breed the mischiefs I beget . Did I for this one , with you join , To aid you in this great design , Whose Pride and malice equaled mine : One whose Ambition I believe , Enjoy's the fatal praise to Eve , Alone Forbidden Fruit to give . Father Petre . I needs must own your Aid was great to carry on the Holy Cheat ; But who alas ! can hinder Fate : All this is nothing but Discourse , We must do something now by Force , It's that must be our last Recourse . Did I the Popish Weapons draw Against Heretics , and against the Law ; Did I not keep the Great in Awe , While the Good Man I kept at the Oar : No Galley Slave ever Laboured more To make us Rich and himself Poor . Devil . You were too Hight , and Rid too Fast , Nor Hell , nor Room can praise your haste , Since those you Rid , their Rider cast ; Your Order wheresoever they came , Have set whole Kingdoms in a Flame : But here it seems your heat they Tame . Father Petre . Wherefore of me are these Complaints , Since you I Prayed to , in my Wants , All though it's true I Name'd the Saints . Our Council sometime has availed , I own about the French we failed , But on the Irish we prevailed . We must not Flag , nor fit down here , That would declare Remorse or Fear , Which never in Jesuits do appear . Direct my Conscience any way , What I shall Act , do you but say , the Devil take me I'll Obey . But I've some doubts , I would Impart , That much oppress my Tender Heart , Which you may Answer by your Art ; Tell first what Fate will strike me Dead , I dare not hope it'll be in Bed , That suits not with the Life I've led ? If Hanged and Quartered be the best , Make me a Saint and Martyr Blessed , With Holy Harcourt , and the rest ; Next Englands Fate pray to me Read , And who shall to the Throne Succeed , The English or Italian Breed . Devil . Thy own Fate thou hast guest at well , If Traitor , thou or Martyrs Fell , Thy Ballad to the World will tell . The Consequence of tother draw , From the Success of Great Nassaw , This said the Devil did withdraw . LONDON : Printed in the Year , 1689. A NEW SONG , Of FATHER PFTRE , and the DEVIL . To the Tune of Flying from Olinda . Father Petre . P LUTO Arise : Great Master come , And if thou canst Avert the Doom That's falling on thy Spouse of Rome . Devil . Lo here I am , my faithful Slave , Tell the great Cause thou hast to crave , And my Assistance thou shall have . Father Petre . All our Proceedings at a stand , Our Foes have god the upper hand , And ruined all our wished Command : Yet I , what Priest could do have done , Kept them at distance from the Throne , And made clear Sense and Reason none . Devil . Great is the praise that you have wone , To have a Plot so well begun , By your ill Conduct quite undone : Does this become a Jesuit , Whom I with Pains and Care made fit To breed the mischiefs I beget . Did I for this one , with you join , To aid you in this great design , Whose Pride and malice equaled mine : One whose Ambition I believe , Enjoy's the fatal praise to Eve , Alone Forbidden Fruit to give . Father Petre . I needs must own your Aid was great to carry on the Holy Cheat ; But who alas ! can hinder Fate : All this is nothing but Discourse , We must do something now by Force , It's that must be our last Recourse . Did I the Popish Weapons draw Against Heretics , and against the Law ; Did I not keep the Great in Awe , While the Good Man I kept at the Oar : No Galley Slave ever Laboured more To make us Rich and himself Poor . Devil . You were too Hight , and Rid too Fast , Nor Hell , nor Room can praise your haste , Since those you Rid , their Rider cast ; Your Order wheresoever they came , Have set whole Kingdoms in a Flame : But here it seems your heat they Tame . Father Petre . Wherefore of me are these Complaints , Since you I Prayed to , in my Wants , All though it's true I Name'd the Saints . Our Council sometime has availed , I own about the French we failed , But on the Irish we prevailed . We must not Flag , nor fit down here , That would declare Remorse or Fear , Which never in Jesuits do appear . Direct my Conscience any way , What I shall Act , do you but say , the Devil take me I'll Obey . But I've some doubts , I would Impart , That much oppress my Tender Heart , Which you may Answer by your Art ; Tell first what Fate will strike me Dead , I dare not hope it'll be in Bed , That suits not with the Life I've led ? If Hanged and Quartered be the best , Make me a Saint and Martyr Blessed , With Holy Harcourt , and the rest ; Next Englands Fate pray to me Read , And who shall to the Throne Succeed , The English or Italian Breed . Devil . Thy own Fate thou hast guest at well , If Traitor , thou or Martyrs Fell , Thy Ballad to the World will tell . The Consequence of tother draw , From the Success of Great Nassaw , This said the Devil did withdraw . LONDON : Printed in the Year , 1689. 