The Protestant's Jubilee : OR , A Farewell to Popery . Being and Excellent Cordial to Cheer a Protestant is Heart : Made of the Juice of and Orange . To the Tune of , The Touch of the Times . I . E Ngland rejoice , thy Succour is come , To rescue thee from the power of Rome : See how his Foes before him do fallen ; He draws no Sword , yet conquereth all : Heaven protects him , and guideth his hand , Behold with what Zeal he for us does stand ! He ventures his Fortune , and much does endure , To keep our Kingdom in peace and Secure . II No Man can withstand him , his power is great ; Heaven hath sent him to settle our State : His Intentions are just ; he does not intend , [ To ] spoil our Goods , but Religion defend . See how the Pope lears and hangs down his Head , He looks as sad as a Man that's half dead : He curses his Fate , since his projects did fail , And lears like a Dog that has burned his Tail . III . He'll punish our Foes for their underhand Tricks ; The Cross must be burned with the Crucifix : Their Saints cannot save them ; the Virgin is unkind , Saint Coleman is hanged , and the Devil is blind ; The Pope is of late grown Dog out of Doors ; Old Petres is scampered to France with his Whores ; But Poultney is caught , with the rest of that Crew , And Newgate and Tyburn does claim them as due . IV. Brave Orange and Army brought over the Se [ a ] , To rout all the Papists , and set us at ease : He loved us so , that to end our Strife , He ventured Fortune , nay , hazarded Life . If he had not come , we had all been undone , Our Nation with Popery was overrun : Our Laws had been lost , our Religion run down : The Priests would have ruled both Mitre and Crown . V. Let Papists pine , and Jesuits frown ; Their Religion , and Ambition , are together pulled down : We fear not their Fury , and hope for the day , To see the brave Orange ( in Justice ) bear sway : And let all his Foes admiring stand , To see the great Force of's invincible hand : He has Heaven to guard him , and strengthen his Arm , That all the Pope's power can do him no harm . VI . The dreaming old Chancellor , with his great Purse , Is in a bad case , and fears it'll be worse . He dreameth of nothing but Gallows and Rope , Which he has deserved , and will have it we hope . All People do hate him , in Country and Town , There's no Man does valve old Jeffrey is Frown . He always unjustly did deal in his Cause ; And to let in Popery dispensed with our Laws . VII . The Smell of the Orange offends the pope , And will send him , ever long , to Satan , we hope . France , the good Orange full sour will find ; The Juice may stand by , he'll choked with the rind . The Nuntio , who used the best of his Skill , And thought himself safe as a Thief in a Mill , Is now forced to scamper ( in private ) away , For he'd have been hanged had he ventured to stay . VIII . Then let us defend the brave Orange is Cause ; He came to restroe our Religion and Laws . We neither for Pope nor Papists will care ; And as for the French , let them come if they dare . Let Orange live long , and conquer his Foes , To make us all happy ; and vanquish all those , That hate our Religion , and bow to a Stock ; And make they to bow , to and Ax and a Block . Printed by H [ . ] Wallis in White-Friers . The Protestant's Jubilee : OR , A Farewell to Popery . Being and Excellent Cordial to Cheer a Protestant is Heart : Made of the Juice of and Orange . To the Tune of , The Touch of the Times . I . E Ngland rejoice , thy Succour is come , To rescue thee from the power of Rome : See how his Foes before him do fallen ; He draws no Sword , yet conquereth all : Heaven protects him , and guideth his hand , Behold with what Zeal he for us does stand ! He ventures his Fortune , and much does endure , To keep our Kingdom in peace and Secure . II No Man can withstand him , his power is great ; Heaven hath sent him to settle our State : His Intentions are just ; he does not intend , [ To ] spoil our Goods , but Religion defend . See how the Pope lears and hangs down his Head , He looks as sad as a Man that's half dead : He curses his Fate , since his projects did fail , And lears like a Dog that has burned his Tail . III . He'll punish our Foes for their underhand Tricks ; The Cross must be burned with the Crucifix : Their Saints cannot save them ; the Virgin is unkind , Saint Coleman is hanged , and the Devil is blind ; The Pope is of late grown Dog out of Doors ; Old Petres is scampered to France with his Whores ; But Poultney is caught , with the rest of that Crew , And Newgate and Tyburn does claim them as due . IV. Brave Orange and Army brought over the Se [ a ] , To rout all the Papists , and set us at ease : He loved us so , that to end our Strife , He ventured Fortune , nay , hazarded Life . If he had not come , we had all been undone , Our Nation with Popery was overrun : Our Laws had been lost , our Religion run down : The Priests would have ruled both Mitre and Crown . V. Let Papists pine , and Jesuits frown ; Their Religion , and Ambition , are together pulled down : We fear not their Fury , and hope for the day , To see the brave Orange ( in Justice ) bear sway : And let all his Foes admiring stand , To see the great Force of's invincible hand : He has Heaven to guard him , and strengthen his Arm , That all the Pope's power can do him no harm . VI . The dreaming old Chancellor , with his great Purse , Is in a bad case , and fears it'll be worse . He dreameth of nothing but Gallows and Rope , Which he has deserved , and will have it we hope . All People do hate him , in Country and Town , There's no Man does valve old Jeffrey is Frown . He always unjustly did deal in his Cause ; And to let in Popery dispensed with our Laws . VII . The Smell of the Orange offends the pope , And will send him , ever long , to Satan , we hope . France , the good Orange full sour will find ; The Juice may stand by , he'll choked with the rind . The Nuntio , who used the best of his Skill , And thought himself safe as a Thief in a Mill , Is now forced to scamper ( in private ) away , For he'd have been hanged had he ventured to stay . VIII . Then let us defend the brave Orange is Cause ; He came to restroe our Religion and Laws . We neither for Pope nor Papists will care ; And as for the French , let them come if they dare . Let Orange live long , and conquer his Foes , To make us all happy ; and vanquish all those , That hate our Religion , and bow to a Stock ; And make they to bow , to and Ax and a Block . Printed by H [ . ] Wallis in White-Friers . 