A NEW SONG Made in the Praise of the West of England . To the Tune of , The Protestant Prince ; or , Up the green Forest . U Unto West-Country men , These few lines I do pen ; [ In ] whose praise we will merrily sing , For your late Battle fought Hath you great honour brought , [ A ] and made your name famously ring . Then you Monmouth brave boys , who was robbed of your joys , [ A ] and as Rebels and Traitors since stood , Who in young Jemmys cause , And the rights of good laws , [ V ] entured fortune's with great loss of blood . Although Monmouth was gone , And had left you alone , Now and Orange did bravely advance , Who will stick close to you To confound the old Crew , And learn them a new Jig to dance . For your old plague and grudge , Who once was your Judge , Is close pri [ s ] over now in the Tower ; And when Parliament fit , He shall have a permit , Under Tyburn to swing a long hour , F Irst let Titus Oates , By all wishes and Votes , [ B ] e on Horseback with whip most complete For to show him a dance That shall make him to prance long Leadenhall-street to Newgate . And this being done , The next day let him run For inventing his new-fashioned Rear , From Newgate all along In the midst of the throng , Till he comes to the three-legged Mare . For it's pity , say I , By the Ax he should die , But his Lordship I hope you will torture , Cause to brave London still He hath shown his good will , In his taking away their old Charter . Then rejoice you brave West , From North unto East , From whose Country he hath wrought such a change ; Now your Honour does found , And your fame does abound with your prayers for the Prince of Orange . Whose Delivery great , Both in Church and in State From blind Popery hath set us all free ; For it was Gods own will Little blood for to spill , Let his Name for ever sanctified be . Now let all men adore This brave Prince that came over To preserve Penal Laws and the Test , With brave silver and gold As ever was told , To make good our old breach in the West . For our great God above , Out of mercy and love , Hath wrought us this Miracle strange [ , ] Who in due time hath sent By his own instrument His great Highness the Prince of Orange [ . ] Now with one accord Return thanks to the Lord , Be steadfast in mind , never change , For peter is Renown Is quite tumbled down , By his Highness the Prince of Orange . As our trade does abound , So our fame shall be crowned , like brave Stuckly that Clothworkers son For had we not stood to't With our brave Horse and Foot , Three Kingdoms had quite been undone . So to end this my Song , I do no body wrong , Then let West-country Protestants all , Drink round a found touch To this brave Prince & amp ; Dutch , Who redeemed us from slavery and thrall [ . ] Then fill up the Cup , And let's drink it all up , And the Papishes now we will swing , While Tyburn to their shame Is playing the old Game , God bless the King & amp ; the Prince of Orange . Printed for T. R . A NEW SONG Made in the Praise of the West of England . To the Tune of , The Protestant Prince ; or , Up the green Forest . U Unto West-Country men , These few lines I do pen ; [ In ] whose praise we will merrily sing , For your late Battle fought Hath you great honour brought , [ A ] and made your name famously ring . Then you Monmouth brave boys , who was robbed of your joys , [ A ] and as Rebels and Traitors since stood , Who in young Jemmys cause , And the rights of good laws , [ V ] entured fortune's with great loss of blood . Although Monmouth was gone , And had left you alone , Now and Orange did bravely advance , Who will stick close to you To confound the old Crew , And learn them a new Jig to dance . For your old plague and grudge , Who once was your Judge , Is close pri [ s ] over now in the Tower ; And when Parliament fit , He shall have a permit , Under Tyburn to swing a long hour , F Irst let Titus Oates , By all wishes and Votes , [ B ] e on Horseback with whip most complete For to show him a dance That shall make him to prance long Leadenhall-street to Newgate . And this being done , The next day let him run For inventing his new-fashioned Rear , From Newgate all along In the midst of the throng , Till he comes to the three-legged Mare . For it's pity , say I , By the Ax he should die , But his Lordship I hope you will torture , Cause to brave London still He hath shown his good will , In his taking away their old Charter . Then rejoice you brave West , From North unto East , From whose Country he hath wrought such a change ; Now your Honour does found , And your fame does abound with your prayers for the Prince of Orange . Whose Delivery great , Both in Church and in State From blind Popery hath set us all free ; For it was Gods own will Little blood for to spill , Let his Name for ever sanctified be . Now let all men adore This brave Prince that came over To preserve Penal Laws and the Test , With brave silver and gold As ever was told , To make good our old breach in the West . For our great God above , Out of mercy and love , Hath wrought us this Miracle strange [ , ] Who in due time hath sent By his own instrument His great Highness the Prince of Orange [ . ] Now with one accord Return thanks to the Lord , Be steadfast in mind , never change , For peter is Renown Is quite tumbled down , By his Highness the Prince of Orange . As our trade does abound , So our fame shall be crowned , like brave Stuckly that Clothworkers son For had we not stood to't With our brave Horse and Foot , Three Kingdoms had quite been undone . So to end this my Song , I do no body wrong , Then let West-country Protestants all , Drink round a found touch To this brave Prince & amp ; Dutch , Who redeemed us from slavery and thrall [ . ] Then fill up the Cup , And let's drink it all up , And the Papishes now we will swing , While Tyburn to their shame Is playing the old Game , God bless the King & amp ; the Prince of Orange . Printed for T. R. 