A NEW SONG OF THE Late Lord Chancellors Last Will and Testament . To the Tune of , Of all Delights the Earth does yield , etc G Reat Britain is agreed , I hear ; It puts me in a slavish Fear , The Senators will be sad to me , When for my Faults I judged will be . To make my Will , I think it's time , Before my Breath I do resign . Imprimis , To my Country dear , I do bequeathe a Mark a Year . That they may mark and bear in mind , In every Age what I designed , When I had god so near the Throne I thought the Day was all our own . Item , I bequeathe my Face , To he that cares not for Disgrace : And likewise I do bequeathe my Brains , To Plotters that does take great pains , Against the Law by damned Sedition , Defrauding Rights with Politician . My Soul unto the P open I give , To keep it chary while he lives ; To make himself a Drinking Cup , And with Confusion fill it up ; And let him drink the Devil's Health , 'Twas Liquour that I loved my self . My Ears , I do bequeathe they free , To Doctor Oates is Pillory , For they by right should had the place , While he , poor Man , boar the Disgrace , I used all my Skill and Art , To punish him with bitter Smart . And let some faithful Bearer carry , My Eyes unto our late Queen Marry , She had a Dimness in her Sighed , Or else she had seen old P etre is Spite : He led her in a Brake of Thorn , And ere he left her Grace forlorn . The Devil take my accursed Tongue , Which did my Soul and Body wrong ; 'Twas hanged with Instruments of Deceit , And at the end a Golden Bait. My silver Cord had such Delusion , Drawing the Nation to Confusion . My Heart I do bequeathe , with all My Lights and Liver , and my Gall , Unto some bloody minded Butcher , For I delighted much in Slaughter : L ong of my hanious Cruelness , There's many a Widow and Fatherless My Skin , I do give strict Command , That by some Tannar may be tanned : It'll serve to make the Devil a Sack , To carry P etres on his Back , That he may ride Hackney to Hell , The posture will become him well . Unto the Pope of Italy , I do bequeathe my Blood to He ; It'll serve instead of Claret Wine , Then let him have his fill of mine , For he loves Blood with all his Heart , Then let him take it for his part . My Arms and Legs and all the rest , I do bequeathe to savage Beasts ; It'll serve the Eions in the Tower , My loathsome Carcase to devour , Hoping my Soul will mount on high So ends my Will , now let me die Printed in the Year , 168 [ 9 ] . A NEW SONG OF THE Late Lord Chancellors Last Will and Testament . To the Tune of , Of all Delights the Earth does yield , etc G Reat Britain is agreed , I hear ; It puts me in a slavish Fear , The Senators will be sad to me , When for my Faults I judged will be . To make my Will , I think it's time , Before my Breath I do resign . Imprimis , To my Country dear , I do bequeathe a Mark a Year . That they may mark and bear in mind , In every Age what I designed , When I had god so near the Throne I thought the Day was all our own . Item , I bequeathe my Face , To he that cares not for Disgrace : And likewise I do bequeathe my Brains , To Plotters that does take great pains , Against the Law by damned Sedition , Defrauding Rights with Politician . My Soul unto the P open I give , To keep it chary while he lives ; To make himself a Drinking Cup , And with Confusion fill it up ; And let him drink the Devil's Health , 'Twas Liquour that I loved my self . My Ears , I do bequeathe they free , To Doctor Oates is Pillory , For they by right should had the place , While he , poor Man , boar the Disgrace , I used all my Skill and Art , To punish him with bitter Smart . And let some faithful Bearer carry , My Eyes unto our late Queen Marry , She had a Dimness in her Sighed , Or else she had seen old P etre is Spite : He led her in a Brake of Thorn , And ere he left her Grace forlorn . The Devil take my accursed Tongue , Which did my Soul and Body wrong ; 'Twas hanged with Instruments of Deceit , And at the end a Golden Bait. My silver Cord had such Delusion , Drawing the Nation to Confusion . My Heart I do bequeathe , with all My Lights and Liver , and my Gall , Unto some bloody minded Butcher , For I delighted much in Slaughter : L ong of my hanious Cruelness , There's many a Widow and Fatherless My Skin , I do give strict Command , That by some Tannar may be tanned : It'll serve to make the Devil a Sack , To carry P etres on his Back , That he may ride Hackney to Hell , The posture will become him well . Unto the Pope of Italy , I do bequeathe my Blood to He ; It'll serve instead of Claret Wine , Then let him have his fill of mine , For he loves Blood with all his Heart , Then let him take it for his part . My Arms and Legs and all the rest , I do bequeathe to savage Beasts ; It'll serve the Eions in the Tower , My loathsome Carcase to devour , Hoping my Soul will mount on high So ends my Will , now let me die Printed in the Year , 168 [ 9 ] . 