ROPERY Routed : OR , Father Petres is Farewell to London City : To the Tune of , Hark how the Thundering Cannons Roar . S Ee how the Romish Whore goes down , Posting wholesale out of Town , Because her Fate does shrewdly Frown , and Cross her Inclinations : Father Petres , and his Crew Of Jesuits , Monks , and Friars too , Must now pack up , and bid adieu to London is Corporation . Pox on all their Perjured Oaths , Which a Zealous Churchman loathes , Are they not Wolves in Sheeps Clothes , that Lurk in e'ry Station , To Trappan the Innocent , And hatch a Hellish Discontent : Let us then with one consent , dismiss them from our Nation . When I saw them first grow Bold , I thought the Proverb true of old , That they ran too fast to hold , their damned Insinuation , Now their prince Dispensing Power , Lies bleeding in the Tower , Cursing of the Fatal Hour of his first Procreation . Now that Vizard knows full well , Himself to be a Bird of Hell , Inhumanely thus to Rebel against his Habitation : But ever this Hypocrite shall pass , We'll bring his Crimes for Looking-Glass , To see himself the merest Ass of all the World's Creation . Welcome was brave Orange here , As it plainly does appear , Who delivered us from Fear of Popish Usurpation ; Who when we were in great Surprise , Preserved us from our Enemies , And all the damned Conspiracies , of Room is Assassination . Was there such a Trick ever seen , As hath lately acted been , By their Father's , and the Q ----- n , to gull our English Nation ? But their juggling up that Brat , From we know not who nor what , Will be proved ; nay , worse than that of Transubstantiation . Monsieur now had best take heed , For his Expeditious speed , In Helping us , ever we had need Of his Dissimulation ; lest in Requital of his Care , We send his Knives , and some to spare , And bring Le Bougra in for share of's Cursed Assignation . Well , I'll say no more ; but see ( True Protestants where ever you be ) You come not near such Villainy , nor grand Equivocation ; Ever long I hope our Parliament , Will rid that Superstitious Scent From us , that we may rest Content , each in his proper Station . Printed in the Year 1689 . ROPERY Routed : OR , Father Petres is Farewell to London City : To the Tune of , Hark how the Thundering Cannons Roar . S Ee how the Romish Whore goes down , Posting wholesale out of Town , Because her Fate does shrewdly Frown , and Cross her Inclinations : Father Petres , and his Crew Of Jesuits , Monks , and Friars too , Must now pack up , and bid adieu to London is Corporation . Pox on all their Perjured Oaths , Which a Zealous Churchman loathes , Are they not Wolves in Sheeps Clothes , that Lurk in e'ry Station , To Trappan the Innocent , And hatch a Hellish Discontent : Let us then with one consent , dismiss them from our Nation . When I saw them first grow Bold , I thought the Proverb true of old , That they ran too fast to hold , their damned Insinuation , Now their prince Dispensing Power , Lies bleeding in the Tower , Cursing of the Fatal Hour of his first Procreation . Now that Vizard knows full well , Himself to be a Bird of Hell , Inhumanely thus to Rebel against his Habitation : But ever this Hypocrite shall pass , We'll bring his Crimes for Looking-Glass , To see himself the merest Ass of all the World's Creation . Welcome was brave Orange here , As it plainly does appear , Who delivered us from Fear of Popish Usurpation ; Who when we were in great Surprise , Preserved us from our Enemies , And all the damned Conspiracies , of Room is Assassination . Was there such a Trick ever seen , As hath lately acted been , By their Father's , and the Q ----- n , to gull our English Nation ? But their juggling up that Brat , From we know not who nor what , Will be proved ; nay , worse than that of Transubstantiation . Monsieur now had best take heed , For his Expeditious speed , In Helping us , ever we had need Of his Dissimulation ; lest in Requital of his Care , We send his Knives , and some to spare , And bring Le Bougra in for share of's Cursed Assignation . Well , I'll say no more ; but see ( True Protestants where ever you be ) You come not near such Villainy , nor grand Equivocation ; Ever long I hope our Parliament , Will rid that Superstitious Scent From us , that we may rest Content , each in his proper Station . Printed in the Year 1689 . 