SPORT upon SPORT ; Or , The JACOBITE tossed in a Blanket : TOGETHER With his Ingenious Confession , and Public Recantation . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . I Am a poor Jacobite now in distress , Who wished for Old Lewis ; but nevertheless Afford me some pity , consider my cries , And look on my sorrowful watery eyes : In all our strange projects , alas ! we are crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . O let our Friend , Lucifer , now be accursed , He has like a Villain been false to his trust , He led us like Bears by the Nose in a string , Declaring French Cutthroats should come in the Spring ; But he is a Liar , that project is crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed , A Plot we invented , in hope's to prevail , The French with their Fleet likewise hoist up Sail , Which made us all proud of the Jacobite name , Concluding we had been Cocksure of the Game : But in chosen Designs we were plaguely crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . When ever we met with our caballing Crew , For fear of the Beadles and Constables too ; We all flocked together , like Owls in the dark , Of e'ry Transaction to make a remark : But all our [ De ] signs they were plaguely crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . What Cups of Confusion among us went round , While some of us bent our bore Knees to the ground , So Zealous we was for the Infidel Cause , That we could destroy both Religion and Laws : But we in those projects were plaguely crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . Although I was born of a Protestant Raze , Believe me , as sure as I'm tossed in this place , The French Yoke and Fetters I'ld never refuse , Beside I'm in love with their dear wooden Shoes : Now seeking for which , we are plaguely crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . We had but three Friends to perform this great Work , Which was our dear Devil , French King , and the Turk ; And these are all worsted both by Sea and Land , I fear that their Empires does tottering stand : In this great Design they are cursedly crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . Almost to the Skies there they toss me amain , And as I come down still they cant me again , The which puts me into a sad stinking fear , Have pity upon a poor Jacobite here : For that little Sense which I had I have lost , While I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . Good People he pleased to Pardon me now , And as I'm a Man , here I solemnly vow ; The French I'll forsake , and the Jacobites too , Likewise to King William prove Loyal and True : Pray let not my Senses be utterly lost , While I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . I'll do what I can my Late Friends to persuade To leave off their Cabals and old Plotting Trade , And turn to King William ; pray pardon me then Show mercy to me as you are Gentlemen : My Reason and Senses I have almost lost , While I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. BackSPORT upon SPORT ; Or , The JACOBITE tossed in a Blanket : TOGETHER With his Ingenious Confession , and Public Recantation . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . I Am a poor Jacobite now in distress , Who wished for Old Lewis ; but nevertheless Afford me some pity , consider my cries , And look on my sorrowful watery eyes : In all our strange projects , alas ! we are crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . O let our Friend , Lucifer , now be accursed , He has like a Villain been false to his trust , He led us like Bears by the Nose in a string , Declaring French Cutthroats should come in the Spring ; But he is a Liar , that project is crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed , A Plot we invented , in hope's to prevail , The French with their Fleet likewise hoist up Sail , Which made us all proud of the Jacobite name , Concluding we had been Cocksure of the Game : But in chosen Designs we were plaguely crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . When ever we met with our caballing Crew , For fear of the Beadles and Constables too ; We all flocked together , like Owls in the dark , Of e'ry Transaction to make a remark : But all our [ De ] signs they were plaguely crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . What Cups of Confusion among us went round , While some of us bent our bore Knees to the ground , So Zealous we was for the Infidel Cause , That we could destroy both Religion and Laws : But we in those projects were plaguely crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . Although I was born of a Protestant Raze , Believe me , as sure as I'm tossed in this place , The French Yoke and Fetters I'ld never refuse , Beside I'm in love with their dear wooden Shoes : Now seeking for which , we are plaguely crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . We had but three Friends to perform this great Work , Which was our dear Devil , French King , and the Turk ; And these are all worsted both by Sea and Land , I fear that their Empires does tottering stand : In this great Design they are cursedly crossed , And I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . Almost to the Skies there they toss me amain , And as I come down still they cant me again , The which puts me into a sad stinking fear , Have pity upon a poor Jacobite here : For that little Sense which I had I have lost , While I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . Good People he pleased to Pardon me now , And as I'm a Man , here I solemnly vow ; The French I'll forsake , and the Jacobites too , Likewise to King William prove Loyal and True : Pray let not my Senses be utterly lost , While I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . I'll do what I can my Late Friends to persuade To leave off their Cabals and old Plotting Trade , And turn to King William ; pray pardon me then Show mercy to me as you are Gentlemen : My Reason and Senses I have almost lost , While I like a Dog in a Blanket am tossed . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back 