Great and Happy News FOR ENGLAND , OR , The Defeat of the Irish Army by King WILLIAM , in a Mortal Battle near Dublin , with the Account of the Fatal Loss , etc To the Tune of , The Liggan Water . LEt the Nations now revive , English Arms in Ireland thrive ; Great King WILLIAM with his Thunder , Makes the Tories truckle under , And does disappoint them still , While his powerful Bullets kill . For Duke Berkwick he is dead , And all the Irish from us fled . The Mighty Warrior though he's lost , The Papists great Designs are crossed ; His Valour through the World is famed ; And he Renowned where ever he's named : Valour will it self out live , Fame of Valour will survive , To give him then his due , let all Say that we did our Champion call . On the Mortal Plain they fought , Where our Cause the Triumph wrought , Best of Causes gained the day , And Popery it did dismay : For Tyrconnel he is slave Upon the fatal Irish Plain ; And great King William he comes on , Till our proud foes are quite undone . Retreating from his Arms they fled , Our Courage filled them full of Dread , Mighty S chomberg still in Arms , Feared not Battles nor Alarms : In Camp from Infancy was bred , His Courage nothing ever could dread ; By base Surprise some say he fell , Yet Victory he did foretell . His Valour Monsieur did control , And let the Tyrant know his Soul Could not from a Prince be free , That Protestants gave Liberty : And though in Fields of War defied , His Courage through the World was tried , Marshal of haughty France he stood , Till that rash Monarch dived in Blood . Of Protestants to urge his sway , And make the wretched him obey ; Great Walker's fate with him we join , Though something and Inferior Line ; Thy Name great Walker never shall die , Your either Fame shall reach the Sky ; The Bloody fight no death can give , Here and hereafter you shall live . When our loud Thunder on the shore , To F rance's terror loud shall roar , The Fates shall pay them back again Those Lives that by surprise were slave ; The kinder Powers our King defend , Till dismal War shall make and end ; And let the Mighty Heroes rest In Honour's Bed , by Fame possessed . Junes second gave the fatal blow , Great Dublin's Walls at it did bow ; The Fatal doom of Sword and fire , They gave the Frenchmen their due hire : Proud Lewis sweated when he knew King William gave his Men their endue , And though some great Commanders fell , Yet dying , were revenged well . Our Foes full many breathed their last , And Numbers on the ground were cast ; The Kingdom now we claim our own , The Hope's of all our foes are gone ; Fear not then brave Boys but run , The Triumph it comes speedy on ; King William's fortune it does rise , And we our foes shall all despise . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . Great and Happy News FOR ENGLAND , OR , The Defeat of the Irish Army by King WILLIAM , in a Mortal Battle near Dublin , with the Account of the Fatal Loss , etc To the Tune of , The Liggan Water . LEt the Nations now revive , English Arms in Ireland thrive ; Great King WILLIAM with his Thunder , Makes the Tories truckle under , And does disappoint them still , While his powerful Bullets kill . For Duke Berkwick he is dead , And all the Irish from us fled . The Mighty Warrior though he's lost , The Papists great Designs are crossed ; His Valour through the World is famed ; And he Renowned where ever he's named : Valour will it self out live , Fame of Valour will survive , To give him then his due , let all Say that we did our Champion call . On the Mortal Plain they fought , Where our Cause the Triumph wrought , Best of Causes gained the day , And Popery it did dismay : For Tyrconnel he is slave Upon the fatal Irish Plain ; And great King William he comes on , Till our proud foes are quite undone . Retreating from his Arms they fled , Our Courage filled them full of Dread , Mighty S chomberg still in Arms , Feared not Battles nor Alarms : In Camp from Infancy was bred , His Courage nothing ever could dread ; By base Surprise some say he fell , Yet Victory he did foretell . His Valour Monsieur did control , And let the Tyrant know his Soul Could not from a Prince be free , That Protestants gave Liberty : And though in Fields of War defied , His Courage through the World was tried , Marshal of haughty France he stood , Till that rash Monarch dived in Blood . Of Protestants to urge his sway , And make the wretched him obey ; Great Walker's fate with him we join , Though something and Inferior Line ; Thy Name great Walker never shall die , Your either Fame shall reach the Sky ; The Bloody fight no death can give , Here and hereafter you shall live . When our loud Thunder on the shore , To F rance's terror loud shall roar , The Fates shall pay them back again Those Lives that by surprise were slave ; The kinder Powers our King defend , Till dismal War shall make and end ; And let the Mighty Heroes rest In Honour's Bed , by Fame possessed . Junes second gave the fatal blow , Great Dublin's Walls at it did bow ; The Fatal doom of Sword and fire , They gave the Frenchmen their due hire : Proud Lewis sweated when he knew King William gave his Men their endue , And though some great Commanders fell , Yet dying , were revenged well . Our Foes full many breathed their last , And Numbers on the ground were cast ; The Kingdom now we claim our own , The Hope's of all our foes are gone ; Fear not then brave Boys but run , The Triumph it comes speedy on ; King William's fortune it does rise , And we our foes shall all despise . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . 