A Brief Touch of the Irish Wars : From the S iege of Londonderry to the Surrender of Drogheda , Dublin , Waterford , and ma - nigh other strong Forts and Castles . Written by a Private Centinel , who was and Eyewitness to those Transactions . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long , etc Licensed according to Order . TO He French and the Tories are all in Distress , While Gracious K. William is Crowned with success , He first having routed them all in the field , The Cities and Castles were forced to yield , For fear that the Walls to the ground we should lay , Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . Last Summer the Rebels could swagger and boast , That came with the strength of a Catholic Host , Against Londonderry with Fire and Ball , And threatened the final Destruction of all : Yet this Valiant City did show them fair Play ; Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . When under those Walls many Months they had lain , Where French-men and Rebels in hundreds were slave ; At length they were forced their Siege to give over , As soon as fresh Forces approached the Shore : The F rench and the Tories they all ran away ; Thus Protestant Soldiers shall carry the day . As soon as our Forces were landed , brave Boys , I [ tO ] daunted the F rench , and the Irish Dear-Joys ; Thus brave Carrickfergus we soon did obtain , The Cause of King William he vowed to maintain , Against that fair Castle our Cannons did play , Till Protestant Soldiers had carried the day . At length the wet Winter began to draw near , That we in the Field could no longer appear , But waited the happy return of the Spring , When gracious King William fresh forces did bring ; And still as he Marched , his F oes ran away ; Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . Our Drums beatrice a March , and the Trumpets did found This Noise did our Enemies clearly confound , The Rebels still crying , By Chreest we're undone , King William is coming , Ah! where shall I run ? In horrid Confusion they scamper away ; Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . At the River Boyne they would then tack about , In order to show themselves valiant and stout ; The F rench Horse and Foot , and the Tories likewise ; But true English Courage did soon them surprise : For like Men Undaunted we entered the Fray ; Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . Through Fire and Water our March we did make , His Courage did cause the poor Tories to quake ; They seeing we feared no danger at all , But marched in Contempt of their Powder and Ball , At length we fell on and the Rebels gave way ; Thus Protestant Soldiers they carry the day . Thus having received a taste of their Doom , There is but few Cities or Forts will presume To hold out , against a Great Monarch of Fame , Whose Triumph and Glory the World will proclaim , They know if they do , the loud Cannons shall play ; For Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . We hope in short time the whole Kingdom to clear , And make the proud F rench wish they never came here ; Their Glory and Honour is laid in the Dust , In vain the poor Tories in Lewis did trust : They're glad for to scour and scamper away ; The Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. BackA Brief Touch of the Irish Wars : From the S iege of Londonderry to the Surrender of Drogheda , Dublin , Waterford , and ma - nigh other strong Forts and Castles . Written by a Private Centinel , who was and Eyewitness to those Transactions . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long , etc Licensed according to Order . TO He French and the Tories are all in Distress , While Gracious K. William is Crowned with success , He first having routed them all in the field , The Cities and Castles were forced to yield , For fear that the Walls to the ground we should lay , Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . Last Summer the Rebels could swagger and boast , That came with the strength of a Catholic Host , Against Londonderry with Fire and Ball , And threatened the final Destruction of all : Yet this Valiant City did show them fair Play ; Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . When under those Walls many Months they had lain , Where French-men and Rebels in hundreds were slave ; At length they were forced their Siege to give over , As soon as fresh Forces approached the Shore : The F rench and the Tories they all ran away ; Thus Protestant Soldiers shall carry the day . As soon as our Forces were landed , brave Boys , I [ tO ] daunted the F rench , and the Irish Dear-Joys ; Thus brave Carrickfergus we soon did obtain , The Cause of King William he vowed to maintain , Against that fair Castle our Cannons did play , Till Protestant Soldiers had carried the day . At length the wet Winter began to draw near , That we in the Field could no longer appear , But waited the happy return of the Spring , When gracious King William fresh forces did bring ; And still as he Marched , his F oes ran away ; Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . Our Drums beatrice a March , and the Trumpets did found This Noise did our Enemies clearly confound , The Rebels still crying , By Chreest we're undone , King William is coming , Ah! where shall I run ? In horrid Confusion they scamper away ; Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . At the River Boyne they would then tack about , In order to show themselves valiant and stout ; The F rench Horse and Foot , and the Tories likewise ; But true English Courage did soon them surprise : For like Men Undaunted we entered the Fray ; Thus Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . Through Fire and Water our March we did make , His Courage did cause the poor Tories to quake ; They seeing we feared no danger at all , But marched in Contempt of their Powder and Ball , At length we fell on and the Rebels gave way ; Thus Protestant Soldiers they carry the day . Thus having received a taste of their Doom , There is but few Cities or Forts will presume To hold out , against a Great Monarch of Fame , Whose Triumph and Glory the World will proclaim , They know if they do , the loud Cannons shall play ; For Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . We hope in short time the whole Kingdom to clear , And make the proud F rench wish they never came here ; Their Glory and Honour is laid in the Dust , In vain the poor Tories in Lewis did trust : They're glad for to scour and scamper away ; The Protestant Soldiers still carry the day . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back 