The Soldiers Prayers for King WILLIAMS Good Success in Ireland Over His Enemies . Tune , Let Caesar Live long , etc Licensed according to Order . O Ur gracious King William is going over the Main , God give him a blessing to return back again , And make the proud Papists submit to his Will , That Protestants Blood never more may be spilled : Then the Heavens protect our Sovereign King , And send him safe over to England again . The brave Noble hearts with our King they will go , And will venture their lives to bring down that great Foe ; Proud Lewis of France they will make him to fear , When our gracious King William he then shall come there . Then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , And send him safe over to England again . Methinks I do hear our gracious King say , Fight on my brave Boys and never run away , While I have one drop of Blood I will fight , To maintain the Laws of Old Englands right : Against all my foes that dare me withstand , And caused me to come now from fair England . Come all you brave Soldiers with courage let's go , To fight for the King , and to bring down his foe , Let it never he said that English men dare not fight , To maintain the cause of the Protestants right : Then Boys let us fight with our Courage so free , To pull down the French and the pride of popery . The brave Commanders that in Ireland be , Pray God give them power over their Enemy ; That God would be pleased unto the land bring , Peace , Joy and Triumph , under William our King . then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc How many poor Souls has in Ireland been lost , And all by the Papists they have been crossed , Tyrconnel that Irish Cursed Hellish Hound , Some thousands poor Protestants brought to the ground , then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc With our Swords in our hands brave Boys we will go , And fully resolved to prove Romes great foe ; Great James we will make him for to rue the day , That ever in England he first boar the sway : To let up Maß-houses , confusion did bring , But the Heavens long prosper great William our King . At the Head of our Army King William will stand , Who fights for Religion , and the Laws of the land , Be but true to the King , and he will stand by you , To give all the French and the Irish their due : then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc When King William comes there how the Drums they will play , We'll fight till we die ever we will run away ; Against all those Papists that will not yield , We'll die on the spot before We'll loose the field ; Then the heavens protect our Sovereign King , And send him safe over to England again . London printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield near the hospital gate . The Soldiers Prayers for King WILLIAMS Good Success in Ireland Over His Enemies . Tune , Let Caesar Live long , etc Licensed according to Order . O Ur gracious King William is going over the Main , God give him a blessing to return back again , And make the proud Papists submit to his Will , That Protestants Blood never more may be spilled : Then the Heavens protect our Sovereign King , And send him safe over to England again . The brave Noble hearts with our King they will go , And will venture their lives to bring down that great Foe ; Proud Lewis of France they will make him to fear , When our gracious King William he then shall come there . Then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , And send him safe over to England again . Methinks I do hear our gracious King say , Fight on my brave Boys and never run away , While I have one drop of Blood I will fight , To maintain the Laws of Old Englands right : Against all my foes that dare me withstand , And caused me to come now from fair England . Come all you brave Soldiers with courage let's go , To fight for the King , and to bring down his foe , Let it never he said that English men dare not fight , To maintain the cause of the Protestants right : Then Boys let us fight with our Courage so free , To pull down the French and the pride of popery . The brave Commanders that in Ireland be , Pray God give them power over their Enemy ; That God would be pleased unto the land bring , Peace , Joy and Triumph , under William our King . then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc How many poor Souls has in Ireland been lost , And all by the Papists they have been crossed , Tyrconnel that Irish Cursed Hellish Hound , Some thousands poor Protestants brought to the ground , then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc With our Swords in our hands brave Boys we will go , And fully resolved to prove Romes great foe ; Great James we will make him for to rue the day , That ever in England he first boar the sway : To let up Maß-houses , confusion did bring , But the Heavens long prosper great William our King . At the Head of our Army King William will stand , Who fights for Religion , and the Laws of the land , Be but true to the King , and he will stand by you , To give all the French and the Irish their due : then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc When King William comes there how the Drums they will play , We'll fight till we die ever we will run away ; Against all those Papists that will not yield , We'll die on the spot before We'll loose the field ; Then the heavens protect our Sovereign King , And send him safe over to England again . London printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield near the hospital gate . 