THE Irish Rebels Routed : OR , A brief Relation of the Victorious Conquest by the Protestants over the French & amp ; Irish at CAVAN : To the great Encouragement of the Protestant Party , as it was sent in a Let - ter from a Soldier in Ireland to his Love in London . To the Tune of Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order . LET Loyal Subject's now attend , To the Lines that here are penned , Which lately came from Ireland , As you in brief shall understand . A Soldier writing to his Love , He said , My Dear and Turtle-Dove , Though in this Kingdom Thousands fell , Yet still I am alive and well . But here's one thing I do declare , By us the Rebels routed were ; For in a sharp and bloody fray , We Protestants did win the day . They manner how we did proceed , To make those Romish Rebels bleed ; In brief to you I will unfold , Brave noble , valiant Hearts of Gold . From Belturbat did march away All Night , till Morning break of day ; Whereas by chance we did espy Four thousand of the Enemy . The Duke of Berwick did Command Those Rebels which could never stand Against true Protestants of Might , Who did with Resolution Fight . Our noble brave Commanders cried , Charge , and give Fire , let the Pride Of French and Tories blasted be , While you are Crowned with Victory . Courageous Lads , Fight , Kill , and Wound , And give them not and Inch of Ground , But send them Shots like showers of Hail , The which will soon their Courage quail . This so encouraged every Man , That we like Lyons straight fell on ; Our Guns did then like Thunder Roar , While Teagues lay reeking in their Gore . Both sharp and hight was the Dispute , While we the Tories did salute ; And Berwick is horse under him killed , At which he was with Horror filled . The sighed of this did so dismay His forces , that they ran away , As swift as any nimble Deer , While we pursued them in the Rear . Three hundred Rebels there we slew , With many chief Commanders too ; Our Conquering Sword did reap the Fie [ ld ] , And made the Proud and Haughty yield . We Protestants the Lord did bless , With so much happy true Success , That scarce full Twenty Men in all Did in this Expedition fallen . No sooner we the Coast had cleared , But we our Hearts with Liquour cheered , In drinking Healths to that great King , Whose fame shall through Europe Ring . To Head his Army he will come , Who is the Pride of Christendom , And for whose sake we are all agreed , To Fight while we have drop to bleed . When as King William he comes over , The News will spread from shore to shore , But when his foes do hear his fame , They'll tremble at his Royal Name . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Irish Rebels Routed : OR , A brief Relation of the Victorious Conquest by the Protestants over the French & amp ; Irish at CAVAN : To the great Encouragement of the Protestant Party , as it was sent in a Let - ter from a Soldier in Ireland to his Love in London . To the Tune of Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order . LET Loyal Subject's now attend , To the Lines that here are penned , Which lately came from Ireland , As you in brief shall understand . A Soldier writing to his Love , He said , My Dear and Turtle-Dove , Though in this Kingdom Thousands fell , Yet still I am alive and well . But here's one thing I do declare , By us the Rebels routed were ; For in a sharp and bloody fray , We Protestants did win the day . They manner how we did proceed , To make those Romish Rebels bleed ; In brief to you I will unfold , Brave noble , valiant Hearts of Gold . From Belturbat did march away All Night , till Morning break of day ; Whereas by chance we did espy Four thousand of the Enemy . The Duke of Berwick did Command Those Rebels which could never stand Against true Protestants of Might , Who did with Resolution Fight . Our noble brave Commanders cried , Charge , and give Fire , let the Pride Of French and Tories blasted be , While you are Crowned with Victory . Courageous Lads , Fight , Kill , and Wound , And give them not and Inch of Ground , But send them Shots like showers of Hail , The which will soon their Courage quail . This so encouraged every Man , That we like Lyons straight fell on ; Our Guns did then like Thunder Roar , While Teagues lay reeking in their Gore . Both sharp and hight was the Dispute , While we the Tories did salute ; And Berwick is horse under him killed , At which he was with Horror filled . The sighed of this did so dismay His forces , that they ran away , As swift as any nimble Deer , While we pursued them in the Rear . Three hundred Rebels there we slew , With many chief Commanders too ; Our Conquering Sword did reap the Fie [ ld ] , And made the Proud and Haughty yield . We Protestants the Lord did bless , With so much happy true Success , That scarce full Twenty Men in all Did in this Expedition fallen . No sooner we the Coast had cleared , But we our Hearts with Liquour cheered , In drinking Healths to that great King , Whose fame shall through Europe Ring . To Head his Army he will come , Who is the Pride of Christendom , And for whose sake we are all agreed , To Fight while we have drop to bleed . When as King William he comes over , The News will spread from shore to shore , But when his foes do hear his fame , They'll tremble at his Royal Name . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 