The English-mans Advice , That all may leave to live in since , and truly Worship God , lest he in Anger do begin , to scourge them with his Rod . To the Tune of , Young Phoen . M Ourn England , mourn , like one forlorn , thy Sins for Vengeance cry , And have approached to the Ears of him who lives on High : Who hath forwarned thee many times , [ tO ] hy Messengers most strange , But thou wertenberg of a stubborn heart , and would not from since change . Rememember how in Sixty-five , a Comet did appear , To many Thousands then alive , that Buried were that year : And when the hand of God was stayed , the Pestilence quite gone , The thing that made them soar afraid , was little thought upon . O wicked stubbornhearted Souls , that do from mercy fly , You'll cause your selves for to condole , by your Iniquity : And then the Lord above was moved , by these your stubborn tricks , So he in anger you reproved , by Fire in Sixty-six . Which in a moment did destroy the Glory of the Nation , Your City , pride , and greatest joy , was turned to Desolation : Beside the Sword upon you came , and strangers did invade you , For all the Plague and fiery flame , none could from since persuade you . And when the Lord above did see nothing could you reclaim , A bloody plot Rome did decree , to Papists lasting shame : The Fiends of Hell did then assist , this plot for to contrive , They thought for to do what they list , not one to leave alive That would not to their Jools vow , nor worship what they pleased , Through mercy we escaped them , though the Land is still Diseased And pestered with a Romish Crew , whose actions are unjust , With them we know not what to do , for them we dare not trust . But hope that now our Parliament , will strive to ease our pain , And banish all our Discontent , wherein we do remain : O let the Heavens protect and keep , his Majesty from harm , Who now is with his Parliament , the Papist to alarm . And since with them he does agree , as we desire he may , Then happy times we sure shall see , for which we long did pray : Let every Loyal Subject then , to Heaven send his petition , That God would bless poor English-men , and pity their Condition . FINIS . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . The English-mans Advice , That all may leave to live in since , and truly Worship God , lest he in Anger do begin , to scourge them with his Rod . To the Tune of , Young Phoen . M Ourn England , mourn , like one forlorn , thy Sins for Vengeance cry , And have approached to the Ears of him who lives on High : Who hath forwarned thee many times , [ tO ] hy Messengers most strange , But thou wertenberg of a stubborn heart , and would not from since change . Rememember how in Sixty-five , a Comet did appear , To many Thousands then alive , that Buried were that year : And when the hand of God was stayed , the Pestilence quite gone , The thing that made them soar afraid , was little thought upon . O wicked stubbornhearted Souls , that do from mercy fly , You'll cause your selves for to condole , by your Iniquity : And then the Lord above was moved , by these your stubborn tricks , So he in anger you reproved , by Fire in Sixty-six . Which in a moment did destroy the Glory of the Nation , Your City , pride , and greatest joy , was turned to Desolation : Beside the Sword upon you came , and strangers did invade you , For all the Plague and fiery flame , none could from since persuade you . And when the Lord above did see nothing could you reclaim , A bloody plot Rome did decree , to Papists lasting shame : The Fiends of Hell did then assist , this plot for to contrive , They thought for to do what they list , not one to leave alive That would not to their Jools vow , nor worship what they pleased , Through mercy we escaped them , though the Land is still Diseased And pestered with a Romish Crew , whose actions are unjust , With them we know not what to do , for them we dare not trust . But hope that now our Parliament , will strive to ease our pain , And banish all our Discontent , wherein we do remain : O let the Heavens protect and keep , his Majesty from harm , Who now is with his Parliament , the Papist to alarm . And since with them he does agree , as we desire he may , Then happy times we sure shall see , for which we long did pray : Let every Loyal Subject then , to Heaven send his petition , That God would bless poor English-men , and pity their Condition . FINIS . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . 