The Warlike Monarch . OR , King William's Princely Courage , and Resolution , for Reducing the King - dom of Ireland in his own Person by his Care and Conduct . To the Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . LET true hearted Subject's now merrily sing The Glory and Fame of a Protestant King , Whose Courage and Valour the World cannot stain , He crossed the Ocean our Rights to regain ; And now he's resolved to venture once more To fight the proud Foe , on the Irish shore : King William in Person right valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . His Presence will Valour and Courage create , Through all the whole Army ; no Monarch of late Was ever endued with such Courage as he , [ As ] Head of his force in field he will be : True Protestant Boys , that will fight by his side , In order to pull down the Catholic Pride : King William in Person right valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . All things for the War are preparing with speed , And Army we have , Boys , will make them to bleed ; Under good King William they'll win Day , or die , They scorn from the Face of a Tory to fly , But charge and discharge from the front to the Rear , Until the whole Kingdom of Rebels they clear : Our Monarch in Person he valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer our Foes . [ ? [ Kingdom ] [ ? ] [ ? ] [ ? ] [ ? ] [ ? ] [ I ] [ hope ] , We know that the Rebels will tremble for fear , As soon as the Name of King William they hear , And that with and Army he enters the Land , Those Rebels will never be able to stand ; And therefore King William in Person he goes , [ God ] grant [ him ] a Blessing to conquer his Foes . The noble Commanders , with Protestant Boys , Will soon rout the French and the Irish Dear-joys ; In Battle the sweet silver Trumpet shall found , The Drums they shall beatrice , and the Canons resound ; With fire and Sword , Boys , we them will pursue , Until we have routed the rebellious Crew King William in Person his Life will expose , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . The stout armed Troops first shall enter the Fray , While flourishing Colours in Field we'll display ; The Canons shall roar , and the Smoke then arise , Whose thick cloudy Vapours shall darken the Skies ; The French shall the fury of Protestants feel , We'll chase them with Swords , Boys , of tempered steel : King William in Person he valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . The Protestant Army of Fame and Renown , Will venture their Lives to pull Popery down , As having King William and Schomberg in Field , Who never did yet to and Enemy yield : Renowned stout Soldiers may glory this Spring , That shall be led on by a Protestant King : May Angels still guard him wherever he goes , To vanquish and conquer his insolent Foes . The Irish shore must the Theatre be , For acting this bloody and sharp Tragedy , King William himself will espousing our cause , Preserving our Lives with Religion and Laws : Let those that the Protestant Faith do profess , Afford him their Prayers , for they can do no less : Since in his own Person he valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Warlike Monarch . OR , King William's Princely Courage , and Resolution , for Reducing the King - dom of Ireland in his own Person by his Care and Conduct . To the Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . LET true hearted Subject's now merrily sing The Glory and Fame of a Protestant King , Whose Courage and Valour the World cannot stain , He crossed the Ocean our Rights to regain ; And now he's resolved to venture once more To fight the proud Foe , on the Irish shore : King William in Person right valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . His Presence will Valour and Courage create , Through all the whole Army ; no Monarch of late Was ever endued with such Courage as he , [ As ] Head of his force in field he will be : True Protestant Boys , that will fight by his side , In order to pull down the Catholic Pride : King William in Person right valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . All things for the War are preparing with speed , And Army we have , Boys , will make them to bleed ; Under good King William they'll win Day , or die , They scorn from the Face of a Tory to fly , But charge and discharge from the front to the Rear , Until the whole Kingdom of Rebels they clear : Our Monarch in Person he valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer our Foes . [ ? [ Kingdom ] [ ? ] [ ? ] [ ? ] [ ? ] [ ? ] [ I ] [ hope ] , We know that the Rebels will tremble for fear , As soon as the Name of King William they hear , And that with and Army he enters the Land , Those Rebels will never be able to stand ; And therefore King William in Person he goes , [ God ] grant [ him ] a Blessing to conquer his Foes . The noble Commanders , with Protestant Boys , Will soon rout the French and the Irish Dear-joys ; In Battle the sweet silver Trumpet shall found , The Drums they shall beatrice , and the Canons resound ; With fire and Sword , Boys , we them will pursue , Until we have routed the rebellious Crew King William in Person his Life will expose , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . The stout armed Troops first shall enter the Fray , While flourishing Colours in Field we'll display ; The Canons shall roar , and the Smoke then arise , Whose thick cloudy Vapours shall darken the Skies ; The French shall the fury of Protestants feel , We'll chase them with Swords , Boys , of tempered steel : King William in Person he valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . The Protestant Army of Fame and Renown , Will venture their Lives to pull Popery down , As having King William and Schomberg in Field , Who never did yet to and Enemy yield : Renowned stout Soldiers may glory this Spring , That shall be led on by a Protestant King : May Angels still guard him wherever he goes , To vanquish and conquer his insolent Foes . The Irish shore must the Theatre be , For acting this bloody and sharp Tragedy , King William himself will espousing our cause , Preserving our Lives with Religion and Laws : Let those that the Protestant Faith do profess , Afford him their Prayers , for they can do no less : Since in his own Person he valiantly goes , God grant him a Blessing to conquer his Foes . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 