Here , Here , Here is big and Pork : OR , ( A Catholic Tradit [ io ] n ) SHEW [ I ] NG How a lustful Roman Boar Made a delicate Piggin Riggin a Catholic Whore ; Whereby you may see , if you are not stark blind , That the Priests will never Marry while some Wives are so kind . Giving and Account of a Father Wifely , the Popish Bishop of Kildare in Ireland , and a Shopkeeper Wife in High-street , Dublin . To the Tune of Winchester Wedding . Licensed according to Order . IN Dublin was played such a Prank , the like was never seen , Between a full fed Priest and bonny black Ishabeen . He enjoined the Sinner a Penance for some notorious since , And made poor Bessee uncase , unto her naked Skin . And when she naked was he laid on many a stroke , With his fat brawny fist , until he made her backside smoke . But when Confession was ended , he did as he was used ; He fell to kissing and tickling , and playing with her Shoes . Until his Catholic Engine was raised , then flat on the Bed , on her Back He laid her and gave her Instructions , till he made the Cords to crack . But a curse on the Heretic Noise , her Husband came in on the Alarm , And found his Wife enclosed [ in ] the Reverend Father's Arms. And now the warm Game begun , he threatened the Priest with his Stones , And with a good Cudgel belaboured his Ghostly Reverend Bones . Thus having disabled the Stallion , and somewhat abated his Rage , He thought to put up the Matter and not bring his Name on the Stage . But dismissed the lustful Priest , and his Oath by the Mass , Of his silence and future forbearance of what had come to pass . Now you Catholic Bigots beware , it is high time for you to reform , Seeing the Priests be as other Men are , they are flesh and blood and full as warm . Do you think they can led chaste Lives , who are pampered and idle and fat ? To be sure they lie with your Wives , their Confession is in order to that . For this Song is plain Matter of Fact , and every one of your Cases may be , And if you will not for Religion , yet the hate of Cuckolding , fly Popery . As it was Printed in Dublin [ 168 ? ] Here , Here , Here is big and Pork : OR , ( A Catholic Tradit [ io ] n ) SHEW [ I ] NG How a lustful Roman Boar Made a delicate Piggin Riggin a Catholic Whore ; Whereby you may see , if you are not stark blind , That the Priests will never Marry while some Wives are so kind . Giving and Account of a Father Wifely , the Popish Bishop of Kildare in Ireland , and a Shopkeeper Wife in High-street , Dublin . To the Tune of Winchester Wedding . Licensed according to Order . IN Dublin was played such a Prank , the like was never seen , Between a full fed Priest and bonny black Ishabeen . He enjoined the Sinner a Penance for some notorious since , And made poor Bessee uncase , unto her naked Skin . And when she naked was he laid on many a stroke , With his fat brawny fist , until he made her backside smoke . But when Confession was ended , he did as he was used ; He fell to kissing and tickling , and playing with her Shoes . Until his Catholic Engine was raised , then flat on the Bed , on her Back He laid her and gave her Instructions , till he made the Cords to crack . But a curse on the Heretic Noise , her Husband came in on the Alarm , And found his Wife enclosed [ in ] the Reverend Father's Arms. And now the warm Game begun , he threatened the Priest with his Stones , And with a good Cudgel belaboured his Ghostly Reverend Bones . Thus having disabled the Stallion , and somewhat abated his Rage , He thought to put up the Matter and not bring his Name on the Stage . But dismissed the lustful Priest , and his Oath by the Mass , Of his silence and future forbearance of what had come to pass . Now you Catholic Bigots beware , it is high time for you to reform , Seeing the Priests be as other Men are , they are flesh and blood and full as warm . Do you think they can led chaste Lives , who are pampered and idle and fat ? To be sure they lie with your Wives , their Confession is in order to that . For this Song is plain Matter of Fact , and every one of your Cases may be , And if you will not for Religion , yet the hate of Cuckolding , fly Popery . As it was Printed in Dublin [ 168 ? ] 