K. William's March to Ireland : OR , The earnest Prayers and hearty Resolutions of the Noble General , Colonels , Captains , and all other Officers and Soldiers , that God would bless the Arms of King William , and conquer his Foes , and return in Triumph to his Royal Throne . His Majesty intending in this His Royal Expedition to lie at these places following : Wednesday at Northampton , Thursday at Litchfield , Friday at Whitchurch , Saturday at Colonel Whitleys between Chester and High-lake . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . THe long expectation at length now is come , King William the Glory of all Christendom , According to promise he now is sailed over , To fight the proud French on the Irish shore : God grant him a Blessing to make all his own , And bring him in safety again to his Throne . Brave noble Commanders both valiant and bold , Whose Courage and Conduct was never controlled , Are now full resolved to tend on his Train , And make no great question , but soon to regain The Irish Nation , and make it his own , Then guard him again to the Protestant Throne . We know that the French they look pitiful blue , And so does the rest of the Catholic Crew , While our mighty Monarch his Army does head , Whose Name like a Thunderbolt strikes the Leagues dead ; God grant him a Blessing to make all his own , Then guard him again to his Protestant Throne . Our mighty great Monarch of Fame and Renown , Is fully resolved to pull Popery down ; And therefore in Person his Life he'll expose , To conquer the French and the Irish foes : God grant him a Blessing to make all his own , Then guard him with safety again to his Throne . With rattling Drums his great Army will March , And every County in brief he will search , To find out the Rebels wherever they lurk , King William is resolved to finish the work ; And when he has brought them to their Hone , ah Hone , We'll guard him again to his Protestant Throne . The French and the Tories shall taste of our Rage , Like true Sons of Thunder we'll sweetly engage , Our Guns they shall rattle and roar in the Air , As if Mars the great God of War he was there ; And when that the Storms they are quite over blown , We'll guard our K. William again to the Throne . In bright shining Armour brave Boys we'll appear , It is not the French nor the Tories we fear , The Protestant Army shall carry the day , While flourishing Colours in Field we'll display : Then leaving Tyrconnel to make his sad moan , We'll guard our K. William again to his Throne . There's brave Inniskilling of Fame and Renown , Who fought in defence of the Protestant Crown , And ventured their Lives from the first to the last , It was not Tyrconnel their Glory could blast ; At Head of the Rebels K. William they'll own , And likewise will guard him again to his Throne . While his Royal Person do's rest and remain In Irish Wars our Rights to maintain , Lets those that the Protestant Faith do profess Afford him your Prayers , for you can do no less To conquer that Kingdom , and make it his [ own [ Then bring him in safety again to the Throne . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J BackK . William's March to Ireland : OR , The earnest Prayers and hearty Resolutions of the Noble General , Colonels , Captains , and all other Officers and Soldiers , that God would bless the Arms of King William , and conquer his Foes , and return in Triumph to his Royal Throne . His Majesty intending in this His Royal Expedition to lie at these places following : Wednesday at Northampton , Thursday at Litchfield , Friday at Whitchurch , Saturday at Colonel Whitleys between Chester and High-lake . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . THe long expectation at length now is come , King William the Glory of all Christendom , According to promise he now is sailed over , To fight the proud French on the Irish shore : God grant him a Blessing to make all his own , And bring him in safety again to his Throne . Brave noble Commanders both valiant and bold , Whose Courage and Conduct was never controlled , Are now full resolved to tend on his Train , And make no great question , but soon to regain The Irish Nation , and make it his own , Then guard him again to the Protestant Throne . We know that the French they look pitiful blue , And so does the rest of the Catholic Crew , While our mighty Monarch his Army does head , Whose Name like a Thunderbolt strikes the Leagues dead ; God grant him a Blessing to make all his own , Then guard him again to his Protestant Throne . Our mighty great Monarch of Fame and Renown , Is fully resolved to pull Popery down ; And therefore in Person his Life he'll expose , To conquer the French and the Irish foes : God grant him a Blessing to make all his own , Then guard him with safety again to his Throne . With rattling Drums his great Army will March , And every County in brief he will search , To find out the Rebels wherever they lurk , King William is resolved to finish the work ; And when he has brought them to their Hone , ah Hone , We'll guard him again to his Protestant Throne . The French and the Tories shall taste of our Rage , Like true Sons of Thunder we'll sweetly engage , Our Guns they shall rattle and roar in the Air , As if Mars the great God of War he was there ; And when that the Storms they are quite over blown , We'll guard our K. William again to the Throne . In bright shining Armour brave Boys we'll appear , It is not the French nor the Tories we fear , The Protestant Army shall carry the day , While flourishing Colours in Field we'll display : Then leaving Tyrconnel to make his sad moan , We'll guard our K. William again to his Throne . There's brave Inniskilling of Fame and Renown , Who fought in defence of the Protestant Crown , And ventured their Lives from the first to the last , It was not Tyrconnel their Glory could blast ; At Head of the Rebels K. William they'll own , And likewise will guard him again to his Throne . While his Royal Person do's rest and remain In Irish Wars our Rights to maintain , Lets those that the Protestant Faith do profess Afford him your Prayers , for you can do no less To conquer that Kingdom , and make it his [ own [ Then bring him in safety again to the Throne . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J Back 