The Royal Frolic : OR , King WILLIAM and his Nobles Entertainment at the Farmers House , in his Return from the Irish Wars . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . Licensed according to Order OLd Stories inform us of Jocular things , The which has been acted by Sovereign Kings , To make their hearts Merry , and Nobles also , As they on their Progress , a Hunting would go : these were happy days , when Great Caesars would be Familiar with Subject's of e'ry degree . Yet those that have Governed these Kingdoms of late , Has not been so pleasant , till William the Great , Returning to London from Limerick fight , Whose Courage was mingled with Joy and Delight : The High-Road he quit for Merriment sake , And to a Farmhouse straight his way he did take . In all Towns and Cities the Subject's did throng , To see Great King William as he passed along ; This Farmer likewise he was gone with his Wife , For why , she had never saw a King in her life ; Theres none but a Daughter at home did remain , To wait on King William and his Noble Train . The King with his Nobles strait entered in , With this Salutation they then did begin : Sweetheart , hast thou any choice Country Cheer , To see before honest true Travellers here ? For what thou shalt bring us we'll willingly pay , It was our mischance to Ride out of the way . Kind Gentlemen , then the young Lass did reply , What is in the House I will scorn to deny ; It's nothing but Bacon and Eggs , I declare . The King he replied , that is delicate fare : With that they began for to Cook it with speed , And he with his Nobles did savourly feed . What ever the Cellar and House would afford , She ready and willingly brought to the Board ; As nappy March Beer , full as brown as a Berry , They all eat and drank , and were heartily Merry : The Damsel did wait with a Country Grace , Yet knew not that William our King was in place . Then one of the Nobles straight called to the Maid , Oh where is they Father and Mother ? he said : Said she , they are Rid to the next Market-town , To see Great King William of Royal Renown . Whose Conquering Sword has the Victory wone , And made the proud Rebels in Ireland Run . I prithee , is that such a Sighed to be seen ? Methinks a fair May-Pole on this pleasant Green , When Milk-Maids are Dancing with Garlands so gay And every honest young Bachelor may With his loving Sweetheart Dance , merrily Sing , Sure this is far more than the sighed of the King . Why , this is most Innocent Pleasure , I'll own , But yet Great King William that sits on the Throne , Has ventured his Life to pull Popery down , Therefore he's beloved by the best of the Town : My Father and Mother will Honour him then , Our Landlord is one of his Parliament-men . King William he smiled , yet little he said , But threw her ten Guinnies ; and thus she was paid For this wholesome Dinner which she did prepare ; And that Noble Lord he did likewise declare , He'd give her two more for to buy her a Ring , Because she was Loyal , and Honoured her King . FINIS . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . The Royal Frolic : OR , King WILLIAM and his Nobles Entertainment at the Farmers House , in his Return from the Irish Wars . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . Licensed according to Order OLd Stories inform us of Jocular things , The which has been acted by Sovereign Kings , To make their hearts Merry , and Nobles also , As they on their Progress , a Hunting would go : these were happy days , when Great Caesars would be Familiar with Subject's of e'ry degree . Yet those that have Governed these Kingdoms of late , Has not been so pleasant , till William the Great , Returning to London from Limerick fight , Whose Courage was mingled with Joy and Delight : The High-Road he quit for Merriment sake , And to a Farmhouse straight his way he did take . In all Towns and Cities the Subject's did throng , To see Great King William as he passed along ; This Farmer likewise he was gone with his Wife , For why , she had never saw a King in her life ; Theres none but a Daughter at home did remain , To wait on King William and his Noble Train . The King with his Nobles strait entered in , With this Salutation they then did begin : Sweetheart , hast thou any choice Country Cheer , To see before honest true Travellers here ? For what thou shalt bring us we'll willingly pay , It was our mischance to Ride out of the way . Kind Gentlemen , then the young Lass did reply , What is in the House I will scorn to deny ; It's nothing but Bacon and Eggs , I declare . The King he replied , that is delicate fare : With that they began for to Cook it with speed , And he with his Nobles did savourly feed . What ever the Cellar and House would afford , She ready and willingly brought to the Board ; As nappy March Beer , full as brown as a Berry , They all eat and drank , and were heartily Merry : The Damsel did wait with a Country Grace , Yet knew not that William our King was in place . Then one of the Nobles straight called to the Maid , Oh where is they Father and Mother ? he said : Said she , they are Rid to the next Market-town , To see Great King William of Royal Renown . Whose Conquering Sword has the Victory wone , And made the proud Rebels in Ireland Run . I prithee , is that such a Sighed to be seen ? Methinks a fair May-Pole on this pleasant Green , When Milk-Maids are Dancing with Garlands so gay And every honest young Bachelor may With his loving Sweetheart Dance , merrily Sing , Sure this is far more than the sighed of the King . Why , this is most Innocent Pleasure , I'll own , But yet Great King William that sits on the Throne , Has ventured his Life to pull Popery down , Therefore he's beloved by the best of the Town : My Father and Mother will Honour him then , Our Landlord is one of his Parliament-men . King William he smiled , yet little he said , But threw her ten Guinnies ; and thus she was paid For this wholesome Dinner which she did prepare ; And that Noble Lord he did likewise declare , He'd give her two more for to buy her a Ring , Because she was Loyal , and Honoured her King . FINIS . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . 