The Second Victorious Conquest : OR , The City of CORK Stormed , And forced to Surrender to the Earl of Marlborough , and the rest of the P rotestant Forces . To the Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . S Owned the Trumpet , brave Boys , We have Scared the Dear-Joys , The City of Counterfeit ----- rk it is Taken ; And the poor Teagues did cry , Ah! whither shall we fly ? We're clearly , we're clearly in sorrow forsaken . Noble Marlborough came , Like a hero of Fame , And filled the poor To ----- rises with wonder ; For he forces did bring , Made the Elements ring , And his Cannons , his Cannons were Roaring like Thunder . Mighty Works he did from , Which the City did Storm , With Thundering Sh ----- ot which he gave them ; And the Fire and Smoak , Did the Catholics Choke , For it was not , it was not St. Patrick could save them . They made pitiful Moan , Crying , Ah Hone , ah Hone , Be Chreest , we shall a ----- ll be confounded ; For they both Kill and Slay , And we can't get away , With the Army , the Army , poor Teague is surrounded . 'Twas a woeful Complaint , Which they made to each Saint , Concluding they would ----- sten to Clear they ; And their Foreheads they Crossed , Yet the City they lost , For there's never , there's never a Saint would come near ' um . Fiery Bombs we did throw , Laying Battlements low , And beatrice down their lo ----- fty high Towers ; In the midst of the fray , Still we showed them fair Play , For we sent them , we sent them , in Volleys like Showers . As our Cannons were played , And a Breach being made , At which we reso ----- lued to enter ; This assuaged their Pride , Strait for Mercy they cried , For no longer , no longer to Fight , dare they venture . They for Mercy agreed , Which we granted with speed , The like we are ne ----- ver denying ; Thus we Conquered the Town , Like brave Boys of Renown , And we marched in , we marched in , with sweet Colours flying . And the Drums they did beatrice , With the Ho-boys so sweet , 'Twas so pleasant to he ----- are them together ; Loyal Healths they went round , Thus our Conquest was Crowned , Ever crying , ever crying , Our King Live for ever . As the Heavens does bless His arms with Success , Who does prove the Na ----- tions Defender ; We in time shall Subdue Mighty Limerick too , I , and make them , and make them be glad to Surrender . FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern ; near Duck-Land-end , in West-Smithfield . The Second Victorious Conquest : OR , The City of CORK Stormed , And forced to Surrender to the Earl of Marlborough , and the rest of the P rotestant Forces . To the Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . S Owned the Trumpet , brave Boys , We have Scared the Dear-Joys , The City of Counterfeit ----- rk it is Taken ; And the poor Teagues did cry , Ah! whither shall we fly ? We're clearly , we're clearly in sorrow forsaken . Noble Marlborough came , Like a hero of Fame , And filled the poor To ----- rises with wonder ; For he forces did bring , Made the Elements ring , And his Cannons , his Cannons were Roaring like Thunder . Mighty Works he did from , Which the City did Storm , With Thundering Sh ----- ot which he gave them ; And the Fire and Smoak , Did the Catholics Choke , For it was not , it was not St. Patrick could save them . They made pitiful Moan , Crying , Ah Hone , ah Hone , Be Chreest , we shall a ----- ll be confounded ; For they both Kill and Slay , And we can't get away , With the Army , the Army , poor Teague is surrounded . 'Twas a woeful Complaint , Which they made to each Saint , Concluding they would ----- sten to Clear they ; And their Foreheads they Crossed , Yet the City they lost , For there's never , there's never a Saint would come near ' um . Fiery Bombs we did throw , Laying Battlements low , And beatrice down their lo ----- fty high Towers ; In the midst of the fray , Still we showed them fair Play , For we sent them , we sent them , in Volleys like Showers . As our Cannons were played , And a Breach being made , At which we reso ----- lued to enter ; This assuaged their Pride , Strait for Mercy they cried , For no longer , no longer to Fight , dare they venture . They for Mercy agreed , Which we granted with speed , The like we are ne ----- ver denying ; Thus we Conquered the Town , Like brave Boys of Renown , And we marched in , we marched in , with sweet Colours flying . And the Drums they did beatrice , With the Ho-boys so sweet , 'Twas so pleasant to he ----- are them together ; Loyal Healths they went round , Thus our Conquest was Crowned , Ever crying , ever crying , Our King Live for ever . As the Heavens does bless His arms with Success , Who does prove the Na ----- tions Defender ; We in time shall Subdue Mighty Limerick too , I , and make them , and make them be glad to Surrender . FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern ; near Duck-Land-end , in West-Smithfield . 