The Joy of LONDONDERRY , In the Happy Arrival of their Majesties Forces , to the Succour of that long besieged City , which was accomplished on the 13th of this Instant June . To the Tune of , London Derry , Or , Nanny , O. Licensed according to Order . P Rotestants rejoice and sing , be not in the least cast down , Cheerful Tidings here I bring , of famous Londonderry Town . May the Heavens still be praised , wretched Roman han't their will ; Though [ fall ] se Rumours they have raised , yet we have Londonderry still . Thrice Renowned Major Kirk , that right valiant Soldier brave , Having undertook this work , the Irish never shall him outbrave . Nor the French-men in that Land , for they'll fallen with the Dear-Joys , By the Warlike Armed Band , when once he takes the Field , brave boys . Since he bid this Land adieu , for the making Papists bow , [ M ] any troubles he went through , but the greater is his Honour now . First when the Renowned Fleet , had not long been under Sail ; But they with cross winds did meet , and had not one sweet pleasant Gale . But Heaven their Distress beheld , so that this mercy they did find , That soon these swelling sheets was filled with a most prosperous Gale of wind . Now when they arrived at last , to the River of the Town , They beheld all blocked up fast , but Kirk soon beatrice their Cannon down . Here in brief I do report , nothing more than what is true , He beatrice down their battering Fort , and likewise took their Cannon too . Valiant Kirk with all his Train , did behave themselves so well , That some hundred Teagues were slave , his Cannons rung their passing Bell . Though the French and Teagues contrived , for to run brave Walker down , Valiant Kirk he is arrived , at famous Londonderry Town . When those poor besieged Souls , saw the succour and relief , Then this did straightwa [ y ] s [ e ] xpiate , their dark and dismal Clouds of grief The brave Major General , took stout Walker by the hand , Saying , though thy strength be small , here soon will come and armed band . Found the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum , we this Kingdom will restore : There's and Army soon will come , of thirty thousand men and more . Gold which he did with him bring , was gave to the Soldiers free , As a present from the King , for their undaunted Loyalty . Now their Joys did then abound , no dejected soul was seen , But with knees bowed to the Ground , each drank a health to King & amp ; Queen . And most heartily they pray , for King William whom they own , That in spite of France he may , long reign and flourish on the throne . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur Street . The Joy of LONDONDERRY , In the Happy Arrival of their Majesties Forces , to the Succour of that long besieged City , which was accomplished on the 13th of this Instant June . To the Tune of , London Derry , Or , Nanny , O. Licensed according to Order . P Rotestants rejoice and sing , be not in the least cast down , Cheerful Tidings here I bring , of famous Londonderry Town . May the Heavens still be praised , wretched Roman han't their will ; Though [ fall ] se Rumours they have raised , yet we have Londonderry still . Thrice Renowned Major Kirk , that right valiant Soldier brave , Having undertook this work , the Irish never shall him outbrave . Nor the French-men in that Land , for they'll fallen with the Dear-Joys , By the Warlike Armed Band , when once he takes the Field , brave boys . Since he bid this Land adieu , for the making Papists bow , [ M ] any troubles he went through , but the greater is his Honour now . First when the Renowned Fleet , had not long been under Sail ; But they with cross winds did meet , and had not one sweet pleasant Gale . But Heaven their Distress beheld , so that this mercy they did find , That soon these swelling sheets was filled with a most prosperous Gale of wind . Now when they arrived at last , to the River of the Town , They beheld all blocked up fast , but Kirk soon beatrice their Cannon down . Here in brief I do report , nothing more than what is true , He beatrice down their battering Fort , and likewise took their Cannon too . Valiant Kirk with all his Train , did behave themselves so well , That some hundred Teagues were slave , his Cannons rung their passing Bell . Though the French and Teagues contrived , for to run brave Walker down , Valiant Kirk he is arrived , at famous Londonderry Town . When those poor besieged Souls , saw the succour and relief , Then this did straightwa [ y ] s [ e ] xpiate , their dark and dismal Clouds of grief The brave Major General , took stout Walker by the hand , Saying , though thy strength be small , here soon will come and armed band . Found the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum , we this Kingdom will restore : There's and Army soon will come , of thirty thousand men and more . Gold which he did with him bring , was gave to the Soldiers free , As a present from the King , for their undaunted Loyalty . Now their Joys did then abound , no dejected soul was seen , But with knees bowed to the Ground , each drank a health to King & amp ; Queen . And most heartily they pray , for King William whom they own , That in spite of France he may , long reign and flourish on the throne . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur Street . 