The Seamen and Soldiers Courageous Resolution to stand by the P . of Orange . Tune of , Hark! the thundering Canons roar . Come brave Boys of great Renown , let not your Courage be cast down , Though Canons roar and Trumpets found , and Drums and Pikes do rattle : There's not a man with courage bold But now may get good store of Gold , Our Enemies we'll so control , and bravely give them Battle . Since Orange does us not neglect , On our part shalt be no defeat , But that our Country we'll protect [ Again ] nst any Foreign Nation . The French we valve not one jot , Nor Irish Teague that silly Sot , But both of them shall go to pot , whenever we do engage um . It never known and English-man , Either by Sea or yet by Land , But valiantly his Post did stand , and danger never feared : Whenever that our Cause is good , We'll fight up to the knees in blood , Our Courage cannot be withstood , nor by our Foes be feared . Weigh Anchor , then let's sail away , Time and Tide admits no stay ; I care not if I were this day in France but safely landed : The French King then we'd make to scut , Worse than when his Arse was cut , That he never more shall go to Rut , by us he'l be so branded . There's not a Soldier in the Land , Nor Seaman , as I understand , But cheerfully would lend a hand , to bring that Monarch under ; Of late so insolent he's grown , The Protestants he does disown , And act a Tyrants part it's known , his malice does so thunder . Though Father Peters there is safe , And in his sleeve now seems to laugh . A bitter Cup we'll make him quaff , than ever he did at the Altar : The Villain run away for fear , For if he had stayed longer here , I can but think how he would swear ; his Head being in a Halter . Now let us all with one consent Thank God that hath a Prince us sent , As under him and Instrument to be our chief Director : And let a flowing Bowl go round While we are still on English ground , Our Enemies for to confound , he'l still be our Protector . London , Printed for G . I.The Seamen and Soldiers Courageous Resolution to stand by the P . of Orange . Tune of , Hark! the thundering Canons roar . Come brave Boys of great Renown , let not your Courage be cast down , Though Canons roar and Trumpets found , and Drums and Pikes do rattle : There's not a man with courage bold But now may get good store of Gold , Our Enemies we'll so control , and bravely give them Battle . Since Orange does us not neglect , On our part shalt be no defeat , But that our Country we'll protect [ Again ] nst any Foreign Nation . The French we valve not one jot , Nor Irish Teague that silly Sot , But both of them shall go to pot , whenever we do engage um . It never known and English-man , Either by Sea or yet by Land , But valiantly his Post did stand , and danger never feared : Whenever that our Cause is good , We'll fight up to the knees in blood , Our Courage cannot be withstood , nor by our Foes be feared . Weigh Anchor , then let's sail away , Time and Tide admits no stay ; I care not if I were this day in France but safely landed : The French King then we'd make to scut , Worse than when his Arse was cut , That he never more shall go to Rut , by us he'l be so branded . There's not a Soldier in the Land , Nor Seaman , as I understand , But cheerfully would lend a hand , to bring that Monarch under ; Of late so insolent he's grown , The Protestants he does disown , And act a Tyrants part it's known , his malice does so thunder . Though Father Peters there is safe , And in his sleeve now seems to laugh . A bitter Cup we'll make him quaff , than ever he did at the Altar : The Villain run away for fear , For if he had stayed longer here , I can but think how he would swear ; his Head being in a Halter . Now let us all with one consent Thank God that hath a Prince us sent , As under him and Instrument to be our chief Director : And let a flowing Bowl go round While we are still on English ground , Our Enemies for to confound , he'l still be our Protector . London , Printed for G.I. 