The Royal Salutation , OR , The Courtly Greeting be tO ween K. William and Qu. Mary at his Return from the Wars in Ireland to his Royal Palace . Tune is , I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to order . Queen . W hen brave King William of renown came from the sharp and bloody scene , Riding in triumph to the Town , for to embrace his Gracious Queen , She was greatly then rejoiced , Lords , and all the Princely train ; This is a blessing , I'm possessing , for to see my Lord again . The Irish Rebels felt thy Rage , which Romanists did not deny ; Unable they were to engage , but straight unto the Bogs did fly : When this joyful News arrived , Protestants rejoiced amain ; And now a blessing , I'm possessing , to embrace thee once again . King . Said he , My noble Army bold , never valued the insulting Foe ; But fought like noble Hearts of Gold , true English Courage they did show : Falling on like Men undaunted ; Charging through the Front and Rear : Still as we fired , they retired , thus the coast we soon did clear . THe River Boyne we then did wade , having possessed the other Shore : The Rebels then we sprawling laid , they never found the like before : Horse and Foot did boldly venture , being strangers unto fear : Still as we fired , they retired , thus our Foes we soon did clear . Queen . My Royal Lord , replied the Queen , thou wased exposed to Dangers great , Where nought but Fire and Smoak was seen yet Providence on thee did wait : And preserved thy life in Battle , where great numbers did lie slave : This is my blessing , I'm possessing of my dearest Lord again . King . Although my Army wone the Day , and foes on us their backs they turned ; Yet warlike Schomberg in the Fray was killed , for whom I'm much concerned : Oh that brave Courageous Hero likewise Valiant Walker too : Though they expired , when they fired , France shall one Day for it rue . Queen . Alas ! that sad surprising News did grieve each loyal Subject here : And did their senses to amuse , none could forbear to shed a tear : Many brave courageous Soldiers near the River Boyne was slave : Yet this great blessing , I'm possessing , to enjoy my Lord again . Cast by thy weary Armour bright , receive thy Sceptre , Crown and Ball : With Lords and Nobles take delight , thou being King and Lord of all : Thou on Englands throne art seated , Subject's with a happy Reign , This is a blessing , I'm possessing , to embrace my Lord again . printed by and for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain : Where C ountrey C hapman may be furnished with all sorts of New and Old small Books and Ballads at reasonable rates . The Royal Salutation , OR , The Courtly Greeting be tO ween K. William and Qu. Mary at his Return from the Wars in Ireland to his Royal Palace . Tune is , I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to order . Queen . W hen brave King William of renown came from the sharp and bloody scene , Riding in triumph to the Town , for to embrace his Gracious Queen , She was greatly then rejoiced , Lords , and all the Princely train ; This is a blessing , I'm possessing , for to see my Lord again . The Irish Rebels felt thy Rage , which Romanists did not deny ; Unable they were to engage , but straight unto the Bogs did fly : When this joyful News arrived , Protestants rejoiced amain ; And now a blessing , I'm possessing , to embrace thee once again . King . Said he , My noble Army bold , never valued the insulting Foe ; But fought like noble Hearts of Gold , true English Courage they did show : Falling on like Men undaunted ; Charging through the Front and Rear : Still as we fired , they retired , thus the coast we soon did clear . THe River Boyne we then did wade , having possessed the other Shore : The Rebels then we sprawling laid , they never found the like before : Horse and Foot did boldly venture , being strangers unto fear : Still as we fired , they retired , thus our Foes we soon did clear . Queen . My Royal Lord , replied the Queen , thou wased exposed to Dangers great , Where nought but Fire and Smoak was seen yet Providence on thee did wait : And preserved thy life in Battle , where great numbers did lie slave : This is my blessing , I'm possessing of my dearest Lord again . King . Although my Army wone the Day , and foes on us their backs they turned ; Yet warlike Schomberg in the Fray was killed , for whom I'm much concerned : Oh that brave Courageous Hero likewise Valiant Walker too : Though they expired , when they fired , France shall one Day for it rue . Queen . Alas ! that sad surprising News did grieve each loyal Subject here : And did their senses to amuse , none could forbear to shed a tear : Many brave courageous Soldiers near the River Boyne was slave : Yet this great blessing , I'm possessing , to enjoy my Lord again . Cast by thy weary Armour bright , receive thy Sceptre , Crown and Ball : With Lords and Nobles take delight , thou being King and Lord of all : Thou on Englands throne art seated , Subject's with a happy Reign , This is a blessing , I'm possessing , to embrace my Lord again . printed by and for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain : Where C ountrey C hapman may be furnished with all sorts of New and Old small Books and Ballads at reasonable rates . 