THE Nations Joy for a War With MONSIEUR , OR , ENGLAND's Resolution to pluck down France . To the Tune of Legin Water , or Round about the Hollow Tree . Licensed according to Order . NOw England's Bloody Flag's displayed ; The French-men do our Fury dread . Great William Vows for to maintain The Rights of England on the Main : His valiant Seamen scorn to flinch , They'll die ever give their Foes and Inch. Brave Protestants they will Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . Our Navy Spreads their Canvas Wings , And to the French Destruction brings . Our gallant Fleet so brave appears , It makes the French-men hang their Ears . The might Power of England's Crown , Shall pluck that Popish Tyrant down , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . Let Monsieur now , do what he can , We'll still Reign Master over the Main ; Old England's Right upon the Sea , In spite of France maintained shall be ; Our Cannons thundering from each Ship , Shall send the French-men to the Deep , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . No Seaman fears to loose his Blood , To justify a Cause so good . The French , which long has spoiled our Trade , And further , would our Rights Invade . Their bold Endeavours soon we'll tire , Their cowardly Fleet we'll sink and fire : Our Nations Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . The private Leagues which once you made , To spoil our Land , are all betrayed : To Recompense your King for that , We'll make you feed our Mackrell fat : We'll show you all such English Play , Shall make you scow're and fly away , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . The Force which they to Ireland send , Like Beasts within a Pound are Penned , And now , before they get away , We'll make them for their Trespass pay : Brave England will no more be fooled , Nor by a Popish Prince be ruled , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . All valiant Lads within our Land , To pluck down France will lend a hand : Then Pope and Monsieur , have a care , It'll prove to both a fatal War , While England shall successful be , In plucking down of Popery , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . For to advance King William's Fame , We'll add new Glories to his Name , The haughty Monsieur we'll pluck down , And make him bow to England's Crown : Our Papist Foes our Power shall know , We'll bring their Cross and Miter low , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . We have a Prince , whose mighty hand , From Popish Ills protect our Land. The Scarlet Whore he has over come , And plucked down all the Pride of Rome . The Protestants he has redressed , Who were with many Laws oppressed , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . Now England is so powerful grown , Poor Monsieur totters in his Throne . Brave Boys , with Courage let's proceed , No English man will fear to bleed . The cowardly French we'll soon confound , Brave William shall in France be Crowned , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . THE Nations Joy for a War With MONSIEUR , OR , ENGLAND's Resolution to pluck down France . To the Tune of Legin Water , or Round about the Hollow Tree . Licensed according to Order . NOw England's Bloody Flag's displayed ; The French-men do our Fury dread . Great William Vows for to maintain The Rights of England on the Main : His valiant Seamen scorn to flinch , They'll die ever give their Foes and Inch. Brave Protestants they will Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . Our Navy Spreads their Canvas Wings , And to the French Destruction brings . Our gallant Fleet so brave appears , It makes the French-men hang their Ears . The might Power of England's Crown , Shall pluck that Popish Tyrant down , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . Let Monsieur now , do what he can , We'll still Reign Master over the Main ; Old England's Right upon the Sea , In spite of France maintained shall be ; Our Cannons thundering from each Ship , Shall send the French-men to the Deep , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . No Seaman fears to loose his Blood , To justify a Cause so good . The French , which long has spoiled our Trade , And further , would our Rights Invade . Their bold Endeavours soon we'll tire , Their cowardly Fleet we'll sink and fire : Our Nations Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . The private Leagues which once you made , To spoil our Land , are all betrayed : To Recompense your King for that , We'll make you feed our Mackrell fat : We'll show you all such English Play , Shall make you scow're and fly away , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . The Force which they to Ireland send , Like Beasts within a Pound are Penned , And now , before they get away , We'll make them for their Trespass pay : Brave England will no more be fooled , Nor by a Popish Prince be ruled , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . All valiant Lads within our Land , To pluck down France will lend a hand : Then Pope and Monsieur , have a care , It'll prove to both a fatal War , While England shall successful be , In plucking down of Popery , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . For to advance King William's Fame , We'll add new Glories to his Name , The haughty Monsieur we'll pluck down , And make him bow to England's Crown : Our Papist Foes our Power shall know , We'll bring their Cross and Miter low , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . We have a Prince , whose mighty hand , From Popish Ills protect our Land. The Scarlet Whore he has over come , And plucked down all the Pride of Rome . The Protestants he has redressed , Who were with many Laws oppressed , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . Now England is so powerful grown , Poor Monsieur totters in his Throne . Brave Boys , with Courage let's proceed , No English man will fear to bleed . The cowardly French we'll soon confound , Brave William shall in France be Crowned , Old England's Glory to Advance , We'll scare the Pope and King of France . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 