And ANSWER to The Royal Frolic ; Containing the Intrigues and Passages between the Farmer and his Wife at their return home , where they found His Gracious Majesty King WILLIAM with His Nobles . Tune of , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . TO He most Royal Frolic of our Great King , is now put in Print for his Subject's to Sing , It's about his brave Feasting at a Farmers House , Where He and his Nobles did bravely Carouse , Now here is the Second Part penned to show What passed when the Goodman he homeward did go . He now having been at Market Town , To see our Great Sovereign of Fame and Renown ; But seeing at last that he came not that way , The Farmer resolved here not for to stay , And so with his Wife to his Farm did repair , But yet little thinking K. William was there . Now when the King with His Nobles had dined , The Farmer came home , and happened to find Three Gallant fine Coaches just at his own door , Such a brave sighed he had never seen before , But this fine sighed he no sooner beheld , But all his Senses with Wonder were filled . The Goodman was troubled , and did shake for fear , He hardly knew where , or what Course for to steer ; Thinking some Robbers has ransacked his Farm : Pish , says his good Wife , I do fear no such Harm , Good Husband then be of good Courage quoth she , In short I will tell you what it's , you shall see . Our Daughter you know she is handsome and fair , Few with her for Beauty can hardly compare , Some Noble young Gallant to Court her is come , A [ ? ] knowing that both of us were far from Home , And if his Intentions are honest and just . Your Daughter with him I hope you will Trust. Alas ! my dear Honey , the Good Man replied , If any Young Gallant will make her his Bride , And I should not be willing to yield to the same , The whole World would think I were highly to blame ; Oh! I should rejoice such a Wedding to see , ' Twoued make her a Lady in every degree . Now as they were talking a Neighbour came by , And thus to the Farmer did presently cry : There's a Royal Guest dines with you to day , Our Great K. William , and his Nobles so Gay : This frightened the Farmer and his Wife likewise , That what course to take they could not devise . Then out came K. William with his Royal Train , In order to go on His Journey again ; And as their young Daughter did wait on the side , My Father and Mother is here then she cried : K. William then smiling , did forthwith command That both should be made in his presence to stand . He bid them be cheerful , and nothing to fear , And Rewarded them Nobly for their Country i [ are ] , His Nobles was pleased , as Fame does report , Fare above all the dainty Dishes at Court ; So taking his Leave of the Good Man that day Great William for London then posted away . The Merry old Farmer was pleased at his hear [ tO ] That Fortune such Favours to him should impart ; While he went to meet our King seven long Mile , The King and His Nobles came to see him the while , And was very well pleased to dine on his Board , With such wholesome Food as his House could afford . Printed for A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little old Baily . And ANSWER to The Royal Frolic ; Containing the Intrigues and Passages between the Farmer and his Wife at their return home , where they found His Gracious Majesty King WILLIAM with His Nobles . Tune of , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . TO He most Royal Frolic of our Great King , is now put in Print for his Subject's to Sing , It's about his brave Feasting at a Farmers House , Where He and his Nobles did bravely Carouse , Now here is the Second Part penned to show What passed when the Goodman he homeward did go . He now having been at Market Town , To see our Great Sovereign of Fame and Renown ; But seeing at last that he came not that way , The Farmer resolved here not for to stay , And so with his Wife to his Farm did repair , But yet little thinking K. William was there . Now when the King with His Nobles had dined , The Farmer came home , and happened to find Three Gallant fine Coaches just at his own door , Such a brave sighed he had never seen before , But this fine sighed he no sooner beheld , But all his Senses with Wonder were filled . The Goodman was troubled , and did shake for fear , He hardly knew where , or what Course for to steer ; Thinking some Robbers has ransacked his Farm : Pish , says his good Wife , I do fear no such Harm , Good Husband then be of good Courage quoth she , In short I will tell you what it's , you shall see . Our Daughter you know she is handsome and fair , Few with her for Beauty can hardly compare , Some Noble young Gallant to Court her is come , A [ ? ] knowing that both of us were far from Home , And if his Intentions are honest and just . Your Daughter with him I hope you will Trust. Alas ! my dear Honey , the Good Man replied , If any Young Gallant will make her his Bride , And I should not be willing to yield to the same , The whole World would think I were highly to blame ; Oh! I should rejoice such a Wedding to see , ' Twoued make her a Lady in every degree . Now as they were talking a Neighbour came by , And thus to the Farmer did presently cry : There's a Royal Guest dines with you to day , Our Great K. William , and his Nobles so Gay : This frightened the Farmer and his Wife likewise , That what course to take they could not devise . Then out came K. William with his Royal Train , In order to go on His Journey again ; And as their young Daughter did wait on the side , My Father and Mother is here then she cried : K. William then smiling , did forthwith command That both should be made in his presence to stand . He bid them be cheerful , and nothing to fear , And Rewarded them Nobly for their Country i [ are ] , His Nobles was pleased , as Fame does report , Fare above all the dainty Dishes at Court ; So taking his Leave of the Good Man that day Great William for London then posted away . The Merry old Farmer was pleased at his hear [ tO ] That Fortune such Favours to him should impart ; While he went to meet our King seven long Mile , The King and His Nobles came to see him the while , And was very well pleased to dine on his Board , With such wholesome Food as his House could afford . Printed for A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little old Baily . 