King WILLIAM'S Courage , OR , Our Royal Monarch's taking Leave of his Queen and Princely Palace , for the expedition of Ireland ; from whence may he return with Honour and Victory . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . Licensed according to Order . A Dieu my sweet Lady of Royal Renown , I being resolved to pull Popery down ; It is not a time any longer to stay , The Season's advanced , and I must away , To head a vast Army of Protestant boys , Who fears not the French nor the Tory Dear-Joys . I leave thee here seated on the Royal Throne , Where both Lords and Commons thy Power will own ; And labour to keep the whole Kingdom from Jars , While I am abroad in the Irish Wars , To head a vast Army of Protestant boys , Who fears not the French , nor the Irish Dear-Joys . A King in their presence true Courage will raise , Which has been expected these many long days ; But now having settled the weighty Affairs , I shall put and end to the doubts , fears and cares ; And head my vast Army of Protestant boys , Who fears , etc There's many brave Nobles , my sweet Royal Queen , Now freely will enter the sharp bloody Sceen ; As stout and Courageous as Brittain ever bred , Which will fill the Rebels with horror and dread , At sighed of my Army of Protestant boys , Who fears , etc With vigour and Courage they'll chase and pursue The Rebels and Traitors , until they subdue The Cities and Castles all over the Land , And make them repent that they ever did stand , To cope with and Army of Protestant boys , Who fears , etc I often have herd of the Glory and Fame Of my valiant Soldiers , who vows to proclaim Their Gracious King William , wherever they go , So soon as they've Routed the insolent Foe : I'll head my vast Army of Protestant boys , Who fears , etc Those true Noble Hero's , who valiantly Fight , The wrongs of that Kingdom in order to right ; And likewise survive , when the Victory's wone , They shall be rewarded for what they have done In Person I'll be with my Protestant boys , Who fears , etc And now my sweet Queen , with a Royal Embrace , I leave thee to Govern and Rule in my place ; May Heaven preserve thee to flourish and Reign , Until I with Triumph return home again : For now will I head my true Protestant boys , Who fears not , etc A Blessing go with thee , they Queen then replied , May Angels still Guard thee on every side ; Defending the Life of my Sovereign Lord , And Victory give to thy Conquering Sword ; To free those poor Souls that in Prison remain , And then the three Kingdoms will Flourish again . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Miller , & amp ; A. MilbournKing WILLIAM'S Courage , OR , Our Royal Monarch's taking Leave of his Queen and Princely Palace , for the expedition of Ireland ; from whence may he return with Honour and Victory . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . Licensed according to Order . A Dieu my sweet Lady of Royal Renown , I being resolved to pull Popery down ; It is not a time any longer to stay , The Season's advanced , and I must away , To head a vast Army of Protestant boys , Who fears not the French nor the Tory Dear-Joys . I leave thee here seated on the Royal Throne , Where both Lords and Commons thy Power will own ; And labour to keep the whole Kingdom from Jars , While I am abroad in the Irish Wars , To head a vast Army of Protestant boys , Who fears not the French , nor the Irish Dear-Joys . A King in their presence true Courage will raise , Which has been expected these many long days ; But now having settled the weighty Affairs , I shall put and end to the doubts , fears and cares ; And head my vast Army of Protestant boys , Who fears , etc There's many brave Nobles , my sweet Royal Queen , Now freely will enter the sharp bloody Sceen ; As stout and Courageous as Brittain ever bred , Which will fill the Rebels with horror and dread , At sighed of my Army of Protestant boys , Who fears , etc With vigour and Courage they'll chase and pursue The Rebels and Traitors , until they subdue The Cities and Castles all over the Land , And make them repent that they ever did stand , To cope with and Army of Protestant boys , Who fears , etc I often have herd of the Glory and Fame Of my valiant Soldiers , who vows to proclaim Their Gracious King William , wherever they go , So soon as they've Routed the insolent Foe : I'll head my vast Army of Protestant boys , Who fears , etc Those true Noble Hero's , who valiantly Fight , The wrongs of that Kingdom in order to right ; And likewise survive , when the Victory's wone , They shall be rewarded for what they have done In Person I'll be with my Protestant boys , Who fears , etc And now my sweet Queen , with a Royal Embrace , I leave thee to Govern and Rule in my place ; May Heaven preserve thee to flourish and Reign , Until I with Triumph return home again : For now will I head my true Protestant boys , Who fears not , etc A Blessing go with thee , they Queen then replied , May Angels still Guard thee on every side ; Defending the Life of my Sovereign Lord , And Victory give to thy Conquering Sword ; To free those poor Souls that in Prison remain , And then the three Kingdoms will Flourish again . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Miller , & amp ; A. Milbourn 