The Successful Commander : OR , The brave Exploit performed by the Right Honourable the Earl of Athlone , against the French at Givet , where the French had laid up invincible Stores for the ensuing Campaign , of which our renowned Earl was plea - sed to make a Burn-fire for joy of the discovery of the horrid Conspiracy in England . To the Tune of , Let Caesar live long : or , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc Y Ou truehearted Protestants pray now attend , Here's joyful good tidings from Flanders we send , The Early of Athlone a brave project hath played , By which the poor French-men are clearly dismayed , For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made a Burn-fire , Boys , at their own cost . So soon as we herd of that horrible thing , Which had been contrived against William our King ; The noble Commanders was all in a rage , And strait they resolved Monsieur to engage ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made a Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . The French had laid up on invincible Store , Far greater than ever they provided before , At Givet a Garrison for their Campaign , But our brave Commanders went with a large Train ; For joy that Plot was discovered and crossed , We made a Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . The valiant renowned brave Earl of Athlone , He finding the French so industerous grown , As to make such early Provisions this Year , He marched again them with brave Troops void of fear : For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , He made a vast Burn-fire at the French cost . Three millions of Rations of Forage was there , With all other Stores which the French did prepare , In order for laying close siege to the Town Of Namur , that Fortress of fame and renown ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made a Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . Large Bullets read hight we poured into the place , Which fired the Store in a very short space , Devouring flames then so eagerly burned , That all into ashes was instantly turned ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made this Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . The Fire increased , and the Flames did abound , Which laid their high Battlements flat to the ground , For still our great Cannons and Mortars did roar , The French they were never so affrighted before ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made this Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . The steely Bullets came showering down , And scared the poor French men that were in the Town , Who cried out , Begar , what does all this mean ? Such hailstones of fire sure never was seen ; De English for joy that our Plotting is crossed , Has made this great Burn-fire at our own cost . In this consternation the French ran about , Yet they were not able the Flames to put out , Till all was consumed to Ashes , and then We left the poor Rascals , and marched off our Men ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made this Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . Perhaps they may soon have enough of their Plot , When we have refined them with Fire and Shot ; Brave Russel by Sea , and the Army by Land , Resolves to pursue with a conquering Hand ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made this Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . Printed for J. Bissel , at the [ Bible ] and Harp [ in ] [ West-Smithfield ] The Successful Commander : OR , The brave Exploit performed by the Right Honourable the Earl of Athlone , against the French at Givet , where the French had laid up invincible Stores for the ensuing Campaign , of which our renowned Earl was plea - sed to make a Burn-fire for joy of the discovery of the horrid Conspiracy in England . To the Tune of , Let Caesar live long : or , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc Y Ou truehearted Protestants pray now attend , Here's joyful good tidings from Flanders we send , The Early of Athlone a brave project hath played , By which the poor French-men are clearly dismayed , For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made a Burn-fire , Boys , at their own cost . So soon as we herd of that horrible thing , Which had been contrived against William our King ; The noble Commanders was all in a rage , And strait they resolved Monsieur to engage ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made a Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . The French had laid up on invincible Store , Far greater than ever they provided before , At Givet a Garrison for their Campaign , But our brave Commanders went with a large Train ; For joy that Plot was discovered and crossed , We made a Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . The valiant renowned brave Earl of Athlone , He finding the French so industerous grown , As to make such early Provisions this Year , He marched again them with brave Troops void of fear : For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , He made a vast Burn-fire at the French cost . Three millions of Rations of Forage was there , With all other Stores which the French did prepare , In order for laying close siege to the Town Of Namur , that Fortress of fame and renown ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made a Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . Large Bullets read hight we poured into the place , Which fired the Store in a very short space , Devouring flames then so eagerly burned , That all into ashes was instantly turned ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made this Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . The Fire increased , and the Flames did abound , Which laid their high Battlements flat to the ground , For still our great Cannons and Mortars did roar , The French they were never so affrighted before ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made this Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . The steely Bullets came showering down , And scared the poor French men that were in the Town , Who cried out , Begar , what does all this mean ? Such hailstones of fire sure never was seen ; De English for joy that our Plotting is crossed , Has made this great Burn-fire at our own cost . In this consternation the French ran about , Yet they were not able the Flames to put out , Till all was consumed to Ashes , and then We left the poor Rascals , and marched off our Men ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made this Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . Perhaps they may soon have enough of their Plot , When we have refined them with Fire and Shot ; Brave Russel by Sea , and the Army by Land , Resolves to pursue with a conquering Hand ; For joy that the Plot was discovered and crossed , We made this Burn-fire , Boys , at the French cost . Printed for J. Bissel , at the [ Bible ] and Harp [ in ] [ West-Smithfield ] 