The PROTESTANTS Great Misery in IRELAND , Relating the Inhumane Cruelties that are daily committed there by the French and Irish Papists . To the Tune of , Londonderry . O Lord what Misery there has been In Ireland , it is plainly seen ; Poor Protestants are beaten out , Loose House and Home by the Irish Rout. What wicked Murders has been done , As bad as was in Fortione ; When they ripped up Women to the Breast , That was big with Child , it is confessed . They Ravish Maids and Wives also , Then murdered them before they go : It is a grievous thing to speak , It would make a stony heart to ache . By hundreds without Remorse , Into Houses they did drive by force ; Then burned that [ e ] i [ r ] Houses over their head , There they lay frying till they were dead . Oh! that [ oh ] se bloody Irish Papist Crew , Has no Remorse , I tell to you , They're as bad again we u [ n ] worser [ erst ] and , When they do get the upp [ e ] r-hand , Then brave English Men stand fast , The Lord will bless you to the last , And will strengthen you both great & amp ; small , To overcome these Tyrants all . Your Brothers that in Ireland be , Make haste to relieve them speedily ; Or else Londonderry may be lost , Then England will be sorely Crossed . And then if such a thing should be , They'll make a bloody Massacre ; They say the weakest goes to the wall , But the Lord is strong he can defend us all . Now the English Army is on their way , Let every Man and Woman pray ; To bless them safe by Sea and Land , That God my give them strength their foes withstand . Now the Irish with their bloody Band , Are dividing of the Protestants Land , And poor creatures , they are all undone , They know not which way for to run . But with help of God , our Army may Reward their Cruelty every way ; And make the Irish cry Oh Hone , To curse the time they murdered Englishmen . It is for the Gospel we do stand , Religion , Laws and our Native Land ; To worser [ e ] fend us from Room is Slavery , And that Triple Crown of Popery . God defend our English Nation still , And deliver us from the Papists Will ; And send the Irish Protestants Relief , To ease them of their Care and Grief . Which will be done ever it be long , For we hope the Lord is for us strong ; He will be for us great and small , Then the Church of England cannot fallen . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The PROTESTANTS Great Misery in IRELAND , Relating the Inhumane Cruelties that are daily committed there by the French and Irish Papists . To the Tune of , Londonderry . O Lord what Misery there has been In Ireland , it is plainly seen ; Poor Protestants are beaten out , Loose House and Home by the Irish Rout. What wicked Murders has been done , As bad as was in Fortione ; When they ripped up Women to the Breast , That was big with Child , it is confessed . They Ravish Maids and Wives also , Then murdered them before they go : It is a grievous thing to speak , It would make a stony heart to ache . By hundreds without Remorse , Into Houses they did drive by force ; Then burned that [ e ] i [ r ] Houses over their head , There they lay frying till they were dead . Oh! that [ oh ] se bloody Irish Papist Crew , Has no Remorse , I tell to you , They're as bad again we u [ n ] worser [ erst ] and , When they do get the upp [ e ] r-hand , Then brave English Men stand fast , The Lord will bless you to the last , And will strengthen you both great & amp ; small , To overcome these Tyrants all . Your Brothers that in Ireland be , Make haste to relieve them speedily ; Or else Londonderry may be lost , Then England will be sorely Crossed . And then if such a thing should be , They'll make a bloody Massacre ; They say the weakest goes to the wall , But the Lord is strong he can defend us all . Now the English Army is on their way , Let every Man and Woman pray ; To bless them safe by Sea and Land , That God my give them strength their foes withstand . Now the Irish with their bloody Band , Are dividing of the Protestants Land , And poor creatures , they are all undone , They know not which way for to run . But with help of God , our Army may Reward their Cruelty every way ; And make the Irish cry Oh Hone , To curse the time they murdered Englishmen . It is for the Gospel we do stand , Religion , Laws and our Native Land ; To worser [ e ] fend us from Room is Slavery , And that Triple Crown of Popery . God defend our English Nation still , And deliver us from the Papists Will ; And send the Irish Protestants Relief , To ease them of their Care and Grief . Which will be done ever it be long , For we hope the Lord is for us strong ; He will be for us great and small , Then the Church of England cannot fallen . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 