Great Brittains Joys completed , Or , Londons Triumph in the Proclaiming of the Prince and P rincess of Orange King and Queen of England , on the 13th . of this Instant February : to the great satisfaction of the Subject's . Tune is , Charon make haste . PRotestants now we have cause to be cheerful , bid all your sorrows and cares adieu ; Though we of late had much cause to be fearful , happy sweet tidings I bring to you : The Prince of Orange is Proclaimed the King of England now this day , All the whole Nation with Joys are inflamed . as knowing King William with Sceptre sways . Truehearted Protestants had not the power , their joy and merriment to forbear , The Cannons roaring likewise from the Tower , while Bells was fanning the lofty air : All to declare their satisfaction , by the vast Triumph of the Day , Praying that Heaven would be the protection of William our King who the Sceptre sways . Now in full Bumpers of flowing Canary , Boys , drink a Health to our Gracious King , Then to his Royal high Consort Queen Marry , who to this Nation much joy does bring : Down with the Pope and all his Faction , who did endeavour the Lands decay , While the true Church has a perfect Protection , by William our King who the Sceptre sways . Let us all Loyal Obedience here render to the great Monarch which we Proclaim , To be the Church and the Nations Defender , Heaven ordain him a happy Reign , That our Laws on sure Foundation , may be so fixed as never to decay , That we may see a sweet flourishing Nation , while good King William the Sceptre sways Having a sighed of our long Expectations , raptures of joy did our Souls surprise ; And thorough the City with loud Acclamations there we saluted the lofty Skies ; Crying , King William live for ever , who is Proclaimed for us this day : From our Allegiance one Soul would not sever , while you the Sword and the Sceptre sway . Who never feared the Storms of the Ocean , for our Religion , our Lives and Laws ; Now may a flourishing Crown be his portion , who undertook such a Glorious Cause : Let this for ever be Recorded , for to be read another day , What Comfort he to this Nation afforded , the Sceptre long may King William to sway All that we had was and imminent Danger , utter Destruction was near our Doom , The Church abused by every Stranger , the which was sent from the Pope of Rom [ e ] At length this Prince being moved with pity with a vast Fleet made haste away , Now he's Proclaimed in Londons great City , the Sceptre long may King William to sway . After the Herald of Arms was returned , the more our Happiness to complete , Liquour was flowing , while fires they Burned , like Blazing Comets in e'ry Street : Drinking of Healths to good Queen Marry , and to the King , proclaimed this day , Never was Subjects more heartily Merry , wishing he long might the Sceptre sway . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking Glass on London-Bridge . Great Brittains Joys completed , Or , Londons Triumph in the Proclaiming of the Prince and P rincess of Orange King and Queen of England , on the 13th . of this Instant February : to the great satisfaction of the Subject's . Tune is , Charon make haste . PRotestants now we have cause to be cheerful , bid all your sorrows and cares adieu ; Though we of late had much cause to be fearful , happy sweet tidings I bring to you : The Prince of Orange is Proclaimed the King of England now this day , All the whole Nation with Joys are inflamed . as knowing King William with Sceptre sways . Truehearted Protestants had not the power , their joy and merriment to forbear , The Cannons roaring likewise from the Tower , while Bells was fanning the lofty air : All to declare their satisfaction , by the vast Triumph of the Day , Praying that Heaven would be the protection of William our King who the Sceptre sways . Now in full Bumpers of flowing Canary , Boys , drink a Health to our Gracious King , Then to his Royal high Consort Queen Marry , who to this Nation much joy does bring : Down with the Pope and all his Faction , who did endeavour the Lands decay , While the true Church has a perfect Protection , by William our King who the Sceptre sways . Let us all Loyal Obedience here render to the great Monarch which we Proclaim , To be the Church and the Nations Defender , Heaven ordain him a happy Reign , That our Laws on sure Foundation , may be so fixed as never to decay , That we may see a sweet flourishing Nation , while good King William the Sceptre sways Having a sighed of our long Expectations , raptures of joy did our Souls surprise ; And thorough the City with loud Acclamations there we saluted the lofty Skies ; Crying , King William live for ever , who is Proclaimed for us this day : From our Allegiance one Soul would not sever , while you the Sword and the Sceptre sway . Who never feared the Storms of the Ocean , for our Religion , our Lives and Laws ; Now may a flourishing Crown be his portion , who undertook such a Glorious Cause : Let this for ever be Recorded , for to be read another day , What Comfort he to this Nation afforded , the Sceptre long may King William to sway All that we had was and imminent Danger , utter Destruction was near our Doom , The Church abused by every Stranger , the which was sent from the Pope of Rom [ e ] At length this Prince being moved with pity with a vast Fleet made haste away , Now he's Proclaimed in Londons great City , the Sceptre long may King William to sway . After the Herald of Arms was returned , the more our Happiness to complete , Liquour was flowing , while fires they Burned , like Blazing Comets in e'ry Street : Drinking of Healths to good Queen Marry , and to the King , proclaimed this day , Never was Subjects more heartily Merry , wishing he long might the Sceptre sway . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking Glass on London-Bridge . 