The Joy of Protestants [ For ] King William ' s safe Arrival from the Wars of Ireland , to his Gracious Queen , and his Roy - all Palace ; who Landed in England , at Kings Weston , near Bristol , the Sixth of September , 1690. to the unspeakable Joy of all his loving Subject's . Tune is , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . LEt loyal true Protestants both far and near Rejoice at the welcome good tidings we hear , Our Gracious King William is returned to his TO hrone , Whose valour and Conduct all Europe will own : Let Healths fairly pass now , and Bells' sweetly ring , To welcome , in triumph , Great William our King . Our King to the Irish wars he did go , TO here for to engage with a powerful Foe ; TO his never could daunt his most noble Design , But craved the assistance of Powers Divine : Let Healths fairly pass now , and Bells' sweetly ring , To welcome , in triumph , Great William our King . Our most Royal Prince in the midst of the fight When Bullets from Cannons were taking their flight : Good Angels around him his Person did guard , Protecting the life of our Sovereign Lord : Let Healths freely pass now , and Bells' sweetly ring , To welcome in triumph , Great William our King . The French and the Tories he gave them their endue , Who run , while our Monarch did after pursue : He Cities and Castles full many did clear , And they of his conquering Sword stood in fear : Let Healths freely pass now , and Bells' sweetly ring , To welcome , in triumph , Great William our King . And now having made such a Progress we find , To his brave Commanders the Care he resigned ; Who vow that the Irish Wars they'll maintain , While he to fair England's returned again : Let Healths Boys , go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring At the safe Arrival , etc As soon as King William was entered on Board , The Heavens was pleased in Love to afford A prosperous Gale , which did soon waft him over To the pleasant Coasts of the English Shore , Where Healths they went round , and the Bells' they did ring To welcome home William our Sovereign K ing . As soon as he came to the Shore with his Fleet , Some thousands of People was joyful to meet Our Sovereign , who was with Victory Crowned , While full flowing Bumpers went merrily round : The Cannons did fire , and Bells' they did ring , At the safe Return , etc Then Dukes , Lords , and Commons attended his Train , And wished him a long and a prosperous Reign ; That ventured his Life for the sake of us all , When our Laws they stood tottering , ready to fallen : Then drink about briskly , and let the Bells' ring , At the happy Arrival , etc Through every City and Town as he came , Eeach true Loyal heart did his Glory proclaim ; All being transported with Raptures of Joy , For his Royal Presence all Grief did destroy : And Bumpers went round , while the Bells' they did ring , At the happy Arrival , etc The Famous Great City of London also , Their Loyalty likewise in order to show , From her Tower the Guns they did thunder and roar , To carry this joyful good Tidings all over : Then Bumpers went round , and the Bells' they did ring , At the happy Arrival , etc Being thus arrived from the sharp bloody Scene , To the Royal Court , then his Consort the Queen She did with unspeakable Joy him receive , Her Monarch , for whom she so often did grieve : Sweet Music then played , and the Bells' they did ring , To Welcome home William our Sovereign K ing . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . The Joy of Protestants [ For ] King William ' s safe Arrival from the Wars of Ireland , to his Gracious Queen , and his Roy - all Palace ; who Landed in England , at Kings Weston , near Bristol , the Sixth of September , 1690. to the unspeakable Joy of all his loving Subject's . Tune is , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . LEt loyal true Protestants both far and near Rejoice at the welcome good tidings we hear , Our Gracious King William is returned to his TO hrone , Whose valour and Conduct all Europe will own : Let Healths fairly pass now , and Bells' sweetly ring , To welcome , in triumph , Great William our King . Our King to the Irish wars he did go , TO here for to engage with a powerful Foe ; TO his never could daunt his most noble Design , But craved the assistance of Powers Divine : Let Healths fairly pass now , and Bells' sweetly ring , To welcome , in triumph , Great William our King . Our most Royal Prince in the midst of the fight When Bullets from Cannons were taking their flight : Good Angels around him his Person did guard , Protecting the life of our Sovereign Lord : Let Healths freely pass now , and Bells' sweetly ring , To welcome in triumph , Great William our King . The French and the Tories he gave them their endue , Who run , while our Monarch did after pursue : He Cities and Castles full many did clear , And they of his conquering Sword stood in fear : Let Healths freely pass now , and Bells' sweetly ring , To welcome , in triumph , Great William our King . And now having made such a Progress we find , To his brave Commanders the Care he resigned ; Who vow that the Irish Wars they'll maintain , While he to fair England's returned again : Let Healths Boys , go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring At the safe Arrival , etc As soon as King William was entered on Board , The Heavens was pleased in Love to afford A prosperous Gale , which did soon waft him over To the pleasant Coasts of the English Shore , Where Healths they went round , and the Bells' they did ring To welcome home William our Sovereign K ing . As soon as he came to the Shore with his Fleet , Some thousands of People was joyful to meet Our Sovereign , who was with Victory Crowned , While full flowing Bumpers went merrily round : The Cannons did fire , and Bells' they did ring , At the safe Return , etc Then Dukes , Lords , and Commons attended his Train , And wished him a long and a prosperous Reign ; That ventured his Life for the sake of us all , When our Laws they stood tottering , ready to fallen : Then drink about briskly , and let the Bells' ring , At the happy Arrival , etc Through every City and Town as he came , Eeach true Loyal heart did his Glory proclaim ; All being transported with Raptures of Joy , For his Royal Presence all Grief did destroy : And Bumpers went round , while the Bells' they did ring , At the happy Arrival , etc The Famous Great City of London also , Their Loyalty likewise in order to show , From her Tower the Guns they did thunder and roar , To carry this joyful good Tidings all over : Then Bumpers went round , and the Bells' they did ring , At the happy Arrival , etc Being thus arrived from the sharp bloody Scene , To the Royal Court , then his Consort the Queen She did with unspeakable Joy him receive , Her Monarch , for whom she so often did grieve : Sweet Music then played , and the Bells' they did ring , To Welcome home William our Sovereign K ing . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . 