King WILLIAM'S Welcome from Flanders ; OR , The True Protestants Loyal Health For his Happy and Safe Return . Tune of , Marry live Long . Licensed according to Order . LEt Glory and Fame , With loud Acclamations , Flow through the three Nations Great William by Name , Our Conquering King , Is in safety sailed over , To the fair British - shore , from Flanders again , Oh still let him Flourish , Boys still let him Flourish , And long live and Reign . In his absence we mourned , But now we a blessing , In joy are possessing , He's safely Returned Which fills us with joy ; Now in full flowing Bowls , Let all honest Souls , Drink Bumpers amain , And Crown him with wishes , And Crown him with wishes , Of Long live and Rain , We never had a King Could ever come near him ; His Enemies fear him , His Glory shall ring Through Europe brave Boys , For he fears not proud France , But in field does advance With his Warlike Train : Then Crown him with Wishes , Then Crown him with Wishes , Of Long Live and Reign . Soft Lodgings of Down He never admires , His Conduct requires True Fame and Renown , With freedom from Thrall : Now to keep us secure , He the storm did endure With his warlike Train , Then Crown him W ishes , Boys Crown him with W ishes , Of Long Live and Reign . The Powers above Secured him from dangers among Foreign Strangers , Now with Royal love . Let Protestants all Make the Elements Ring . Now with God save the King , Strike all in a Strain , And Crown him with W ishes , Boys Crown him with W ishes , Of Long live and Reign . From the Camp to the Court , Let Triumph attend him , And Mariners send him , By Cannons Report , Their transports of Joy , Through the Realm in all Parts Let a Consort of Hearts , Strike all in a strain : To Crown him with W ishes , Boys C rown him with W ishes , Of , long live and reign . Let every Brow Look Pleasant and Airy Fill Bowls with Canary , Our happiness now We'll freely make known There is none but our Foes , This Health will oppose , Let's drink it again , And C rown him with W ishes , And Crown him with W ishes , Of , long live and reign . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . King WILLIAM'S Welcome from Flanders ; OR , The True Protestants Loyal Health For his Happy and Safe Return . Tune of , Marry live Long . Licensed according to Order . LEt Glory and Fame , With loud Acclamations , Flow through the three Nations Great William by Name , Our Conquering King , Is in safety sailed over , To the fair British - shore , from Flanders again , Oh still let him Flourish , Boys still let him Flourish , And long live and Reign . In his absence we mourned , But now we a blessing , In joy are possessing , He's safely Returned Which fills us with joy ; Now in full flowing Bowls , Let all honest Souls , Drink Bumpers amain , And Crown him with wishes , And Crown him with wishes , Of Long live and Rain , We never had a King Could ever come near him ; His Enemies fear him , His Glory shall ring Through Europe brave Boys , For he fears not proud France , But in field does advance With his Warlike Train : Then Crown him with Wishes , Then Crown him with Wishes , Of Long Live and Reign . Soft Lodgings of Down He never admires , His Conduct requires True Fame and Renown , With freedom from Thrall : Now to keep us secure , He the storm did endure With his warlike Train , Then Crown him W ishes , Boys Crown him with W ishes , Of Long Live and Reign . The Powers above Secured him from dangers among Foreign Strangers , Now with Royal love . Let Protestants all Make the Elements Ring . Now with God save the King , Strike all in a Strain , And Crown him with W ishes , Boys Crown him with W ishes , Of Long live and Reign . From the Camp to the Court , Let Triumph attend him , And Mariners send him , By Cannons Report , Their transports of Joy , Through the Realm in all Parts Let a Consort of Hearts , Strike all in a strain : To Crown him with W ishes , Boys C rown him with W ishes , Of , long live and reign . Let every Brow Look Pleasant and Airy Fill Bowls with Canary , Our happiness now We'll freely make known There is none but our Foes , This Health will oppose , Let's drink it again , And C rown him with W ishes , And Crown him with W ishes , Of , long live and reign . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 