THE Female SOULDIER : OR , The Virgin Volunteer . To the Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . I Sing in the Fame Of a pretty young Dame , And praise of her Warlike behaviour ; With a heart void of fear , She went Volunteer , No Soldier , no Soldier , could ever do braver . JOHN CHANGE , by that Name , To the Marshal she came , Disguised , and said she was willing , To serve their Majesties , On the Land or the Seas ; The Marshal then Listed the Youth with a shilling . Then he Clothed her in Read , Put a Sword by her side , With all things a Soldier adorning : Who at night went to Bed With a young brisk Comrade , And rose undiscovered a Maid in the Morning . So pretty a face . And so comely a Grace , With and Eloquent Tongue so ingenious , Had her new Comrade Known she was a Maid , No doubt he'd a served her as Mars did his Venus . To Tilbury Fort , She was sent , being too short , For the Guards which in Towns now are Quartered : But too young being thought , Was back again brought , Thus all her designs by ill Fortune were thwarted . At the Marshals she lay , Still expecting each day To be Mustered and made a Dragooner : But and unlucky trick , Happened just in the neck , A scurvy Misfortune chanced to light upon her . One Night her Comrade , When they both were in Bed , Mistrusted what he would not tell her : As she lay asleep , Did close to her creep , And found a she Volunteer was his Bedfellow . When the Riddle was known , She arose and run home , With such innocent Blushes they charm ye : Then what need we fear The French coming here , Since young pretty Women run into the Army . Let the Soldiers now raise , A new Trophy in praise Of a Virgin as brave as a Roman : Why may not each Wench , Encounter the French , Since the bravest of Heroes are conquered by Women . Let each jolly Blade , Do then as this Maid , And with Courage go fight for King William : Were all men so stout , We the French soon should rout , Our true English Courage with Terror should fill they FINIS . Printed for C. Bates next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield . THE Female SOULDIER : OR , The Virgin Volunteer . To the Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . I Sing in the Fame Of a pretty young Dame , And praise of her Warlike behaviour ; With a heart void of fear , She went Volunteer , No Soldier , no Soldier , could ever do braver . JOHN CHANGE , by that Name , To the Marshal she came , Disguised , and said she was willing , To serve their Majesties , On the Land or the Seas ; The Marshal then Listed the Youth with a shilling . Then he Clothed her in Read , Put a Sword by her side , With all things a Soldier adorning : Who at night went to Bed With a young brisk Comrade , And rose undiscovered a Maid in the Morning . So pretty a face . And so comely a Grace , With and Eloquent Tongue so ingenious , Had her new Comrade Known she was a Maid , No doubt he'd a served her as Mars did his Venus . To Tilbury Fort , She was sent , being too short , For the Guards which in Towns now are Quartered : But too young being thought , Was back again brought , Thus all her designs by ill Fortune were thwarted . At the Marshals she lay , Still expecting each day To be Mustered and made a Dragooner : But and unlucky trick , Happened just in the neck , A scurvy Misfortune chanced to light upon her . One Night her Comrade , When they both were in Bed , Mistrusted what he would not tell her : As she lay asleep , Did close to her creep , And found a she Volunteer was his Bedfellow . When the Riddle was known , She arose and run home , With such innocent Blushes they charm ye : Then what need we fear The French coming here , Since young pretty Women run into the Army . Let the Soldiers now raise , A new Trophy in praise Of a Virgin as brave as a Roman : Why may not each Wench , Encounter the French , Since the bravest of Heroes are conquered by Women . Let each jolly Blade , Do then as this Maid , And with Courage go fight for King William : Were all men so stout , We the French soon should rout , Our true English Courage with Terror should fill they FINIS . Printed for C. Bates next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield . 