Ungrateful LEWIS , Who Fought against his Old Friend : Together with and Account of his Storming and Taking the Devil's-House over his Head , because he showed him a slippery Trick in his late Fight at Sea , when his Fleet was Fired . To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , Let Cesar Live Long . Licensed according to Order . WHen Noble bold Brittains did Victory gain , The Fleet of Old Lewis was burned on the Main . Which put him straight into a passionate Rage , He vowed his Friend Lucifer now to Engage ; And therefore to Flanders he then did repair , In order for Storming the Devil's House there . Then raising high Bulwarks , loud Cannons did roar , Which thundered and bounced at Old Lucifer ' s Door ; With Thunder he threatened the Prince of the Air , For failing his Friend by his Negligent Care : Like one quite Distracted , Old Lewis did rave , And vowed that the Devil's House soon he would have . The Army of Lewis contending did stand , Who still was repulsed by a vigorous hand ; The Content between them was furious and hight , With Bombs and loud Cannons , with thundering Shot , After long disputing , by showers of Led , He there took the Devil's House over his head . Was this not uncivil , now tell me , I pray , Because on the Ocean he had not the day , That he should lay all the whole blame on Old Neck , And therewith to show him a slippery trick , By thundering Cannons and showers of Led , To Storm , I , and take his House over his head . Now Lucifer thus being turned out of doors By Lewis the French King , and his Sons of Whores , He swears he'll in time be revenged on them all , They first by the Sword of King William shall fallen , Then in burning Sulphur they shall make their Bed , For taking the Devil's-House over his head . If the Devil's-House now is called Hell by name , Then Hell and the Devil's-House must be the same ; Of which let Old Lewis of France be possessed , Where he may for ever lie close in his Nest : It's fit he should have it , and there make his Bed , For taking the Devil's-House over his head . We find he is eager , and covets for Hell , And in those Dark Regions he reckons to dwell ; Let that gloomy Empire in his keeping be , There's no one had ever more right to't than he : With his Friend St. Ruth let him there make his Bed For taking the Devil's-House over his head . Since he such a Conquering Monster is grown , We doubt not in time but he'll make Hell his own ; Where he in the streams of Ambition may swim , And he take the De'el , and the Devil take him : In those gloomy Regions let him make his Bed , For taking the Devil's-House over his head . Old Lucifer now is by Lewis Controlled , His House he has taken to make his strong Hold ; But yet let him know for this horrible Crime , He shall without doubt , be Tormented in time ; In gloomy dark Regions he shall make his Bed , For taking the Devil's-House over his head . Now since he has gained such a Victory there , It seems he resolves to Reign Prince of the Air ; Old Pluto and he now will Partners be , Yet how in their Government they will agree , We know not , but some says , when Lewis is dead , He will take the Devil's Realm over his head . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Bac [ k ] Ungrateful LEWIS , Who Fought against his Old Friend : Together with and Account of his Storming and Taking the Devil's-House over his Head , because he showed him a slippery Trick in his late Fight at Sea , when his Fleet was Fired . To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , Let Cesar Live Long . Licensed according to Order . WHen Noble bold Brittains did Victory gain , The Fleet of Old Lewis was burned on the Main . Which put him straight into a passionate Rage , He vowed his Friend Lucifer now to Engage ; And therefore to Flanders he then did repair , In order for Storming the Devil's House there . Then raising high Bulwarks , loud Cannons did roar , Which thundered and bounced at Old Lucifer ' s Door ; With Thunder he threatened the Prince of the Air , For failing his Friend by his Negligent Care : Like one quite Distracted , Old Lewis did rave , And vowed that the Devil's House soon he would have . The Army of Lewis contending did stand , Who still was repulsed by a vigorous hand ; The Content between them was furious and hight , With Bombs and loud Cannons , with thundering Shot , After long disputing , by showers of Led , He there took the Devil's House over his head . Was this not uncivil , now tell me , I pray , Because on the Ocean he had not the day , That he should lay all the whole blame on Old Neck , And therewith to show him a slippery trick , By thundering Cannons and showers of Led , To Storm , I , and take his House over his head . Now Lucifer thus being turned out of doors By Lewis the French King , and his Sons of Whores , He swears he'll in time be revenged on them all , They first by the Sword of King William shall fallen , Then in burning Sulphur they shall make their Bed , For taking the Devil's-House over his head . If the Devil's-House now is called Hell by name , Then Hell and the Devil's-House must be the same ; Of which let Old Lewis of France be possessed , Where he may for ever lie close in his Nest : It's fit he should have it , and there make his Bed , For taking the Devil's-House over his head . We find he is eager , and covets for Hell , And in those Dark Regions he reckons to dwell ; Let that gloomy Empire in his keeping be , There's no one had ever more right to't than he : With his Friend St. Ruth let him there make his Bed For taking the Devil's-House over his head . Since he such a Conquering Monster is grown , We doubt not in time but he'll make Hell his own ; Where he in the streams of Ambition may swim , And he take the De'el , and the Devil take him : In those gloomy Regions let him make his Bed , For taking the Devil's-House over his head . Old Lucifer now is by Lewis Controlled , His House he has taken to make his strong Hold ; But yet let him know for this horrible Crime , He shall without doubt , be Tormented in time ; In gloomy dark Regions he shall make his Bed , For taking the Devil's-House over his head . Now since he has gained such a Victory there , It seems he resolves to Reign Prince of the Air ; Old Pluto and he now will Partners be , Yet how in their Government they will agree , We know not , but some says , when Lewis is dead , He will take the Devil's Realm over his head . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Bac [ k ] 