The Valiant Soldier's Misfortune : OR , His Grace the Duke of Schomberg is last Farewell . To the Tune of The Soldier's Departure . Licensed according to Order . L ET all noble stout Commanders , likewise Soldiers Foot and Horse ; Both in England , Holland , Flanders , now lament this heavy Loss Of a right Renowned Leader , who did many Fights maintain ; The Duke Schomberg , gentle Reader , he in Ireland was slave . With a right heroic Spirit , he was evermore endued ; Fame and Glory did he merit , as his Foes he still subdued : Where the Guns did roar like Thunder , bloody F ights he did maintain , Filling all the World with Wonder , but Great Schombergh now is slave . At the H ead of warlike Forces , did he place his chief Delight , Taking such effectual Courses , that his Foes he put to flight : While the Warlike Drums did rattle , bloody Fights he did maintain ; Never did he loose a Battle , yet Great Schomberg now is slave . Though great Councils did assemble to oppose him in the Field ; Yet he made them quake and tremble , and as soon submit and yield . Nay , his very Name they dreaded , causing them to fly amain , Many Armies hath he headed , yet at last he now is slave . Righteous Causes he defended , and would wronged Monarchs right ; So that Blessing still attended him in shining Armour bright : By the Sword he purchased Glory , which the World can never stain , Though he by a Rebel Tory was in a sharp Battle slave . H e in warlike flaming Fire , Salamander - like did live ; Nothing did he more desire , than a fatal stroke to give To a rude Rebellious Faction , who in Villainies did Reign ; But in the late Irish Actium Noble Schomberg he was slave . Pale-faced Death has now confined him in a narrow silent Tomb ; Yet a Name he left behind himer sweeter than a rich Perfum Let his Actions be recorded in the lasting Rolls of Fame ; In another World rewarded , Noble Schomberg who was slave . Though his Death may be lamented , France shall have no Cause to boast . Their Designs will be prevented , by our warlike armed Host : Who with Courage will pursue them , Britain is freedom to maintain , And has valiant Courage showed they , though Great Schomberg he is slave . Towns and Castles do's surrender to our right Renowned King , The True Christian F aith's Defender , through the Land his Fame do's Ring : Nay , his very Foes adore him , wishing that he long may reign : Boys , he Conquers all before him , though Great Schomberg he is slave . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Valiant Soldier's Misfortune : OR , His Grace the Duke of Schomberg is last Farewell . To the Tune of The Soldier's Departure . Licensed according to Order . L ET all noble stout Commanders , likewise Soldiers Foot and Horse ; Both in England , Holland , Flanders , now lament this heavy Loss Of a right Renowned Leader , who did many Fights maintain ; The Duke Schomberg , gentle Reader , he in Ireland was slave . With a right heroic Spirit , he was evermore endued ; Fame and Glory did he merit , as his Foes he still subdued : Where the Guns did roar like Thunder , bloody F ights he did maintain , Filling all the World with Wonder , but Great Schombergh now is slave . At the H ead of warlike Forces , did he place his chief Delight , Taking such effectual Courses , that his Foes he put to flight : While the Warlike Drums did rattle , bloody Fights he did maintain ; Never did he loose a Battle , yet Great Schomberg now is slave . Though great Councils did assemble to oppose him in the Field ; Yet he made them quake and tremble , and as soon submit and yield . Nay , his very Name they dreaded , causing them to fly amain , Many Armies hath he headed , yet at last he now is slave . Righteous Causes he defended , and would wronged Monarchs right ; So that Blessing still attended him in shining Armour bright : By the Sword he purchased Glory , which the World can never stain , Though he by a Rebel Tory was in a sharp Battle slave . H e in warlike flaming Fire , Salamander - like did live ; Nothing did he more desire , than a fatal stroke to give To a rude Rebellious Faction , who in Villainies did Reign ; But in the late Irish Actium Noble Schomberg he was slave . Pale-faced Death has now confined him in a narrow silent Tomb ; Yet a Name he left behind himer sweeter than a rich Perfum Let his Actions be recorded in the lasting Rolls of Fame ; In another World rewarded , Noble Schomberg who was slave . Though his Death may be lamented , France shall have no Cause to boast . Their Designs will be prevented , by our warlike armed Host : Who with Courage will pursue them , Britain is freedom to maintain , And has valiant Courage showed they , though Great Schomberg he is slave . Towns and Castles do's surrender to our right Renowned King , The True Christian F aith's Defender , through the Land his Fame do's Ring : Nay , his very Foes adore him , wishing that he long may reign : Boys , he Conquers all before him , though Great Schomberg he is slave . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 