And Excellent N ew Song Called , King William's Welcome home FROM The Wars in Flanders . King William's safe Return from the Camp in Flanders . Tune of , All happy times , etc With Allowance . BRave William He is now come over , And Landed on the English Shore , All Happiness attend our King , Who has in Flanders so long been . Each Year He to the Wars does go , To meet the proud insulting Foe , No Subject ventures more His Blood , And all is for Old England is good . The Summer's gone , the Winter's come , Yet we enjoy the Rising Sun , It's William does Great Britain save , It's He keeps us from being Slaves . To England is Monarch , welcome home , To fit upon the Royal Throne , May all the Land rejoice and Sing , Great William is come , God Save the King . Let Drums now beatrice the Trumpets found , For Joy let all the Bells' Ring [ r ] oh [ un ] worser , Let all the Cannons likewise Roar , A welcome to the British Shore . Make Bon [ f ] ires now e'ry where , Make Fi [ r ] e-works fly in the Air , Let Huzza is in the Street abound , While Joy in e'ry Face be found . Welcome , thrice welcome Royal SIR , From the Fatigues and Toils of War , Unto your Chaste Maria is Arms , Who's made of Love & amp ; Beauty's Charms . What hardship , and what danger too , Does Valiant William undergo , Each Night He in the Field does lie , Each day He's where the Bullets fly . If Actium happen for to fallen , King William is in the midst of all , Though Horses under Him are slave , Yet straight He Mounts to fight again . Now e'ry honest English Lad , With Glass in Hand , and Heart full glad , Drink William is Welcome home again , To's Royal Consort and his Queen . The People in great numbers fly , To see the Royal Pair pass by , And thousands in the street are seen , To cry , God save the King and Queen . Printed and Sold by T. More . And Excellent N ew Song Called , King William's Welcome home FROM The Wars in Flanders . King William's safe Return from the Camp in Flanders . Tune of , All happy times , etc With Allowance . BRave William He is now come over , And Landed on the English Shore , All Happiness attend our King , Who has in Flanders so long been . Each Year He to the Wars does go , To meet the proud insulting Foe , No Subject ventures more His Blood , And all is for Old England is good . The Summer's gone , the Winter's come , Yet we enjoy the Rising Sun , It's William does Great Britain save , It's He keeps us from being Slaves . To England is Monarch , welcome home , To fit upon the Royal Throne , May all the Land rejoice and Sing , Great William is come , God Save the King . Let Drums now beatrice the Trumpets found , For Joy let all the Bells' Ring [ r ] oh [ un ] worser , Let all the Cannons likewise Roar , A welcome to the British Shore . Make Bon [ f ] ires now e'ry where , Make Fi [ r ] e-works fly in the Air , Let Huzza is in the Street abound , While Joy in e'ry Face be found . Welcome , thrice welcome Royal SIR , From the Fatigues and Toils of War , Unto your Chaste Maria is Arms , Who's made of Love & amp ; Beauty's Charms . What hardship , and what danger too , Does Valiant William undergo , Each Night He in the Field does lie , Each day He's where the Bullets fly . If Actium happen for to fallen , King William is in the midst of all , Though Horses under Him are slave , Yet straight He Mounts to fight again . Now e'ry honest English Lad , With Glass in Hand , and Heart full glad , Drink William is Welcome home again , To's Royal Consort and his Queen . The People in great numbers fly , To see the Royal Pair pass by , And thousands in the street are seen , To cry , God save the King and Queen . Printed and Sold by T. More . 