THE Scotch Protestants Courage : OR , The Destruction , Death , and Downfall OF DUNDEE . To the Tune of , Billy and Molly . Licensed according to Order . H Ere's Joyful Tidings now we bring from the brave Scotish Nation , The fame of Protestants shall ring , through Town and Corporation : The Rebel which did led the Van , and over the Mountains scouted , At length brave Boys is dead and gone , and all his Forces routed . The Protestant great General , who led his men to Battle ; Although on both sides some did fallen , while Guns and Drums did rattle The fight they bravely did maintain and while they were about it ; Dundee in field was fairly slave , and all his Rebels routed . Mackay he did the Rebels face , that valiant stout Commander ; And for his Courage seemed to trace the steps of Alexander : His forces he drew up with speed , although the Papists flouted ; He made Dundee in field to bleed , and all his forces routed . In noble shining Armour bright , stout lads both brisk and airy Marched with Mackay in field to fight for William and Queen Marry ; Alas the fray near lasted long , when once we went about it ; Dundee was slave in all the throng , likewise his Rebels routed . Though he at first rid up in state , we soon did blast his Glory ; A Pistol Bullet sent him strait from hence , to Purgatory : His Rebels they did likewise run , and through the Valleys scouted , So that each man and mother's son by Protestants were routed . The Clans and the Mackdonells too , and all the Heathen faction ; When they was told that this was true they all were in Distraction ; There hearts were filled with fear and dread , as through the Vails they scouted ; Still crying out , Dundee is dead , and we shall all be routed . Five hundred Rebels , Foot and Horse , one day a Town did Plunder , But Mackay hearing of that loss , strait after them did Thunder He Charged and Fired in the R [ ear ] as they before him scouted , Till he at last the Coast did clear and they were more than routed . We cut them down as they did fly and stoutly followed after , The Major smote them Hip and Thigh ; In faith with a great slaughter : There some was slave , the rest was tai [ n ] who on our Forces glouted , In this sharp fray , we god the Day and all the Rebels routed . Some say Dundee has flipt his wind , and fled to Purgatory , But some are of another mind ; counting the same a story ; They herd him bid his Men reside , upon the Scotish Borders , While he full Post was forced to Ride away to Hell for Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Scotch Protestants Courage : OR , The Destruction , Death , and Downfall OF DUNDEE . To the Tune of , Billy and Molly . Licensed according to Order . H Ere's Joyful Tidings now we bring from the brave Scotish Nation , The fame of Protestants shall ring , through Town and Corporation : The Rebel which did led the Van , and over the Mountains scouted , At length brave Boys is dead and gone , and all his Forces routed . The Protestant great General , who led his men to Battle ; Although on both sides some did fallen , while Guns and Drums did rattle The fight they bravely did maintain and while they were about it ; Dundee in field was fairly slave , and all his Rebels routed . Mackay he did the Rebels face , that valiant stout Commander ; And for his Courage seemed to trace the steps of Alexander : His forces he drew up with speed , although the Papists flouted ; He made Dundee in field to bleed , and all his forces routed . In noble shining Armour bright , stout lads both brisk and airy Marched with Mackay in field to fight for William and Queen Marry ; Alas the fray near lasted long , when once we went about it ; Dundee was slave in all the throng , likewise his Rebels routed . Though he at first rid up in state , we soon did blast his Glory ; A Pistol Bullet sent him strait from hence , to Purgatory : His Rebels they did likewise run , and through the Valleys scouted , So that each man and mother's son by Protestants were routed . The Clans and the Mackdonells too , and all the Heathen faction ; When they was told that this was true they all were in Distraction ; There hearts were filled with fear and dread , as through the Vails they scouted ; Still crying out , Dundee is dead , and we shall all be routed . Five hundred Rebels , Foot and Horse , one day a Town did Plunder , But Mackay hearing of that loss , strait after them did Thunder He Charged and Fired in the R [ ear ] as they before him scouted , Till he at last the Coast did clear and they were more than routed . We cut them down as they did fly and stoutly followed after , The Major smote them Hip and Thigh ; In faith with a great slaughter : There some was slave , the rest was tai [ n ] who on our Forces glouted , In this sharp fray , we god the Day and all the Rebels routed . Some say Dundee has flipt his wind , and fled to Purgatory , But some are of another mind ; counting the same a story ; They herd him bid his Men reside , upon the Scotish Borders , While he full Post was forced to Ride away to Hell for Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 