The Royal HEALTH . To the Tune of , Hark how the thundering Canons roar , etc Written by THOMAS SIBLEY , Gent. I . LOyal Souls , drink off your Wine , While the Popish Crew repine , We will all our Voices join , With loudest Acclamation . Let each Soul drink off his Glass ; None shall let a Brimer pass : No more Idols , no more Mass , To vex and plague the Nation . II . We that Loyal are will sing , Long live William our great King ; May he be blessed in every thing , May all his Joys grow double . No Grief invade his Royal Breast , Nor with Sorrow be oppressed . May he in all things still be blessed , Both void of Care and Trouble . III . He has well deserved a Crown , That laid his Life and Fortune down To save our Lives exposed his own , Unto the greatest Danger . He ventured all to see us free , From Romes cruel Tyranny : Yet this all was done , you see , By this Heroic Stranger . IV. His Royal Consort , Heavens bless , With everlasting Happiness , While we all our Joys Express , In drinking off Canary : Let briming Bouls go quickly about , We'll drink a Thousand Gallons out ; We never will cease to drink and shout , And cry , God bless Queen Marry . V. Priests shall down , the Pope shall bleed , Since our Nation thus is freed , From the Babylonish Weed , By William , the brave Hero . France shall quake , The Pope shall leer ; Teague shall run away for Fear , Curse his Fate and hang his Ear , And houle out Lero , Lero . VI . Come , here's a Health , I now begin , To our Gracious King and Queen , And to their long and happy Reign , To rule in Peace our Nation . Let them long enjoy the same , And put their Foes to open Shame : Aut let us not be laid i'th Blame , To cause the least Vexation . LONDON , Printed and Sold by John Wallis , in White-Friars . The Royal HEALTH . To the Tune of , Hark how the thundering Canons roar , etc Written by THOMAS SIBLEY , Gent. I . LOyal Souls , drink off your Wine , While the Popish Crew repine , We will all our Voices join , With loudest Acclamation . Let each Soul drink off his Glass ; None shall let a Brimer pass : No more Idols , no more Mass , To vex and plague the Nation . II . We that Loyal are will sing , Long live William our great King ; May he be blessed in every thing , May all his Joys grow double . No Grief invade his Royal Breast , Nor with Sorrow be oppressed . May he in all things still be blessed , Both void of Care and Trouble . III . He has well deserved a Crown , That laid his Life and Fortune down To save our Lives exposed his own , Unto the greatest Danger . He ventured all to see us free , From Romes cruel Tyranny : Yet this all was done , you see , By this Heroic Stranger . IV. His Royal Consort , Heavens bless , With everlasting Happiness , While we all our Joys Express , In drinking off Canary : Let briming Bouls go quickly about , We'll drink a Thousand Gallons out ; We never will cease to drink and shout , And cry , God bless Queen Marry . V. Priests shall down , the Pope shall bleed , Since our Nation thus is freed , From the Babylonish Weed , By William , the brave Hero . France shall quake , The Pope shall leer ; Teague shall run away for Fear , Curse his Fate and hang his Ear , And houle out Lero , Lero . VI . Come , here's a Health , I now begin , To our Gracious King and Queen , And to their long and happy Reign , To rule in Peace our Nation . Let them long enjoy the same , And put their Foes to open Shame : Aut let us not be laid i'th Blame , To cause the least Vexation . LONDON , Printed and Sold by John Wallis , in White-Friars . 