THE Triumph of Ireland ; OR , England ' s Happiness , in the Army's Conquest over the Re - bells at Aghram , near Bellinasloe , on the 12 th of July , where they slew five thousand of the Enemy , taking their Baggage and Cannon , and giving them a total defeat . To the Tune of , The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . L Et Peals of Bells' most sweetly Ring , and Loyal Healths go freely round , For here right Joyful News I bring , our Army is with Conquest Crowned ; While Rebels they are overthrown , That Land we soon shall make our own . Upon the twelfth day of July , we passed the River Shannon , Boys , To gain a famous Victory , over the French and the Dear-Joys ; We fought , and they were overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . When they our Army did espy , approach with shining Armour bright , Unto the Bogs they strait did fly , their Passes to maintain and fight ; They were repulsed and overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . From Bogs & amp ; Hills our Troops did drive the Tories that were Posted there , Or few would have been left alive , but that they did with speed repair To Camp where they were overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . Full eight & amp ; twenty thousand men , these Forces were , of Foot and Horse , But as we did Attack them then , their whole design we soon did cross ; They routed were , and overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . From Trench to trench , brave boys we beatrice the French and Tory Enemies , Our fire forced them to retreat , with many bitter groans and cries ; They being beatrice and overthrown , That Kingdom soon will be our own . Like Noble Heroes of Renown , we soon did make the Rebels yield , While Ranks and F isles we there cut down , our Swords did sweetly reap the field ; They routed were , and overthrown , That Kingdom soon will be our own . The Armies both engaged did fight , full three long hours sharp dispute , At length the dark and gloomy Night , did stop us in our swift pursuit ; Our Foes are fled and overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . The Rebels never fought so well , nor stood the field so long before ; Above six thousand of them fell , and lay in streams of reeking Gore ; Their Army now is overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . We did with Courage them pursue , and gained the Conquest of the day , Their Baggage , nay , and Cannon too , with all they had become our Prey ; Thus were the Rebels ovethrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . To play likewise a Warlike tune , for Galloway we next shall go , And if they don't surrender soon , we'll lay their lofty Buildings low ; The storm is almost overblown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . The King & amp ; Queen , may Heavens bless , with lasting Trophies of Renown , And grant their Armies good Success , to pull the Pride of Lewis down , The which we hope ever long to see , That Europe may from Wars be free . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. BackTHE Triumph of Ireland ; OR , England ' s Happiness , in the Army's Conquest over the Re - bells at Aghram , near Bellinasloe , on the 12 th of July , where they slew five thousand of the Enemy , taking their Baggage and Cannon , and giving them a total defeat . To the Tune of , The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . L Et Peals of Bells' most sweetly Ring , and Loyal Healths go freely round , For here right Joyful News I bring , our Army is with Conquest Crowned ; While Rebels they are overthrown , That Land we soon shall make our own . Upon the twelfth day of July , we passed the River Shannon , Boys , To gain a famous Victory , over the French and the Dear-Joys ; We fought , and they were overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . When they our Army did espy , approach with shining Armour bright , Unto the Bogs they strait did fly , their Passes to maintain and fight ; They were repulsed and overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . From Bogs & amp ; Hills our Troops did drive the Tories that were Posted there , Or few would have been left alive , but that they did with speed repair To Camp where they were overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . Full eight & amp ; twenty thousand men , these Forces were , of Foot and Horse , But as we did Attack them then , their whole design we soon did cross ; They routed were , and overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . From Trench to trench , brave boys we beatrice the French and Tory Enemies , Our fire forced them to retreat , with many bitter groans and cries ; They being beatrice and overthrown , That Kingdom soon will be our own . Like Noble Heroes of Renown , we soon did make the Rebels yield , While Ranks and F isles we there cut down , our Swords did sweetly reap the field ; They routed were , and overthrown , That Kingdom soon will be our own . The Armies both engaged did fight , full three long hours sharp dispute , At length the dark and gloomy Night , did stop us in our swift pursuit ; Our Foes are fled and overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . The Rebels never fought so well , nor stood the field so long before ; Above six thousand of them fell , and lay in streams of reeking Gore ; Their Army now is overthrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . We did with Courage them pursue , and gained the Conquest of the day , Their Baggage , nay , and Cannon too , with all they had become our Prey ; Thus were the Rebels ovethrown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . To play likewise a Warlike tune , for Galloway we next shall go , And if they don't surrender soon , we'll lay their lofty Buildings low ; The storm is almost overblown , That Kingdom will be soon our own . The King & amp ; Queen , may Heavens bless , with lasting Trophies of Renown , And grant their Armies good Success , to pull the Pride of Lewis down , The which we hope ever long to see , That Europe may from Wars be free . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back 