The Royal LETTER To our Gracious Queen MARY , from his Majesty in FLANDERS : Who at the Head of Fifty Thousand Men is going to Raise The Siege of MONS . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey's Marched away . Licensed according to Order . TO my Gracious Queen I send These Lines , the which I recommend With a Princely Love and Royal care ; My long absence still with patience bear : While in Flanders I'll remain , With a right Valiant Warlike Train ; Which I am resolved now to head , Boys as bold as ever Europe bred : Therefore I'll stay , and clear the way , Showing all our Enemies fair Play ; For though they boast , our Armed Host , Ever did , and still shall rule the Roast . All the Princes are agreed , To fallen upon the French with speed , And resolved are to let them know , That we do not fear a daring Foe : With undaunted Courage , we Will soon retrieve our Liberty ; For he shall be hemned on e'ry side , Thus we will subdue his haughty Pride : Now we repair to Brussels , where Both the Foot and Horse with Martial Care , Will Randevew , and soon renew , First a double Strength and Courage too . Fifty thousand Men and more , As good as ever Armour boar , Who will lose their Lives before they'll yield , These are ready now to take the Field : It's not Lewis that we fear , We'll charge him in the Front and Rear ; True undaunted Courage they shall find , Till they fly like Chaff before the Wind : Trumpets shall found , and Balls rebound , While the loud-mouthed Cannons roar all round , Courage we'll take , and likewise make The vast Centre of the Earth to shake . MONS the French now lies before , But some are laid in Reeking Gore , For the Forces often Sallied out , And like valiant Noble Hero's fought : Seven hundred they cut down , Of French , which lay before the Town , This does cause their very hearts to ache , Fearing they the Town shall never take : Likewise it's clear , it does appear , That the Garrison is void of fear , And does not doubt , but to hold out , Till I come and give Mounsier the Rout. And their loss will soon enlarge , When we our Cannon to discharge , In the Bowels of their Armed Band . For my Boys we'll fight with heart and hand ; Shot as thick as showers of Hail , We'll send them with a Flaming Gale , Thus between my Army and the Towen , We shall brung the Pride of Lewis down : Him I defy , they soon shall fly , Or I'll know a Legal reason why ; If this sharp sceen , does quench his spleen , I'll return to thee , my Royal Queen . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown [ Tavern ] near Duck-Lane in West-Smithfield . The Royal LETTER To our Gracious Queen MARY , from his Majesty in FLANDERS : Who at the Head of Fifty Thousand Men is going to Raise The Siege of MONS . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey's Marched away . Licensed according to Order . TO my Gracious Queen I send These Lines , the which I recommend With a Princely Love and Royal care ; My long absence still with patience bear : While in Flanders I'll remain , With a right Valiant Warlike Train ; Which I am resolved now to head , Boys as bold as ever Europe bred : Therefore I'll stay , and clear the way , Showing all our Enemies fair Play ; For though they boast , our Armed Host , Ever did , and still shall rule the Roast . All the Princes are agreed , To fallen upon the French with speed , And resolved are to let them know , That we do not fear a daring Foe : With undaunted Courage , we Will soon retrieve our Liberty ; For he shall be hemned on e'ry side , Thus we will subdue his haughty Pride : Now we repair to Brussels , where Both the Foot and Horse with Martial Care , Will Randevew , and soon renew , First a double Strength and Courage too . Fifty thousand Men and more , As good as ever Armour boar , Who will lose their Lives before they'll yield , These are ready now to take the Field : It's not Lewis that we fear , We'll charge him in the Front and Rear ; True undaunted Courage they shall find , Till they fly like Chaff before the Wind : Trumpets shall found , and Balls rebound , While the loud-mouthed Cannons roar all round , Courage we'll take , and likewise make The vast Centre of the Earth to shake . MONS the French now lies before , But some are laid in Reeking Gore , For the Forces often Sallied out , And like valiant Noble Hero's fought : Seven hundred they cut down , Of French , which lay before the Town , This does cause their very hearts to ache , Fearing they the Town shall never take : Likewise it's clear , it does appear , That the Garrison is void of fear , And does not doubt , but to hold out , Till I come and give Mounsier the Rout. And their loss will soon enlarge , When we our Cannon to discharge , In the Bowels of their Armed Band . For my Boys we'll fight with heart and hand ; Shot as thick as showers of Hail , We'll send them with a Flaming Gale , Thus between my Army and the Towen , We shall brung the Pride of Lewis down : Him I defy , they soon shall fly , Or I'll know a Legal reason why ; If this sharp sceen , does quench his spleen , I'll return to thee , my Royal Queen . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown [ Tavern ] near Duck-Lane in West-Smithfield . 