IRELANDS Happiness . OR , King WILLIAMS Safe Arrival at Carigfergus , On the Fourteenth of this In - stant June , To the Unspeakable Joy of the Protestant Army . Tune of , Let Cesar Live long , etc Licensed according to Order . L Et all Loyal Subject's now freely Rejoice , And let forth your Mirth with and audable voice ; King William in safety Arrived to the shore Of Ireland , where the loud Cannon did Roar , Expressing their Joy , that he came to pursue , And Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . At brave Carigfergus King William did Land. Met by the Duke Schomberg and the Armed Band , And other Commanders of e'ry degree , All freely expressing of true Loyalty , With our Mighty Monarch the Wars they'll pursue , Until they have Conquered the Irish Crew . The Drums they did beatrice and the Trumpets did found , While Healths through the Army went merrily round , With , God save King William , for whom we will fight , The wrongs of this Nation in order to right : In Person the Irish Wars he'l pursue , To Conquer the French and the Rebell'ous Crew , S Ome thousands came flocking wherever he came , With loud Acclamations of joy , to Proclaim In every City his Royal Renown , Resolving to stand by his Protestant Crown : With both Life and Fortune the Wars they'll pursue , To Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . All possible joy that the Land could afford , Was truly expressed to our Sovereign Lord , Who ventures his Life our Laws to defend , May Heaven for ever prosperity send To all his whole Army , both Loyal and true , That soon he may Conquer that Irish Crew . The Protestant Army does flourish amain , Both Forts , Towns , and Castles they daily regain , The which when our gracious King William beheld , He as with a Transport of Happiness filled : And said , my brave Boys , we the Wars will pursue , To Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . Nay , further , our Monarch was pleased to declare , Saying , my brave Soldiers , all possible care , Shall always be taken for you while I Reign , That none may have any just cause to complain , My Bounty shall be , Sirs , extended to you , When once we have Conquered the Irish Crew . With you my brave Boys , to the Field will I go , Our Protestant Courage will daunt them , I know , The Bogtrotting Tories are subject to run , Who cannot endure the loud noise of a Gun : With Courage and Conduct my L adds we'll pursue , To Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . As soon as King William had ended his Speech , Duke Schomberg he said , May it please you my Liege , You have a brave Army of Boys , that don't fear The Rage and the Malice of haughty Monsieur : There's nothing so hard but they'll venture to do , To Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck Lane , J. Miller at the angel in Litle-Brittain , and Alex Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms , in the Lit - tle Old-Bayly . IRELANDS Happiness . OR , King WILLIAMS Safe Arrival at Carigfergus , On the Fourteenth of this In - stant June , To the Unspeakable Joy of the Protestant Army . Tune of , Let Cesar Live long , etc Licensed according to Order . L Et all Loyal Subject's now freely Rejoice , And let forth your Mirth with and audable voice ; King William in safety Arrived to the shore Of Ireland , where the loud Cannon did Roar , Expressing their Joy , that he came to pursue , And Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . At brave Carigfergus King William did Land. Met by the Duke Schomberg and the Armed Band , And other Commanders of e'ry degree , All freely expressing of true Loyalty , With our Mighty Monarch the Wars they'll pursue , Until they have Conquered the Irish Crew . The Drums they did beatrice and the Trumpets did found , While Healths through the Army went merrily round , With , God save King William , for whom we will fight , The wrongs of this Nation in order to right : In Person the Irish Wars he'l pursue , To Conquer the French and the Rebell'ous Crew , S Ome thousands came flocking wherever he came , With loud Acclamations of joy , to Proclaim In every City his Royal Renown , Resolving to stand by his Protestant Crown : With both Life and Fortune the Wars they'll pursue , To Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . All possible joy that the Land could afford , Was truly expressed to our Sovereign Lord , Who ventures his Life our Laws to defend , May Heaven for ever prosperity send To all his whole Army , both Loyal and true , That soon he may Conquer that Irish Crew . The Protestant Army does flourish amain , Both Forts , Towns , and Castles they daily regain , The which when our gracious King William beheld , He as with a Transport of Happiness filled : And said , my brave Boys , we the Wars will pursue , To Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . Nay , further , our Monarch was pleased to declare , Saying , my brave Soldiers , all possible care , Shall always be taken for you while I Reign , That none may have any just cause to complain , My Bounty shall be , Sirs , extended to you , When once we have Conquered the Irish Crew . With you my brave Boys , to the Field will I go , Our Protestant Courage will daunt them , I know , The Bogtrotting Tories are subject to run , Who cannot endure the loud noise of a Gun : With Courage and Conduct my L adds we'll pursue , To Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . As soon as King William had ended his Speech , Duke Schomberg he said , May it please you my Liege , You have a brave Army of Boys , that don't fear The Rage and the Malice of haughty Monsieur : There's nothing so hard but they'll venture to do , To Conquer the French and the Irish Crew . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck Lane , J. Miller at the angel in Litle-Brittain , and Alex Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms , in the Lit - tle Old-Bayly . 