The New Courageous Conquest : OR , The Town of Athlone in Ireland Stormed and Taken , On the 30th . of June , 1691 , by the Courage and Conduct of General Ginkle , to the great Joy of the English Forces , and unspeakable Consternation of the Irish Rebels . To the Tune of Valiant Jockey . S Owned the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum , Right joyful News once more is come From the Army , now in Ireland , Which does like true men of Courage stand ; Valiant Ginkle brave and bold , Led on his nobles Hearts of Gold , Storming Athlone there most furiously , Till they made the Rebbel Tories fly ; Both night and day , great Guns did play , For we were resolved to clear the way . Teagues they did groan as Bombs were thrown . While we stormed the Town of fair Athlone . Boys the Buildings of the Town , With Cannon-Balls we batter down , Trumpets sounding all the while that we Were expressing of our Bravery ; Being then resolved to die , Or to obtain the Victory , Therefore with a Resolution bent , To the face of the Proud Foe we went ; They shot amain , yet few was slave , For we soon returned the like again : It is well known , twenty for one , We did slay in storming of Athlone . Then the River did we found , And by that means a Ford we found ; through which we were resolved to wade , While the roaring Cannons sweetly played ; Fifteen-Hundred Granadiers , Stout Valiant Soldiers void of Fears , Marched through this River deep and wde , To assault and storm the other side : Shot did abound , Huzza's all round , While we made the Element resound : Teague in his tone Cried Ah hone ! ah hone ! Now Be-Criest at length we loose Athlone . Colonel Talmash being here As a Renowned Volunteer ; Likewise many more Commanders , who Had right warlike Skill and Conduct too ; This maintained our Courage , so That we could Fight and Scorn the Foe , Falling on with vigour , might , and main , Till a Thousand Tories there lay slave : Now at the sighed some took their flight , For Be-Criest , they were afraid to Fight : Ah hone ! ah hone ! This was the Tone , Teague has lost the Town of fair Athlone . Thus in Triumph and Renown , Brave Boys we stormed and wone the Toown , While the Tories cried out Hone a credit , Whedder shall we now for safety flee ; Great King William's Armed Host , they are resolved to rule the Roast : Dub , a dub , a dub , their Drums do beatrice , While in sad disorder we retreat , Our Foot and Horse , deir Foreheads cross , Yet poor Teague he suffers all the loss : A hone ! a hone ! this is their Mone , Teague has lost the Town of fair Athlone . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The New Courageous Conquest : OR , The Town of Athlone in Ireland Stormed and Taken , On the 30th . of June , 1691 , by the Courage and Conduct of General Ginkle , to the great Joy of the English Forces , and unspeakable Consternation of the Irish Rebels . To the Tune of Valiant Jockey . S Owned the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum , Right joyful News once more is come From the Army , now in Ireland , Which does like true men of Courage stand ; Valiant Ginkle brave and bold , Led on his nobles Hearts of Gold , Storming Athlone there most furiously , Till they made the Rebbel Tories fly ; Both night and day , great Guns did play , For we were resolved to clear the way . Teagues they did groan as Bombs were thrown . While we stormed the Town of fair Athlone . Boys the Buildings of the Town , With Cannon-Balls we batter down , Trumpets sounding all the while that we Were expressing of our Bravery ; Being then resolved to die , Or to obtain the Victory , Therefore with a Resolution bent , To the face of the Proud Foe we went ; They shot amain , yet few was slave , For we soon returned the like again : It is well known , twenty for one , We did slay in storming of Athlone . Then the River did we found , And by that means a Ford we found ; through which we were resolved to wade , While the roaring Cannons sweetly played ; Fifteen-Hundred Granadiers , Stout Valiant Soldiers void of Fears , Marched through this River deep and wde , To assault and storm the other side : Shot did abound , Huzza's all round , While we made the Element resound : Teague in his tone Cried Ah hone ! ah hone ! Now Be-Criest at length we loose Athlone . Colonel Talmash being here As a Renowned Volunteer ; Likewise many more Commanders , who Had right warlike Skill and Conduct too ; This maintained our Courage , so That we could Fight and Scorn the Foe , Falling on with vigour , might , and main , Till a Thousand Tories there lay slave : Now at the sighed some took their flight , For Be-Criest , they were afraid to Fight : Ah hone ! ah hone ! This was the Tone , Teague has lost the Town of fair Athlone . Thus in Triumph and Renown , Brave Boys we stormed and wone the Toown , While the Tories cried out Hone a credit , Whedder shall we now for safety flee ; Great King William's Armed Host , they are resolved to rule the Roast : Dub , a dub , a dub , their Drums do beatrice , While in sad disorder we retreat , Our Foot and Horse , deir Foreheads cross , Yet poor Teague he suffers all the loss : A hone ! a hone ! this is their Mone , Teague has lost the Town of fair Athlone . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 