THE Protestant VICTORY ; Being , the Glorious Conquest obtained by their Ma - jesty's Forces , in the Kingdom of IRELAND : Where they Routed the Rebels , taking all their Baggage , and Cannon , Slaying five thousand on the Spot . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey . Licensed according to Order . L Et us now with joy Proclaim , The Glory and renowned Fame , Of a valiant Army which does Fight , Putting Rebell-Tories to their flight : Since the storming fair Athlone , They have been beatrice and overthrown In a sharp and bloody Battle , where Cannons Roar like Thunder in the Air : Over Hill and Dale , we did them assail , Sending flighting-shot like showers of Hail , We did appear , Boys , bold of fear , That of Rebels we the Land may clear . In the Bogs they Posted were , To which we straightways did repair , And with fire did them so salute , That they were not able to dispute , Therefore did they out of hand , Fly to their mighty Armed Band , Which was Posted on a mighty Hill , Thither did we March with right good will : But when they see our bravery , Many of the Teagues cried bitterly , Hub , bub , a boo , what shall we do , They will kill and take our Nation too . Still we charged them home brave Boys , Thus while our noble Warlike noise , Echoed round the Hills and Vales also , This did soon amaze the daring foe , For as we did them assail , Their Horse did presently turn rail , And with double speed away did fly , Biding Teague that fought on foot , good buy : Sarsfield would fain , rally them again , But they rid and still cried out amain , They in a tweague , marched on three League , For to put thee kill upon poor Teague . Therefore still be-Chreest we'll fly , It's better then return and die , For they'll serve us as they did before , Lay poor Teagues in streams of reeking Gore : With this resolution bent , The Tory Troops away they went , But the foot alas , was forced to stand , Where they fought like men with heart & amp ; hand For they did fight , till gloomy night , Then their foot did venture to take flight ; Their Warlike Train , we did obtain , And five thousand Tories there lay slave . Thus the Rebels did we maul , Taking their Baggage , Guns and all , Many of their great Commanders too , Thus with vigor we the work pursue : In this noble Actium then , We hardly lost five hundred Men , But the Rebels they are scattered so , That their Courage will be soon brought low : At Galloway , our Guns shall play , If they do not yield without delay , For we'll pursue French and Tories too , Till we clear the Land of all the crew . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . THE Protestant VICTORY ; Being , the Glorious Conquest obtained by their Ma - jesty's Forces , in the Kingdom of IRELAND : Where they Routed the Rebels , taking all their Baggage , and Cannon , Slaying five thousand on the Spot . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey . Licensed according to Order . L Et us now with joy Proclaim , The Glory and renowned Fame , Of a valiant Army which does Fight , Putting Rebell-Tories to their flight : Since the storming fair Athlone , They have been beatrice and overthrown In a sharp and bloody Battle , where Cannons Roar like Thunder in the Air : Over Hill and Dale , we did them assail , Sending flighting-shot like showers of Hail , We did appear , Boys , bold of fear , That of Rebels we the Land may clear . In the Bogs they Posted were , To which we straightways did repair , And with fire did them so salute , That they were not able to dispute , Therefore did they out of hand , Fly to their mighty Armed Band , Which was Posted on a mighty Hill , Thither did we March with right good will : But when they see our bravery , Many of the Teagues cried bitterly , Hub , bub , a boo , what shall we do , They will kill and take our Nation too . Still we charged them home brave Boys , Thus while our noble Warlike noise , Echoed round the Hills and Vales also , This did soon amaze the daring foe , For as we did them assail , Their Horse did presently turn rail , And with double speed away did fly , Biding Teague that fought on foot , good buy : Sarsfield would fain , rally them again , But they rid and still cried out amain , They in a tweague , marched on three League , For to put thee kill upon poor Teague . Therefore still be-Chreest we'll fly , It's better then return and die , For they'll serve us as they did before , Lay poor Teagues in streams of reeking Gore : With this resolution bent , The Tory Troops away they went , But the foot alas , was forced to stand , Where they fought like men with heart & amp ; hand For they did fight , till gloomy night , Then their foot did venture to take flight ; Their Warlike Train , we did obtain , And five thousand Tories there lay slave . Thus the Rebels did we maul , Taking their Baggage , Guns and all , Many of their great Commanders too , Thus with vigor we the work pursue : In this noble Actium then , We hardly lost five hundred Men , But the Rebels they are scattered so , That their Courage will be soon brought low : At Galloway , our Guns shall play , If they do not yield without delay , For we'll pursue French and Tories too , Till we clear the Land of all the crew . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . 