The Bloody PLOT : OR , A horrid Conspiracy against the Life of His Sacred Majesty , hap - pily discovered , and many of the Conspiraters taken , in order to be brought to Justice . To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell , etc Y Ou bloody minded Sons of Rome , when will you leave this trade Of Plotting ? see your dismal doom , you that would fain have laid Your cruel hands upon the King , William the Great by Name ; This will yourselves to ruin bring , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . A more victorious King than he , could never grace the Throne , Both far and near by Land and Sea , his Conduct is well known , Who ventures for the Nation's good , his Life in warlike fame ; How could you think to shed his Blood ? o ! Traitors , blush for shame . How often has he pardoned those , who were his Enemies ? His Mercy like a Fountain flows , which Villains seldom prize ; But rather grow more insolent , and won't their Lives reclaim , For which too late they may repent , now , Traitors , blush for shame . You dig a Pit for other Men , and fallen yourselves therein , For there's a God who sees you when , such Treasons you begin , And makes a clear discovery of what I weep to name , For your intended Villainy , bold Traitors , blush for shame . The Duke of Barwick , we are told , was active in this Land , With other Traitors manifold , who took this Plot in hand ; They reckoned to have killed the King , of royal Birth and Fame , And all the Realm to ruin bring , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . They thought , when he a hunting rid , for to have struck the blow , But God he did that Crime forbid , and let our Monarch know , Their horrid bloody base design , for which some hither came ; He's blessed by Providence divine , then , Traitors , blush for shame . And likewise as his Majesty , went to the House of Prayer , It feems , this bloody Tragedy , was to be acted there ; But blessed be the Lord on high , his Mercy let's proclaim , Who guards our King continually , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . The Lord's Anointed who shall touch , by either Word or Deed , His Wrath shall surely punish such , that Villains like proceed Against our royal crowned Head , of Dignity and Fame ; His royal Blood you thought to shed , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . Our Enemies they fret and shafe , because they han't their Will ; But thanks to God , the King is safe from all their Malice still , He keeps him safe both night and day , o , blessed be his Name , While bloody-minded Traitors they have cause to blush for shame . If God he had not stood our Friend , they had our Ruin wrought ; Therefore let those who did offend , be now to Justice brought , Who thought to dispossess the Throne , by a rebellious Flame , A deeper Plot scarce ever was known , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . Since God was pleased to manifest his Favours to this Land ; Oh! let his Mercies be expressed , all round on ever hand : To him alone all Praise is due , then let's adore his Name , Who saved the King and Nation too , and clothes our Foes with shame . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Bloody PLOT : OR , A horrid Conspiracy against the Life of His Sacred Majesty , hap - pily discovered , and many of the Conspiraters taken , in order to be brought to Justice . To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell , etc Y Ou bloody minded Sons of Rome , when will you leave this trade Of Plotting ? see your dismal doom , you that would fain have laid Your cruel hands upon the King , William the Great by Name ; This will yourselves to ruin bring , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . A more victorious King than he , could never grace the Throne , Both far and near by Land and Sea , his Conduct is well known , Who ventures for the Nation's good , his Life in warlike fame ; How could you think to shed his Blood ? o ! Traitors , blush for shame . How often has he pardoned those , who were his Enemies ? His Mercy like a Fountain flows , which Villains seldom prize ; But rather grow more insolent , and won't their Lives reclaim , For which too late they may repent , now , Traitors , blush for shame . You dig a Pit for other Men , and fallen yourselves therein , For there's a God who sees you when , such Treasons you begin , And makes a clear discovery of what I weep to name , For your intended Villainy , bold Traitors , blush for shame . The Duke of Barwick , we are told , was active in this Land , With other Traitors manifold , who took this Plot in hand ; They reckoned to have killed the King , of royal Birth and Fame , And all the Realm to ruin bring , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . They thought , when he a hunting rid , for to have struck the blow , But God he did that Crime forbid , and let our Monarch know , Their horrid bloody base design , for which some hither came ; He's blessed by Providence divine , then , Traitors , blush for shame . And likewise as his Majesty , went to the House of Prayer , It feems , this bloody Tragedy , was to be acted there ; But blessed be the Lord on high , his Mercy let's proclaim , Who guards our King continually , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . The Lord's Anointed who shall touch , by either Word or Deed , His Wrath shall surely punish such , that Villains like proceed Against our royal crowned Head , of Dignity and Fame ; His royal Blood you thought to shed , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . Our Enemies they fret and shafe , because they han't their Will ; But thanks to God , the King is safe from all their Malice still , He keeps him safe both night and day , o , blessed be his Name , While bloody-minded Traitors they have cause to blush for shame . If God he had not stood our Friend , they had our Ruin wrought ; Therefore let those who did offend , be now to Justice brought , Who thought to dispossess the Throne , by a rebellious Flame , A deeper Plot scarce ever was known , o ! Traitors , blush for shame . Since God was pleased to manifest his Favours to this Land ; Oh! let his Mercies be expressed , all round on ever hand : To him alone all Praise is due , then let's adore his Name , Who saved the King and Nation too , and clothes our Foes with shame . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 