THE City and Country's Loyalty ; OR , The Gallant Resolution of the Kingdom to Defend the same against the Invasion of the French , Voluntarily Engaging thmeselves in the Defence of King William Queen and Marry . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey , etc . L Et the Trumpets found a Charge , While we our Forces do enlarge , To Engage the common Enemy ; Boys , we'll either win the day or die : All the Counties far and near , In shining Armour now appear , With a Resolution will they stand , To defend and Guard their Native Land : All will Unite , and freely Fight , For to put the Roman now to flight ; Better Advance , there take our chance , Than to bear the heavy Yoke of France . Though the Frenchmen Landed are , We for their coming did prepare , Showing them such welcome to the Shore , Which they never did expect before : None shall ever return again , For with our Valiant Warlike Train ; We will Ring the Rogues a Passing-Bell , Sending them with speed to Pluto's Cell ; We'll never flinch , from the proud French , Till we cut them off , both Root and Branch ; Why should we fear , huffing Monsieur , Valiant Courage soon the Coast will clear . The Stout Valiant Men of Kent , [ All with ] a Resolution bent , [ ? ] engage to meet this Mighty Foe , Surry , Suffex , did the like also : When the French did understand , That they would thus defend the Land ; They were forced straight to hoist up Sail , Knowing that they should not there prevail : De French-men said , me are afraid , If deir Kingdom here we should Invade , Youthful and Sage , all will Engage , Not a French-man will escape deir Rage . Then they Steered to the West , Which Shires as well as all the rest , Was resolved to let the French-men know , That they should not unrewarded go : While they Anchored in Torbay , The Beacons Fired was straightway , Which allarumed all the Counties round , Loyal Boys with double Courage Crowned : No frightful Cries , all straight did rise , That they might the French-men soon surprise ; Both Rich and Poor , flocked to the Shore , Twenty thousand Fighting-men and more . London likewise will maintain , For our Defence a Warlike Train , Valiant Men of Courage , Foot and Horse , That they may the wretched Roman cross : Though the Factious seem to Frown , We'll pull their haughty Spirits down : For our Gracious King and Queen we'll Fight , Putting all their Enemies to flight : The Royal Fleet , Boys , we'll complete , Which will make the French-man soon Retreat ; Both Land and Main , we will maintain , TIll our Gracious King returns again . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown - Tavern , at Duck Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . THE City and Country's Loyalty ; OR , The Gallant Resolution of the Kingdom to Defend the same against the Invasion of the French , Voluntarily Engaging thmeselves in the Defence of King William Queen and Marry . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey , etc . L Et the Trumpets found a Charge , While we our Forces do enlarge , To Engage the common Enemy ; Boys , we'll either win the day or die : All the Counties far and near , In shining Armour now appear , With a Resolution will they stand , To defend and Guard their Native Land : All will Unite , and freely Fight , For to put the Roman now to flight ; Better Advance , there take our chance , Than to bear the heavy Yoke of France . Though the Frenchmen Landed are , We for their coming did prepare , Showing them such welcome to the Shore , Which they never did expect before : None shall ever return again , For with our Valiant Warlike Train ; We will Ring the Rogues a Passing-Bell , Sending them with speed to Pluto's Cell ; We'll never flinch , from the proud French , Till we cut them off , both Root and Branch ; Why should we fear , huffing Monsieur , Valiant Courage soon the Coast will clear . The Stout Valiant Men of Kent , [ All with ] a Resolution bent , [ ? ] engage to meet this Mighty Foe , Surry , Suffex , did the like also : When the French did understand , That they would thus defend the Land ; They were forced straight to hoist up Sail , Knowing that they should not there prevail : De French-men said , me are afraid , If deir Kingdom here we should Invade , Youthful and Sage , all will Engage , Not a French-man will escape deir Rage . Then they Steered to the West , Which Shires as well as all the rest , Was resolved to let the French-men know , That they should not unrewarded go : While they Anchored in Torbay , The Beacons Fired was straightway , Which allarumed all the Counties round , Loyal Boys with double Courage Crowned : No frightful Cries , all straight did rise , That they might the French-men soon surprise ; Both Rich and Poor , flocked to the Shore , Twenty thousand Fighting-men and more . London likewise will maintain , For our Defence a Warlike Train , Valiant Men of Courage , Foot and Horse , That they may the wretched Roman cross : Though the Factious seem to Frown , We'll pull their haughty Spirits down : For our Gracious King and Queen we'll Fight , Putting all their Enemies to flight : The Royal Fleet , Boys , we'll complete , Which will make the French-man soon Retreat ; Both Land and Main , we will maintain , TIll our Gracious King returns again . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown - Tavern , at Duck Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 