The Young-Mans Vindication AGAINST The Virgins Complaint . S he railed against Youngmen in a passion great , But he more mildly seems with her to treat , Youngmen are not so bad as she would make them , Some Maids are full as bad , how ever you take them , To the Tune of , The Virgins complaint ; Or , Cupids Courtesy . The answer to depp of Love . S Weet Virgin hath disdain moved you to passion , Never to love man again , but for the fashion : Was your abuse so great beyond all measure , That you can quite forget , to think of pleasure ? Though one falsehearted man , not to be nam , Made you look pale and wan , must all be blamed ? As if scarce one were good , in a whole City , Your peevish angry mood , I can but pity . Men are not half so bad , as you would make them , More Maidens may be had , if you forsake them ; Therefore I tell you plain , be not disdainful , If Cupid shoot again , you'll find it painful . Youngmen had need beware , lest they be taken , And drawn into a snare , and so forsaken . Many Maids prove untrue take it for certain , It'll be too late to rue , of a bad bargain . M Aidens falsehearted are , I can report it , Their craft they will not spare , when they are courted : They'll bend unto your vow , their wits are nimble , It's very hard to know , when they dissemble . They'll Powder , Prank and Paint , with each new fangle , Sometime fit like a Saint , for to entangle : Their pretty wanton eyes , are so alluring , Life and death in them lies , killing and curing . Their beauty's like a charm , lovers entrancing , No man receives more harm , then by their glancing , Like Sire's they will sing , their voices ravish , They make the Echoes ring , their tongues are lavish . By such alluring baits , young men are taken , And then it is their fates , to be forsaken : For these enticing Girls , are so unconstant , They're wone and lost again , all in and instant . I have experience had , of their false dealing , Some of them are so bad , they're not worth stealing , If one in half a score , prove to be virtuous , She shall have Suitors store , her love is precious . Now tell me which are best , youngmen or Maidens , I think it's here confessed , both have their failings : Therefore be ruled by me , scorn not a youngman , There's as much truth in him , as in a Woman . Virgins take my advice , be not disdainful , Neither be coy and nice , squeamish nor scornful : It's but a pettish strain , for to love no man , If ever you love again , pray love a youngman . I am resolved now , though some miscarry , I'll have a Virgin too , with her i'll marry : From love i'll not refpain , though it be common , But when I love again , i'll love a Woman . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Young-Mans Vindication AGAINST The Virgins Complaint . S he railed against Youngmen in a passion great , But he more mildly seems with her to treat , Youngmen are not so bad as she would make them , Some Maids are full as bad , how ever you take them , To the Tune of , The Virgins complaint ; Or , Cupids Courtesy . The answer to depp of Love . S Weet Virgin hath disdain moved you to passion , Never to love man again , but for the fashion : Was your abuse so great beyond all measure , That you can quite forget , to think of pleasure ? Though one falsehearted man , not to be nam , Made you look pale and wan , must all be blamed ? As if scarce one were good , in a whole City , Your peevish angry mood , I can but pity . Men are not half so bad , as you would make them , More Maidens may be had , if you forsake them ; Therefore I tell you plain , be not disdainful , If Cupid shoot again , you'll find it painful . Youngmen had need beware , lest they be taken , And drawn into a snare , and so forsaken . Many Maids prove untrue take it for certain , It'll be too late to rue , of a bad bargain . M Aidens falsehearted are , I can report it , Their craft they will not spare , when they are courted : They'll bend unto your vow , their wits are nimble , It's very hard to know , when they dissemble . They'll Powder , Prank and Paint , with each new fangle , Sometime fit like a Saint , for to entangle : Their pretty wanton eyes , are so alluring , Life and death in them lies , killing and curing . Their beauty's like a charm , lovers entrancing , No man receives more harm , then by their glancing , Like Sire's they will sing , their voices ravish , They make the Echoes ring , their tongues are lavish . By such alluring baits , young men are taken , And then it is their fates , to be forsaken : For these enticing Girls , are so unconstant , They're wone and lost again , all in and instant . I have experience had , of their false dealing , Some of them are so bad , they're not worth stealing , If one in half a score , prove to be virtuous , She shall have Suitors store , her love is precious . Now tell me which are best , youngmen or Maidens , I think it's here confessed , both have their failings : Therefore be ruled by me , scorn not a youngman , There's as much truth in him , as in a Woman . Virgins take my advice , be not disdainful , Neither be coy and nice , squeamish nor scornful : It's but a pettish strain , for to love no man , If ever you love again , pray love a youngman . I am resolved now , though some miscarry , I'll have a Virgin too , with her i'll marry : From love i'll not refpain , though it be common , But when I love again , i'll love a Woman . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 