Love without Measure ; OR , The Young Man's Delight , and the Maidens Joy . This young Man wooed a Damosel fair , And called her his Joy and Dear , But she was coy , as Maids will be , And said he came with Flattery : But he did protect it was not so , And at last brought her unto his bow : Now they live in Love , in Peace , and Joy , And she very fain would have a Boy . To a rare new Tune , called , Du-Val's Delight , etc L Ate in the Country as I was walking , Viewing the Meadows so fresh and green There I was aware of two Lovers a talking , Under a bush , but could hardly be seen ; I laid me down and I listened a while , To hear if the Man could the Maiden begulie : But the Maid she was crafty , witty & amp ; loyal , Although many times he put her to the trial And in the conclusion thus he did her woo : My dear Love , my Joy , and my Honey , No tongue can express how dear I love thee , Thou shalt never want for love nor money , If thou wilt but set thy affection on me , For all the fair Beauty's that ever I saw , I still must submit and yield to thy law ; Then unto [ tO ] hy dearest Friend be not so cruel , For thou art my comfort , my joy , & amp ; my jewel , And so I shall count thee until I die . Maid . The Damosel unto him straightway replied , Is it for this you hither me brought ? Your suit at this time it must be denied , I am not a bird that's so easily caught : For Marriage I see is a costly name ; Beside ( quoth she ) i'm too young to marry , This seven years I may very well tarry ; For sorrow & amp ; troubles come fast enough on . A Maiden ( quod she ) knows but little sorrow , Before that in wedlock band she is tied : She has very little to buy or to borrow , & amp ; many times meets with a cross Man beside : Which is the worst grief a Woman can have , She'd better to be set quick in her Grave , Than to have a man that is peevish & amp ; froward , For Men now a days do prove so untoward , It's hard for a Maiden in them to put trust Man. These words my dearest that you have spoken Pierces the tender sick heart of mine , O let true love by you be known , Though I am the Bark , and you are the Vine , Although I am poor , and thou art rich , Slight me not I thee beseech : No Woman yet that ever was gained , Shall be more brave and better maintained : What I speak to thee I will perform . You say that marriage is a hard matter , And those that are single live best at ease ; But with you I do scorn to cog or yet flatter , I will speak my mind then say what you please , She that is single I know she'd be wed , For it is and honour to obtain Marriage = bed , Therefore my dearest doe not abhor me , Thy mother did yield to a man before thee , Then why wilt thou not do as she has done ? Maid . What though my Mother did make adventure , It was a great hazard the which she did run , She had her fortune which God he had sent her , And he unto her proved a right honest Man : But such now a days are hard for to find , Men can so dissemble and turn with the wind , They'll speak a Maid fair & amp ; vow they love her : So i'm resolved a Maiden to die . Some Men now a days have sweethearts adozen , And in the conclusion they'll marry with none , They make it their trade poor Girls to cozen , For ought I know you may be such a one : Your tongue is so tipped & amp ; your words are so fair , Your countenance plainly shows what you are ; That you have been trading with Girls i'th' City And wronged many Maids , the more is the pity , If you be a Bachelor I am mistaken . Man. Oh! you're mistaken much in this matter , The words you speak I know you can't prove , But with you I do scorn is cog or yet flatter , Nor never did try if any could love , But any but thee I vow and do swear , Then prithee be merry and cast away care : Be not so fickle , but look on me blithely , For I am a Lad that is lusty and lively . I'll hug thee and kiss thee ten times of a night , I'll promise no riches nor yet no great treasure , But all that I have thou shalt it command , Although i've but little my love's beyond measure , Then prithee dear grant me thy heart & amp ; hand : Then why should we make any longer delay , But unto the Church now let us away ; The Bride Men and Maids they for us do tarry Therefore my dear tell me when thou'lt marry , If I go without thee I surely shall die . Maid . If that I thought you did not dissemble , I quickly should yield to what you request , But Men's tongues I see can run so nimble , It's hard to trust , and I do protest ; They can so cologue , both flatter and lie , With fair pretences a Maiden to try , They'll kiss them & amp ; hug them until they've wone they And then they forsake they when they've undone they So it's good to be careful who they do trust M an . My fairest and dearest if ever I forsake thee , I wish that nothing may ever thrive with me . Come wealth or woe , no sorrow shall make me , Or cause me once to prove disloyal to thee : Then prithee look chaerful , & amp ; take a sweet kiss , In token of love , no harm is in this ; Let not fickle Fortune no longer you hinder , From a good motion to keep us asunder , But let our hearts be joined in one . The Maiden she hearing what he had spoken , She had no power to [ sa ] y him nay , But gave him a kiss in love as a token , As he unto Church should take her away , Where they was Married I after did hear ; Now she calls him honey , he calls her dear , Though long , at last this young man did gain her , Now in civil habit he bravely maintains her , Let this be a Pattern for Lovers so true . London , Printed by , and for , A.M. and W. D. and sold by the Booksellers of Pye-Corner , and London-Bridge . Love without Measure ; OR , The Young Man's Delight , and the Maidens Joy . This young Man wooed a Damosel fair , And called her his Joy and Dear , But she was coy , as Maids will be , And said he came with Flattery : But he did protect it was not so , And at last brought her unto his bow : Now they live in Love , in Peace , and Joy , And she very fain would have a Boy . To a rare new Tune , called , Du-Val's Delight , etc L Ate in the Country as I was walking , Viewing the Meadows so fresh and green There I was aware of two Lovers a talking , Under a bush , but could hardly be seen ; I laid me down and I listened a while , To hear if the Man could the Maiden begulie : But the Maid she was crafty , witty & amp ; loyal , Although many times he put her to the trial And in the conclusion thus he did her woo : My dear Love , my Joy , and my Honey , No tongue can express how dear I love thee , Thou shalt never want for love nor money , If thou wilt but set thy affection on me , For all the fair Beauty's that ever I saw , I still must submit and yield to thy law ; Then unto [ tO ] hy dearest Friend be not so cruel , For thou art my comfort , my joy , & amp ; my jewel , And so I shall count thee until I die . Maid . The Damosel unto him straightway replied , Is it for this you hither me brought ? Your suit at this time it must be denied , I am not a bird that's so easily caught : For Marriage I see is a costly name ; Beside ( quoth she ) i'm too young to marry , This seven years I may very well tarry ; For sorrow & amp ; troubles come fast enough on . A Maiden ( quod she ) knows but little sorrow , Before that in wedlock band she is tied : She has very little to buy or to borrow , & amp ; many times meets with a cross Man beside : Which is the worst grief a Woman can have , She'd better to be set quick in her Grave , Than to have a man that is peevish & amp ; froward , For Men now a days do prove so untoward , It's hard for a Maiden in them to put trust Man. These words my dearest that you have spoken Pierces the tender sick heart of mine , O let true love by you be known , Though I am the Bark , and you are the Vine , Although I am poor , and thou art rich , Slight me not I thee beseech : No Woman yet that ever was gained , Shall be more brave and better maintained : What I speak to thee I will perform . You say that marriage is a hard matter , And those that are single live best at ease ; But with you I do scorn to cog or yet flatter , I will speak my mind then say what you please , She that is single I know she'd be wed , For it is and honour to obtain Marriage = bed , Therefore my dearest doe not abhor me , Thy mother did yield to a man before thee , Then why wilt thou not do as she has done ? Maid . What though my Mother did make adventure , It was a great hazard the which she did run , She had her fortune which God he had sent her , And he unto her proved a right honest Man : But such now a days are hard for to find , Men can so dissemble and turn with the wind , They'll speak a Maid fair & amp ; vow they love her : So i'm resolved a Maiden to die . Some Men now a days have sweethearts adozen , And in the conclusion they'll marry with none , They make it their trade poor Girls to cozen , For ought I know you may be such a one : Your tongue is so tipped & amp ; your words are so fair , Your countenance plainly shows what you are ; That you have been trading with Girls i'th' City And wronged many Maids , the more is the pity , If you be a Bachelor I am mistaken . Man. Oh! you're mistaken much in this matter , The words you speak I know you can't prove , But with you I do scorn is cog or yet flatter , Nor never did try if any could love , But any but thee I vow and do swear , Then prithee be merry and cast away care : Be not so fickle , but look on me blithely , For I am a Lad that is lusty and lively . I'll hug thee and kiss thee ten times of a night , I'll promise no riches nor yet no great treasure , But all that I have thou shalt it command , Although i've but little my love's beyond measure , Then prithee dear grant me thy heart & amp ; hand : Then why should we make any longer delay , But unto the Church now let us away ; The Bride Men and Maids they for us do tarry Therefore my dear tell me when thou'lt marry , If I go without thee I surely shall die . Maid . If that I thought you did not dissemble , I quickly should yield to what you request , But Men's tongues I see can run so nimble , It's hard to trust , and I do protest ; They can so cologue , both flatter and lie , With fair pretences a Maiden to try , They'll kiss them & amp ; hug them until they've wone they And then they forsake they when they've undone they So it's good to be careful who they do trust M an . My fairest and dearest if ever I forsake thee , I wish that nothing may ever thrive with me . Come wealth or woe , no sorrow shall make me , Or cause me once to prove disloyal to thee : Then prithee look chaerful , & amp ; take a sweet kiss , In token of love , no harm is in this ; Let not fickle Fortune no longer you hinder , From a good motion to keep us asunder , But let our hearts be joined in one . The Maiden she hearing what he had spoken , She had no power to [ sa ] y him nay , But gave him a kiss in love as a token , As he unto Church should take her away , Where they was Married I after did hear ; Now she calls him honey , he calls her dear , Though long , at last this young man did gain her , Now in civil habit he bravely maintains her , Let this be a Pattern for Lovers so true . London , Printed by , and for , A.M. and W. D. and sold by the Booksellers of Pye-Corner , and London-Bridge . 