GUN-POWDER Plot : OR , A Brief Account of that bloody and subtle Design laid against the King , his Lords and Commons in Parliament , and of a Happy Deliverance by Divine Power . To the Tune of Aim not too high . Licensed according to order . TO Rue Protestants I pray you do draw near , Unto this Ditty lend attentive Ear ; The Lines are New although the Subject's Old , Likewise it is as true as ever was told . When James the First in England Reigned King , Under his Royal Gracious Princely Wing Religion flourished both in Court and Town , Which wretched Roman strove to trample down . To their old plotting Trade they strait did go To prove Three Kingdom's final Overthrow ; A Plot contrived by Catholics alone ; The like before or since was never known . Rome is Counsel did together often meet , For to contrive which way they might complete This bloody Treason , which they took in hand Against the King , and Heads of all the Land. At length , these wretched Roman all agreed Which way to make the King and Nation bleed , By Powder , all agree with joint Consent , To Blow up both the King and Parliament . For to keep secret this their Villainy , By solemn Oaths they one another tie : Nay farther , being void of Grace and Shame , Each toak the Sacrament upon the same . Their Treason wrapped in this black Mantle then , Secure and safe from all the Eyes of Men , They did not fear , but by one fatal Blow , To prove the Church and Kingdom's Overthrow . Catesby , with all the other Romish Crew , This Powder Plot did eagerly pursue ; Yet after all their mighty cost and care , Their own Feet soon was taken in the Snare . Under the House of the Great Parliament , This Romish Den , and Devils by consent , The Hellish Powder-Plot they formed there , In hope's to send all flying in the Air . Barrels of Powder privately conveyed , Billets , and Bars of Iron too was laid , To tear up all before them as they flew , A black Invention by this dismal Crew . And with the fatal Blow all must have flown , The gracious King upon his Royal Throne , His gracious Queen , likewise their Princely heir All must have died and perished that was there . The House of Noble Lords of high Degree , By this unheard of bloody Tragedy , Their Limbs in sunder strait would have been tore And filled the Air with noble bloody gore . The worthy learned Judges Grave and Sage , The Commons too , all must have felt Rome is rage Had not the Lord of Love stepped in between Oh! what a dismal Slaughter had there been . The King , the Queen , and Barons of the Land , TO h e Judges , Gentry , did together stand On Ruin's brink , while Room the Blow should give They but the burning of a Match to live . But that Great God that sits in Heaven high He did behold their bloody Treachery , He made their own Handwriting soon betray The Work which they had Plotted many a day . The Lord in Mercy did his Wisdom send Unto the King , his People to Defend , Which did reveal the hidden Powder-Plot , A gracious Mercy never to be forgotten . And brought Room is Faction unto Punishment Which did the Powder Treason first invent , And all that ever Plots , I hope God will , That the true Christian Church may flourish still . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . GUN-POWDER Plot : OR , A Brief Account of that bloody and subtle Design laid against the King , his Lords and Commons in Parliament , and of a Happy Deliverance by Divine Power . To the Tune of Aim not too high . Licensed according to order . TO Rue Protestants I pray you do draw near , Unto this Ditty lend attentive Ear ; The Lines are New although the Subject's Old , Likewise it is as true as ever was told . When James the First in England Reigned King , Under his Royal Gracious Princely Wing Religion flourished both in Court and Town , Which wretched Roman strove to trample down . To their old plotting Trade they strait did go To prove Three Kingdom's final Overthrow ; A Plot contrived by Catholics alone ; The like before or since was never known . Rome is Counsel did together often meet , For to contrive which way they might complete This bloody Treason , which they took in hand Against the King , and Heads of all the Land. At length , these wretched Roman all agreed Which way to make the King and Nation bleed , By Powder , all agree with joint Consent , To Blow up both the King and Parliament . For to keep secret this their Villainy , By solemn Oaths they one another tie : Nay farther , being void of Grace and Shame , Each toak the Sacrament upon the same . Their Treason wrapped in this black Mantle then , Secure and safe from all the Eyes of Men , They did not fear , but by one fatal Blow , To prove the Church and Kingdom's Overthrow . Catesby , with all the other Romish Crew , This Powder Plot did eagerly pursue ; Yet after all their mighty cost and care , Their own Feet soon was taken in the Snare . Under the House of the Great Parliament , This Romish Den , and Devils by consent , The Hellish Powder-Plot they formed there , In hope's to send all flying in the Air . Barrels of Powder privately conveyed , Billets , and Bars of Iron too was laid , To tear up all before them as they flew , A black Invention by this dismal Crew . And with the fatal Blow all must have flown , The gracious King upon his Royal Throne , His gracious Queen , likewise their Princely heir All must have died and perished that was there . The House of Noble Lords of high Degree , By this unheard of bloody Tragedy , Their Limbs in sunder strait would have been tore And filled the Air with noble bloody gore . The worthy learned Judges Grave and Sage , The Commons too , all must have felt Rome is rage Had not the Lord of Love stepped in between Oh! what a dismal Slaughter had there been . The King , the Queen , and Barons of the Land , TO h e Judges , Gentry , did together stand On Ruin's brink , while Room the Blow should give They but the burning of a Match to live . But that Great God that sits in Heaven high He did behold their bloody Treachery , He made their own Handwriting soon betray The Work which they had Plotted many a day . The Lord in Mercy did his Wisdom send Unto the King , his People to Defend , Which did reveal the hidden Powder-Plot , A gracious Mercy never to be forgotten . And brought Room is Faction unto Punishment Which did the Powder Treason first invent , And all that ever Plots , I hope God will , That the true Christian Church may flourish still . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 