HONOUR's CALL : OR And Invitation to the English YOUTH to the Actions of their Noble Ancestors , to join in the Dissent on France , in this Year 1693. Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . Licensed according to Order . C Ome all you brave gallants , whom honour inspires , And valour inflames with true generous fires , If ever you intend for to purchase renown And by sinking the French , raise the English King's crown : Now , now , is your time for to make a dissent , Agreed to by both your King and Parliament . Then raise up our spirits who boast of your blood , And your titles to families great , would make good By your actions now show that it is all your aim By worth and by merit true honour to claim ; Go conquer that Monarch who vainly did boast , 'Twas the English at last that should pay for the roast , It's by your neglect the occasion is given , That your country is yet of that honour bereaven ; In glory your ancestors all to outdo , And France in its greatest of power to subdue : Who then can refuse and invasion to make , Would ennable the English , and make the French quake ? Then leave off your lolling in the ladies laps , Where nought's to be gained but disgraces or claps , And that's all the sum , which with pain you can catch , By staying at home , when abroad you may snatch Bright honour with ease , if over seas you do go And bravely assault your proud Gallican foe . Let Bacchus no more with his full brimming bowls In his sottish lees drown the generous souls ; Your country now calls you unto those alarms Which far do trancend all your punks and wines charms The year sixteen hundred ninety and three , Your names to enternise does justly agree . It's Edward the Black Prince , and Henry does call , Brave Talbot and Clifford , stout Nevill and all , It's Crescy and Poiters , nay , Ag-in-court too , That know if you will you may all them outdo , Why will you be then thus in sluggishness lost , When bravely attempting you may gain the post ? You have a stout King which you cannot but own , If you do but follow will bravely led on ; All that went before him he far does exceed ; He that made the Irish , will make the French bleed ; And as in the first he did France overthrow , In the latter he'll give the Great Lewis a blow . Now if you have more than the heart of a hen , What your ancestors have done you may do again : Then play the man briskly , let it not be said , That Lewis or James ever can make you afraid , Let them mumble and grumble , you may tread such a dance , As bravely shall led to the conquest of France . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . HONOUR's CALL : OR And Invitation to the English YOUTH to the Actions of their Noble Ancestors , to join in the Dissent on France , in this Year 1693. Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . Licensed according to Order . C Ome all you brave gallants , whom honour inspires , And valour inflames with true generous fires , If ever you intend for to purchase renown And by sinking the French , raise the English King's crown : Now , now , is your time for to make a dissent , Agreed to by both your King and Parliament . Then raise up our spirits who boast of your blood , And your titles to families great , would make good By your actions now show that it is all your aim By worth and by merit true honour to claim ; Go conquer that Monarch who vainly did boast , 'Twas the English at last that should pay for the roast , It's by your neglect the occasion is given , That your country is yet of that honour bereaven ; In glory your ancestors all to outdo , And France in its greatest of power to subdue : Who then can refuse and invasion to make , Would ennable the English , and make the French quake ? Then leave off your lolling in the ladies laps , Where nought's to be gained but disgraces or claps , And that's all the sum , which with pain you can catch , By staying at home , when abroad you may snatch Bright honour with ease , if over seas you do go And bravely assault your proud Gallican foe . Let Bacchus no more with his full brimming bowls In his sottish lees drown the generous souls ; Your country now calls you unto those alarms Which far do trancend all your punks and wines charms The year sixteen hundred ninety and three , Your names to enternise does justly agree . It's Edward the Black Prince , and Henry does call , Brave Talbot and Clifford , stout Nevill and all , It's Crescy and Poiters , nay , Ag-in-court too , That know if you will you may all them outdo , Why will you be then thus in sluggishness lost , When bravely attempting you may gain the post ? You have a stout King which you cannot but own , If you do but follow will bravely led on ; All that went before him he far does exceed ; He that made the Irish , will make the French bleed ; And as in the first he did France overthrow , In the latter he'll give the Great Lewis a blow . Now if you have more than the heart of a hen , What your ancestors have done you may do again : Then play the man briskly , let it not be said , That Lewis or James ever can make you afraid , Let them mumble and grumble , you may tread such a dance , As bravely shall led to the conquest of France . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 