The Hampshire Miller , short and thick , With and Overton Widow he's done the trick , He shook her Plumtree , they chance to catch a fallen , Upslipt her Clothes , Smock and all , A woman peeped through a hold , she is short and thick , And see the Miller and Widow do the trick . To the Tune of , The Languishing Swain . A Miller lived near Overton , And he a pretty trick has done , He loved a Widow day by day , With her he used to sport and play . On Midlent Sunday last , they say , To the widows house he took his way , And presently the door he entered in , To Coucking then he did begin . The street door with all speed was locked , She had a mind for to be docked , The back door she pinned with all speed , And lovingly they were agreed . Up stairs together they did high , The Miller loved her Coney Pie , To shake her Plumtree he was not slack But presently she was on her back . TO He Miller crauled into her Saddle , And for to Ride while he was able , It made'em blow , & amp ; his breath was short , The widow gave him no thanks fored . The Miller lay upon his belly , To please the widow , as I may tell you , A short woman peeped through a hold odsbones And said , the Miller had spoiled his stones The widow wears a Mantue Gown , And she will sport for half a Crown , With any Miller in the Land , If it'll not rise she'll make it stand . The widow having Nuts in store , The man he was for one touch more , Have at thy Plumtree now by guess , For widow I can do no less . My Nut-Crackers they have been tried , By you it cannot be denied . They be the best in all the Town , But I have rumpeled thy Mantue gown . The Millers Nut-Crackers , they say , Will pass the tedious time away , He cract the Nut , and left the Curnel behind , He's a loving man , the widow kind . The Miller's Wives Answer . TO he woman she was in a rage , Because her husband he did Gage The Sluts Fish pond , that runs so clear And for it he has paid so dear . The Miller aged , and is old , That made the woman for to scold , You ramble the Town for a fresh bit , Oh husband you will spoil your spit . Those wanton tricks has cost him money , By playing with the widows Coney , But he is resolved to mend his life , And be contented with his wife . Husband leave kissing up and down , And be contented with your own , Come cross the book for you are kind , And forgive the debt that is behind . Come Husband led and honest life , And be contented with thy wife , Ill pardon what is gone and passed , If thou wilt mend thy life at last . Millers be kind unto your wives , And then you may live contented lives The short man loves a widow , & amp ; so adieu Come buy these lines for they are true . Printed for TO . S . in the Strand . The Hampshire Miller , short and thick , With and Overton Widow he's done the trick , He shook her Plumtree , they chance to catch a fallen , Upslipt her Clothes , Smock and all , A woman peeped through a hold , she is short and thick , And see the Miller and Widow do the trick . To the Tune of , The Languishing Swain . A Miller lived near Overton , And he a pretty trick has done , He loved a Widow day by day , With her he used to sport and play . On Midlent Sunday last , they say , To the widows house he took his way , And presently the door he entered in , To Coucking then he did begin . The street door with all speed was locked , She had a mind for to be docked , The back door she pinned with all speed , And lovingly they were agreed . Up stairs together they did high , The Miller loved her Coney Pie , To shake her Plumtree he was not slack But presently she was on her back . TO He Miller crauled into her Saddle , And for to Ride while he was able , It made'em blow , & amp ; his breath was short , The widow gave him no thanks fored . The Miller lay upon his belly , To please the widow , as I may tell you , A short woman peeped through a hold odsbones And said , the Miller had spoiled his stones The widow wears a Mantue Gown , And she will sport for half a Crown , With any Miller in the Land , If it'll not rise she'll make it stand . The widow having Nuts in store , The man he was for one touch more , Have at thy Plumtree now by guess , For widow I can do no less . My Nut-Crackers they have been tried , By you it cannot be denied . They be the best in all the Town , But I have rumpeled thy Mantue gown . The Millers Nut-Crackers , they say , Will pass the tedious time away , He cract the Nut , and left the Curnel behind , He's a loving man , the widow kind . The Miller's Wives Answer . TO he woman she was in a rage , Because her husband he did Gage The Sluts Fish pond , that runs so clear And for it he has paid so dear . The Miller aged , and is old , That made the woman for to scold , You ramble the Town for a fresh bit , Oh husband you will spoil your spit . Those wanton tricks has cost him money , By playing with the widows Coney , But he is resolved to mend his life , And be contented with his wife . Husband leave kissing up and down , And be contented with your own , Come cross the book for you are kind , And forgive the debt that is behind . Come Husband led and honest life , And be contented with thy wife , Ill pardon what is gone and passed , If thou wilt mend thy life at last . Millers be kind unto your wives , And then you may live contented lives The short man loves a widow , & amp ; so adieu Come buy these lines for they are true . Printed for TO . S . in the Strand . 