The Dying Lovers last Farewell : Or , the Tragical downfall of Martellus and Arminda . The Shepherd being slighted , did despair , And being soar oppressed with grief and care , He did complain that Love he ever tried , So yielded unto Fate , and there he died : Who when the Nymph could not recall by Art , Her sorrows swelled , and broke her tender heart . To and excellent Playhouse tune , called , Stone walls cannot a Prison make . Or , Young Pheon . O Ne night when all the Village slept , Martellus sought despair , The wandering Shepherd waking kept to tell the woods his care : Be gone , said he , found thoughts be gone , eyes give your sorrow over , Why should you waste your tears for one that thinks on you no more . Yet all the Birds , the Flocks , and Powers that dwell within the Grove , Can tell how many tender hours we here have passed in love . the Stars above , my cruel foes , can tell how she has sworn A thousand times , that like to those her flames should ever burn . I thought the Rocks would sooner move than she her faith betray , I was transported so with love , my senses fled away : When hand in hand we used to walk , no joy was like to this , She told me that I had her heart , and sealed it with a kiss . But faithless she will ever be I to my sorrow find , Or else perhaps prove so to me , and to some other kind . But sure the god of Love will shower down vengeance in the end , And punish by his mighty power those that his Laws offend . How happy should I count my self for to receive one smile , From her that stole my heart away , and did me so beguile ; My drooping spirits would revive , and I should be at ease , And promise to my self good days my fancy for to please . But since she's gone , Oh let me have my wish , and quickly die , In this cold bank i'll make my Grave , and there forgotten lie : Sad Nightingales the watch shall keep , and kindly there complain . Then down the shepherd lay to sleep , and never waked again . The Woman's Part. Arminda coming through the Grove , to ease him of his grief , And finding that her wronged Love was dead , passed all relief : Unto the gods she did complain with senses all amazed , And sobbed out these words in vain as on his Grave she gazed . Oh! why you only Powers above would you so cruel be , For to deprive me of my Love ever I his face could see : Unhappy I whose deep disdain makes me thus sadly crossed , For when I thought to love again I found that I was lost . O let me strive with all my Art thy breath for to reprieve , That thou mayest know my lovesick heart does for my shepherd grieve : With open eyes behold my Woe , that am with sorrow slave , Since that I proved thy deadly foe to kill thee with disdain . But o ! alas , I know grim death he will not bribed be , F or to restore his latest breath to see my misery : No sorrow ever was like to mine , come help me for to mourn , That I in tears of watery Brine may to a Deluge turn . You Birds that warble in the woods , and Beasts so fierce and fell , Bear witness of my dying words , and weep my funeral Knell : Since he is to Elizium gone who was to me so kind , No longer I can live alone , nor stay one hour behind . I come dear Love , I come she cried , make thy Arminda Room , Since that for love Martellus died , unto the shades I come , Then fetching of a dying groan , her tender heart it broke , And falling on her Lovers Grave , she never after spoke . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven a little above St. Andrews Church in Holbourn . The Dying Lovers last Farewell : Or , the Tragical downfall of Martellus and Arminda . The Shepherd being slighted , did despair , And being soar oppressed with grief and care , He did complain that Love he ever tried , So yielded unto Fate , and there he died : Who when the Nymph could not recall by Art , Her sorrows swelled , and broke her tender heart . To and excellent Playhouse tune , called , Stone walls cannot a Prison make . Or , Young Pheon . O Ne night when all the Village slept , Martellus sought despair , The wandering Shepherd waking kept to tell the woods his care : Be gone , said he , found thoughts be gone , eyes give your sorrow over , Why should you waste your tears for one that thinks on you no more . Yet all the Birds , the Flocks , and Powers that dwell within the Grove , Can tell how many tender hours we here have passed in love . the Stars above , my cruel foes , can tell how she has sworn A thousand times , that like to those her flames should ever burn . I thought the Rocks would sooner move than she her faith betray , I was transported so with love , my senses fled away : When hand in hand we used to walk , no joy was like to this , She told me that I had her heart , and sealed it with a kiss . But faithless she will ever be I to my sorrow find , Or else perhaps prove so to me , and to some other kind . But sure the god of Love will shower down vengeance in the end , And punish by his mighty power those that his Laws offend . How happy should I count my self for to receive one smile , From her that stole my heart away , and did me so beguile ; My drooping spirits would revive , and I should be at ease , And promise to my self good days my fancy for to please . But since she's gone , Oh let me have my wish , and quickly die , In this cold bank i'll make my Grave , and there forgotten lie : Sad Nightingales the watch shall keep , and kindly there complain . Then down the shepherd lay to sleep , and never waked again . The Woman's Part. Arminda coming through the Grove , to ease him of his grief , And finding that her wronged Love was dead , passed all relief : Unto the gods she did complain with senses all amazed , And sobbed out these words in vain as on his Grave she gazed . Oh! why you only Powers above would you so cruel be , For to deprive me of my Love ever I his face could see : Unhappy I whose deep disdain makes me thus sadly crossed , For when I thought to love again I found that I was lost . O let me strive with all my Art thy breath for to reprieve , That thou mayest know my lovesick heart does for my shepherd grieve : With open eyes behold my Woe , that am with sorrow slave , Since that I proved thy deadly foe to kill thee with disdain . But o ! alas , I know grim death he will not bribed be , F or to restore his latest breath to see my misery : No sorrow ever was like to mine , come help me for to mourn , That I in tears of watery Brine may to a Deluge turn . You Birds that warble in the woods , and Beasts so fierce and fell , Bear witness of my dying words , and weep my funeral Knell : Since he is to Elizium gone who was to me so kind , No longer I can live alone , nor stay one hour behind . I come dear Love , I come she cried , make thy Arminda Room , Since that for love Martellus died , unto the shades I come , Then fetching of a dying groan , her tender heart it broke , And falling on her Lovers Grave , she never after spoke . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven a little above St. Andrews Church in Holbourn . 