The True Lovers Tragedy : Being and Incomparable Ballad of a Gentleman and his LADY that both Killed themselves for Love , under the disguised Names of Philander and Phillis . Phillis , Philanders scattered Garments find And thinks him slave , for which with Fate she joins , And with her fatal Poniard striketh deep , As life no longer can its station keep , The Crimson Streams so fast flowed from her veins Yet Dying , of her Loves dear loss Complains : No sooner Death had closed up her Starry eyes But her Returned Philander her espies ; And finding that for him she lost her Breath , He kills himself and Crowns his Love with death . To a New Play-House Tune : Or , Ah! Cruel Bloody Fate . A H Cruel Bloody fate , what canst thou now do more ? Alas it's now too late , Philander to restore ; Why should the Heavenly powers persuade Poor Mortals to believe , That they guard us here , And reward us there , Yet all our joys deceive . Her Pon [ y ] ard then she took , and held it in her hand , Then with a dying look , cried thus I fate command : Philander ah my love I come , to meet thy shade below ; Ah I come she cried , With a wound so wide , There needs no second blow . Then purple waves of Blood , ran streaming down the floor , Unmoved she saw the flood , and blessed her dying hour , Philander and Philander still , the bleeding Phillis cried , She wept a while , and she forced a smile , then closed her eyes and died . Upon the blushing ground , stained with her Virgin blood , She lay in Death's deep Swoon , close by the murmuring flood : Which for the lovely Phillis sake , complained of cruel fate , Which had caused such care , as had wrought despair , I weep it to relate . W Hen lo Philander came , with joy to seek his love , And her dear promise claim , while Moon-beams from above Did twinkle through the thickest shade , and guild the flowery plain , When he espys , And ah Phillis cries , ( not thinking she was slave ) Arise , arise from earth , shake of this dull repose , Phillis my only mirth , to thee Philander bows : Sooner I would have come to thee , had not a Lion stayed , My course to fight , For which exploit , he Lifeless now is made . Ah me , what's this ! she's cold , you Gods quite Breathless too O Death durst thou enfold , this beauty's not thy due : Alas ! O cruel fate he cried , by her own hand it's well , O the dismal blow , That did overthrow , by heavens for me she fell . Behold my garments died , in Phillis precious blood , Which falling from my side , made her suppose me dead : And therefore fell for love of me , ah cruel destiny , And shall Philander live to wander , No! by the powers i'll die . I come my Phillis now , prepare ! for in thy arms : I will perform my vow , a sleep like death now charms : These cyprus wreaths our Crowns shall be we'll Triumph over death . From thy fair Lip , i'll Nectar Sip , Even with my latest breath . With that his Fatal Sword , he plunged in his breast , And sighs [ ' ] worser with dying words o now I am at rest , Now Phillis now for ever mine , fate now no more shall part , Then through the Wound , The passage found , and left the Lovers heart . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby near West-Smithfield . The True Lovers Tragedy : Being and Incomparable Ballad of a Gentleman and his LADY that both Killed themselves for Love , under the disguised Names of Philander and Phillis . Phillis , Philanders scattered Garments find And thinks him slave , for which with Fate she joins , And with her fatal Poniard striketh deep , As life no longer can its station keep , The Crimson Streams so fast flowed from her veins Yet Dying , of her Loves dear loss Complains : No sooner Death had closed up her Starry eyes But her Returned Philander her espies ; And finding that for him she lost her Breath , He kills himself and Crowns his Love with death . To a New Play-House Tune : Or , Ah! Cruel Bloody Fate . A H Cruel Bloody fate , what canst thou now do more ? Alas it's now too late , Philander to restore ; Why should the Heavenly powers persuade Poor Mortals to believe , That they guard us here , And reward us there , Yet all our joys deceive . Her Pon [ y ] ard then she took , and held it in her hand , Then with a dying look , cried thus I fate command : Philander ah my love I come , to meet thy shade below ; Ah I come she cried , With a wound so wide , There needs no second blow . Then purple waves of Blood , ran streaming down the floor , Unmoved she saw the flood , and blessed her dying hour , Philander and Philander still , the bleeding Phillis cried , She wept a while , and she forced a smile , then closed her eyes and died . Upon the blushing ground , stained with her Virgin blood , She lay in Death's deep Swoon , close by the murmuring flood : Which for the lovely Phillis sake , complained of cruel fate , Which had caused such care , as had wrought despair , I weep it to relate . W Hen lo Philander came , with joy to seek his love , And her dear promise claim , while Moon-beams from above Did twinkle through the thickest shade , and guild the flowery plain , When he espys , And ah Phillis cries , ( not thinking she was slave ) Arise , arise from earth , shake of this dull repose , Phillis my only mirth , to thee Philander bows : Sooner I would have come to thee , had not a Lion stayed , My course to fight , For which exploit , he Lifeless now is made . Ah me , what's this ! she's cold , you Gods quite Breathless too O Death durst thou enfold , this beauty's not thy due : Alas ! O cruel fate he cried , by her own hand it's well , O the dismal blow , That did overthrow , by heavens for me she fell . Behold my garments died , in Phillis precious blood , Which falling from my side , made her suppose me dead : And therefore fell for love of me , ah cruel destiny , And shall Philander live to wander , No! by the powers i'll die . I come my Phillis now , prepare ! for in thy arms : I will perform my vow , a sleep like death now charms : These cyprus wreaths our Crowns shall be we'll Triumph over death . From thy fair Lip , i'll Nectar Sip , Even with my latest breath . With that his Fatal Sword , he plunged in his breast , And sighs [ ' ] worser with dying words o now I am at rest , Now Phillis now for ever mine , fate now no more shall part , Then through the Wound , The passage found , and left the Lovers heart . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby near West-Smithfield . 