A NOBLE RIDDLE Wisely Expounded : OR , The Maids answer to the Knights three Questions . She with her excellent wit and Civil carriage , Wone a young Knight to join with her in Marriage ; This gallant Couple now is Man and Wife , And she with him does led a pleasant life . Tune is , L ay the bent to the bonny broom . TO Here was a Lady of the North-Country lay the bent to the bonny broom , And she had lovely Daughters three , fa la la la , fa la la la ra re . There was a Knight of Noble worth , lay the bent , etc . Which also lived in the North , fa la , etc . The Knight of Courage stout and brave , lay the bent , etc . A wife he did desire to have , fa la , etc . He knocked at the Ladies Gate , lay the bent , etc . One Evening when it was late ; fa la , etc . The youngest Sister let him in , lay the bent , etc . And pined the door with a Silver pin ; fa la , etc . The second Sister she made his bed , lay the bent , etc . And laid soft Pillows under his head , fa la , etc . The youngest that same night , lay the bent , etc She went to bed to this young Knight , fa la , etc . And in the Morning when it was day , lay the bent , etc . These words unto him she did say : fa la , etc Now you have had your will ( quoth she , lay the bent , etc . I pray sir Knight will you Marry me , fa la , etc The young brave Knight to her replied , lay the bent , etc . Thy suit fair Maid shall not be denied , fa la , etc . I F thou canst answer me questions three , lay the bent , etc . This very day I will marry thee : fa la , etc . Kind Sir , in Love , Oh then quoth she , lay the bent , etc . Tell me what your three questions be , fa la , etc . O what is longer then the way ? lay the bent etc . Or what his deeper then the Sea , fa la , etc . Or what is louder then the Horn ? lay the bent , etc . Or what his sharper then a thorn ? fa la , etc Or what is greener then the Grass ? lay the bent , etc . Or what is worse then a woman was : fa la , etc Here follows the Damsels Answer to the Knights three Questions . O Love is longer then the way , lay the bent , etc . And Hell is deeper then the Sea , fa la , etc . And thunder's louder than the horn , lay the bent , etc . And Hunger's sharper then a thorn , fa la , etc . And Poyson's greener then the grass , lay the bent , etc . And the Devils worse then the woman was , fa la , etc . When she these questions answered had , lay the bent , etc . The Knight became exceeding glad , fa la , etc . And having truly tried her wit , lay the bent , etc . He much commended her for it , fa la , etc . And after , as it's verified , lay the bent , & amp ; c . He made of her his lovely Bride : fa la , etc . So now fair Maidens all adieu , lay the bent , etc . This Song I dedicate to you : fa la , etc . I wish that you may constant prove lay the bent to the bonny broom Unto the man that you do love , fa la la la , fa la la la ra re . Printed for W. Thackeray , E . M . and A . M . A NOBLE RIDDLE Wisely Expounded : OR , The Maids answer to the Knights three Questions . She with her excellent wit and Civil carriage , Wone a young Knight to join with her in Marriage ; This gallant Couple now is Man and Wife , And she with him does led a pleasant life . Tune is , L ay the bent to the bonny broom . TO Here was a Lady of the North-Country lay the bent to the bonny broom , And she had lovely Daughters three , fa la la la , fa la la la ra re . There was a Knight of Noble worth , lay the bent , etc . Which also lived in the North , fa la , etc . The Knight of Courage stout and brave , lay the bent , etc . A wife he did desire to have , fa la , etc . He knocked at the Ladies Gate , lay the bent , etc . One Evening when it was late ; fa la , etc . The youngest Sister let him in , lay the bent , etc . And pined the door with a Silver pin ; fa la , etc . The second Sister she made his bed , lay the bent , etc . And laid soft Pillows under his head , fa la , etc . The youngest that same night , lay the bent , etc She went to bed to this young Knight , fa la , etc . And in the Morning when it was day , lay the bent , etc . These words unto him she did say : fa la , etc Now you have had your will ( quoth she , lay the bent , etc . I pray sir Knight will you Marry me , fa la , etc The young brave Knight to her replied , lay the bent , etc . Thy suit fair Maid shall not be denied , fa la , etc . I F thou canst answer me questions three , lay the bent , etc . This very day I will marry thee : fa la , etc . Kind Sir , in Love , Oh then quoth she , lay the bent , etc . Tell me what your three questions be , fa la , etc . O what is longer then the way ? lay the bent etc . Or what his deeper then the Sea , fa la , etc . Or what is louder then the Horn ? lay the bent , etc . Or what his sharper then a thorn ? fa la , etc Or what is greener then the Grass ? lay the bent , etc . Or what is worse then a woman was : fa la , etc Here follows the Damsels Answer to the Knights three Questions . O Love is longer then the way , lay the bent , etc . And Hell is deeper then the Sea , fa la , etc . And thunder's louder than the horn , lay the bent , etc . And Hunger's sharper then a thorn , fa la , etc . And Poyson's greener then the grass , lay the bent , etc . And the Devils worse then the woman was , fa la , etc . When she these questions answered had , lay the bent , etc . The Knight became exceeding glad , fa la , etc . And having truly tried her wit , lay the bent , etc . He much commended her for it , fa la , etc . And after , as it's verified , lay the bent , & amp ; c . He made of her his lovely Bride : fa la , etc . So now fair Maidens all adieu , lay the bent , etc . This Song I dedicate to you : fa la , etc . I wish that you may constant prove lay the bent to the bonny broom Unto the man that you do love , fa la la la , fa la la la ra re . Printed for W. Thackeray , E . M . and A . M . 