SUSAN's Courtship : Or , Sweet William Wooed by the Farmer is Daughter of Devonshire . To the Tune of , The bonny Gray eyed Morn . Licensed according to Order . S weet William , Prithee tell me , wilt thou wed , And ease a Virgin of her Maidenhead ? Did you not promise me last Whitsontide That then you'd make me your Beloved Bride ? Yet you have not ; Why do you serve me so ? prey will you have me , tell me , ay , or no ? Susan , quoth William , make not such a din , I han't a Hat for to be Married in . If that be all , take thou no thought , my Dear , I have a high-crowned Hat thou needest not fear , Which was my Grany's forty Years ago , The which on thee , my Billy , I'll bestow ; The Crown's torn out , but I'll mend that again : Now wilt thou Marry me , Love , tell me plain ? Susan , quoth Billy , make not such a din , I han't a Neck Cloth to be Married in . We will not balk or starve a Cause she cried , For of a truth thou mayest be satisfied , A Neckcloth shall not part us , Love , quoth Sue , Ad's fut I have a Pudding-bag or two , With them I'll make a Cravat for my Dear : Wilt have me , now ? Speak with a merry cheer . Susan , quoth Billy , make not such a din , I han't a Coat for to be Married in . If thou the Marriage-state will but promote , Be of good Comfort , thou shalt have a Coat Made of a Blanket , Love , to keep thee arm ; And theefore Billy , prithee now conform To my Desire ; let us Mayed be , Thou knowest I ever had a love for thee . Susan , quoth Billy , keep not such a din , I han't a Shirt for to be Married in . Intoth , quoth Susan , that is something hard , I have two Smocks , cost me a groat a Yard And one of them , Love , with a free good will , If thou thy former Promise wilt fulfil , In taking Susan for thy loving Wife , In , I'm weary of a single life . Susan , quoth Billy , make not such a din , I have no Breeches to be Married in . Hast thou no Breeches , that's a piteous case , Yet if thou wilt my proffered Love embrace , My under-petticoat , geud faith , I'll break , And with the same a pair of Breeches make ; For I would fain be Married out of hand , Let us no longer , Love , disputing stand . Susan , quoth Billy , talk of no such thing , I have no Coin to buy a Wedding-ring Billy , quoth she , intruth I would not scorn , For to be Married with a Ring of Horn , Which you may with a penny buy foe me ; It's good enough for such poor Flocks as we : And theefore let us make no more delay , I long to see that happy joyful day : Susan , quoth Billy , such a Ring , I fear , The name of Horns I can't endure to hear . If ever I Marry , dearest Love , behold , It shall be with a precious Ring of gold ; Why then , quoth Susan , such a one I'll buy , Though for to purchase it I do let fly Not only Bracelets , but my Hood and Fan , For if I live I must enjoy a Man. Why then , quoth Billy , since it must be so , Provide a Ring , then to the Kirk we'll go London : Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . SUSAN's Courtship : Or , Sweet William Wooed by the Farmer is Daughter of Devonshire . To the Tune of , The bonny Gray eyed Morn . Licensed according to Order . S weet William , Prithee tell me , wilt thou wed , And ease a Virgin of her Maidenhead ? Did you not promise me last Whitsontide That then you'd make me your Beloved Bride ? Yet you have not ; Why do you serve me so ? prey will you have me , tell me , ay , or no ? Susan , quoth William , make not such a din , I han't a Hat for to be Married in . If that be all , take thou no thought , my Dear , I have a high-crowned Hat thou needest not fear , Which was my Grany's forty Years ago , The which on thee , my Billy , I'll bestow ; The Crown's torn out , but I'll mend that again : Now wilt thou Marry me , Love , tell me plain ? Susan , quoth Billy , make not such a din , I han't a Neck Cloth to be Married in . We will not balk or starve a Cause she cried , For of a truth thou mayest be satisfied , A Neckcloth shall not part us , Love , quoth Sue , Ad's fut I have a Pudding-bag or two , With them I'll make a Cravat for my Dear : Wilt have me , now ? Speak with a merry cheer . Susan , quoth Billy , make not such a din , I han't a Coat for to be Married in . If thou the Marriage-state will but promote , Be of good Comfort , thou shalt have a Coat Made of a Blanket , Love , to keep thee arm ; And theefore Billy , prithee now conform To my Desire ; let us Mayed be , Thou knowest I ever had a love for thee . Susan , quoth Billy , keep not such a din , I han't a Shirt for to be Married in . Intoth , quoth Susan , that is something hard , I have two Smocks , cost me a groat a Yard And one of them , Love , with a free good will , If thou thy former Promise wilt fulfil , In taking Susan for thy loving Wife , In , I'm weary of a single life . Susan , quoth Billy , make not such a din , I have no Breeches to be Married in . Hast thou no Breeches , that's a piteous case , Yet if thou wilt my proffered Love embrace , My under-petticoat , geud faith , I'll break , And with the same a pair of Breeches make ; For I would fain be Married out of hand , Let us no longer , Love , disputing stand . Susan , quoth Billy , talk of no such thing , I have no Coin to buy a Wedding-ring Billy , quoth she , intruth I would not scorn , For to be Married with a Ring of Horn , Which you may with a penny buy foe me ; It's good enough for such poor Flocks as we : And theefore let us make no more delay , I long to see that happy joyful day : Susan , quoth Billy , such a Ring , I fear , The name of Horns I can't endure to hear . If ever I Marry , dearest Love , behold , It shall be with a precious Ring of gold ; Why then , quoth Susan , such a one I'll buy , Though for to purchase it I do let fly Not only Bracelets , but my Hood and Fan , For if I live I must enjoy a Man. Why then , quoth Billy , since it must be so , Provide a Ring , then to the Kirk we'll go London : Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . 