The Country Lasses Good Counsel to all her Fellow-Maids . Wherein she does make it plain appear , That of all , living a single life she loves most dear . And wishes Maidens all a row , TO oh take heed of false tongues where ever they go . To the Tune of , Shrewsbury for me . Or : The Seamans adieu to his dear C Ome all you young Damsels where ever you dwell , And listen unto my words very well , And I will show you in every degree , Of all sorts of living , a Maids life for me . A maid whilst she's single does live gallantly , With the money she gets fine Clothes she may buy : But when she is married , Oh then she shall see . The case will be altered in every degree . Young men they will woe with words so pure , And tell you their love will constant endure : And how that to you they will ever be kind , But that you shall see when the Devil is blind . They'll promise you Bodkins , Thimbles and Gloves , And all is but for to gain a Maidens love : But not one in ten will prove true you shall find , He'l be as good as his word when the Devil is blind . They'll praise our Beauty , with our fingers long & amp ; small , Our Legs and Feet , and our Bodies withal : And say that they are handsome in every degree , But for all their fine speeches , a Maidslife for me . When your married , then comes trouble and care , And for housekeeping you pinch and spare : You must work day and night with a world of pain , Only your poor Family for to maintain . While we are single we can go where we please , We can do what we list ; work or take our ease : When she that is married must work day and night , While she that is single may take her delight . At Fairs when youngmen and maids they do meet , There is nothing but courting and kissing so sweet They take you to the tavern & amp ; feast you with Cakes & amp ; wine But when you are married , Oh then you starve and pine . Some Men will crack and say they have house and land , But when they go fort upon other men's ground it does stand , And all that they promise you true you shall find , But that you shall see when the Devil is blind , TO Herefore you young maidens both great and small , Takethismy Counsel before you get a fallen : It is good to be wary in choosing a Mate , For fear you repent when it is too late . There is Soap and Candle you must provide ; And also clothing their nakedness to hide : With a 1000 more troubles in married life there with [ ll ] [ b ] e Then every maid to her mind , a single life for me . And if that your husband be cross and unkind , It will vex your person , and trouble your mind : With much discomfort yowl find night and day , Then for to live single , is the best way . And if he be a Drunkard , this you must know , To the Alehouse many times he will go : If you follow him , base jade he'l you call , And in his fury knock your head against the wall . And if he be a Gamester I tell you true , That base gaming will make your family rue : For I know them that has used it , I can make appear , That have consumed whole hundreds a year . And if that your husband be jealous likewise , It will cause great controversy betwixt you to rise , The he'l out with his purse , and call you Whore : And if you speak to him he'l beatrice you out of door . If he be a Glutton , I do tell you plain , He [ ' ] l eat more in one week , then in a month he will gain ; And beside that you will always be poor , For a Glutton continually eats up his store . And if he be a Cotquean you sure shall find , You never can do any thing to please his mind : Though to make ready your diet , you use your best skill He'l have a finger in the Pie , or he'l want of his will . Moreover then this , he'l grope the Ducks and hens , And count all the Chickens that be in the Pens : When your Butter or Cheese you go for to make , H e'l be sure then your part for to take . And now you pretty maidens where ever you be , To live a single life is the best you may see , For to find a good husband by night or by day : You had as good seek a Needle in a Bottle of hay . Concluding my ditty which here I have penned , I hope that my Sonnet will not one offend : Come buy every one , and then you shall see , This good to live single in every degree . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J Wright , J Clark . W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . The Country Lasses Good Counsel to all her Fellow-Maids . Wherein she does make it plain appear , That of all , living a single life she loves most dear . And wishes Maidens all a row , TO oh take heed of false tongues where ever they go . To the Tune of , Shrewsbury for me . Or : The Seamans adieu to his dear C Ome all you young Damsels where ever you dwell , And listen unto my words very well , And I will show you in every degree , Of all sorts of living , a Maids life for me . A maid whilst she's single does live gallantly , With the money she gets fine Clothes she may buy : But when she is married , Oh then she shall see . The case will be altered in every degree . Young men they will woe with words so pure , And tell you their love will constant endure : And how that to you they will ever be kind , But that you shall see when the Devil is blind . They'll promise you Bodkins , Thimbles and Gloves , And all is but for to gain a Maidens love : But not one in ten will prove true you shall find , He'l be as good as his word when the Devil is blind . They'll praise our Beauty , with our fingers long & amp ; small , Our Legs and Feet , and our Bodies withal : And say that they are handsome in every degree , But for all their fine speeches , a Maidslife for me . When your married , then comes trouble and care , And for housekeeping you pinch and spare : You must work day and night with a world of pain , Only your poor Family for to maintain . While we are single we can go where we please , We can do what we list ; work or take our ease : When she that is married must work day and night , While she that is single may take her delight . At Fairs when youngmen and maids they do meet , There is nothing but courting and kissing so sweet They take you to the tavern & amp ; feast you with Cakes & amp ; wine But when you are married , Oh then you starve and pine . Some Men will crack and say they have house and land , But when they go fort upon other men's ground it does stand , And all that they promise you true you shall find , But that you shall see when the Devil is blind , TO Herefore you young maidens both great and small , Takethismy Counsel before you get a fallen : It is good to be wary in choosing a Mate , For fear you repent when it is too late . There is Soap and Candle you must provide ; And also clothing their nakedness to hide : With a 1000 more troubles in married life there with [ ll ] [ b ] e Then every maid to her mind , a single life for me . And if that your husband be cross and unkind , It will vex your person , and trouble your mind : With much discomfort yowl find night and day , Then for to live single , is the best way . And if he be a Drunkard , this you must know , To the Alehouse many times he will go : If you follow him , base jade he'l you call , And in his fury knock your head against the wall . And if he be a Gamester I tell you true , That base gaming will make your family rue : For I know them that has used it , I can make appear , That have consumed whole hundreds a year . And if that your husband be jealous likewise , It will cause great controversy betwixt you to rise , The he'l out with his purse , and call you Whore : And if you speak to him he'l beatrice you out of door . If he be a Glutton , I do tell you plain , He [ ' ] l eat more in one week , then in a month he will gain ; And beside that you will always be poor , For a Glutton continually eats up his store . And if he be a Cotquean you sure shall find , You never can do any thing to please his mind : Though to make ready your diet , you use your best skill He'l have a finger in the Pie , or he'l want of his will . Moreover then this , he'l grope the Ducks and hens , And count all the Chickens that be in the Pens : When your Butter or Cheese you go for to make , H e'l be sure then your part for to take . And now you pretty maidens where ever you be , To live a single life is the best you may see , For to find a good husband by night or by day : You had as good seek a Needle in a Bottle of hay . Concluding my ditty which here I have penned , I hope that my Sonnet will not one offend : Come buy every one , and then you shall see , This good to live single in every degree . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J Wright , J Clark . W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 