The two Constant Lovers . OR , A Pattern of true L ove , expressed in this Dialogue between Samu - el and Sarah . To a pleasant New Tune . A S I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day , I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say : With a mounrful ditty , she began her tale , which moved my heart with pity her for to bewail . Sarah . My Love I have desired for to speak with you , My heart within was fired , until that I knew Whither you were living , in good health or no , My heart it was grieved , until that I did know . Samuel . Why , sweetheart , what ails thee thus for to complain ? Let not ill befall thee , thou shalt me obtain ; Though I were absented , from thee for a space , I'll not be prevented , of thy [ love ] lie face Sarah Samuel my own sweating , I to thee must tell , In a heavy greeting , what hath us befell : My friends do grudge and murmer , and to me they say , That we must part asunder , or else they'll thee destroy . Samuel . My love be not grieved , thou thy friends so frown , Thou shalt be relieved , none shall put thee down , I for thy sweet favour , will adventure much , Though thy friends & amp ; Brother , do against me grutch . Sarah . O my own dear-sweeting , I am grieved in heart , That I give thee such greeting , for to breed thy smart : Barnwel my own Brother , Captain being he , Swears that of all others , killed thou shalt be . Samuel . SArah be not fearful , though thy Brother swear , Of thy life be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwel , though he a Captain be , He shall find that Samuel , is as good as he . Sarah . O my loving Samuel , look where he does go , It's my Brother Barnwel , now begins our woe : Would that we together , had not met this day , Oh my Judas Brother , will thy life betray . Now comes Captain Barnwel , to these Lovers twain : And made count that S amuel , he should soon have slave , But it proved contrary , to his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sarah , conquest he resigned . Then said he to Samuel , what make you here , I am with my sweetheart Sarah , put her not in fear , Barnwel in a fury , swore he would prevent , His own Sister S arah , of her hearts content . Sarah . O my Brother Barnwel : let me you entreat , Not to wrong my S amuel , in your bloody heat : He hath never offended you at any time , Let him not be condemned , save his Life take mine . I says Captain Barnwel , S arah thou shalt see , Then he called to S amuel , come and answer me : I thy Death have vowed , ever I further go , Then sweet S arah bowed , saying do not so . S amuel . S amuel being heedful of his tyranny , Says S arah be not fearful , thou anon shalt see : Though thy brother Barnwel , vow my Life to spill , Thou shalt see that S amuel , hath both strength and skill , Now these words being spoken , they to Weapons go , S amuel gave him a token , with a dreadful blow : And withal enclosed with his Enemy , Then Barnwel he supposed , that himself should die . Then says loving Samuel , are you now content , I says Captain Barnwel , and withal consent That my Sister S arah , shall be made thy Wife , So thou wilt but spare me , and not take my life . Thus in peace they ceased for the present time , S arah much was eased of her troubled mind : And enjoyed her S amuel , to her hearts content , And her Brother Barnwel , gave his free Consent . Now these Lovers twain , live in joy and peace , Pray Heaven upon them rain plenty and increase : And all true Lovers , wheresoever they be , Aid them with thy favour , that have such constancy . FINI S . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The two Constant Lovers . OR , A Pattern of true L ove , expressed in this Dialogue between Samu - el and Sarah . To a pleasant New Tune . A S I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day , I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say : With a mounrful ditty , she began her tale , which moved my heart with pity her for to bewail . Sarah . My Love I have desired for to speak with you , My heart within was fired , until that I knew Whither you were living , in good health or no , My heart it was grieved , until that I did know . Samuel . Why , sweetheart , what ails thee thus for to complain ? Let not ill befall thee , thou shalt me obtain ; Though I were absented , from thee for a space , I'll not be prevented , of thy [ love ] lie face Sarah Samuel my own sweating , I to thee must tell , In a heavy greeting , what hath us befell : My friends do grudge and murmer , and to me they say , That we must part asunder , or else they'll thee destroy . Samuel . My love be not grieved , thou thy friends so frown , Thou shalt be relieved , none shall put thee down , I for thy sweet favour , will adventure much , Though thy friends & amp ; Brother , do against me grutch . Sarah . O my own dear-sweeting , I am grieved in heart , That I give thee such greeting , for to breed thy smart : Barnwel my own Brother , Captain being he , Swears that of all others , killed thou shalt be . Samuel . SArah be not fearful , though thy Brother swear , Of thy life be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwel , though he a Captain be , He shall find that Samuel , is as good as he . Sarah . O my loving Samuel , look where he does go , It's my Brother Barnwel , now begins our woe : Would that we together , had not met this day , Oh my Judas Brother , will thy life betray . Now comes Captain Barnwel , to these Lovers twain : And made count that S amuel , he should soon have slave , But it proved contrary , to his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sarah , conquest he resigned . Then said he to Samuel , what make you here , I am with my sweetheart Sarah , put her not in fear , Barnwel in a fury , swore he would prevent , His own Sister S arah , of her hearts content . Sarah . O my Brother Barnwel : let me you entreat , Not to wrong my S amuel , in your bloody heat : He hath never offended you at any time , Let him not be condemned , save his Life take mine . I says Captain Barnwel , S arah thou shalt see , Then he called to S amuel , come and answer me : I thy Death have vowed , ever I further go , Then sweet S arah bowed , saying do not so . S amuel . S amuel being heedful of his tyranny , Says S arah be not fearful , thou anon shalt see : Though thy brother Barnwel , vow my Life to spill , Thou shalt see that S amuel , hath both strength and skill , Now these words being spoken , they to Weapons go , S amuel gave him a token , with a dreadful blow : And withal enclosed with his Enemy , Then Barnwel he supposed , that himself should die . Then says loving Samuel , are you now content , I says Captain Barnwel , and withal consent That my Sister S arah , shall be made thy Wife , So thou wilt but spare me , and not take my life . Thus in peace they ceased for the present time , S arah much was eased of her troubled mind : And enjoyed her S amuel , to her hearts content , And her Brother Barnwel , gave his free Consent . Now these Lovers twain , live in joy and peace , Pray Heaven upon them rain plenty and increase : And all true Lovers , wheresoever they be , Aid them with thy favour , that have such constancy . FINI S . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 