The Willow Green turned into White ; Or , The Young men Joy and the Maids Delight . Being the Maids kind and Loving Answer to the distressed Lovers Complaint . Wherein she plainly shows in every part , How he is the Man that does enjoy her heart , Thou first she seemed disloyal for to prove , Was only but to try his constant Love ; But now most lovingly unto him she is seen , & amp ; bids him never fear wearing the Willow Green . Tune is , My Love sleeps on another men Pillow . Or , The Willow Green . W Hat ails my Love to be so sad , why art thou troubled so in mind , I am come now to make thee glad . to thee I will prove true and kind ; Then cast away sorrow and care , and be joyful as thou hast been , Cheer up thy heart and do not fear , thou shalt not wear the Willow Green . I am come to fulfil thy wishes , as thou shalt find immediately : Come now and take a hundred kisses in Token of my love to thee . Although thy woes at first seemed double , yet let sorrow no more be seen [ . ] I now will free thee from the trouble Of wearing the Willow Green . Although long time we have been parted , 'twas but thy constancy to prove , Now i'll be Loyal and true hearted , unto thee my own true Love . No man that lives on English Ground , shall ever my true-Love from thee win , If I might gain five hindered pound my Love shall not wear the Willow Green . What though I showed my self unconstant to thee at first , and seemed coy , Yet thou shalt find by this instant I will be thy only joy : Then prithee my dearest Love content thee . and be not sad as thou hast been , For I am resolved to prevent thee from wearing the Willow Green . It's thou art him that I love best , above all men that ever I see , I am the Maid I do protest that will prove constant unto thee . I love thee dearer than Gold or Pearl . no Riches ever shall me win , If I might have a Lord or Earl my Love should not wear the Willow Green . I have been woeed by many a gallant which would have gladly wedded me , But I have refused both Gold and Talon , all for the Love I bear to thee : Many called me their joy and Honey , hoping my favour for to win , But no man shall cause me with Money to make thee wear the Willow Green . Although thou blamest me to be cruel , and hard hearted unto thee Yet now I'll be thy only jewel and love no man but only thee , Thy Lovesick Suit is fully granted faithful ever I ' le be seen , True Love in me shalt never be wanted therefore cast off the Willow Green . Then prithee Love make no delay , let's not our precious time withstand [ : ] Come let us to the Church away , and there be joined hand in hand We'll live as loving as any two that ever in the Land was seen Therefore my dearest bid adieu , for ever wearing the Willow green . At this the young man rejoiced greatly , to hear his Sweethearts kind Reply He then embraced her most neatly with kisses then so lovingly : They went unto the Priest with speed in a brave mnner as ever was seen Where as they Married was indeed , now he cast off the Willow Green . So Lovers all I bid adieu , I pray much of my Verses make These Lines I here present to you , wherein you may a pattern take I wish you may continue long in Pleasure , Comfort and Delight , And there's and end of my new Song . called the Willow green turned into White , Printed for , F. Cole . TO Vere . J Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery . and T. Passenger , The Willow Green turned into White ; Or , The Young men Joy and the Maids Delight . Being the Maids kind and Loving Answer to the distressed Lovers Complaint . Wherein she plainly shows in every part , How he is the Man that does enjoy her heart , Thou first she seemed disloyal for to prove , Was only but to try his constant Love ; But now most lovingly unto him she is seen , & amp ; bids him never fear wearing the Willow Green . Tune is , My Love sleeps on another men Pillow . Or , The Willow Green . W Hat ails my Love to be so sad , why art thou troubled so in mind , I am come now to make thee glad . to thee I will prove true and kind ; Then cast away sorrow and care , and be joyful as thou hast been , Cheer up thy heart and do not fear , thou shalt not wear the Willow Green . I am come to fulfil thy wishes , as thou shalt find immediately : Come now and take a hundred kisses in Token of my love to thee . Although thy woes at first seemed double , yet let sorrow no more be seen [ . ] I now will free thee from the trouble Of wearing the Willow Green . Although long time we have been parted , 'twas but thy constancy to prove , Now i'll be Loyal and true hearted , unto thee my own true Love . No man that lives on English Ground , shall ever my true-Love from thee win , If I might gain five hindered pound my Love shall not wear the Willow Green . What though I showed my self unconstant to thee at first , and seemed coy , Yet thou shalt find by this instant I will be thy only joy : Then prithee my dearest Love content thee . and be not sad as thou hast been , For I am resolved to prevent thee from wearing the Willow Green . It's thou art him that I love best , above all men that ever I see , I am the Maid I do protest that will prove constant unto thee . I love thee dearer than Gold or Pearl . no Riches ever shall me win , If I might have a Lord or Earl my Love should not wear the Willow Green . I have been woeed by many a gallant which would have gladly wedded me , But I have refused both Gold and Talon , all for the Love I bear to thee : Many called me their joy and Honey , hoping my favour for to win , But no man shall cause me with Money to make thee wear the Willow Green . Although thou blamest me to be cruel , and hard hearted unto thee Yet now I'll be thy only jewel and love no man but only thee , Thy Lovesick Suit is fully granted faithful ever I ' le be seen , True Love in me shalt never be wanted therefore cast off the Willow Green . Then prithee Love make no delay , let's not our precious time withstand [ : ] Come let us to the Church away , and there be joined hand in hand We'll live as loving as any two that ever in the Land was seen Therefore my dearest bid adieu , for ever wearing the Willow green . At this the young man rejoiced greatly , to hear his Sweethearts kind Reply He then embraced her most neatly with kisses then so lovingly : They went unto the Priest with speed in a brave mnner as ever was seen Where as they Married was indeed , now he cast off the Willow Green . So Lovers all I bid adieu , I pray much of my Verses make These Lines I here present to you , wherein you may a pattern take I wish you may continue long in Pleasure , Comfort and Delight , And there's and end of my new Song . called the Willow green turned into White , Printed for , F. Cole . TO Vere . J Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery . and T. Passenger , 