Fancies Favourite : OR , The Mirror of the Times . Being a young Ladies commendation of a young Gallant , which hath a long time showed her much love ; which by his civil carriage , and long patience in waiting on her , at last conquered her , who was once resolved to led a single life , and therefore he termed her the Phoenix of the Times . To the Tune of , Fancies Phoenix . C Ome , come , away you Maidens fair this Song to you I will indite , It's of a Young Man I'll declare . who in his praise I needs must write : The City if I search about , I scarce shall find his fellow out . He hath been constant now to me , The mirror of the times is he . I must confess , I once did mind , a single life to live and die ; But such rare parts in him I find , his civil Suit I can't deny , But am resolved to set him free , And grant him love and liberty : So civil he hath been to me , etc I once did think I never should so much as know what love should be , Nor did I dream he ever could with patience so have conquered me : His comely gesture I did spy Made me delight in's company , That all may say that does him see , etc Did you e'r see that glorious Star that ushers in the morning bright , How he exceeds all other far by casting forth his sparkling light , So all do say as much by he , That e'r did keep his company . His carriage does his gesture show , he is admired where e'r he go . He bashful is , yet bold also , and shows it with a gallant grace , All vapouring Blades he scorns to know , yet scorns he for to hide his face , He'll take no wrong , nor quarrels breed , but stick to's friend in time of need : He's civil , yet he'll merry be , etc If any where you should him spy , in Maids or Women's company , No wanton looks comes from his eye , at any time as you e'r shall see , He'll court , he'll kiss , he'll sing or play , but it shall be in a modest way , To Men or Women's company , etc B Ut stay , my Pen does run too fast , in setting forth his gallantry , For Fear I loose him at the last , then cause you'll have to laugh at me , When some do hear of him they may persuade his love from me away : But if they gain his love from me , None constant then I think there be . But his name I have not told , nor will not yet , you may be sure Till of him I can get faster hold , there's no one here shall it procure . You Maidens all that hear my Song , I would not have you for him long . But if you do , persuaded be , You may find some as good as he . A Phoenix he hath termed me , because I thought to lie alone , But if I that such a Bird there be , out of this Climate sure she's flown , Our Land is cold , and therefore I , resolve no Phoenix for to die . But though I don't his Phoenix prove , Yet I will be his Turtle Dove . There's many maiden that does say , a single life life is best at ease , How oft I pray will you say nay , if once a Young man does you please , I must confess sometime you'll prove , most coy to him you most do love . What by experience I find true , Pray blame not me to tell it you . Let me advice you Maidens fair , not to be coy , nor proud at all , For those that count themselves most rare most times does get the greatest fallen : You seldom see a scornful maid , but at the last she is betrayed : Be courteous , yet be virtuous still , And let not young men men have their will . Choose not Husband for estate , unless you fancy him beside , You may repent when it's too late , it's for a life time you are tied : No Ranter take , if you be wise , nor yet none of the new precise : The one will rant and spend thy means , The other closely may love queans . But now my Song grows to and end , I must be gone , my love does stay , Last night I did unto him send to meet me at a place to day ; Where we intend so to agree , in what Church we will Married be : Then Phoenix like we'll live and die In the pure flames of Chastity . One Love , one Faith , we express , and therefore we one name will have , Our love so great is I confess , we likewise do desire one grave ; To his desire I will incline , his ashes shall be joined with mine , So Phoenix like we mean to lie , And Turtle like we'll live and die . C.H. London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Fancies Favourite : OR , The Mirror of the Times . Being a young Ladies commendation of a young Gallant , which hath a long time showed her much love ; which by his civil carriage , and long patience in waiting on her , at last conquered her , who was once resolved to led a single life , and therefore he termed her the Phoenix of the Times . To the Tune of , Fancies Phoenix . C Ome , come , away you Maidens fair this Song to you I will indite , It's of a Young Man I'll declare . who in his praise I needs must write : The City if I search about , I scarce shall find his fellow out . He hath been constant now to me , The mirror of the times is he . I must confess , I once did mind , a single life to live and die ; But such rare parts in him I find , his civil Suit I can't deny , But am resolved to set him free , And grant him love and liberty : So civil he hath been to me , etc I once did think I never should so much as know what love should be , Nor did I dream he ever could with patience so have conquered me : His comely gesture I did spy Made me delight in's company , That all may say that does him see , etc Did you e'r see that glorious Star that ushers in the morning bright , How he exceeds all other far by casting forth his sparkling light , So all do say as much by he , That e'r did keep his company . His carriage does his gesture show , he is admired where e'r he go . He bashful is , yet bold also , and shows it with a gallant grace , All vapouring Blades he scorns to know , yet scorns he for to hide his face , He'll take no wrong , nor quarrels breed , but stick to's friend in time of need : He's civil , yet he'll merry be , etc If any where you should him spy , in Maids or Women's company , No wanton looks comes from his eye , at any time as you e'r shall see , He'll court , he'll kiss , he'll sing or play , but it shall be in a modest way , To Men or Women's company , etc B Ut stay , my Pen does run too fast , in setting forth his gallantry , For Fear I loose him at the last , then cause you'll have to laugh at me , When some do hear of him they may persuade his love from me away : But if they gain his love from me , None constant then I think there be . But his name I have not told , nor will not yet , you may be sure Till of him I can get faster hold , there's no one here shall it procure . You Maidens all that hear my Song , I would not have you for him long . But if you do , persuaded be , You may find some as good as he . A Phoenix he hath termed me , because I thought to lie alone , But if I that such a Bird there be , out of this Climate sure she's flown , Our Land is cold , and therefore I , resolve no Phoenix for to die . But though I don't his Phoenix prove , Yet I will be his Turtle Dove . There's many maiden that does say , a single life life is best at ease , How oft I pray will you say nay , if once a Young man does you please , I must confess sometime you'll prove , most coy to him you most do love . What by experience I find true , Pray blame not me to tell it you . Let me advice you Maidens fair , not to be coy , nor proud at all , For those that count themselves most rare most times does get the greatest fallen : You seldom see a scornful maid , but at the last she is betrayed : Be courteous , yet be virtuous still , And let not young men men have their will . Choose not Husband for estate , unless you fancy him beside , You may repent when it's too late , it's for a life time you are tied : No Ranter take , if you be wise , nor yet none of the new precise : The one will rant and spend thy means , The other closely may love queans . But now my Song grows to and end , I must be gone , my love does stay , Last night I did unto him send to meet me at a place to day ; Where we intend so to agree , in what Church we will Married be : Then Phoenix like we'll live and die In the pure flames of Chastity . One Love , one Faith , we express , and therefore we one name will have , Our love so great is I confess , we likewise do desire one grave ; To his desire I will incline , his ashes shall be joined with mine , So Phoenix like we mean to lie , And Turtle like we'll live and die . C.H. London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 