True Love Indeed . Being the Courtship of William ------ of Portsmouth , to his Sweet-Heart Betty . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . C Ome hither , my dear Betty , and fit thou down by me , thou art the fairest Creature that ever I did see ; all the things that I will have , nothing of you I crave , if that thou wilt but love me I will maintain you brave : for thou art my jewel , my joy and delight : And I will ever love thee , though People may us spite : if thou'l be true to me , I will be true to thee , My dearest Betty , fair & amp ; pretty , that thy friends shall see . Sweet William it's beneath you to marry a poor maid , And you a great Rich Grocer , and have a mighty trade : when that we married be , you then will say to me , I might have had a Lady , or one of high Degree : indeed Sir , my Parents are all very Poor , And I think a Poorer maiden you never saw before , And therefore Sir said she , I pray now pardon me You may have a Fortune of a certain nearer your degree . Sweet Betty it's not for treasure I ever marry shall , I have a trade already to maintain us withal ; if that thou'lt married be , my dearest love , to me , I do not care for wealth , nor any one of High Degree : and if that you will not have me , I do declare , My Trade will soon decay , and I fallen into Despair , if thou'll be true to me , I will be true to thee , my dearest Betty , fair and pretty , I love none but thee . Kind William now I pray you your loving Suit forbear , we see how many maidens are drawn into the snare , For your Parents they will frown , & amp ; think to run me down Because I am but poor , and you of great renown . for it they unto me should prove unkind , And in a little space that you should altar your mind , such things there often be , as many people see , and that's the Reason for this season I shall not agree . I prithee don't deny me Betty , nor strive to break my heart , For indeed , I should be Ruined , if that we should part , Come fit thee down my Dear , these things Love never fear , There is no Creature , in that Nature shall abuse my Dear : sweet Betty I have asked my friends consent , And they indeed do tell me they are very well very content , so let us both agree , next week to married be , my dearest Jewel be not cruel , I'll be true to thee . Your words have been so winning I cannot you deny , Should you prove false to me with sorrow I shall cry ; But if you do prove true , there will be none like you , So brisk and rare none can compare , my Dearest that is true : So now I am Resolved to altar my life , and to change my condition , and be a married wife , sweet William then said she , with you I with [ l ] l agree , I never saw a man like thee , so pleasing unto me . So then they both concluded , and to the Church did go , Sweet William and fair Betty they made a dainty show . The best of the City were in all th [ e ] ir Garments rare , But none like B etty , fair and pretty , among them could compare , For they were admired by Rich and Poor , Declaring such a Couple they never saw before , And now they Married be as all people may see , And thus sweet Betty , fair and pretty , & amp ; william do agree . Printed for D. J. in the Strand . True Love Indeed . Being the Courtship of William ------ of Portsmouth , to his Sweet-Heart Betty . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . C Ome hither , my dear Betty , and fit thou down by me , thou art the fairest Creature that ever I did see ; all the things that I will have , nothing of you I crave , if that thou wilt but love me I will maintain you brave : for thou art my jewel , my joy and delight : And I will ever love thee , though People may us spite : if thou'l be true to me , I will be true to thee , My dearest Betty , fair & amp ; pretty , that thy friends shall see . Sweet William it's beneath you to marry a poor maid , And you a great Rich Grocer , and have a mighty trade : when that we married be , you then will say to me , I might have had a Lady , or one of high Degree : indeed Sir , my Parents are all very Poor , And I think a Poorer maiden you never saw before , And therefore Sir said she , I pray now pardon me You may have a Fortune of a certain nearer your degree . Sweet Betty it's not for treasure I ever marry shall , I have a trade already to maintain us withal ; if that thou'lt married be , my dearest love , to me , I do not care for wealth , nor any one of High Degree : and if that you will not have me , I do declare , My Trade will soon decay , and I fallen into Despair , if thou'll be true to me , I will be true to thee , my dearest Betty , fair and pretty , I love none but thee . Kind William now I pray you your loving Suit forbear , we see how many maidens are drawn into the snare , For your Parents they will frown , & amp ; think to run me down Because I am but poor , and you of great renown . for it they unto me should prove unkind , And in a little space that you should altar your mind , such things there often be , as many people see , and that's the Reason for this season I shall not agree . I prithee don't deny me Betty , nor strive to break my heart , For indeed , I should be Ruined , if that we should part , Come fit thee down my Dear , these things Love never fear , There is no Creature , in that Nature shall abuse my Dear : sweet Betty I have asked my friends consent , And they indeed do tell me they are very well very content , so let us both agree , next week to married be , my dearest Jewel be not cruel , I'll be true to thee . Your words have been so winning I cannot you deny , Should you prove false to me with sorrow I shall cry ; But if you do prove true , there will be none like you , So brisk and rare none can compare , my Dearest that is true : So now I am Resolved to altar my life , and to change my condition , and be a married wife , sweet William then said she , with you I with [ l ] l agree , I never saw a man like thee , so pleasing unto me . So then they both concluded , and to the Church did go , Sweet William and fair Betty they made a dainty show . The best of the City were in all th [ e ] ir Garments rare , But none like B etty , fair and pretty , among them could compare , For they were admired by Rich and Poor , Declaring such a Couple they never saw before , And now they Married be as all people may see , And thus sweet Betty , fair and pretty , & amp ; william do agree . Printed for D. J. in the Strand . 