Diddle , Diddle . Or , The Kind Country Lovers . With sly insinuations he persuades her And by the bans of Love , along he leads her . Relating pleasant stories for to bind her And all to make her unto him prove kinder . And so in Love at last they live together With pleasant days enjoying one another . Tune of Lavender green , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . L Avenders green , diddle , diddle Lavenders blue , you must love me , diddle , diddle cause I love you . I herd one say , diddle , diddle , since I came hither That you & amp ; I diddle , diddle , must lie together , My Hostess maid , diddle , diddle her name was Nell , She was a Lass , diddle , diddle that I loved well . But if she die Diddle , diddle , by some mishap , Then she shall lie , Diddle , diddle under the Tap . That she may drink Diddle , diddle , when she's a dry , Because she loved Diddle , diddle my Dog & amp ; I . Call up your Maids Diddle , diddle set them to work , Some to make Hay , Diddle , diddle some to the Kork . Some to make Hay , Diddle , diddle , some to the Corn While you and I Diddle , diddle , keep the bed warm . Let the birds sing , Diddle , diddle and the lambs play ; We shall be safe Diddle , diddle out of harms way . James at the George , Diddle , diddle Sue and the Swan , He loves his maid Diddle diddle , she loves her man . But if they chance Diddle , diddle for to be found , Catch them i'th Corn Diddle diddle put them ith pound . I herd a bird Diddle , diddle sing in my Ear Maids will be scarce Diddle , diddle , the next New year . For young men are Diddle diddle so wanton grown That they never mind Diddle , diddle , which is their own . Down in the Vale Diddle diddle where flowers do grow , And the Trees bud Diddle diddle all on a row . A brisk young man Diddle diddle met with a Maid , And laid her down , Diddle diddle under the shade . Where they did play Diddle , diddle & amp ; Kiss & amp ; Court , Like Lambs in May Diddle diddle making fine sport . There lives a Lass Diddle diddle over the Green , She sells good Ale Diddle diddle think what I mean . Oft have I been Diddle diddle with her I'th dark And yet I never Diddle diddle shot at the mark . But now my Dear Diddle diddle have at thy bumm For I do swear Diddle diddle now I am come . I will be kind Diddle diddle until I die , Then pretheee love Diddle diddle my Dog & amp ; I . For thee & amp ; I Diddle diddle now are all one , And we will lie Diddle diddle no more alone . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . Diddle , Diddle . Or , The Kind Country Lovers . With sly insinuations he persuades her And by the bans of Love , along he leads her . Relating pleasant stories for to bind her And all to make her unto him prove kinder . And so in Love at last they live together With pleasant days enjoying one another . Tune of Lavender green , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . L Avenders green , diddle , diddle Lavenders blue , you must love me , diddle , diddle cause I love you . I herd one say , diddle , diddle , since I came hither That you & amp ; I diddle , diddle , must lie together , My Hostess maid , diddle , diddle her name was Nell , She was a Lass , diddle , diddle that I loved well . But if she die Diddle , diddle , by some mishap , Then she shall lie , Diddle , diddle under the Tap . That she may drink Diddle , diddle , when she's a dry , Because she loved Diddle , diddle my Dog & amp ; I . Call up your Maids Diddle , diddle set them to work , Some to make Hay , Diddle , diddle some to the Kork . Some to make Hay , Diddle , diddle , some to the Corn While you and I Diddle , diddle , keep the bed warm . Let the birds sing , Diddle , diddle and the lambs play ; We shall be safe Diddle , diddle out of harms way . James at the George , Diddle , diddle Sue and the Swan , He loves his maid Diddle diddle , she loves her man . But if they chance Diddle , diddle for to be found , Catch them i'th Corn Diddle diddle put them ith pound . I herd a bird Diddle , diddle sing in my Ear Maids will be scarce Diddle , diddle , the next New year . For young men are Diddle diddle so wanton grown That they never mind Diddle , diddle , which is their own . Down in the Vale Diddle diddle where flowers do grow , And the Trees bud Diddle diddle all on a row . A brisk young man Diddle diddle met with a Maid , And laid her down , Diddle diddle under the shade . Where they did play Diddle , diddle & amp ; Kiss & amp ; Court , Like Lambs in May Diddle diddle making fine sport . There lives a Lass Diddle diddle over the Green , She sells good Ale Diddle diddle think what I mean . Oft have I been Diddle diddle with her I'th dark And yet I never Diddle diddle shot at the mark . But now my Dear Diddle diddle have at thy bumm For I do swear Diddle diddle now I am come . I will be kind Diddle diddle until I die , Then pretheee love Diddle diddle my Dog & amp ; I . For thee & amp ; I Diddle diddle now are all one , And we will lie Diddle diddle no more alone . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . 