THE LONDON LADY OR , Wise and Wanton , Showing how a London Lass was Courteously Entertained by Eight Sweethearts , a Waterman , a Seaman , a Scrivener , a Taylor , a Shoemaker , a Cooper , a Lawyer , and at last was Married to a Joiner . Whence every Maid may learn Discretion , and how to carry them - selves towards their Heartbroken Lovers . Tune of , Four pence half penny Farthing ; Or , Tom the Taylor . THere lived a Lass in London Town , both handsome Fair and Witty , Another such could not be found , in Country nor in City ; She lived by her Wits , she lived by her Wits , which made her many a Bargain , She turned a Whore , and god no more , but Four pence half penny Farthing . A lusty Lad a Waterman , did see her when't was early ; He did admire her Gloves and Fan , and Courted her most rarely ; But he god Kissing byed , he god kissing byed , and spent his Pay to a Farthing ; He huged all Night , till it was light , and g [ oh ] tO the POX i th the bargain . A Seaman that did want a Voige , a Crown he freely lent her ; Then briskly he did go on Board , and to the Straits did Venture ; But she was a Fireship , she was a Fireship , her Deck not worth a Farthing , He Cursed and Swore , and called her Whore , and would not stand to the Bargain . A Scrivener found her at a Shop , and asked if she sold Parchment ; Quoth she I'll show you soft and white , if you will be my Merchant ; It's good said she , it sinks quoth he , I'm cheated in my Bargain ; Quoth she I think . your P en wants Ink , you Write not worth a Farthing . A Taylor that was out of Work , inquired if she was nimble , Quoth she if you'll find Chalk and Sheer , I'll fit you with a Thimble . But he god Cabbage byed , he god Cabbage byed , that was not worth a Farthing ; He sowed a stitch , and god the Itch , and spoiled his Needle to the Bargain . A young Man of the Gentle Craft , a Journey Man Shoemaker , Did gravely kiss her in the dark , and took her for a quaker ; He set her down upon her Lap , and there struck up a Bargain , His Awl was nought , the Lady Laughed , you do not earn a Farthing . A Cooper that did bear about a Mallet and a driver , He swore that he her mind would ease , and of her Grief deprive her ; He clasped her round about the Wast , and turned her up to right her , He made her stoop , and drove a Hoop , but she was never the tighter . A Lawyer he did smile on her , and asked if she was pliant : Dum Procitors Plead at my Bar , yet you shall be my Client ; She for a Trick , his Gold did pick , and left him never a Farthing , She god Money byed , she god Money byed , and bragged of her fine Bargain . At last their came a Joiner bold , was Handsome Brisk and Airy , Without delay he fell to work , and he the Whench did carry ; I have ( quoth he ) and Augar sharp , if you'll find Board , I'll Boar it , I'll drive a Nale that will not fail , though there's been none before it . You Iron-hearted London Maids , that never speak discreitly , To Lovesick Lovers , when they come , at Night , to use you sweetly ; Take here Example , by this Nymph , not too Chaste , nor too Wanton : But live by your Wits , and live by your Wits , like Mrs . Mall M ark Anton. Licensed , and Entered according to Order , June the 19th . 1689. LONDON : P rinted by John Wallis , in White-Fryars , 1689 . THE LONDON LADY OR , Wise and Wanton , Showing how a London Lass was Courteously Entertained by Eight Sweethearts , a Waterman , a Seaman , a Scrivener , a Taylor , a Shoemaker , a Cooper , a Lawyer , and at last was Married to a Joiner . Whence every Maid may learn Discretion , and how to carry them - selves towards their Heartbroken Lovers . Tune of , Four pence half penny Farthing ; Or , Tom the Taylor . THere lived a Lass in London Town , both handsome Fair and Witty , Another such could not be found , in Country nor in City ; She lived by her Wits , she lived by her Wits , which made her many a Bargain , She turned a Whore , and god no more , but Four pence half penny Farthing . A lusty Lad a Waterman , did see her when't was early ; He did admire her Gloves and Fan , and Courted her most rarely ; But he god Kissing byed , he god kissing byed , and spent his Pay to a Farthing ; He huged all Night , till it was light , and g [ oh ] tO the POX i th the bargain . A Seaman that did want a Voige , a Crown he freely lent her ; Then briskly he did go on Board , and to the Straits did Venture ; But she was a Fireship , she was a Fireship , her Deck not worth a Farthing , He Cursed and Swore , and called her Whore , and would not stand to the Bargain . A Scrivener found her at a Shop , and asked if she sold Parchment ; Quoth she I'll show you soft and white , if you will be my Merchant ; It's good said she , it sinks quoth he , I'm cheated in my Bargain ; Quoth she I think . your P en wants Ink , you Write not worth a Farthing . A Taylor that was out of Work , inquired if she was nimble , Quoth she if you'll find Chalk and Sheer , I'll fit you with a Thimble . But he god Cabbage byed , he god Cabbage byed , that was not worth a Farthing ; He sowed a stitch , and god the Itch , and spoiled his Needle to the Bargain . A young Man of the Gentle Craft , a Journey Man Shoemaker , Did gravely kiss her in the dark , and took her for a quaker ; He set her down upon her Lap , and there struck up a Bargain , His Awl was nought , the Lady Laughed , you do not earn a Farthing . A Cooper that did bear about a Mallet and a driver , He swore that he her mind would ease , and of her Grief deprive her ; He clasped her round about the Wast , and turned her up to right her , He made her stoop , and drove a Hoop , but she was never the tighter . A Lawyer he did smile on her , and asked if she was pliant : Dum Procitors Plead at my Bar , yet you shall be my Client ; She for a Trick , his Gold did pick , and left him never a Farthing , She god Money byed , she god Money byed , and bragged of her fine Bargain . At last their came a Joiner bold , was Handsome Brisk and Airy , Without delay he fell to work , and he the Whench did carry ; I have ( quoth he ) and Augar sharp , if you'll find Board , I'll Boar it , I'll drive a Nale that will not fail , though there's been none before it . You Iron-hearted London Maids , that never speak discreitly , To Lovesick Lovers , when they come , at Night , to use you sweetly ; Take here Example , by this Nymph , not too Chaste , nor too Wanton : But live by your Wits , and live by your Wits , like Mrs . Mall M ark Anton. Licensed , and Entered according to Order , June the 19th . 1689. LONDON : P rinted by John Wallis , in White-Fryars , 1689 . 