The Country Blacksmith : OR , The young Damosel's Desire to be comforted and court - ed by the jolly Son of Vulcan . To the Tune of , Found Boy . NEar Mitchel ' ever , now as I herd them say , There lives a brisk Damosel both frolic and gay ; This Damosel she's handsome both proper and tall , And Lo [ y ] all at Heart , the best Virtue of all : But in Private she weeps , and makes pitiful moan For the loss of the Blacksmith , she's clearly undone . But as she walked out , one Evening very late , For to fetched [ c ] h up her Ducks , the truth to relate , There she met a young Thrasher , both crafty and wise , And his Hands it flipt up between her too Eyes ; This young Man declaredm truth now of all , That this Damosel was handsome , but her C-y was balled . But as this young Damosel , to Wood-me-cut came , There she met with a Blacksmith , that was right for the game ; He took this young Damosel by the lily white Hand , And he told her , that he had both House and good Land , And he loved her so dear , as he did his own life , And was in hope , for to have her to be his kind Wife . But when she came home , she was troubled in Mind , For thinking of the Blacksmith she had left behind ; Then to her loving Brother these words she did relate , For the love of sweet William my Heart it will break ; There she sighed , and she cried and made pitiful more [ and ] For the Love of the Blacksmith , I am clearly undone : But as this young Damosel was making sad moan , There came two young Fellows walking along ; They stepped to this Damosel , and to her they said , Why make you such moan , you well favoured Maid ; Then presently to them these words she did relate , For the Love of the Blacksmith , my heart it will break . Sweet heart , quoth the young Men , a Letter we'll send To this jolly Blacksmith and make him thy Friend ; Then needs I must thank you , the Damosel replied , And if he's but willing to make me his Bride , On my pleasant Anvil , the Blacksmith shall beatrice , And we'll kiss together at every heat . When this she had said , then to writing they went , And these very lines to the Blacksmith they sent : Good Fellow , the Damosel does weep and complain , As fearing she never shall see you again ; Return and be kind , for poor Creature she longs For to have a brisk touch with her Hammer and Tongue's . Her Forge it is ready , then make no delay But pack up your Tools now and hasten away , It's fit you should strike , while the Iron is hight ; Pray let not her kindness , and love be forgotten ; Return now with speed , for poor Creature she longs , For to have a brish tou [ c ] h , etc . When this jolly Bl [ a ] cksmith the Letter had read , And Answer he sent declaring he'd wed , If she was but willing , and thump it about , For he was a Blacksmith courageous and stout ; That knew how to give a young Damosel content , O! this was the answer which to her was sent : She blamed the Bearer , that brought her the news , Yet nevertheless , she at length did excuse That fault , a [ n ] worser began to be merry at Heart , As knowing the Blacksmith could play well his part : To please a young Woman , he had the best skill , Therefore she adores and admires him still . When this to a happy Conclusion is brought , And he for a while at her Anvil has wrought , We'll give you a farther account of his Blade , For his is and Artist , and good at his Trade ; He'll thump it about in a froli [ c ] ksome vein , She will have no cause in the least to complain . Licensed according to Order . LODON : Printed for J. Bowyer . The Country Blacksmith : OR , The young Damosel's Desire to be comforted and court - ed by the jolly Son of Vulcan . To the Tune of , Found Boy . NEar Mitchel ' ever , now as I herd them say , There lives a brisk Damosel both frolic and gay ; This Damosel she's handsome both proper and tall , And Lo [ y ] all at Heart , the best Virtue of all : But in Private she weeps , and makes pitiful moan For the loss of the Blacksmith , she's clearly undone . But as she walked out , one Evening very late , For to fetched [ c ] h up her Ducks , the truth to relate , There she met a young Thrasher , both crafty and wise , And his Hands it flipt up between her too Eyes ; This young Man declaredm truth now of all , That this Damosel was handsome , but her C-y was balled . But as this young Damosel , to Wood-me-cut came , There she met with a Blacksmith , that was right for the game ; He took this young Damosel by the lily white Hand , And he told her , that he had both House and good Land , And he loved her so dear , as he did his own life , And was in hope , for to have her to be his kind Wife . But when she came home , she was troubled in Mind , For thinking of the Blacksmith she had left behind ; Then to her loving Brother these words she did relate , For the love of sweet William my Heart it will break ; There she sighed , and she cried and made pitiful more [ and ] For the Love of the Blacksmith , I am clearly undone : But as this young Damosel was making sad moan , There came two young Fellows walking along ; They stepped to this Damosel , and to her they said , Why make you such moan , you well favoured Maid ; Then presently to them these words she did relate , For the Love of the Blacksmith , my heart it will break . Sweet heart , quoth the young Men , a Letter we'll send To this jolly Blacksmith and make him thy Friend ; Then needs I must thank you , the Damosel replied , And if he's but willing to make me his Bride , On my pleasant Anvil , the Blacksmith shall beatrice , And we'll kiss together at every heat . When this she had said , then to writing they went , And these very lines to the Blacksmith they sent : Good Fellow , the Damosel does weep and complain , As fearing she never shall see you again ; Return and be kind , for poor Creature she longs For to have a brisk touch with her Hammer and Tongue's . Her Forge it is ready , then make no delay But pack up your Tools now and hasten away , It's fit you should strike , while the Iron is hight ; Pray let not her kindness , and love be forgotten ; Return now with speed , for poor Creature she longs , For to have a brish tou [ c ] h , etc . When this jolly Bl [ a ] cksmith the Letter had read , And Answer he sent declaring he'd wed , If she was but willing , and thump it about , For he was a Blacksmith courageous and stout ; That knew how to give a young Damosel content , O! this was the answer which to her was sent : She blamed the Bearer , that brought her the news , Yet nevertheless , she at length did excuse That fault , a [ n ] worser began to be merry at Heart , As knowing the Blacksmith could play well his part : To please a young Woman , he had the best skill , Therefore she adores and admires him still . When this to a happy Conclusion is brought , And he for a while at her Anvil has wrought , We'll give you a farther account of his Blade , For his is and Artist , and good at his Trade ; He'll thump it about in a froli [ c ] ksome vein , She will have no cause in the least to complain . Licensed according to Order . LODON : Printed for J. Bowyer . 