Willy and Molly : OR , A Match to go a Maying Billy and Molly together must go , To View the green fields , as Lovers you know , Delight by themselves , their minds to relate , So thinking to mend their Love-wounded state . To the Tune of , I am a Maid , and a very good Maid . S Ays Billy to Molly , together let's go , We must go a Maying , young people do so : But while we do walk , am clearly afraid , Thou'lt try me if I am a very good maid . No Molly , don't fear , I do not thee take , To be one that a breach of Commandments make : Though you may remember the words I have said , I'm certain her Husband Never found her a maid . It's often my Billy , men meet with deceit , And think they've a Maid , when it is a mere Cheat : For one I do know , by fair words was betrayed , I'm certain her Husband Never found her a maid . Dear molly , my meaning , do thou not misconstrue , Think me not so rude , or so much like a Monster , That when this Trial , I do thee persuade , I'll reckon thee less Then a very good maid . But now for my self , I do freely protest , What ever I did , it was all but in jest : Yet kisses and such tricks , Have often been played , But I am a Maid , and a very good maid . Well molly , to morrow , we'll go to the Fair , ' le give thee a Treat , and when we are there , We'll have a close Room , and i'll venture the Trade , And be what thou wilt , I'll take thee for a maid . No , Billy , I fear that when thou hast done , And certain thou art , thou my favour hast wone : Thou'lt leave me , and then I am sorely afraid , I shall be accounted No very good maid . Come molly never fear , for I'll venture at all , I will have a bout , thou it cost me a fallen : O Billy , forbear , for I am afraid , You'll after to morrow , Never see me a maid . Well Billy , i'll venture , and be sure you do mind ; The promise you make , that to me you'll be kind : To you my whole heart I open have laid ; You shall try if I am not A very good maid . My Molly but when we do come to this Trial , Be sure you submit , without a denial : When like mars and Venus , a while we have played ; I'm sure I shall leave thee , No very good maid . But Billy , my Billy , you know very well ; This may perhaps make my Belly to swell : Which sure will discover , the Tricks we have played , Then I shall be counted A Whore , and no maid . No , rather there [ e ] fo , I will tell you my mind , That you give no account as soon as you find My labour's not lost , but there's proof of the Trade , I'll marry thee , then They won't count thee a maid P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , I Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Willy and Molly : OR , A Match to go a Maying Billy and Molly together must go , To View the green fields , as Lovers you know , Delight by themselves , their minds to relate , So thinking to mend their Love-wounded state . To the Tune of , I am a Maid , and a very good Maid . S Ays Billy to Molly , together let's go , We must go a Maying , young people do so : But while we do walk , am clearly afraid , Thou'lt try me if I am a very good maid . No Molly , don't fear , I do not thee take , To be one that a breach of Commandments make : Though you may remember the words I have said , I'm certain her Husband Never found her a maid . It's often my Billy , men meet with deceit , And think they've a Maid , when it is a mere Cheat : For one I do know , by fair words was betrayed , I'm certain her Husband Never found her a maid . Dear molly , my meaning , do thou not misconstrue , Think me not so rude , or so much like a Monster , That when this Trial , I do thee persuade , I'll reckon thee less Then a very good maid . But now for my self , I do freely protest , What ever I did , it was all but in jest : Yet kisses and such tricks , Have often been played , But I am a Maid , and a very good maid . Well molly , to morrow , we'll go to the Fair , ' le give thee a Treat , and when we are there , We'll have a close Room , and i'll venture the Trade , And be what thou wilt , I'll take thee for a maid . No , Billy , I fear that when thou hast done , And certain thou art , thou my favour hast wone : Thou'lt leave me , and then I am sorely afraid , I shall be accounted No very good maid . Come molly never fear , for I'll venture at all , I will have a bout , thou it cost me a fallen : O Billy , forbear , for I am afraid , You'll after to morrow , Never see me a maid . Well Billy , i'll venture , and be sure you do mind ; The promise you make , that to me you'll be kind : To you my whole heart I open have laid ; You shall try if I am not A very good maid . My Molly but when we do come to this Trial , Be sure you submit , without a denial : When like mars and Venus , a while we have played ; I'm sure I shall leave thee , No very good maid . But Billy , my Billy , you know very well ; This may perhaps make my Belly to swell : Which sure will discover , the Tricks we have played , Then I shall be counted A Whore , and no maid . No , rather there [ e ] fo , I will tell you my mind , That you give no account as soon as you find My labour's not lost , but there's proof of the Trade , I'll marry thee , then They won't count thee a maid P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , I Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 