THE Lusty Friar of Dublin : With and Account how he was catched a Bed with another Man's Wife , and for that Cause was adjudged to part with his Codlings to his great Grief . To the Tune of Old Simon the King . Licensed according to Order . TO Here was and old Friar of late , that lived in Dublin City , And hard by the Castle great gate , now pray now attend to this Ditty : He lodged at the House of a Squire , whose Lady would often presume , To suffer this bald-pated Friar , to put his old Pope into Rome . This was and Irish Friar , This was and Irish Friar , who every day the Wanton did play And Cuckold his Landlord the Squire . His Landlord one Morning did fetch , a Walk which he loved as his life , Returning again he did catch , the Friar a Bed with his Wife : He run to the Covent , behold ! this Friar in hope's to degrade , And there a sad Story he told , how he a poor Cuckold was made . This was and Irish Friar , etc His brothers all by Consent , this Friar they there did beslave , Allotting him that Punishment , the Squire would covet or crave . The Landlord courageous and stout , declared to the Friary crew , That both his Stones should be cut out , that he no more mischief might do , This was and Irish Friar , This was and Irish Friar , who every day the Wanton did play , etc They strait for a Surgeon did send , and gave him and hundred Pound , That he might the Friar befriend , and smother this terrible Wound : For though her astray then did run , such things we must often excuse , For surely he would be undone , if he should those Play-fellows lose . This was and Irish Friar , etc That day , that you must do the thing , we in the next Room will abide , A pair of Dog-stones you may bring , the which will the Mystery hide . He must on a Table be bound , and while you this work are about , Though you never give him a Wound , yet order him then to cry out . This was and Irish Friar , etc The Landlord began to draw near , when they had bid the Surgeon prove true , And though he's a Friar never fear , to make him and Eunuch too . Here take up your hundred pound , here Silver Guineas gullore , His Landlord said , I will be bound , when done , to give half as much more . This was and Irish Friar , etc The day being come , he was tied fast down with a strong hempen-band , His Arms and his Legs open wide , he could nat stir head , foot or hand . The Friars , and Landlord likewise , sat waiting all in the next Room ; To hear the most horrible cries , when Gelding was to be his Doom . This was and Irish Friar , etc The Friar no fear had at all , but there did most patiently lie ; And oft to the Surgeon did call , to Counsel him when he should cry , The Surgeon he thus did reply , you need not to keep such a roat , I'll warrant you by and by , you'll find when it's time to cry out . This was and Irish Friar , etc The Friar was never at rest , but still would be acting of Groans , He counted they were but in jest , but the Surgeon strait whipped off his Stones . As soon as this mischief befell him , though he was both lusty and stout , The Surgeon , he need not to tell him , he found it was time to cry out . This was and Irish Friar , etc The Friars all running with speed , as soon as his Cries they did hear , And seeing their Brother to bleed , the Rogues they did tremble for fear , The Surgeon said , 'twas but Discretion , to Geld all , were there many more , Then Lasses might come to Confession , And they not debauch them no more , The Friar he cursed the Knife , The Friar he cursed the Knife ; He sighs and he groans for the loss of his Stones He had rather have parted with Life . Printed for P. Broksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Lusty Friar of Dublin : With and Account how he was catched a Bed with another Man's Wife , and for that Cause was adjudged to part with his Codlings to his great Grief . To the Tune of Old Simon the King . Licensed according to Order . TO Here was and old Friar of late , that lived in Dublin City , And hard by the Castle great gate , now pray now attend to this Ditty : He lodged at the House of a Squire , whose Lady would often presume , To suffer this bald-pated Friar , to put his old Pope into Rome . This was and Irish Friar , This was and Irish Friar , who every day the Wanton did play And Cuckold his Landlord the Squire . His Landlord one Morning did fetch , a Walk which he loved as his life , Returning again he did catch , the Friar a Bed with his Wife : He run to the Covent , behold ! this Friar in hope's to degrade , And there a sad Story he told , how he a poor Cuckold was made . This was and Irish Friar , etc His brothers all by Consent , this Friar they there did beslave , Allotting him that Punishment , the Squire would covet or crave . The Landlord courageous and stout , declared to the Friary crew , That both his Stones should be cut out , that he no more mischief might do , This was and Irish Friar , This was and Irish Friar , who every day the Wanton did play , etc They strait for a Surgeon did send , and gave him and hundred Pound , That he might the Friar befriend , and smother this terrible Wound : For though her astray then did run , such things we must often excuse , For surely he would be undone , if he should those Play-fellows lose . This was and Irish Friar , etc That day , that you must do the thing , we in the next Room will abide , A pair of Dog-stones you may bring , the which will the Mystery hide . He must on a Table be bound , and while you this work are about , Though you never give him a Wound , yet order him then to cry out . This was and Irish Friar , etc The Landlord began to draw near , when they had bid the Surgeon prove true , And though he's a Friar never fear , to make him and Eunuch too . Here take up your hundred pound , here Silver Guineas gullore , His Landlord said , I will be bound , when done , to give half as much more . This was and Irish Friar , etc The day being come , he was tied fast down with a strong hempen-band , His Arms and his Legs open wide , he could nat stir head , foot or hand . The Friars , and Landlord likewise , sat waiting all in the next Room ; To hear the most horrible cries , when Gelding was to be his Doom . This was and Irish Friar , etc The Friar no fear had at all , but there did most patiently lie ; And oft to the Surgeon did call , to Counsel him when he should cry , The Surgeon he thus did reply , you need not to keep such a roat , I'll warrant you by and by , you'll find when it's time to cry out . This was and Irish Friar , etc The Friar was never at rest , but still would be acting of Groans , He counted they were but in jest , but the Surgeon strait whipped off his Stones . As soon as this mischief befell him , though he was both lusty and stout , The Surgeon , he need not to tell him , he found it was time to cry out . This was and Irish Friar , etc The Friars all running with speed , as soon as his Cries they did hear , And seeing their Brother to bleed , the Rogues they did tremble for fear , The Surgeon said , 'twas but Discretion , to Geld all , were there many more , Then Lasses might come to Confession , And they not debauch them no more , The Friar he cursed the Knife , The Friar he cursed the Knife ; He sighs and he groans for the loss of his Stones He had rather have parted with Life . Printed for P. Broksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 