A New SONG , of a TAYLOR and his MAID . It was a Friend , and one of the same Trade , Who did desire these Verses to be made It being truth each word that here is in't , They did desire it might be put in Print . To the Tune of The Black-Smithe Song , Or o brave Popery . O F a pretty Jest I shall you tell , Of a Taylor that loved his Maid so well , And than ' he had a Wife , yet she boar the Bell ; As now is made openly known brave Boys , As now is made openly known . This Jest was played in London City , It's certainly true , and very pretty , Then pray now listen unto my Ditty : Which now is made openly known brave Boys , Which now is made openly known . The Taylor fell Sick , and his Bed he did take ; Crying out dear Wife my Belly does ache , Then hast to the Apothecary for my sake , As openly now is made known brave Boys , As openly now is made known . No sooner she's gone , but he stamps with his Foot , The Maid run up stairs and straight they fell tooed , Though with scouring of Pewter she looked like a Slut ; As now is made openly known brave Boys , as now is made openly known , His wife being Jealous she falsified back , Mistrusting her maid to be a great Crack , And found her Husband at her , a straining his back ; Oh this was too openly seen brave Boys , Oh this was too openly seen . His Wife she was vexed and grieved so soar , That she called her Maid Slut , bold Strumpet , & amp ; Whore And took her and kicked her quite out of the door : And openly then 'twas made known brave Boys , And openly then 'twas made known . Then unto her husband with fury and might , She made a loud voice , and she uttered her spite , Crying out you're a Rogue , and robs me off my right ; Which now i'll make openly known brave Boys , Which now i'll make openly known . O Husband , Oh Husband , if this be your Trade , To fain your self Sick , for to lie with your Maid , No more Physic i'll fetch you , mark what I have said . And it shall be open made known brave boys , And it shall be open made known . Her Husband desired her , her Tongue for to hold , And told her it was but in vain for to scold , For his Maid should want neither for Silver nor Gold , Although to the world it was known brave Boys , etc For though you do grumble and at me do frown , And make me a shamed throughout all the Town , Yet my Maid shall not want for the price of a Gown : So long as she uses her own Boys , etc He gave her a Gown of good stuff that was new , With a promise for ever to her to prove true , And her present sorrows with Joy he'd renew : Though unto the World it was known brave Boys , etc Her Master a Chamber for her he did take , And promised her kindness he'd never forsake , Which was the next way his Wives heart for to brake . As openly it is made known brave Boys , etc Was ever poor Woman so served by her Maid , And robbed of her right by and Impudent Jade , Who for this long time has used the same Trade : Which now is made openly known brave Boys , etc The words he replied to his good Wife again , Was prey be contented and let it remain , For I hope for some fruits of my Labour and Pain , Though now it's made openly known brave Boys , etc So in my Conclusion this end I do make , Wishing that all Maids hereby warning may take , That they give no more Physic to cure belly-ache : For fear to their shame it be known brave Boys , etc For why this young Maid for certain and sure , Turned Doctor too soon her Master to cure , But now for her pains , she is counted a Whore . As openly now is made known brave Boys , As openly now is made known . Printed for A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms , in Green-Arbor in the Little-Old-Baily . A New SONG , of a TAYLOR and his MAID . It was a Friend , and one of the same Trade , Who did desire these Verses to be made It being truth each word that here is in't , They did desire it might be put in Print . To the Tune of The Black-Smithe Song , Or o brave Popery . O F a pretty Jest I shall you tell , Of a Taylor that loved his Maid so well , And than ' he had a Wife , yet she boar the Bell ; As now is made openly known brave Boys , As now is made openly known . This Jest was played in London City , It's certainly true , and very pretty , Then pray now listen unto my Ditty : Which now is made openly known brave Boys , Which now is made openly known . The Taylor fell Sick , and his Bed he did take ; Crying out dear Wife my Belly does ache , Then hast to the Apothecary for my sake , As openly now is made known brave Boys , As openly now is made known . No sooner she's gone , but he stamps with his Foot , The Maid run up stairs and straight they fell tooed , Though with scouring of Pewter she looked like a Slut ; As now is made openly known brave Boys , as now is made openly known , His wife being Jealous she falsified back , Mistrusting her maid to be a great Crack , And found her Husband at her , a straining his back ; Oh this was too openly seen brave Boys , Oh this was too openly seen . His Wife she was vexed and grieved so soar , That she called her Maid Slut , bold Strumpet , & amp ; Whore And took her and kicked her quite out of the door : And openly then 'twas made known brave Boys , And openly then 'twas made known . Then unto her husband with fury and might , She made a loud voice , and she uttered her spite , Crying out you're a Rogue , and robs me off my right ; Which now i'll make openly known brave Boys , Which now i'll make openly known . O Husband , Oh Husband , if this be your Trade , To fain your self Sick , for to lie with your Maid , No more Physic i'll fetch you , mark what I have said . And it shall be open made known brave boys , And it shall be open made known . Her Husband desired her , her Tongue for to hold , And told her it was but in vain for to scold , For his Maid should want neither for Silver nor Gold , Although to the world it was known brave Boys , etc For though you do grumble and at me do frown , And make me a shamed throughout all the Town , Yet my Maid shall not want for the price of a Gown : So long as she uses her own Boys , etc He gave her a Gown of good stuff that was new , With a promise for ever to her to prove true , And her present sorrows with Joy he'd renew : Though unto the World it was known brave Boys , etc Her Master a Chamber for her he did take , And promised her kindness he'd never forsake , Which was the next way his Wives heart for to brake . As openly it is made known brave Boys , etc Was ever poor Woman so served by her Maid , And robbed of her right by and Impudent Jade , Who for this long time has used the same Trade : Which now is made openly known brave Boys , etc The words he replied to his good Wife again , Was prey be contented and let it remain , For I hope for some fruits of my Labour and Pain , Though now it's made openly known brave Boys , etc So in my Conclusion this end I do make , Wishing that all Maids hereby warning may take , That they give no more Physic to cure belly-ache : For fear to their shame it be known brave Boys , etc For why this young Maid for certain and sure , Turned Doctor too soon her Master to cure , But now for her pains , she is counted a Whore . As openly now is made known brave Boys , As openly now is made known . Printed for A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms , in Green-Arbor in the Little-Old-Baily . 