You youngmen all I pray draw near , That does desire a song to hear , It will teach you what wife for to choose , Who to take , and who to refuse , And a man may have a woman in a trice , They are termed to the chance o'the Dice , But you must venture , have at all , Whither you stand or get a fallen . To the Tune of , The World goes merrily round . Y Ou young men that want skill in wooing , and if you desire to be wed , Take counsel of me in your doing , for fear lest you should be misled : Do not my kind proffer refuse , it will never you deceive , It will teach you what women to choose , and what creature you had best to believe ; But chielfly I wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that can cousin and swear , can also dissemble and lie , In the first place I do you advice , take one not too high nor too low , But according unto your own cise , you may well her qualities know ; Take one not too rich nor too poor , nor one that's a dirty foul slut , The one she may Babble too loud , the other may poison the gut ; But chiefly , etc It is better to wed and honest maid , although she be never so poor , Then to wed a Rich Gossip in stead , lest afterwards she should turn Whore ; And a widow whose wealth does surmount , if that you do marry for gain , She'l call you to double account , so your pleasure will turn to your pain , But chiefly , etc Beside she is apt to be jealous , which is the forerunner of strife , As good to be hanged at the Gallows , as marry with such a cross wife ; And now in the Second Part , I am purposed for to resite My skill in Physiognomy , wherein I will show you a light ; But chiefly I wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that can cousin and swear , can also dissemble and lie . B Y colour of Hair of the head , or else by the favour o'th face , I will teach you with whom for to wed , and who you had best to embrace : The man that will choose him a mate , by colour of hair or complexion , He must use many ways to entreat , lest he be brought under subjection . For chiefly I wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that can cousin and swear , will also dissemble and lie . You must note both her forehead and brow , her cheeks , eyes , nose , and her chin , God Cupid those things does allow , when you first to woo her begin : All is not true gold that does glitter , nor all is not led that looks dull : Fair Venus that chief of the sisters , made Vulcan her husband a gull , But chiefly , etc So many times beautiful Lasses , which holds there poor husbands in scorn , And cunningly breaks all the glass , and makes them drink out of the horn . She that hath her hair of bright yellow , and dressed like wyers of gold , If she meet with some pretty fellow , her husband may chance to Cuckold . But chiefly , etc But she that's by nature composed , with round cherry cheeks and read hair , But be she pink-eyed and long-nosed , believe me she is dangerous ware : The brown hair hath witty discourse , but commonly for her own ends , I like her a great deal the worse , because she dissembles with her friends , But chiefly , etc A wench with and ash-coloured face , her actions are often uncivil , Her tongue will her husband disgrace , just like to the second she-devil . But the bonny wench with the black brow , Oh she is a good one indeed , For she will be true to her trust , I would we had more of her breed . But chiefly , etc And thus have I told you my mind , concerning phesiognomy , I wish no harm to women kind , I swear by my honesty . lest I should some female offend , i'll lay by my pen and so rest , What ever in the ditty is pend , let youngmen take where they like best , But chiefly , etc But thus I may speak in regard , and i'll maintain my words in a trice , Some women may well be compared , to the best chance or the worst of the dice : Suppose a youngman goes to the dice , to venture his goods and his store , If he throw a sink or a since , then the game is his own for evermore . But chiefly , etc But if that his fortune be cross , he throws but a duce or and ace , His goods and his substance is lost , and he left in a pitiful case : Suppose in a like case , if a Lad , can get him a provident wife , His fortune can never be bad , he is made all the days of his life . But chiefly , etc But if that dame fortune do frown , that dis wife and he cannot agree , He is for ever cast down , by woeful experience you see ; Thus noble youngmen adieu , remember the words which I [ say ] , This song's like to prove to be true then by it and bear it away : But chiefly I wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that can cousin and swear , can also desemble and lie . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , on Saffron - hill , near Hatton-garden . You youngmen all I pray draw near , That does desire a song to hear , It will teach you what wife for to choose , Who to take , and who to refuse , And a man may have a woman in a trice , They are termed to the chance o'the Dice , But you must venture , have at all , Whither you stand or get a fallen . To the Tune of , The World goes merrily round . Y Ou young men that want skill in wooing , and if you desire to be wed , Take counsel of me in your doing , for fear lest you should be misled : Do not my kind proffer refuse , it will never you deceive , It will teach you what women to choose , and what creature you had best to believe ; But chielfly I wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that can cousin and swear , can also dissemble and lie , In the first place I do you advice , take one not too high nor too low , But according unto your own cise , you may well her qualities know ; Take one not too rich nor too poor , nor one that's a dirty foul slut , The one she may Babble too loud , the other may poison the gut ; But chiefly , etc It is better to wed and honest maid , although she be never so poor , Then to wed a Rich Gossip in stead , lest afterwards she should turn Whore ; And a widow whose wealth does surmount , if that you do marry for gain , She'l call you to double account , so your pleasure will turn to your pain , But chiefly , etc Beside she is apt to be jealous , which is the forerunner of strife , As good to be hanged at the Gallows , as marry with such a cross wife ; And now in the Second Part , I am purposed for to resite My skill in Physiognomy , wherein I will show you a light ; But chiefly I wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that can cousin and swear , can also dissemble and lie . B Y colour of Hair of the head , or else by the favour o'th face , I will teach you with whom for to wed , and who you had best to embrace : The man that will choose him a mate , by colour of hair or complexion , He must use many ways to entreat , lest he be brought under subjection . For chiefly I wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that can cousin and swear , will also dissemble and lie . You must note both her forehead and brow , her cheeks , eyes , nose , and her chin , God Cupid those things does allow , when you first to woo her begin : All is not true gold that does glitter , nor all is not led that looks dull : Fair Venus that chief of the sisters , made Vulcan her husband a gull , But chiefly , etc So many times beautiful Lasses , which holds there poor husbands in scorn , And cunningly breaks all the glass , and makes them drink out of the horn . She that hath her hair of bright yellow , and dressed like wyers of gold , If she meet with some pretty fellow , her husband may chance to Cuckold . But chiefly , etc But she that's by nature composed , with round cherry cheeks and read hair , But be she pink-eyed and long-nosed , believe me she is dangerous ware : The brown hair hath witty discourse , but commonly for her own ends , I like her a great deal the worse , because she dissembles with her friends , But chiefly , etc A wench with and ash-coloured face , her actions are often uncivil , Her tongue will her husband disgrace , just like to the second she-devil . But the bonny wench with the black brow , Oh she is a good one indeed , For she will be true to her trust , I would we had more of her breed . But chiefly , etc And thus have I told you my mind , concerning phesiognomy , I wish no harm to women kind , I swear by my honesty . lest I should some female offend , i'll lay by my pen and so rest , What ever in the ditty is pend , let youngmen take where they like best , But chiefly , etc But thus I may speak in regard , and i'll maintain my words in a trice , Some women may well be compared , to the best chance or the worst of the dice : Suppose a youngman goes to the dice , to venture his goods and his store , If he throw a sink or a since , then the game is his own for evermore . But chiefly , etc But if that his fortune be cross , he throws but a duce or and ace , His goods and his substance is lost , and he left in a pitiful case : Suppose in a like case , if a Lad , can get him a provident wife , His fortune can never be bad , he is made all the days of his life . But chiefly , etc But if that dame fortune do frown , that dis wife and he cannot agree , He is for ever cast down , by woeful experience you see ; Thus noble youngmen adieu , remember the words which I [ say ] , This song's like to prove to be true then by it and bear it away : But chiefly I wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that can cousin and swear , can also desemble and lie . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , on Saffron - hill , near Hatton-garden . 