Good Sport for Protestants ; In a most pleasant Dialogue Between and Old Bawdy Priest , and a wanton young Nun. To the Tune of , The English Travelers . P. COme hither my Daughter , come hither I pray , I swear I'll embrace you , then do not say nay , I love , I adore thee , I hold thee most dear , Then let me enjoy thee , there's no body near . I cannot contain my Passion's so strong , And I have concealed it from the too long . Some comfort , or else I shall surely die Dear Betty , I entreat thee , Oh! do not deny . N. O Father you amaze me , what is it you'd do ? Or what is the cause you thus earnestly woe ? For what do you love me , and why do you pray ? Or to what Request must I not say nay ? Explain your dark meaning , your Passion declare , Your great desires make known what they are And I shall be ready to grant your request , To serve and obey you , as you shall think best . P. You know that the Convent in sleep are all dead , Then let us together go quickly to Bed ; There's none shall discover , there's none can espy Dear Betty , I entreat thee , Oh! do not deny . N. O Heavens ! what Frenzy has entered your Brains ? Or what is the cause you cannot contain ? Oh! Why would you force me ? you are to be blamed ; Why should I commit such a since to be damned ? P. The Act I believe to be no since at all ; Or if it is any , it is wondrous small ; I can forgive you , my Power is high , Dear Betty , I entreat you , Oh! Do not deny . N. I fear it's a since , I dare not offend ; Beside it will turn to disgrace in the end : I understand not , what Love Dalliances are , Therefore , Holy Father , you Courtship forbear . P. Thou needest not fear no disgrace , I do say You in duty are bound , my Commands to obey ; In my folded Arms all in night thou shalt lie Dear Betty , I entreat thee , Oh! do not deny . N. Your lawful Commands , I ought to obey ; But what is unlawful , I ought to gainsay : Therefore I dare not grant what you require , Stand off , and be quiet , I humbly desire . P. I'll give thee ten Guineas , a Watch and a Ring , I'll always befriend thee in every thing , And Pardon thy Sins when thou comest to die , Dear Betty , I entreat thee , Oh! do not deny . N. But if it should prove , the disgrace would be great , I should be the Object of all Peoples hate ; My Friends would forsake me , my Foes would deride With the trouble , the care , and the sorrow beside . P. Shued you prove with child , you may murder the brat With a Dose of the Doctor , next door to the Cat ; If you do not love me , I swear I shall die ; Therefore my dear Betty , Oh! do not deny . N. I yield to your Will , and obey your Command , Your words do bewitch me , I cannot withstand ; You force me with Reasons , I yield to your Will , I will be most Obedient and Dutiful still . P. To Bed then with speed , dear Betty let's haste Swift time flies away , and insensibly wasts ; We'll put out the Candle , that none may espy , None shall be so happy as Betty and I . Let Fools and Madmen , go bawling to Mass , We'll not let a good opportunity pass ; With Kissing and Clipping , we'll make the time fly , And none be so happy as Betty and I. N. Then put out the Candle , it gives too much light , And let us be silent and still as the Night ; Dark Deeds should be always done in a dark place , lest the Wicked espy , and we come to disgrace . P. Oh! now's the blessed time , my Planets grow kind , The Saints are a sleeping , and Justice is blind , We both shall be happy if none do espy The Love and Embraces of Betty and I. London , Printed and Sold by J. Wallis in White-Friars . Good Sport for Protestants ; In a most pleasant Dialogue Between and Old Bawdy Priest , and a wanton young Nun. To the Tune of , The English Travelers . P. COme hither my Daughter , come hither I pray , I swear I'll embrace you , then do not say nay , I love , I adore thee , I hold thee most dear , Then let me enjoy thee , there's no body near . I cannot contain my Passion's so strong , And I have concealed it from the too long . Some comfort , or else I shall surely die Dear Betty , I entreat thee , Oh! do not deny . N. O Father you amaze me , what is it you'd do ? Or what is the cause you thus earnestly woe ? For what do you love me , and why do you pray ? Or to what Request must I not say nay ? Explain your dark meaning , your Passion declare , Your great desires make known what they are And I shall be ready to grant your request , To serve and obey you , as you shall think best . P. You know that the Convent in sleep are all dead , Then let us together go quickly to Bed ; There's none shall discover , there's none can espy Dear Betty , I entreat thee , Oh! do not deny . N. O Heavens ! what Frenzy has entered your Brains ? Or what is the cause you cannot contain ? Oh! Why would you force me ? you are to be blamed ; Why should I commit such a since to be damned ? P. The Act I believe to be no since at all ; Or if it is any , it is wondrous small ; I can forgive you , my Power is high , Dear Betty , I entreat you , Oh! Do not deny . N. I fear it's a since , I dare not offend ; Beside it will turn to disgrace in the end : I understand not , what Love Dalliances are , Therefore , Holy Father , you Courtship forbear . P. Thou needest not fear no disgrace , I do say You in duty are bound , my Commands to obey ; In my folded Arms all in night thou shalt lie Dear Betty , I entreat thee , Oh! do not deny . N. Your lawful Commands , I ought to obey ; But what is unlawful , I ought to gainsay : Therefore I dare not grant what you require , Stand off , and be quiet , I humbly desire . P. I'll give thee ten Guineas , a Watch and a Ring , I'll always befriend thee in every thing , And Pardon thy Sins when thou comest to die , Dear Betty , I entreat thee , Oh! do not deny . N. But if it should prove , the disgrace would be great , I should be the Object of all Peoples hate ; My Friends would forsake me , my Foes would deride With the trouble , the care , and the sorrow beside . P. Shued you prove with child , you may murder the brat With a Dose of the Doctor , next door to the Cat ; If you do not love me , I swear I shall die ; Therefore my dear Betty , Oh! do not deny . N. I yield to your Will , and obey your Command , Your words do bewitch me , I cannot withstand ; You force me with Reasons , I yield to your Will , I will be most Obedient and Dutiful still . P. To Bed then with speed , dear Betty let's haste Swift time flies away , and insensibly wasts ; We'll put out the Candle , that none may espy , None shall be so happy as Betty and I . Let Fools and Madmen , go bawling to Mass , We'll not let a good opportunity pass ; With Kissing and Clipping , we'll make the time fly , And none be so happy as Betty and I. N. Then put out the Candle , it gives too much light , And let us be silent and still as the Night ; Dark Deeds should be always done in a dark place , lest the Wicked espy , and we come to disgrace . P. Oh! now's the blessed time , my Planets grow kind , The Saints are a sleeping , and Justice is blind , We both shall be happy if none do espy The Love and Embraces of Betty and I. London , Printed and Sold by J. Wallis in White-Friars . 