THE Lusty Fryer of Flanders ; How in a Nunnery at the City of Gaunt this Fryer god Thirty Nuns with Child in three Weeks time , and afterwards made his escape . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw N Ot long ago from hence I went , to travel into Flanders , To learn the Art of War , was sent under those great Commanders ; At Gaunt I saw a pleasant fun , as you shall hear hereafter , Betwixt a Friar and a Nun , may well deserve your laughter . The Fryer like a Jolly Dad , a propagating Father , Hid not the Talon which he had , but chosen to use it rather : The Nun was pretty , young , and fair , as if designed for pleasure , And pity 'twas that she should swear , to keep her Virgin treasure . Unto this Lusty Fryer she went , and there her sins confessed , Which he , unto her hearts content , forgave and her released ; But this he said , before you rise , for all your sad offences , By good St. Francis , i'll Chastise with Rods your Preter Tenses . Her hinder Quarters up she turns , and there she lay most fairly , The Friar now in Lust he burns , and flauged her off most rarely : Her prayers and tears at last prevail upon the cruel Friar , That he'd no more correct her tail , nor would he now deny her . TO how pretty Nymph arise he said , and let me now embrace thee , Bestow on me your Maidenhead , fear not that i'll disgrace thee ; What though my Robe be black my dear , my skins as white as may be , And I have that has pleased i'll swear , o many a gallant Lady . TO he Charming Nun then blushing said , o tempt me not to evil , Have I not vowed to live a Maid , and to renounce the Devil , But should I now commit this Crime , and break my vow by sporting , My belly will grow big in time , and then you'll leave your Courting . TO he since , my Dear , is Venial . and to indulge is easy , since on and i'll forgive you all , my Love , if you'll but please me ; B ut since you fear to breed young bones , i'll tell you for their Glory , TO he Lady Abbess and her Nuns , have done the like before you . TO his Nun o she grew big at last , and daily it increases , And ever ten months were fully passed , the N uns fell all to pieces ; TO he crafty Fryer away he went , that should scape 'twas pity , And left behind a Regiment of bastards to the City . TO hus he this Creature did beguile , but tell me waned he dirty , TO wenty nine N uns he'd god with Child , and this made up the thirty : He had a faculty to Cure , each longing expectation . So this religious Rascal sure , is able to stock a nation . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , 1688. THE Lusty Fryer of Flanders ; How in a Nunnery at the City of Gaunt this Fryer god Thirty Nuns with Child in three Weeks time , and afterwards made his escape . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw N Ot long ago from hence I went , to travel into Flanders , To learn the Art of War , was sent under those great Commanders ; At Gaunt I saw a pleasant fun , as you shall hear hereafter , Betwixt a Friar and a Nun , may well deserve your laughter . The Fryer like a Jolly Dad , a propagating Father , Hid not the Talon which he had , but chosen to use it rather : The Nun was pretty , young , and fair , as if designed for pleasure , And pity 'twas that she should swear , to keep her Virgin treasure . Unto this Lusty Fryer she went , and there her sins confessed , Which he , unto her hearts content , forgave and her released ; But this he said , before you rise , for all your sad offences , By good St. Francis , i'll Chastise with Rods your Preter Tenses . Her hinder Quarters up she turns , and there she lay most fairly , The Friar now in Lust he burns , and flauged her off most rarely : Her prayers and tears at last prevail upon the cruel Friar , That he'd no more correct her tail , nor would he now deny her . TO how pretty Nymph arise he said , and let me now embrace thee , Bestow on me your Maidenhead , fear not that i'll disgrace thee ; What though my Robe be black my dear , my skins as white as may be , And I have that has pleased i'll swear , o many a gallant Lady . TO he Charming Nun then blushing said , o tempt me not to evil , Have I not vowed to live a Maid , and to renounce the Devil , But should I now commit this Crime , and break my vow by sporting , My belly will grow big in time , and then you'll leave your Courting . TO he since , my Dear , is Venial . and to indulge is easy , since on and i'll forgive you all , my Love , if you'll but please me ; B ut since you fear to breed young bones , i'll tell you for their Glory , TO he Lady Abbess and her Nuns , have done the like before you . TO his Nun o she grew big at last , and daily it increases , And ever ten months were fully passed , the N uns fell all to pieces ; TO he crafty Fryer away he went , that should scape 'twas pity , And left behind a Regiment of bastards to the City . TO hus he this Creature did beguile , but tell me waned he dirty , TO wenty nine N uns he'd god with Child , and this made up the thirty : He had a faculty to Cure , each longing expectation . So this religious Rascal sure , is able to stock a nation . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , 1688. 