The Longing Shepherdess : OR , LADY lie near me . To the Tune of , Lady lie near me : or , The Green Garter . A LL in the Month of May , when all things blossom , As in my bed I lay sleep it grew Loathsome : Up I Rose and did walk over yond Mountains , Through Mountains & amp ; through Dales over Rocks and Fountains , I herd a voice to say , Sweetheart come cheer me , Thou hast been long away , Lady lie near me . Down by yond River side , and surging billows , A pleasant Grove I spied , will set with willows : In it a Shepherdess singing most clearly , And still her note it was , Lady lie near me . Come away do not stay , etc Sweetheart thou stayst too long Phebus is watching , Aurora with her steed , is fast approaching : She does her chariot mount which much do fear me , Each hour a year I count till you lie near me : Come away do not stay sweat-heart and cheer me , Thou hast been long away , Lady lie near me . Hymen keeps holy day Love take thy pleasure , Cupid hath thrown away his Bow and Quiver : B [ oh ] reas does gently blow lest I should fear him , Yet dare I not stay alone to hear him . Come away , etc . WORSER Id not Adonis like sweetheart fly from me , For careful I will be as does become me . Both of my flock and thine while they are feeding , Dear is my love to thee , as is exceeding , Come away , etc I may sing welladay my joys are ended , The hour of my approach is almost spended : My Parents will me miss , and Swains will jeer me , Thus still her note it was , Lady lie near me : Come away , etc She had no sooner spoke but her true Lover , Near to her did approach her grief to smother : Hearing thy moan my sweet , I came to cheer thee , And will before I part , dearest lie near thee : Be not sad , I am glad that I did hear thee , And what as can he had thouse hay to cheer thee . No cost that I will spare , for to content thee , Junkets the best that are , they shall be sent thee , The chiefest I can get , and best Canary , Then do not sweetheart fit so solitary , Be not sad , etc I hate to bear the mind of a base peasant , Thou still shalt find me kind , Partridge and Pheasant , Butchers meat is but gross , fair that is dainty , For thee my loving Lass , we will have plenty , Be not sad , etc Adonis like to prove that were so cruel . To one so dear I love , the Richest jewel : I do not estimate like thee my sweating , I in my heart will hate for to be fleeting , Be not sad , etc The time we'll pass away Histories Reading , While our flock day by day , gently are feeding : And on my Oaten Reed Love to Requite thee , Care away I will play for to delight thee . Be not sad , etc The birds with their sweet notes cheerfully singing , Also will thee delight , contentment bringing : Whose pleasant Harmony from them Resounding , Still will delightful be , most sweetly sounding . Be not sad , etc Though I my self am absent , and sometime leave thee , To work thy discontent let nothing Grieve thee , But merry be sweetheart till my Returning , Alone my dear thou art then cease thy mourning : For I will still be kind always to cheer thee , And so to ease thy mind , I will be near thee , FINIS . R.G. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Longing Shepherdess : OR , LADY lie near me . To the Tune of , Lady lie near me : or , The Green Garter . A LL in the Month of May , when all things blossom , As in my bed I lay sleep it grew Loathsome : Up I Rose and did walk over yond Mountains , Through Mountains & amp ; through Dales over Rocks and Fountains , I herd a voice to say , Sweetheart come cheer me , Thou hast been long away , Lady lie near me . Down by yond River side , and surging billows , A pleasant Grove I spied , will set with willows : In it a Shepherdess singing most clearly , And still her note it was , Lady lie near me . Come away do not stay , etc Sweetheart thou stayst too long Phebus is watching , Aurora with her steed , is fast approaching : She does her chariot mount which much do fear me , Each hour a year I count till you lie near me : Come away do not stay sweat-heart and cheer me , Thou hast been long away , Lady lie near me . Hymen keeps holy day Love take thy pleasure , Cupid hath thrown away his Bow and Quiver : B [ oh ] reas does gently blow lest I should fear him , Yet dare I not stay alone to hear him . Come away , etc . WORSER Id not Adonis like sweetheart fly from me , For careful I will be as does become me . Both of my flock and thine while they are feeding , Dear is my love to thee , as is exceeding , Come away , etc I may sing welladay my joys are ended , The hour of my approach is almost spended : My Parents will me miss , and Swains will jeer me , Thus still her note it was , Lady lie near me : Come away , etc She had no sooner spoke but her true Lover , Near to her did approach her grief to smother : Hearing thy moan my sweet , I came to cheer thee , And will before I part , dearest lie near thee : Be not sad , I am glad that I did hear thee , And what as can he had thouse hay to cheer thee . No cost that I will spare , for to content thee , Junkets the best that are , they shall be sent thee , The chiefest I can get , and best Canary , Then do not sweetheart fit so solitary , Be not sad , etc I hate to bear the mind of a base peasant , Thou still shalt find me kind , Partridge and Pheasant , Butchers meat is but gross , fair that is dainty , For thee my loving Lass , we will have plenty , Be not sad , etc Adonis like to prove that were so cruel . To one so dear I love , the Richest jewel : I do not estimate like thee my sweating , I in my heart will hate for to be fleeting , Be not sad , etc The time we'll pass away Histories Reading , While our flock day by day , gently are feeding : And on my Oaten Reed Love to Requite thee , Care away I will play for to delight thee . Be not sad , etc The birds with their sweet notes cheerfully singing , Also will thee delight , contentment bringing : Whose pleasant Harmony from them Resounding , Still will delightful be , most sweetly sounding . Be not sad , etc Though I my self am absent , and sometime leave thee , To work thy discontent let nothing Grieve thee , But merry be sweetheart till my Returning , Alone my dear thou art then cease thy mourning : For I will still be kind always to cheer thee , And so to ease thy mind , I will be near thee , FINIS . R.G. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 