The Seamans sorrowful Bride : S ee here the constant M ournful Bride , In sorrow does complain : For fear her joy and hearts delight , Should never return again . Tune of , Ah! Jenny Gin . M Y Love is on the brackish Sea , and I am on this side . Twould break a poor young creatures heart , that lately was a Bride , That lately was a joyful Bride , so pleasant to the Eye , But Hollands Land , does me withstand , and part my Love and I . The Love that I in heart have chosen , I therewith am content , Thy floating Sea shall drred be , before I will repent : But cruel fate my joys arrest , it cannot helped be , While I do cry , most mournfully , fate parts my Love and me . O gentle Neptune be so kind , to send him back again , He never will be out of my mind ; that now hath crossed the Main , O hapless Bride so soon to lose the pleasure of thine eye , But rigid fate , my bliss does hate , and parts my love and I . No sleep shall give my troubled mind , a comfortable hour , For while my love is on the Main : fears do my joys devour , And e'ry blast that blows a fear , my Love should drowned lie , But it's a grief beyond relief , so Love for thee i'll die . Oh! cruel Fate , too much unkind , why dost thou serve me so ? Give ease to my distressed mind , and banish all my woe : For I shall never be at rest , till I my Love do see , Then [ by ] tte [ r ] wind , be sure be kind , never part my Love from me . You sturdy Rocks be sure give way , and let my Love sail by , For if he should be made your Prey , in what a case were I ; Or if the Waves should cruel prove , which I never thought to spy , I should be lost , and strangely crossed , to part my Love and I . Blow wind and send a happy Gale , that he may home return , If thou but fill his prosperous Sail I need no longer mourn : My happiness will be complete , when him I chance to see , Now I lament , in discontent , since Fate parts him and me . You powerful Stars that Mortals rule , mind but my sad complaint , And send me home my Love again , that now am like to faint : I sighs , I pant , I waste away , no pleasures can I see , Since my delight is out of sighed , and [ Fate ] parts him and m [ e . ] Now must I blame the cruel wind that sent my love away , Oh fates , why were you so unkind , as not to let him stay : Just in the Bud of all my joys , could you so cruel be , To banish hence , my Love , my Prince and parts my love and me . It is in vain to sighs and mourn , unhappy then am I , Or now because I am forlorn , must I in sorrow die ? No , no , I hope there's joys in store , that I may live to see , Though now oppressed , I may be blessed , Heavens bless my Love and me . The Seaman's A nswer . L Eave off thy tears my only joy , since I am safe arrived : Let not this grief my Love destre [ ss , ] nor be of hope's deprived ; For i'll embrace thee in my arms and fill thee with such bliss , That Venus with her dallying charms , envies our happiness . Though I upon the Seas was tossed , when absent from my dear , Fearing each moment to be lost , yet this my comfort were ? That I should safe again return , which now I find is true ; And since I in loves passion burn , I bid the Seas adieu . Now we will revel day and night , within each others Arms , In thee shall be my chief delight , i'll shield thee from all harms ; Kindly thy Body i'll embrace , and ever constant be No other joys shall ever take place , i'll live and die with thee . The Seamans sorrowful Bride : S ee here the constant M ournful Bride , In sorrow does complain : For fear her joy and hearts delight , Should never return again . Tune of , Ah! Jenny Gin . M Y Love is on the brackish Sea , and I am on this side . Twould break a poor young creatures heart , that lately was a Bride , That lately was a joyful Bride , so pleasant to the Eye , But Hollands Land , does me withstand , and part my Love and I . The Love that I in heart have chosen , I therewith am content , Thy floating Sea shall drred be , before I will repent : But cruel fate my joys arrest , it cannot helped be , While I do cry , most mournfully , fate parts my Love and me . O gentle Neptune be so kind , to send him back again , He never will be out of my mind ; that now hath crossed the Main , O hapless Bride so soon to lose the pleasure of thine eye , But rigid fate , my bliss does hate , and parts my love and I . No sleep shall give my troubled mind , a comfortable hour , For while my love is on the Main : fears do my joys devour , And e'ry blast that blows a fear , my Love should drowned lie , But it's a grief beyond relief , so Love for thee i'll die . Oh! cruel Fate , too much unkind , why dost thou serve me so ? Give ease to my distressed mind , and banish all my woe : For I shall never be at rest , till I my Love do see , Then [ by ] tte [ r ] wind , be sure be kind , never part my Love from me . You sturdy Rocks be sure give way , and let my Love sail by , For if he should be made your Prey , in what a case were I ; Or if the Waves should cruel prove , which I never thought to spy , I should be lost , and strangely crossed , to part my Love and I . Blow wind and send a happy Gale , that he may home return , If thou but fill his prosperous Sail I need no longer mourn : My happiness will be complete , when him I chance to see , Now I lament , in discontent , since Fate parts him and me . You powerful Stars that Mortals rule , mind but my sad complaint , And send me home my Love again , that now am like to faint : I sighs , I pant , I waste away , no pleasures can I see , Since my delight is out of sighed , and [ Fate ] parts him and m [ e . ] Now must I blame the cruel wind that sent my love away , Oh fates , why were you so unkind , as not to let him stay : Just in the Bud of all my joys , could you so cruel be , To banish hence , my Love , my Prince and parts my love and me . It is in vain to sighs and mourn , unhappy then am I , Or now because I am forlorn , must I in sorrow die ? No , no , I hope there's joys in store , that I may live to see , Though now oppressed , I may be blessed , Heavens bless my Love and me . The Seaman's A nswer . L Eave off thy tears my only joy , since I am safe arrived : Let not this grief my Love destre [ ss , ] nor be of hope's deprived ; For i'll embrace thee in my arms and fill thee with such bliss , That Venus with her dallying charms , envies our happiness . Though I upon the Seas was tossed , when absent from my dear , Fearing each moment to be lost , yet this my comfort were ? That I should safe again return , which now I find is true ; And since I in loves passion burn , I bid the Seas adieu . Now we will revel day and night , within each others Arms , In thee shall be my chief delight , i'll shield thee from all harms ; Kindly thy Body i'll embrace , and ever constant be No other joys shall ever take place , i'll live and die with thee . 