The sweet Salutation on Primrose Hill : Or , I know you not . I know you not , ---- what , does the times so Change , I knew the time we have not been so strange : But this by Maids must never be forgotten , When men Entice ; to say , ---- I know you not . To the tune of , Though Father Angry be : Or , Deep in Love . I N the pleasant month of May a young man met a Maid On Primrose Hill so gay , and thus to her he said : Fair Maid , fit down by me upon this flowery place , Fine pastime thou shalt see within a little space . Maid . Good Sir excuse me now , I cannot stay quoth she , I must go milk the Cow , my Mother will angry be , Nor can I tell forsooth what may be my lot , But this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Man. Fair Maid be not so coy , a Lesson to thee I'll play , Shall fill thy heart with joy on Primrose Hill so gay , He played her then a Note upon the Violin , He had his Lesson by rote , 'twas called , In and In. Man . But still she was in haste , and still she told him so , To give my Mother distaste I never yet will do , And still she cried forsooth I cannot tell my lot , But this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Man . You know me not quoth he , but yet in time you may , We shall acquainted be on Primrose Hill this day . But still she cried forsooth I cannot tell my lot , But this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Man . I am a Rich men Heir , and he to me will give Five hundred pound a year when no longer he can live . But still she cried forsooth I cannot tell my lot , But this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Man . I Will maintain thee so that none shall equal thee , Thou Lady like shalt go if thou wilt yield to me . But still she cried forsooth I cannot tell my lot , Yet this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Thou shalt not go on foot , but Lady like shalt ride , Thy Page fit in the Boot , my self fit by thy side . But still she cried forsooth I cannot , etc Loe thou shalt be my Bride , and all shall then be thine , If thou canst now confide and yield thy self as mine : When she herd him say so she quickly had forgotten , To answer him with no , good sir , I know you not . She unto him did yield , and he was well content Upon her ground to built , which made her to repent . Yet he did please her so that she had now . etc But at the length alas , her belly began to swell , For so it came to pass , the naked truth to tell , And when she had found it so , she said , etc H er Cow was quick with Calf and she was quick within , The wound was worse behalf then breaking of her shin . And when she had found it so , she said , etc But since she was so wild , for ought that I can gather , Since she is proved with Child , she may go look the Father . And when she found it so , she said , etc H er Mother now therefore did find the matter out , And turned her out of door with many a jear and flout . Are you my Child quoth she , alas I have forgotten , If that with Child you be , be gone : I know you not . She to her Uncle went and made the matter known , But she was soundly shent for making of her moan , Are you my Cusse quoth he , alas , etc If you stay longer here to Bridewell you shall go , And dainty whipping Cheer I will on you bestow . Are you my Cusse quoth he , alas , etc This Wench was wondrous ill , at length the man did find , Mother on Primrose Hill to whom she broke her mind : Bold Whore quoth he forbear , wilt thou mine honour blot ? I'll kick you now I swear ; be gone : I know you not . When she herd him say so , she soon did him arrest , She bent him to her bow , a dainty Primrose jest : And when she had told him so , she told him 'twas his lot , To prison he must go : be gone : I know you not . She made him promise then that he should keep the Child , Before sufficient men since that he had her beguiled : Yet she did not forget the Sport at Primrose Hill , He played her such a Fit makes her to love him still . If I might have my will , if that it proves a Boy , H is Name is Primrose Hill , his Mother's only Joy . Fair Maidens now be wise for fear this be your lot , If man do you entice , say thus : I know you not . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. WhitwoodThe sweet Salutation on Primrose Hill : Or , I know you not . I know you not , ---- what , does the times so Change , I knew the time we have not been so strange : But this by Maids must never be forgotten , When men Entice ; to say , ---- I know you not . To the tune of , Though Father Angry be : Or , Deep in Love . I N the pleasant month of May a young man met a Maid On Primrose Hill so gay , and thus to her he said : Fair Maid , fit down by me upon this flowery place , Fine pastime thou shalt see within a little space . Maid . Good Sir excuse me now , I cannot stay quoth she , I must go milk the Cow , my Mother will angry be , Nor can I tell forsooth what may be my lot , But this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Man. Fair Maid be not so coy , a Lesson to thee I'll play , Shall fill thy heart with joy on Primrose Hill so gay , He played her then a Note upon the Violin , He had his Lesson by rote , 'twas called , In and In. Man . But still she was in haste , and still she told him so , To give my Mother distaste I never yet will do , And still she cried forsooth I cannot tell my lot , But this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Man . You know me not quoth he , but yet in time you may , We shall acquainted be on Primrose Hill this day . But still she cried forsooth I cannot tell my lot , But this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Man . I am a Rich men Heir , and he to me will give Five hundred pound a year when no longer he can live . But still she cried forsooth I cannot tell my lot , But this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Man . I Will maintain thee so that none shall equal thee , Thou Lady like shalt go if thou wilt yield to me . But still she cried forsooth I cannot tell my lot , Yet this I say in truth , good sir , I know you not . Thou shalt not go on foot , but Lady like shalt ride , Thy Page fit in the Boot , my self fit by thy side . But still she cried forsooth I cannot , etc Loe thou shalt be my Bride , and all shall then be thine , If thou canst now confide and yield thy self as mine : When she herd him say so she quickly had forgotten , To answer him with no , good sir , I know you not . She unto him did yield , and he was well content Upon her ground to built , which made her to repent . Yet he did please her so that she had now . etc But at the length alas , her belly began to swell , For so it came to pass , the naked truth to tell , And when she had found it so , she said , etc H er Cow was quick with Calf and she was quick within , The wound was worse behalf then breaking of her shin . And when she had found it so , she said , etc But since she was so wild , for ought that I can gather , Since she is proved with Child , she may go look the Father . And when she found it so , she said , etc H er Mother now therefore did find the matter out , And turned her out of door with many a jear and flout . Are you my Child quoth she , alas I have forgotten , If that with Child you be , be gone : I know you not . She to her Uncle went and made the matter known , But she was soundly shent for making of her moan , Are you my Cusse quoth he , alas , etc If you stay longer here to Bridewell you shall go , And dainty whipping Cheer I will on you bestow . Are you my Cusse quoth he , alas , etc This Wench was wondrous ill , at length the man did find , Mother on Primrose Hill to whom she broke her mind : Bold Whore quoth he forbear , wilt thou mine honour blot ? I'll kick you now I swear ; be gone : I know you not . When she herd him say so , she soon did him arrest , She bent him to her bow , a dainty Primrose jest : And when she had told him so , she told him 'twas his lot , To prison he must go : be gone : I know you not . She made him promise then that he should keep the Child , Before sufficient men since that he had her beguiled : Yet she did not forget the Sport at Primrose Hill , He played her such a Fit makes her to love him still . If I might have my will , if that it proves a Boy , H is Name is Primrose Hill , his Mother's only Joy . Fair Maidens now be wise for fear this be your lot , If man do you entice , say thus : I know you not . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood 