The Shepherd's Delight . Both by Day and by Night . Describing the Shepherd's simplicity ; And their Felicity : their birth , and their mirth : their lives , and their wives : their health and their wealth : their ways , and their plays : their diet , and quiet . And how with their Damsels they laugh and lie down , And to each pretty Virgin , they give a green gown . TO oh a delightful tune Sung at the Dukes Playhouse to the King , and all the Nobility : Or , Now the Tyrant has stol [ n ] my dearest away , etc W Hat and innocent loving life Shepherd's do led , In Grove , Field , and Forest , on Mountain and Mead : Although our low Cottages are thatch [ e ] worser above , Our hearts are well filled with joys of Love . With our Shepherdesses we laugh and lie down , And to each pretty Damosel we give a green gown . In courting , and sporting we spend all the day , We fear not , nor care not , how time runs away ; And yet we can tell you how nigh it's to Noon , Or Evening , if we do but gaze on the Sun : But every night we do laugh and lie down , And to each pretty Lass we give a green Gown . We live as instructed , by father and mother , Who teach us what we should do to one another : From Frighting with Fighting we care not a Flay , Our innocence is like a Navy at Sea , Which makes us so jocondly laugh and lie down , and to each fair Female we give a green gown . The second part , to the same tune . W E feel not the cares which attend upon crowns ; Live free from the fears of great cities and towns ; We fight not for honour with Sword , Pike , and Buff , We all are contented , and that's wealth enough , Not crafty , with a fafty , we laugh and lie down , and think it no treason to give a green Gown . Thus all our life long we are frolic and gay , And instead of Court Rebels we merrily play . At Trap , and at Keel , and at Barleibreak run , At Golf , and at Football , and when we have done , These innocent sports , we do laugh and lie down ; and to each pretty Lass , etc We teach our little Dogs to fetch and to carry , The Patridge , the Hare , and the Phesant's our Quarry , The nimble Squirrels , with Cudgels we Chase ; And the little pretty Lark , we betray with a glass : and when we have done so , we laugh , etc About the Maypole we dance all around , And with Garlands of Pinks , and of Roses are crowned , Our little kind tributes we cheerfully pay , To the gay Lord , and the bright Lady of May , And when we have done so we laugh and lie down ; And to each pretty Lass do we give a green grown . With our delicate Nymphs we kiss and we toy ; What others but dream of , we daily enjoy : With our sweethearts we dally so long till we find ; Their pretty eyes say that their hearts are grown kind , and when we have done so , etc To make men revive with singing and dances , There's no flesh alive like Fedilia and Francis , At trap-ball , and stoolball Rebecca and Rachel ; Saphania does stoop well , and Katey can catch well ; They trip it , and lip it , and laugh and lie down , and freely accept of a Lovers green gown . With wild Curds and Custards , with Cheesecakes and Pies , With Sider and Sugar , Cream and Stawberries , Green Tanseys and White-pots , with Fish , Fowl , and Beasts , Our table is spread at a Sheepshearing Feast . And when we are filled we laugh and lie down : Embrace one another , and give a green Gown . With Bagpipes and taber , and Hoby sometime , We dance and skip and sing , and our natural Rhymes ; Two Jews-trumps well played on , with Violin soft , Makes spirits to rise , and our bloods mount aloft . And when they are up , and our Lasses lie down ; Each Shepherd turns TO aylor , and gives a green gown . We multiply not with unnatural cheats , Nor Kiss by the strength of provocative meats : Our lively plump issue that springs from our beds , Are fat , fair , and clear , like young Cherubims heads . For which we do nothing , but kiss and lie down ; Sometime a great belly comes by a green gown . This is the true trade that each good Shepherd drives , We none of us mingle with other men's Wives : Our rules of propriety is so well known , That every man is content with his own . Though merrily , yet lawfully , etc He that begets Boys abroad , at home begets strife , And sometime can never get and heir by his Wife : We therefore in loyalty do led our lives , Are just to our friends , and as true to our Wives . Although we do merrily kiss and lie down , Young men to their sweethearts may give a green gown . And thus have I given you a taste of our lives , Our breeding , our feeding , our sports , and our wives : Our innocency , honesty , music , and mirth , That waits upon us , from the day of our birth : I f any maid here would fain laugh and lie down , Let her go among Shepherd's , and get a green gown . Printed for F. Coals , TO . Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Shepherd's Delight . Both by Day and by Night . Describing the Shepherd's simplicity ; And their Felicity : their birth , and their mirth : their lives , and their wives : their health and their wealth : their ways , and their plays : their diet , and quiet . And how with their Damsels they laugh and lie down , And to each pretty Virgin , they give a green gown . TO oh a delightful tune Sung at the Dukes Playhouse to the King , and all the Nobility : Or , Now the Tyrant has stol [ n ] my dearest away , etc W Hat and innocent loving life Shepherd's do led , In Grove , Field , and Forest , on Mountain and Mead : Although our low Cottages are thatch [ e ] worser above , Our hearts are well filled with joys of Love . With our Shepherdesses we laugh and lie down , And to each pretty Damosel we give a green gown . In courting , and sporting we spend all the day , We fear not , nor care not , how time runs away ; And yet we can tell you how nigh it's to Noon , Or Evening , if we do but gaze on the Sun : But every night we do laugh and lie down , And to each pretty Lass we give a green Gown . We live as instructed , by father and mother , Who teach us what we should do to one another : From Frighting with Fighting we care not a Flay , Our innocence is like a Navy at Sea , Which makes us so jocondly laugh and lie down , and to each fair Female we give a green gown . The second part , to the same tune . W E feel not the cares which attend upon crowns ; Live free from the fears of great cities and towns ; We fight not for honour with Sword , Pike , and Buff , We all are contented , and that's wealth enough , Not crafty , with a fafty , we laugh and lie down , and think it no treason to give a green Gown . Thus all our life long we are frolic and gay , And instead of Court Rebels we merrily play . At Trap , and at Keel , and at Barleibreak run , At Golf , and at Football , and when we have done , These innocent sports , we do laugh and lie down ; and to each pretty Lass , etc We teach our little Dogs to fetch and to carry , The Patridge , the Hare , and the Phesant's our Quarry , The nimble Squirrels , with Cudgels we Chase ; And the little pretty Lark , we betray with a glass : and when we have done so , we laugh , etc About the Maypole we dance all around , And with Garlands of Pinks , and of Roses are crowned , Our little kind tributes we cheerfully pay , To the gay Lord , and the bright Lady of May , And when we have done so we laugh and lie down ; And to each pretty Lass do we give a green grown . With our delicate Nymphs we kiss and we toy ; What others but dream of , we daily enjoy : With our sweethearts we dally so long till we find ; Their pretty eyes say that their hearts are grown kind , and when we have done so , etc To make men revive with singing and dances , There's no flesh alive like Fedilia and Francis , At trap-ball , and stoolball Rebecca and Rachel ; Saphania does stoop well , and Katey can catch well ; They trip it , and lip it , and laugh and lie down , and freely accept of a Lovers green gown . With wild Curds and Custards , with Cheesecakes and Pies , With Sider and Sugar , Cream and Stawberries , Green Tanseys and White-pots , with Fish , Fowl , and Beasts , Our table is spread at a Sheepshearing Feast . And when we are filled we laugh and lie down : Embrace one another , and give a green Gown . With Bagpipes and taber , and Hoby sometime , We dance and skip and sing , and our natural Rhymes ; Two Jews-trumps well played on , with Violin soft , Makes spirits to rise , and our bloods mount aloft . And when they are up , and our Lasses lie down ; Each Shepherd turns TO aylor , and gives a green gown . We multiply not with unnatural cheats , Nor Kiss by the strength of provocative meats : Our lively plump issue that springs from our beds , Are fat , fair , and clear , like young Cherubims heads . For which we do nothing , but kiss and lie down ; Sometime a great belly comes by a green gown . This is the true trade that each good Shepherd drives , We none of us mingle with other men's Wives : Our rules of propriety is so well known , That every man is content with his own . Though merrily , yet lawfully , etc He that begets Boys abroad , at home begets strife , And sometime can never get and heir by his Wife : We therefore in loyalty do led our lives , Are just to our friends , and as true to our Wives . Although we do merrily kiss and lie down , Young men to their sweethearts may give a green gown . And thus have I given you a taste of our lives , Our breeding , our feeding , our sports , and our wives : Our innocency , honesty , music , and mirth , That waits upon us , from the day of our birth : I f any maid here would fain laugh and lie down , Let her go among Shepherd's , and get a green gown . Printed for F. Coals , TO . Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 