THE Maulsters Daughter of Malborough : CONTAINING A pleasant Discourse between her Mother and she , ABOUT The weary Burden of a troublesome Maidenhead : Con - cluding with the Mother's Consent to the Daughter's Satisfaction . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . MOther let me Marry , I long to be a Bride , And have a lusty young Man to dally by my side , For I think it is well known , that I am a Woman grown , Therefore it's pity one so pretty ever should lie alone ; Do not deny me therefore I pray , Consider I am young and may chance to go a stray ; My Maiden head , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with Care , The Burden , Burden , o ! the Burthen's more then I can bear . Why art thou so eager to be a married Wife . The greastest joy and pleasure is in a single Life ; Daughter , now you live at ease , and can ramble where you please , But if you Marry , you must tarry , Sorrows will you seize , Housekeeping's chargeable , my dear Child , But Nanny she replied , Mother I am almost wild ; My Maidenhead , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with Care , The Burden , Burden , o ! the Burthen's more then I can bear . Am I not a Beauty , and in my blooming Prime , Then let me have a Husband , for sum [ r ] e it is high time ; Let me have my Heart's delight , though I labout day and night , It would be pleasure out of measure , Mother , if I might Have all the Riches that ever I saw , Without a loving Man I'ld not valve of a straw , My Maidenhead , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with Care , The Burden , Burden , etc Daughter don't provoke me , but hold your idle Tongue , And talk no more of Man , you are seven Years to young . Mother , pray what do you mean ? am I not above fifteen ? Let Gallants try me , don't deny me , thousands I have seen Who has been Married before my Age , And if I longer stay , you'll put me in a rage , My Maidenhead , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with Care , The Burden , Burden , etc Daughter I was nineteen before I ever did wed , Yet was not overburdened with my dear Maidenhead . Loving Mother that may be , but it's otherwise with me That's brisk and airy , therefore weary of Virginity , Cupid has gave me a fatal Wound , Therefore a Man I'll have if he be above the Ground , My Maidenhead , etc The Burden , Burden , etc If you are so pompered , I'll pull your courage down By hard and painful labour , strip off your silken gown , With your Toppings rich and gay , to the Field this very day I'll send you packing , clothed in Sacking , then perhaps you may Leave off your longing for a young Man. No , no , I never shall , then replied her Daughter Nan , My Maidenhead , etc The Burden , Burden , etc Mother , if you send me to labour in the Field , Young Bachelors will tempt me , and I perhaps may yield To the thing I will not name , therefore never lay the blame Upon your Daughter , if hereafter I should play the Game ; For I am certain it will be so , A Man I needs must have whither Mother will or no , My Maidenhead , etc The Burden , etc If you are resolved to play at Hoopers-hide , There's honest Frank the Farmer for you I will provide , He is lusty , tall and trim , and has Courage to the brim , I thank you , Mother , there's no other that I love like him ; Now for the Torment which I endure , I make no other doubt but to have a speedy Cure , My Maidenhead , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with care , Now , not much longer , not much longer I'll that Burden bear . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass , on London-bridge . THE Maulsters Daughter of Malborough : CONTAINING A pleasant Discourse between her Mother and she , ABOUT The weary Burden of a troublesome Maidenhead : Con - cluding with the Mother's Consent to the Daughter's Satisfaction . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . MOther let me Marry , I long to be a Bride , And have a lusty young Man to dally by my side , For I think it is well known , that I am a Woman grown , Therefore it's pity one so pretty ever should lie alone ; Do not deny me therefore I pray , Consider I am young and may chance to go a stray ; My Maiden head , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with Care , The Burden , Burden , o ! the Burthen's more then I can bear . Why art thou so eager to be a married Wife . The greastest joy and pleasure is in a single Life ; Daughter , now you live at ease , and can ramble where you please , But if you Marry , you must tarry , Sorrows will you seize , Housekeeping's chargeable , my dear Child , But Nanny she replied , Mother I am almost wild ; My Maidenhead , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with Care , The Burden , Burden , o ! the Burthen's more then I can bear . Am I not a Beauty , and in my blooming Prime , Then let me have a Husband , for sum [ r ] e it is high time ; Let me have my Heart's delight , though I labout day and night , It would be pleasure out of measure , Mother , if I might Have all the Riches that ever I saw , Without a loving Man I'ld not valve of a straw , My Maidenhead , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with Care , The Burden , Burden , etc Daughter don't provoke me , but hold your idle Tongue , And talk no more of Man , you are seven Years to young . Mother , pray what do you mean ? am I not above fifteen ? Let Gallants try me , don't deny me , thousands I have seen Who has been Married before my Age , And if I longer stay , you'll put me in a rage , My Maidenhead , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with Care , The Burden , Burden , etc Daughter I was nineteen before I ever did wed , Yet was not overburdened with my dear Maidenhead . Loving Mother that may be , but it's otherwise with me That's brisk and airy , therefore weary of Virginity , Cupid has gave me a fatal Wound , Therefore a Man I'll have if he be above the Ground , My Maidenhead , etc The Burden , Burden , etc If you are so pompered , I'll pull your courage down By hard and painful labour , strip off your silken gown , With your Toppings rich and gay , to the Field this very day I'll send you packing , clothed in Sacking , then perhaps you may Leave off your longing for a young Man. No , no , I never shall , then replied her Daughter Nan , My Maidenhead , etc The Burden , Burden , etc Mother , if you send me to labour in the Field , Young Bachelors will tempt me , and I perhaps may yield To the thing I will not name , therefore never lay the blame Upon your Daughter , if hereafter I should play the Game ; For I am certain it will be so , A Man I needs must have whither Mother will or no , My Maidenhead , etc The Burden , etc If you are resolved to play at Hoopers-hide , There's honest Frank the Farmer for you I will provide , He is lusty , tall and trim , and has Courage to the brim , I thank you , Mother , there's no other that I love like him ; Now for the Torment which I endure , I make no other doubt but to have a speedy Cure , My Maidenhead , I'll swear , does fill my Heart with care , Now , not much longer , not much longer I'll that Burden bear . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass , on London-bridge . 