[ Counting it ? ] And shed the Blood of those , that dare deny Their Superstitious gross Idolatry : No Tongue , or Pen , is able to express The height of their Revengeful Wickedness . Let us consider with our selves , I pray , What kind of Zealous , Pious Men are they , Who can Resolve , and freely Undertake , To Murder PRINCES for Religions sake ! Are they not Scarlet Saints , that would Reform , And Regulate [ the Church ] though with a Storm Of Sword and Fire ; such like Cruelties ? Sure this can be no pleasing Sacrifice To GOD , the great Creator of Mankind ; And therefore all our daring Foes shall find , That He will still his Righteous Church defend ; And bring the Traitors to a shameful end : Some we have seen , and read of many more , That suffered for their Treasons , long before The Powder-Plot , when Brittains Maiden Queen Was in her Royal Splendid Glory seen ; Elizabeth of Blessed Memory ; But Rome beheld her with and envious eye ; Striving , by Treasons , daily to destroy Her Majesty , the Church , and Kingdoms Joy . [ A ] Priest from Spain was sent to do that Work , Who , with some others , near the Court did lurk ; Having received a Consecrated Dart , With which they were to wound her to the heart , When ever they should find her Riding out ; Yet ever that Treason could be brought about , They were discovered , and to Justice brought ; Which base Attempt their own Destruction wrought . Rebellious Subject's , Jesuites likewise , Resolved that he should fallen a Sacrifice To their Malicious Rage ; but GOD above , Did from the King that Dreadful Storm remove . Some of the Traitors Executed were , The rest his Majesty was pleased to spare Of his dear Clemency : Yet ne'ertheless , Rome could not yet forbear , but must Transgress . A Dreadful Plot at length they did invent , To blow up both the King and Parliament , And the young Prince ; thus root and branch they thought Should be at once to Dismal Ruin brought : Whose Royal Limbs they did resolve to tear , And rend to pieces all that present were , With King , Dukes , Lords , and Commons of the Land , Behold the Dreadful Minute was at hand . When GOD , by His good Providence Divine , Made known that Hellish Plot and base Design , Though for the same they were Examples made , Yet Rome will not forsake her Plotting Trade . Many more Treasons I might mention here , But to be short , Romes Prince and Darling Dear , By their misguidance lost his Realms of late : This shows , whom they'll not kill , they'll ruinate . When , Locust like , they swarmed about the Throne , In Court , and through the Realm ; it is well known , The very best of Men they Villifyed , Who dared not speak because their tongues were tied . When Mourning SION unregarded lay ; And when her Pious Sons were packed away ( Like Malefactors ) to a lonesome Goal ; When Jesuites had power to prevail ; With thankful hearts let us this Blessing over That GOD has placed on the Imperial throne A Pious Prince , who does our Rights maintain : Why should we wish for Slavery again ? Yet so it is , such restless souls we have , Who sent to France , and earnestly did crave , That Lewis he would send and Armed Band , With Sword and Fire to Invade this Land. Beside , they had resolved to Kill the King , Against the very time that France should bring Their Popish Army to the British shore , And they would join them with some Thousands more . Lewis immediately in Councils sits , Assisted by the Pope and Jesuites ; Where after some Debate it was agreed , To prosecute this great Design with speed . The two entire Friends was parting then , With many Protestations made , that when The Work was done , Millions of Gold he'd send To Lewis , who had been so long his Friend . Resolved they were to Conquer by the Sword ; But when the Troops they were to go on Board , The Plot broke out , on which they most relied ; And then the great Design was laid aside . Some Knights that did this Hellish Plot invent , Have now received Deserved Punishment ; Then let their Fatal Death's a warning be To Subject's , both of high and low degree . Those that will Plot against our Church and State , Hoping thereby to make their Fortune's great , May well expect to see a shameful end ; For GOD he will his Righteous Church defend . Printed for Eben . Tracy , at the Three Bibles on London Bridge . Licensed according to Order . Note , There is lately brought from Chili , a Province in America , a most Excellent and Natural Balsam , found , by several Eminent Physicians , to be [ of ] Excellent Use , in Curing most Diseases incident to Human Bodies ; it's a Remedy that no Man under the Sun can Compose . The Merchant that has brought it over , has Entrusted it to be sold , for public good , by Eben . Tracy , Bookseller , on London Bridge , at 1 s . 6 worser . the Ounce . [ Counting it ? ] And shed the Blood of those , that dare deny Their Superstitious gross Idolatry : No Tongue , or Pen , is able to express The height of their Revengeful Wickedness . Let us consider with our selves , I pray , What kind of Zealous , Pious Men are they , Who can Resolve , and freely Undertake , To Murder PRINCES for Religions sake ! Are they not Scarlet Saints , that would Reform , And Regulate [ the Church ] though with a Storm Of Sword and Fire ; such like Cruelties ? Sure this can be no pleasing Sacrifice To GOD , the great Creator of Mankind ; And therefore all our daring Foes shall find , That He will still his Righteous Church defend ; And bring the Traitors to a shameful end : Some we have seen , and read of many more , That suffered for their Treasons , long before The Powder-Plot , when Brittains Maiden Queen Was in her Royal Splendid Glory seen ; Elizabeth of Blessed Memory ; But Rome beheld her with and envious eye ; Striving , by Treasons , daily to destroy Her Majesty , the Church , and Kingdoms Joy . [ A ] Priest from Spain was sent to do that Work , Who , with some others , near the Court did lurk ; Having received a Consecrated Dart , With which they were to wound her to the heart , When ever they should find her Riding out ; Yet ever that Treason could be brought about , They were discovered , and to Justice brought ; Which base Attempt their own Destruction wrought . Rebellious Subject's , Jesuites likewise , Resolved that he should fallen a Sacrifice To their Malicious Rage ; but GOD above , Did from the King that Dreadful Storm remove . Some of the Traitors Executed were , The rest his Majesty was pleased to spare Of his dear Clemency : Yet ne'ertheless , Rome could not yet forbear , but must Transgress . A Dreadful Plot at length they did invent , To blow up both the King and Parliament , And the young Prince ; thus root and branch they thought Should be at once to Dismal Ruin brought : Whose Royal Limbs they did resolve to tear , And rend to pieces all that present were , With King , Dukes , Lords , and Commons of the Land , Behold the Dreadful Minute was at hand . When GOD , by His good Providence Divine , Made known that Hellish Plot and base Design , Though for the same they were Examples made , Yet Rome will not forsake her Plotting Trade . Many more Treasons I might mention here , But to be short , Romes Prince and Darling Dear , By their misguidance lost his Realms of late : This shows , whom they'll not kill , they'll ruinate . When , Locust like , they swarmed about the Throne , In Court , and through the Realm ; it is well known , The very best of Men they Villifyed , Who dared not speak because their tongues were tied . When Mourning SION unregarded lay ; And when her Pious Sons were packed away ( Like Malefactors ) to a lonesome Goal ; When Jesuites had power to prevail ; With thankful hearts let us this Blessing over That GOD has placed on the Imperial throne A Pious Prince , who does our Rights maintain : Why should we wish for Slavery again ? Yet so it is , such restless souls we have , Who sent to France , and earnestly did crave , That Lewis he would send and Armed Band , With Sword and Fire to Invade this Land. Beside , they had resolved to Kill the King , Against the very time that France should bring Their Popish Army to the British shore , And they would join them with some Thousands more . Lewis immediately in Councils sits , Assisted by the Pope and Jesuites ; Where after some Debate it was agreed , To prosecute this great Design with speed . The two entire Friends was parting then , With many Protestations made , that when The Work was done , Millions of Gold he'd send To Lewis , who had been so long his Friend . Resolved they were to Conquer by the Sword ; But when the Troops they were to go on Board , The Plot broke out , on which they most relied ; And then the great Design was laid aside . Some Knights that did this Hellish Plot invent , Have now received Deserved Punishment ; Then let their Fatal Death's a warning be To Subject's , both of high and low degree . Those that will Plot against our Church and State , Hoping thereby to make their Fortune's great , May well expect to see a shameful end ; For GOD he will his Righteous Church defend . Printed for Eben . Tracy , at the Three Bibles on London Bridge . Licensed according to Order . Note , There is lately brought from Chili , a Province in America , a most Excellent and Natural Balsam , found , by several Eminent Physicians , to be [ of ] Excellent Use , in Curing most Diseases incident to Human Bodies ; it's a Remedy that no Man under the Sun can Compose . The Merchant that has brought it over , has Entrusted it to be sold , for public good , by Eben . Tracy , Bookseller , on London Bridge , at 1 s . 6 worser . the Ounce . 