The true Lovers Good-morrow . A brace of Valentines I here present , Who now together live in hearts content : These luckily did meet upon the way , In February the fourteenth day . The Tune is , As at Noon Dulcina Rested . Batchelor . I N the month of February , the green leaves begin to spring ; Pretty Lambs trip like a Fairy , Birds do couple , bill , and sing ; All things on earth , That draws breath , In love together then do join , Why should not I , My fortune try , And seek me out a Valentine . Thanks kind fate I have my wishes , for I have now met my dear , Whom I greet with honey kisses , her sweet sighed my heart does cheer , My dearest love , And Turtle-Dove , Oh let my arms about thee twine , For thou art she , I first did see , Good morrow my fair Valentine . Maid . Surely Sir you are mistaken , for you met some other Maid , Youngmen they are giving and scofing , and as much to her you said ; Then do not stay Me on the way , With your sweet words that you do coin Let me alone , I must be gone , Pray seek some other Valentine . Batchelor . If true faith may be believed , on you first I did set sighed , Sweet let not my heart be grieved , who does love your beauty bright . Oft have I wished I might be blessed , With your sweet presence for to join And ease my mind , Maids should be kind , A and loving to their Valentine . Maid . S Ir , to me you are a stranger , Maids must look before they leap , In fair speeches oft there's danger , snakes under the sweet flowers Creep , maids often find men words but wind , The fun shall set that bright did shine , after a calm , there comes a storm , Go seek some other Valentine . Batchelor . Fortune fair hath now decreed it , that none but you I should meet , Dearly I do love , believe it , for you are my only sweet , my grieved breast can take no rest , Which does my lovesick heart conjoin Love I require Love I desire , Of thee my beauteous Valentine . Maid . For your affection sir I thank you , being more then my desert , Sure I cannot be so cruel , to procure a Lovers smart , This modesty for to deny , Yet from my words I may decline , then banish pain , take heart again , For I will be thy Vam l entine . Batchelor . Now thou speakest like and angel , and my drooping heart revive , For to give thee all contentment , day and night i'll ever strive ; thy courteous Words , much joy affords , And thy rare beauty so divine , sweet let me kiss , my fair Mistress , My only joy and Valentine . Maid . If you intend what you have promised and do love me as you say , I may yield , but if you flatter , I can my affection stay : now I am free as you may see , No man can say that I am thine , but being bound , no help is found , And then no more sweet Valentine . Batchelor . When I from my promise altar , let me then no longer thrive , And let nothing with me prosper , while that I remain alive , pains I'll not spare , but still take care , For to maintain thee near and fine , and for the best that can be dressed , Then thou shalt east sweet Valentine [ . ] Maid . Seeing you are so kind hearted I have freely given consent , And my love to thee imparted , hoping never to repent : i'll constant prove , to thee in Love , For I am thine , and thou art m [ in ] e , i'll saving be , as thou shalt see , Sweet Husband , friend , and Valentine . Batchelor . A thousand thanks I render back again to thee my love , Whom above the world I tender , my firm faith shall never remove , then presently to Church let's high , Where in Hymens band's let's join , take hand and heart , till death depart , My life , my Wife , and Valentine . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. PassingerThe true Lovers Good-morrow . A brace of Valentines I here present , Who now together live in hearts content : These luckily did meet upon the way , In February the fourteenth day . The Tune is , As at Noon Dulcina Rested . Batchelor . I N the month of February , the green leaves begin to spring ; Pretty Lambs trip like a Fairy , Birds do couple , bill , and sing ; All things on earth , That draws breath , In love together then do join , Why should not I , My fortune try , And seek me out a Valentine . Thanks kind fate I have my wishes , for I have now met my dear , Whom I greet with honey kisses , her sweet sighed my heart does cheer , My dearest love , And Turtle-Dove , Oh let my arms about thee twine , For thou art she , I first did see , Good morrow my fair Valentine . Maid . Surely Sir you are mistaken , for you met some other Maid , Youngmen they are giving and scofing , and as much to her you said ; Then do not stay Me on the way , With your sweet words that you do coin Let me alone , I must be gone , Pray seek some other Valentine . Batchelor . If true faith may be believed , on you first I did set sighed , Sweet let not my heart be grieved , who does love your beauty bright . Oft have I wished I might be blessed , With your sweet presence for to join And ease my mind , Maids should be kind , A and loving to their Valentine . Maid . S Ir , to me you are a stranger , Maids must look before they leap , In fair speeches oft there's danger , snakes under the sweet flowers Creep , maids often find men words but wind , The fun shall set that bright did shine , after a calm , there comes a storm , Go seek some other Valentine . Batchelor . Fortune fair hath now decreed it , that none but you I should meet , Dearly I do love , believe it , for you are my only sweet , my grieved breast can take no rest , Which does my lovesick heart conjoin Love I require Love I desire , Of thee my beauteous Valentine . Maid . For your affection sir I thank you , being more then my desert , Sure I cannot be so cruel , to procure a Lovers smart , This modesty for to deny , Yet from my words I may decline , then banish pain , take heart again , For I will be thy Vam l entine . Batchelor . Now thou speakest like and angel , and my drooping heart revive , For to give thee all contentment , day and night i'll ever strive ; thy courteous Words , much joy affords , And thy rare beauty so divine , sweet let me kiss , my fair Mistress , My only joy and Valentine . Maid . If you intend what you have promised and do love me as you say , I may yield , but if you flatter , I can my affection stay : now I am free as you may see , No man can say that I am thine , but being bound , no help is found , And then no more sweet Valentine . Batchelor . When I from my promise altar , let me then no longer thrive , And let nothing with me prosper , while that I remain alive , pains I'll not spare , but still take care , For to maintain thee near and fine , and for the best that can be dressed , Then thou shalt east sweet Valentine [ . ] Maid . Seeing you are so kind hearted I have freely given consent , And my love to thee imparted , hoping never to repent : i'll constant prove , to thee in Love , For I am thine , and thou art m [ in ] e , i'll saving be , as thou shalt see , Sweet Husband , friend , and Valentine . Batchelor . A thousand thanks I render back again to thee my love , Whom above the world I tender , my firm faith shall never remove , then presently to Church let's high , Where in Hymens band's let's join , take hand and heart , till death depart , My life , my Wife , and Valentine . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger 