Damons Triumph ; Or , Celia's Joy . When Lovers in their tender hearts Do feel tormenting pain , Then Cupid he pulls out his Darts , And heals their wounds again . Tune is ; Russels Farewell : or , Jenny Gin . M y dearest dear could I relate the sorrows of my heart , Thou wouldst condemn my cruel fate , and ease me of my smart ; But since my tongue cannot express the torments that I feel , In silence and in heaviness my passion I conceal . Ah Celia let my secret groans approach unto thine ear , And pity him that still bemoans his death now drawing near : Except from thee I pity find , no hope's there is for me , And if thou dost not prove more kind , more wretched I must be . Would I had never seen thine eyes , or herd thy charming tongue , Which both together me surprise , and do me so much wrong , That now my life a burden seems , and tiresome is to me , For by my Loves fantastic dreams I work my misery . O wretched and unhappy man , how am I now betrayed , And still must be , do what I can , obedient to the maid , Whose beauty works my overthrow , and fills my heart with pain ; how blessed were I could I but know the way to break my chain . Then fair one pray thee do thy worst , And end this mortal strife , For certain I am not the first , If I do loose my life For beauty's sake , as now I am like , By thine all conquering eye ; Oh then make haste to one home blow strike And end my misery . What ails my love for to complain of my severity ? Am I the cause of all thy pain , tell me the reason why ? No Damon no , thou art to blame thy truelove to abuse , For didst thou feel my scorching flame , such words thou wouldst not use . I love thee as I love my heart , and so shall ever do ; I'de rather die than from thee part , my passion is so true : And if thou couldst me once persuade I caused thy grief or pain , Twould surely kill a lovesick maid , against whom thou dost complain . But I'm so far from slighting thee , I thee most dearly prize , And dearly I delight in thee ; then learn to be more wise , And blame not her unconstancy who thee does dearly love , And vows to be as true as thee as ever was Turtle Dove . When Damon herd these words so kind , his heart did leap for joy , It pleased his tormented mind , that Celia was not coy ; He thankful was to Cupid then , that with his golden dart , wherewith he used to wound poor men , he pierced the females heart . Thus hand in hand away they went , with many a loving smile , They both did seem to be content , and in a little while The Marriage Rites did celebrate , and tie that gordian knot , Which none could lose but mortal fate or cause to be forgotten . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery [ : ] T. PassengerDamons Triumph ; Or , Celia's Joy . When Lovers in their tender hearts Do feel tormenting pain , Then Cupid he pulls out his Darts , And heals their wounds again . Tune is ; Russels Farewell : or , Jenny Gin . M y dearest dear could I relate the sorrows of my heart , Thou wouldst condemn my cruel fate , and ease me of my smart ; But since my tongue cannot express the torments that I feel , In silence and in heaviness my passion I conceal . Ah Celia let my secret groans approach unto thine ear , And pity him that still bemoans his death now drawing near : Except from thee I pity find , no hope's there is for me , And if thou dost not prove more kind , more wretched I must be . Would I had never seen thine eyes , or herd thy charming tongue , Which both together me surprise , and do me so much wrong , That now my life a burden seems , and tiresome is to me , For by my Loves fantastic dreams I work my misery . O wretched and unhappy man , how am I now betrayed , And still must be , do what I can , obedient to the maid , Whose beauty works my overthrow , and fills my heart with pain ; how blessed were I could I but know the way to break my chain . Then fair one pray thee do thy worst , And end this mortal strife , For certain I am not the first , If I do loose my life For beauty's sake , as now I am like , By thine all conquering eye ; Oh then make haste to one home blow strike And end my misery . What ails my love for to complain of my severity ? Am I the cause of all thy pain , tell me the reason why ? No Damon no , thou art to blame thy truelove to abuse , For didst thou feel my scorching flame , such words thou wouldst not use . I love thee as I love my heart , and so shall ever do ; I'de rather die than from thee part , my passion is so true : And if thou couldst me once persuade I caused thy grief or pain , Twould surely kill a lovesick maid , against whom thou dost complain . But I'm so far from slighting thee , I thee most dearly prize , And dearly I delight in thee ; then learn to be more wise , And blame not her unconstancy who thee does dearly love , And vows to be as true as thee as ever was Turtle Dove . When Damon herd these words so kind , his heart did leap for joy , It pleased his tormented mind , that Celia was not coy ; He thankful was to Cupid then , that with his golden dart , wherewith he used to wound poor men , he pierced the females heart . Thus hand in hand away they went , with many a loving smile , They both did seem to be content , and in a little while The Marriage Rites did celebrate , and tie that gordian knot , Which none could lose but mortal fate or cause to be forgotten . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery [ : ] T. Passenger 