The Jolly Cheese-Monger ; Or , the Presbyterian Follies plainly Discovered ; together , with his Wives Consulting the Cunning Man of her Husbands Non-performance of Family WORSER uty . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . H Ere's a pleasant Ditty I'll Sing you , if you please , It's of a Paesbyterian that dealt in Rotten Cheese , Nay , and Female Flesh to boot , Oh! He sweetly would Salute The Girls at pleasaure , out of measure ; and without Dispute , He would make sure of each Maiden-Head , Sometime while his sweet Wife she was sleeping in her Bed ; He fairly Laid them down , in Silk or Russet Gown , A loving Brother , such another scarce is in the Town . Friends this Presbyterian was always so Devout , That he Obtained his end , when the same he went about ; Having such a Cunning way , that they could not say him nay , For as he Entered , soon they Ventured for to Sport and Play : Until their Aprons grew short before And thus it seems he served about Ten or Twelve or more , For faith he'd lay them down , in Silk for Russet Gown , A loving Brother , such another scarce is in the TO own . If a Youthful Damsel , once came to live with him , Before a Month was ended , he'd Stroke her Limb by Limb ; Though she cried out Fie for Shame , Master Master Oh my Dame ! It's all a case Sir , he'd Embrace her and pursue the Game : Till he had Cropped the Dear Virgin Rose , It pleased the Pretty Girls loving Friends we may Suppose , For faith he'd lay them down , in Silk or Russet Gown , A loving Brother , such another scarce is in the Town . TO hus with Pretty Lasses he Lavished all his Store , And had not Pleased his Wife for a year or two or more ; Neither morning noon nor night , could she have the least delight TO his truly Vexed her and Perplexed her , very well it might : Because she could not enjoy a Crumb , For when to Bed he came straight to her he turned his BUM , And would not lay her down , this made the Woman Frown , A Wicked Brother , such another scarce is in the TO own . O this Non-performance did persecute her mind , Poor Creature she was troubled that he was so unkind ; Being full of discontent to a Cunning Man she went , To know the reason such a season should her joys prevent , TO he Cunning Man made her this Reply , A Charm lies in his Breeches which does your joys deny ; Oh! Break the Charms she cried you shall be satisfied TO his Guinea take it , if you break it , twenty more beside . Mistress never doubt it I'll break the Cunning Charm , I thank you , yet be careful you do his things no harm , No I wont upon my life as you a're a Married Wife , You need not fear me all that's near me knows my skill is rife Home she returned yet nevertheless ; Her Presbyterian Husband the Damsels did caress , He fairly laid them down in Silk or Russet Gown , etc While he used this Practice when ever he discerned , TO heir Bellies grow incepit , he gave them what they earned And a Crown or two beside , if they would be satisfied , But this Disaster of the Master Nancy would not hide , B ut made him keep her the Lying-in , And take her Child to boot o , this made a horrid Din , The Wife began to frown and cust him up and down , etc From the very Pulpit the Honest Preacher he , Gave him a sharp Reproof for his gross Debauchery ; Nay before the Brethren he declare d it was a since , Yet being tardy he was hardy thus through thick and thin , He was resolved henceforth to run , And never the least Repented the deed which he had done , But fairly laid them down in Silk and Russet Gown , etc Quoth his Wife now I find the Charm that kept him back , From yielding me the Pleasure that I so long did lack , I might well be served so when he did to others go , It is a pity one that's pretty should be kept so low , Yet if he does not pay this old score , I'll fit him for his fancy , but Mum for that no more ; I'ld make him lay me down or else on him I'll frown , A w i cked Brother , such another scarce is in the Town . Printed for J. Bright in East Smit [ hfield ] . The Jolly Cheese-Monger ; Or , the Presbyterian Follies plainly Discovered ; together , with his Wives Consulting the Cunning Man of her Husbands Non-performance of Family WORSER uty . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . H Ere's a pleasant Ditty I'll Sing you , if you please , It's of a Paesbyterian that dealt in Rotten Cheese , Nay , and Female Flesh to boot , Oh! He sweetly would Salute The Girls at pleasaure , out of measure ; and without Dispute , He would make sure of each Maiden-Head , Sometime while his sweet Wife she was sleeping in her Bed ; He fairly Laid them down , in Silk or Russet Gown , A loving Brother , such another scarce is in the Town . Friends this Presbyterian was always so Devout , That he Obtained his end , when the same he went about ; Having such a Cunning way , that they could not say him nay , For as he Entered , soon they Ventured for to Sport and Play : Until their Aprons grew short before And thus it seems he served about Ten or Twelve or more , For faith he'd lay them down , in Silk for Russet Gown , A loving Brother , such another scarce is in the TO own . If a Youthful Damsel , once came to live with him , Before a Month was ended , he'd Stroke her Limb by Limb ; Though she cried out Fie for Shame , Master Master Oh my Dame ! It's all a case Sir , he'd Embrace her and pursue the Game : Till he had Cropped the Dear Virgin Rose , It pleased the Pretty Girls loving Friends we may Suppose , For faith he'd lay them down , in Silk or Russet Gown , A loving Brother , such another scarce is in the Town . TO hus with Pretty Lasses he Lavished all his Store , And had not Pleased his Wife for a year or two or more ; Neither morning noon nor night , could she have the least delight TO his truly Vexed her and Perplexed her , very well it might : Because she could not enjoy a Crumb , For when to Bed he came straight to her he turned his BUM , And would not lay her down , this made the Woman Frown , A Wicked Brother , such another scarce is in the TO own . O this Non-performance did persecute her mind , Poor Creature she was troubled that he was so unkind ; Being full of discontent to a Cunning Man she went , To know the reason such a season should her joys prevent , TO he Cunning Man made her this Reply , A Charm lies in his Breeches which does your joys deny ; Oh! Break the Charms she cried you shall be satisfied TO his Guinea take it , if you break it , twenty more beside . Mistress never doubt it I'll break the Cunning Charm , I thank you , yet be careful you do his things no harm , No I wont upon my life as you a're a Married Wife , You need not fear me all that's near me knows my skill is rife Home she returned yet nevertheless ; Her Presbyterian Husband the Damsels did caress , He fairly laid them down in Silk or Russet Gown , etc While he used this Practice when ever he discerned , TO heir Bellies grow incepit , he gave them what they earned And a Crown or two beside , if they would be satisfied , But this Disaster of the Master Nancy would not hide , B ut made him keep her the Lying-in , And take her Child to boot o , this made a horrid Din , The Wife began to frown and cust him up and down , etc From the very Pulpit the Honest Preacher he , Gave him a sharp Reproof for his gross Debauchery ; Nay before the Brethren he declare d it was a since , Yet being tardy he was hardy thus through thick and thin , He was resolved henceforth to run , And never the least Repented the deed which he had done , But fairly laid them down in Silk and Russet Gown , etc Quoth his Wife now I find the Charm that kept him back , From yielding me the Pleasure that I so long did lack , I might well be served so when he did to others go , It is a pity one that's pretty should be kept so low , Yet if he does not pay this old score , I'll fit him for his fancy , but Mum for that no more ; I'ld make him lay me down or else on him I'll frown , A w i cked Brother , such another scarce is in the Town . Printed for J. Bright in East Smit [ hfield ] . 