A New SONG , CALLED , The Happy Young-Man , OR , THE VIRGIN betrayed . Tune of , Billy and Molly . This may be Printed , R. P. B Y a Brook beneath a shade , one Eveing in hot weather , There I say a Pretty Maid was going for to both her , She sat Gazing on the stream , and thought no person did espy her , She sweetly sang , but did not dream , that I lay hid so nigh her . She plucked off her rich attire , and on the bank she threw it , My poor heart was set on fire , with lying close to view it , She exposed her Golden hair ; which Gentle Breathes odd Air Saluted , No Nymph could have looked so fair , or with her Charms disputed . She undrest unto her Smock , and put her foot i'th' water , At first 'twas cold , she drew it back , but put in both soon after , Then she plucked off Smock and all , and showed her tender Tempting Belly , Her pretty hand so white and small , hid what I dare not tell you . In she ran with eager haste , lest some might her discover , And stood in above her Wast , and washed her self all over , Her snowy Breast so round and fair , was such a powerful temptation , Nothing could with her compare , ever since the World's Creation . I no longer could forbear , or such restraint endure , But undrest as quick as Air , and in I leapt unto her , She cried out , and flounced about , but I her Tender waste surrounded , In my Arms I brought her out , for fear she should be drowned . I her snowy limbs embraced , she Cried Good Sir my honour , I swore I the Joys would Taste , and down I fell upon her , Never was Man so highly blessed , with such a fair and Charming Creature ; I lay panting on her breast , admiring every feature . She like to the Sun Arose , in any Summer's Morning , Blushing she put on her Clothes , who wanted no adorning , She betwixt a smile and frown , not vexed , nor pleased , at my embraces , Modestly put on her Gown , and hid her Charming graces . Now Good Sir , I pray , said she , lets Join our hearts together , In bonds of all felicity , that nothing can dissever , I replied , with all my heart , such lasting Joys were worth possessing , Here's my hand , we'll never part , but Cherish such a Blessing . Printed for R. Kell at Blue Anchor near Pye-CornerA New SONG , CALLED , The Happy Young-Man , OR , THE VIRGIN betrayed . Tune of , Billy and Molly . This may be Printed , R. P. B Y a Brook beneath a shade , one Eveing in hot weather , There I say a Pretty Maid was going for to both her , She sat Gazing on the stream , and thought no person did espy her , She sweetly sang , but did not dream , that I lay hid so nigh her . She plucked off her rich attire , and on the bank she threw it , My poor heart was set on fire , with lying close to view it , She exposed her Golden hair ; which Gentle Breathes odd Air Saluted , No Nymph could have looked so fair , or with her Charms disputed . She undrest unto her Smock , and put her foot i'th' water , At first 'twas cold , she drew it back , but put in both soon after , Then she plucked off Smock and all , and showed her tender Tempting Belly , Her pretty hand so white and small , hid what I dare not tell you . In she ran with eager haste , lest some might her discover , And stood in above her Wast , and washed her self all over , Her snowy Breast so round and fair , was such a powerful temptation , Nothing could with her compare , ever since the World's Creation . I no longer could forbear , or such restraint endure , But undrest as quick as Air , and in I leapt unto her , She cried out , and flounced about , but I her Tender waste surrounded , In my Arms I brought her out , for fear she should be drowned . I her snowy limbs embraced , she Cried Good Sir my honour , I swore I the Joys would Taste , and down I fell upon her , Never was Man so highly blessed , with such a fair and Charming Creature ; I lay panting on her breast , admiring every feature . She like to the Sun Arose , in any Summer's Morning , Blushing she put on her Clothes , who wanted no adorning , She betwixt a smile and frown , not vexed , nor pleased , at my embraces , Modestly put on her Gown , and hid her Charming graces . Now Good Sir , I pray , said she , lets Join our hearts together , In bonds of all felicity , that nothing can dissever , I replied , with all my heart , such lasting Joys were worth possessing , Here's my hand , we'll never part , but Cherish such a Blessing . Printed for R. Kell at Blue Anchor near Pye-Corner 