The Jolly Welsh-Woman . Who drinking at the Sign of the Crown in London , found a Spring In her Mugg , for Joy of which hur Sung the praise of Old England , resolving never to return to Wales again . Tune of , Heigh brave Popery , etc Licensed according to Order . TO Here was and Old woman came out of North Wales , And up to fair London her merrily Sails , It was for her pleasure Cuts-plutter-a-nails , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , Jolly brave Welsh Woman , Delicate Welsh Woman O. As soon as hur came into fair London town , Hur went to and Alehouse , the sign of the Crown , In order to tipple hur straight did fit down , Sing Oh brave Welsh woman , etc Hur being a ' weary and willing to rest , Hur would not be one of the worst of the Guest , But called for a pitcher of Ale of the best , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , etc The Tapster then giving the jug in her hand , The Welsh woman straight on hur feet she did stand , And drank a good Health to hur King of England , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , etc Now while her had got the jug at her snout , And being both lusty , courageous and stout , Hug gave it a jog , till her swig it halt out , Sing Oh rare Welsh woman , etc The Tapster he see her to be of that strain , And how she did tipple the Liquour amain , Thought he I will fill up thy pitcher again , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , Jolly brave Welsh Woman , Delicate Welsh Woman O. The jug hur had placed on the Bench by her side , To which the young tapster did cunningly slide , And filled it as if it had been a full tide , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , Jolly brave Welsh Woman , Delicate Welsh Woman O. Now her did not know how her pitcher did fill , Therefore her did say with a merry good will , Here's Tipple and drink , and her Pitcher full still : Sing Oh brave England , Jolly brave England , Delicate England O. The praise of his Nation Cuts-plut her to will sing , Hur never had known such a wondered thing , The jugs in this land has a delicate spring , sing Oh brave England , etc Once more she saluted the lips of her mugg , And gave it a hearty and dexterous tug , The Tapster once more he did fill up her jog , sing Oh brave England , etc The Liquour up into her Noddle did steel , The Floor with hur feel then hur hardly could feel , So that hur began for to stagger and reel , sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , etc Hur swore hur would never to Wales any more , For here hur has tasted Rich liquour good store , The like in all Wales hur had ne [ ' ] er drank before . sing Oh brave England , etc Hereafter hur never will honour the Leek , This was the best Nation as ever hur did seek , Here's liquour of life that will make a Cat speak sing Oh brave England , etc In praise of his liquour hur Cap up she flung , For why it Created and Eloquent Tongue , Beside it will make and Old Woman look young , sing Oh brave Nappy Ale , Delicate Nappy Ale , Dainty fine Nappy Ale O. Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Jolly Welsh-Woman . Who drinking at the Sign of the Crown in London , found a Spring In her Mugg , for Joy of which hur Sung the praise of Old England , resolving never to return to Wales again . Tune of , Heigh brave Popery , etc Licensed according to Order . TO Here was and Old woman came out of North Wales , And up to fair London her merrily Sails , It was for her pleasure Cuts-plutter-a-nails , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , Jolly brave Welsh Woman , Delicate Welsh Woman O. As soon as hur came into fair London town , Hur went to and Alehouse , the sign of the Crown , In order to tipple hur straight did fit down , Sing Oh brave Welsh woman , etc Hur being a ' weary and willing to rest , Hur would not be one of the worst of the Guest , But called for a pitcher of Ale of the best , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , etc The Tapster then giving the jug in her hand , The Welsh woman straight on hur feet she did stand , And drank a good Health to hur King of England , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , etc Now while her had got the jug at her snout , And being both lusty , courageous and stout , Hug gave it a jog , till her swig it halt out , Sing Oh rare Welsh woman , etc The Tapster he see her to be of that strain , And how she did tipple the Liquour amain , Thought he I will fill up thy pitcher again , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , Jolly brave Welsh Woman , Delicate Welsh Woman O. The jug hur had placed on the Bench by her side , To which the young tapster did cunningly slide , And filled it as if it had been a full tide , Sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , Jolly brave Welsh Woman , Delicate Welsh Woman O. Now her did not know how her pitcher did fill , Therefore her did say with a merry good will , Here's Tipple and drink , and her Pitcher full still : Sing Oh brave England , Jolly brave England , Delicate England O. The praise of his Nation Cuts-plut her to will sing , Hur never had known such a wondered thing , The jugs in this land has a delicate spring , sing Oh brave England , etc Once more she saluted the lips of her mugg , And gave it a hearty and dexterous tug , The Tapster once more he did fill up her jog , sing Oh brave England , etc The Liquour up into her Noddle did steel , The Floor with hur feel then hur hardly could feel , So that hur began for to stagger and reel , sing Oh brave Welsh Woman , etc Hur swore hur would never to Wales any more , For here hur has tasted Rich liquour good store , The like in all Wales hur had ne [ ' ] er drank before . sing Oh brave England , etc Hereafter hur never will honour the Leek , This was the best Nation as ever hur did seek , Here's liquour of life that will make a Cat speak sing Oh brave England , etc In praise of his liquour hur Cap up she flung , For why it Created and Eloquent Tongue , Beside it will make and Old Woman look young , sing Oh brave Nappy Ale , Delicate Nappy Ale , Dainty fine Nappy Ale O. Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 