Kates Hue-and-Cry after Her MAIDEN-HEAD : With a Reward of Five Shilling to any youngman that can help her to it again . Tune of The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People all I pray draw nigh , while I this Ditty do make plain ; This is indeed a Hue-and-Cry after a Loss which I sustain , One Night as I was laid in Bed , there I did loose my Maidenhead . In London City did I dwell , and likewise at the Tavern too , There this unhappy Chance befell , which makes my very Heart to rue ; All Comforts they are from me fled , for I have lost my Maidenhead . Believe me , for I speak the Truth . one of my honest Master's Men , A pretty dapper sweet-faced Youth , was used to kiss me , now and then ; And at the length stole to my Bed , and there I lost my Maidenhead . He evermore did speak my Praise , and likewise kissed me every day ; He had such pretty winning ways , no Lass alive could say him nay : But now those pleasant Joys are fled , and I have lost my Maidenhead . But ah ! one night among the rest , this youngman to my Chamber came , And there himself he soon undrest , alas ! I could not blush for shame ; But straight he tumbled into Bed , and robbed me of my Maidenhead . I softly said , why do you so ? he streightways talked of pleasant Joys , I might have called for help I know ; but loath I was to make a noise : And now all joys are from me flad , for I have lost my Maidenhead . To speak the truth , I seem to lie , my very heart did quake for fear , But yet he made more noise than I , at length my Mistress she did hear , Who ' rose , and straight approached my Bed , but first I'ld lost my Maidenhead . Out at the Feet he straight did creep this Youth my Mistress did not see , And I lay close , as if asleep ; but ' sakes she soon awakened me : Too late she did approach my Bed , for I had lost my Maidenhead . Upon the Floar his Breeches lay my Mistress said , How came these here ? Alas ! I knew not what to say , but trembled then , and quaked for fear ; My Cheeks then blushed like Scarlet read , for I had lost my Maiden head . Next Morning when I did arise , my Mistress I was called before , While Tears was flowing from my Eyes , she took and turned me out of Door : Thus I by Folly was misled . in losing of my Maidenhead . Some Youth that hears me thus complain , if he this Comfort can afford , To bring my Maiden head again , five Shillings shall be his Reward : For time to come I'll wiser be , and keep my Maidenhead , said she . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Kates Hue-and-Cry after Her MAIDEN-HEAD : With a Reward of Five Shilling to any youngman that can help her to it again . Tune of The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People all I pray draw nigh , while I this Ditty do make plain ; This is indeed a Hue-and-Cry after a Loss which I sustain , One Night as I was laid in Bed , there I did loose my Maidenhead . In London City did I dwell , and likewise at the Tavern too , There this unhappy Chance befell , which makes my very Heart to rue ; All Comforts they are from me fled , for I have lost my Maidenhead . Believe me , for I speak the Truth . one of my honest Master's Men , A pretty dapper sweet-faced Youth , was used to kiss me , now and then ; And at the length stole to my Bed , and there I lost my Maidenhead . He evermore did speak my Praise , and likewise kissed me every day ; He had such pretty winning ways , no Lass alive could say him nay : But now those pleasant Joys are fled , and I have lost my Maidenhead . But ah ! one night among the rest , this youngman to my Chamber came , And there himself he soon undrest , alas ! I could not blush for shame ; But straight he tumbled into Bed , and robbed me of my Maidenhead . I softly said , why do you so ? he streightways talked of pleasant Joys , I might have called for help I know ; but loath I was to make a noise : And now all joys are from me flad , for I have lost my Maidenhead . To speak the truth , I seem to lie , my very heart did quake for fear , But yet he made more noise than I , at length my Mistress she did hear , Who ' rose , and straight approached my Bed , but first I'ld lost my Maidenhead . Out at the Feet he straight did creep this Youth my Mistress did not see , And I lay close , as if asleep ; but ' sakes she soon awakened me : Too late she did approach my Bed , for I had lost my Maidenhead . Upon the Floar his Breeches lay my Mistress said , How came these here ? Alas ! I knew not what to say , but trembled then , and quaked for fear ; My Cheeks then blushed like Scarlet read , for I had lost my Maiden head . Next Morning when I did arise , my Mistress I was called before , While Tears was flowing from my Eyes , she took and turned me out of Door : Thus I by Folly was misled . in losing of my Maidenhead . Some Youth that hears me thus complain , if he this Comfort can afford , To bring my Maiden head again , five Shillings shall be his Reward : For time to come I'll wiser be , and keep my Maidenhead , said she . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 