THE Deceiver deceived : Or , The Virgins Revenge . Those that in Loves wide Grove delight to range , And please themselves with pretty charming change , Delight to triumph over the softest spoils Of yielding Beauty , seldom escape escape the toils , For Love to take them has a thousand wiles . Tune of , Ah cruel bloody fate ! This may be printed , R . LS . Man . A H cruel Maid give over to punish him with scorn Who has for you in store a flame as bright as morn . Come dear be kind the Powers of Love their Virtues misemployed To make with such care , a Creature so fair if not to be enjoyed . Maid . Tell me no more ; in vain will all your Courtship prove I smile to hear you feign a false pretended love : What Grave is free from broken vows to yielding Virgins made whom you let languish in their anguish when to Love betrayed . Man . It's true some gentle hours I trifled in their arms Yet no sweet face but yours could make me own its Charms The feeble Beauty's they displayed each moment seemed to wast But your's my delight , is so dazzling bright it must for ever last , Maid . So flattered your smooth Tongue so were your looks addressed Such smiles about you hung such liking you expressed ; To those senseless hearts you gained those now that mourn their fate In being undone , by trusting too soon though sighs are breathed too late . Man . That's their own fault , in haste to entertain a flame , Which in their cheeks could blast The Lilies and Rose's stain : Disarm them of those killing beams which in your eyes appear Those eyes which are bright , those eyes by whose light my course , love bids me steer . Maid . In vain you try my heart no Conquest there you'll gain , Too feeble is your art to make me suffer pain , You seek a triumph there in vain no Trophy you shall boast But in what so fain you would now obtain you shall be ever crossed . Man . Such cruelty can't live within so fair a breast A milder sentence give to me with love oppressed , Oh to a flame that burns like mine some speedy Cordial ply Or he that till now , Love never made vow for love of you must die . Maid . No more of love to me though you in earnest were As deaf as Seas I'de be , for love i'de give despair Revenge the wrongs the softer sex sustain by your false wiles Revenge false man , the Nymph that's undone by your deluding smiles . Man . Just is your doom bright maid just the disdain you show With scorn for scorn i'm paid the powers thus let me know . What it's to sighs and pine for love since I unmoved could see Beauty's with tears & amp ; their tender fears kind Virgins sighs for me . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . THE Deceiver deceived : Or , The Virgins Revenge . Those that in Loves wide Grove delight to range , And please themselves with pretty charming change , Delight to triumph over the softest spoils Of yielding Beauty , seldom escape escape the toils , For Love to take them has a thousand wiles . Tune of , Ah cruel bloody fate ! This may be printed , R . LS . Man . A H cruel Maid give over to punish him with scorn Who has for you in store a flame as bright as morn . Come dear be kind the Powers of Love their Virtues misemployed To make with such care , a Creature so fair if not to be enjoyed . Maid . Tell me no more ; in vain will all your Courtship prove I smile to hear you feign a false pretended love : What Grave is free from broken vows to yielding Virgins made whom you let languish in their anguish when to Love betrayed . Man . It's true some gentle hours I trifled in their arms Yet no sweet face but yours could make me own its Charms The feeble Beauty's they displayed each moment seemed to wast But your's my delight , is so dazzling bright it must for ever last , Maid . So flattered your smooth Tongue so were your looks addressed Such smiles about you hung such liking you expressed ; To those senseless hearts you gained those now that mourn their fate In being undone , by trusting too soon though sighs are breathed too late . Man . That's their own fault , in haste to entertain a flame , Which in their cheeks could blast The Lilies and Rose's stain : Disarm them of those killing beams which in your eyes appear Those eyes which are bright , those eyes by whose light my course , love bids me steer . Maid . In vain you try my heart no Conquest there you'll gain , Too feeble is your art to make me suffer pain , You seek a triumph there in vain no Trophy you shall boast But in what so fain you would now obtain you shall be ever crossed . Man . Such cruelty can't live within so fair a breast A milder sentence give to me with love oppressed , Oh to a flame that burns like mine some speedy Cordial ply Or he that till now , Love never made vow for love of you must die . Maid . No more of love to me though you in earnest were As deaf as Seas I'de be , for love i'de give despair Revenge the wrongs the softer sex sustain by your false wiles Revenge false man , the Nymph that's undone by your deluding smiles . Man . Just is your doom bright maid just the disdain you show With scorn for scorn i'm paid the powers thus let me know . What it's to sighs and pine for love since I unmoved could see Beauty's with tears & amp ; their tender fears kind Virgins sighs for me . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 