The Unequal Match : OR , THE Old feeble Taylor's Insufficiency Containing , The Young Beautiful Brides Lamentation . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet passion . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Young Woman , it's very well known , Who have Married a narrow foul sorrowful Drone , Above Forty Years Old , and a Taylor by Trade , Yet alas ! to my sorrow , I still am a Maid , For he lies by me like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . I brought him a Portion of Silver and Gold , Even as much as my Apron was able to hold , Yet upon such and Husband it was ill bestowed , At my heart grief and sorrow now lies like a load , For to [ th ] i [ n ] k how he sleeps like a stone in a Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . My Parents , I tell you , are highly to blame , For they knew he was Aged , [ & amp ; ] crippled and Lame , But because he was Rich , and had House and Land free , Why they strait did ordain him a Husband for me , But lies in my Bed like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . There was a brisk Gallant did Court me of late , Yet because that he had but a slender Estate , They disdain [ ' ] worser him , and chosen me this lump of Disease , Which I Married my Covetous Parents to please , Now he lies in my Bed like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . And thus for the Luere of Gold , I declare , I am ruined for ever , Ah! how shall I bore The invincible torment which I undergo , Oh this wretched Old Taylor proves my overthrow ; For he lies in my Bed like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . That day which I Married this Cucumber slave , I do heartily wish I had gone to my Grave , Then my Grief , and my Torment had been at and end , But I now must for ever my Minutes here spend , In complaining of him , who has brought me to thrall , For he yeah [ l ] ds a young woman no kindness at all . Sure never had Creature such cause to Lament , I have never so much as one glance of Content , From my fumbling Taylor by Night or by Day , It's enough to make any one wander astray , For he lies in my Bed like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . Both Morning and Night I did heartily pray , That kind death would be pleased to convey him away , That I might some Brisk Airy young Gallant enjoy , For me Dotard does all my sweet Blessings destroy , Every Night he lies by like a stone in a Wall , And yields a young woman no kindness at all . The smell of his Cabbage I cannot abide , For as every night he lies close by my side , Both his Cabbage and Cucumber yield such a fume , That I often have wished myself out of the Room ; Beside he lies by like a stone in the wall , And shows a young woman no Kindness at all . I'll writ on this creeping Old Taylor no more , But will seek out a Brisk Spark who my charms with adore [ , ] For to reap the dear Pleasures of Joy and Delight , From the Tavern to Playhouse he will me invite , Oh methinks those sweet pleasures already I see , Now the De'el take the Taylor , a Gallant for me . Printed for J. B lare at the Looking-glass on London - B ridgeThe Unequal Match : OR , THE Old feeble Taylor's Insufficiency Containing , The Young Beautiful Brides Lamentation . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet passion . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Young Woman , it's very well known , Who have Married a narrow foul sorrowful Drone , Above Forty Years Old , and a Taylor by Trade , Yet alas ! to my sorrow , I still am a Maid , For he lies by me like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . I brought him a Portion of Silver and Gold , Even as much as my Apron was able to hold , Yet upon such and Husband it was ill bestowed , At my heart grief and sorrow now lies like a load , For to [ th ] i [ n ] k how he sleeps like a stone in a Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . My Parents , I tell you , are highly to blame , For they knew he was Aged , [ & amp ; ] crippled and Lame , But because he was Rich , and had House and Land free , Why they strait did ordain him a Husband for me , But lies in my Bed like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . There was a brisk Gallant did Court me of late , Yet because that he had but a slender Estate , They disdain [ ' ] worser him , and chosen me this lump of Disease , Which I Married my Covetous Parents to please , Now he lies in my Bed like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . And thus for the Luere of Gold , I declare , I am ruined for ever , Ah! how shall I bore The invincible torment which I undergo , Oh this wretched Old Taylor proves my overthrow ; For he lies in my Bed like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . That day which I Married this Cucumber slave , I do heartily wish I had gone to my Grave , Then my Grief , and my Torment had been at and end , But I now must for ever my Minutes here spend , In complaining of him , who has brought me to thrall , For he yeah [ l ] ds a young woman no kindness at all . Sure never had Creature such cause to Lament , I have never so much as one glance of Content , From my fumbling Taylor by Night or by Day , It's enough to make any one wander astray , For he lies in my Bed like a stone in the Wall , And will do a poor woman no kindness at all . Both Morning and Night I did heartily pray , That kind death would be pleased to convey him away , That I might some Brisk Airy young Gallant enjoy , For me Dotard does all my sweet Blessings destroy , Every Night he lies by like a stone in a Wall , And yields a young woman no kindness at all . The smell of his Cabbage I cannot abide , For as every night he lies close by my side , Both his Cabbage and Cucumber yield such a fume , That I often have wished myself out of the Room ; Beside he lies by like a stone in the wall , And shows a young woman no Kindness at all . I'll writ on this creeping Old Taylor no more , But will seek out a Brisk Spark who my charms with adore [ , ] For to reap the dear Pleasures of Joy and Delight , From the Tavern to Playhouse he will me invite , Oh methinks those sweet pleasures already I see , Now the De'el take the Taylor , a Gallant for me . Printed for J. B lare at the Looking-glass on London - B ridge 