The Damsels Dream : OR , HER Sorrowful Lamentation for her most unhappy Disappointment . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . I Once lay slaping on my Bed in a most joyful Ecstasy , No Creature but my Maidenhead all night to bear me Company ; There I dreamt of Golden Pleasures , which did most delightful seem ; My Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . A youthful Gallant tall and trim to me did perfect kindness show , My Heart was soon inflamed with him , and Love in every Vein did flow ; Twenty thousand times he Kissed me which did most delightful seem : Yet Friends believe me it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . He talked of a Married State and bid me then appoint the Day ; To which I condescended strait having not power to say nay ; I thought every Minute seven , Marriage Life so sweet did seem Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a dream . The wished for Morning came as last , wherein I should be happy made , And through the Street I thought I passed , with Bridemaids sumptuously arrayed . And my Heart with Joys transported , this blessed day did pleasant seem : Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . When Dinner came my Joys was crowned , my Heart was lifted up in Pride , To see the smiling Bowl go round , with Healths to the beloved Bride , And therewith they often joyed me , this did most delightful seem ; Yet Friends believe me , this did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . I after Dinner was conveyed , into a fair and spacious Hall , Where most delgihtful Music played , we for the sweetest Tunes did call ; But I wished the day soon ended , the night would more pleasant seem : Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . I thought it then a tedious day , wishing for the approaching night : I to my self did often say I then shall have my Hearts delight ; In the Arms of my sweet Bridegroom thus did most delightful seem : Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . Now when the tedious day was passed , and I was in my Chamber led Thought I long looked for's come at last o ! now Farewell my Maidenhead : This no longer shall torment me , Married State do's pleasant seem : Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . I was unstripped , to Bed I went , then came to me my sweet Bridegroom , After short time in laughter spent , our Friends did all depart the Room ; In his Arms he then embraced me , this did most delightful seem ; Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . His Arms was round my slender Waste , the pleasant Joys of Love did reap ; Ever I those pleasant Charms could taste alas ! I wakened from my Sleep : Would my Sleep had longer lasted , for it did most pleasant seem ; Youngmen believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Damsels Dream : OR , HER Sorrowful Lamentation for her most unhappy Disappointment . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . I Once lay slaping on my Bed in a most joyful Ecstasy , No Creature but my Maidenhead all night to bear me Company ; There I dreamt of Golden Pleasures , which did most delightful seem ; My Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . A youthful Gallant tall and trim to me did perfect kindness show , My Heart was soon inflamed with him , and Love in every Vein did flow ; Twenty thousand times he Kissed me which did most delightful seem : Yet Friends believe me it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . He talked of a Married State and bid me then appoint the Day ; To which I condescended strait having not power to say nay ; I thought every Minute seven , Marriage Life so sweet did seem Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a dream . The wished for Morning came as last , wherein I should be happy made , And through the Street I thought I passed , with Bridemaids sumptuously arrayed . And my Heart with Joys transported , this blessed day did pleasant seem : Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . When Dinner came my Joys was crowned , my Heart was lifted up in Pride , To see the smiling Bowl go round , with Healths to the beloved Bride , And therewith they often joyed me , this did most delightful seem ; Yet Friends believe me , this did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . I after Dinner was conveyed , into a fair and spacious Hall , Where most delgihtful Music played , we for the sweetest Tunes did call ; But I wished the day soon ended , the night would more pleasant seem : Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . I thought it then a tedious day , wishing for the approaching night : I to my self did often say I then shall have my Hearts delight ; In the Arms of my sweet Bridegroom thus did most delightful seem : Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . Now when the tedious day was passed , and I was in my Chamber led Thought I long looked for's come at last o ! now Farewell my Maidenhead : This no longer shall torment me , Married State do's pleasant seem : Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . I was unstripped , to Bed I went , then came to me my sweet Bridegroom , After short time in laughter spent , our Friends did all depart the Room ; In his Arms he then embraced me , this did most delightful seem ; Yet Friends believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . His Arms was round my slender Waste , the pleasant Joys of Love did reap ; Ever I those pleasant Charms could taste alas ! I wakened from my Sleep : Would my Sleep had longer lasted , for it did most pleasant seem ; Youngmen believe me , it did grieve me , When I found it but a Dream . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 