THE Bonny SCOT : OR , The Yielding LASS . To and Excellent New Tune . This may be Printed , R . P . A S I sat at my Spinning-Wheel , a Bonny Lad there passed by , I keened him round , and I liked him weel , geud faith he had a Bonny Eye : My Heart new panting gan to feel , But still I turned my Spinning-Wheel . Most gracefully he did appear , As he my presence did draw near , And round about my slender Waste , He clasped his Arms and me embraced ; To Kiss my Hand he down did kneel , As I sat at my Spinning-Wheel . My Milkwhite Hand he did extal , And praised my Fingers long and small , And said there was no Lady fair , That ever could with me compare : Those pleasing words my Heart did steal , But still I turned my Spinning-Wheel . Although I seemingly did chide , Yet he would never de denied , But did declare his love the more , Until my Heart was wounded soar ; That I my love could scarce conceal , But yet I turned my Spinning-Wheel . As for my Yarn , my Rock and Reel , And after that my Spinning-Wheel , He bid me leave them all with speed , And gang with him to yonders Mead ; My panting Heart strange flames did feel , Yet still I turned my Spinning-Wheel . He stopped and gazed and blithely said , Now speed thee weel my bonny Maid But if thou [ ' ] st to the Hay-Cock go , I'll learn thee better Work I trow ; Geud Faith I liked him passing weel , But still I turned my Spinning-Wheel . He lowly veiled his Bonnet oft , And sweetly Kissed my Lips so soft , Yet still between each honey Kiss , He urged me gang to farther Bliss ; Till I resistless fire did feel , Then let alone my Spinning-Wheel . Among the pleasant Cocks of Hay , Then with my Bonny Lad I lay , What Damsel ever could deny , A Youth with such a Charming Eye : The Pleasure I cannot reveal , It far surpassed the Spinning-Wheel . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . THE Bonny SCOT : OR , The Yielding LASS . To and Excellent New Tune . This may be Printed , R . P . A S I sat at my Spinning-Wheel , a Bonny Lad there passed by , I keened him round , and I liked him weel , geud faith he had a Bonny Eye : My Heart new panting gan to feel , But still I turned my Spinning-Wheel . Most gracefully he did appear , As he my presence did draw near , And round about my slender Waste , He clasped his Arms and me embraced ; To Kiss my Hand he down did kneel , As I sat at my Spinning-Wheel . My Milkwhite Hand he did extal , And praised my Fingers long and small , And said there was no Lady fair , That ever could with me compare : Those pleasing words my Heart did steal , But still I turned my Spinning-Wheel . Although I seemingly did chide , Yet he would never de denied , But did declare his love the more , Until my Heart was wounded soar ; That I my love could scarce conceal , But yet I turned my Spinning-Wheel . As for my Yarn , my Rock and Reel , And after that my Spinning-Wheel , He bid me leave them all with speed , And gang with him to yonders Mead ; My panting Heart strange flames did feel , Yet still I turned my Spinning-Wheel . He stopped and gazed and blithely said , Now speed thee weel my bonny Maid But if thou [ ' ] st to the Hay-Cock go , I'll learn thee better Work I trow ; Geud Faith I liked him passing weel , But still I turned my Spinning-Wheel . He lowly veiled his Bonnet oft , And sweetly Kissed my Lips so soft , Yet still between each honey Kiss , He urged me gang to farther Bliss ; Till I resistless fire did feel , Then let alone my Spinning-Wheel . Among the pleasant Cocks of Hay , Then with my Bonny Lad I lay , What Damsel ever could deny , A Youth with such a Charming Eye : The Pleasure I cannot reveal , It far surpassed the Spinning-Wheel . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 