The Ladies Looking-Glass , OR THE Queen and the Cobbler . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed and Entered according to Order . A Queen beyond Seas did Command Princes , Earls , and Nobles all , And every Subject in her Land , every heart , both great and small : [ A ] ll did wonder at her Beauty , Virtues , and each pleasing Grace , And each Beauty , thought 'twas Duty , to admire her Charming Face . A Winged Wag , by chance there came to the Palace of the Queen , [ ( ] Which gentle Lovers Cupid name ) such and Archer never was seen ; He straight took his Golden Bow , and drew from thence a Fatal Dart ; Which never misses , for with Wishes , he can wound the greatest Heart . He hit this Queen , for ( Welladay ) she on Cupid then did call , Yet Fancied no Man fine and Gay , only a gentle Cobbler Tall : She that scorned a Princes Crown , and all her Nobles that did wait , Must now discover , though above her , the Cobbler now must be her Mate , A thousand thoughts perplex her Breast , [ and ] she Sighs in secret soar , At Night she cannot take her rest , she that knew no Love before : She oft tried to check the Passion , but she found it was in vain , Love came to her , and did Woo her , till she left off to complain . She then at last resolved to tell all her Nobles , that she'd choose A Prince for her self that near did dwell , which she thought they would refuse : They proclaimed her Praise and Fame , and vowed to her their Loyalty , That they ever , would endeavour , for to please her Majesty . The Cobbler then she sends for Post , while her Nobles wondering stand ; ( The Conquest Cupid well may boast ) for to him she gave her Hand : He amazed with Fear and Trouble , humbly falls down at her Feet , But at his Trouble , her Griefs double [ , ] till she gave him Kisses sweet . At length his Praises all they ring , and resolve for to Obey ; And all the Courtiers Presents bring , decked in Gold and rich Array : For the Triumph of the Marriage , all are Summoned to prepare , Then with Pleasure , and rich Treasure , all the Beauty's shined there . A Princely Son in time they had , with a Daughter wondrous fair ; That made the Realm and Nation glad , pleased and blessed beyond compare : He enjoyed his Father's Crown , and Reign [ ' ] worser in Honour , Wealth & amp ; Peace [ . ] Thus the Story , is before you , how his Glory did increase . Printed for J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce in Little Britain . The Ladies Looking-Glass , OR THE Queen and the Cobbler . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed and Entered according to Order . A Queen beyond Seas did Command Princes , Earls , and Nobles all , And every Subject in her Land , every heart , both great and small : [ A ] ll did wonder at her Beauty , Virtues , and each pleasing Grace , And each Beauty , thought 'twas Duty , to admire her Charming Face . A Winged Wag , by chance there came to the Palace of the Queen , [ ( ] Which gentle Lovers Cupid name ) such and Archer never was seen ; He straight took his Golden Bow , and drew from thence a Fatal Dart ; Which never misses , for with Wishes , he can wound the greatest Heart . He hit this Queen , for ( Welladay ) she on Cupid then did call , Yet Fancied no Man fine and Gay , only a gentle Cobbler Tall : She that scorned a Princes Crown , and all her Nobles that did wait , Must now discover , though above her , the Cobbler now must be her Mate , A thousand thoughts perplex her Breast , [ and ] she Sighs in secret soar , At Night she cannot take her rest , she that knew no Love before : She oft tried to check the Passion , but she found it was in vain , Love came to her , and did Woo her , till she left off to complain . She then at last resolved to tell all her Nobles , that she'd choose A Prince for her self that near did dwell , which she thought they would refuse : They proclaimed her Praise and Fame , and vowed to her their Loyalty , That they ever , would endeavour , for to please her Majesty . The Cobbler then she sends for Post , while her Nobles wondering stand ; ( The Conquest Cupid well may boast ) for to him she gave her Hand : He amazed with Fear and Trouble , humbly falls down at her Feet , But at his Trouble , her Griefs double [ , ] till she gave him Kisses sweet . At length his Praises all they ring , and resolve for to Obey ; And all the Courtiers Presents bring , decked in Gold and rich Array : For the Triumph of the Marriage , all are Summoned to prepare , Then with Pleasure , and rich Treasure , all the Beauty's shined there . A Princely Son in time they had , with a Daughter wondrous fair ; That made the Realm and Nation glad , pleased and blessed beyond compare : He enjoyed his Father's Crown , and Reign [ ' ] worser in Honour , Wealth & amp ; Peace [ . ] Thus the Story , is before you , how his Glory did increase . Printed for J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce in Little Britain . 