Joan's sorrowful Lamentation : OR , Falsehearted John's Unkindness to her , at her time of Distress . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . Licensed according to Order . C Ome hither sweet John , and let me discover , the Smiles of a Lover , A right honest Man I hope you will prove : For I love thee as life , And would fain be thy Wife , Remember thy Vow : Behold my Condition , You see my Condition , Love marry me now . Then John he replied , sweet Joan you must tarry , I mean not to marry , Why should I be tied to sorrow and noise ? I can live at my ease , And walk where I please , where Pleasures do flow ; But if I was married , But if I was married , I must not do so . I never will scold , my dearest believe me , ah ! why shouldst thou grieve me , Here's Silver and Gold , and pleasure my dear ; If to Love thou'lt incline , Thou shalt have what is mine , Remember thy Vow , You see my condition , You see my condition , Love marry me now John merrily smiled , with this pleasant Greeting , said he , my dear sweating , Why art thou with Child ? Yes Johnny she cried ; You remember the day We together did play upon the Hay-Mow , You see my Condition , You see my condition , Love marry me now . I tell you sweet Joan , thou hast no great reason , to sighs at this Season , Or make this sad moan for such a small Crime , This in vain to be sad , Rejoice and be glad , Let thanks be expressed , You'll now be a Mother , You'll now be a Mother , as well as the best . You laugh me to scorn , the which makes my trouble full seven times double , My Life is forlorn , ah ! where shall I go , You've forget what you swore . When you seemed to adore , my amorous Charms ; I wish I had never I wish I had never been clasped in thy Arms. Pray where's the harm done if you have hereafter , a pretty sweet Daughter , Or tattling Son to dandle about ? Yes Dearest , she cried , If I might be thy Bride , my Joys would remain , I should have no reason , I should , etc sweet John to complain . Before I would yield , what Vows did you make me , you'd never forsake me , And Love you'd revealed , ah ! have you forgotten , How you swore by your Life I should soon be your Wife , come think on this John , And now let me find you , And now let me find you , a right honest Man. Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Joan's sorrowful Lamentation : OR , Falsehearted John's Unkindness to her , at her time of Distress . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . Licensed according to Order . C Ome hither sweet John , and let me discover , the Smiles of a Lover , A right honest Man I hope you will prove : For I love thee as life , And would fain be thy Wife , Remember thy Vow : Behold my Condition , You see my Condition , Love marry me now . Then John he replied , sweet Joan you must tarry , I mean not to marry , Why should I be tied to sorrow and noise ? I can live at my ease , And walk where I please , where Pleasures do flow ; But if I was married , But if I was married , I must not do so . I never will scold , my dearest believe me , ah ! why shouldst thou grieve me , Here's Silver and Gold , and pleasure my dear ; If to Love thou'lt incline , Thou shalt have what is mine , Remember thy Vow , You see my condition , You see my condition , Love marry me now John merrily smiled , with this pleasant Greeting , said he , my dear sweating , Why art thou with Child ? Yes Johnny she cried ; You remember the day We together did play upon the Hay-Mow , You see my Condition , You see my condition , Love marry me now . I tell you sweet Joan , thou hast no great reason , to sighs at this Season , Or make this sad moan for such a small Crime , This in vain to be sad , Rejoice and be glad , Let thanks be expressed , You'll now be a Mother , You'll now be a Mother , as well as the best . You laugh me to scorn , the which makes my trouble full seven times double , My Life is forlorn , ah ! where shall I go , You've forget what you swore . When you seemed to adore , my amorous Charms ; I wish I had never I wish I had never been clasped in thy Arms. Pray where's the harm done if you have hereafter , a pretty sweet Daughter , Or tattling Son to dandle about ? Yes Dearest , she cried , If I might be thy Bride , my Joys would remain , I should have no reason , I should , etc sweet John to complain . Before I would yield , what Vows did you make me , you'd never forsake me , And Love you'd revealed , ah ! have you forgotten , How you swore by your Life I should soon be your Wife , come think on this John , And now let me find you , And now let me find you , a right honest Man. Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 