The Modest Bachelor ; And , The Beautiful Virgin . Set to a Pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . O Ne-ly tell her , only tell her , only tell her that I love ; Leave the rest to Fate , and Fortune , she at last more kind may prove : Some kind Pla - - net perhaps may move her , for to cast a Tender-Eye ; Why ? O why ? should I give oh -- ver ? she's too good to let me Die . L Ove has oft tormenting fear , all his Chains we must endure ; To my grief , she may give Ear , and at length ( in pity ) cure , Windy-sighs will Fan the fire , to so pure , and bright a flame , That each Lover will admire , and extol her beauteous name , By her own Immortal power , by the Roses , in her Cheek , By the Mirtle-Grove , and Bower , ( where true pleasure , Lovers seek , ) Only she is worth possessing , only she ( I think ) Divine , Venus grant me then , this blessing , that , the only , may be mine . Have you seen her charming Beauty ? ( like the Blossoms , fair and sweet , ) Have you seen , how all with duty , fallen down prostrate at her feet ? Have you seen how Stars withdraw ? and twinkle at the Morning light , So poor Lovers stand in awe , amazed with beams so wondrous bright . Thousand Cupids round her hover , play and Revel in her Eyes , Blessed and happy is the Lover , that enjoys so rich a Prize , When the charms of beauty's tasted it's the sweetest in it's prime , Blooming-youth , should not be wasted , for it fades in little time . By the Law of tender Nature , no fair beauty should be coy , There is neither Face nor Feature , but , ( by right , ) we should enjoy , Beauty , always , should breed Beauty , not lie all alone each Night ; To be kind , is Maidens Duty , Maids were made for men Delight . Marble , by the Rain , relents , can a Beauty then so fair ? Be a Fury , that torments , must I Die , and quite Despair ? Oh! sweet Nymph , be not so cruel , it's and easy thing to Love : Grant me then your Heart , ( that Jewel , ) I'll not envy Jove above . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain ; Where Country - Chapman , and others , may be Furnished with all sorts of Old and New Small Books and Ballads , at Reasonable Rates . The Modest Bachelor ; And , The Beautiful Virgin . Set to a Pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . O Ne-ly tell her , only tell her , only tell her that I love ; Leave the rest to Fate , and Fortune , she at last more kind may prove : Some kind Pla - - net perhaps may move her , for to cast a Tender-Eye ; Why ? O why ? should I give oh -- ver ? she's too good to let me Die . L Ove has oft tormenting fear , all his Chains we must endure ; To my grief , she may give Ear , and at length ( in pity ) cure , Windy-sighs will Fan the fire , to so pure , and bright a flame , That each Lover will admire , and extol her beauteous name , By her own Immortal power , by the Roses , in her Cheek , By the Mirtle-Grove , and Bower , ( where true pleasure , Lovers seek , ) Only she is worth possessing , only she ( I think ) Divine , Venus grant me then , this blessing , that , the only , may be mine . Have you seen her charming Beauty ? ( like the Blossoms , fair and sweet , ) Have you seen , how all with duty , fallen down prostrate at her feet ? Have you seen how Stars withdraw ? and twinkle at the Morning light , So poor Lovers stand in awe , amazed with beams so wondrous bright . Thousand Cupids round her hover , play and Revel in her Eyes , Blessed and happy is the Lover , that enjoys so rich a Prize , When the charms of beauty's tasted it's the sweetest in it's prime , Blooming-youth , should not be wasted , for it fades in little time . By the Law of tender Nature , no fair beauty should be coy , There is neither Face nor Feature , but , ( by right , ) we should enjoy , Beauty , always , should breed Beauty , not lie all alone each Night ; To be kind , is Maidens Duty , Maids were made for men Delight . Marble , by the Rain , relents , can a Beauty then so fair ? Be a Fury , that torments , must I Die , and quite Despair ? Oh! sweet Nymph , be not so cruel , it's and easy thing to Love : Grant me then your Heart , ( that Jewel , ) I'll not envy Jove above . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain ; Where Country - Chapman , and others , may be Furnished with all sorts of Old and New Small Books and Ballads , at Reasonable Rates . 