Doctor Experience's excellent Advice to the VIRGINS : Or , And Infallible way to get good Husbands . Maidens , peruse these lines and you will find A speedy way to make the men grow kind ; You that good husbands want , it's in your power To hook them to you almost in and h [ our ] Take these directions & amp ; you cannot m [ is ] Safe to arrive at Loves intirest bliss . Tune of , Oxfordshire Damosel . This may be printed . R. P. Y Ou Maidens all that would be wise , come harken to my story , And take betimes my kind advice , before you loose your glory . Coyness though men often blame , does gain us love and honour , She that's o're-fond does loose her fame , while none will dote upon her . It's some that overlavish are of that which is their treasure , That makes men for us little care , while all by one they measure : In days of old I must confess that short was happy wooing , And all out Grandams still do bless what is not long a doing . But they that in the days of Yore met with men kind and constant , Do little think how time has wore them to be false and wanton : They come unto us stuffed with praise , and cunningly do flatter , And try our love a thousand ways until our chaps do water . Until they find our loves are strong , they feed us up with fancies , Toying with us all the day long , and leading us night-dances . At Ball and Play and merriment they willing are to treat us , And swear they will in all content , and never never cheat us . And thus while we hold out the Siege they are the most obliging , In e'ry thing they will oblige while they're our Forts besieging ; But when upon a parley we are kindly too believing , Oh then they use their tyranny , and are the most deceiving . Be wise you maidens then that would be loved and not forsaken , She that unto her Arms well stood was never never taken ; Oh stand your guard you maids , that would in love be happy , Baffle Novices and Blades , and let no Youngster trap you . Be coy when they are pressing on , and frown them at a distance , When they pretend to sighs and moan do you make most resistance ; The thing that's hardest to be god is ever most desired : That Lover soonest is your lot that in deep passion's mired . A man that has been hunger-fed thinks any thing a dainty : Who's from a barren Island led , thinks scarcy land's a plenty . Be wise you lasses then be wise , and too much fondness banish , And men not more will tyrannise , their falsehoods all will vanish . He who thought to catch you then himself will be beguiling : The certain bait for to catch men is frowning and not smiling : It's coyness and denial gains , it's that will do or nothing ; To love they're constant in their chains , but being freed are loathing . B e wise you Lasses then be wise , be coy though you dissemble , To glance such beams prepare your eyes , as makes a Lover tremble , It's this will gain your desire . and make Loves flame burn lighter ; B y this you'll see Loves glowing fire in men's breasts burn more brighter . Printed for J Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. passenger . Doctor Experience's excellent Advice to the VIRGINS : Or , And Infallible way to get good Husbands . Maidens , peruse these lines and you will find A speedy way to make the men grow kind ; You that good husbands want , it's in your power To hook them to you almost in and h [ our ] Take these directions & amp ; you cannot m [ is ] Safe to arrive at Loves intirest bliss . Tune of , Oxfordshire Damosel . This may be printed . R. P. Y Ou Maidens all that would be wise , come harken to my story , And take betimes my kind advice , before you loose your glory . Coyness though men often blame , does gain us love and honour , She that's o're-fond does loose her fame , while none will dote upon her . It's some that overlavish are of that which is their treasure , That makes men for us little care , while all by one they measure : In days of old I must confess that short was happy wooing , And all out Grandams still do bless what is not long a doing . But they that in the days of Yore met with men kind and constant , Do little think how time has wore them to be false and wanton : They come unto us stuffed with praise , and cunningly do flatter , And try our love a thousand ways until our chaps do water . Until they find our loves are strong , they feed us up with fancies , Toying with us all the day long , and leading us night-dances . At Ball and Play and merriment they willing are to treat us , And swear they will in all content , and never never cheat us . And thus while we hold out the Siege they are the most obliging , In e'ry thing they will oblige while they're our Forts besieging ; But when upon a parley we are kindly too believing , Oh then they use their tyranny , and are the most deceiving . Be wise you maidens then that would be loved and not forsaken , She that unto her Arms well stood was never never taken ; Oh stand your guard you maids , that would in love be happy , Baffle Novices and Blades , and let no Youngster trap you . Be coy when they are pressing on , and frown them at a distance , When they pretend to sighs and moan do you make most resistance ; The thing that's hardest to be god is ever most desired : That Lover soonest is your lot that in deep passion's mired . A man that has been hunger-fed thinks any thing a dainty : Who's from a barren Island led , thinks scarcy land's a plenty . Be wise you lasses then be wise , and too much fondness banish , And men not more will tyrannise , their falsehoods all will vanish . He who thought to catch you then himself will be beguiling : The certain bait for to catch men is frowning and not smiling : It's coyness and denial gains , it's that will do or nothing ; To love they're constant in their chains , but being freed are loathing . B e wise you Lasses then be wise , be coy though you dissemble , To glance such beams prepare your eyes , as makes a Lover tremble , It's this will gain your desire . and make Loves flame burn lighter ; B y this you'll see Loves glowing fire in men's breasts burn more brighter . Printed for J Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. passenger . 