Loves Conquest ; OR , The Powerful force of Beauties Charms Being a most delightful New play Song . Loves power , no power on Earth could ever withstand His great Dominions over Sea , and Land , The fiery God of War lays by his arms And does submit to Venus , softer charms , Over all on Earth he has his Conquest made , Heaven feels his force which must be still obeyed . To the Tune of ; Now ! Now the fight's done , Or Digbyes Farewell . N Owe , now the Fight's done the great god of War lies sleeping in shades & amp ; fast closing his eyes Love laughs at his rest and soldiers Alarms He Drums and he trumpets and struts in his arms , He rides on his Lance and the bushes he bangs , And his broad bloody sword on the Willow tree hangs . Love smiles when he feels the shurp [ p ] oint of his dart And he wings it to hit the grim god in the heart , Who leaves his Steel bed and Bolsters of Brass , For Pillows of roses , and Couc [ h ] es of Grass , His courser of lightning is now grown so slow That a Cupid i'th Saddle sits bending his bow . Love , Love is the cry love and kisses go round Till Phiil [ u ] s and Damon lie clasped on the ground , The Shepherd too quick does her pleasure destroy [ ? ] is abortive she cries and he murders my joy But he rallies again by the forces of her charms And kills [ ? ] es and dies in her arms , Till she with soft sighs and her fragrant breath Revives the great warrior from loves pleasing death And with such brigt glances as beams from her eyes , She fires his soul with fresh vigors which rise , From the sense of delight and the Ocean of bliss , That flows from her lips when she charms with a kiss Oh! her power's too great for his arms to withstand , His conquests are yielded up at her command , She rules he dread fury and wildness in War And wins all his trophies without Sword or Spear , While tamely he bows nor has power to resist When such pointed beauty does enter the list . Oh! the bloody fields now neglected must lie While loves sweeter combat the Warrior will try Though sure to be conquered and put to the foil When once the winged god has him fast in his toil , So panting between the two hills of white snow While that from loves fountain all pleasures do flow . The second Part , to the same Tune . Such Streams of delight which I dare not relate lest wounded with passion I feel the same fate , Till tired with bliss he is forced to retreat Like a Soldier that storms from the wall often be [ at ] . For who with soft Venus can hold out the fight And not be reaved of all his great might . Love , love is the power that a conquest will gain All Armour and weapons against it are vain , The conquering Caesar whom earth did obey To Egypts fair Queen his love homage did pay , To the force of her eyes and her Angel bright face His conquests his Trophies and honours gave place . So strong the sm [ a ] ll god has his golden shafts made , That where they hit there his commands he has laid Each Cheek where the roses and Lilies do grow Are the aims against which he does bend his great bow Then his winged Arrows that sing he lets fly While panting o'th ground the fair beauty does lie . And Struggles in pangs which so pleasing do prove That she sighs O i'm wounded yet wounds like these love Looks cheerful & amp ; joys though loves captive she be And in strict embraces does count her self free . Oh! the ravishing transports that wait on loves throne The new joys that are blooming when old ones are gone From Ruby lips whence sweet Necture does flow From eyes with star twinkles and blushes that glow On the Rosy fair Cheeks which bashfully rise , When in her dear's Arms the coy Virgin she lies , Yet sighing desires what she seems to withstand , And often loves Sceptre she takes in her hand . Ah then seems to tremble and start as afraid And cries I alas unto love am betrayed Yet faintly she cries and with pleasure renewed Soon stifles that found and her fear is subdued Then bolder she grows till her Lover does yield To the force of her charms & amp ; retreats from loves field . London , Printed for . F. Coal . T. Vere . J. Wright J. Clark . W . Thackery and T. PassengerLoves Conquest ; OR , The Powerful force of Beauties Charms Being a most delightful New play Song . Loves power , no power on Earth could ever withstand His great Dominions over Sea , and Land , The fiery God of War lays by his arms And does submit to Venus , softer charms , Over all on Earth he has his Conquest made , Heaven feels his force which must be still obeyed . To the Tune of ; Now ! Now the fight's done , Or Digbyes Farewell . N Owe , now the Fight's done the great god of War lies sleeping in shades & amp ; fast closing his eyes Love laughs at his rest and soldiers Alarms He Drums and he trumpets and struts in his arms , He rides on his Lance and the bushes he bangs , And his broad bloody sword on the Willow tree hangs . Love smiles when he feels the shurp [ p ] oint of his dart And he wings it to hit the grim god in the heart , Who leaves his Steel bed and Bolsters of Brass , For Pillows of roses , and Couc [ h ] es of Grass , His courser of lightning is now grown so slow That a Cupid i'th Saddle sits bending his bow . Love , Love is the cry love and kisses go round Till Phiil [ u ] s and Damon lie clasped on the ground , The Shepherd too quick does her pleasure destroy [ ? ] is abortive she cries and he murders my joy But he rallies again by the forces of her charms And kills [ ? ] es and dies in her arms , Till she with soft sighs and her fragrant breath Revives the great warrior from loves pleasing death And with such brigt glances as beams from her eyes , She fires his soul with fresh vigors which rise , From the sense of delight and the Ocean of bliss , That flows from her lips when she charms with a kiss Oh! her power's too great for his arms to withstand , His conquests are yielded up at her command , She rules he dread fury and wildness in War And wins all his trophies without Sword or Spear , While tamely he bows nor has power to resist When such pointed beauty does enter the list . Oh! the bloody fields now neglected must lie While loves sweeter combat the Warrior will try Though sure to be conquered and put to the foil When once the winged god has him fast in his toil , So panting between the two hills of white snow While that from loves fountain all pleasures do flow . The second Part , to the same Tune . Such Streams of delight which I dare not relate lest wounded with passion I feel the same fate , Till tired with bliss he is forced to retreat Like a Soldier that storms from the wall often be [ at ] . For who with soft Venus can hold out the fight And not be reaved of all his great might . Love , love is the power that a conquest will gain All Armour and weapons against it are vain , The conquering Caesar whom earth did obey To Egypts fair Queen his love homage did pay , To the force of her eyes and her Angel bright face His conquests his Trophies and honours gave place . So strong the sm [ a ] ll god has his golden shafts made , That where they hit there his commands he has laid Each Cheek where the roses and Lilies do grow Are the aims against which he does bend his great bow Then his winged Arrows that sing he lets fly While panting o'th ground the fair beauty does lie . And Struggles in pangs which so pleasing do prove That she sighs O i'm wounded yet wounds like these love Looks cheerful & amp ; joys though loves captive she be And in strict embraces does count her self free . Oh! the ravishing transports that wait on loves throne The new joys that are blooming when old ones are gone From Ruby lips whence sweet Necture does flow From eyes with star twinkles and blushes that glow On the Rosy fair Cheeks which bashfully rise , When in her dear's Arms the coy Virgin she lies , Yet sighing desires what she seems to withstand , And often loves Sceptre she takes in her hand . Ah then seems to tremble and start as afraid And cries I alas unto love am betrayed Yet faintly she cries and with pleasure renewed Soon stifles that found and her fear is subdued Then bolder she grows till her Lover does yield To the force of her charms & amp ; retreats from loves field . London , Printed for . F. Coal . T. Vere . J. Wright J. Clark . W . Thackery and T. Passenger 