A Serious Discourse between two Lovers . This Song will teach young Men to woo , And show young Maidens what to do ; Nay it will learn them to be cunning too , To the Tune of , When Sol will cast no Light , Or , Deep in Love . J. Wade . M Y pretty little Rogue do but come hither , With thee I'll not collogue , if thou [ ' ] lt consider , The pains for thee I've took , Cupid so wounded me , But now I'm in the Brook , if thou dost not love me . I'll forsake all my Kin , Father and Mother I valve not a Pin , or any other , It's only thy sweet face , the which does move me . And I think thou hast some grace , and thouled love me . Riches I'll promise none , nor no great Treasure , Because I'll do no wrong , to thee my Pleasure ; But all that ever I have thou shalt command it , A and I'll maintain thee brave , thou'st understand it . My Word nor yet my Oath shall not be broken . Then take this sugared kiss in sign of Love's Token . My heart is firm and true , then let pity move thee , I'll not seek for a new , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . G Ood Sir I thank you fine for what is spoken , B ut all's not gold that shines , and as for your token , I shall not it receive , though you do prove me , My joy thou'lt never bereave , for I cannot love thee . Young men can swear and lie , but who will believe them , All goodness they defy , and it never grieves them . Only to tempt a Maid by their delusion , Therefore I am afraid it'll breed confusion . A M aid had need beware that does mean honest , Lest she fallen in a snare , when they do promise ; For they'le vow and sware they'le never leave you , B ut when they know your mind , then they'le deceive you . Therefore I will be wise , lest I be taken In a fools Paradise , and then be forsaken , I'll put no trust in man to one or other , Let them do what they can , ifed were my brother . The Man. My Dear you do but jest , I may boldly speak it , Of all I love thee best , prithee so take it , There is no flesh alive , ever shall move me ; If thou wilt be my wife , I'll dearly love thee . Servants on thee shall tend , and come at thy pleasure , For I will be thy friend , to bring thee Treasure . What canst thee wish for more ? then do but prove me , A and thou shalt plainly find how dear I love thee . For means thou shalt not want , if I do gain thee . I have good house and land , for to maintain thee . I have good Sheep i'th field , and Beasts that's proving , All is at thy command , if thou'lt be loving . I'll give thee gold my Dear , I'll give thee Money , Then thou needs not to fear , I'll be thy honey . No Lady in the Land , ever shall move me . Thou'lt have my heart and hand , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . Your words are very fair , I much commend you , Seeing you are so rare , thus I'll befriend you . Though at first I was Coy 'twas but to prove thee , Yet now I'll be thy joy , and dearly love thee , The Young man hearing this , by the hand took her , The bargain sealed with a kiss , he never forsook her , But straight to Church they went , things were so carried , He gave his Love content , when they was married Thus all young Maids may find , young men are honest If they bear the like mind , true to their promise . But if they falsify , who can believe them , And when they have lost their Loves then it does grieve them . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . A Serious Discourse between two Lovers . This Song will teach young Men to woo , And show young Maidens what to do ; Nay it will learn them to be cunning too , To the Tune of , When Sol will cast no Light , Or , Deep in Love . J. Wade . M Y pretty little Rogue do but come hither , With thee I'll not collogue , if thou [ ' ] lt consider , The pains for thee I've took , Cupid so wounded me , But now I'm in the Brook , if thou dost not love me . I'll forsake all my Kin , Father and Mother I valve not a Pin , or any other , It's only thy sweet face , the which does move me . And I think thou hast some grace , and thouled love me . Riches I'll promise none , nor no great Treasure , Because I'll do no wrong , to thee my Pleasure ; But all that ever I have thou shalt command it , A and I'll maintain thee brave , thou'st understand it . My Word nor yet my Oath shall not be broken . Then take this sugared kiss in sign of Love's Token . My heart is firm and true , then let pity move thee , I'll not seek for a new , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . G Ood Sir I thank you fine for what is spoken , B ut all's not gold that shines , and as for your token , I shall not it receive , though you do prove me , My joy thou'lt never bereave , for I cannot love thee . Young men can swear and lie , but who will believe them , All goodness they defy , and it never grieves them . Only to tempt a Maid by their delusion , Therefore I am afraid it'll breed confusion . A M aid had need beware that does mean honest , Lest she fallen in a snare , when they do promise ; For they'le vow and sware they'le never leave you , B ut when they know your mind , then they'le deceive you . Therefore I will be wise , lest I be taken In a fools Paradise , and then be forsaken , I'll put no trust in man to one or other , Let them do what they can , ifed were my brother . The Man. My Dear you do but jest , I may boldly speak it , Of all I love thee best , prithee so take it , There is no flesh alive , ever shall move me ; If thou wilt be my wife , I'll dearly love thee . Servants on thee shall tend , and come at thy pleasure , For I will be thy friend , to bring thee Treasure . What canst thee wish for more ? then do but prove me , A and thou shalt plainly find how dear I love thee . For means thou shalt not want , if I do gain thee . I have good house and land , for to maintain thee . I have good Sheep i'th field , and Beasts that's proving , All is at thy command , if thou'lt be loving . I'll give thee gold my Dear , I'll give thee Money , Then thou needs not to fear , I'll be thy honey . No Lady in the Land , ever shall move me . Thou'lt have my heart and hand , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . Your words are very fair , I much commend you , Seeing you are so rare , thus I'll befriend you . Though at first I was Coy 'twas but to prove thee , Yet now I'll be thy joy , and dearly love thee , The Young man hearing this , by the hand took her , The bargain sealed with a kiss , he never forsook her , But straight to Church they went , things were so carried , He gave his Love content , when they was married Thus all young Maids may find , young men are honest If they bear the like mind , true to their promise . But if they falsify , who can believe them , And when they have lost their Loves then it does grieve them . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 