Loves fortune . OR , A fainthearted Soldier will never win the Field . The Youngman's good fortune in wooing his Love : She was Rich , and he but poor , And she vowed she never would love him more , Yet Day and Night he took great pain , And for to love her once again . Tune is , Sweet come love me once again . W alking most early in a morning fair , I herd a youngman thus did say , Oh how do I live in despair , for her that's sweeter than the May : But I will to her once again , to see if she'l me entertain , With kisses sweet I will her greet . and for to love me once again . Sweetheart , said he , tell me thy mind , why thou shouldst thus hardhearted be : Or why wilt thou prove thus unkind to him that is so true to thee . But for my part , I'm Royal in my heart , and evermore will so remain ; Sweet kill not me with disloyalty , but vow to love me once again . Kind Sir I thank you for your love , but you are very much to blame , To seek my thoughts thus for to prove , pish fie away be gone for shame . For many a maid hath been betrayed , therefore in love I pray give over , Hands off be gone , let me alone , for I vow I never will love thee more . Alas dear love some pity take on me that loves you so entire ; My life lies bound unto a stake , let me not burn in Cupids Fire : My heart so free in loving thee , blind Cupid hath my senses taken : Some pity move my dearest love , and now , etc Content thy self love say no more , for sure thou art no match for me , My Parents Rich and thine but poor , and that may cause great misery : And thus I'll say both night and day , a single life I'll never give over , Therefore be gone , let me alone , for I vow I'll never love thee more . O be content my dearest love , on worldly means set not thy mind , Though thou be Rich and I but poor , Oh be not thou to me unkind . No pains i'll Spare , but take great care , thee for to please i'll take great pain ; Be not unkind but change thy mind , and now come love me once again , Kind Sir , I thank you for your love , and for the pains that you would take ; My mind you never can remove , I pray you choose some other mate : For words are but wind & amp ; may prove unkind , therefore leave off I pray give over ; To live with thee i'll not combine for I vow i'll never love thee more . Hard hap had I set my love on one that cares so small for me , No hope's have I but from above , to change thy mind and fancy me ; But yet I stand at thy command , sweet kill not me with coy disdain , Some pity take and answer make , that thou wilt love me again . Sweet come tell me ( if thou can ) the best way now this same to carry , If I should yield both heart and hand , to be thy Bride and for to marry : For friends and kindreds love to get , or surely it may breed great pain , Procure the same , i'll thee respect , I vow to love thee once again . My dearest dear take thou no care , but mark the words that I do say , What lies in me I will not spare , if thou wilt love and fancy me . Let Father frown , let Mother chide , a heart that's true will never stain , Come life or death i'll stick to thee , if thou wilt love me once again . The Maid . Five hundred pound my portion is , and all this on thee I will bestow , With heart and hand take here this kiss , thou art my own and shall be so : Come wealth or woe with thee i'll go , through England , Scotland , France or Spain Cupid hath told me it must be so , and I vow to love thee once again . All you true Lovers that hear this Song , let this to you a pattern be : Seek not your true Love for to wrong , neither for Gold nor yet for fee . He is my delight both day and night , true love is worth a Golden Chain , All you true Lovers is this not right , to grant true love for love again . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Loves fortune . OR , A fainthearted Soldier will never win the Field . The Youngman's good fortune in wooing his Love : She was Rich , and he but poor , And she vowed she never would love him more , Yet Day and Night he took great pain , And for to love her once again . Tune is , Sweet come love me once again . W alking most early in a morning fair , I herd a youngman thus did say , Oh how do I live in despair , for her that's sweeter than the May : But I will to her once again , to see if she'l me entertain , With kisses sweet I will her greet . and for to love me once again . Sweetheart , said he , tell me thy mind , why thou shouldst thus hardhearted be : Or why wilt thou prove thus unkind to him that is so true to thee . But for my part , I'm Royal in my heart , and evermore will so remain ; Sweet kill not me with disloyalty , but vow to love me once again . Kind Sir I thank you for your love , but you are very much to blame , To seek my thoughts thus for to prove , pish fie away be gone for shame . For many a maid hath been betrayed , therefore in love I pray give over , Hands off be gone , let me alone , for I vow I never will love thee more . Alas dear love some pity take on me that loves you so entire ; My life lies bound unto a stake , let me not burn in Cupids Fire : My heart so free in loving thee , blind Cupid hath my senses taken : Some pity move my dearest love , and now , etc Content thy self love say no more , for sure thou art no match for me , My Parents Rich and thine but poor , and that may cause great misery : And thus I'll say both night and day , a single life I'll never give over , Therefore be gone , let me alone , for I vow I'll never love thee more . O be content my dearest love , on worldly means set not thy mind , Though thou be Rich and I but poor , Oh be not thou to me unkind . No pains i'll Spare , but take great care , thee for to please i'll take great pain ; Be not unkind but change thy mind , and now come love me once again , Kind Sir , I thank you for your love , and for the pains that you would take ; My mind you never can remove , I pray you choose some other mate : For words are but wind & amp ; may prove unkind , therefore leave off I pray give over ; To live with thee i'll not combine for I vow i'll never love thee more . Hard hap had I set my love on one that cares so small for me , No hope's have I but from above , to change thy mind and fancy me ; But yet I stand at thy command , sweet kill not me with coy disdain , Some pity take and answer make , that thou wilt love me again . Sweet come tell me ( if thou can ) the best way now this same to carry , If I should yield both heart and hand , to be thy Bride and for to marry : For friends and kindreds love to get , or surely it may breed great pain , Procure the same , i'll thee respect , I vow to love thee once again . My dearest dear take thou no care , but mark the words that I do say , What lies in me I will not spare , if thou wilt love and fancy me . Let Father frown , let Mother chide , a heart that's true will never stain , Come life or death i'll stick to thee , if thou wilt love me once again . The Maid . Five hundred pound my portion is , and all this on thee I will bestow , With heart and hand take here this kiss , thou art my own and shall be so : Come wealth or woe with thee i'll go , through England , Scotland , France or Spain Cupid hath told me it must be so , and I vow to love thee once again . All you true Lovers that hear this Song , let this to you a pattern be : Seek not your true Love for to wrong , neither for Gold nor yet for fee . He is my delight both day and night , true love is worth a Golden Chain , All you true Lovers is this not right , to grant true love for love again . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 