Grist ground at Last . OR , The Frolic in the Mill. Millers that grind each pretty Lasses Grist , Consider now how many you have kissed : And see if any with kind Molly can Compare : if not , pray all from hence be gone . Yet stay and hear the Song , it's rare and new ; And Millers know such things are often true . Tune of , Give ear a while , etc or , Winchester wedding . G Ive ear a while to my Ditty , all you that intend to be merry , I'll sing you a song that's witty , of which you will never be weary : The matter I plain must tell you , is of a conceit re [ f ] ined , The pretty device of Molly , who has so often been kind : Says old Symon the King , says old Symon the King , With a threadbare Cloak and a mamsy Nose , sing heigh ding , ding , a ding , ding . She went to the Mill with her Grist , to see it most neatly ground , But found the Miller i'th' Missed , for his stones they would not go round . He tried , and he tried again , but he could not make them obey ; His labour he lost in vain , and could not tell what to say : Says old Symon the King , says old Symon the King , With a threadbare Cloak and a mamsy nose , sing heigh ding , ding , a ding , ding . She takes the matter in hand as loath of any delay , While the Miller amazed did stand , she thus unto him did say : Come hoist up the Canvas with speed , and I'l make the Stones go round ; The Cogs from Cobwebs once freed , my Grist will quickly be ground : Says old Symon the King , says old Symon the King , With a threadbare Cloak and a mamsy Nose , sing heigh ding ding a ding ding . Then strait the sails were drawn up , exposed to the weather and wind ; When as the Miller a top , the weather-vein right did find ; Yet found the motion but small , which made him begin to misdoubt , That he should do nothing at all , for Molly began to pout : Says old Symon etc But urging her Grist to be ground , the fault she long searched to know , And the Vice of the Mill she found , for why ? the Stones were too low ; Then gently she moved the Beam , and settled them in their place , When round the sails did skim , and her Grist was ground apace . Says old Symon etc More Sacks on the Mill was the cry , let's now work and save the wind ; But at last the Miller lay by , he had no more Grist to grind : But glad was to find one so witty to help him out at a dead lift , Swearing that none so pretty had ever set his Mill adrift : Says old Symon etc Her Grist she had Tole-free away , & amp ; might have the like when she pleased For the Miller he never said her nay , since his labour was mightily eased : The Lasses that came to the Mill , they envied poor Molly it's true ; But let them say all what they will , Molly's the best of the Crew : Says old Symon the King , says old Symon the King , With a threadbare Cloak and a mamsy Nose , sing heigh ding ding a ding ding . F I N I S. Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Grist ground at Last . OR , The Frolic in the Mill. Millers that grind each pretty Lasses Grist , Consider now how many you have kissed : And see if any with kind Molly can Compare : if not , pray all from hence be gone . Yet stay and hear the Song , it's rare and new ; And Millers know such things are often true . Tune of , Give ear a while , etc or , Winchester wedding . G Ive ear a while to my Ditty , all you that intend to be merry , I'll sing you a song that's witty , of which you will never be weary : The matter I plain must tell you , is of a conceit re [ f ] ined , The pretty device of Molly , who has so often been kind : Says old Symon the King , says old Symon the King , With a threadbare Cloak and a mamsy Nose , sing heigh ding , ding , a ding , ding . She went to the Mill with her Grist , to see it most neatly ground , But found the Miller i'th' Missed , for his stones they would not go round . He tried , and he tried again , but he could not make them obey ; His labour he lost in vain , and could not tell what to say : Says old Symon the King , says old Symon the King , With a threadbare Cloak and a mamsy nose , sing heigh ding , ding , a ding , ding . She takes the matter in hand as loath of any delay , While the Miller amazed did stand , she thus unto him did say : Come hoist up the Canvas with speed , and I'l make the Stones go round ; The Cogs from Cobwebs once freed , my Grist will quickly be ground : Says old Symon the King , says old Symon the King , With a threadbare Cloak and a mamsy Nose , sing heigh ding ding a ding ding . Then strait the sails were drawn up , exposed to the weather and wind ; When as the Miller a top , the weather-vein right did find ; Yet found the motion but small , which made him begin to misdoubt , That he should do nothing at all , for Molly began to pout : Says old Symon etc But urging her Grist to be ground , the fault she long searched to know , And the Vice of the Mill she found , for why ? the Stones were too low ; Then gently she moved the Beam , and settled them in their place , When round the sails did skim , and her Grist was ground apace . Says old Symon etc More Sacks on the Mill was the cry , let's now work and save the wind ; But at last the Miller lay by , he had no more Grist to grind : But glad was to find one so witty to help him out at a dead lift , Swearing that none so pretty had ever set his Mill adrift : Says old Symon etc Her Grist she had Tole-free away , & amp ; might have the like when she pleased For the Miller he never said her nay , since his labour was mightily eased : The Lasses that came to the Mill , they envied poor Molly it's true ; But let them say all what they will , Molly's the best of the Crew : Says old Symon the King , says old Symon the King , With a threadbare Cloak and a mamsy Nose , sing heigh ding ding a ding ding . F I N I S. Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 