The Amorous Petitioner , This Maiden she in great distress to Cupid made her moan , And said her life was comfortless while thus she lived alone . Tune of , Cloris full of harmless thought , Young Phaon , Busy Fame , or the Lantern Horns grow dim . A S I did lately walk ab [ r ] oad to view the Meadows green , Not thinking to be overheard nor hardly to be seen . For 'twas before the Suns bright beams had banished darksome night , At length he shined in extremes , which did my heart delight . among the Violets there I sat and to my self thus said , I doubtless am unfortunate a poor and helpless maid . There's none that pities my distress nor minds my grievous moan , But here I fit quite comfortless [ l ] amentng all alone , Oh! Cupid on me pity take , and hear my sad complaint , Oh! quickly help me to a mate now I am like to faint . How can it choose but grieve me soar that can no bliss enjoy . While other maids have Sweethearts store , o ! hear me gentle boy . Let me not be above the rest unhappy by my Birth , Rather than thus to live oppressed turn me again to earth . For I no longer can endure nor led a Life like this , It is three months at least I'm sure since I have had one kiss . Then grant me my Petition , or I certainly shall die , My Life already I abhor , thou knowest the reason why . And it's because like others I cannot enjoy a man , But still in flames I burn and fry let me do what I can . As thus she to her self did talk beneath the Myrtle Tree , A youngman chanced that way to walk that lately came from Sea And viewing well this maiden fair her beauty pleased his eye , So he was soon caught in a snare and traped immediately . His heart that stubborn was before , now was compelled to yield , And Cupid wounded him full soar while beauty gained the field . What sudden change is this said he that I do meet withal , What must I leave my liberty and change it for a thrall . Well since it can no better be I needs must be content , And no more hope for to live free , so to this Maid he went . Sweetheart said he , a wonder strange to you I will relate , And my condition I will change if thou wilt be my mate . I traveled both by Sea and Land , and never could meet before That beauty that could me command , but thee I must adore . And if thou dost my Suit deny i'm ruined and undone , But now my dearest I comply , for thou my heart hast wone . She with a blushing smile replied , you men so false do prove , That we poor maids are terrified , and know not who to love . But if thou constant wilt remain as I will be to thee , Thou shalt not go to Sea again , but live and die with me . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere , J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery and T. Passenger . The Amorous Petitioner , This Maiden she in great distress to Cupid made her moan , And said her life was comfortless while thus she lived alone . Tune of , Cloris full of harmless thought , Young Phaon , Busy Fame , or the Lantern Horns grow dim . A S I did lately walk ab [ r ] oad to view the Meadows green , Not thinking to be overheard nor hardly to be seen . For 'twas before the Suns bright beams had banished darksome night , At length he shined in extremes , which did my heart delight . among the Violets there I sat and to my self thus said , I doubtless am unfortunate a poor and helpless maid . There's none that pities my distress nor minds my grievous moan , But here I fit quite comfortless [ l ] amentng all alone , Oh! Cupid on me pity take , and hear my sad complaint , Oh! quickly help me to a mate now I am like to faint . How can it choose but grieve me soar that can no bliss enjoy . While other maids have Sweethearts store , o ! hear me gentle boy . Let me not be above the rest unhappy by my Birth , Rather than thus to live oppressed turn me again to earth . For I no longer can endure nor led a Life like this , It is three months at least I'm sure since I have had one kiss . Then grant me my Petition , or I certainly shall die , My Life already I abhor , thou knowest the reason why . And it's because like others I cannot enjoy a man , But still in flames I burn and fry let me do what I can . As thus she to her self did talk beneath the Myrtle Tree , A youngman chanced that way to walk that lately came from Sea And viewing well this maiden fair her beauty pleased his eye , So he was soon caught in a snare and traped immediately . His heart that stubborn was before , now was compelled to yield , And Cupid wounded him full soar while beauty gained the field . What sudden change is this said he that I do meet withal , What must I leave my liberty and change it for a thrall . Well since it can no better be I needs must be content , And no more hope for to live free , so to this Maid he went . Sweetheart said he , a wonder strange to you I will relate , And my condition I will change if thou wilt be my mate . I traveled both by Sea and Land , and never could meet before That beauty that could me command , but thee I must adore . And if thou dost my Suit deny i'm ruined and undone , But now my dearest I comply , for thou my heart hast wone . She with a blushing smile replied , you men so false do prove , That we poor maids are terrified , and know not who to love . But if thou constant wilt remain as I will be to thee , Thou shalt not go to Sea again , but live and die with me . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere , J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 