The Discontented Young-Man , and the Loving Maid ; Or , True Love with Loyalty ought for to be paid . A Young-Man lately loved a Maiden Fair , But she pretended not for him to care ; Then before in wrath , he does bid her adieu , Because he thought that she would prove untrue : But she to him does make and answer kind , Which does rejoice his heart , and please his mind . To the Tune of , Farewell thou flower of false Deceit . or , Flora Farewell , By T. Lanfire . F Arewel , farewell , false hearted Love , disloyal unkind , and untrue ; Since that thou dost Unconstant prove , For ever i'll bid thee adieu . The time hath been I loved thee dear , which now does make my heart to rue Nevertheless i'll not despair , But for ever i'll bid thee adieu . I did not think thou wouldst requite my Love with hate , that was so true ; But since thou dost my Person slight , For ever i'll bid thee adieu . To your humours i'll not be confined , I scorn that such a thing should be , Seeing thou art of a wavering mind , I mean to bid adieu to thee . There are Girls enough at every place , that are of Beauty fair and free , I'll choose one with whom i'll embrace , And for ever bid adieu to thee . Seeing thy heart it is so hard , and thou unkindly dost slight me : I never more will thee regard , False Love farewell , adieu to thee . The second Part , to the same Tune . The Maids Reply . TO Urn back again my dearest Love , come now and hear my kind reply Constant and faithful I will prove , and isle be thy true Love till I die . Although at first I seemed strange , 'twas but thy patience for to try . but there's nothing my mind shall change I will be thy true Love till I die . Of all men throughout the Land , thou art the fairest in mine eye , Then take here both my heart and hand I will be thy true Love till I die . Some Maidens they falsehearted are , and from their promises will fly , But I will not prove false to thee , for i'll be thy true Love till I die . Cupid that little Boy so blind , he hath wounded my heart sorely , That I shall never change my mind , but must love thee till the day I die . My unkindness much I do repent , that ever I should thy love deny , But now to thy joy and content , I will be thy true Love till I die . If I a thousand pound might gain , I would not leave thy company : Constant and faithful isle remain , and isle be thy true Love till I die . For I love thee with all my heart , then cast away all sorrow by : Nothing but Death shall us two part , I will be thy true Love till I die . Young-Man . O my Love art thou of that mind , for to be constant unto me , Since that thou art loving and kind , i'll marry with no maid but thee . The promises thou didst me make , I find fix in standing now to be , And because thou dost not me forsake , I do mean to marry with none but thee . Then let us make no long delay , but in Matrimony joined be , I'll stand firm to the words I say , I will marry with no maid but thee . And so farewell to sorrows vain , unto them I will bid adieu , Henceforth i'll cease for to complain , since that my sweetheart does prove true . All you the which are Lovers joined , observe this pattern of true Love , Do not you waver like the wind , but to one another constant prove . Now in conclusion of my Song , youngmen I wish you all good wives And the maidens husbands ever be long so that they may live contented lives . FINIS . The Discontented Young-Man , and the Loving Maid ; Or , True Love with Loyalty ought for to be paid . A Young-Man lately loved a Maiden Fair , But she pretended not for him to care ; Then before in wrath , he does bid her adieu , Because he thought that she would prove untrue : But she to him does make and answer kind , Which does rejoice his heart , and please his mind . To the Tune of , Farewell thou flower of false Deceit . or , Flora Farewell , By T. Lanfire . F Arewel , farewell , false hearted Love , disloyal unkind , and untrue ; Since that thou dost Unconstant prove , For ever i'll bid thee adieu . The time hath been I loved thee dear , which now does make my heart to rue Nevertheless i'll not despair , But for ever i'll bid thee adieu . I did not think thou wouldst requite my Love with hate , that was so true ; But since thou dost my Person slight , For ever i'll bid thee adieu . To your humours i'll not be confined , I scorn that such a thing should be , Seeing thou art of a wavering mind , I mean to bid adieu to thee . There are Girls enough at every place , that are of Beauty fair and free , I'll choose one with whom i'll embrace , And for ever bid adieu to thee . Seeing thy heart it is so hard , and thou unkindly dost slight me : I never more will thee regard , False Love farewell , adieu to thee . The second Part , to the same Tune . The Maids Reply . TO Urn back again my dearest Love , come now and hear my kind reply Constant and faithful I will prove , and isle be thy true Love till I die . Although at first I seemed strange , 'twas but thy patience for to try . but there's nothing my mind shall change I will be thy true Love till I die . Of all men throughout the Land , thou art the fairest in mine eye , Then take here both my heart and hand I will be thy true Love till I die . Some Maidens they falsehearted are , and from their promises will fly , But I will not prove false to thee , for i'll be thy true Love till I die . Cupid that little Boy so blind , he hath wounded my heart sorely , That I shall never change my mind , but must love thee till the day I die . My unkindness much I do repent , that ever I should thy love deny , But now to thy joy and content , I will be thy true Love till I die . If I a thousand pound might gain , I would not leave thy company : Constant and faithful isle remain , and isle be thy true Love till I die . For I love thee with all my heart , then cast away all sorrow by : Nothing but Death shall us two part , I will be thy true Love till I die . Young-Man . O my Love art thou of that mind , for to be constant unto me , Since that thou art loving and kind , i'll marry with no maid but thee . The promises thou didst me make , I find fix in standing now to be , And because thou dost not me forsake , I do mean to marry with none but thee . Then let us make no long delay , but in Matrimony joined be , I'll stand firm to the words I say , I will marry with no maid but thee . And so farewell to sorrows vain , unto them I will bid adieu , Henceforth i'll cease for to complain , since that my sweetheart does prove true . All you the which are Lovers joined , observe this pattern of true Love , Do not you waver like the wind , but to one another constant prove . Now in conclusion of my Song , youngmen I wish you all good wives And the maidens husbands ever be long so that they may live contented lives . FINIS . 