The Unbelieving Maiden . AND THE Truehearted YOUNG-MAN . Virtue and Beauty both in one , Where they are known to be , Makes any Mortal Woman seem Like to a Deity . To the Tune of , No no , it's in vain , etc This may be Printed , R.P. W High should I complain , Since my sighs are in vain Ah! Cruel , too fair and unkind , Since thy Conquering eyes My heart did surprise No pleasure or comfort I find ; But like one Forlorn , I Languish and mourn , And my days are all turned into night I am sorely oppressed , And never was blessed Since first thou appeared in my sighed . Thus sighing with sobs , And my heart-killing throbs , My daily Companions must be , in the midst of my pain I all comforts disdain , My delight it is only in thee : Cause my Love is entire , And I burn with desire , Must thou to thy Lover be strange , It can never be said That such a fair Maid Is constant , but subject to change . For shame do not hide And let Cruelty bide Under such painted cheeks as thine own Since Nature is proud of what she allowed , Then do not her favours dethrone To thee it was lent , Not for injury meant , To conquer the world in a trice , Or that which is worse , To make blessings a curse , And rob Men of their Paradise . Who will worship her brow That shows true Love vow , And triumphs over poor loving man , Though the smiles of her face Her person does grace , She's fickle , denied if you can ; Whose Beauty's inclined With some Man to be joined , When melting in Love she did cry This a grief and a shame That in torment and Flame A Languishing Lover should die . Then Barr e'ry frown , And with smiles thy Love crown , Make him happy who happy would be Turn Darkness to Light , Whose poor Soul does delight And finds comfort in nothing but thee ; ; Since a Heaven or Hell In her Bosom does dwell , Each caused by a frown or a Smile , . Let him taste of a Kiss Which increases his Bliss , While her frown does his freedom beguile . Thy Lillys and Roses The whole World supposes , Were not lent thee poor souls to trappan For if it were so , All People would know That the worst of all creatures is man . Then bend not thy brow On the Amorist now , But let virtue with Beauty so shine , That all may desire To Burn with that Fire , That makes the whole Universe thine . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Unbelieving Maiden . AND THE Truehearted YOUNG-MAN . Virtue and Beauty both in one , Where they are known to be , Makes any Mortal Woman seem Like to a Deity . To the Tune of , No no , it's in vain , etc This may be Printed , R.P. W High should I complain , Since my sighs are in vain Ah! Cruel , too fair and unkind , Since thy Conquering eyes My heart did surprise No pleasure or comfort I find ; But like one Forlorn , I Languish and mourn , And my days are all turned into night I am sorely oppressed , And never was blessed Since first thou appeared in my sighed . Thus sighing with sobs , And my heart-killing throbs , My daily Companions must be , in the midst of my pain I all comforts disdain , My delight it is only in thee : Cause my Love is entire , And I burn with desire , Must thou to thy Lover be strange , It can never be said That such a fair Maid Is constant , but subject to change . For shame do not hide And let Cruelty bide Under such painted cheeks as thine own Since Nature is proud of what she allowed , Then do not her favours dethrone To thee it was lent , Not for injury meant , To conquer the world in a trice , Or that which is worse , To make blessings a curse , And rob Men of their Paradise . Who will worship her brow That shows true Love vow , And triumphs over poor loving man , Though the smiles of her face Her person does grace , She's fickle , denied if you can ; Whose Beauty's inclined With some Man to be joined , When melting in Love she did cry This a grief and a shame That in torment and Flame A Languishing Lover should die . Then Barr e'ry frown , And with smiles thy Love crown , Make him happy who happy would be Turn Darkness to Light , Whose poor Soul does delight And finds comfort in nothing but thee ; ; Since a Heaven or Hell In her Bosom does dwell , Each caused by a frown or a Smile , . Let him taste of a Kiss Which increases his Bliss , While her frown does his freedom beguile . Thy Lillys and Roses The whole World supposes , Were not lent thee poor souls to trappan For if it were so , All People would know That the worst of all creatures is man . Then bend not thy brow On the Amorist now , But let virtue with Beauty so shine , That all may desire To Burn with that Fire , That makes the whole Universe thine . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 