The Lovers mad fits and fancies . To a Delightful New Tune . I Dote , I Dote ; but am a Sot to show it , I was a very fool to let her know it ; For now she does so cunning grow , She proves a Friend worse than a Foe ; She'l neither hold me fast , not let me go , For she tells me I cannot forsake her ; The straight I endeavour to leave her ; But to make me to stay , She throws a kiss in my way , Oh then I could tarry for ever . Then I retire , salute and fit down by her , Then do I fry in frost , and freeze in fire ; It's Nectar from her Lips I sup , Although I cannot drink all up : Yet I am Fort with kissing of the Cup , For her lips are two brimmers of Claret , When first I began to miscarry ; Her Breasts of delight ; Are two Bottles of white ; And her eyes are two cups of Canary . Drunk as I live , dead drunk without reprieve , And all my secrets driven through a Sive , Upon my neck her Arms she layeth , Then all is Gospel that she says , Which I lay hold on with my fuddled faith , For I find a found Lover a drunkard , And dangerous when once he flies out ; With lips , and with sips , Black eyes , and white thighs , Blind Cupid sure tippled his eyes out . She bids me rise , tells me I must be wise , And be like her , for she's not in love she cries ; Then do I fume , and fret . and throw , Shall I be fettered to my Foe ? Then I begin to run , but cannot go : I prithee Sweet use me more kindly , It's better to hold me fast , if you once disengage , Your Bird from his Cage ; Believe me he'l leave you at last . L Ike a sot I fit , that filled the town with wit , But now I confess I have most need of it , I have been Drunk with Duck and Dear , About a quarter of a year , Beyond the cure of sleeping , or small Beer ; For I think I can number the months too , July , August , September , October : thus goes my account , but a mischief light oned , For I'm sure I shall go when I am sober . My legs are lamed , my courage is quite tamed , My heart and my body is inflamed : Now by experience I can prove , And swear by all the Gods above : It's better to be drunk with wine then love ; For good sack makes us merry and witty , Our foreheads with Jewels adorning ; and although we do grope , yet there is some hope That a man may be sober next morning . Now with command she throws me from her hand she bids me go and knows I cannot stand I measure all the ground by steps , Was ever a Sot so drunk with Sips , Or ever man so overcome with Lips : I pray Madam Fickle be faithful , And leave off your damnable dodging : either love me , or leave me , and do not deceive me , But let me home to my lodging . I have too much , and yet my folly is such , I cannot leave , but must have tother touch : Here's a health to the King ----- how now , I'm drunk , and shall speak reason I vow , But Lovers and fools , may speak any thing you know , I fear I have tired your patience ; But I'm sure it's I have the wrong oned : my wit is bereft me , and all that is left me Is but : just enough to make a Song oned : my Lady and I , shall never comply , And that is the short and the long oned . FINIS . London , Printed by A.P. for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Lovers mad fits and fancies . To a Delightful New Tune . I Dote , I Dote ; but am a Sot to show it , I was a very fool to let her know it ; For now she does so cunning grow , She proves a Friend worse than a Foe ; She'l neither hold me fast , not let me go , For she tells me I cannot forsake her ; The straight I endeavour to leave her ; But to make me to stay , She throws a kiss in my way , Oh then I could tarry for ever . Then I retire , salute and fit down by her , Then do I fry in frost , and freeze in fire ; It's Nectar from her Lips I sup , Although I cannot drink all up : Yet I am Fort with kissing of the Cup , For her lips are two brimmers of Claret , When first I began to miscarry ; Her Breasts of delight ; Are two Bottles of white ; And her eyes are two cups of Canary . Drunk as I live , dead drunk without reprieve , And all my secrets driven through a Sive , Upon my neck her Arms she layeth , Then all is Gospel that she says , Which I lay hold on with my fuddled faith , For I find a found Lover a drunkard , And dangerous when once he flies out ; With lips , and with sips , Black eyes , and white thighs , Blind Cupid sure tippled his eyes out . She bids me rise , tells me I must be wise , And be like her , for she's not in love she cries ; Then do I fume , and fret . and throw , Shall I be fettered to my Foe ? Then I begin to run , but cannot go : I prithee Sweet use me more kindly , It's better to hold me fast , if you once disengage , Your Bird from his Cage ; Believe me he'l leave you at last . L Ike a sot I fit , that filled the town with wit , But now I confess I have most need of it , I have been Drunk with Duck and Dear , About a quarter of a year , Beyond the cure of sleeping , or small Beer ; For I think I can number the months too , July , August , September , October : thus goes my account , but a mischief light oned , For I'm sure I shall go when I am sober . My legs are lamed , my courage is quite tamed , My heart and my body is inflamed : Now by experience I can prove , And swear by all the Gods above : It's better to be drunk with wine then love ; For good sack makes us merry and witty , Our foreheads with Jewels adorning ; and although we do grope , yet there is some hope That a man may be sober next morning . Now with command she throws me from her hand she bids me go and knows I cannot stand I measure all the ground by steps , Was ever a Sot so drunk with Sips , Or ever man so overcome with Lips : I pray Madam Fickle be faithful , And leave off your damnable dodging : either love me , or leave me , and do not deceive me , But let me home to my lodging . I have too much , and yet my folly is such , I cannot leave , but must have tother touch : Here's a health to the King ----- how now , I'm drunk , and shall speak reason I vow , But Lovers and fools , may speak any thing you know , I fear I have tired your patience ; But I'm sure it's I have the wrong oned : my wit is bereft me , and all that is left me Is but : just enough to make a Song oned : my Lady and I , shall never comply , And that is the short and the long oned . FINIS . London , Printed by A.P. for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 