Loves wound , & amp ; loves Cure . The Tune is , The wandering Spirits in the Air . AMintas loved Cloris that fair one , And Cloris loved Amintas , though unknown , Which made her cry to Cupid oft for aid , Help Cupid , help , a poor distressed Maid . Why should the God of Love deal thus with me ? To give a wound , a wound , that cannot cured be . Have I a tongue and yet I dare not speak ? Have I a heart and yet it will not break ? Have I a hand and yet I dare not Write , To him that is my love and hearts delight ? Why should , etc Men they may speak , but Maidens modesty , Forbids the same , Oh cruel Destiny , How should the secrets of our hearts be known , When by our words we dare not make it known . Why should , etc I find my eyes too soon deceive my heart , There is no balsome that can cure my smart , But the sweet countenance of my dearest friend May crown my joys , & amp ; bring my grief to end . Why should , etc Now happy are they , that never received a wound Nor yet hath been in Cupid's Pound ? How happy are they , that nothing can remove , That never felt the power , or force of Love ? why should , etc Why do I live to see this dismal day , I may not speak , nor yet for pity pray , I may not speak , nor make my grievance known , Or yet to any can I make my moan ? Why should the God of Love thus deal with me , to give a wound , a wound , that cannot cured be . The Second Part , to the same Tune . AENeas with Queen Dido played the thief , He stole her heart , and left her full of grief , But my Amintas little knows that I Do love him now with true fidelity . Why should the God of Love thus deal with me , To give a wound , a wound , that cannot cured be . Tell him you wandering Spirits in the Air , Where I remain , whom he esteems so dear : Let him not pine nor languish thus for me , Cloris ; Cloris , Amintas loves thee . Why should , etc Farewell my Flock , for she that's thus unsure , And led away with every look and lure , What care can she have of her tender sheep , When as her self she can no better keep ? Why should , etc Now must I wander over Hills and Rocks , To find Amintas , and forsake my Flocks : Farewell content and farewell liberty , Cloris is now in pain but cannot die . Why should , etc Bashful Amintas thou hast known my heart , Why dost not thou thy mind to me impart ? Tell him you wandering Spirits of the Air , Had he done so I would have eased his care , Why should , etc Amintas comes and hearing her say so , Quickly stepped in , and eased her of her woe , Thus love you see can ever find the way , To make young men and pretty Lasses obey . Now Cloris thou canst not Cupid blame , He gave a wound , and salve to cure the same . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Loves wound , & amp ; loves Cure . The Tune is , The wandering Spirits in the Air . AMintas loved Cloris that fair one , And Cloris loved Amintas , though unknown , Which made her cry to Cupid oft for aid , Help Cupid , help , a poor distressed Maid . Why should the God of Love deal thus with me ? To give a wound , a wound , that cannot cured be . Have I a tongue and yet I dare not speak ? Have I a heart and yet it will not break ? Have I a hand and yet I dare not Write , To him that is my love and hearts delight ? Why should , etc Men they may speak , but Maidens modesty , Forbids the same , Oh cruel Destiny , How should the secrets of our hearts be known , When by our words we dare not make it known . Why should , etc I find my eyes too soon deceive my heart , There is no balsome that can cure my smart , But the sweet countenance of my dearest friend May crown my joys , & amp ; bring my grief to end . Why should , etc Now happy are they , that never received a wound Nor yet hath been in Cupid's Pound ? How happy are they , that nothing can remove , That never felt the power , or force of Love ? why should , etc Why do I live to see this dismal day , I may not speak , nor yet for pity pray , I may not speak , nor make my grievance known , Or yet to any can I make my moan ? Why should the God of Love thus deal with me , to give a wound , a wound , that cannot cured be . The Second Part , to the same Tune . AENeas with Queen Dido played the thief , He stole her heart , and left her full of grief , But my Amintas little knows that I Do love him now with true fidelity . Why should the God of Love thus deal with me , To give a wound , a wound , that cannot cured be . Tell him you wandering Spirits in the Air , Where I remain , whom he esteems so dear : Let him not pine nor languish thus for me , Cloris ; Cloris , Amintas loves thee . Why should , etc Farewell my Flock , for she that's thus unsure , And led away with every look and lure , What care can she have of her tender sheep , When as her self she can no better keep ? Why should , etc Now must I wander over Hills and Rocks , To find Amintas , and forsake my Flocks : Farewell content and farewell liberty , Cloris is now in pain but cannot die . Why should , etc Bashful Amintas thou hast known my heart , Why dost not thou thy mind to me impart ? Tell him you wandering Spirits of the Air , Had he done so I would have eased his care , Why should , etc Amintas comes and hearing her say so , Quickly stepped in , and eased her of her woe , Thus love you see can ever find the way , To make young men and pretty Lasses obey . Now Cloris thou canst not Cupid blame , He gave a wound , and salve to cure the same . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 