A Remedy for the GREEN SICKNESS . A pretty Damsel full of love , Lay panting all alone , Which did a Youngsters pity move , To hear her sighs and groan . Tune , Philander . A Handsome buxom Lass lay panting in her bed , She looked as green as grass and mournfully she said . Except I have some lusty lad to ease me of my pain , I cannot live I sighs and grieve , My Life I now disdain . But if some bonny Lad would be so kind to me , Before I am quite mad to end my misery . And cools those burning flames of fire which rage within my Breast , Then should I be From torments free , And be for ever blessed . I am both young and fair yet it's my fortune hard , I'm ready to despair my pleasures are debarred And I poor soul cannot enjoy nor taste of Lovers bliss , While others meet , Those joys so sweet , Oh! what a life is this . Were but my passion known sure some would pity me , That lys so long alone for want of company . Had I some young man in my Arms that would be brisk and brave , My pains would end , He'd prove my Friend , And keep me from my grave . For this tormenting pain I cannot long endure , My hope's are all in vain , if I expect a cure , Without some thundering lad comes in and with a courage bold , Grant me delight . I'de him requite , With silver and with Gold . A gallant lively Lad that in the next room lay , It made his heart full glad to hear what she did say . Into the room immediately this youngster he did rush , Some words her spoke , Love to provoke , But she straight cried out hush . My Father he will hear and then we'r both undone , Quoth he love do not fear i'll venture for a Son. The coverled he then threw off and jumped into the Bed , And in a trice , He kissed her twice , Then to his Chamber fled . And blushing all alone this Damsel sweating lay , Her troubles they were gone thus softly she did say . Had I but known that Lovers bliss had been so sweet a taste , I'de never have Stayed Nor begged nor prayed That so much time did waste . This lusty Youthful boy that banished all my pain , I must his love enjoy ever it be long again . For Gold and Silver isle not spare , can that his courage prove , He has and Art , With out all smart , Green Sickness to remove . A sighs she gave and said o ! come again to me , For I am half afraid I shall not cured be , At this first bout then prithee try to help me once again , Count me not bold , I'll give thee Gold Enough for all thy pain . Printed for , F. Cole . T. Vere . J. Wright J. Clark . W. Thackery , & amp ; T. PassengerA Remedy for the GREEN SICKNESS . A pretty Damsel full of love , Lay panting all alone , Which did a Youngsters pity move , To hear her sighs and groan . Tune , Philander . A Handsome buxom Lass lay panting in her bed , She looked as green as grass and mournfully she said . Except I have some lusty lad to ease me of my pain , I cannot live I sighs and grieve , My Life I now disdain . But if some bonny Lad would be so kind to me , Before I am quite mad to end my misery . And cools those burning flames of fire which rage within my Breast , Then should I be From torments free , And be for ever blessed . I am both young and fair yet it's my fortune hard , I'm ready to despair my pleasures are debarred And I poor soul cannot enjoy nor taste of Lovers bliss , While others meet , Those joys so sweet , Oh! what a life is this . Were but my passion known sure some would pity me , That lys so long alone for want of company . Had I some young man in my Arms that would be brisk and brave , My pains would end , He'd prove my Friend , And keep me from my grave . For this tormenting pain I cannot long endure , My hope's are all in vain , if I expect a cure , Without some thundering lad comes in and with a courage bold , Grant me delight . I'de him requite , With silver and with Gold . A gallant lively Lad that in the next room lay , It made his heart full glad to hear what she did say . Into the room immediately this youngster he did rush , Some words her spoke , Love to provoke , But she straight cried out hush . My Father he will hear and then we'r both undone , Quoth he love do not fear i'll venture for a Son. The coverled he then threw off and jumped into the Bed , And in a trice , He kissed her twice , Then to his Chamber fled . And blushing all alone this Damsel sweating lay , Her troubles they were gone thus softly she did say . Had I but known that Lovers bliss had been so sweet a taste , I'de never have Stayed Nor begged nor prayed That so much time did waste . This lusty Youthful boy that banished all my pain , I must his love enjoy ever it be long again . For Gold and Silver isle not spare , can that his courage prove , He has and Art , With out all smart , Green Sickness to remove . A sighs she gave and said o ! come again to me , For I am half afraid I shall not cured be , At this first bout then prithee try to help me once again , Count me not bold , I'll give thee Gold Enough for all thy pain . Printed for , F. Cole . T. Vere . J. Wright J. Clark . W. Thackery , & amp ; T. Passenger 