Love and Loyalty . She fearing that her Lover was Disloyal This means did use to have a further trial , And after having her sad Fate lamented Attempted death , which he in time prevented , And wiping off her Tears , with many kisses , He cheered her Heart , & amp ; so increased their blisses . With Allowance . Tune of , when Soll will cast no light . W Hen Soll with golden Rays the Earth had warmed , And Shepherd's with their lays the Wood-Nymphs charmed , All in a shady Grove , by few frequented A Lady deep in Love thus she lamented . O fortune full of spite why do I languish Bring my disloyal Knight to heal my anguish , Before my spirits fail with grief oppressed , While I my fate bewail deeply distressed . How happy are those Maids who free from Courting Enjoy their harmless Loves , in Rural sporting , Whose hearts are seldom slave by Oaths protested , Nor are through deep disdain by Grief molested . Their freedoms they enjoy and take their pleasure , So lovingly they toy , when they have leisure , While I am day by day , by grief oretaken , Because that by my Love , I am forsaken . What does it me avail to be descended , Of noble Parentage highly attended , Since that the Fates agree to keep me under Where hearts divided be and kept a sunder . the pretty Birds which do in the woods warble , Bear witness my loves heart , hard is as marble , Else would he pity yield and ease my sorrows Who am slave in the field , by Cupid's Arrows . Upon the tender trees which plain will show it There will I write my woes that all may know it Tigers that are so wild in the woods romeing , Shall be more tame and mild , hearing my mourning . But all in vain I grieve he does not hear me , Nor will he me relieve or once come near me Therefore to bring me rest boldly I'll venture And pierce my constant breast for death to enter . Then cruel Knight farewell whom I did tender , Let loyal Lovers tell I did surrender , My dearest blood for thee at this same instant Though thou art false to me , I will die constant . Her Lover being nigh And herd what passed Start up immediately . and to her hasted , Oh hold thy hand dear Love be not so cruel For I will constant prove to my dear jewel . My fault I do confess , it ill done by me To leave thee in distress all for to try thee But now amends isle make as much as may be I'll never thee forsake My Loyal Lady . His words which were so sweet Her senses charmed And then against all grief she straight was armed , They blessed the time & amp ; place which brought them thither , And they did embrace and [ worser ] swo ent together . Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright and . J. Clark . Love and Loyalty . She fearing that her Lover was Disloyal This means did use to have a further trial , And after having her sad Fate lamented Attempted death , which he in time prevented , And wiping off her Tears , with many kisses , He cheered her Heart , & amp ; so increased their blisses . With Allowance . Tune of , when Soll will cast no light . W Hen Soll with golden Rays the Earth had warmed , And Shepherd's with their lays the Wood-Nymphs charmed , All in a shady Grove , by few frequented A Lady deep in Love thus she lamented . O fortune full of spite why do I languish Bring my disloyal Knight to heal my anguish , Before my spirits fail with grief oppressed , While I my fate bewail deeply distressed . How happy are those Maids who free from Courting Enjoy their harmless Loves , in Rural sporting , Whose hearts are seldom slave by Oaths protested , Nor are through deep disdain by Grief molested . Their freedoms they enjoy and take their pleasure , So lovingly they toy , when they have leisure , While I am day by day , by grief oretaken , Because that by my Love , I am forsaken . What does it me avail to be descended , Of noble Parentage highly attended , Since that the Fates agree to keep me under Where hearts divided be and kept a sunder . the pretty Birds which do in the woods warble , Bear witness my loves heart , hard is as marble , Else would he pity yield and ease my sorrows Who am slave in the field , by Cupid's Arrows . Upon the tender trees which plain will show it There will I write my woes that all may know it Tigers that are so wild in the woods romeing , Shall be more tame and mild , hearing my mourning . But all in vain I grieve he does not hear me , Nor will he me relieve or once come near me Therefore to bring me rest boldly I'll venture And pierce my constant breast for death to enter . Then cruel Knight farewell whom I did tender , Let loyal Lovers tell I did surrender , My dearest blood for thee at this same instant Though thou art false to me , I will die constant . Her Lover being nigh And herd what passed Start up immediately . and to her hasted , Oh hold thy hand dear Love be not so cruel For I will constant prove to my dear jewel . My fault I do confess , it ill done by me To leave thee in distress all for to try thee But now amends isle make as much as may be I'll never thee forsake My Loyal Lady . His words which were so sweet Her senses charmed And then against all grief she straight was armed , They blessed the time & amp ; place which brought them thither , And they did embrace and [ worser ] swo ent together . Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright and . J. Clark . 