The Life of LOVE . Let he or she , from Chains are free , prize high their Liberty . Loves a Disease , that seems to please yet breeds Captivity . To the Tune of , The Fair one let me In : Or , Busy Fame , This may be Printed , R. P. A LL you that do in Love delight , now mind what I relate ; And give your judgement now aright , of this my cruel Fate : I loved one most tenderly . that loved not me again : Though I for him could freely die , he pays me with dsidain . And yet upon him I must dote , Oh what a Fool am I : Though yet I love him well I knowed , it's mere Simplicity , To mourn for him who laughs at me , i'th' midst of all my pain ; When he should be most kind to me , He does me most disdain . Hard hap I had in this my Choice , to meet one so unkind ; While others sweetly do rejoice , no Comfort I can find : But sighing waste my self aw [ a ] y , and linger in my Chain ; I pine for him both night and day , that does me still disdain . This is Unjustice to the height , that Reason contradicts ; Both night and day for him to sighs , that my poor heart afflicts : Oh! I had rather choose to die , then in this state remain , It's worst then Death assuredly , to meet with such disdain . W Ell since I must this grief endure , i'll now resign my breath ; For being passed all hope's of Cure , I covet for my Death : For I shall never quiet be , while I do here remain ; Come Death and strike immediately , then farewell his disdain . Then down her Cheeks the tears did run and oft she wished in vain ; For that which could not well be wone , which much increased her pain , Come Death , quoth she , & amp ; Pierce my heart , let me no more complain ; I long to feel thy killing dart , since he does me disdain . The Young-Mans Loving Answer . M Y dear you're too too much unkind against me thus to speak , For thou shalt see I will prove kind , thy heart it shall not break : For every tear that thou hast spent , I bottle up in store ; Believe me Love , it's my intent that thou shouldst grieve no more . No no , forbear to mourn for me , who love thee tenderly . I will be faithful unto thee , and constant till I die : Thou art and Angel unto me , it's thee I do adore ; In thee alone I do delight , then grieve for me no more . It pierced me through my tender heart , to hear thee thus complain ; It is not in the power of Art , to make me thee disdain : My Love is spotless I protest , none ever loved so before ; My dear , I do not speak in jest . then grieve for me no more . Let this my Love a pattern be , to all both young and old ; Who say , they love unfeignedly . but yet I dare be bold To say , that many do deceive , for scarce one in a Score , That say they love you may believe , but mind such Blades no more . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the G olden-Ball in Pie Corner . The Life of LOVE . Let he or she , from Chains are free , prize high their Liberty . Loves a Disease , that seems to please yet breeds Captivity . To the Tune of , The Fair one let me In : Or , Busy Fame , This may be Printed , R. P. A LL you that do in Love delight , now mind what I relate ; And give your judgement now aright , of this my cruel Fate : I loved one most tenderly . that loved not me again : Though I for him could freely die , he pays me with dsidain . And yet upon him I must dote , Oh what a Fool am I : Though yet I love him well I knowed , it's mere Simplicity , To mourn for him who laughs at me , i'th' midst of all my pain ; When he should be most kind to me , He does me most disdain . Hard hap I had in this my Choice , to meet one so unkind ; While others sweetly do rejoice , no Comfort I can find : But sighing waste my self aw [ a ] y , and linger in my Chain ; I pine for him both night and day , that does me still disdain . This is Unjustice to the height , that Reason contradicts ; Both night and day for him to sighs , that my poor heart afflicts : Oh! I had rather choose to die , then in this state remain , It's worst then Death assuredly , to meet with such disdain . W Ell since I must this grief endure , i'll now resign my breath ; For being passed all hope's of Cure , I covet for my Death : For I shall never quiet be , while I do here remain ; Come Death and strike immediately , then farewell his disdain . Then down her Cheeks the tears did run and oft she wished in vain ; For that which could not well be wone , which much increased her pain , Come Death , quoth she , & amp ; Pierce my heart , let me no more complain ; I long to feel thy killing dart , since he does me disdain . The Young-Mans Loving Answer . M Y dear you're too too much unkind against me thus to speak , For thou shalt see I will prove kind , thy heart it shall not break : For every tear that thou hast spent , I bottle up in store ; Believe me Love , it's my intent that thou shouldst grieve no more . No no , forbear to mourn for me , who love thee tenderly . I will be faithful unto thee , and constant till I die : Thou art and Angel unto me , it's thee I do adore ; In thee alone I do delight , then grieve for me no more . It pierced me through my tender heart , to hear thee thus complain ; It is not in the power of Art , to make me thee disdain : My Love is spotless I protest , none ever loved so before ; My dear , I do not speak in jest . then grieve for me no more . Let this my Love a pattern be , to all both young and old ; Who say , they love unfeignedly . but yet I dare be bold To say , that many do deceive , for scarce one in a Score , That say they love you may believe , but mind such Blades no more . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the G olden-Ball in Pie Corner . 