The Dumb Lady , Or , NO , no not I I'll Answer . To the Tune , of the Doubtful Virgin , or the new Borey , or Will you be a Man of Fashion . U Nderneath a little Mountain where I used my self to walk , By a Pretty pleasant Fountain there I herd two Lovers talk He said be my only Jewel , would you have your Lover die . Can you be so fare and cruel No indeed quoth she not I. Why my Dear my pretty Nancy , will you then torment my mind ? If poor Willy you can fancy show your self to him more kind . Or if you design my Ruin I am willing for to die But be short in my undoing Still she answered no not I . Why then prey will you torment me & amp ; take pleasure in my smart , When a kind look will content me will you frown to break my Heart , If it be my Nanny's Pleasure on my Sword I'll freely die , Give the word my only Treasure Still she answered no not I . Bid me live and ii'e endeavour every way to gain your Love , If it be so great a Favour , bid me from your eyes remove . Deal with me as with a Creature as you please shall live or die , Are you Mistress of ill Nature , Still she answered no not I . This indeed was more contenting than what ever before she gave Though it was not full consenting It encouraged her Flame . Should I tempt to kiss my fair one would you say despair and die Say my Love my only dear one Still she answered no not I . Then he laid his Arms , about her She the Posture did Approve , He resolved no more to doubt her & amp ; by progress of his Love Gained such conquest straight upon her that at last they swain did cry Will you yield the Fort of Honour , Still she answered no not I . But their was so little distance and so yielding a defence That he found all her resistance was but only complesence . No said he you must surrender if I force you will you cry ? All she said for to defend her Was indeed my dear not I . Hard it was at the first Sally for to say which side would beatrice , Though poor Willey oft did Rally He as often did retreat : But what most deserved wonder Willey he for all his Art , Though he kept poor Nanny under was the first desired to part . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Pye-Corner . The Dumb Lady , Or , NO , no not I I'll Answer . To the Tune , of the Doubtful Virgin , or the new Borey , or Will you be a Man of Fashion . U Nderneath a little Mountain where I used my self to walk , By a Pretty pleasant Fountain there I herd two Lovers talk He said be my only Jewel , would you have your Lover die . Can you be so fare and cruel No indeed quoth she not I. Why my Dear my pretty Nancy , will you then torment my mind ? If poor Willy you can fancy show your self to him more kind . Or if you design my Ruin I am willing for to die But be short in my undoing Still she answered no not I . Why then prey will you torment me & amp ; take pleasure in my smart , When a kind look will content me will you frown to break my Heart , If it be my Nanny's Pleasure on my Sword I'll freely die , Give the word my only Treasure Still she answered no not I . Bid me live and ii'e endeavour every way to gain your Love , If it be so great a Favour , bid me from your eyes remove . Deal with me as with a Creature as you please shall live or die , Are you Mistress of ill Nature , Still she answered no not I . This indeed was more contenting than what ever before she gave Though it was not full consenting It encouraged her Flame . Should I tempt to kiss my fair one would you say despair and die Say my Love my only dear one Still she answered no not I . Then he laid his Arms , about her She the Posture did Approve , He resolved no more to doubt her & amp ; by progress of his Love Gained such conquest straight upon her that at last they swain did cry Will you yield the Fort of Honour , Still she answered no not I . But their was so little distance and so yielding a defence That he found all her resistance was but only complesence . No said he you must surrender if I force you will you cry ? All she said for to defend her Was indeed my dear not I . Hard it was at the first Sally for to say which side would beatrice , Though poor Willey oft did Rally He as often did retreat : But what most deserved wonder Willey he for all his Art , Though he kept poor Nanny under was the first desired to part . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Pye-Corner . 