The Secret Lovers , OR , The jealous Father Beguiled . Loves passion is not easily put under , Nor faithful lovers to be kept asunder ; Because you know the proverb it is so That Love will creep when as it cannot go . To a West-Country Tune ; Or , Alack for my Love I must die . A Dainty spruce young Gallant that lived in the West , He courted a young Lady , and real Love professed : And coming one night to her . his mind he thus expressed ; And sing go from my Window Love go . What is my Love a sleeping , or is my Love a wake ? Who knocketh at the Window , who knocketh there so late It is your true Love Lady that for your sake does wait , And sing go from my Window Love go . Then open me your Father's Gate , and do not me deny ; But grant to me your true love , or surely I shall die : I dare not open now the Gates for fear my Father spy ; And sing go from my Window Love go . O dearest be not daunted , thou needest not to fear , Thy Father may be sleeping , our Loves he shall not hear , Then open it without delay : My Joy and only Dear , And sing go from my Window Love go . M Y Father he does watch me , his jealousy is so : If he should chance to catch me , Oh then what should we do ? Therefore I dare not venture , my dear to open now , And sing go from Window my Love go . I wish there were no Hinges , nor yet no Key nor Lock ; That I might come unto my love , now she is in her Smock : Oh peace and be contented : I hear my Father knock : And sing go from my Window Love go . O Daughter dear why are you out of your Bed so late ? O Father I am very sick , and in distressed state ? Methinks I hear some body under your Window prate : And sing go from my Window Love go . O Father it's the Watchmen , this Evening passing by ; H ark how a faithful Lover can frame a pretty lie , Oh Daughter I command you unto your bed to high , And sing go from my Window Love go . Dear Father I obey you and quickly I am gone ; But yet I am not willing to leave my love alone : So soon as you are Sleeping , I down again will come , And sing go from etc And then she sent her Maiden unto her Chamber straight ; And came unto her true Love , who at the Door did wait , And opened him the Wicket , for all it was so late : And sing go from etc Then softly he did enter , and to the Lady said : My Love there is no Danger we cannot be betrayed , Let us enjoy out Pleasure , and never be afraid : And sing go from etc And thus this Faithful Couple , there wishes had at last For all her Jealous Father , the sweets of Love they taste : And when the day appeared , her love away did haste : And sing go from etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , . The Secret Lovers , OR , The jealous Father Beguiled . Loves passion is not easily put under , Nor faithful lovers to be kept asunder ; Because you know the proverb it is so That Love will creep when as it cannot go . To a West-Country Tune ; Or , Alack for my Love I must die . A Dainty spruce young Gallant that lived in the West , He courted a young Lady , and real Love professed : And coming one night to her . his mind he thus expressed ; And sing go from my Window Love go . What is my Love a sleeping , or is my Love a wake ? Who knocketh at the Window , who knocketh there so late It is your true Love Lady that for your sake does wait , And sing go from my Window Love go . Then open me your Father's Gate , and do not me deny ; But grant to me your true love , or surely I shall die : I dare not open now the Gates for fear my Father spy ; And sing go from my Window Love go . O dearest be not daunted , thou needest not to fear , Thy Father may be sleeping , our Loves he shall not hear , Then open it without delay : My Joy and only Dear , And sing go from my Window Love go . M Y Father he does watch me , his jealousy is so : If he should chance to catch me , Oh then what should we do ? Therefore I dare not venture , my dear to open now , And sing go from Window my Love go . I wish there were no Hinges , nor yet no Key nor Lock ; That I might come unto my love , now she is in her Smock : Oh peace and be contented : I hear my Father knock : And sing go from my Window Love go . O Daughter dear why are you out of your Bed so late ? O Father I am very sick , and in distressed state ? Methinks I hear some body under your Window prate : And sing go from my Window Love go . O Father it's the Watchmen , this Evening passing by ; H ark how a faithful Lover can frame a pretty lie , Oh Daughter I command you unto your bed to high , And sing go from my Window Love go . Dear Father I obey you and quickly I am gone ; But yet I am not willing to leave my love alone : So soon as you are Sleeping , I down again will come , And sing go from etc And then she sent her Maiden unto her Chamber straight ; And came unto her true Love , who at the Door did wait , And opened him the Wicket , for all it was so late : And sing go from etc Then softly he did enter , and to the Lady said : My Love there is no Danger we cannot be betrayed , Let us enjoy out Pleasure , and never be afraid : And sing go from etc And thus this Faithful Couple , there wishes had at last For all her Jealous Father , the sweets of Love they taste : And when the day appeared , her love away did haste : And sing go from etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , . 