A FARING For Young-Men and Maids : If you'll take my advice , this I would have you do , Then every Youngman take his Lass , and drink one Pot or two . To the TO une of , The Winchester Wedding . This may be Printed , R. P. By Tobias Bowne . A S Thomas and Mary did meet , it was on a Summer's day , With words they began to greet each other upon the way : Pray what are you bound for the Fair this Youngman unto her did say , And if that you be going there , i'll be glad of your Company ; He said that he did love her , as a youngman a Maid should do , And every Style they went over , he gave her a kiss or two . But when they came to the Fair , they merrily spent the day , But meeting with William and Betty , thus TO homas to them did say , We'll drink before we part , come give us a Bottle of Wine , Since thou art with thy Sweetheart , and I am come here with mine : The Maids were not unwilling , as far as I understand , But Will was for kissing and feeling a Maid upon every hand . And when they were full of Canary , their stomachs began for to rise Then Thomas began to court Marry , with hand upon one of her thighs : Said he art thou willing to wed , for I have some goods before hand , Beside when my Father is dead , he promised me all his Land , And this is a good beginning , beside I have more at home , You may get a little by spinning , and I can both Weave and Comb. My Mother will give me a little , if I get and honest Youngman , She says I shall have the Kettle , and likewise the Warming-pan : My Granum will give me a Cradle , which is both firm and strong , Sister Margery will give me a Ladle , these Goods comes in ding dung : And this is a good beginning , beside I have more at home , I may get a little by spinning , and you can both Weave and Comb. Then William struck up to Betty , and thus unto her did say , Since thou art a Girl that's pretty , i'll give thee a Faring this day , Why fit you so melancholy , my pretty sweet Betty my Dove , Though Thomas be all for Molly , it's thou are the Maid that I love , And this unto thee I will promise , then hang Sorrow cast away care , We'll be as far forth as Thomas , before we get out of the Fair . If that you will change your condition , and that you do fancy a Man , I pray Betty have no suspicion , that you I do seek to trappan , My tongue and my heart is united , I scorn for to tell thee a lie , Sure I have no cause to be slighted , then prithee love do not deny , Though we have a small beginning , as little as nothing I know , You may get a little by spinning , and I can both Reap and Mow. And thus we may live in content , as they that had a great deal more , Then out of the door they went , and walked the Fair all over , To buy each other a Faring , as youngmen and Maids should do , And when they were home repairing , they walked away two and two , It was Thomas and Mary together , with William and Betty so rare , Pray what Man can say any other , but that they had made a good Fair , What Maid can there be so hard hearted , and honest Young man to deny , That is the cause many are parted , without any reason why , I would have you strive to prevent it , or else it may be to your loss , I know that you are not contented , when you one the other do cross , And not my new Song it is over , for I have no more to say , But wish every Maid a true lover , that I have seen here to day . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie Corner . A FARING For Young-Men and Maids : If you'll take my advice , this I would have you do , Then every Youngman take his Lass , and drink one Pot or two . To the TO une of , The Winchester Wedding . This may be Printed , R. P. By Tobias Bowne . A S Thomas and Mary did meet , it was on a Summer's day , With words they began to greet each other upon the way : Pray what are you bound for the Fair this Youngman unto her did say , And if that you be going there , i'll be glad of your Company ; He said that he did love her , as a youngman a Maid should do , And every Style they went over , he gave her a kiss or two . But when they came to the Fair , they merrily spent the day , But meeting with William and Betty , thus TO homas to them did say , We'll drink before we part , come give us a Bottle of Wine , Since thou art with thy Sweetheart , and I am come here with mine : The Maids were not unwilling , as far as I understand , But Will was for kissing and feeling a Maid upon every hand . And when they were full of Canary , their stomachs began for to rise Then Thomas began to court Marry , with hand upon one of her thighs : Said he art thou willing to wed , for I have some goods before hand , Beside when my Father is dead , he promised me all his Land , And this is a good beginning , beside I have more at home , You may get a little by spinning , and I can both Weave and Comb. My Mother will give me a little , if I get and honest Youngman , She says I shall have the Kettle , and likewise the Warming-pan : My Granum will give me a Cradle , which is both firm and strong , Sister Margery will give me a Ladle , these Goods comes in ding dung : And this is a good beginning , beside I have more at home , I may get a little by spinning , and you can both Weave and Comb. Then William struck up to Betty , and thus unto her did say , Since thou art a Girl that's pretty , i'll give thee a Faring this day , Why fit you so melancholy , my pretty sweet Betty my Dove , Though Thomas be all for Molly , it's thou are the Maid that I love , And this unto thee I will promise , then hang Sorrow cast away care , We'll be as far forth as Thomas , before we get out of the Fair . If that you will change your condition , and that you do fancy a Man , I pray Betty have no suspicion , that you I do seek to trappan , My tongue and my heart is united , I scorn for to tell thee a lie , Sure I have no cause to be slighted , then prithee love do not deny , Though we have a small beginning , as little as nothing I know , You may get a little by spinning , and I can both Reap and Mow. And thus we may live in content , as they that had a great deal more , Then out of the door they went , and walked the Fair all over , To buy each other a Faring , as youngmen and Maids should do , And when they were home repairing , they walked away two and two , It was Thomas and Mary together , with William and Betty so rare , Pray what Man can say any other , but that they had made a good Fair , What Maid can there be so hard hearted , and honest Young man to deny , That is the cause many are parted , without any reason why , I would have you strive to prevent it , or else it may be to your loss , I know that you are not contented , when you one the other do cross , And not my new Song it is over , for I have no more to say , But wish every Maid a true lover , that I have seen here to day . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie Corner . 