Will the merry weaver , & amp ; Charity the Chambermaid , Or , A brisk enounter between a youngman and his love ; He in her eyes , such Beauty's did discover , Making him eager to approach his Lover ; But she a longing Maid as others be , Desired for to learn her A. B. C. He put the Fescue in her Lily-white hand , And taught her how the same to understand To a pleasant new Tune ; Or , I am a Weaver by my trade . Or , Now I am bound , etc I Am a Weaver by my Trade , And I fell in love with a Servant Maid , And if I can but her favour win , Then I will weave , and she shall spin . At first I was a bashful fool , And not well versed in Cupids School , And as I bolder grew indeed , To tell you plain I did thus proceed . I went to my loves Chamber door , Where I had been many a night before ; And upon the Bed whereas she lay , What I did there I dare not say . I came to my love late in the Night , And by the Stars that did shine so bright , where such a light sprung from her clothes As though the morning Star had rose . I folded down the Milkwhite sheet , To view her body so fair and clear , Where down below I did espy , Two Pillars of white Ivory . Beneath those Pillars a fountain laid , Which my poor wandering eyes betrayed ; But of all Fountains that ever was found I could have wished my self there drowned . In a sweet slumber while she lay , I had no power for to go away ; ' or the more I viewed her , the more I might Her beauty dazzled so my sighed . At length she did awake from sleep , And fetched many a sighs most deep , O shall I die a Maid , quoth she , Will no youngman come pity me . TO His Damosel she was wondrous fair , And her age it was not above fifteen ; And oftentimes complained she , That she could not learn her A. B. C. I would some Scholar would me show , The Letters of my criss-cross-row ; That my words in order might placed be , And I might learn my A. B. C. I wonder youngmen are such fools , To keep so long from Venus Schools , If they did but know so much as we , They would never forget their A. B. C. I hearing of her thus complain , Quoth I fair Maid from tears refrain , You need not troubled thus to be , For learning of your A. B. C. I am a youngman brisk and bold , And have my Letters learned of old , In Cupid's School well versed I be , And i'll teach you read your A. B. C. If you will be ( kind Sir , she said ) So courteous to a simple Maid , Most thankful I shall ever be , For learning of my A. B. C. With that I did myself prepare , And near I drew to this Maiden fair , There is some hope's I find , quoth she , That I shall learn my A. B. C. I gave her a Fescue in her hand , And bid her use it at her command ; She said you best know where it should be , Come put it to my A. B. C. I found her very ripe of wit , And for a Scholar wondrous fit , She used her art as well as me , And all to learn her A. B. C. When I had taught her Lesson plain , She would repeat it over again ; Quoth she , this Lesson pleases me , I like to read my A. B. C. A thousand thanks she did me give , And vowed to love me while she did live ; My heart you now have wone , quoth she , By learning me my A. B. C. And now if any Maidens have A mind to learn this Lesson brave Though I am a weaver of low degree , I'll teach them read their A. B. C. Printed for P. Brooksby ' at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-smithfield . Will the merry weaver , & amp ; Charity the Chambermaid , Or , A brisk enounter between a youngman and his love ; He in her eyes , such Beauty's did discover , Making him eager to approach his Lover ; But she a longing Maid as others be , Desired for to learn her A. B. C. He put the Fescue in her Lily-white hand , And taught her how the same to understand To a pleasant new Tune ; Or , I am a Weaver by my trade . Or , Now I am bound , etc I Am a Weaver by my Trade , And I fell in love with a Servant Maid , And if I can but her favour win , Then I will weave , and she shall spin . At first I was a bashful fool , And not well versed in Cupids School , And as I bolder grew indeed , To tell you plain I did thus proceed . I went to my loves Chamber door , Where I had been many a night before ; And upon the Bed whereas she lay , What I did there I dare not say . I came to my love late in the Night , And by the Stars that did shine so bright , where such a light sprung from her clothes As though the morning Star had rose . I folded down the Milkwhite sheet , To view her body so fair and clear , Where down below I did espy , Two Pillars of white Ivory . Beneath those Pillars a fountain laid , Which my poor wandering eyes betrayed ; But of all Fountains that ever was found I could have wished my self there drowned . In a sweet slumber while she lay , I had no power for to go away ; ' or the more I viewed her , the more I might Her beauty dazzled so my sighed . At length she did awake from sleep , And fetched many a sighs most deep , O shall I die a Maid , quoth she , Will no youngman come pity me . TO His Damosel she was wondrous fair , And her age it was not above fifteen ; And oftentimes complained she , That she could not learn her A. B. C. I would some Scholar would me show , The Letters of my criss-cross-row ; That my words in order might placed be , And I might learn my A. B. C. I wonder youngmen are such fools , To keep so long from Venus Schools , If they did but know so much as we , They would never forget their A. B. C. I hearing of her thus complain , Quoth I fair Maid from tears refrain , You need not troubled thus to be , For learning of your A. B. C. I am a youngman brisk and bold , And have my Letters learned of old , In Cupid's School well versed I be , And i'll teach you read your A. B. C. If you will be ( kind Sir , she said ) So courteous to a simple Maid , Most thankful I shall ever be , For learning of my A. B. C. With that I did myself prepare , And near I drew to this Maiden fair , There is some hope's I find , quoth she , That I shall learn my A. B. C. I gave her a Fescue in her hand , And bid her use it at her command ; She said you best know where it should be , Come put it to my A. B. C. I found her very ripe of wit , And for a Scholar wondrous fit , She used her art as well as me , And all to learn her A. B. C. When I had taught her Lesson plain , She would repeat it over again ; Quoth she , this Lesson pleases me , I like to read my A. B. C. A thousand thanks she did me give , And vowed to love me while she did live ; My heart you now have wone , quoth she , By learning me my A. B. C. And now if any Maidens have A mind to learn this Lesson brave Though I am a weaver of low degree , I'll teach them read their A. B. C. Printed for P. Brooksby ' at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-smithfield . 