The Difficult French-Man's Unsuccessful Adventurers ; Or , A New Ballad of a Finical Monsieur , who came to Marry and English Lady , but could find none for his purpose , till Conquered by a Crack . Monsieur Pragmatical , was Shipped from Deep , Landed at Dover , big with hope's to Reap Clusters of Love from all the Female Sex , He Courted those with Pearls about their Necks : No mean-born Lady could this Fopp content , For the best Mark we find his Bow was bent : But after all his Courtship , he , alack , Greedily grasped a Common Whetston - Crack . To the Tune of , There was a brisk Lass , etc This may be Printed , R. P . M Y Pockets begar , were lined very well , Vid many Pistoles , too many to tell , Den from de French shore me nimbly did trip , And god me a Cabin vidin a great Ship ; My Landed at Dover in two tree days , Where all pretty Women my beauty did praise , Me took up a Seat in the Coach for six Crown , And quickly they brought me to dis fine Town . Me vent all about from place to place , To find out the best of the Female Raze , Me went to the Court to see a fine Ball , But liked no face vidin White-Hall : Me walked to see St. James's-Park , De Ladies began , call me a fine Spark ; De ver pretty French-man they call a me now , And all the fine Dams make Curtsy or bow . In a Beautiful Coach me go to Hide - P ark , Der were Couples as coming from Noah's Ark ; As fine as de Sun , as rich and as Gay , As Glorious full as the Sun at Noonday : But something me saw in every one , That made me forbear , and let dem alone ; Der was not a Face that please a mind , Yet they strove me perceived , who should be most kind From thence me return a to Barthol'mew-Fair ; Begar , pretty Lasses me often saw dear ; Me went to the Show , and saw all the Play , And at Night me did come contented away ; And as me did go to my Lodging again , A ver pretty Wench in Hozier-Lane ; Pulled me by the sleeve , and sat on my Lap , And begar , she did give me a swinging Clap. Murblew , it did pain a my body so soar , Two tree times and hour me Curse a de Whore ; The Surgeon at last did make me for well , And twenty Pistoles in his hand a me tell : Den me walked abroad to take the fresh Air , And met vid a Woman indifferent fair ; She asked me to drink , but me come no more dear , For the trick they did serve me at Barthol'mew-Fair . My Landlord soon after took me to the Play , And a very great Fortune did lodge by the way ; He made me go Court her , and when we came dear Her delicate Breasts were naked and bore : Me played vid her Bubbys , her Lips me did kiss , Soon after me asked what Fortune is dis ? Two Thousand a year , then they did reply , Begar , me no like such a Fortune , nor I . Me vil have ten tousand , or me will have none , Begar , me be handsome , it's very well known ; My Landlord did ask what Estate i'de in France , Me told him no more then Master Prance : But me have good shape , good feature , good Air , Enough the best Duchess in Town to ensnare , Me vil have ten tousand a year vid a Wife , Or else me vil led a my single Life . But , alas ! the Monsieur's mistaken I find , For he met with a Lass that was wondered kind , Half Drunk she picked up the poor Monsieur i'th dark , And carried him briskly to Whetstones-Park : She sent for a Parson , and Married they were , Next morning the French-man began to stare ; And when he perceived what great Fortune he god , In Expressions like these , he bewailed his loss . Ah me ! fat ta Devil have I a done now ? Begar me have Married a Nasty Sow : Me refuse a fine Ladies and Married a Whore , Journee-blue , me be a Rogue and a Fool derfore : De English Men now do laugh in my face a , This to de poor French-man is much a disgrace a : Begar , me no like a dis Fashion , not me , Me vil leave this Land , and hasten to Sea. Me very much fear the Clapp a last Night , Begar , me do hate her to come in my sighed : She chuck a my Chin , she kiss a my Cheek , Her Impudent actions do make a me Sick , Me hate her as bad as the Devil in Hell , She pick a my Pocket , me know full well , She take a ten Pistoles from poor sixteen , Begar , me vil run from the Impudent Quean . Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . The Difficult French-Man's Unsuccessful Adventurers ; Or , A New Ballad of a Finical Monsieur , who came to Marry and English Lady , but could find none for his purpose , till Conquered by a Crack . Monsieur Pragmatical , was Shipped from Deep , Landed at Dover , big with hope's to Reap Clusters of Love from all the Female Sex , He Courted those with Pearls about their Necks : No mean-born Lady could this Fopp content , For the best Mark we find his Bow was bent : But after all his Courtship , he , alack , Greedily grasped a Common Whetston - Crack . To the Tune of , There was a brisk Lass , etc This may be Printed , R. P . M Y Pockets begar , were lined very well , Vid many Pistoles , too many to tell , Den from de French shore me nimbly did trip , And god me a Cabin vidin a great Ship ; My Landed at Dover in two tree days , Where all pretty Women my beauty did praise , Me took up a Seat in the Coach for six Crown , And quickly they brought me to dis fine Town . Me vent all about from place to place , To find out the best of the Female Raze , Me went to the Court to see a fine Ball , But liked no face vidin White-Hall : Me walked to see St. James's-Park , De Ladies began , call me a fine Spark ; De ver pretty French-man they call a me now , And all the fine Dams make Curtsy or bow . In a Beautiful Coach me go to Hide - P ark , Der were Couples as coming from Noah's Ark ; As fine as de Sun , as rich and as Gay , As Glorious full as the Sun at Noonday : But something me saw in every one , That made me forbear , and let dem alone ; Der was not a Face that please a mind , Yet they strove me perceived , who should be most kind From thence me return a to Barthol'mew-Fair ; Begar , pretty Lasses me often saw dear ; Me went to the Show , and saw all the Play , And at Night me did come contented away ; And as me did go to my Lodging again , A ver pretty Wench in Hozier-Lane ; Pulled me by the sleeve , and sat on my Lap , And begar , she did give me a swinging Clap. Murblew , it did pain a my body so soar , Two tree times and hour me Curse a de Whore ; The Surgeon at last did make me for well , And twenty Pistoles in his hand a me tell : Den me walked abroad to take the fresh Air , And met vid a Woman indifferent fair ; She asked me to drink , but me come no more dear , For the trick they did serve me at Barthol'mew-Fair . My Landlord soon after took me to the Play , And a very great Fortune did lodge by the way ; He made me go Court her , and when we came dear Her delicate Breasts were naked and bore : Me played vid her Bubbys , her Lips me did kiss , Soon after me asked what Fortune is dis ? Two Thousand a year , then they did reply , Begar , me no like such a Fortune , nor I . Me vil have ten tousand , or me will have none , Begar , me be handsome , it's very well known ; My Landlord did ask what Estate i'de in France , Me told him no more then Master Prance : But me have good shape , good feature , good Air , Enough the best Duchess in Town to ensnare , Me vil have ten tousand a year vid a Wife , Or else me vil led a my single Life . But , alas ! the Monsieur's mistaken I find , For he met with a Lass that was wondered kind , Half Drunk she picked up the poor Monsieur i'th dark , And carried him briskly to Whetstones-Park : She sent for a Parson , and Married they were , Next morning the French-man began to stare ; And when he perceived what great Fortune he god , In Expressions like these , he bewailed his loss . Ah me ! fat ta Devil have I a done now ? Begar me have Married a Nasty Sow : Me refuse a fine Ladies and Married a Whore , Journee-blue , me be a Rogue and a Fool derfore : De English Men now do laugh in my face a , This to de poor French-man is much a disgrace a : Begar , me no like a dis Fashion , not me , Me vil leave this Land , and hasten to Sea. Me very much fear the Clapp a last Night , Begar , me do hate her to come in my sighed : She chuck a my Chin , she kiss a my Cheek , Her Impudent actions do make a me Sick , Me hate her as bad as the Devil in Hell , She pick a my Pocket , me know full well , She take a ten Pistoles from poor sixteen , Begar , me vil run from the Impudent Quean . Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . 