[ The ] Youngman's careless Wooing , And the Witty Maids Replication ; All done out of old English Proverbs . To the Tune of , Mars and Venus . This may be Printed . R. P. DOwn in and Arbour devoted to Venus , unseen I herd , two found Lovers contend ; [ No ] ting how Cupid from business can wean us and yet their Love , come to and unhappy end The blinded Boy no victory wins , As you shall hear he now begins . [ I p ] rethee Sweetheart grant me my desire , [ f ] or I am thrown as the old Proverb goes , [ Ou ] tO of the Frying-pan into the Fire : [ a ] and there is none does pity my woes , Then hang or drowned himself my muse For there is not a TO ----- to choose . [ Most ] Maids are false though some seem holier [ y ] et I believe they are all of one mind , [ Like ] unto like , quoth the Dee'l to the Collier : [ and ] worser they'll prove true when the Devil is blind , Let no Man yield to their desire For the burned Child does dread the fire . Tell me not my Love , as white as the Dove is for you would say so if you saw her within Shitten come shites the beginning of Love is , and for her favour I care not a pin , No love of mine , she ever shall be , Sirreverence of her Company . I will no more in love by her hand shake let her go seek one that fits for her mind , You know what's good for a Sow as a Pancake : and under such Dirt , i'll never be confined And he that hope's her Love to win , Resolves to run through thick and thin . Though her disdainfulness my heart hath cloven yet am I of so gallant a mind I'll never creep in her Arse to bake in her oven . for it's and old Proverb , Cat after kind , And this I'll say until I die , Farewell & amp ; be hanged , that's I wis good buy . The Witty MAIDS Answer . The silly Maid drowned in Tears of vexation , sending to him whom she loved best of all ; Such a sad sonnet so pestered with passion tearing her hair to the ground she did fallen , But rising up undauntedly she unto him made this reply . If I should grant unto thee thy desire without obtaining my Mother good will Then I'm sure all the Fats in the Fire : I know what I think , and think I will still , my Muse and yours are paltry Elves They may go hang and drown themselves . Thou mayest go follow thy sweetheart to Norwich she is a Lass that's fit for your Tooth , A Sluts good enough to make Slovens Porridge and that was the reason yea left me forsooth ; But this I say , and will do still , It's a good Jack makes a good Jill . I must confess that I loved thee well one day , but ever that thou findest me do so again , Thou shalt come kiss me where I sat on Sunday ; We foolish Maids put to much trust in Men , For when we think we are in our Heaven , You leave us all at sixes and sevens . Thou only seekest to know where my stock is But stay by my troth , some are wiser than some Near is my Petticoat , nearer my Smock is , and thy Entertainment shall be like Jack Drum For when my Portion thou hast god , It's need that makes the old Wife trot . And thus to conclude upon our conferring , most Men are as false , very few Men are true They are neither Fish , Flesh , nor yet good read herring we must speak truth , give the Devil his due : And this shall be my last reply Go walk up out Knave what care I . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . [ The ] Youngman's careless Wooing , And the Witty Maids Replication ; All done out of old English Proverbs . To the Tune of , Mars and Venus . This may be Printed . R. P. DOwn in and Arbour devoted to Venus , unseen I herd , two found Lovers contend ; [ No ] ting how Cupid from business can wean us and yet their Love , come to and unhappy end The blinded Boy no victory wins , As you shall hear he now begins . [ I p ] rethee Sweetheart grant me my desire , [ f ] or I am thrown as the old Proverb goes , [ Ou ] tO of the Frying-pan into the Fire : [ a ] and there is none does pity my woes , Then hang or drowned himself my muse For there is not a TO ----- to choose . [ Most ] Maids are false though some seem holier [ y ] et I believe they are all of one mind , [ Like ] unto like , quoth the Dee'l to the Collier : [ and ] worser they'll prove true when the Devil is blind , Let no Man yield to their desire For the burned Child does dread the fire . Tell me not my Love , as white as the Dove is for you would say so if you saw her within Shitten come shites the beginning of Love is , and for her favour I care not a pin , No love of mine , she ever shall be , Sirreverence of her Company . I will no more in love by her hand shake let her go seek one that fits for her mind , You know what's good for a Sow as a Pancake : and under such Dirt , i'll never be confined And he that hope's her Love to win , Resolves to run through thick and thin . Though her disdainfulness my heart hath cloven yet am I of so gallant a mind I'll never creep in her Arse to bake in her oven . for it's and old Proverb , Cat after kind , And this I'll say until I die , Farewell & amp ; be hanged , that's I wis good buy . The Witty MAIDS Answer . The silly Maid drowned in Tears of vexation , sending to him whom she loved best of all ; Such a sad sonnet so pestered with passion tearing her hair to the ground she did fallen , But rising up undauntedly she unto him made this reply . If I should grant unto thee thy desire without obtaining my Mother good will Then I'm sure all the Fats in the Fire : I know what I think , and think I will still , my Muse and yours are paltry Elves They may go hang and drown themselves . Thou mayest go follow thy sweetheart to Norwich she is a Lass that's fit for your Tooth , A Sluts good enough to make Slovens Porridge and that was the reason yea left me forsooth ; But this I say , and will do still , It's a good Jack makes a good Jill . I must confess that I loved thee well one day , but ever that thou findest me do so again , Thou shalt come kiss me where I sat on Sunday ; We foolish Maids put to much trust in Men , For when we think we are in our Heaven , You leave us all at sixes and sevens . Thou only seekest to know where my stock is But stay by my troth , some are wiser than some Near is my Petticoat , nearer my Smock is , and thy Entertainment shall be like Jack Drum For when my Portion thou hast god , It's need that makes the old Wife trot . And thus to conclude upon our conferring , most Men are as false , very few Men are true They are neither Fish , Flesh , nor yet good read herring we must speak truth , give the Devil his due : And this shall be my last reply Go walk up out Knave what care I . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 