The Famous Flower of SERVINGMEN . OR , The Lady turned Serving-Man . Her Love being slave , her Father dead , her bower robbed , her Servants fled , She dressed her self in men attire , She trimmed her locks , she cut her hair , And thereupon she changed her name , From fair Elise to sweet William . To a dainty TO une , or , Flora Farewell , Summer time , or , Loves tide . Y Ou beauteous Ladies great and small , I write unto you one and all , Whereby that you may understand , What I have suffered in this land . I was by birth a Lady fair My Father's chief and only heir , But when my good old father died , Then was I made a young Knights bride . and then my love built me a bower , Bedect with many a fragrant flower ; A braver bower you never did see , Than my true love did built for me . But there came thieves late in the night , They robbed my bower , & amp ; slew my Knight , And after that my Knight was slave , I could no longer there remain . My Servants all from me did fly , In the midst of my extremity : And left me by my self alone , With a heart more cold then any stone . Yet though my heart was full of care , Heaven would not suffer me to despair , Wherefore in haste I changed my name , From fair Elise to sweet William . And therewithal I cut my hair , And dressed my self in men attire , My Doublet , Hose , and Bever-hat , And a golden band about my neck . With a silver Rapier by my side , So like a gallant I did ride , The thing that I delighted on , It was to be a Servingman . TO Hus in my sumptuous men array , I bravely road along the way : And at the last it chanced so , That I unto the Kings Court did go . Then to the King I bowed full low . My love and duty for to show : And so much favour I did crave , That I a Serving-mans place migt have . Stand up brave youth , the King replied , Thy service shall not be denied : But tell me first what thou canst do , Thou shalt be fitted thereunto . Wilt thou be Usher of my Hall , To wait upon my Nobles all : Or wilt thou be taster of my Wine , To wait on me when do dine ? Or wilt thou be my Chamberlain , To make my bed both soft and fine ? Or wilt thou be one of my Guard , And I will give thee thy reward ? Sweet William with a smiling face , Said to the King , ifed please your Grace , To show such favour unto me , Your Chamberlain I fain would be . The King then did the Nobles call , To ask the counsel of them all : Who gave consent sweet William he The Kings own Chamberlain should be . Now mark what strange things came to pass , As the King one day a hunting was , With all h [ i ] s Lords and Noble train , Sweet William did at home remain . Sweet William had no company then , With him at home but and old man : and when he saw the Coast was clear , He took a Lute which he had there . Upon the Lute sweet William played , And to the same he sung and said : With a pleasant and most noble voice , Which made the old man to rejoice . Sweet Williams S ong . MY Father was as brave a Lord , As ever Europe did afford , My mother was a Lady bright . My Husband was a valiant Knight . And I my self a Lady gay , Bedecked with gorgeous rich array , The bravest Lady in the land , Had not more pleasure to command . I had my music every day , Harmonious Lessons for to play : I had my Virgins fair and free , Continually to wait on me . But now alas my husband's dead , And all my friends are from me fled : My former joys are past and gone , For now I am a Servingman . The end of sweet William's Song . At last the King from hunting came , And presently upon the same , He called for the good old man , And thus to speak the King began . What news , what news , old man , quod he . What news hast thou to tell to me ? Brave news the old man he did say , Sweet Willian is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tellest to me , I , le make thee a Lord of high degree : ut if thy words do prove a Lie , Thou shalt be hanged up presently . But when the King the truth had found , His joys did more and more abound : According as the old man did say , Sweet William was a Lady gay . Therefore the King without delay , Put on her glorious rich array : And upon her head a Crown of Gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then for fear of further strife , He took sweet William for his Wife The like before was never seen , A Servingman to be a Queen . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Famous Flower of SERVINGMEN . OR , The Lady turned Serving-Man . Her Love being slave , her Father dead , her bower robbed , her Servants fled , She dressed her self in men attire , She trimmed her locks , she cut her hair , And thereupon she changed her name , From fair Elise to sweet William . To a dainty TO une , or , Flora Farewell , Summer time , or , Loves tide . Y Ou beauteous Ladies great and small , I write unto you one and all , Whereby that you may understand , What I have suffered in this land . I was by birth a Lady fair My Father's chief and only heir , But when my good old father died , Then was I made a young Knights bride . and then my love built me a bower , Bedect with many a fragrant flower ; A braver bower you never did see , Than my true love did built for me . But there came thieves late in the night , They robbed my bower , & amp ; slew my Knight , And after that my Knight was slave , I could no longer there remain . My Servants all from me did fly , In the midst of my extremity : And left me by my self alone , With a heart more cold then any stone . Yet though my heart was full of care , Heaven would not suffer me to despair , Wherefore in haste I changed my name , From fair Elise to sweet William . And therewithal I cut my hair , And dressed my self in men attire , My Doublet , Hose , and Bever-hat , And a golden band about my neck . With a silver Rapier by my side , So like a gallant I did ride , The thing that I delighted on , It was to be a Servingman . TO Hus in my sumptuous men array , I bravely road along the way : And at the last it chanced so , That I unto the Kings Court did go . Then to the King I bowed full low . My love and duty for to show : And so much favour I did crave , That I a Serving-mans place migt have . Stand up brave youth , the King replied , Thy service shall not be denied : But tell me first what thou canst do , Thou shalt be fitted thereunto . Wilt thou be Usher of my Hall , To wait upon my Nobles all : Or wilt thou be taster of my Wine , To wait on me when do dine ? Or wilt thou be my Chamberlain , To make my bed both soft and fine ? Or wilt thou be one of my Guard , And I will give thee thy reward ? Sweet William with a smiling face , Said to the King , ifed please your Grace , To show such favour unto me , Your Chamberlain I fain would be . The King then did the Nobles call , To ask the counsel of them all : Who gave consent sweet William he The Kings own Chamberlain should be . Now mark what strange things came to pass , As the King one day a hunting was , With all h [ i ] s Lords and Noble train , Sweet William did at home remain . Sweet William had no company then , With him at home but and old man : and when he saw the Coast was clear , He took a Lute which he had there . Upon the Lute sweet William played , And to the same he sung and said : With a pleasant and most noble voice , Which made the old man to rejoice . Sweet Williams S ong . MY Father was as brave a Lord , As ever Europe did afford , My mother was a Lady bright . My Husband was a valiant Knight . And I my self a Lady gay , Bedecked with gorgeous rich array , The bravest Lady in the land , Had not more pleasure to command . I had my music every day , Harmonious Lessons for to play : I had my Virgins fair and free , Continually to wait on me . But now alas my husband's dead , And all my friends are from me fled : My former joys are past and gone , For now I am a Servingman . The end of sweet William's Song . At last the King from hunting came , And presently upon the same , He called for the good old man , And thus to speak the King began . What news , what news , old man , quod he . What news hast thou to tell to me ? Brave news the old man he did say , Sweet Willian is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tellest to me , I , le make thee a Lord of high degree : ut if thy words do prove a Lie , Thou shalt be hanged up presently . But when the King the truth had found , His joys did more and more abound : According as the old man did say , Sweet William was a Lady gay . Therefore the King without delay , Put on her glorious rich array : And upon her head a Crown of Gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then for fear of further strife , He took sweet William for his Wife The like before was never seen , A Servingman to be a Queen . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 