The Mourning Conquest . Or , The Woman's sad Complaint , and doleful Cry , To see her Love in Fainting fits to lie . The Tune is , A loving Husband will not be unto his Wife unkind . A S I did walk abroad one time , I chanced for to see , A Youngman and a Maid , but they did not know of me ; She being in the vain then , chucked him under the chin , And smiling in his face , she said , alas poor thing . The Youngman very bashful was but had a good intent , He loved the Maid with all his heart but knew not what she meant , And much a do she had , poor heart ; this Youngman for to bring , Unto her bow , which made her cry , alas poor thing ! She by his loving Compliments , did understand and find , That she might safely let him know and understand [ and ] [ her m ] ind : Pretending for to stumble , on the ground herself did fling , And said , Sweetheart I fell by chance alas poor thing ! The youngman standing all amazed for a little space , And finding opportunity , and a conveniant place , Under a shady Bower , close by a pleasant Spring ; Upon the Maid himself he he throws , alas poor thins . I could not choose but laugh to see these two so close employed , The youngman was contented , and the Maid was over joyed , Expressing of her love , she did closely to him cling , But finding him begin to fail , alas poor thing . I TO was not long before this young man was tired with this sport , He laid him down to rest a while , he took his breath full short : She turned about , and kissed him , and did closely to him cling , Sweetheart ( quoth she ) how dost thou now , alas poor thing ! But finding him in fainting fits , she then began to weep , And with her hands she rubbed his joints to keep this Youth from sleep ; Quoth she , sweetheart , thy weakness makes my very heart to sting : Come fie , for shame rouse up thy self alas poor thing ! And coming to himself again , his face looked wondrous wan , Wishing he were as strong , as when he first with her began : And in a rage he swore , he thought no Woman ever could bring , A man so weak , which made him cry alas poor thing ! Quoth she , sweetheart , the Soldier that does venture in the field , Although at first repulsed , yet the day they will not yield : But face about , and Charge again , and take the other fling : I'll do my best to second thee , alas poor thing ! Poor heart , she did what in her lay , this Youngman's heart to cheer , By kissing him , and calling him , her Honey , and her Dear , But finding of his Courage , so sadly for to hing , Down she fell again , and cried , alas poor thing ! The youngman hearing of her moan his credit for to gain , Resolving for to try his strength , but all was spent in vain : And troubling of his love-slain mind he like a Log did cling , Which made her kick him off , & amp ; cry , alas poor thing ! So to conclude , I saw this youth , most farely beatrice in Field : The stoutest heart that ever drew , is sometime forced to yield , And so put up his Blade again , there sadly for to hing , And leave his Foe to sighs and cry , alas poor thing ! S. B. London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . The Mourning Conquest . Or , The Woman's sad Complaint , and doleful Cry , To see her Love in Fainting fits to lie . The Tune is , A loving Husband will not be unto his Wife unkind . A S I did walk abroad one time , I chanced for to see , A Youngman and a Maid , but they did not know of me ; She being in the vain then , chucked him under the chin , And smiling in his face , she said , alas poor thing . The Youngman very bashful was but had a good intent , He loved the Maid with all his heart but knew not what she meant , And much a do she had , poor heart ; this Youngman for to bring , Unto her bow , which made her cry , alas poor thing ! She by his loving Compliments , did understand and find , That she might safely let him know and understand [ and ] [ her m ] ind : Pretending for to stumble , on the ground herself did fling , And said , Sweetheart I fell by chance alas poor thing ! The youngman standing all amazed for a little space , And finding opportunity , and a conveniant place , Under a shady Bower , close by a pleasant Spring ; Upon the Maid himself he he throws , alas poor thins . I could not choose but laugh to see these two so close employed , The youngman was contented , and the Maid was over joyed , Expressing of her love , she did closely to him cling , But finding him begin to fail , alas poor thing . I TO was not long before this young man was tired with this sport , He laid him down to rest a while , he took his breath full short : She turned about , and kissed him , and did closely to him cling , Sweetheart ( quoth she ) how dost thou now , alas poor thing ! But finding him in fainting fits , she then began to weep , And with her hands she rubbed his joints to keep this Youth from sleep ; Quoth she , sweetheart , thy weakness makes my very heart to sting : Come fie , for shame rouse up thy self alas poor thing ! And coming to himself again , his face looked wondrous wan , Wishing he were as strong , as when he first with her began : And in a rage he swore , he thought no Woman ever could bring , A man so weak , which made him cry alas poor thing ! Quoth she , sweetheart , the Soldier that does venture in the field , Although at first repulsed , yet the day they will not yield : But face about , and Charge again , and take the other fling : I'll do my best to second thee , alas poor thing ! Poor heart , she did what in her lay , this Youngman's heart to cheer , By kissing him , and calling him , her Honey , and her Dear , But finding of his Courage , so sadly for to hing , Down she fell again , and cried , alas poor thing ! The youngman hearing of her moan his credit for to gain , Resolving for to try his strength , but all was spent in vain : And troubling of his love-slain mind he like a Log did cling , Which made her kick him off , & amp ; cry , alas poor thing ! So to conclude , I saw this youth , most farely beatrice in Field : The stoutest heart that ever drew , is sometime forced to yield , And so put up his Blade again , there sadly for to hing , And leave his Foe to sighs and cry , alas poor thing ! S. B. London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . 