A Merry Dialogue between a Maid and her Master , OR all Covet all Loose . All you that list to hear a jest , Give ear to what shall be expressed And you shall know what words were said Between a Master and a Maid A fter they had a bargain made This Couple drove a Subtle trade , If yowl be pleased to stay a while , I'm sure this jest will make you smile . To a delightful new Tune , called , Fill her belly full , full , Master . I Have a house trimmed up most gallant and brave And a good servant maid my desire is to have , I'll give her what wages so ever sheel crave , And I'll fill her belly full , full , She shall have her belly full , full . Maid . I am a poor Maiden and fain would do well To find a good Master if I could but tell , So that I might have meat and drink at my will And go with my belly , etc Master . Fair Maid if thou a servant wilt be And art minded for to dwell with me , So that I may enjoy thy company . Thou shalt have thy belly etc Maid . The Maidens of our Town loves good cheer , Long pudings and sweet breads all the whole year , They care not though bred corn be never so dear . oh they have their belly etc , Master . Why then fair maid thou must have a regard , To hold out thy labour be it never so hard , And for thy endeavours I will thee reward . I'll give thee thy , etc Maid Your household work Master , Ime willing to do And any thing I am desired by you I'll make your bed soft , and do th'other thing too So that I may have my , etc , Master . Fair Maid , I see thou art proper and tall Yet sometime the weakest do go to the wall But methimks a woman shows the comliest of all , When she goes with her , etc Maid . I like of your kindness and proffers to me , And your friendship to me in every degree , But the puddings and sweet breads I long for to see That I may have my belly full , full . That I might have my belly full , full , Master . TO Hen first thou must get the butchers good will to save all the sweet breads when oxen they kill That is the best way , and I'll [ u ] se my best skill Cause thou shalt have thy belly full , full , Cause thou shalt have thy belly full full . Maid . What wages kind Master pray will you give me , That I for my labour may look to receive , Pray tell me the truth that I may you believe When I go with my belly , etc Master . I'll buy thee new clothing made fit for thy back , And thou shalt each morning drink sugar and Sack , And I'll give thee a toy some pretty Maids lack , And I'll fill , etc When he had thus spoken , they jointly agreed , And twelve pence in earnest he gave her with speed And after concluded to do her a good deed ; it to fill up her , etc For the very same night the bargain was made , The Master himself went to bed with's Maid , No doubt but her wages he twice over paid For she had her belly filled , etc He gave her a breakfast as she did it call , He gave her a pudding but that was but small , She told him that she must have sweat bred & amp ; all , For to fill up , etc But after this merriment sorrow befell , The pudding he gave her made her for to swell Which caused her with tears this sad story to tell , He had filled up her belly too full , Her Master grew angry with her therefore And called her lewd strumpet , false queen and base whore And therewithal he turned her out of door , Her belly being wondrous full , Let all other Maidens that hear this new Song Take heed how they deal with a false hearted man , In trusting her Master she did her self wrong , For he filled her belly too full , etc There's choice of fine junkets for Maidens to eat , The which may be had at a very cheap rate ; But pudings and sweet breads are dangerous meat If you fill your bellies too full , If you fill your bellies too full , full . FINIS . Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere . J. Wright . and J. ClarkA Merry Dialogue between a Maid and her Master , OR all Covet all Loose . All you that list to hear a jest , Give ear to what shall be expressed And you shall know what words were said Between a Master and a Maid A fter they had a bargain made This Couple drove a Subtle trade , If yowl be pleased to stay a while , I'm sure this jest will make you smile . To a delightful new Tune , called , Fill her belly full , full , Master . I Have a house trimmed up most gallant and brave And a good servant maid my desire is to have , I'll give her what wages so ever sheel crave , And I'll fill her belly full , full , She shall have her belly full , full . Maid . I am a poor Maiden and fain would do well To find a good Master if I could but tell , So that I might have meat and drink at my will And go with my belly , etc Master . Fair Maid if thou a servant wilt be And art minded for to dwell with me , So that I may enjoy thy company . Thou shalt have thy belly etc Maid . The Maidens of our Town loves good cheer , Long pudings and sweet breads all the whole year , They care not though bred corn be never so dear . oh they have their belly etc , Master . Why then fair maid thou must have a regard , To hold out thy labour be it never so hard , And for thy endeavours I will thee reward . I'll give thee thy , etc Maid Your household work Master , Ime willing to do And any thing I am desired by you I'll make your bed soft , and do th'other thing too So that I may have my , etc , Master . Fair Maid , I see thou art proper and tall Yet sometime the weakest do go to the wall But methimks a woman shows the comliest of all , When she goes with her , etc Maid . I like of your kindness and proffers to me , And your friendship to me in every degree , But the puddings and sweet breads I long for to see That I may have my belly full , full . That I might have my belly full , full , Master . TO Hen first thou must get the butchers good will to save all the sweet breads when oxen they kill That is the best way , and I'll [ u ] se my best skill Cause thou shalt have thy belly full , full , Cause thou shalt have thy belly full full . Maid . What wages kind Master pray will you give me , That I for my labour may look to receive , Pray tell me the truth that I may you believe When I go with my belly , etc Master . I'll buy thee new clothing made fit for thy back , And thou shalt each morning drink sugar and Sack , And I'll give thee a toy some pretty Maids lack , And I'll fill , etc When he had thus spoken , they jointly agreed , And twelve pence in earnest he gave her with speed And after concluded to do her a good deed ; it to fill up her , etc For the very same night the bargain was made , The Master himself went to bed with's Maid , No doubt but her wages he twice over paid For she had her belly filled , etc He gave her a breakfast as she did it call , He gave her a pudding but that was but small , She told him that she must have sweat bred & amp ; all , For to fill up , etc But after this merriment sorrow befell , The pudding he gave her made her for to swell Which caused her with tears this sad story to tell , He had filled up her belly too full , Her Master grew angry with her therefore And called her lewd strumpet , false queen and base whore And therewithal he turned her out of door , Her belly being wondrous full , Let all other Maidens that hear this new Song Take heed how they deal with a false hearted man , In trusting her Master she did her self wrong , For he filled her belly too full , etc There's choice of fine junkets for Maidens to eat , The which may be had at a very cheap rate ; But pudings and sweet breads are dangerous meat If you fill your bellies too full , If you fill your bellies too full , full . FINIS . Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere . J. Wright . and J. Clark 