True Love rewarded with Loyalty : Or , Mirth and Joy after sorrow and sadness . This young man he did walk in pensive manner Being a Soldier under Cupids Banner , In loving terms he did express his mind Still fearing that his love will prove unkind , But she to ease him from all future pain , Did cheer his heart & amp ; grant him love again . To a new West Country tune called , Oh hark my love , or Flora Farewell . A S I walked forth to take the Air One morning musing all alone , I herd a young man full of care Thus to himself did make his moan . My dearest Dear and I must part ; So sad and heavy is my heart . It does increase my misery My Love , that I must part from thee . But no leave of my Love i'll take , I will but wander for her sake , And like Leander I will prove So true and constant to my Love . For dost thou think i'll vow and swear And not my promise to fulfil , Then deal with me as I deserve , If I be not thy true Love still . My Lands and Livings are but small For to maintain my Love withal , But with my labour and my pain My dearest Dear I will maintain , Thy Friends do owe to me a grudge Because to thee I bear good Will , But stand thou up in my defence , And I will be thy true Love still . If I had Gold and Silver store , As much as ever Cressus wone , 'Twere all too little for my Love , Considering what for me she's done . Now hand in hand with thee i'll go , Through mirth and melody , and woe , Nay through the world i'll go with thee , What ever betides to my body . The second part to the same tune . TO He palefaced Moon shall lose her light , The glorious Sun shall darkened be : And Stars shall from the Heavens fallen My Love ere I prove false to thee . There shall no Grass grow on the Plain Nor blossom bud upon the Tree All fruit shall have a deadly wound My Love ere I prove false to thee . The swiftest River shall run back The Wind shall drive the Water-mill , And the brightest day shall turn to night I f I be not thy true Love still . Thus he did languish all alone And soar he was oppressed with grief , At last his Love did hear his moan And strait she came to his Relief . The Maids Answer . My Dearest why dost thou complain And grieve thy heart since I am true , Fear not that I will thee disdain isle never change thee for a new . Thou shalt not part from me my Dear Nor wander in and unknown Land , A part in all thy grief i [ ' ] le bear And always be at thy command . As true as ever Hero was To her Leander I will prove , Were it to cross the Hellespont I would not fear to find my Love . Thy Oaths and Vows I do believe And plainly I thy Love do see , It very much my heart does grieve That thou shouldst so lament for me . What though my friends do at thee frown And will not yield I should thee Love Fear not since I will be thy own . And constant ever I will prove . The Lambs shall with the Lyons play And timorous Hares the Hounds pursue , The Elements shall pass away Ever I to thee will prove untrue , No Snow shall lie upon the Alpes Nor flames break out from Aetna's Hill The w ild Beasts shall forsake their walks If I be not thy true love still . Therefore my Dear , let sorrow cease And come for to embrace thy own , Which w ill my former joys increase For thee I love and thee alone . The Conclusion . When he had herd her sweet Reply His dying spirits did revive Quoth he for Love I will not die I am the happiest man alive . Blessed be the time that my true Love Did hither come to cheer my heart Her constancy I now do prove Nothing but death shall us two part . Great joy there w as w hen they did meet . And loving Compliments did pass , And many times w ith kisses sweet He did embrace his amorous Lass. Let all young Lovers that do hear This Song , be faithful to their choice , Then each one may enjoy their Dear Which does true Lovers much rejoice . Printed for W. Thackery , and T. PassengerTrue Love rewarded with Loyalty : Or , Mirth and Joy after sorrow and sadness . This young man he did walk in pensive manner Being a Soldier under Cupids Banner , In loving terms he did express his mind Still fearing that his love will prove unkind , But she to ease him from all future pain , Did cheer his heart & amp ; grant him love again . To a new West Country tune called , Oh hark my love , or Flora Farewell . A S I walked forth to take the Air One morning musing all alone , I herd a young man full of care Thus to himself did make his moan . My dearest Dear and I must part ; So sad and heavy is my heart . It does increase my misery My Love , that I must part from thee . But no leave of my Love i'll take , I will but wander for her sake , And like Leander I will prove So true and constant to my Love . For dost thou think i'll vow and swear And not my promise to fulfil , Then deal with me as I deserve , If I be not thy true Love still . My Lands and Livings are but small For to maintain my Love withal , But with my labour and my pain My dearest Dear I will maintain , Thy Friends do owe to me a grudge Because to thee I bear good Will , But stand thou up in my defence , And I will be thy true Love still . If I had Gold and Silver store , As much as ever Cressus wone , 'Twere all too little for my Love , Considering what for me she's done . Now hand in hand with thee i'll go , Through mirth and melody , and woe , Nay through the world i'll go with thee , What ever betides to my body . The second part to the same tune . TO He palefaced Moon shall lose her light , The glorious Sun shall darkened be : And Stars shall from the Heavens fallen My Love ere I prove false to thee . There shall no Grass grow on the Plain Nor blossom bud upon the Tree All fruit shall have a deadly wound My Love ere I prove false to thee . The swiftest River shall run back The Wind shall drive the Water-mill , And the brightest day shall turn to night I f I be not thy true Love still . Thus he did languish all alone And soar he was oppressed with grief , At last his Love did hear his moan And strait she came to his Relief . The Maids Answer . My Dearest why dost thou complain And grieve thy heart since I am true , Fear not that I will thee disdain isle never change thee for a new . Thou shalt not part from me my Dear Nor wander in and unknown Land , A part in all thy grief i [ ' ] le bear And always be at thy command . As true as ever Hero was To her Leander I will prove , Were it to cross the Hellespont I would not fear to find my Love . Thy Oaths and Vows I do believe And plainly I thy Love do see , It very much my heart does grieve That thou shouldst so lament for me . What though my friends do at thee frown And will not yield I should thee Love Fear not since I will be thy own . And constant ever I will prove . The Lambs shall with the Lyons play And timorous Hares the Hounds pursue , The Elements shall pass away Ever I to thee will prove untrue , No Snow shall lie upon the Alpes Nor flames break out from Aetna's Hill The w ild Beasts shall forsake their walks If I be not thy true love still . Therefore my Dear , let sorrow cease And come for to embrace thy own , Which w ill my former joys increase For thee I love and thee alone . The Conclusion . When he had herd her sweet Reply His dying spirits did revive Quoth he for Love I will not die I am the happiest man alive . Blessed be the time that my true Love Did hither come to cheer my heart Her constancy I now do prove Nothing but death shall us two part . Great joy there w as w hen they did meet . And loving Compliments did pass , And many times w ith kisses sweet He did embrace his amorous Lass. Let all young Lovers that do hear This Song , be faithful to their choice , Then each one may enjoy their Dear Which does true Lovers much rejoice . Printed for W. Thackery , and T. Passenger 