The Young-Man [ ' ] s New Way OF COURT-SHIP : Wherein he shows the Willingness of all Young Maidens to Comply with Men's Desires , notwithstanding their seeming-Coyness . And likewise the good Entertainment he [ re ] ceived from them , and the Bountiful Gi [ f ] ts bestowed on him , to his great Joy and Satisfaction . This Young-Man go [ e ] s awooing , and pretends To Court fine Girls , but it's for his own ends For when that he his will of them has had , He straiga [ w ] ay leaves them full of grief , & amp ; sad To a pleasant New Tune , called , The Ramp . C Ome brave Youngmen lend and ear , Hear is my art of Courting rare ; I am a Gallant belongs to the trade , To Kiss and Court a pretty Maid : When under her Apron I do peep , My mind does wander and does creep To be Courting , and Sporting , Like Hero and Leander . When I first into England came , I thought Courting was a pretty Game ; And it much Delighted me , To dance a Lady on my Knee : But now good Sir , I need Court none , For first comes Betty , and then comes Jone ; With a tread on my toe , she answers so , Then to the Tavern walk we . The Second Part , To the same Tune . I N the Tavern we have Wine good store , We sing and Drink , and likewise Roar ; Run Drawer , run , then we do cry , There's none leads so merry a life as I : For hear we fit from morning till night , And spend our time in rare Delight : In Closets warm we catch no harm , In time of all our Sporting : When night comes on , away I'm gone , And leaves the Reckoning to pay , alone : So I do serve them day by day , I scorn a Farthing for to pay . These Girls to me are all alike , For if I see Gold to be sure I'll strike : But if they have none , away I am gone , my Company's not for them . In London I have Girls good store , And likewise all the Country over , For rare Delights in every part , Able to Captivate a Souliers heart : He would be glad to loose the Field , To see the rare Delights they yield : With a Rampo , I please them so , They Sing and Dance Couragio . Sometime my Girls will come Aboard ; With Cakes and Bottles of wine well stored , Then down we fit upon the dack , We break their Cakes and drink their Sack ; And when we have done we walk below , Where Amorous Sport to my Girls I show : With a Rampo I please her so , She Laughs outright Couragio . So I Court Marry , Betty , Jone , For I am resolved to marry with none ; For if they ask me for to marry , I whisper Jone and bids her tarry : And straight I unto Betty high , And puts her off with some new Reply ; So farily and warily , I shake her off most rarely . This is the rare Delight of mine , I eat good Cakes , and Drink good Wine : My Girls will give me Gold good store , To buy New Clothes when mine are tore : I nothing for my House-Rent pay , For with my Girls I am every day , In Closets warm , we catch no harm , In time of all our Sporting . Thus you see how bravely I live , I always take and nothing give , Yet still I am both fine and brave , And what I want I always have : For if I do but say the Word , They know I must not be withstood : It's my Delight both day and night , To be trading with young Wenches . FINIS . London , Printed for James Gilbertson , next doro to the Sun and Bible on London-Bridge . The Young-Man [ ' ] s New Way OF COURT-SHIP : Wherein he shows the Willingness of all Young Maidens to Comply with Men's Desires , notwithstanding their seeming-Coyness . And likewise the good Entertainment he [ re ] ceived from them , and the Bountiful Gi [ f ] ts bestowed on him , to his great Joy and Satisfaction . This Young-Man go [ e ] s awooing , and pretends To Court fine Girls , but it's for his own ends For when that he his will of them has had , He straiga [ w ] ay leaves them full of grief , & amp ; sad To a pleasant New Tune , called , The Ramp . C Ome brave Youngmen lend and ear , Hear is my art of Courting rare ; I am a Gallant belongs to the trade , To Kiss and Court a pretty Maid : When under her Apron I do peep , My mind does wander and does creep To be Courting , and Sporting , Like Hero and Leander . When I first into England came , I thought Courting was a pretty Game ; And it much Delighted me , To dance a Lady on my Knee : But now good Sir , I need Court none , For first comes Betty , and then comes Jone ; With a tread on my toe , she answers so , Then to the Tavern walk we . The Second Part , To the same Tune . I N the Tavern we have Wine good store , We sing and Drink , and likewise Roar ; Run Drawer , run , then we do cry , There's none leads so merry a life as I : For hear we fit from morning till night , And spend our time in rare Delight : In Closets warm we catch no harm , In time of all our Sporting : When night comes on , away I'm gone , And leaves the Reckoning to pay , alone : So I do serve them day by day , I scorn a Farthing for to pay . These Girls to me are all alike , For if I see Gold to be sure I'll strike : But if they have none , away I am gone , my Company's not for them . In London I have Girls good store , And likewise all the Country over , For rare Delights in every part , Able to Captivate a Souliers heart : He would be glad to loose the Field , To see the rare Delights they yield : With a Rampo , I please them so , They Sing and Dance Couragio . Sometime my Girls will come Aboard ; With Cakes and Bottles of wine well stored , Then down we fit upon the dack , We break their Cakes and drink their Sack ; And when we have done we walk below , Where Amorous Sport to my Girls I show : With a Rampo I please her so , She Laughs outright Couragio . So I Court Marry , Betty , Jone , For I am resolved to marry with none ; For if they ask me for to marry , I whisper Jone and bids her tarry : And straight I unto Betty high , And puts her off with some new Reply ; So farily and warily , I shake her off most rarely . This is the rare Delight of mine , I eat good Cakes , and Drink good Wine : My Girls will give me Gold good store , To buy New Clothes when mine are tore : I nothing for my House-Rent pay , For with my Girls I am every day , In Closets warm , we catch no harm , In time of all our Sporting . Thus you see how bravely I live , I always take and nothing give , Yet still I am both fine and brave , And what I want I always have : For if I do but say the Word , They know I must not be withstood : It's my Delight both day and night , To be trading with young Wenches . FINIS . London , Printed for James Gilbertson , next doro to the Sun and Bible on London-Bridge . 