The Doubting Virgin ; AND The Constant Youngman . Observe what here is put in print , All you that do love merriment : It's for Young Men and Maids also , Stay and heard over before you go . Tune of Reprieved Captive . By Tobias brown . O my Dearest do not slight me , for my love to thee is true , There is none but thee can right me , never change me for anew : You intrude me , and delude me , I think you cannot it deny , Now you leave me and deceive me , but can show no reason why . I wonder youngmen are so crossful , since Virgins are so full of love , That makes Maids to be so bashful , thinking how youngmen will prove But if in proving , they were loving , as they formerly pretend ; Then how neatly and completely should we live till life does end . The men Answer . O my dear , why dost thou doubt me that to thee I'll prove unkind , I think my self not well without thee , thou art always in my mind ? If I do leave thee , or deceive thee , then I wish nothing may thrive , Nor let never my endeavour prosper while I am alive THAT ou art she whom I love dearly , what can any Man say more , This is my mind I speak it freely , I never said so much before : Then sweet believe me , for it did grieve me to hear the moan my Love did make , My dearest Love i'll constant prove or believe no Man for my sake . The Maids Answer . My dear , what can there be expected , while that we on earth do dwell , Let not true love be neglected , then will every thing do well ? This my speeches , though we have riches my sweetheart I you call , For all the money , my dear honey , true Love is the best of all . Suppose that we had all the treasure that's in England to be seen , Or if that we had all the pleasure that belongeth to a Queen . Observe my speeches , I mean the riches that upon some men do fallen , For all their pleasure , and their treasure . true Love is the best of all , The Man. Why do you use such expressions unto me who am your own . My heart you have in your possession , unto you it is well known ? prey never doubt it , nor pause about it , my dearest love it's thou art she , Water shall burn , and Wind never turn , if that I prove false to thee This full glass I hope to drink it , in remembrance of my dear , Happy is the hour I think it , that I met my true love here . Now in pleasure without measure , we will pass the time away , Come my sweet heart we'll kiss and part for now we can no longer stay . So they parted for that instant , they both then were firm and true , If all young people were so constant , what needs there be so much ado ? There needs no weeping , nor lost sleeping if they did in love agree , Nor no shaking , nor heart breaking , pray observe this thing from me . FINIS . Printed for P. B rooksby at the G olden B all in Pie-corner . The Doubting Virgin ; AND The Constant Youngman . Observe what here is put in print , All you that do love merriment : It's for Young Men and Maids also , Stay and heard over before you go . Tune of Reprieved Captive . By Tobias brown . O my Dearest do not slight me , for my love to thee is true , There is none but thee can right me , never change me for anew : You intrude me , and delude me , I think you cannot it deny , Now you leave me and deceive me , but can show no reason why . I wonder youngmen are so crossful , since Virgins are so full of love , That makes Maids to be so bashful , thinking how youngmen will prove But if in proving , they were loving , as they formerly pretend ; Then how neatly and completely should we live till life does end . The men Answer . O my dear , why dost thou doubt me that to thee I'll prove unkind , I think my self not well without thee , thou art always in my mind ? If I do leave thee , or deceive thee , then I wish nothing may thrive , Nor let never my endeavour prosper while I am alive THAT ou art she whom I love dearly , what can any Man say more , This is my mind I speak it freely , I never said so much before : Then sweet believe me , for it did grieve me to hear the moan my Love did make , My dearest Love i'll constant prove or believe no Man for my sake . The Maids Answer . My dear , what can there be expected , while that we on earth do dwell , Let not true love be neglected , then will every thing do well ? This my speeches , though we have riches my sweetheart I you call , For all the money , my dear honey , true Love is the best of all . Suppose that we had all the treasure that's in England to be seen , Or if that we had all the pleasure that belongeth to a Queen . Observe my speeches , I mean the riches that upon some men do fallen , For all their pleasure , and their treasure . true Love is the best of all , The Man. Why do you use such expressions unto me who am your own . My heart you have in your possession , unto you it is well known ? prey never doubt it , nor pause about it , my dearest love it's thou art she , Water shall burn , and Wind never turn , if that I prove false to thee This full glass I hope to drink it , in remembrance of my dear , Happy is the hour I think it , that I met my true love here . Now in pleasure without measure , we will pass the time away , Come my sweet heart we'll kiss and part for now we can no longer stay . So they parted for that instant , they both then were firm and true , If all young people were so constant , what needs there be so much ado ? There needs no weeping , nor lost sleeping if they did in love agree , Nor no shaking , nor heart breaking , pray observe this thing from me . FINIS . Printed for P. B rooksby at the G olden B all in Pie-corner . 