The English Fortune-Teller . [ B ] eing a brief direction to shun all strife , A brief instruction how to choose a Wife ; Whereby a man may led a happy life . It shows a difference in woman's qualities , By colour of their hair , both face & amp ; eyes . The Tune is , Ragged and torn , etc Y Ou youngmen that want skill in wooing , and if you desire to be wed , Take counsel of me in your doing for fear that you should be misled , Do not my kind proffer refuse , for it will never you deceive : 'Twill show you what woman to choose , and what creature you'd best for to leave : But chiefly I'ld wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye : For she that will cozen and swear , will also dissemble and lie . I'th first place I do you advice , take one not too high nor too low , But according to your one size , that you may her qualities know : Take one not too young nor too old , nor one that's too fat nor too lean ; This a bad thing to met with a scold , it's a worse thing to meet with a Quean , But chiefly , etc Take one that is not too proud , nor one that's a dirty foul slut , The one may babble too loud , the other may poison the gut . This better to wed and honest maid , although she be never so poor , Than to wed a rich Gossip it's said , if afterwards she should turn Whore . But chiefly , etc A widow whose wealth does surmount , if that you do marry for gain , Shee'l call you to double account , and your pleasures will turn to your pain : Beside she is apt to be jealous , which is the forerunner of strife , As good to be hanged at a Gallows , as marry with such a cross wife . But chiefly , etc And now in the second place I am purposed for recite , My skill in Physiiognomy , wherein I will show you aright , Byth'colour of hair on the head , or else by the favour or face , You may know with whom for to wed ; and who you had best to embrace , But chiefly , etc The man that will choose him a Mate , by colour of Hair or comlexion , Must choose many ways intricate , lest he be brought under subjection , He must view both her forehead and brow , her Cheeks , Eyes , Nose , and her Chin. G Odd Cupid those things does allow , when first to woe you do begin . But chiefly , etc All is not Gold which Glisters , nor it is not all led that looks dull : Fair Venus the chief of the Sisters , made Vulcan her husband a Gull , So many times beautiful Lasses will jeer their poor husbands in scorn , And cunningly break all their Glasses , and make them drink out of a Horn . But chiefly , etc She that hath her hair of bright yellow , and traces the wyers of Gold , If she meet with a pretty fellow , her husband may chance to be Cuckold : And she that by nature's composed , of round Cherry Cheeks and read hair , If she be pink-eyed and long nosed , believe me she's dangerous ware . But chiefly , etc The brown hair with a witty discourse , but commonly for their own ends ; I like her a great deal the worse , because she'l dissemble with her friends [ , ] A Wench with and ash-coloured face , her actions are often uncivil , Her tongue will her husband disgrace , just like the second she-devil . But chiefly , etc The bonny Wench with the black-brow , o she is a good one indeed : For she will be true to her vow , I would we had more of her breed : And thus I have told you my mind , concerning Physiognomy , I mean no wrong to women kind , I swear by my honesty . Lest I should some female offend , I'll lay by my pen and rest , What ever in this Ditty is penned , let young men take where they love best . Yet thus much i'll speak in regard , and i'll maintain my words in a trice , Some women may well be compared , to the best chance or worst of the Dice , Suppose a youngman goes to Dice , and ventures his goods and his store , If he can throw Conque or a Sice , the game's his own forever more : But if that his fortune be crossed , that he throws but a Deuce or and Ace , His goods and his substance is lost , and he's left in a pitiful case . Suppose in like case , if a Lad , can get him a provident wife , His fortune can never be bad , he's made all the days of his life : But if that dame fortune do frown , that his wife and he cannot agree ; He is quite for ever cast down , by woeful experience we see . And now noble Young men adieu ' remember the words which I say , This song's like to prove to be true , then buy it and bear it away . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The English Fortune-Teller . [ B ] eing a brief direction to shun all strife , A brief instruction how to choose a Wife ; Whereby a man may led a happy life . It shows a difference in woman's qualities , By colour of their hair , both face & amp ; eyes . The Tune is , Ragged and torn , etc Y Ou youngmen that want skill in wooing , and if you desire to be wed , Take counsel of me in your doing for fear that you should be misled , Do not my kind proffer refuse , for it will never you deceive : 'Twill show you what woman to choose , and what creature you'd best for to leave : But chiefly I'ld wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye : For she that will cozen and swear , will also dissemble and lie . I'th first place I do you advice , take one not too high nor too low , But according to your one size , that you may her qualities know : Take one not too young nor too old , nor one that's too fat nor too lean ; This a bad thing to met with a scold , it's a worse thing to meet with a Quean , But chiefly , etc Take one that is not too proud , nor one that's a dirty foul slut , The one may babble too loud , the other may poison the gut . This better to wed and honest maid , although she be never so poor , Than to wed a rich Gossip it's said , if afterwards she should turn Whore . But chiefly , etc A widow whose wealth does surmount , if that you do marry for gain , Shee'l call you to double account , and your pleasures will turn to your pain : Beside she is apt to be jealous , which is the forerunner of strife , As good to be hanged at a Gallows , as marry with such a cross wife . But chiefly , etc And now in the second place I am purposed for recite , My skill in Physiiognomy , wherein I will show you aright , Byth'colour of hair on the head , or else by the favour or face , You may know with whom for to wed ; and who you had best to embrace , But chiefly , etc The man that will choose him a Mate , by colour of Hair or comlexion , Must choose many ways intricate , lest he be brought under subjection , He must view both her forehead and brow , her Cheeks , Eyes , Nose , and her Chin. G Odd Cupid those things does allow , when first to woe you do begin . But chiefly , etc All is not Gold which Glisters , nor it is not all led that looks dull : Fair Venus the chief of the Sisters , made Vulcan her husband a Gull , So many times beautiful Lasses will jeer their poor husbands in scorn , And cunningly break all their Glasses , and make them drink out of a Horn . But chiefly , etc She that hath her hair of bright yellow , and traces the wyers of Gold , If she meet with a pretty fellow , her husband may chance to be Cuckold : And she that by nature's composed , of round Cherry Cheeks and read hair , If she be pink-eyed and long nosed , believe me she's dangerous ware . But chiefly , etc The brown hair with a witty discourse , but commonly for their own ends ; I like her a great deal the worse , because she'l dissemble with her friends [ , ] A Wench with and ash-coloured face , her actions are often uncivil , Her tongue will her husband disgrace , just like the second she-devil . But chiefly , etc The bonny Wench with the black-brow , o she is a good one indeed : For she will be true to her vow , I would we had more of her breed : And thus I have told you my mind , concerning Physiognomy , I mean no wrong to women kind , I swear by my honesty . Lest I should some female offend , I'll lay by my pen and rest , What ever in this Ditty is penned , let young men take where they love best . Yet thus much i'll speak in regard , and i'll maintain my words in a trice , Some women may well be compared , to the best chance or worst of the Dice , Suppose a youngman goes to Dice , and ventures his goods and his store , If he can throw Conque or a Sice , the game's his own forever more : But if that his fortune be crossed , that he throws but a Deuce or and Ace , His goods and his substance is lost , and he's left in a pitiful case . Suppose in like case , if a Lad , can get him a provident wife , His fortune can never be bad , he's made all the days of his life : But if that dame fortune do frown , that his wife and he cannot agree ; He is quite for ever cast down , by woeful experience we see . And now noble Young men adieu ' remember the words which I say , This song's like to prove to be true , then buy it and bear it away . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 