The COY COOK-MAID , Who was Courted importunately by Irish , Welch , Spanish , French , and Dutch , but at last was conquered by a poor English Taylor . Tune of , There was a brisk Lass , etc This may be printed , R. P , JOan scrubbed up her Rooms , made all things clean , The Tables , the Chairs , & amp ; the edge of the skreen , She scoured each Pisspot and Pewter dish , Made e'ry thing clean as heart could wish ; The Pewter and Brass was so very clear , That wanting a Glass , she oft drew near To deck up her head and curl her hair , Not one among twenty with her could compare . She made her Plumb-Pottage & amp ; sweet-minc'd-Pies , The Rost-Beef was laid down when she did rise ; Dinner was ready , and likeed so well , Not one among twenty could Joan excel ; They praised her so much that Joan grew proud , And then she began to prate aloud , I will have a Husband oft she cried , A pretty youngman to lie by my side . Then out stepped a Scot with blue Bonnet on , He looked full as big as a Spanish DONE ; His Pistol was under his checkered Plade , His Whinyard was made of a Bilbo blade : Quoth he , bred a gad , the day's mine awn , I'm as bonny a fallow as ever was knawn , I'm will would this Lassee before I'm gang heam , She'l mack me geud Langkeal to fill my weam . He came to salute her , but Joan was mad . And called the poor Scotch - man a saucy lad , She took up the Ladle and broke his pate , And told him he proffered his love too late : Deel blin you , quoth Sawny , you nasty slut , The muckle Deel stop [ Hemp ] in your gut , I'm naw se [ e ] k Jo [ and to by my wife , ] She'l e'ne [ mack me weary of my life , ] Then a fine French-man took his place , His Cravat and Ruffles were all of Lace . [ S ] aid he , Begarr me come to dis place , Me be much in love vid your sweet face , Me no like no Lady vidin this Town , Begarr me no like dem , they for much frown ; Me have seen all , me tink ders's none That may be compared vid Missis Joan . Me be resolve to loose my life But me will have Joan to be my Wife : Joan looked about , and then replied , The Devil shall be the French-mans Bride ; March to your Portage you sinical Knave , I'll never go to France to be your slave ; Get you out of the Kitchen , or else by Mars This swinging Spit shall run through your A ---- Poor Monsieur looked blank and sneaked away , For his Wife nor his life he durst not stay ; Then entered and Irish-man and swore The noise of her beauty brought him over ; My naam is Teague , and by my Shalwaashon I prize die faash above all in the Naashon , Den preddee dear Joy come kish my sweet faash , By Shaint Phaatrick I never will leave dish plaash . I have a Potato-plat of my own , And a shneeshing-boxh , 'tis very well known ; I have a schullogue to run by my shide , Ifait and trote thou shalt be my Bride . Be gone bogg-trotter , then Joan did cry , Or the broomstick shall on your shoulders lie , Pack up your Awl , and make short of your story , Or I'll make you pay dear for your vainglory . A Seaman from Holland then entered the list , As drunken a Rascal as ever pist ; He brought in his hand a bottle of Nans , And swore 'twas the famousest liquour in France ; It'll make you Dutch Spraagen before it be noon , Be gone ( said she ) you drunken Clown , I'll pull the blue Rug from off your pate If you offer to stay with Joan to prate . And then Jack Spaniard began to vaper , With a mighty short Cloak and a very long Rapier He offered his Service and proudly did strut , But Joan went and gave him a kick with her foot ; You insolent Dog ( quoth she ) be gone , There's none I hate more than a Spanish DONE , I mean not to wait upon such a proud sinner While he is a pampering his Guts at dinner . The Welch-man hearing the rest were gone , Resolved that he would be with her anon , With Leek in his Hat , on St. Taffy is day He came to Joan , and thus he did say : Her was a brave gentleman in Wales , Her has a cood land , cots-plutter-a-nails Her has a fine Goat , and her makes sheese , Was her make her a lady if now her please . But Joan protested she hated them all , And swore to be at and English men call ; She knew their humours and did not doubt B ut some or other would choose her out : At last she married a Taylor good lord , And he the greasy Frigate did board ; They both were well pleased and kindly agreed , And she from the rest of her Suitors was freed . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in Py-Corner . The COY COOK-MAID , Who was Courted importunately by Irish , Welch , Spanish , French , and Dutch , but at last was conquered by a poor English Taylor . Tune of , There was a brisk Lass , etc This may be printed , R. P , JOan scrubbed up her Rooms , made all things clean , The Tables , the Chairs , & amp ; the edge of the skreen , She scoured each Pisspot and Pewter dish , Made e'ry thing clean as heart could wish ; The Pewter and Brass was so very clear , That wanting a Glass , she oft drew near To deck up her head and curl her hair , Not one among twenty with her could compare . She made her Plumb-Pottage & amp ; sweet-minc'd-Pies , The Rost-Beef was laid down when she did rise ; Dinner was ready , and likeed so well , Not one among twenty could Joan excel ; They praised her so much that Joan grew proud , And then she began to prate aloud , I will have a Husband oft she cried , A pretty youngman to lie by my side . Then out stepped a Scot with blue Bonnet on , He looked full as big as a Spanish DONE ; His Pistol was under his checkered Plade , His Whinyard was made of a Bilbo blade : Quoth he , bred a gad , the day's mine awn , I'm as bonny a fallow as ever was knawn , I'm will would this Lassee before I'm gang heam , She'l mack me geud Langkeal to fill my weam . He came to salute her , but Joan was mad . And called the poor Scotch - man a saucy lad , She took up the Ladle and broke his pate , And told him he proffered his love too late : Deel blin you , quoth Sawny , you nasty slut , The muckle Deel stop [ Hemp ] in your gut , I'm naw se [ e ] k Jo [ and to by my wife , ] She'l e'ne [ mack me weary of my life , ] Then a fine French-man took his place , His Cravat and Ruffles were all of Lace . [ S ] aid he , Begarr me come to dis place , Me be much in love vid your sweet face , Me no like no Lady vidin this Town , Begarr me no like dem , they for much frown ; Me have seen all , me tink ders's none That may be compared vid Missis Joan . Me be resolve to loose my life But me will have Joan to be my Wife : Joan looked about , and then replied , The Devil shall be the French-mans Bride ; March to your Portage you sinical Knave , I'll never go to France to be your slave ; Get you out of the Kitchen , or else by Mars This swinging Spit shall run through your A ---- Poor Monsieur looked blank and sneaked away , For his Wife nor his life he durst not stay ; Then entered and Irish-man and swore The noise of her beauty brought him over ; My naam is Teague , and by my Shalwaashon I prize die faash above all in the Naashon , Den preddee dear Joy come kish my sweet faash , By Shaint Phaatrick I never will leave dish plaash . I have a Potato-plat of my own , And a shneeshing-boxh , 'tis very well known ; I have a schullogue to run by my shide , Ifait and trote thou shalt be my Bride . Be gone bogg-trotter , then Joan did cry , Or the broomstick shall on your shoulders lie , Pack up your Awl , and make short of your story , Or I'll make you pay dear for your vainglory . A Seaman from Holland then entered the list , As drunken a Rascal as ever pist ; He brought in his hand a bottle of Nans , And swore 'twas the famousest liquour in France ; It'll make you Dutch Spraagen before it be noon , Be gone ( said she ) you drunken Clown , I'll pull the blue Rug from off your pate If you offer to stay with Joan to prate . And then Jack Spaniard began to vaper , With a mighty short Cloak and a very long Rapier He offered his Service and proudly did strut , But Joan went and gave him a kick with her foot ; You insolent Dog ( quoth she ) be gone , There's none I hate more than a Spanish DONE , I mean not to wait upon such a proud sinner While he is a pampering his Guts at dinner . The Welch-man hearing the rest were gone , Resolved that he would be with her anon , With Leek in his Hat , on St. Taffy is day He came to Joan , and thus he did say : Her was a brave gentleman in Wales , Her has a cood land , cots-plutter-a-nails Her has a fine Goat , and her makes sheese , Was her make her a lady if now her please . But Joan protested she hated them all , And swore to be at and English men call ; She knew their humours and did not doubt B ut some or other would choose her out : At last she married a Taylor good lord , And he the greasy Frigate did board ; They both were well pleased and kindly agreed , And she from the rest of her Suitors was freed . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in Py-Corner . 