A New SONG of a Fickle and Unconstant LOVER , Who gave her Sweetheart the occasion of writing these following Lines . Dissembling Lovers ought to be abhorred , As constant Lovers ought to be adored : A faithful Lover I will crown with fame , But faithless Lovers with eternal shame . A Lover like to mine all mortals hate ; But the true Lover should not meet ill fate : To her whose love and whose affection's true , My Knees as at and Altar , still shall bow . To a new Play-House Tune . This may be printed , R. P. O H ! so ungrateful a Creature never could I thought you to be ; First to abuse my good Nature , laugh at my simplicity ! You above all had least reason so to abuse my poor heart ; But if another had done it , you ought to have taken my part . Curse of your cunning proceeding ; curse of your p [ ri ] vate and more ; While my poor heart lies a bleeding , may you be double cursed over . Was you but kind as you are cruel , then you may talk of a bliss ; But you preserve me for fuel : o ! what a Tyrant is this ! Ever since my sorrows has lasted , here you triumph in disdain ; Now may your Beauty be blasted , never returning again : My height of Anger advances , Love I have turned to Hate ; Why should these beautiful glances kill at so cruel a rate ? The Second Part , to the same Tune . May Cupid revenge this affront and gall your dissembling heart : May you love and be hated still by the force of his wounding Dart. May you sighs , may you weep and howl for some pretty fellow in vain : May you dote upon some silly Owl , that never can love you again . May you pine like a whey-faced Lass with the Greensickness overpressed ; And still as the streets you pass , may you cry out for rest . And may all young maids beware how ever they prove false to their Love , Lest they be catched in your snare , from whence they shall never remove . Nothing by me is more hated than a dissembling Heart ; See how the Argument's stated , ' twounds with the cruelest smart : But a true Lover i'll honour , she that is free from that blame , Evermore doting upon her , Crown her with Glory and Fame . This pity is taken away , this shame does remain in its place , Thy love is gone far astray , and paleness triumphs in thy Face . Go Love if thou canst , but I fear it's in vain that Lesson to learn : Thou that once was my Love and my Dear , no Beauty in thee I discern . But shall I blame all for thee , because of thy fickle disdain , Some Shepherdess often we see constant and kind to her Swain : Such Lovers shall Garlands wear , such I must needs commend ; For such I will always appear until my frail life shall END . Printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . Where any Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of new and old Songs . A New SONG of a Fickle and Unconstant LOVER , Who gave her Sweetheart the occasion of writing these following Lines . Dissembling Lovers ought to be abhorred , As constant Lovers ought to be adored : A faithful Lover I will crown with fame , But faithless Lovers with eternal shame . A Lover like to mine all mortals hate ; But the true Lover should not meet ill fate : To her whose love and whose affection's true , My Knees as at and Altar , still shall bow . To a new Play-House Tune . This may be printed , R. P. O H ! so ungrateful a Creature never could I thought you to be ; First to abuse my good Nature , laugh at my simplicity ! You above all had least reason so to abuse my poor heart ; But if another had done it , you ought to have taken my part . Curse of your cunning proceeding ; curse of your p [ ri ] vate and more ; While my poor heart lies a bleeding , may you be double cursed over . Was you but kind as you are cruel , then you may talk of a bliss ; But you preserve me for fuel : o ! what a Tyrant is this ! Ever since my sorrows has lasted , here you triumph in disdain ; Now may your Beauty be blasted , never returning again : My height of Anger advances , Love I have turned to Hate ; Why should these beautiful glances kill at so cruel a rate ? The Second Part , to the same Tune . May Cupid revenge this affront and gall your dissembling heart : May you love and be hated still by the force of his wounding Dart. May you sighs , may you weep and howl for some pretty fellow in vain : May you dote upon some silly Owl , that never can love you again . May you pine like a whey-faced Lass with the Greensickness overpressed ; And still as the streets you pass , may you cry out for rest . And may all young maids beware how ever they prove false to their Love , Lest they be catched in your snare , from whence they shall never remove . Nothing by me is more hated than a dissembling Heart ; See how the Argument's stated , ' twounds with the cruelest smart : But a true Lover i'll honour , she that is free from that blame , Evermore doting upon her , Crown her with Glory and Fame . This pity is taken away , this shame does remain in its place , Thy love is gone far astray , and paleness triumphs in thy Face . Go Love if thou canst , but I fear it's in vain that Lesson to learn : Thou that once was my Love and my Dear , no Beauty in thee I discern . But shall I blame all for thee , because of thy fickle disdain , Some Shepherdess often we see constant and kind to her Swain : Such Lovers shall Garlands wear , such I must needs commend ; For such I will always appear until my frail life shall END . Printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . Where any Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of new and old Songs . 