LOVE in a Bush : OR , TO [ h ] e two Loyal Lovers Joy completed . She seemed to slight her Hearts delight , which cause d him to complain : But when she see his Loyalty , she made him glad again . Tune of , O so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed . R. P. ONe Evening in Summer season , when each Lad walks with his Lass , In the cool shades which are pleasing , as by a Grove I did pass , My wandering fancy contenting , musing my self all alone , I herd a youngman lamenting , making this sorrowful moan . O cruel Maid ! thus to slight me whom you once loved so dear ; There is no thing can delight me , since my fate is so sovere , Just in the height of my Blessing to turn my pleasure to pain ; And when I should be possessing , to cure me with her disdain . You little Birds that flock hither , and in this Grove do abide , Witness how oft she vowed never nothing our Hearts should divide : Yet now her love it is ended , and I the cause cannot tell ; If I have ever offended , it was in loving too well . When I , with sorrow surrounded , move her to pity my pain , The more I sue I am wounded with the Darts of her disdain : If that the love of another makes her deny me relief , Yet I for ever will love her , though she's the cause of my grief . O you kind powers befriend me , and in her Breast pity move , That she some comfort may send me , since I so constant do prove : Though she give me a denial , thus by her unconstancy , Yet I will ever be loyal , and her true Lover will die . When he had ended this Ditty , he was about to depart ; Then a young Damosel most pretty out of a Bush there did start : Who to the youngman then going , Let not sad Grief thee annoy : Thus she said while Tears was flowing with the Excess of her joy . Dearest , since I unperceived herd you your passion express , And thereby my doubts relieved , now I the truth will confess : To try your Love I denied you , which since I find to be true ; I will love no one beside you , therefore bid Sorrow adieu . Though I did seem so ungrateful as your true Love do disdain , Yet in my heart I was faithful , and so I still will remain : Happy is she , my dear jewel , that such a Lover can find ; Ah! who could ever be cruel to one so constant and kind ? All the sad grief you endured was for my sake I do know ; Therefore you may be assured that I my Heart will bestow On thee without a denial ; witness you Powers above , That I will ever be loyal and true to thee my dear Love . Thus with sweet kisses expressing unto the youngman her mind , Who wrapped with joy such a Blessing so unexpected to find , Gave her a thousand sweet Kisses , both their joys then was complete . There is no Maiden but wishes such a true Lover to meet . Printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West Smithfield . LOVE in a Bush : OR , TO [ h ] e two Loyal Lovers Joy completed . She seemed to slight her Hearts delight , which cause d him to complain : But when she see his Loyalty , she made him glad again . Tune of , O so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed . R. P. ONe Evening in Summer season , when each Lad walks with his Lass , In the cool shades which are pleasing , as by a Grove I did pass , My wandering fancy contenting , musing my self all alone , I herd a youngman lamenting , making this sorrowful moan . O cruel Maid ! thus to slight me whom you once loved so dear ; There is no thing can delight me , since my fate is so sovere , Just in the height of my Blessing to turn my pleasure to pain ; And when I should be possessing , to cure me with her disdain . You little Birds that flock hither , and in this Grove do abide , Witness how oft she vowed never nothing our Hearts should divide : Yet now her love it is ended , and I the cause cannot tell ; If I have ever offended , it was in loving too well . When I , with sorrow surrounded , move her to pity my pain , The more I sue I am wounded with the Darts of her disdain : If that the love of another makes her deny me relief , Yet I for ever will love her , though she's the cause of my grief . O you kind powers befriend me , and in her Breast pity move , That she some comfort may send me , since I so constant do prove : Though she give me a denial , thus by her unconstancy , Yet I will ever be loyal , and her true Lover will die . When he had ended this Ditty , he was about to depart ; Then a young Damosel most pretty out of a Bush there did start : Who to the youngman then going , Let not sad Grief thee annoy : Thus she said while Tears was flowing with the Excess of her joy . Dearest , since I unperceived herd you your passion express , And thereby my doubts relieved , now I the truth will confess : To try your Love I denied you , which since I find to be true ; I will love no one beside you , therefore bid Sorrow adieu . Though I did seem so ungrateful as your true Love do disdain , Yet in my heart I was faithful , and so I still will remain : Happy is she , my dear jewel , that such a Lover can find ; Ah! who could ever be cruel to one so constant and kind ? All the sad grief you endured was for my sake I do know ; Therefore you may be assured that I my Heart will bestow On thee without a denial ; witness you Powers above , That I will ever be loyal and true to thee my dear Love . Thus with sweet kisses expressing unto the youngman her mind , Who wrapped with joy such a Blessing so unexpected to find , Gave her a thousand sweet Kisses , both their joys then was complete . There is no Maiden but wishes such a true Lover to meet . Printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West Smithfield . 