The Constant Couple , OR , The Glory of True Love . The Youngman proved in the Trial just The Maid wae fearful of him to trust , He told her plainly she should be his Wife And he with her could live a happy life . She told him she was loath to yield But he in time at last did win the field They made no more ado ner further strife . But went tot'h Church and joined Man and Wife . The Tune of , Bonny Currant ; or , Digbys farewell , or Packington ' s Pound . This may be printed R. L. S. Oh F late I did walk in a pleasant fair day a dainty young couple I spied on the way A gallant young youth and a Maiden so fair They walked in the Field to take the fresh Air , And unto the Maiden the Youngman did say il'e ask you a question do not say me nay , For if you deny me it will danger my Life For I am resolved to make thee my Wife . I'll dress the like Flora in a rich Array in Gallant Attire ta wear every day Thou shall have thy pleasure both evening & amp ; morn with Rings and with Jewels thy self to adorn And all gallant attire thou shalt have my dear that's fit for any Lady in London to wear ; If thou yield thy self to me & amp ; make no more strife For to be my Bride and my loving sweet Wife . If thou canst but love me in heart and in mind a right honest Man thou of me shalt find Thou shalt have thy pleasure thy joy and delight I'll wait in thy Person by day and by night Thou shalt never want money nor gold I do swear nor nothing too good I will think for my dear , I'll maintain thee so bravely all of thy life , If thou be my true Love and my Loving wife . Thy Aprons of Silk and thy stockings the same thou shalt have no cause thy dear Husband to blame I will thee allow and will never think much or what thou desires I never will grutch Thy Servants to attend thoo to be at thy command shall always be ready to be at thy hand ; Come kiss me dear Love now & amp ; make no more strife And tell me in one word if thou wilt be my Wife . G Ood friend I do see that your love is most true that I do admire these speeches of you Your wit is so quick and your Tongue is so nimble that I'm half afraid with me you dissemble If I should believe what all youngmen do say I might be undone and be soon made a Prey Therefore I'll see further time spent of my Life , Before I will yield to be any men Wife . Some Youngmen are false and unstablesh in Love not one Man in twenty a maiden can prove There's many false hearted and are so unjust its a very hard matter a youngman to trust They'll sweer & amp ; dissemble to bring a maid to their bow and seek to undo her and away they will go But if your words but prove true I do spoke without strife I could be well pleased for to be your Wife . My dainty sweet Nancy my love is most true and thee I do fancy I love none but you I'll be as good as my word to the every way my estate will maintain thee most gallant & amp ; gay For Cupid hath wounded me soar to the Heart I am so linked unto thee we never will part I'll never be false to thee on my Life If thou be but willing for to be my Wife , With that they together sat down on the Plain , he saluted her kindly and kissed her again He gave a Token her which pleased her tot'h life she took it most kindly and made no more strife But they was contracted thereupon the same he married her with speed to keep a good name She rejoiceth most greatly he had eased all her gri [ ef ] That he proved to honest to make her his Wife . Now all you brave Youngsters & amp ; Maidens consider when you go to marry to love one another For these two where Lovers most faithful , and tr [ we ] with most dear affection I tell unto you Let every one do now the like I do say then God he will bless you by night and by worser [ ay ] The maid & amp ; the Youngman was content to the life [ e ] She god her a Husband and he god him a Wife , They was most truehearted and constant I sware I wish that true love may always endure It is not for a Youngman to pleasure his Lass , it's a brave thing when a maiden a youngman ca [ n ] true [ st ] This Youngman was constant unto this fair Mai [ worser ] they wedded and boded and bravely was led God send them both well all the days of their life That he prove a good Husband and she a good wife [ e . ] Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black-Raven the first shop in Fetter-Lane next Holborn . The Constant Couple , OR , The Glory of True Love . The Youngman proved in the Trial just The Maid wae fearful of him to trust , He told her plainly she should be his Wife And he with her could live a happy life . She told him she was loath to yield But he in time at last did win the field They made no more ado ner further strife . But went tot'h Church and joined Man and Wife . The Tune of , Bonny Currant ; or , Digbys farewell , or Packington ' s Pound . This may be printed R. L. S. Oh F late I did walk in a pleasant fair day a dainty young couple I spied on the way A gallant young youth and a Maiden so fair They walked in the Field to take the fresh Air , And unto the Maiden the Youngman did say il'e ask you a question do not say me nay , For if you deny me it will danger my Life For I am resolved to make thee my Wife . I'll dress the like Flora in a rich Array in Gallant Attire ta wear every day Thou shall have thy pleasure both evening & amp ; morn with Rings and with Jewels thy self to adorn And all gallant attire thou shalt have my dear that's fit for any Lady in London to wear ; If thou yield thy self to me & amp ; make no more strife For to be my Bride and my loving sweet Wife . If thou canst but love me in heart and in mind a right honest Man thou of me shalt find Thou shalt have thy pleasure thy joy and delight I'll wait in thy Person by day and by night Thou shalt never want money nor gold I do swear nor nothing too good I will think for my dear , I'll maintain thee so bravely all of thy life , If thou be my true Love and my Loving wife . Thy Aprons of Silk and thy stockings the same thou shalt have no cause thy dear Husband to blame I will thee allow and will never think much or what thou desires I never will grutch Thy Servants to attend thoo to be at thy command shall always be ready to be at thy hand ; Come kiss me dear Love now & amp ; make no more strife And tell me in one word if thou wilt be my Wife . G Ood friend I do see that your love is most true that I do admire these speeches of you Your wit is so quick and your Tongue is so nimble that I'm half afraid with me you dissemble If I should believe what all youngmen do say I might be undone and be soon made a Prey Therefore I'll see further time spent of my Life , Before I will yield to be any men Wife . Some Youngmen are false and unstablesh in Love not one Man in twenty a maiden can prove There's many false hearted and are so unjust its a very hard matter a youngman to trust They'll sweer & amp ; dissemble to bring a maid to their bow and seek to undo her and away they will go But if your words but prove true I do spoke without strife I could be well pleased for to be your Wife . My dainty sweet Nancy my love is most true and thee I do fancy I love none but you I'll be as good as my word to the every way my estate will maintain thee most gallant & amp ; gay For Cupid hath wounded me soar to the Heart I am so linked unto thee we never will part I'll never be false to thee on my Life If thou be but willing for to be my Wife , With that they together sat down on the Plain , he saluted her kindly and kissed her again He gave a Token her which pleased her tot'h life she took it most kindly and made no more strife But they was contracted thereupon the same he married her with speed to keep a good name She rejoiceth most greatly he had eased all her gri [ ef ] That he proved to honest to make her his Wife . Now all you brave Youngsters & amp ; Maidens consider when you go to marry to love one another For these two where Lovers most faithful , and tr [ we ] with most dear affection I tell unto you Let every one do now the like I do say then God he will bless you by night and by worser [ ay ] The maid & amp ; the Youngman was content to the life [ e ] She god her a Husband and he god him a Wife , They was most truehearted and constant I sware I wish that true love may always endure It is not for a Youngman to pleasure his Lass , it's a brave thing when a maiden a youngman ca [ n ] true [ st ] This Youngman was constant unto this fair Mai [ worser ] they wedded and boded and bravely was led God send them both well all the days of their life That he prove a good Husband and she a good wife [ e . ] Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black-Raven the first shop in Fetter-Lane next Holborn . 