The Loving Mistress , AND The WANTON CLERK . The Mistress and the Maid would try , If Will between them both could lie And not with them the Wanton play , Of this they did a wager lay , He to be wanton did begin , So they the Wager thought to win . The Tune is , A fig for France , or , The Country Farmer , or , Where's my Shepherd . A Lawyer in our Town did dwell , who loved his Wife exceeding well , Although he was well struck in years he tendered her , it plain appears . This Lawyer had a handseme Clerk , who broke into his Master's Park , His Mistress pleasure to fulfil , And him she called wanton Will . Upon a time it chanced so , the Lawyer out of Town did go , Mean while the Mistress wantonly , upon her Clerk did cast her eye , As she was sitting by the fire , and Will the Clerk was standing by her , But winking Moll with voice most shrill found fault with this poor wanton Will . Who will a wager lay me , about my Master's Clerk quoth she ? Who is so sluggish and so dull , he has no brains within his skull : His Mistress she did soon reply , and told the Maid she told a lie , But do you talk and prate your fill , there's none more brisk than wanton Will . You are deceived quoth she , and laughed , the still-sow sucks up all the draught , And if he were betwixt us to lie , with me you quickly would comply : You'd find him then a brisk young Lad , he'd jerk us till he made us mad , And therefore you do talk full ill to undervalue wanton Will . A Wager then was straightway laid betwixt the Mistress and the Maid , And Will between them was to lie , his mettle for to prove and try . So to the Bed away they went , the Clerk he seemed to be content , The wager was , he would lie still ; but they mistook this wanton Will . Quoth Will , if I between them lie I'll tie my bauble to my thigh , And if that they do let him lose he shall not long be out of use . Into the bed straightway he went , to trounce them both was his intent , And I suppose he had his fill , it tiresome work for wanton Will . His Mistress lying by his side , soon she had the knot untied , To work he went immediately , with both of them resolved to try , The Mistress he did quickly please then god between the servants knees Their lustful humours to fulfil , and this was done by wanton Will . He doubtless had enough to do to please the minds of these same two , The wager's lost assuredly , the mistress and the maid did cry . O no , quoth Will , it is not so , my master I'll appeal unto , For in such matters he has skill , no no , quoth she , my wanton Will . I hope quoth she , you'll be more wise , then such a simple thing devise , Your master by no means must know , then pray be careful what you do , But when the master home was come , and Will stood waiting in his Room , His nimble tongue could not lie still , but thus began this wanton Will . O gentle master ! then quoth he , there was a wager laid with me , Which I desire you to decide , by you it's fit it should be tried : I tied my Nag , where Corn grew nigh , the owner did the Nagg untie , He ran i'th' Corn and eat his fill ; now who's in fault in quoth wanton Will . Why , those that did the Nagg untie were most in fault assuredly , The mistress blushed , and him looked on , and said the wager he had wone : But nothing did the master doubt , nor could he find this Riddle out , The Clark did both their minds fulfil . And they found work for wanton Will . FINIS . London , Printed for J. Conyers , and are to be had at his Shop at the Black Raven a little a - above St. Andrews Church in Holborn . The Loving Mistress , AND The WANTON CLERK . The Mistress and the Maid would try , If Will between them both could lie And not with them the Wanton play , Of this they did a wager lay , He to be wanton did begin , So they the Wager thought to win . The Tune is , A fig for France , or , The Country Farmer , or , Where's my Shepherd . A Lawyer in our Town did dwell , who loved his Wife exceeding well , Although he was well struck in years he tendered her , it plain appears . This Lawyer had a handseme Clerk , who broke into his Master's Park , His Mistress pleasure to fulfil , And him she called wanton Will . Upon a time it chanced so , the Lawyer out of Town did go , Mean while the Mistress wantonly , upon her Clerk did cast her eye , As she was sitting by the fire , and Will the Clerk was standing by her , But winking Moll with voice most shrill found fault with this poor wanton Will . Who will a wager lay me , about my Master's Clerk quoth she ? Who is so sluggish and so dull , he has no brains within his skull : His Mistress she did soon reply , and told the Maid she told a lie , But do you talk and prate your fill , there's none more brisk than wanton Will . You are deceived quoth she , and laughed , the still-sow sucks up all the draught , And if he were betwixt us to lie , with me you quickly would comply : You'd find him then a brisk young Lad , he'd jerk us till he made us mad , And therefore you do talk full ill to undervalue wanton Will . A Wager then was straightway laid betwixt the Mistress and the Maid , And Will between them was to lie , his mettle for to prove and try . So to the Bed away they went , the Clerk he seemed to be content , The wager was , he would lie still ; but they mistook this wanton Will . Quoth Will , if I between them lie I'll tie my bauble to my thigh , And if that they do let him lose he shall not long be out of use . Into the bed straightway he went , to trounce them both was his intent , And I suppose he had his fill , it tiresome work for wanton Will . His Mistress lying by his side , soon she had the knot untied , To work he went immediately , with both of them resolved to try , The Mistress he did quickly please then god between the servants knees Their lustful humours to fulfil , and this was done by wanton Will . He doubtless had enough to do to please the minds of these same two , The wager's lost assuredly , the mistress and the maid did cry . O no , quoth Will , it is not so , my master I'll appeal unto , For in such matters he has skill , no no , quoth she , my wanton Will . I hope quoth she , you'll be more wise , then such a simple thing devise , Your master by no means must know , then pray be careful what you do , But when the master home was come , and Will stood waiting in his Room , His nimble tongue could not lie still , but thus began this wanton Will . O gentle master ! then quoth he , there was a wager laid with me , Which I desire you to decide , by you it's fit it should be tried : I tied my Nag , where Corn grew nigh , the owner did the Nagg untie , He ran i'th' Corn and eat his fill ; now who's in fault in quoth wanton Will . Why , those that did the Nagg untie were most in fault assuredly , The mistress blushed , and him looked on , and said the wager he had wone : But nothing did the master doubt , nor could he find this Riddle out , The Clark did both their minds fulfil . And they found work for wanton Will . FINIS . London , Printed for J. Conyers , and are to be had at his Shop at the Black Raven a little a - above St. Andrews Church in Holborn . 