The True Lovers Paradise . Cupid with his Golden Dart Pierced this Youngster to the heart ; He counts Love a pleasant pain , And his Freedom does disdain . Let other Lovers pattern take By him , who'll die for Celia's sake . To and excellent new Playhouse tune : Or , Ah how pleasant are the Charms of love . A H how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like streams are always flowing , Ah how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like streams are always flowing , So my passion's still a growing , nothing but my Celias eyes can move ; So my passion's still a growing perfect and immortal as the joys above . When Celia did my heart surprise , every Sinew felt a pleasure , Each kind look from her obliging eye filled my heart with endless treasure : Love , Oh Love , is the only treasure , joy and blessing from the grave and wise , Give me love , and life and pleasure , I shall never envy what the world enjoys . In love I chiefly now delight , and doting grown in me no wonder ; The Darts which did me once affright and dread me far worse than thunder , Now are welcome unto me , increasing still my warm desire , Celias Captive I must be , it's she , and none but she that feeds my fire . TO Is she that breeds my heart content , I am like one dead without her , If from me once she does absent , she carries all my joys about her ; With her looks she kills or saves me , and breeds my comfort or my grief , In Subjection she enslaves me , Celia thou most cunningly hast played the thief . I now take pleasure in my Chains , in my Fetters I delight me ; Yet sure to feel uncessant pains , if my Celia once does slight me ; On my heart is her impression , adding to my passion night and day , I from love make no digression , Celia at thy feet my dearest life i'll lay . O was ever such a pleasant wound , as my tender heart hath pierced ? Or ever such a pleasing found , or any in Love better versed ? Freedom now shall be despised , and Celia I am only thine , His senses sure must be disguised , that in his heart desires to be a libertine . Cupid , I will only thee adore , and account it clear my Duty , My reason I do show therefore , it's I am compelled by Beauty ; Thy fairest eyes have so incharmed me , that selflove I must deny ; And Loves fires so strangely warmed me , Celia I most freely for thy love can die . Farewell all those pleasant joys wherein Freemen are delighted , For they to me appear as toys , by me they ever shall be slighted , Love's the thing that does possess me , his Riches fain I would enjoy , With my Celia , Cupid bless me , nothing then of crosses can my love annoy . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers at the first shop in Fetter - lane near Holbourn . The True Lovers Paradise . Cupid with his Golden Dart Pierced this Youngster to the heart ; He counts Love a pleasant pain , And his Freedom does disdain . Let other Lovers pattern take By him , who'll die for Celia's sake . To and excellent new Playhouse tune : Or , Ah how pleasant are the Charms of love . A H how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like streams are always flowing , Ah how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like streams are always flowing , So my passion's still a growing , nothing but my Celias eyes can move ; So my passion's still a growing perfect and immortal as the joys above . When Celia did my heart surprise , every Sinew felt a pleasure , Each kind look from her obliging eye filled my heart with endless treasure : Love , Oh Love , is the only treasure , joy and blessing from the grave and wise , Give me love , and life and pleasure , I shall never envy what the world enjoys . In love I chiefly now delight , and doting grown in me no wonder ; The Darts which did me once affright and dread me far worse than thunder , Now are welcome unto me , increasing still my warm desire , Celias Captive I must be , it's she , and none but she that feeds my fire . TO Is she that breeds my heart content , I am like one dead without her , If from me once she does absent , she carries all my joys about her ; With her looks she kills or saves me , and breeds my comfort or my grief , In Subjection she enslaves me , Celia thou most cunningly hast played the thief . I now take pleasure in my Chains , in my Fetters I delight me ; Yet sure to feel uncessant pains , if my Celia once does slight me ; On my heart is her impression , adding to my passion night and day , I from love make no digression , Celia at thy feet my dearest life i'll lay . O was ever such a pleasant wound , as my tender heart hath pierced ? Or ever such a pleasing found , or any in Love better versed ? Freedom now shall be despised , and Celia I am only thine , His senses sure must be disguised , that in his heart desires to be a libertine . Cupid , I will only thee adore , and account it clear my Duty , My reason I do show therefore , it's I am compelled by Beauty ; Thy fairest eyes have so incharmed me , that selflove I must deny ; And Loves fires so strangely warmed me , Celia I most freely for thy love can die . Farewell all those pleasant joys wherein Freemen are delighted , For they to me appear as toys , by me they ever shall be slighted , Love's the thing that does possess me , his Riches fain I would enjoy , With my Celia , Cupid bless me , nothing then of crosses can my love annoy . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers at the first shop in Fetter - lane near Holbourn . 