The Young-Man's Answer To the Politick-Maids Device . If all youngmen were as he would be , Maidens should mould above the knee : And let them sweat in their own S [ ? ] in , They are more false than men have been : And yet you see what here's in hand , How they do speak against Young-Men . The Tune is , Digby's Farewell : Or , What shall a Young Woman , etc F Or certain and sure , this Girl will go mad , To rail against young men , and say they're so bad : They may hold their tongues , and shake they byth' hand They're as false as the young men , all over the Land : There's hardly any truth in a maid to be found , They'll lie and dissemble , and search a man round : Therefore honest Youngmen have a care what you do , more maids there are false , then are true in the row . They're such dangerous ware , and so apt to make strife , A youngman cannot tell how to choose him a wife : They're so false and so fickle , and so full of deceit , It's a thousand pound to a penny some light of a Cheat ; And think he hath a pure virgin to bring to his Bed , When long time before she has lost her maidenhead . therefore honest youngmen , etc I cannot deny , but they keep company , But they look to be fed with the best that may be , Then cakes upon cakes , and ale , wine , and beer , Thus they make fools of youngmen e'ry where ; And then at the last when they have god what they can , There is no truth in them , they are for another man ; therefore honest youngmen have a care what you do more maids there are false , then are true in the row . There is many a Marriage has been in this Land , And many a youngman that has been trappaned : When he has brought his young wife unto his own home It after has been proved he had a buttered Bunn ; What he wanted ith' purse , he had it ith' tail , I am sorry that Maidens at youngmen will rail . therefore honest young [ - ] men , etc A man cannot tell [ ? ] or to chum [ se ] one that's g [ ? ] They're so rotten at heart , if it be right understood , For they go with their necks and their breasts very bore , For to give youngmen notice they have special ware : But yet their conditions are often unsound , There is many a man a bad wife he hath found . therefore honest , etc A maid may say this , and a maid may say that , To blame honest youngmen , but I know not for what ; There's many a man for a maid has been slave , And has lost his sweet life , he was a fool for his pains ; It's a hundred to one if he had scaped his life , That she'd never a yielded for to have been his wife . therefore honest , etc It's a wondered thing some Maids are so base To rail against youngmen unto their disgrace : A true hearted Lover will scorn to do so , But a false hearted Damsel is a men overthrow : There's never a maiden say all what you can , But sometime desires to play with a man . therefore honest , etc Now youngmen you hear that some Maids are unjust , If you be minded to marry , take one you can trust : For still there is plenty of both good and bad , And you must take your fortune if a wife must be had ; And if she be half Whorish you must be content , For afterwit always is too late to repent . therefore honest , etc A Scold and a Slut let them both go together , But a Scold is the better , all this I consider , A Slut she may poison a man with his meat , And make him to loath every bit he should eat ; Let Maidens consider and cleanly Girls be , It is a foul blot in their Scuttheon truly . therefore honest , etc This youngman was vexed when he herd the maids touch He answered her kindly , for his heart it did grutch : He tells her his mind , and sets himself out to the view , There's not one maid in twenty will stand to be true ; They'll prate and they'll lie , they'll huff , and they'll puff , If men give them their hearts , they've never enough . therefore honest youngmen have a care what you do , more maids there are false then are true in the row . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-streetThe Young-Man's Answer To the Politick-Maids Device . If all youngmen were as he would be , Maidens should mould above the knee : And let them sweat in their own S [ ? ] in , They are more false than men have been : And yet you see what here's in hand , How they do speak against Young-Men . The Tune is , Digby's Farewell : Or , What shall a Young Woman , etc F Or certain and sure , this Girl will go mad , To rail against young men , and say they're so bad : They may hold their tongues , and shake they byth' hand They're as false as the young men , all over the Land : There's hardly any truth in a maid to be found , They'll lie and dissemble , and search a man round : Therefore honest Youngmen have a care what you do , more maids there are false , then are true in the row . They're such dangerous ware , and so apt to make strife , A youngman cannot tell how to choose him a wife : They're so false and so fickle , and so full of deceit , It's a thousand pound to a penny some light of a Cheat ; And think he hath a pure virgin to bring to his Bed , When long time before she has lost her maidenhead . therefore honest youngmen , etc I cannot deny , but they keep company , But they look to be fed with the best that may be , Then cakes upon cakes , and ale , wine , and beer , Thus they make fools of youngmen e'ry where ; And then at the last when they have god what they can , There is no truth in them , they are for another man ; therefore honest youngmen have a care what you do more maids there are false , then are true in the row . There is many a Marriage has been in this Land , And many a youngman that has been trappaned : When he has brought his young wife unto his own home It after has been proved he had a buttered Bunn ; What he wanted ith' purse , he had it ith' tail , I am sorry that Maidens at youngmen will rail . therefore honest young [ - ] men , etc A man cannot tell [ ? ] or to chum [ se ] one that's g [ ? ] They're so rotten at heart , if it be right understood , For they go with their necks and their breasts very bore , For to give youngmen notice they have special ware : But yet their conditions are often unsound , There is many a man a bad wife he hath found . therefore honest , etc A maid may say this , and a maid may say that , To blame honest youngmen , but I know not for what ; There's many a man for a maid has been slave , And has lost his sweet life , he was a fool for his pains ; It's a hundred to one if he had scaped his life , That she'd never a yielded for to have been his wife . therefore honest , etc It's a wondered thing some Maids are so base To rail against youngmen unto their disgrace : A true hearted Lover will scorn to do so , But a false hearted Damsel is a men overthrow : There's never a maiden say all what you can , But sometime desires to play with a man . therefore honest , etc Now youngmen you hear that some Maids are unjust , If you be minded to marry , take one you can trust : For still there is plenty of both good and bad , And you must take your fortune if a wife must be had ; And if she be half Whorish you must be content , For afterwit always is too late to repent . therefore honest , etc A Scold and a Slut let them both go together , But a Scold is the better , all this I consider , A Slut she may poison a man with his meat , And make him to loath every bit he should eat ; Let Maidens consider and cleanly Girls be , It is a foul blot in their Scuttheon truly . therefore honest , etc This youngman was vexed when he herd the maids touch He answered her kindly , for his heart it did grutch : He tells her his mind , and sets himself out to the view , There's not one maid in twenty will stand to be true ; They'll prate and they'll lie , they'll huff , and they'll puff , If men give them their hearts , they've never enough . therefore honest youngmen have a care what you do , more maids there are false then are true in the row . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street 