The Merry Plow-Man , AND Loving Milk-Maid See how the loving Country-Men And Maidens do agree ; While they express their happiness , And both contented be . To the Tune of , Jenny Gin , Heigh Boys up go we , the fair one let me in . W E that do led a Country Life , in pleasures do abound , We still live free from care and strife , and are encompassed round With such content , that Mortal Men no happier can be ; And London Gallants tell me then who lives so well as we . We have the pleasant Fields and Groves , wherein we take delight , And there we walk with our true Loves , when Luna shines most bright ; And those that have great store of wealth , no happier can they be , We work full hard , and have our health , and who so merry as we . The murmuring Rivers by us glide , where tippling Fish play , While our true Loves walk by our side , to pass the time away ; Such sweets and comforts we possess , with true felicity , That none enjoys more happiness , nor more content , than we . O Ur true Loves with their Milking-pales go merrily along , And foot it over the Hills and Dales , singing a merry song : And nothing does our Loves molest , but cheerful still we be , And think our selves of all most blessed , such happy Men are we . We use no flattering Compliments , our Sweethearts to betray , But plainly tell them our intents , and mean what we do say ; While London Citizens pretend such store of constancy , Our Loves doe last to our lives end , and none more true than we . No jealous thoughts possess our breast , but we contented are , Both night and day we are at rest , and Strangers are to care : From doubts , from discontents , and fears , no Mortals live more free , And thus most plainly it appears , none happier are than we . But mind how each tite Country Lass does trip it over the Plain , Aa they the silent Meadows pass , their amorous Notes they strain ; And when we hear their lovely Charms , so sweet they seem to be , We often wish them in our Arms , such loving Souls are we . And when we to the Fold do go , to oversee our Flocks , Who sometime wander to and from , and Graze among the Rocks : To think upon our hearts delights , so pleasant seems to be , That Gentlemen , and worthy Knights , know no such joys as we . Thus we that often drive the Blows , have share of Earthly Bliss , And from the Maids that Milk the Cows , we oft steal many a Kiss ; To Feasts and Fairs we often go , where diverse sports we see , And when bright Phoebus grows low , then home again walk we . And thus the lusty Country Lad does spend his vacant hours , With her who makes his heart full glad , among the shady Bowers : And often tumbles his true Love , beneath the Myrtle Tree , Since nothing can our joys remove , what Men so blessed as we . Printed for J , Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without NewgateThe Merry Plow-Man , AND Loving Milk-Maid See how the loving Country-Men And Maidens do agree ; While they express their happiness , And both contented be . To the Tune of , Jenny Gin , Heigh Boys up go we , the fair one let me in . W E that do led a Country Life , in pleasures do abound , We still live free from care and strife , and are encompassed round With such content , that Mortal Men no happier can be ; And London Gallants tell me then who lives so well as we . We have the pleasant Fields and Groves , wherein we take delight , And there we walk with our true Loves , when Luna shines most bright ; And those that have great store of wealth , no happier can they be , We work full hard , and have our health , and who so merry as we . The murmuring Rivers by us glide , where tippling Fish play , While our true Loves walk by our side , to pass the time away ; Such sweets and comforts we possess , with true felicity , That none enjoys more happiness , nor more content , than we . O Ur true Loves with their Milking-pales go merrily along , And foot it over the Hills and Dales , singing a merry song : And nothing does our Loves molest , but cheerful still we be , And think our selves of all most blessed , such happy Men are we . We use no flattering Compliments , our Sweethearts to betray , But plainly tell them our intents , and mean what we do say ; While London Citizens pretend such store of constancy , Our Loves doe last to our lives end , and none more true than we . No jealous thoughts possess our breast , but we contented are , Both night and day we are at rest , and Strangers are to care : From doubts , from discontents , and fears , no Mortals live more free , And thus most plainly it appears , none happier are than we . But mind how each tite Country Lass does trip it over the Plain , Aa they the silent Meadows pass , their amorous Notes they strain ; And when we hear their lovely Charms , so sweet they seem to be , We often wish them in our Arms , such loving Souls are we . And when we to the Fold do go , to oversee our Flocks , Who sometime wander to and from , and Graze among the Rocks : To think upon our hearts delights , so pleasant seems to be , That Gentlemen , and worthy Knights , know no such joys as we . Thus we that often drive the Blows , have share of Earthly Bliss , And from the Maids that Milk the Cows , we oft steal many a Kiss ; To Feasts and Fairs we often go , where diverse sports we see , And when bright Phoebus grows low , then home again walk we . And thus the lusty Country Lad does spend his vacant hours , With her who makes his heart full glad , among the shady Bowers : And often tumbles his true Love , beneath the Myrtle Tree , Since nothing can our joys remove , what Men so blessed as we . Printed for J , Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate 