And ANSWR to the Wealthy GRASIER ; OR , And Account of the pleasant Passages on the WEDDING-DAY . Though she was mean , yet like a Queen , she did appear most Gay ; Her Uncles Gold , she di behold , upon her Wedding-day . Tune of , Ladies of London , This may be Printed . R.P. WORSER ID you not hear of a Wedding of late ? a Grazier there's none more completer , Being a Man of a worthy Estate , and she a most Beautiful Creature : Though some declared her Portion was small , in her he had fixed his pleasure , He never inquired for any at all , he prized her more dearer than treasure . Therefore there needed no more to be said , the Match was made up very fairly ; Nay , and that morning they were to be Wed , he came to his Bride very early : Likewise his Friends came with him also , their kindness to her they did render , And as they passed it was a rare show , the Bride she appeared in splendour . They being Married to both their content , while Death never to be divided ; Home to her Father and Mother they went , where was a rich Dinner provided : Plenty of all things there did abound , both Beer , Ale , and likewise Canary , And as the Glass it went merrily round , they all was most heartily merry . She had and Uncle , a Wealthy rich Man , who was at the Wedding and Dinner ; Cousin , said he , I will do what I can , since thou hadst the fortune to win her : Something this day with her I will give , and therefore I prithee come hither , See that you Love her as long as you live , that Heavens may bless you together . She shall never be no bad bargain behold , as long as her Uncle is able ; Then did he pull out whole handful [ ? ] s of Gold , and tendered it down on the Table : Here is two hundred Guinneas , said he , be careful and do your endeavour , And then hereafter I will be more free , it is not the most I can give her . Take up this Money , I do you entreat , I freely do give it , as knowing , When Love and Money together does meet , their comforts will always be flowing : This I protest is something above what some had who once did refuse her , But you that Marry her merely for Love , in this you shall never be a looser . I being single , I therefore declare , as long as I live I'll not Marry , Therefore make haste now and get me and Heir , a Boy , and his name shall be Harry ; To whom my Land and Houses I'll give , when Life from this Body shall sever , Not only you and your Son shall receive , but likewise his Children for ever . Now the old Dad was as great as a King , as he was relating his Story , Music and Dancing and Bells' they did Ring , the Bride she was all in her Glory : Likewise her Friends in midst of this joy , was merry and laughed out of measure , Saying be sure that you think of this Boy , and that we may have a young Grazier . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur - street , without N ewgate . And ANSWR to the Wealthy GRASIER ; OR , And Account of the pleasant Passages on the WEDDING-DAY . Though she was mean , yet like a Queen , she did appear most Gay ; Her Uncles Gold , she di behold , upon her Wedding-day . Tune of , Ladies of London , This may be Printed . R.P. WORSER ID you not hear of a Wedding of late ? a Grazier there's none more completer , Being a Man of a worthy Estate , and she a most Beautiful Creature : Though some declared her Portion was small , in her he had fixed his pleasure , He never inquired for any at all , he prized her more dearer than treasure . Therefore there needed no more to be said , the Match was made up very fairly ; Nay , and that morning they were to be Wed , he came to his Bride very early : Likewise his Friends came with him also , their kindness to her they did render , And as they passed it was a rare show , the Bride she appeared in splendour . They being Married to both their content , while Death never to be divided ; Home to her Father and Mother they went , where was a rich Dinner provided : Plenty of all things there did abound , both Beer , Ale , and likewise Canary , And as the Glass it went merrily round , they all was most heartily merry . She had and Uncle , a Wealthy rich Man , who was at the Wedding and Dinner ; Cousin , said he , I will do what I can , since thou hadst the fortune to win her : Something this day with her I will give , and therefore I prithee come hither , See that you Love her as long as you live , that Heavens may bless you together . She shall never be no bad bargain behold , as long as her Uncle is able ; Then did he pull out whole handful [ ? ] s of Gold , and tendered it down on the Table : Here is two hundred Guinneas , said he , be careful and do your endeavour , And then hereafter I will be more free , it is not the most I can give her . Take up this Money , I do you entreat , I freely do give it , as knowing , When Love and Money together does meet , their comforts will always be flowing : This I protest is something above what some had who once did refuse her , But you that Marry her merely for Love , in this you shall never be a looser . I being single , I therefore declare , as long as I live I'll not Marry , Therefore make haste now and get me and Heir , a Boy , and his name shall be Harry ; To whom my Land and Houses I'll give , when Life from this Body shall sever , Not only you and your Son shall receive , but likewise his Children for ever . Now the old Dad was as great as a King , as he was relating his Story , Music and Dancing and Bells' they did Ring , the Bride she was all in her Glory : Likewise her Friends in midst of this joy , was merry and laughed out of measure , Saying be sure that you think of this Boy , and that we may have a young Grazier . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur - street , without N ewgate . 