The Hasty VIRGIN : OR , The WORSER aughters desire for a Husband . Together with the Mother's persuading her to be satisfied for a season ; but when finding that her Daughter could not forbear , she gave her Consent , to the Maidens great joy . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R. P. M Other , I have a desire to wed , the thoughts of true Love does allure me , [ ? ] ere I have pains from the foot to the head , a Husband would certainly cure me : [ ? ] undergo a sad misery , dear Mother , without disputation ; [ H ] ad I Husband , Oh then I should be the happiest Girl in the Nation . [ WORSER ] aughter , methinks you are something too bold pray what does your courage want cooling ? [ Y ] ou that are not above sixteen years old , and yet you are wild to be fooling : Seven years hence you may have a Mate , it's soon enough then I declare it . Mother , Oh why will you talk at this rate ? what Maiden is able to bear it ? Daughter , if you will no longer forbear , I tell you we shall be at variance ; Marriage does often bring trouble and care , I know it by woeful experience : You being young and therefore unfit for any to come to a wooing ; Should you be married before you have wit , Oh then it will prove your own Ruin . TO Hen to her mother she thus did reply , why set you me such a hard Lesson ? Is there not many far younger than I that daily does taste of the blessing ? Both night and day , alas , I am sure in vain I do wish for the pleasure ; You never consider what I do endure , but torture me now out of measure . Daughter , wherefore are you in a rage ? what makes you so touchous and tasty ? You would be wiser I dare to engage , if that you would not be so hasty All in good time you may be a bride , and live in much comfort together . Mother , I tell you my patience is tried , pray let me have One now or never . Why should I languish and linger my time ? dear Mother , I'ld have you but try me ; Am I not just in the midst of my p [ r ] ime ? then why should you seem to deny me ? My Cousin Nan , with bonny brisk Sue , so long as I they never tarried ; Therefore dear mother , whatever you do , I pray you now let me be married . Seeing you are in such sorrowful grief , according as you have reported , Leave off your sighing , and tell me in brief by whom you were yet ever courted : Mother , whenever I went to the Mill , I had a small taste of those blisses , Robin and Roger they courted me still , and gave me a thousand sweet kisses . Daughter , I'ld have you no longer lament , I yield to thy humble Petition , Wherein I freely do give my consent , that now you shall change your condition ; Robin ( of whom you tell me ) I knew , but Roger to me is a stranger ; Daughter , be careful whatever you do , for why ? I must tell you there's danger . Mother , I thank you that you are so kind to grant me what I did desire ; None but a Husband did run in my mind , I burned in unquenchable Fire . Now at the last I've ended my moan , no longer I need to stand arguing , Nor do I reckon to lie long alone , but make haste and strike up a bargain . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The Hasty VIRGIN : OR , The WORSER aughters desire for a Husband . Together with the Mother's persuading her to be satisfied for a season ; but when finding that her Daughter could not forbear , she gave her Consent , to the Maidens great joy . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R. P. M Other , I have a desire to wed , the thoughts of true Love does allure me , [ ? ] ere I have pains from the foot to the head , a Husband would certainly cure me : [ ? ] undergo a sad misery , dear Mother , without disputation ; [ H ] ad I Husband , Oh then I should be the happiest Girl in the Nation . [ WORSER ] aughter , methinks you are something too bold pray what does your courage want cooling ? [ Y ] ou that are not above sixteen years old , and yet you are wild to be fooling : Seven years hence you may have a Mate , it's soon enough then I declare it . Mother , Oh why will you talk at this rate ? what Maiden is able to bear it ? Daughter , if you will no longer forbear , I tell you we shall be at variance ; Marriage does often bring trouble and care , I know it by woeful experience : You being young and therefore unfit for any to come to a wooing ; Should you be married before you have wit , Oh then it will prove your own Ruin . TO Hen to her mother she thus did reply , why set you me such a hard Lesson ? Is there not many far younger than I that daily does taste of the blessing ? Both night and day , alas , I am sure in vain I do wish for the pleasure ; You never consider what I do endure , but torture me now out of measure . Daughter , wherefore are you in a rage ? what makes you so touchous and tasty ? You would be wiser I dare to engage , if that you would not be so hasty All in good time you may be a bride , and live in much comfort together . Mother , I tell you my patience is tried , pray let me have One now or never . Why should I languish and linger my time ? dear Mother , I'ld have you but try me ; Am I not just in the midst of my p [ r ] ime ? then why should you seem to deny me ? My Cousin Nan , with bonny brisk Sue , so long as I they never tarried ; Therefore dear mother , whatever you do , I pray you now let me be married . Seeing you are in such sorrowful grief , according as you have reported , Leave off your sighing , and tell me in brief by whom you were yet ever courted : Mother , whenever I went to the Mill , I had a small taste of those blisses , Robin and Roger they courted me still , and gave me a thousand sweet kisses . Daughter , I'ld have you no longer lament , I yield to thy humble Petition , Wherein I freely do give my consent , that now you shall change your condition ; Robin ( of whom you tell me ) I knew , but Roger to me is a stranger ; Daughter , be careful whatever you do , for why ? I must tell you there's danger . Mother , I thank you that you are so kind to grant me what I did desire ; None but a Husband did run in my mind , I burned in unquenchable Fire . Now at the last I've ended my moan , no longer I need to stand arguing , Nor do I reckon to lie long alone , but make haste and strike up a bargain . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 