The Lamentation , COme all you tender Mortals that have Ears , And to my mournful Story lend your Tears . Not Children's Tears , nor such as Women shed , Losing the dear Associates of their Bed ; But deeply cut with and afflicting Sense , Let your sad hearts their purple Streams dispense . Hang down your wondering heads , and blushing show Your deep amazement by your sinking Brow. With Silence , Horror , and Attention wait , Whilst my sad Muse does the dire Tale relate . My Tongue-tied Muse , which never before could speak , Yet now must open , or my Heart will break . But o ! I Tremble , and I dare not Name The dismal Cause of my Poetic Flame . Fain I would speak , and ease me of my Pain , But my great H orror strikes me dumb again . What Iron Tongue can with due Temper speak , Or Marble H eart declare , unless it break ? That JAMES the Mighty , Once-loved JAMES is gone In silent Night , all Guardless , and Alone , Withdrew from H is great Kingdoms , and H is Throne ! JAMES the late Sovereign of His Subject's Hearts , Now Unlamented from H is Throne departs ! JAMES the Great Source and Origin of Laws , When H e H imself from the Defence withdraws , Subjects H imself unto the Rabbles Jaws ! Whose lawless Fury , and outrageous Power , ( Which God forbid ) would MAJESTY devour . Malicious Scribblers too with barbarous Pen , Are crueler than Lyons in a Den ! O that there is such Impudence in Men ! Who lately did before H im Trembling stand , And flew to finish but H is least Command . With awful Reverence and Terror struck , They would have paid Obedience to H is Look : Wholly regardless of that Sacred Name , Desert the H ead from whence their H onours came . Who brooded safe under H is powerful Wing , Now barbarously use the Name of KING ; And not alone deny their helping Sword , But utterly refuse H im their good Word . Nobles and Commons , Subject's and Soldiers too , At once consent their MONARCH to undo ; And it's their Duty , Conscience tells them so . O Monarch ! O unhappy Monarch ! why Should all at once abandon Loyalty , Under the great Defence of H honesty ? Who always have been Faithful to the Crown , And with their Blood and Fortune's served the Throne , That Service must in Faithfulness disown . Long , ROYAL SIR , have the damned Snares been laid , Wherein Your MAJESTY is thus betrayed . H ell and ROME is Emissaries did Combine The English Monarchy to Undermine . ROME could not bear to have that Jewel lost , Which to her thirsty Coffers brought in most . And since our Land forsook the Romish Yoke , And wisely from her Cursed Fetters broke . Rome , to recover her delightful Gain , Many a Plot did secretly maintain , To bring this Nation to her Foot again : But frustrated in every such Design , By and overruling Providence Divine , Your MAJESTY exalted to the Throne , Secure she stood in so endeared a Son , So firmly bound to her Religion . Who ( when a Subject ) to her firmly stood , Despised his Right , though of Successive Blood , And publicly avowed the Holy Cause , Against the highest Interest , and known Laws . What could she doubt of such a zealous Son , When safely guarded with His Sacred Crown , And urged too with the Queen's eternal Moan ! Whom Nature had obliged to the Holy See , ( Sure she Espoused it to Extremity ! ) Now then with restless , and redoubled Rage , She all her Engines does to work engage The apostatized Nation to reduce Unto the Universal Mother's Use . But I forbear to search the W owned too deep , And ( as a Subject ) will my Distance keep : ) Nor mention what it was she did intend , When to her Arts she did our Monarch bend . But humbly , and with bleeding heart implore , His MAJESTY would take her Part no more : But ( having bought at most expensive Rates This dearest Eyesalve ) would perceive her Cheats : Wisely reflecting into what a state Her Treacheries have brought the JUST and GREAT : And under the specious Name Religion , The happiest MONARCH of the Earth undone . Religion , said I ! Ay , a cursed One it's , Which perpetrates the worst of Villainies , Under the meritorious hope's of Bliss . See then , Oh Royal Sovereign , see Into that Bloody Harlot's Treachery , And resolutely break her slavish Yoke : Say but that healing word , and when it's spoke , Let the lost Whore perceive she is forsook . Tell all Your bleeding Nation , tell the World , How by ROME is cursed Arts You thus were hurled Into the fatal Pit , and freely own The several Facts she would have had You done . Nothing overcomes like Free Confession . Shall I Your Lord and Sovereign fallen Into my meanest Subject's basest Thrall , And ( like a little Criminal ) tell all ? Yes , MONARCH , that You shall ( pardon dread Lord ) The over-freedom of that hasty word . But it's indeed the only Cure is found , For the sure healing of the desperate Wound . It's better far ingeniously to own And Error done , than that it should be known By other means , Who truly does Repent , Is in the next Degree to Innocent . Say then , Dear Sovereign , most sincerely say Yo've thrown that cursed Interest quite away , Wholly dislodged it from Your Sacred Breast , Will never deal again with ROMISH Priest , Only to drive them from their Hellish Nest. This done , You shall be more than ever adored , To all Your Glories happily Restored . Take it ( for once ) on a mean Subject's word . So shall Your Majesty secure Your Soul , And all Your great Impending Storms Control . So shall the Most Illustrious PRINCE Your Son With Joyful heart his dearest Father own , Think he's well paid for all he's undergone . So shall Your Nobles with all Joy protest , They're infinitely in such a Convert blessed ; So all Your Clergy will Devoutly Pray , All former Errors may be done away , And ROME our great Expenses shall defray . So all the Commons will Allegiance swear , And thankfully all Damages Repair . So all the People shall Heart-Offerings bring , And loudly Shout and Cry God Save the King . FINIS . The Lamentation , COme all you tender Mortals that have Ears , And to my mournful Story lend your Tears . Not Children's Tears , nor such as Women shed , Losing the dear Associates of their Bed ; But deeply cut with and afflicting Sense , Let your sad hearts their purple Streams dispense . Hang down your wondering heads , and blushing show Your deep amazement by your sinking Brow. With Silence , Horror , and Attention wait , Whilst my sad Muse does the dire Tale relate . My Tongue-tied Muse , which never before could speak , Yet now must open , or my Heart will break . But o ! I Tremble , and I dare not Name The dismal Cause of my Poetic Flame . Fain I would speak , and ease me of my Pain , But my great H orror strikes me dumb again . What Iron Tongue can with due Temper speak , Or Marble H eart declare , unless it break ? That JAMES the Mighty , Once-loved JAMES is gone In silent Night , all Guardless , and Alone , Withdrew from H is great Kingdoms , and H is Throne ! JAMES the late Sovereign of His Subject's Hearts , Now Unlamented from H is Throne departs ! JAMES the Great Source and Origin of Laws , When H e H imself from the Defence withdraws , Subjects H imself unto the Rabbles Jaws ! Whose lawless Fury , and outrageous Power , ( Which God forbid ) would MAJESTY devour . Malicious Scribblers too with barbarous Pen , Are crueler than Lyons in a Den ! O that there is such Impudence in Men ! Who lately did before H im Trembling stand , And flew to finish but H is least Command . With awful Reverence and Terror struck , They would have paid Obedience to H is Look : Wholly regardless of that Sacred Name , Desert the H ead from whence their H onours came . Who brooded safe under H is powerful Wing , Now barbarously use the Name of KING ; And not alone deny their helping Sword , But utterly refuse H im their good Word . Nobles and Commons , Subject's and Soldiers too , At once consent their MONARCH to undo ; And it's their Duty , Conscience tells them so . O Monarch ! O unhappy Monarch ! why Should all at once abandon Loyalty , Under the great Defence of H honesty ? Who always have been Faithful to the Crown , And with their Blood and Fortune's served the Throne , That Service must in Faithfulness disown . Long , ROYAL SIR , have the damned Snares been laid , Wherein Your MAJESTY is thus betrayed . H ell and ROME is Emissaries did Combine The English Monarchy to Undermine . ROME could not bear to have that Jewel lost , Which to her thirsty Coffers brought in most . And since our Land forsook the Romish Yoke , And wisely from her Cursed Fetters broke . Rome , to recover her delightful Gain , Many a Plot did secretly maintain , To bring this Nation to her Foot again : But frustrated in every such Design , By and overruling Providence Divine , Your MAJESTY exalted to the Throne , Secure she stood in so endeared a Son , So firmly bound to her Religion . Who ( when a Subject ) to her firmly stood , Despised his Right , though of Successive Blood , And publicly avowed the Holy Cause , Against the highest Interest , and known Laws . What could she doubt of such a zealous Son , When safely guarded with His Sacred Crown , And urged too with the Queen's eternal Moan ! Whom Nature had obliged to the Holy See , ( Sure she Espoused it to Extremity ! ) Now then with restless , and redoubled Rage , She all her Engines does to work engage The apostatized Nation to reduce Unto the Universal Mother's Use . But I forbear to search the W owned too deep , And ( as a Subject ) will my Distance keep : ) Nor mention what it was she did intend , When to her Arts she did our Monarch bend . But humbly , and with bleeding heart implore , His MAJESTY would take her Part no more : But ( having bought at most expensive Rates This dearest Eyesalve ) would perceive her Cheats : Wisely reflecting into what a state Her Treacheries have brought the JUST and GREAT : And under the specious Name Religion , The happiest MONARCH of the Earth undone . Religion , said I ! Ay , a cursed One it's , Which perpetrates the worst of Villainies , Under the meritorious hope's of Bliss . See then , Oh Royal Sovereign , see Into that Bloody Harlot's Treachery , And resolutely break her slavish Yoke : Say but that healing word , and when it's spoke , Let the lost Whore perceive she is forsook . Tell all Your bleeding Nation , tell the World , How by ROME is cursed Arts You thus were hurled Into the fatal Pit , and freely own The several Facts she would have had You done . Nothing overcomes like Free Confession . Shall I Your Lord and Sovereign fallen Into my meanest Subject's basest Thrall , And ( like a little Criminal ) tell all ? Yes , MONARCH , that You shall ( pardon dread Lord ) The over-freedom of that hasty word . But it's indeed the only Cure is found , For the sure healing of the desperate Wound . It's better far ingeniously to own And Error done , than that it should be known By other means , Who truly does Repent , Is in the next Degree to Innocent . Say then , Dear Sovereign , most sincerely say Yo've thrown that cursed Interest quite away , Wholly dislodged it from Your Sacred Breast , Will never deal again with ROMISH Priest , Only to drive them from their Hellish Nest. This done , You shall be more than ever adored , To all Your Glories happily Restored . Take it ( for once ) on a mean Subject's word . So shall Your Majesty secure Your Soul , And all Your great Impending Storms Control . So shall the Most Illustrious PRINCE Your Son With Joyful heart his dearest Father own , Think he's well paid for all he's undergone . So shall Your Nobles with all Joy protest , They're infinitely in such a Convert blessed ; So all Your Clergy will Devoutly Pray , All former Errors may be done away , And ROME our great Expenses shall defray . So all the Commons will Allegiance swear , And thankfully all Damages Repair . So all the People shall Heart-Offerings bring , And loudly Shout and Cry God Save the King . FINIS . 