The merry Country MAIDS ANSWER To the Country Lovers Conquest : Exactly a description she does make And gets it Printed for her Sweethearts sake Of all his Courting Compliments and Lies , His proper person , and his qualities The match is half made up , you'll say good sirs , For she hath his good will , he wants hers . The Tune is , Once I Loved a Lass with a Rolling Eye . O Nce I knew a Lad with a brazen face His Carriage was so bad When he did me embrace That I could not love him , had he bags of Gold Money shall not tempt me . I will not be fooled , I could not endure him truth I do not mock , Because that in his Cradle he received a knock . Y ou herd how this clown began to Compliment , Though maids did on him frown , he gave himself content . He was mighty gallant being Clothed in Grey He thought no girl in the Nation , ere would say him nay But this is my humour , Since that maids may Choose I scorn such silly fellows , ere should wipe my shoes . The Second Part to the same Tune . TO His same simple fellow void of wit or grace , Made bold attempt , and staired me in the face . He made no other question , but I were his own , As by these following verses to you shall be shown , To this height and bigness he could Crack and lie , Yet our folks can witness he were scarce Hog high . Of his house and Land , he would brag and boast , Ift was worth twenty pound , I'm sure that was the most , Likewise of his Cattle he did often prate . His tongue went prittle prattle . to get him a mate , His case I never pitied , cause his means were small Beside he was half witted which was worst of all . Sarah said he danced , just like to a Clown . Nan did vow and swear , the boys would put him down Doll and Sue and Prudence could not him abide , Though Frank smiled upon him she did him deride . He was such a fellow , when he danced a Jig He kissed like [ P ] unchanello or a sucking big . The space of half and hour this Lobcock he did prate I had no other power but lay him over the pate , When he understood I could not him abide , H e in a sullen mood then Sat him down and Cried . Quoth his foolish mother , why art thou so slack . Once again go try her , clapping him o'th back . Then undauntedly , without wit or fear , H e to my face did say that I must be his dear . Although I did stave him , he was impudent , In truth I would not have him if he owned Kent . Thus he was deceived as you plainly see , Cause our Resolutions , could not well agree . H e need not Leap for joy , of any thing he gained . Nor made the Woe [ r ] ld to know a Wife he had obtained For rather then I'll marry , such a Clownish Jack I'l buy a witty fellow , Clothes to put on s back Though some fools have Fortune this we daily see And does Conquer many , None shall conquer me FINIS . London , Printed for R. Burton , at the Horshoo in West-Smithfield . The merry Country MAIDS ANSWER To the Country Lovers Conquest : Exactly a description she does make And gets it Printed for her Sweethearts sake Of all his Courting Compliments and Lies , His proper person , and his qualities The match is half made up , you'll say good sirs , For she hath his good will , he wants hers . The Tune is , Once I Loved a Lass with a Rolling Eye . O Nce I knew a Lad with a brazen face His Carriage was so bad When he did me embrace That I could not love him , had he bags of Gold Money shall not tempt me . I will not be fooled , I could not endure him truth I do not mock , Because that in his Cradle he received a knock . Y ou herd how this clown began to Compliment , Though maids did on him frown , he gave himself content . He was mighty gallant being Clothed in Grey He thought no girl in the Nation , ere would say him nay But this is my humour , Since that maids may Choose I scorn such silly fellows , ere should wipe my shoes . The Second Part to the same Tune . TO His same simple fellow void of wit or grace , Made bold attempt , and staired me in the face . He made no other question , but I were his own , As by these following verses to you shall be shown , To this height and bigness he could Crack and lie , Yet our folks can witness he were scarce Hog high . Of his house and Land , he would brag and boast , Ift was worth twenty pound , I'm sure that was the most , Likewise of his Cattle he did often prate . His tongue went prittle prattle . to get him a mate , His case I never pitied , cause his means were small Beside he was half witted which was worst of all . Sarah said he danced , just like to a Clown . Nan did vow and swear , the boys would put him down Doll and Sue and Prudence could not him abide , Though Frank smiled upon him she did him deride . He was such a fellow , when he danced a Jig He kissed like [ P ] unchanello or a sucking big . The space of half and hour this Lobcock he did prate I had no other power but lay him over the pate , When he understood I could not him abide , H e in a sullen mood then Sat him down and Cried . Quoth his foolish mother , why art thou so slack . Once again go try her , clapping him o'th back . Then undauntedly , without wit or fear , H e to my face did say that I must be his dear . Although I did stave him , he was impudent , In truth I would not have him if he owned Kent . Thus he was deceived as you plainly see , Cause our Resolutions , could not well agree . H e need not Leap for joy , of any thing he gained . Nor made the Woe [ r ] ld to know a Wife he had obtained For rather then I'll marry , such a Clownish Jack I'l buy a witty fellow , Clothes to put on s back Though some fools have Fortune this we daily see And does Conquer many , None shall conquer me FINIS . London , Printed for R. Burton , at the Horshoo in West-Smithfield . 