ALEXIS LOYALTY : OR , Fair Aminta's Sorrows Crowned with unspeakable Joy and Happiness BEING And Answer to My L ife and my Death : To the same Tune . This may be Printed , R. P. TO High Life and thy Death thou didst freely declare , Lay both in my power , but never despair ; I cannot be Cruel , Love cease to complain , Since I am returned to Aminta again , I'll Crown thee with Flowers most gallant and gay , And make thee to shine like the Sun at Noonday . Those tender Embraces my Dear shall enjoy , And nothing that's grievous shall ever annoy Aminta my jewel , the joy of my life , I will put and end to all trouble and strife : We'll feed our Flocks by the fair flowing Spring , When Birds from their throats most sweet Anthems they sing . Where ever I wander thy Fame I will raise , And never will cease for to speak in thy praise ; To thee , my sweet Creature , this promise I make , Nay , farther than this , I could die for thy sake : The Mountains and Rocks may as easy remove , As I prove Disloyal and false to my Love . Then dry up those tears from thy beautiful eyes , And let not those sorrows thy senses surprise ; It was but to try thy affection my dear , And since thou art Loyal , my love shall appear : I never will wander from thee any more , Thou fairest of Creatures , whom I do adore . M Y dear , I am sorry that I did presume By absence to try thee , had death been thy doom My grief had been greater then I could endure , A Grave must have been thy Alexis his Cure : But farewell Aminta , now pardon me this , And let it appear the renewing of Bliss , As Phoebus , when chasing away the cold Night , Adorn the Day with a more Glorious Light ; So shall the dark Clouds of thy sorrow and pain , Be scattered quite , and no longer remain : I'll grant thee what ever in my power does lie , Thou canst not ask that which thy Love can deny . O then she replied with a trembling voice , My heart is transported , in thee I rejoice ; While we are divided , I freely relate , In love I did languish , my torments was great : In Dreams I beheld thee whom I did adore , But waking , my sorrows increased the more . When I from those slumbers ( alas ) did awake , Oh then my poor heart w [ oh ] uld be ready to break ; My senses surrounded with troops of new fears , And I a [ l ] m [ oh ] st drowned in sorrowful tears : TO [ h ] en [ si ] g [ h ] ing and weeping , still making my moan , As I [ in ] the Valleys did wander alone . Thus ranging the Valleys and Flowery Plain , I often desired to see thee again ; At length I beheld my Alexis indeed , To whom , like a Lover , I run with all speed ; For why , I declare it , I could do no less , My joys they are greater than I can express . With thee my sweet creature I now will remain , Thou never shalt have the like cause to complain ; Then let my Aminta forget all her Grief , Since I am returned to afford thee relief ; And Crown thee with pleasures , love be of good cheer The pride of my heart , I adore thee my dear . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . ALEXIS LOYALTY : OR , Fair Aminta's Sorrows Crowned with unspeakable Joy and Happiness BEING And Answer to My L ife and my Death : To the same Tune . This may be Printed , R. P. TO High Life and thy Death thou didst freely declare , Lay both in my power , but never despair ; I cannot be Cruel , Love cease to complain , Since I am returned to Aminta again , I'll Crown thee with Flowers most gallant and gay , And make thee to shine like the Sun at Noonday . Those tender Embraces my Dear shall enjoy , And nothing that's grievous shall ever annoy Aminta my jewel , the joy of my life , I will put and end to all trouble and strife : We'll feed our Flocks by the fair flowing Spring , When Birds from their throats most sweet Anthems they sing . Where ever I wander thy Fame I will raise , And never will cease for to speak in thy praise ; To thee , my sweet Creature , this promise I make , Nay , farther than this , I could die for thy sake : The Mountains and Rocks may as easy remove , As I prove Disloyal and false to my Love . Then dry up those tears from thy beautiful eyes , And let not those sorrows thy senses surprise ; It was but to try thy affection my dear , And since thou art Loyal , my love shall appear : I never will wander from thee any more , Thou fairest of Creatures , whom I do adore . M Y dear , I am sorry that I did presume By absence to try thee , had death been thy doom My grief had been greater then I could endure , A Grave must have been thy Alexis his Cure : But farewell Aminta , now pardon me this , And let it appear the renewing of Bliss , As Phoebus , when chasing away the cold Night , Adorn the Day with a more Glorious Light ; So shall the dark Clouds of thy sorrow and pain , Be scattered quite , and no longer remain : I'll grant thee what ever in my power does lie , Thou canst not ask that which thy Love can deny . O then she replied with a trembling voice , My heart is transported , in thee I rejoice ; While we are divided , I freely relate , In love I did languish , my torments was great : In Dreams I beheld thee whom I did adore , But waking , my sorrows increased the more . When I from those slumbers ( alas ) did awake , Oh then my poor heart w [ oh ] uld be ready to break ; My senses surrounded with troops of new fears , And I a [ l ] m [ oh ] st drowned in sorrowful tears : TO [ h ] en [ si ] g [ h ] ing and weeping , still making my moan , As I [ in ] the Valleys did wander alone . Thus ranging the Valleys and Flowery Plain , I often desired to see thee again ; At length I beheld my Alexis indeed , To whom , like a Lover , I run with all speed ; For why , I declare it , I could do no less , My joys they are greater than I can express . With thee my sweet creature I now will remain , Thou never shalt have the like cause to complain ; Then let my Aminta forget all her Grief , Since I am returned to afford thee relief ; And Crown thee with pleasures , love be of good cheer The pride of my heart , I adore thee my dear . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 