Kind WILLIAM , Or , Constant Betty . Let Maids beware , and shun the Snare , I say be ruled by me , Though you embrace , be perfect chaste , from stains of Infamy . To the Tune of the Doubting Virgin . C Onstant Betty that sweet creature , she was Williams hearts delight , In the shades he chanced to meet her , when fair Phoebus shined bright : In conclusion , his delusion , was to bring her to his bow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered , no , no , no . Then his Betty he embraced , hoping for to win the field , She with Modesty was graced , and resolved not to yield . She denied , he replied , do not seek my overthrow ; Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered , no , no , no . Thou hast set mine heart on fire , sweetest creature be not coy , Grant me what I do desire , thou shalt be my only joy Thus he wooed her to delude her , and to bring her to his bow ; Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered no , no , no . Love thou art my only Treasure , then he took her by the hand . Let me now enjoy the pleasure , I will be at thy command : Don't abuse me , nor refuse me , lest it proves my overthrow ; Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , But she answered , no , no , no . Now admit me , my sweet Betty , to salute and lay thee down , None alive I think more pretty , I with pleasures will thee Crown : Don't deny it , do but try it , from those Charms such pleasures flow Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered , no , no , no . Thy obliging eye hath wone me , dearest I am not in jest , Why shouldst thou be coy and shun me , I am certainly possessed With thy beauty , for my duty , is to bring thee to my bow ; Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered , no , no , no . Dearest Betty fit down by me , let us lovingly agree , Sweetest creature don't deny me , Cupids Dart hath wounded me : Then come near me , love and cheer me , for my heart is sinking low , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I but she answered no , no Bettys Answer to Williams's Request . William you are much mistaken , you shall never me ensnare , In your Net i'll not be taken , therefore now your suit forbear : I'll deny it , and defy it , for I vow it shan't be so ; While I Marry , I will tarry , and will answer , no , no , no . I from Love will be excluded , ever i'll hear and idle Tale , I will never be deluded , no , nor you shall never prevail , To embrace me , and disgrace me , thus to sink my heart full low , While I Marry , I will tarry , and will answer , no , no , no . William . Now my loving constant Betty , I will evermore adore , For thy Answer has been witty , I will never tempt thee more : When I tried thee , thou denied me , all thy answer still was not , We'll not tarry , but will Marry , then it must and shall be so . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-street without Newgate . Kind WILLIAM , Or , Constant Betty . Let Maids beware , and shun the Snare , I say be ruled by me , Though you embrace , be perfect chaste , from stains of Infamy . To the Tune of the Doubting Virgin . C Onstant Betty that sweet creature , she was Williams hearts delight , In the shades he chanced to meet her , when fair Phoebus shined bright : In conclusion , his delusion , was to bring her to his bow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered , no , no , no . Then his Betty he embraced , hoping for to win the field , She with Modesty was graced , and resolved not to yield . She denied , he replied , do not seek my overthrow ; Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered , no , no , no . Thou hast set mine heart on fire , sweetest creature be not coy , Grant me what I do desire , thou shalt be my only joy Thus he wooed her to delude her , and to bring her to his bow ; Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered no , no , no . Love thou art my only Treasure , then he took her by the hand . Let me now enjoy the pleasure , I will be at thy command : Don't abuse me , nor refuse me , lest it proves my overthrow ; Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , But she answered , no , no , no . Now admit me , my sweet Betty , to salute and lay thee down , None alive I think more pretty , I with pleasures will thee Crown : Don't deny it , do but try it , from those Charms such pleasures flow Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered , no , no , no . Thy obliging eye hath wone me , dearest I am not in jest , Why shouldst thou be coy and shun me , I am certainly possessed With thy beauty , for my duty , is to bring thee to my bow ; Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answered , no , no , no . Dearest Betty fit down by me , let us lovingly agree , Sweetest creature don't deny me , Cupids Dart hath wounded me : Then come near me , love and cheer me , for my heart is sinking low , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I but she answered no , no Bettys Answer to Williams's Request . William you are much mistaken , you shall never me ensnare , In your Net i'll not be taken , therefore now your suit forbear : I'll deny it , and defy it , for I vow it shan't be so ; While I Marry , I will tarry , and will answer , no , no , no . I from Love will be excluded , ever i'll hear and idle Tale , I will never be deluded , no , nor you shall never prevail , To embrace me , and disgrace me , thus to sink my heart full low , While I Marry , I will tarry , and will answer , no , no , no . William . Now my loving constant Betty , I will evermore adore , For thy Answer has been witty , I will never tempt thee more : When I tried thee , thou denied me , all thy answer still was not , We'll not tarry , but will Marry , then it must and shall be so . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-street without Newgate . 