THE OLD WOMAN'S RESOLUTION : OR , A Dialogue betwixt Jack Drumbold and his Old Granny Gregory , who Vowed she would Marry though Fourscore years and Ten because she would Shoe her Horse round . To the Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . TO Here was and Old Woman then , who had a great mind to Wed , Who was full Fourscore years and Ten , and had not a Tooth in her head . With Age she does grunt and groan , each Night as she lies in Bed , But yet a Husband's all her Tone , [ although not a Tooth in her Head. ] She has a Grandson called Jack , by whom she's often led : Quoth he , Do you a Husband lack ? and yet not a Tooth in your Head. Why Sirrah , she then replied , My Cheeks they are Crimson Read , Therefore I hope to be a Bride , I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Dear Granny , quoth Jack , not so , your Face is like Winter dead , Likewise your Hair's as white as Snow , and not a good Tooth in your head . The Old Woman told him straight , she'd Cuff him for what he'd said , I must and will enjoy a Mate , I have a Colt's Tooth in my Head. Why Granny , quoth he , you're old , and hardly can crawl to Bed , Your Limbs is stiff , your Blood is cold , and not a good Tooth in your head . Her Crutch straight she made himfel , and likewise in a Passion said , I am as nimble as and Eel , and have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Good Granny , be not in a heat , for you are too Old to Wed ; Pray think upon a Winding-sheet , you han't a good Tooth in your head . Why Sirrah , I a'nt Fivescore , and therefore I vow to Wed , What! would you have me play the Whore ? I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Quoth Jack , Your alluring Charms , must needs please a Man in Bed , To have cold Death lie in his Arms , you han't a good Tooth in your head . Quoth she , Are you Saucy still ? In faith I will strike you dead ; But Rascal now say what you will I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Sometime I am dull by chance , but strait I am Cherry-red , A Cogue will make me skip and dance , I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . I have had Three honest Men , which now are laid under the Grou [ and , ] And though I am Fourscore and tO [ en , ] I reckon to shoe my Horse round [ , ] Why then , said her Grandson Jack , I will in a Bound be bound , If you a Hazle-Nut can crack , that then you shall shoe your Horse round . Then she to her Trumps was put , but straight a quere way she found , For with her Crutch she cracked the Nut , because she would shoe her Horse round . The Old Woman wone the Day , she capered and inch from Ground , I'll have a Husband by my Faith , and then I shall shoe my Horse round . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE OLD WOMAN'S RESOLUTION : OR , A Dialogue betwixt Jack Drumbold and his Old Granny Gregory , who Vowed she would Marry though Fourscore years and Ten because she would Shoe her Horse round . To the Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . TO Here was and Old Woman then , who had a great mind to Wed , Who was full Fourscore years and Ten , and had not a Tooth in her head . With Age she does grunt and groan , each Night as she lies in Bed , But yet a Husband's all her Tone , [ although not a Tooth in her Head. ] She has a Grandson called Jack , by whom she's often led : Quoth he , Do you a Husband lack ? and yet not a Tooth in your Head. Why Sirrah , she then replied , My Cheeks they are Crimson Read , Therefore I hope to be a Bride , I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Dear Granny , quoth Jack , not so , your Face is like Winter dead , Likewise your Hair's as white as Snow , and not a good Tooth in your head . The Old Woman told him straight , she'd Cuff him for what he'd said , I must and will enjoy a Mate , I have a Colt's Tooth in my Head. Why Granny , quoth he , you're old , and hardly can crawl to Bed , Your Limbs is stiff , your Blood is cold , and not a good Tooth in your head . Her Crutch straight she made himfel , and likewise in a Passion said , I am as nimble as and Eel , and have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Good Granny , be not in a heat , for you are too Old to Wed ; Pray think upon a Winding-sheet , you han't a good Tooth in your head . Why Sirrah , I a'nt Fivescore , and therefore I vow to Wed , What! would you have me play the Whore ? I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Quoth Jack , Your alluring Charms , must needs please a Man in Bed , To have cold Death lie in his Arms , you han't a good Tooth in your head . Quoth she , Are you Saucy still ? In faith I will strike you dead ; But Rascal now say what you will I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Sometime I am dull by chance , but strait I am Cherry-red , A Cogue will make me skip and dance , I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . I have had Three honest Men , which now are laid under the Grou [ and , ] And though I am Fourscore and tO [ en , ] I reckon to shoe my Horse round [ , ] Why then , said her Grandson Jack , I will in a Bound be bound , If you a Hazle-Nut can crack , that then you shall shoe your Horse round . Then she to her Trumps was put , but straight a quere way she found , For with her Crutch she cracked the Nut , because she would shoe her Horse round . The Old Woman wone the Day , she capered and inch from Ground , I'll have a Husband by my Faith , and then I shall shoe my Horse round . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 