Jenny Crack : or , A brisk Encounter between two Lov [ er ] s . Showing the brave behaviour of a young Gallant , that stormed his Mistress's outworks , gained her Half-Moo [ n ] , entered her Fort-Royal ; but she at last rallying her Forces , baffled his Sentinels , made him draw off his men , and himself was forced to sneak out of her Sally-port sadly disabled . To a new Tune much in request , called , I told young Jenny , etc I Told young Jenny I loved her well , With a zeal that I thought would have moved her , For I gave her earnest in hand to boot , And I knew by the bargain I told stand to't : But the Gypsie cunningly taught by her sire , Cried mar [ r ] y or else forsake me ; When you've filled my belly , and your desire , You'll be d [ a ] mned before you will take me . But her old Dad of his own accord , Did make himself as Drunk as a Lord , And hope's to find it a Wedding-day , S [ oh ] I took up my Jenny and carried her away . Let her scratch and bite , let her kick and wince , Now i've god her into my Clutches : She's witty and fair , she's a Gem for a Prince , And in time she may be a Duchess . We took a Lodging and went to bed , And I thought to have met with a Maidenhead ; Within her quarters no sooner I god , But the Jade in merriment cried you Sot , Thou'rt as great a bubble as ever was seen , so idly thy self to Cozen : Thou lookest for a Maidenhead at fifteen , which thou'lt hardly find at a dozen . For Women so forward of late are grown , That their fruit is ripe as soon as it's blown , Some marry their daughters at half a score , Or else at eleven they play the Whore : If a girl be wise : as soon as she can , she'l be rid of her troublesome jewel , And certainly nothing but oil of man , can allay the heat of her fuel . She made me laugh , and I could not forbear , To think she had fitted my Cock to a hair , And yet you must know I was vexed at the heart , To find and old bull [ y ] outdone in his art : For when so modest her looks I found , i'de have ventured my life to a shilling , If a man would have given a thousand pound , Young Jenny would never would , been billing . The second Part , To the same Tune . W Hen first I knew her she made me stand , And wait a while for a kiss of her hand ; But when I came to a touch of her Lip , 'Twas so cloying a favour I must but sip : When I felt her breast she cried I was bold , And checked me for being uncivil : But when I came to her Copyhold , I found her as mad as the Devil . Then since I saw she was right for the sport , I resolved to be leager and enter the fort , As soon as my Centinel came to the gate , I put him a nocking because it was late . And the Garrison readily spoke within , Your party may safely adventure , For I am as willing to let you in , As ever you was to enter . No sooner within the gates had I god , But I thought it convenient to give her a shot , And she from a mortar-piece that she had , Let fly a Granado I thought her mad . But when I gave her a fresh alarm , She told me I did but vapour , For the bullets I shot would do her no harm , No more than pellets of paper . So oft we charged that she baffled my men , Till they sneaked at her sally-port out again , My ammunition I found was spent , So I put on my clothes and away I went . Ah Jenny said I , I must bid thee adieu , It's a folly to stay any longer , For still I found that the weaker I grew , Young Jenny grew stronger and stronger . Thus you have herd me fully relate , The tricks that Jenny and I have been at : But what will be the event of our blows , I think O'my conscience no body knows . But if my tackling should be spoiled , I faith I shall look like a Ninny : And if my Mistress should prove with child , The worst will fallen upon Jenny . FINIS . Printed for P. B rooksby , in West-smithfield . Jenny Crack : or , A brisk Encounter between two Lov [ er ] s . Showing the brave behaviour of a young Gallant , that stormed his Mistress's outworks , gained her Half-Moo [ n ] , entered her Fort-Royal ; but she at last rallying her Forces , baffled his Sentinels , made him draw off his men , and himself was forced to sneak out of her Sally-port sadly disabled . To a new Tune much in request , called , I told young Jenny , etc I Told young Jenny I loved her well , With a zeal that I thought would have moved her , For I gave her earnest in hand to boot , And I knew by the bargain I told stand to't : But the Gypsie cunningly taught by her sire , Cried mar [ r ] y or else forsake me ; When you've filled my belly , and your desire , You'll be d [ a ] mned before you will take me . But her old Dad of his own accord , Did make himself as Drunk as a Lord , And hope's to find it a Wedding-day , S [ oh ] I took up my Jenny and carried her away . Let her scratch and bite , let her kick and wince , Now i've god her into my Clutches : She's witty and fair , she's a Gem for a Prince , And in time she may be a Duchess . We took a Lodging and went to bed , And I thought to have met with a Maidenhead ; Within her quarters no sooner I god , But the Jade in merriment cried you Sot , Thou'rt as great a bubble as ever was seen , so idly thy self to Cozen : Thou lookest for a Maidenhead at fifteen , which thou'lt hardly find at a dozen . For Women so forward of late are grown , That their fruit is ripe as soon as it's blown , Some marry their daughters at half a score , Or else at eleven they play the Whore : If a girl be wise : as soon as she can , she'l be rid of her troublesome jewel , And certainly nothing but oil of man , can allay the heat of her fuel . She made me laugh , and I could not forbear , To think she had fitted my Cock to a hair , And yet you must know I was vexed at the heart , To find and old bull [ y ] outdone in his art : For when so modest her looks I found , i'de have ventured my life to a shilling , If a man would have given a thousand pound , Young Jenny would never would , been billing . The second Part , To the same Tune . W Hen first I knew her she made me stand , And wait a while for a kiss of her hand ; But when I came to a touch of her Lip , 'Twas so cloying a favour I must but sip : When I felt her breast she cried I was bold , And checked me for being uncivil : But when I came to her Copyhold , I found her as mad as the Devil . Then since I saw she was right for the sport , I resolved to be leager and enter the fort , As soon as my Centinel came to the gate , I put him a nocking because it was late . And the Garrison readily spoke within , Your party may safely adventure , For I am as willing to let you in , As ever you was to enter . No sooner within the gates had I god , But I thought it convenient to give her a shot , And she from a mortar-piece that she had , Let fly a Granado I thought her mad . But when I gave her a fresh alarm , She told me I did but vapour , For the bullets I shot would do her no harm , No more than pellets of paper . So oft we charged that she baffled my men , Till they sneaked at her sally-port out again , My ammunition I found was spent , So I put on my clothes and away I went . Ah Jenny said I , I must bid thee adieu , It's a folly to stay any longer , For still I found that the weaker I grew , Young Jenny grew stronger and stronger . Thus you have herd me fully relate , The tricks that Jenny and I have been at : But what will be the event of our blows , I think O'my conscience no body knows . But if my tackling should be spoiled , I faith I shall look like a Ninny : And if my Mistress should prove with child , The worst will fallen upon Jenny . FINIS . Printed for P. B rooksby , in West-smithfield . 