DICKS LOYALTY To his True Love NANCY : OR , A Famous Wedding : With and account of all the pleasant Passages that attended that Day . The Crouds and Pipers they did play , the Youngmen Dance and sing ; For the honour of this day , the Bell [ s ] did sweetly Ring , To the Tune of , The Maids a Washing . DICK resolved to Court young NAN , and in his wooing he thus went on , If thou canst love me , i'll wed thee , and bed thee And prove to my dear a right honest Man. There's young Bridget would fain be my Bride , Nay Sue , and Sarah with Doll beside , Nay Kate , and Winny , with Sisly and Jone , But thou art the Lass that I love alone . If thou canst any kindness show To thy beloved , before I go , I prithee tell me , never spare it , declare it , My dearest sweet Nancy , say I or no : If thou wilt to thy Richard be kind , I prithee now let me know thy mind , For thou art she whom I dearly adore , I never in my life was in Love before . Love , no longer in silence stand , What ever I have , is at thy command , And I have Riches , most plenty , full twenty Good Acres , my Dearest , of free-hold-land : Unto which I my dearest will bring , And now in token receive this ring Grant me thy favour then shall I be blessed , My love it is loyal , I an't in jest . Well said she , if thy words are true , I never will marry with none but you , I now no more will deny you , but try you , Why should I stand making a deal of doe : For thou art of so worthy a Grace , That here thy kindness I must embrace , With thee i'll marry , thy mind to fulfil , If I do not , there is enough that will . Now there's nothing could them annoy , He being Loyal and she not coy , Oh then young Richard was airy and merry , He likewise did Caper and Jump for joy : They appointed the day to be Wed , And all the Young Men and Maids they bid , Young Nan the Bride was both bonny and gay , She looked like the beautiful Queen of May . Dick he put on his Roast-meat Clothes , His Buck-Skin Breeches , his Shoes and Hose . Young Will , with Robin , and Marry , and Sarah , Nay Daniel , with R oger , and Ralph , and Rose : These attended the Bridegroom and Bride , With forty couple at least beside , They being Married then homeward they went To spend all their Day in much merriment . Then a Dinner he did prepare , For all his company that was there , He freely giving his treasure for pleasure , No manner of charges would Richard spare : Ralph the Fiddler came with this crowd , And Simon played on his Pipes as loud , When after Dinner to Dancing they go , Each Maiden with laughing would lie down low . Ralph and Rose they did led a Dance , Then Kate and Roger did next advance , Then Will and Robin , with Winny and Jenny , But Margery met with a sad mischance : She among them would fain have made one , But yet alas she was left alone , Theres no man kissed her from Morning till night Which made her lament , I , and well she might . Thus their merriment did abound , And many kisses went freely round , They all were pleased with tripping & amp ; clipping , For Margery she at the last was found : Then the Fiddlers they did release , And Pipers , giving them Groats a piece , The Day was ended with joy and delight , And e'ry one went to their home at night . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded - spur-street , without Newgate . DICKS LOYALTY To his True Love NANCY : OR , A Famous Wedding : With and account of all the pleasant Passages that attended that Day . The Crouds and Pipers they did play , the Youngmen Dance and sing ; For the honour of this day , the Bell [ s ] did sweetly Ring , To the Tune of , The Maids a Washing . DICK resolved to Court young NAN , and in his wooing he thus went on , If thou canst love me , i'll wed thee , and bed thee And prove to my dear a right honest Man. There's young Bridget would fain be my Bride , Nay Sue , and Sarah with Doll beside , Nay Kate , and Winny , with Sisly and Jone , But thou art the Lass that I love alone . If thou canst any kindness show To thy beloved , before I go , I prithee tell me , never spare it , declare it , My dearest sweet Nancy , say I or no : If thou wilt to thy Richard be kind , I prithee now let me know thy mind , For thou art she whom I dearly adore , I never in my life was in Love before . Love , no longer in silence stand , What ever I have , is at thy command , And I have Riches , most plenty , full twenty Good Acres , my Dearest , of free-hold-land : Unto which I my dearest will bring , And now in token receive this ring Grant me thy favour then shall I be blessed , My love it is loyal , I an't in jest . Well said she , if thy words are true , I never will marry with none but you , I now no more will deny you , but try you , Why should I stand making a deal of doe : For thou art of so worthy a Grace , That here thy kindness I must embrace , With thee i'll marry , thy mind to fulfil , If I do not , there is enough that will . Now there's nothing could them annoy , He being Loyal and she not coy , Oh then young Richard was airy and merry , He likewise did Caper and Jump for joy : They appointed the day to be Wed , And all the Young Men and Maids they bid , Young Nan the Bride was both bonny and gay , She looked like the beautiful Queen of May . Dick he put on his Roast-meat Clothes , His Buck-Skin Breeches , his Shoes and Hose . Young Will , with Robin , and Marry , and Sarah , Nay Daniel , with R oger , and Ralph , and Rose : These attended the Bridegroom and Bride , With forty couple at least beside , They being Married then homeward they went To spend all their Day in much merriment . Then a Dinner he did prepare , For all his company that was there , He freely giving his treasure for pleasure , No manner of charges would Richard spare : Ralph the Fiddler came with this crowd , And Simon played on his Pipes as loud , When after Dinner to Dancing they go , Each Maiden with laughing would lie down low . Ralph and Rose they did led a Dance , Then Kate and Roger did next advance , Then Will and Robin , with Winny and Jenny , But Margery met with a sad mischance : She among them would fain have made one , But yet alas she was left alone , Theres no man kissed her from Morning till night Which made her lament , I , and well she might . Thus their merriment did abound , And many kisses went freely round , They all were pleased with tripping & amp ; clipping , For Margery she at the last was found : Then the Fiddlers they did release , And Pipers , giving them Groats a piece , The Day was ended with joy and delight , And e'ry one went to their home at night . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded - spur-street , without Newgate . 