Loves Boundless Power OR , The Charmed Lovers Happiness Completed . Being a most Excellent New Play-Song , most Pleasant and Delightful . Doranus spies the Charming Nymph , whose Power Wounds more then hers , who in a sudden Shower Brought Thunder-bearing Jove from lofty Skies , To pay Devotion to her Stary Eyes : He's Conquered , and entreats , to which she yields Phillis the Glory , both of Woods and Fields : Does condescend to Love , and Crowns his Wish , With Joys transending any Mortal Bliss . To the Tune of , When Busy Fame , etc H Ail to the Myrtle Shade , all hail to'th Nymphs of the field Rings will not here Invade , though Virtue all freedom yields : Beauty here opens her arms , to soften the Languishing mind , And Phillis unlocks her Charms , ah ! Phillis so fair and unkind . Phillis the Soul of Love , the joy of the neighbouring Swains , Phillis that Crowns the Grove , and does guide the flowering Plains : Phillis who never had skill to Paint , or to Patch , or be fine , Yet Phillis whose eyes can kill , that Nature hath made Divine . Phillis whose Charming tongue , makes labour and pain delight , Phillis that makes the day long , and shortens the livelong night . Phillis whose Lips like May , still laughs on those sweets they bring Whose love never knew decay , but thence flows Eternal Spring . Her eyes like Stars appear , from her Angel-face they shine , As Phoebus in his Sphere they dazel this Soul of mine ; While Rosy Cheeks overspread , with fragrant and rich Perfume , There Cupid makes his Bed , where choice pleasures ever bloom : And pleasant Nectar Sips , o ! where joys for ever grow , Eke from her Corral Lips , enclosing Pearls as white as Snow : So Ravishing and fair , no Mortal ever yet viewed , Transports beyond compare , which Caesar would have subdued . And force from him his Arms , while he his great Conquest yields , And bows to Phillis Charms , triumphs of his Conquered Fields : Laying his Greatness down , even at her Virgins feet , In Romes Imperial Crown , my bright Phillis Love to meet . Or Alexander whom the proud Eastern world obeyed , Might here have sought a Room , and in his Conquests laid : What joys seized when by'th Spring , o ! I first beheld her face , Such as bright Angels bring to the Dying Saints apace . I lowly bowed to earth , and kiss the humble ground , Telling her of my Birth , I and of my fatal Wound : She smiled upon me then , and sighing , alas poor Swain , So smiled and sighed again , and straight bid me not complain . Then in her Ivory Arms , she raised me softly , crying , Alas ! what can my Charms so powerful prove in trying : My Doranus to destroy , then I leaning on her breast , And while she called me joy , I with trembling Lips them pressed . At which she laid her down among the Lilies fair , And there my Love did Crown , with joys far beyond compare ; Such Heavenly transports none upon earth could ever yield , Except Phillis alone , who Charms the Woods and Field . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . Loves Boundless Power OR , The Charmed Lovers Happiness Completed . Being a most Excellent New Play-Song , most Pleasant and Delightful . Doranus spies the Charming Nymph , whose Power Wounds more then hers , who in a sudden Shower Brought Thunder-bearing Jove from lofty Skies , To pay Devotion to her Stary Eyes : He's Conquered , and entreats , to which she yields Phillis the Glory , both of Woods and Fields : Does condescend to Love , and Crowns his Wish , With Joys transending any Mortal Bliss . To the Tune of , When Busy Fame , etc H Ail to the Myrtle Shade , all hail to'th Nymphs of the field Rings will not here Invade , though Virtue all freedom yields : Beauty here opens her arms , to soften the Languishing mind , And Phillis unlocks her Charms , ah ! Phillis so fair and unkind . Phillis the Soul of Love , the joy of the neighbouring Swains , Phillis that Crowns the Grove , and does guide the flowering Plains : Phillis who never had skill to Paint , or to Patch , or be fine , Yet Phillis whose eyes can kill , that Nature hath made Divine . Phillis whose Charming tongue , makes labour and pain delight , Phillis that makes the day long , and shortens the livelong night . Phillis whose Lips like May , still laughs on those sweets they bring Whose love never knew decay , but thence flows Eternal Spring . Her eyes like Stars appear , from her Angel-face they shine , As Phoebus in his Sphere they dazel this Soul of mine ; While Rosy Cheeks overspread , with fragrant and rich Perfume , There Cupid makes his Bed , where choice pleasures ever bloom : And pleasant Nectar Sips , o ! where joys for ever grow , Eke from her Corral Lips , enclosing Pearls as white as Snow : So Ravishing and fair , no Mortal ever yet viewed , Transports beyond compare , which Caesar would have subdued . And force from him his Arms , while he his great Conquest yields , And bows to Phillis Charms , triumphs of his Conquered Fields : Laying his Greatness down , even at her Virgins feet , In Romes Imperial Crown , my bright Phillis Love to meet . Or Alexander whom the proud Eastern world obeyed , Might here have sought a Room , and in his Conquests laid : What joys seized when by'th Spring , o ! I first beheld her face , Such as bright Angels bring to the Dying Saints apace . I lowly bowed to earth , and kiss the humble ground , Telling her of my Birth , I and of my fatal Wound : She smiled upon me then , and sighing , alas poor Swain , So smiled and sighed again , and straight bid me not complain . Then in her Ivory Arms , she raised me softly , crying , Alas ! what can my Charms so powerful prove in trying : My Doranus to destroy , then I leaning on her breast , And while she called me joy , I with trembling Lips them pressed . At which she laid her down among the Lilies fair , And there my Love did Crown , with joys far beyond compare ; Such Heavenly transports none upon earth could ever yield , Except Phillis alone , who Charms the Woods and Field . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 