Faithful Inflamed Lover : OR , The true Admirer of Beauty . Being and Account of a Worthy Squire that Married a Farmers Daughter . This Beauteous maid his Heart betrayed , he loved her not for store ; He sought not one for Wealth alone , he had enough before . Tune of , Over Hills and High Mountains . N Owe my dearest sweet Jewel , I am come for to prove Whither you can be cruel , or obedient to love : I acquaint you this hour with the pains I endure , Love it lies in thy power , for to kill or to cure . Ever sleeping and waking , still my thoughts is on thee , But it proves my Hearts breaking , when I perfectly see That you give a denial , though my Love it is true , Yet I vow to be Loyal , I can love none but you . In my slumber I fancy that I have in my arms , My most beautiful Nancy , this my senses alarms : Love I then am contented , with a mere Golden Dream , But I wake more to [ r ] mented , in a far worse extreme . O that I might enjoy thee , of a blessing I share , There is none shall annoy thee , I will tender my dear ; In my arms thee i'll nourish , where I will thee enfold , And in Silks thou shalt flourish , love , embroidered with Gold . I will Crown thee with pleasure , now my amorous Girl , And endue thee with treasure , to adorn thee with Pearl ; Being wounded with Beauty , now my dear I adore , Love it is but my duty , were it twenty times more . The Maidens Reply . P Ray attend to the Sequel , and be ruled by me , There is many more equal to your Birth and Degree : It is not my desire , as I freely relate , In the least to aspire , or strive to be great . Though you me do admire , when you call me your dear , Should I grant your desire , I have reason to fear ; Being lowly descended , your Relations will frown , While they are thus offended , I shall be run down . For your proffer I care not , then pray Sir be mute , Nay , to venture I dare not , it's a dangerous suit ; Many covetous parents , as this known to be true , They have set at variance , and divided them too . The M an . It's a trial to Patience , while you are severe , Tell me not of Relations , I adore thee my dear : Then a promise i'll make thee , so thou shalt be sure , I will never forsake thee , now while life does endure . When she found he was Loyal , then the Damsel did yield , Making no more denial , thus he conquered the Field : Then they both were united , in true look to dwell , And the Parents invited , so the matters went well . This may be P rinted . R. P. P rinted for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . Faithful Inflamed Lover : OR , The true Admirer of Beauty . Being and Account of a Worthy Squire that Married a Farmers Daughter . This Beauteous maid his Heart betrayed , he loved her not for store ; He sought not one for Wealth alone , he had enough before . Tune of , Over Hills and High Mountains . N Owe my dearest sweet Jewel , I am come for to prove Whither you can be cruel , or obedient to love : I acquaint you this hour with the pains I endure , Love it lies in thy power , for to kill or to cure . Ever sleeping and waking , still my thoughts is on thee , But it proves my Hearts breaking , when I perfectly see That you give a denial , though my Love it is true , Yet I vow to be Loyal , I can love none but you . In my slumber I fancy that I have in my arms , My most beautiful Nancy , this my senses alarms : Love I then am contented , with a mere Golden Dream , But I wake more to [ r ] mented , in a far worse extreme . O that I might enjoy thee , of a blessing I share , There is none shall annoy thee , I will tender my dear ; In my arms thee i'll nourish , where I will thee enfold , And in Silks thou shalt flourish , love , embroidered with Gold . I will Crown thee with pleasure , now my amorous Girl , And endue thee with treasure , to adorn thee with Pearl ; Being wounded with Beauty , now my dear I adore , Love it is but my duty , were it twenty times more . The Maidens Reply . P Ray attend to the Sequel , and be ruled by me , There is many more equal to your Birth and Degree : It is not my desire , as I freely relate , In the least to aspire , or strive to be great . Though you me do admire , when you call me your dear , Should I grant your desire , I have reason to fear ; Being lowly descended , your Relations will frown , While they are thus offended , I shall be run down . For your proffer I care not , then pray Sir be mute , Nay , to venture I dare not , it's a dangerous suit ; Many covetous parents , as this known to be true , They have set at variance , and divided them too . The M an . It's a trial to Patience , while you are severe , Tell me not of Relations , I adore thee my dear : Then a promise i'll make thee , so thou shalt be sure , I will never forsake thee , now while life does endure . When she found he was Loyal , then the Damsel did yield , Making no more denial , thus he conquered the Field : Then they both were united , in true look to dwell , And the Parents invited , so the matters went well . This may be P rinted . R. P. P rinted for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 