THE Downfall of Dancing ; OR , The overthrow of three Fiddlers , and three Bagg-Pipe-Players , Who Lately broke all their Fiddles and Bagpipes , and Tore their Cloaks ; so that they are utterly ruined : All this was done in a fearful Fray , when one of the Fiddlers catched his Wife with his Fellow Bagg pipe player , at Uptails all . To the Tune of , Robin Goodfellow . TO hree Pipers , and three Fiddlers too , they all belonged to a Gang , One Fidler had a Wife it's true , and she as good as ever did twang : One Piper he , most Craftilee , did give the Fiddlers wife a fallen , With her consent , then too't they went , to play the Game at Uptails all . Quoth she , the pleasure does excel , therefore play me the other strain , He pleased the Fiddlers Wife so well , that they must needs go tooed again : The Fiddler missing him so long , he stepped home to give a call , Where suddenly he did espy , the Piper playing at Uptails all . This did the Fiddler so provoke , and all his Senses did surprise , Then giving him a sturdy stroke , a dreadful Quarrel did arise : Thus blow for blow , then too't they go , the Fiddler he was stout and tall , Then with a stroke , his Pipes he broke , for playing the Game at Uptails all . Tush Husband , be not in a Rage , Oh strive to Mollify your mind , Let reason now you wrath assuage , for he has been to me most kind : I do profess , in my distress , his Love and kindness was not small ; Sweet Husband dear thou need not fear , I scorn to play at Uptails all . Why should you be in such a heat , dear Husband I was in a Found , He came to fell my Pulses beatrice , as I lay panting on the ground : Then why shouldst thou this Quarrel make , to fight and chase , and fret and brawl , I do protest it's your mistake , to think we played at Uptails all . And when they were in this debate , the rest of all the tribe , came in , He did to them in brief Relate , what he before his eyes had seen , He then did rave , and called him Slave , and thus from words to blows did fallen , A bloody fray , was there that day , for playing thus at Uptails all . The Pipers took their Pipers part , and shook the Fiddlers by the Cloak , They with a bold undaunted heart , did deal them many a sturdy stroke : Their Cloaks they tore in this uproar , as they in this confusion fallen , The Fiddlers wife did cause the strife , in playing a Game at Uptails all . The Pipers did the Fiddlers Maul , and now begins the Revel rout , The Fiddles flew in pieces small , and Bagpipes they did fly about Those haughty fools , did break their tools their Crouds and pipes in pieces small , And she the while did stand and smile , to think of the Game of Uptails all . At length this did subdue the pride , of all this cross confused crew , The Room bestrewed from side to side , with pipe and broken Fiddles too : So now this rout , and dreadful bout , did prove the Fiddlers fatal fallen , And Pipers too , and all the Crew , did curse the Game of Uptails all . Those Pipers and those Fiddlers they , yea , every man and Mother's son , Had never and Instrument to play , those creeping Curs are all undone : And now too late , they curse their Fate , they tear their hair and fret their gall , For in this fight they are Ruined quite , and Swear they'll never play Uptails all . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Downfall of Dancing ; OR , The overthrow of three Fiddlers , and three Bagg-Pipe-Players , Who Lately broke all their Fiddles and Bagpipes , and Tore their Cloaks ; so that they are utterly ruined : All this was done in a fearful Fray , when one of the Fiddlers catched his Wife with his Fellow Bagg pipe player , at Uptails all . To the Tune of , Robin Goodfellow . TO hree Pipers , and three Fiddlers too , they all belonged to a Gang , One Fidler had a Wife it's true , and she as good as ever did twang : One Piper he , most Craftilee , did give the Fiddlers wife a fallen , With her consent , then too't they went , to play the Game at Uptails all . Quoth she , the pleasure does excel , therefore play me the other strain , He pleased the Fiddlers Wife so well , that they must needs go tooed again : The Fiddler missing him so long , he stepped home to give a call , Where suddenly he did espy , the Piper playing at Uptails all . This did the Fiddler so provoke , and all his Senses did surprise , Then giving him a sturdy stroke , a dreadful Quarrel did arise : Thus blow for blow , then too't they go , the Fiddler he was stout and tall , Then with a stroke , his Pipes he broke , for playing the Game at Uptails all . Tush Husband , be not in a Rage , Oh strive to Mollify your mind , Let reason now you wrath assuage , for he has been to me most kind : I do profess , in my distress , his Love and kindness was not small ; Sweet Husband dear thou need not fear , I scorn to play at Uptails all . Why should you be in such a heat , dear Husband I was in a Found , He came to fell my Pulses beatrice , as I lay panting on the ground : Then why shouldst thou this Quarrel make , to fight and chase , and fret and brawl , I do protest it's your mistake , to think we played at Uptails all . And when they were in this debate , the rest of all the tribe , came in , He did to them in brief Relate , what he before his eyes had seen , He then did rave , and called him Slave , and thus from words to blows did fallen , A bloody fray , was there that day , for playing thus at Uptails all . The Pipers took their Pipers part , and shook the Fiddlers by the Cloak , They with a bold undaunted heart , did deal them many a sturdy stroke : Their Cloaks they tore in this uproar , as they in this confusion fallen , The Fiddlers wife did cause the strife , in playing a Game at Uptails all . The Pipers did the Fiddlers Maul , and now begins the Revel rout , The Fiddles flew in pieces small , and Bagpipes they did fly about Those haughty fools , did break their tools their Crouds and pipes in pieces small , And she the while did stand and smile , to think of the Game of Uptails all . At length this did subdue the pride , of all this cross confused crew , The Room bestrewed from side to side , with pipe and broken Fiddles too : So now this rout , and dreadful bout , did prove the Fiddlers fatal fallen , And Pipers too , and all the Crew , did curse the Game of Uptails all . Those Pipers and those Fiddlers they , yea , every man and Mother's son , Had never and Instrument to play , those creeping Curs are all undone : And now too late , they curse their Fate , they tear their hair and fret their gall , For in this fight they are Ruined quite , and Swear they'll never play Uptails all . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 