No LOVE , No LIFE , OR , Damon comforted in Distress . You that are adorned with Beauty , do not thus your love disdain , Count it not to be their duty , for to languish thus in pain . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London City . DAmon in the shade was walking ; With fair Phillis he was talking , their discourse was terms of love , He was kind , as you shall find , and evermore did faithful prove . In his arms he did embrace her , Vowing he would never disgrace her , but would still maintain the praise , Of the Creature , whose Sweet Feature was the Glory of her days . The Woman's Reply . Youngmen they will seem most grateful , When their hearts are most deceitful , thus they draw Maids in a snare , And deceive them , thus they leave them , fill their hearts with grief and care . O my love come fit down by me , And my Phillis do but try me , I will ever constant be , The heart of mine , is truly thine , I love none in the world but thee . The Woman's second Reply . How many Maidens thus have died , W hen their loves have them denied , this we find of late is true , Then with tears , and frights and fears , they sighing bid the world adieu . To escape from him she strived , Of his joys he was deprived , grieving at her high disdain ; He was v [ e ] xed and perplexed , yet he called her back again . She regarded not his passion , Leaving him in desperation , till sweet Cupid with his bow , Sent a Dart which pierced her heart , and said it must and shall be so . When she found that she was wounded , She with sighs and sorrows swooned , then again she did revive , She confessed , she was blessed , with the sweetest man alive . Here I sighs , lament and languish , How can [ I ] endure this anguish , I am in a Sea of woe : This sad trial my denial , proves my fatal overthrow . W ith what language did he greet me , And with smiles he did entreat me , yet I still did him deny , My disdain increase my pain , I for love shall surely die . All her sorrows thus he heard , Then he presently appeared , she to him with comfort smiled , Then with Kisses their sweet blisses , all their sorrows had beguiled . Thus their hearts were both united , She with him was much delighted , thus their troubles had and end ; Sorrow ceased love increased , Cupid surely was their friend . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon in Guiltspur-Stree [ tO . ] No LOVE , No LIFE , OR , Damon comforted in Distress . You that are adorned with Beauty , do not thus your love disdain , Count it not to be their duty , for to languish thus in pain . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London City . DAmon in the shade was walking ; With fair Phillis he was talking , their discourse was terms of love , He was kind , as you shall find , and evermore did faithful prove . In his arms he did embrace her , Vowing he would never disgrace her , but would still maintain the praise , Of the Creature , whose Sweet Feature was the Glory of her days . The Woman's Reply . Youngmen they will seem most grateful , When their hearts are most deceitful , thus they draw Maids in a snare , And deceive them , thus they leave them , fill their hearts with grief and care . O my love come fit down by me , And my Phillis do but try me , I will ever constant be , The heart of mine , is truly thine , I love none in the world but thee . The Woman's second Reply . How many Maidens thus have died , W hen their loves have them denied , this we find of late is true , Then with tears , and frights and fears , they sighing bid the world adieu . To escape from him she strived , Of his joys he was deprived , grieving at her high disdain ; He was v [ e ] xed and perplexed , yet he called her back again . She regarded not his passion , Leaving him in desperation , till sweet Cupid with his bow , Sent a Dart which pierced her heart , and said it must and shall be so . When she found that she was wounded , She with sighs and sorrows swooned , then again she did revive , She confessed , she was blessed , with the sweetest man alive . Here I sighs , lament and languish , How can [ I ] endure this anguish , I am in a Sea of woe : This sad trial my denial , proves my fatal overthrow . W ith what language did he greet me , And with smiles he did entreat me , yet I still did him deny , My disdain increase my pain , I for love shall surely die . All her sorrows thus he heard , Then he presently appeared , she to him with comfort smiled , Then with Kisses their sweet blisses , all their sorrows had beguiled . Thus their hearts were both united , She with him was much delighted , thus their troubles had and end ; Sorrow ceased love increased , Cupid surely was their friend . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon in Guiltspur-Stree [ tO . ] 