CUPIDS Victory over the Virgins hearts , OR , LOVE in its Colours . When Cupid's Dart does pierce the heart of a fair Youthful Maid ; She's forced to bend , and not Contend , his Laws must be Obeyed . To a Pleasant New Play-Tune ; Or , The Maids a Washing themselves . This may be Printed , R. P. W Here's my Shepherd ( my love ) hey-ho , On yonder Mountain amid the Snow ; I dearly love him I vow , and now , will follow , and merrily to him go : My young Shepherd has Beauty and Charms And I long to find him in my arms , I long for Night , to Embrace him a Bed , And I long to give him my Maidenhead . Soft and sweet are the joys of Love , Which every Virgin does long to prove , I will not tarry , but Marry , and every Rival will soon remove : Bonny Susan does muse on all night , Upon all our joys and sweet delight , She dreams of Kisses , Embraces , and charms , And she starts , and thinks my love in her arms Sweetly looks the fair Bride in Bed , With thousand Cupids all round her head , She softly sighs , and wishes , and Kisses , as soon as the Curtains are closely spread : Every Bridegroom does then what he please , And the lovely Brides their flames appease , I need not name what young Lovers do do , For it's known to every one , I and to you . Mark how kindly she looks next day , More lively , lovely , more brisk and gay , 'Twould make maids long to be cooing & amp ; wooing to see how these wantons do sport & amp ; play : Some new charm in his looks she espies , And then he looks Babies in her eyes ; Then while her fondling new pleasures does seek She kindly kisses and claps his cheek . Vain it is to be nice and coy , And let old Time all our youth destroy , I like not Whining and pining , for that which one easily mightily enjoy : There are bonny , brisk lovers in store , And then what can Maidens wish for more , What need has Susan to sighs and look pale , When she might over Thomas his heart prevail . Have not Women soft charms and Arts , By Nature given to conquer hearts , Which never does fail , but prevail , as often as ever they shoot their Darts ; No brisk youth can withstand a Maids charms But does strangely soften in her Arms , The Roughest Hero in all the bright field , To a brighter Beauty will bow and yield . Now young buxom fair Maids come here , And learn this Lesson ( to Love give ear ) The little Boy is so pretty and witty , and pleasant and soft , that you need not fear : Roger he shall have Cisley and Nan , And young Kate shall kiss my Ladies Man , Doll shall have William , & amp ; John shall have Jone , And thus neither Sex shall lie alone . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . CUPIDS Victory over the Virgins hearts , OR , LOVE in its Colours . When Cupid's Dart does pierce the heart of a fair Youthful Maid ; She's forced to bend , and not Contend , his Laws must be Obeyed . To a Pleasant New Play-Tune ; Or , The Maids a Washing themselves . This may be Printed , R. P. W Here's my Shepherd ( my love ) hey-ho , On yonder Mountain amid the Snow ; I dearly love him I vow , and now , will follow , and merrily to him go : My young Shepherd has Beauty and Charms And I long to find him in my arms , I long for Night , to Embrace him a Bed , And I long to give him my Maidenhead . Soft and sweet are the joys of Love , Which every Virgin does long to prove , I will not tarry , but Marry , and every Rival will soon remove : Bonny Susan does muse on all night , Upon all our joys and sweet delight , She dreams of Kisses , Embraces , and charms , And she starts , and thinks my love in her arms Sweetly looks the fair Bride in Bed , With thousand Cupids all round her head , She softly sighs , and wishes , and Kisses , as soon as the Curtains are closely spread : Every Bridegroom does then what he please , And the lovely Brides their flames appease , I need not name what young Lovers do do , For it's known to every one , I and to you . Mark how kindly she looks next day , More lively , lovely , more brisk and gay , 'Twould make maids long to be cooing & amp ; wooing to see how these wantons do sport & amp ; play : Some new charm in his looks she espies , And then he looks Babies in her eyes ; Then while her fondling new pleasures does seek She kindly kisses and claps his cheek . Vain it is to be nice and coy , And let old Time all our youth destroy , I like not Whining and pining , for that which one easily mightily enjoy : There are bonny , brisk lovers in store , And then what can Maidens wish for more , What need has Susan to sighs and look pale , When she might over Thomas his heart prevail . Have not Women soft charms and Arts , By Nature given to conquer hearts , Which never does fail , but prevail , as often as ever they shoot their Darts ; No brisk youth can withstand a Maids charms But does strangely soften in her Arms , The Roughest Hero in all the bright field , To a brighter Beauty will bow and yield . Now young buxom fair Maids come here , And learn this Lesson ( to Love give ear ) The little Boy is so pretty and witty , and pleasant and soft , that you need not fear : Roger he shall have Cisley and Nan , And young Kate shall kiss my Ladies Man , Doll shall have William , & amp ; John shall have Jone , And thus neither Sex shall lie alone . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 