The Surprised Shepherdess ; The Shepherdess she sleeping lay [ , ] Thinking no Shepherd nigh , But Strephon came along that way , And did her napping spy . The Tune is , Moggies Jealousy Entered According to Order . TO Here was anam bonny young Lass , that lay in the Meadow asleep A Shepherd close by her did pass , who went for to fold up his Sheep , And turning his eye round about this Damosel he chanced to behold , He straightway resolved to go to't , and forgotten both his sheep and his fold . This Lass she lay sleeping most soundly , and seemed not at all for to wake , The Shepherd he kissed her so roundly his back it began for to ache : He laid himself down for to rest him , this Damosel so brisk and so bold She waked and a thousand times blessed him that forgotten both his sheep and his fold . Quoth she I will gang along with thee , in weal or in woe for to dwell , I'll ever be faithful unto thee , because thou hast pleased me so well : Then doubt not the truth of my story , my mind for to speak I am bold , For in thy sweet sighed I do glory , I will help thee thy sheep for to fold . The Shepherd he wishly did view her , as she told her amorous tale , Which pleasure to him did procure , her eyes over him did prevail : Quoth he , my dear heart , don't deny me , for with thee I mean to be bold , Then once again lie thee down by me , I mind not my sheep nor my fold . This Damosel she quickly consented , and down by the shepherd did lie , They both were extremely contented , she turned up the white of her eye : When the Shepherd was tired with pleasure her arms she about him did fold , I love thee quoth she , beyond measure , then mind not thy sheep nor thy fold . I never will leave nor forsake thee , but travel over Mountains and Rocks , My love and my darling I'll make thee , and help thee to look to thy flocks : We'll love and we'll still lie together , though Winter prove never so cold , I never will matter the weather , come prithee lets hast to thy fold . To thus they away trudged together , and passed the Hills and the Dales , She wandered she could not tell whither , and told him such amorous tales : The shepherd with her was well pleased , though she had no Silver nor Gold , He joyed that upon her he seized , as he was a going to fold . At last all their business was ended , they lovingly folded their sheep , And under the shade they intended , to lay them selves down for to sleep : But the Shepherd he covered her close to keep his poor love from the cold , And what they did you may suppose , for they minded no sheep nor the fold . And thus in the green silent Meadows , they took up their lodging that time , And greatly she pitied those widows , that lost their true Loves in their prime : Quoth she if my Shepherd should leave me , my spirits would quickly grow cold , But I think thou wilt never deceive me , that helped thee thy sheep for to fold . You Lovers that tumble in blisses , come tell me the truth if you can , Is any thing like to the kisses , that comes from a harmless youngman . No no I will never believe , though A thousand times I have be [ en told ] That men are so apt to deceive , Oh it's a pleasure our sheep for to fold . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The Surprised Shepherdess ; The Shepherdess she sleeping lay [ , ] Thinking no Shepherd nigh , But Strephon came along that way , And did her napping spy . The Tune is , Moggies Jealousy Entered According to Order . TO Here was anam bonny young Lass , that lay in the Meadow asleep A Shepherd close by her did pass , who went for to fold up his Sheep , And turning his eye round about this Damosel he chanced to behold , He straightway resolved to go to't , and forgotten both his sheep and his fold . This Lass she lay sleeping most soundly , and seemed not at all for to wake , The Shepherd he kissed her so roundly his back it began for to ache : He laid himself down for to rest him , this Damosel so brisk and so bold She waked and a thousand times blessed him that forgotten both his sheep and his fold . Quoth she I will gang along with thee , in weal or in woe for to dwell , I'll ever be faithful unto thee , because thou hast pleased me so well : Then doubt not the truth of my story , my mind for to speak I am bold , For in thy sweet sighed I do glory , I will help thee thy sheep for to fold . The Shepherd he wishly did view her , as she told her amorous tale , Which pleasure to him did procure , her eyes over him did prevail : Quoth he , my dear heart , don't deny me , for with thee I mean to be bold , Then once again lie thee down by me , I mind not my sheep nor my fold . This Damosel she quickly consented , and down by the shepherd did lie , They both were extremely contented , she turned up the white of her eye : When the Shepherd was tired with pleasure her arms she about him did fold , I love thee quoth she , beyond measure , then mind not thy sheep nor thy fold . I never will leave nor forsake thee , but travel over Mountains and Rocks , My love and my darling I'll make thee , and help thee to look to thy flocks : We'll love and we'll still lie together , though Winter prove never so cold , I never will matter the weather , come prithee lets hast to thy fold . To thus they away trudged together , and passed the Hills and the Dales , She wandered she could not tell whither , and told him such amorous tales : The shepherd with her was well pleased , though she had no Silver nor Gold , He joyed that upon her he seized , as he was a going to fold . At last all their business was ended , they lovingly folded their sheep , And under the shade they intended , to lay them selves down for to sleep : But the Shepherd he covered her close to keep his poor love from the cold , And what they did you may suppose , for they minded no sheep nor the fold . And thus in the green silent Meadows , they took up their lodging that time , And greatly she pitied those widows , that lost their true Loves in their prime : Quoth she if my Shepherd should leave me , my spirits would quickly grow cold , But I think thou wilt never deceive me , that helped thee thy sheep for to fold . You Lovers that tumble in blisses , come tell me the truth if you can , Is any thing like to the kisses , that comes from a harmless youngman . No no I will never believe , though A thousand times I have be [ en told ] That men are so apt to deceive , Oh it's a pleasure our sheep for to fold . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 