The MILK-MAIDS MORNING-SONG . What worse Fortune can there be , Then what does now attend on me , A maid to live , and so to die , It is a great perplexity ; A Pleasant Ballad you have hear , Wherein it's plainly made appear , That what is writ of this milk-ma [ id ] Of other Damsels may be said . To the Tune of , Ginny Gin , Or , The fair one Let me in . A Merry Milk-Maid on a time , as I was passing by , A Milking of her gentle Kine , I chanced to espy : I nearer stepped , and listening stood , and as I drew more near , 'Twas a fair Maid I understood , whose voice did found most clear . A pleasant and delightful Tune , then sounded in mine ear , A sweeter voice I dare presume no Mortal ever did hear : To Lovers all it does belong , then listen unto me , And you shall hear this pleasant song , if you will patient be . I'm glad quoth she , that I'm awake , for torment it's to lie , And such a grievous moan to make , for want of Company : I'de better never go to Bed , then there to lie and pine , And cannot lose my Maidenhead , what Rigid Fate is mine . How happy are those women kind , who do not lie alone , But comfort find , in heart and mind , and never make their moan : While I poor Soul sighs and condole , still wanting Loves delights , Upon my restless Bed I roll ; these long and tedious nights . They hourly taste of Lovers Bliss , and what their hearts desire , They e'ry moment change a kiss , which them with joys inspire : They prate of all the silent night , the sweetness of that Theam , Which I would taste of if I might , it doeh so pleasant seem . O what a fleeting joy is this , it can no pleasure be , When I my expectation miss , it's perfect Death to me ; Just like as in a Looking-Glass , your features you may see , Which from your sighed away does pass , if it removed be . O Cruel Fortune too unkind , tell me the reason why ? That I from Bliss am thus confined , and must a Maiden die : Must I not taste that happiness , which does so pleasant prove , There's nothing can poor Lovers bless , but Syllabub of Love . Must I led Apes in Hell below , no , no , it may not be , For Nature very well I know , did other ways decree : Ten thousand plagues together meet , in harmless Maidens Beds , No loss so pleasant and so sweet , as that of Maiden-Heads . The Married woman she does boast , how rarely she does live , While I Distracted run almost , no comfort I receive : Poor harmless soul I whine and pine , let me do what I can , Nothing more plagues the Soul of mine , than want of a Young-Man . And now Virginity adieu , I'll venture once to try , And steal what I account my endue , a Maid I will not die : And so farewell my Lovely Cows , for I am almost mad , But do resolve to keep my vows , if Man be to be had . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate [ . ] The MILK-MAIDS MORNING-SONG . What worse Fortune can there be , Then what does now attend on me , A maid to live , and so to die , It is a great perplexity ; A Pleasant Ballad you have hear , Wherein it's plainly made appear , That what is writ of this milk-ma [ id ] Of other Damsels may be said . To the Tune of , Ginny Gin , Or , The fair one Let me in . A Merry Milk-Maid on a time , as I was passing by , A Milking of her gentle Kine , I chanced to espy : I nearer stepped , and listening stood , and as I drew more near , 'Twas a fair Maid I understood , whose voice did found most clear . A pleasant and delightful Tune , then sounded in mine ear , A sweeter voice I dare presume no Mortal ever did hear : To Lovers all it does belong , then listen unto me , And you shall hear this pleasant song , if you will patient be . I'm glad quoth she , that I'm awake , for torment it's to lie , And such a grievous moan to make , for want of Company : I'de better never go to Bed , then there to lie and pine , And cannot lose my Maidenhead , what Rigid Fate is mine . How happy are those women kind , who do not lie alone , But comfort find , in heart and mind , and never make their moan : While I poor Soul sighs and condole , still wanting Loves delights , Upon my restless Bed I roll ; these long and tedious nights . They hourly taste of Lovers Bliss , and what their hearts desire , They e'ry moment change a kiss , which them with joys inspire : They prate of all the silent night , the sweetness of that Theam , Which I would taste of if I might , it doeh so pleasant seem . O what a fleeting joy is this , it can no pleasure be , When I my expectation miss , it's perfect Death to me ; Just like as in a Looking-Glass , your features you may see , Which from your sighed away does pass , if it removed be . O Cruel Fortune too unkind , tell me the reason why ? That I from Bliss am thus confined , and must a Maiden die : Must I not taste that happiness , which does so pleasant prove , There's nothing can poor Lovers bless , but Syllabub of Love . Must I led Apes in Hell below , no , no , it may not be , For Nature very well I know , did other ways decree : Ten thousand plagues together meet , in harmless Maidens Beds , No loss so pleasant and so sweet , as that of Maiden-Heads . The Married woman she does boast , how rarely she does live , While I Distracted run almost , no comfort I receive : Poor harmless soul I whine and pine , let me do what I can , Nothing more plagues the Soul of mine , than want of a Young-Man . And now Virginity adieu , I'll venture once to try , And steal what I account my endue , a Maid I will not die : And so farewell my Lovely Cows , for I am almost mad , But do resolve to keep my vows , if Man be to be had . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate [ . ] 