THE Painted Ladies Rambles ; OR , The Squire well fitted for his Follies . He that has Guinnies in his purse , and Courts a Wanton Dame , May meet with this , or ten times worse , therefore in time Reclaim . To the Tune of , Black and Sullen Hour . This may be printed , R.P. A Youthful Damsel fair and bright , if you will now believe the truth , She makes it still her chief delight , to exercise the tricks of youth , In wanton pleasures she does spend her days , In hope's she may her honour raise , in hope's she may her honour raise , Young gallants on her beauty gaze , young gallants on her beauty gaze . Though many Gallants her adore , yet this alas could not suff [ i ] ce , She had another friend in store , whom she did far more highly prize : Then [ de ] cking of her self in rich array , To find him out she took her way , to find , etc To London where she knew he lay , to London , etc She could not find her faithful friend , therefore she ranging up and down , A Squire m [ e ] tO her in the end , this did her joys with comfort crown , Then to a most convenient place they go , And where he might his kindness show , and where , etc , The Damsel yield [ e ] worser to his bow , the Damsel , etc She did not count it as a crime , so long as he had store of chink , In mirth they passed away the time , and in Canar [ y ] they did drink : For which he oftentimes did freely call , And then they to embraces fallen , and then , etc Quoth she thy purse shall pay for all , quoth she , etc By policy she did invent , how she the Squires purse might clear , The day was sp [ e ] nt in sweet content , at length the silent night drew near . No charges would this noble Squire spare But did a famous Room prepare , but did , etc There to enjoy this charming fair , there to enjoy , etc Now when the Squire was in bed , he sleeping like a drows [ i ] y drone , The Guinyes they run in her head , how she might make them all her own : And in the morning by the break of day , She god his Golden Guineys gay , she god , etc Likewise his Watch and went her way , likewise , etc Now when the Squire did awake , and finding of himself alone , Then what a racket he did make , with a most lamentable tone : My Watch & amp ; Guineys they are gone I find . O [ h ] this did much torment his mind . O this , etc Was he not served in his kind , was he , etc The Squire then did quit the room , and to the Drawer did repair , His Guinnies made him fret and fume , Yet yet he patiently must bear With that and more , for they to him did say . Kind Sir here is your shot to pay , kind Sir , etc Come down with it without delay . come down , etc His very heart with grief did melt , and what to do he did not know , There did he leave his Sword and Belt , and glad he was he god off so : All you that hear this ditty p [ r ] ay keep from [ e ] From such like lewd inconstancy , from such like lewd inconstancy , For fear this should your portion be , for fear this should your portion be . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . THE Painted Ladies Rambles ; OR , The Squire well fitted for his Follies . He that has Guinnies in his purse , and Courts a Wanton Dame , May meet with this , or ten times worse , therefore in time Reclaim . To the Tune of , Black and Sullen Hour . This may be printed , R.P. A Youthful Damsel fair and bright , if you will now believe the truth , She makes it still her chief delight , to exercise the tricks of youth , In wanton pleasures she does spend her days , In hope's she may her honour raise , in hope's she may her honour raise , Young gallants on her beauty gaze , young gallants on her beauty gaze . Though many Gallants her adore , yet this alas could not suff [ i ] ce , She had another friend in store , whom she did far more highly prize : Then [ de ] cking of her self in rich array , To find him out she took her way , to find , etc To London where she knew he lay , to London , etc She could not find her faithful friend , therefore she ranging up and down , A Squire m [ e ] tO her in the end , this did her joys with comfort crown , Then to a most convenient place they go , And where he might his kindness show , and where , etc , The Damsel yield [ e ] worser to his bow , the Damsel , etc She did not count it as a crime , so long as he had store of chink , In mirth they passed away the time , and in Canar [ y ] they did drink : For which he oftentimes did freely call , And then they to embraces fallen , and then , etc Quoth she thy purse shall pay for all , quoth she , etc By policy she did invent , how she the Squires purse might clear , The day was sp [ e ] nt in sweet content , at length the silent night drew near . No charges would this noble Squire spare But did a famous Room prepare , but did , etc There to enjoy this charming fair , there to enjoy , etc Now when the Squire was in bed , he sleeping like a drows [ i ] y drone , The Guinyes they run in her head , how she might make them all her own : And in the morning by the break of day , She god his Golden Guineys gay , she god , etc Likewise his Watch and went her way , likewise , etc Now when the Squire did awake , and finding of himself alone , Then what a racket he did make , with a most lamentable tone : My Watch & amp ; Guineys they are gone I find . O [ h ] this did much torment his mind . O this , etc Was he not served in his kind , was he , etc The Squire then did quit the room , and to the Drawer did repair , His Guinnies made him fret and fume , Yet yet he patiently must bear With that and more , for they to him did say . Kind Sir here is your shot to pay , kind Sir , etc Come down with it without delay . come down , etc His very heart with grief did melt , and what to do he did not know , There did he leave his Sword and Belt , and glad he was he god off so : All you that hear this ditty p [ r ] ay keep from [ e ] From such like lewd inconstancy , from such like lewd inconstancy , For fear this should your portion be , for fear this should your portion be . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 