The True-Lovers Glory . Where two Lovers kind and free , Does both express their Loyalty , And may to all a pattern be , For to delight in Constancy . To the Tune of , The Country-Fa [ rm ] er : Or , The New-Market Jig . Y Ou Lovers most Loyal , wherever you be , Give ear to my Ditty , and listen to me ; I now am undone , forsook , and forlorn , And this is the cause I so sadly do mourn : My Strephon he does prove unkind , Another Mistress he does find , Which is such a trouble to my sad mind , I almost despair any joy to find . Through woods , & amp ; through deserts , i'll gang alone To Trees that are senseless i'll make my moan ; By the murmuring streams as they do glide , I'll tell the mischance did me betide ; Bewailing the loss of my Love so dear , The fairest Swain I ever come near : And now my heart's drowned in sorrow and fear , Which from my poor eyes costs many a tear . Was ever poor Maid unhappy like me ? Undone by my fate , crossed byy Destiny ! No , no , yet my passion I now endure , Yet cannot find help , nor hope for Cure : But this in the end a comfort will be , That I was true , he false to me ; And though my downfall I plainly foresee , I hug my soft Chains , and would not be free . The Rose in my Cheek begins to wax pale , And it's all in vain my case to bewail : But though on me now Dame Fortune does frown , My love and my constancy brings me a Crown , That never will fade , nor never decay , Till I come to the Elizium Bay , Where Lovers most faithful no Tribute do pay , But sing their misfortunes for ever and aye . The Shepherd's Answer . W Hat makes my dear Cloris for to complain , Or why dost thou spend thy dear breath in vain Is Strephon unkind ? tell me wherein , Ingratitude is a most deadly since ; But as for my self , I freely protest , In thee alone I count my self blessed : Without thee I pine , am never at rest , Since love with his power hath me possessed . The name of my Cloris i'll still adore , I'll honour thy sighed , what wouldst thou have more I'll write thy dear name wherever I go , And count thee a Saint among Mortals below : Then blame not thy Love , nor count him unkind . A Lover more true thou never wilt find ; And when hand in hand we both are conjoined , The blessing's complete that Heaven designed . I'll hug and embrace thee between my arms , And cheer thy sad heart by amorous charms : Fair Venus her self was never honoured more , Than my dearest Cloris , whom I adore : Why then should my love thus sadly complain , To fill thy Love with sorrow and pain ? Death would be more welcome than thy disdain , Then dearest forbear , and sighs not in vain . Which when she did hear , she did much rejoice , And blessed the kind hour when she made her choice ; Then kisses were free , and sorrow forgotten , They loving tied fast the Gordion knot ; which when they had done , they went to't with speed And tried to get more of the breed : For these without doubt , were lovers indeed , Whose kindness there's none can ever exceed . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Algate . The True-Lovers Glory . Where two Lovers kind and free , Does both express their Loyalty , And may to all a pattern be , For to delight in Constancy . To the Tune of , The Country-Fa [ rm ] er : Or , The New-Market Jig . Y Ou Lovers most Loyal , wherever you be , Give ear to my Ditty , and listen to me ; I now am undone , forsook , and forlorn , And this is the cause I so sadly do mourn : My Strephon he does prove unkind , Another Mistress he does find , Which is such a trouble to my sad mind , I almost despair any joy to find . Through woods , & amp ; through deserts , i'll gang alone To Trees that are senseless i'll make my moan ; By the murmuring streams as they do glide , I'll tell the mischance did me betide ; Bewailing the loss of my Love so dear , The fairest Swain I ever come near : And now my heart's drowned in sorrow and fear , Which from my poor eyes costs many a tear . Was ever poor Maid unhappy like me ? Undone by my fate , crossed byy Destiny ! No , no , yet my passion I now endure , Yet cannot find help , nor hope for Cure : But this in the end a comfort will be , That I was true , he false to me ; And though my downfall I plainly foresee , I hug my soft Chains , and would not be free . The Rose in my Cheek begins to wax pale , And it's all in vain my case to bewail : But though on me now Dame Fortune does frown , My love and my constancy brings me a Crown , That never will fade , nor never decay , Till I come to the Elizium Bay , Where Lovers most faithful no Tribute do pay , But sing their misfortunes for ever and aye . The Shepherd's Answer . W Hat makes my dear Cloris for to complain , Or why dost thou spend thy dear breath in vain Is Strephon unkind ? tell me wherein , Ingratitude is a most deadly since ; But as for my self , I freely protest , In thee alone I count my self blessed : Without thee I pine , am never at rest , Since love with his power hath me possessed . The name of my Cloris i'll still adore , I'll honour thy sighed , what wouldst thou have more I'll write thy dear name wherever I go , And count thee a Saint among Mortals below : Then blame not thy Love , nor count him unkind . A Lover more true thou never wilt find ; And when hand in hand we both are conjoined , The blessing's complete that Heaven designed . I'll hug and embrace thee between my arms , And cheer thy sad heart by amorous charms : Fair Venus her self was never honoured more , Than my dearest Cloris , whom I adore : Why then should my love thus sadly complain , To fill thy Love with sorrow and pain ? Death would be more welcome than thy disdain , Then dearest forbear , and sighs not in vain . Which when she did hear , she did much rejoice , And blessed the kind hour when she made her choice ; Then kisses were free , and sorrow forgotten , They loving tied fast the Gordion knot ; which when they had done , they went to't with speed And tried to get more of the breed : For these without doubt , were lovers indeed , Whose kindness there's none can ever exceed . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Algate . 