The DAIRY-MAIDS Mirth and Pastime ON MAY-DAY . The Young-Men they , with Damsels play , and many Sonnets Sing , Their Joys Complete , with Music sweet , to welcome in the SPRING . To the Tune of , Over Hills and high Mountains . N Owe the Season of Winter does his power resign , I , and Flora does enter in her Glory and prime , To adorn the fair Bowers in her gawdy Array , With her sweet fragrant Flowers , most gallant and gay . Then the Lads and the Lasses as I well may report , In their pleasures surpasses the gay Ladys at Court ; Though indeed they are Strangers to rich Jewels and Rings , In the shades they are Rangers , where the Nightingale sings . There is Simon and Sarah , Tom the Plowman and Kate , Honest Harry and Marry , e'ry Man had his Mate : Daniel Doewell and Dolly , all together did troule , For to Dance and be Jolly , round about the May-Pole . There the Maids was for staying all the day till dark night , Where the Piper sat playing of the Plowman's Delight : Bonny Nelly , with Winny , I , and Maudlin and Meg , Gillian , Joney , and Jenny , they were all for that Jig . All the Threshers then they play , and with many men more , For the honour of May-Day , whom thousands do adore ; Then they lay by their Labour , I , and with them they bring Both their Pipe and their Tabor , for to welcome the Spring . Jenny counts it her Duty , with her amorous Swain , And the Damsels of Beauty , for to tend on the Train ; And a fountain of blisses , which their pleasures do Crown , With a thousand sweet Kisses , till they Laugh and lie down . They without disputation , are as happy as Earls , In the sweet Recreation with their amorous Girls ; In their pleasure no treasure or cost they will spare , But will meet them , and treat them , at each Wake and Fair . Give them Ribbons and Laces , while they follow their Suit , With a thousand Embraces , ah ! and Kisses to boot ; E'ry Lover is toying , but with innocent Mirth , Which declare they're enjoying all the pleasures on earth . They will carefully tussle at the Harrow and Blow , Ever eating their Morsel by the sweat of their brow ; Yet when Merry together , then their hearts for a while , Is as light as a Feather , they forget all their toil . But the Day being ended , then they trip over the Down , E'ry Lass is befriended with a dainty Green Gown ; Thus they p [ lay ] with their Sweating and in Love w [ il ] l remain , Till the next merry Meeting , to their Labour [ ? ] gain . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . This [ may be ] Printed , R. P [ . ] The DAIRY-MAIDS Mirth and Pastime ON MAY-DAY . The Young-Men they , with Damsels play , and many Sonnets Sing , Their Joys Complete , with Music sweet , to welcome in the SPRING . To the Tune of , Over Hills and high Mountains . N Owe the Season of Winter does his power resign , I , and Flora does enter in her Glory and prime , To adorn the fair Bowers in her gawdy Array , With her sweet fragrant Flowers , most gallant and gay . Then the Lads and the Lasses as I well may report , In their pleasures surpasses the gay Ladys at Court ; Though indeed they are Strangers to rich Jewels and Rings , In the shades they are Rangers , where the Nightingale sings . There is Simon and Sarah , Tom the Plowman and Kate , Honest Harry and Marry , e'ry Man had his Mate : Daniel Doewell and Dolly , all together did troule , For to Dance and be Jolly , round about the May-Pole . There the Maids was for staying all the day till dark night , Where the Piper sat playing of the Plowman's Delight : Bonny Nelly , with Winny , I , and Maudlin and Meg , Gillian , Joney , and Jenny , they were all for that Jig . All the Threshers then they play , and with many men more , For the honour of May-Day , whom thousands do adore ; Then they lay by their Labour , I , and with them they bring Both their Pipe and their Tabor , for to welcome the Spring . Jenny counts it her Duty , with her amorous Swain , And the Damsels of Beauty , for to tend on the Train ; And a fountain of blisses , which their pleasures do Crown , With a thousand sweet Kisses , till they Laugh and lie down . They without disputation , are as happy as Earls , In the sweet Recreation with their amorous Girls ; In their pleasure no treasure or cost they will spare , But will meet them , and treat them , at each Wake and Fair . Give them Ribbons and Laces , while they follow their Suit , With a thousand Embraces , ah ! and Kisses to boot ; E'ry Lover is toying , but with innocent Mirth , Which declare they're enjoying all the pleasures on earth . They will carefully tussle at the Harrow and Blow , Ever eating their Morsel by the sweat of their brow ; Yet when Merry together , then their hearts for a while , Is as light as a Feather , they forget all their toil . But the Day being ended , then they trip over the Down , E'ry Lass is befriended with a dainty Green Gown ; Thus they p [ lay ] with their Sweating and in Love w [ il ] l remain , Till the next merry Meeting , to their Labour [ ? ] gain . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . This [ may be ] Printed , R. P [ . ] 