THE True pattern of Constancy , OR , The Loyal Lovers Joys Completed . When Youngmen find their Loves unkind , they then Impatient grow ; But when their Grief does find Relief , it Expiates their Woe . To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , Farewell thou Flower of false deceit , etc This may be Printed , R. P. F Arewel thou Flower of false deceit , and I wish the height of you may fade That your Countenance may altered be , and your Honour in the Dust be laid . Never was a Man more true than I , as you your self full well do know ; Till I found you in your Cruelty , that you sought my final Overthrow . I wish the bright Sun may not shine , on thee as it has done before ; For your Countenance hath me beguiled , I can love again , but you no more . Once I could have been as constant sweetheart for to cross the Ocean Seas for thee ; As Vulcan did for Venuses sake , when he Sailed into Italy . If you were as fair as Rosamond was , with her Cherry Cheeks & amp ; dimpled Chin ; Or if you were as fair as Hellena was , I should never more delight therein . But now my heart it is my own , why should I for another's care ? For to sighs and sob , lament and moan , for to bring my self into Despair . I will enjoy my Liberty , and in the world I mean to range ; For I will no more your Captive be , you I for another mean to change . You treated me with such despite , while I your person did adore ; That I valve not your Beauty bright , then adieu , adieu for evermore . The Maidens Answer to the Young-Man . S Such resolutions do not name , pray let me speak a word or two ; Do not thus against thy Love exclaim , when thou knowest I cannot part with you . Why dost thou charge me with Deceit ? such was my Love and Loyalty ; That I never could your Person meet , but you proved as a Life to me . Here do I offer hand and heart , with all that I can call my own ; Then do not from thy true Love part , but take some pity of my moan . For my heart to thee is linked fast , I cannot waver with the Wind ; But as long as ever Life shall last , surely I shall never change my mind . This Loving Couple's Happy Agreement . Can I believe this is my Dear , who once did slight me with disdain ? If it be then will my joys appear , seeing she is thus returned again . Now nothing can my peace annoy , as long as ever Life does last ; In my Dear I place my chiefest joy , utterly forgetting all that's past . I will embrace thee in my Arms , with many a soft and tender Kiss ; With many thousand pleasant Charms , in a full perfection of our Bliss . Though once I did Reflect on thee , 'twas while my heart was filled with grief , And I never did expect to see that thou ever wouldst afford Relief . But since the frowns of Fate are fled , and I have found thy Constancy , Now my heart is free from fear and dread , I will love my Jewel till I die . Then he took his true Love by the hand , calling her his true and Turtle-Dove ; We'll no longer now disputing stand , but resolve to Live and Die in Love . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . THE True pattern of Constancy , OR , The Loyal Lovers Joys Completed . When Youngmen find their Loves unkind , they then Impatient grow ; But when their Grief does find Relief , it Expiates their Woe . To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , Farewell thou Flower of false deceit , etc This may be Printed , R. P. F Arewel thou Flower of false deceit , and I wish the height of you may fade That your Countenance may altered be , and your Honour in the Dust be laid . Never was a Man more true than I , as you your self full well do know ; Till I found you in your Cruelty , that you sought my final Overthrow . I wish the bright Sun may not shine , on thee as it has done before ; For your Countenance hath me beguiled , I can love again , but you no more . Once I could have been as constant sweetheart for to cross the Ocean Seas for thee ; As Vulcan did for Venuses sake , when he Sailed into Italy . If you were as fair as Rosamond was , with her Cherry Cheeks & amp ; dimpled Chin ; Or if you were as fair as Hellena was , I should never more delight therein . But now my heart it is my own , why should I for another's care ? For to sighs and sob , lament and moan , for to bring my self into Despair . I will enjoy my Liberty , and in the world I mean to range ; For I will no more your Captive be , you I for another mean to change . You treated me with such despite , while I your person did adore ; That I valve not your Beauty bright , then adieu , adieu for evermore . The Maidens Answer to the Young-Man . S Such resolutions do not name , pray let me speak a word or two ; Do not thus against thy Love exclaim , when thou knowest I cannot part with you . Why dost thou charge me with Deceit ? such was my Love and Loyalty ; That I never could your Person meet , but you proved as a Life to me . Here do I offer hand and heart , with all that I can call my own ; Then do not from thy true Love part , but take some pity of my moan . For my heart to thee is linked fast , I cannot waver with the Wind ; But as long as ever Life shall last , surely I shall never change my mind . This Loving Couple's Happy Agreement . Can I believe this is my Dear , who once did slight me with disdain ? If it be then will my joys appear , seeing she is thus returned again . Now nothing can my peace annoy , as long as ever Life does last ; In my Dear I place my chiefest joy , utterly forgetting all that's past . I will embrace thee in my Arms , with many a soft and tender Kiss ; With many thousand pleasant Charms , in a full perfection of our Bliss . Though once I did Reflect on thee , 'twas while my heart was filled with grief , And I never did expect to see that thou ever wouldst afford Relief . But since the frowns of Fate are fled , and I have found thy Constancy , Now my heart is free from fear and dread , I will love my Jewel till I die . Then he took his true Love by the hand , calling her his true and Turtle-Dove ; We'll no longer now disputing stand , but resolve to Live and Die in Love . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 