LOVES Unlimited Power : Or , Cupids Cruelty , See here the force of Cupid is Power , which Mortal no way can deny ; Then happy he , who can be free from his Usurping Cruelty . To the Tune of , St [ a ] tO [ e ] and A [ m ] biti [ oh ] n . This may be Printed June 6 , 1685 . R. L. S. TO He passion of Love are too great and too cruel , my flames they do scorch , and I cannot endure ; Since every night I do dream of my Jewel , we cannot find hope of and and absolute Cure ; Her Beauty is wounding , her Eyes are so charming , she conquers all Souls that her sweetly behold , Then let my strong passion to all be a warning , Since I do esteem her far better than Gold . But what will become of me if she does slight me ? my life I shall hate , to my Grave I shall pine ; For she is the Soul that does only delight me , she seems like and Angel , and almost Divine : With the glance of her eye full soon she can cure me , so sweet and so pleasant she is to behold , How happy were I if she would but assure me , She prized my passion far better than Gold . But Oh now I tremble to think of unkindness , my Bowels do run , and my heart it does bleed ; And Love in excess it must needs be a kindness , that conquers the Prince , and the Peasant indeed : But it's a sweet pain , there's none that can heal it , till she with soft kisses her love does unfold , My passion is great , and I dare not reveal it , Yet say that I prize her far better than Gold . If she felt but the pain that I long have endured , O , how would she languish in flames of desire ! And in vain , all in vain , might desire to be Cured , but who can extinguish loves violent fire ? No , no , I must suffer the pains of a Martyr , except in my arms I my Love can enfold ; I vow and protest I will never desert thee , Whom I do esteem so much better than Gold . But now I am weary and sick of my passion , yet still hug the Charms that entangle me soar : And if I had had either Wit or Discretion , I might have perceived my folly before : But it's too late , and I must be contented , my heart to my dearest if perfectly sold ; And she for whose love I so long have lamented , I prize her far better than Silver or Gold . The Maidens kind Answer . W Ell , art thou so constant , I will be as Loyal , and love thee while I do enjoy my dear breath ; Then be not cast down , I will never make denial , and nothing shall part thee and me but pale death : I'll hug thee and kiss thee , and with thee will dally , the pleasures of Love thou shalt freely possess , For thou art the Man that I chiefly do valve , as I am thy joy , thou art my happiness . But it grieves me to think thou dost reckon me cruel my heart is possessed with and amorous Flame , And to my hight Flames dearest add not a fuel , if thou wilt be faithful , I will be the same : No Riches nor Honour shall ever persuade me , my Love to forsake , nor no leave in distress , Strong passion of Love do aleady invade me , and thou art the Fountain of my happiness . Then cease to complain , for it grieves me to hear it , to think of your sighs adds but sorrow to pain , I will be thy true Love , thou needest not to fear it , thy Love and thy suit I will never disdain : Be kind , thou shalt find I will not be ungrateful , my heart does design what my tongue does express , And if unto me thou dost once prove deceitful , I must bid adieu then to my happiness . But the Fates I do hope both our good have designed in Wedlock I hope we soon joined shall be , My heart it is thine , and I now do resign it , thy true and thy Loyal Consort I will be : I never will waver while I have a being , then doubt not the words that I now do express , Though nothing be like to believing and seeing , Know that in true love lies my happiness . Entered according to Order . Painted for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . LOVES Unlimited Power : Or , Cupids Cruelty , See here the force of Cupid is Power , which Mortal no way can deny ; Then happy he , who can be free from his Usurping Cruelty . To the Tune of , St [ a ] tO [ e ] and A [ m ] biti [ oh ] n . This may be Printed June 6 , 1685 . R. L. S. TO He passion of Love are too great and too cruel , my flames they do scorch , and I cannot endure ; Since every night I do dream of my Jewel , we cannot find hope of and and absolute Cure ; Her Beauty is wounding , her Eyes are so charming , she conquers all Souls that her sweetly behold , Then let my strong passion to all be a warning , Since I do esteem her far better than Gold . But what will become of me if she does slight me ? my life I shall hate , to my Grave I shall pine ; For she is the Soul that does only delight me , she seems like and Angel , and almost Divine : With the glance of her eye full soon she can cure me , so sweet and so pleasant she is to behold , How happy were I if she would but assure me , She prized my passion far better than Gold . But Oh now I tremble to think of unkindness , my Bowels do run , and my heart it does bleed ; And Love in excess it must needs be a kindness , that conquers the Prince , and the Peasant indeed : But it's a sweet pain , there's none that can heal it , till she with soft kisses her love does unfold , My passion is great , and I dare not reveal it , Yet say that I prize her far better than Gold . If she felt but the pain that I long have endured , O , how would she languish in flames of desire ! And in vain , all in vain , might desire to be Cured , but who can extinguish loves violent fire ? No , no , I must suffer the pains of a Martyr , except in my arms I my Love can enfold ; I vow and protest I will never desert thee , Whom I do esteem so much better than Gold . But now I am weary and sick of my passion , yet still hug the Charms that entangle me soar : And if I had had either Wit or Discretion , I might have perceived my folly before : But it's too late , and I must be contented , my heart to my dearest if perfectly sold ; And she for whose love I so long have lamented , I prize her far better than Silver or Gold . The Maidens kind Answer . W Ell , art thou so constant , I will be as Loyal , and love thee while I do enjoy my dear breath ; Then be not cast down , I will never make denial , and nothing shall part thee and me but pale death : I'll hug thee and kiss thee , and with thee will dally , the pleasures of Love thou shalt freely possess , For thou art the Man that I chiefly do valve , as I am thy joy , thou art my happiness . But it grieves me to think thou dost reckon me cruel my heart is possessed with and amorous Flame , And to my hight Flames dearest add not a fuel , if thou wilt be faithful , I will be the same : No Riches nor Honour shall ever persuade me , my Love to forsake , nor no leave in distress , Strong passion of Love do aleady invade me , and thou art the Fountain of my happiness . Then cease to complain , for it grieves me to hear it , to think of your sighs adds but sorrow to pain , I will be thy true Love , thou needest not to fear it , thy Love and thy suit I will never disdain : Be kind , thou shalt find I will not be ungrateful , my heart does design what my tongue does express , And if unto me thou dost once prove deceitful , I must bid adieu then to my happiness . But the Fates I do hope both our good have designed in Wedlock I hope we soon joined shall be , My heart it is thine , and I now do resign it , thy true and thy Loyal Consort I will be : I never will waver while I have a being , then doubt not the words that I now do express , Though nothing be like to believing and seeing , Know that in true love lies my happiness . Entered according to Order . Painted for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . 