Roger the Millers present Sent by the Farmers Daughter to his Cousin Tom the Taylor in London . The Miller he was brisk and stout , and did the Maid beguile The Taylor still against his will , is forced to keep the Child . Tune of , Billy and M olly : Or. A Job for a Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be Printed , R. P. A Damsel came to London Town , just in the midst of Harvest , And she was in a Russet Gown , went seeking for a Service , Though she of money was but bore , in this I must commend her , For being beautiful and fair , kind fortune did befriend her . I pray you listen now to me , in this that follows after , I'll tell her worthy Pedigree , she was a Farmers daughter : She often went with Grist to Mill , where Roger used to tease her , When he had gained her kind good will , then sorrow soon did seize her . When he had god her Maidenhead , poor heart she straightway dreaded , That he with her would never wed , because she had cracked her credit , Since he alas did her betray , she ruined was and undone , From all her friends she stole away , and traveled up to London . As through the City she did pass , a Taylor chanced to meet her , She seemed like a proper Lass , therefore he did entreat her , To tell him if she lacked a place , for he could soon advance her , She seemed with a modest Grace , returning him this answer . The want of that is all my care , I have this very hour , No pains nor labour will I spare , but to my utmost power , My mind is bent to give content ; where ever I shall be hired , Well hast thou said , fair virtuous Maid , by me thou art admired . Said he I will do what I can , for thee , and it's but reason , For why I am a single Man , and now this very season , I have occasion for a Maid , sweet Damosel then come hither , With all my heart kind Sir she said , then home they went together . He doted on her beauty bright , and often would be billing , Still calling her his hearts delight , and said was she but willing , He'd make her now his lawful wife , it was his will and pleasure , He promised her a happy Life , with riches out of measure . She thought upon her former crime , therefore she yields to marry , As knowing it to be high time , no longer would she tarry , And thus a hasty match they make , they did not stand long arguing , The Taylor if I don't mistake , he had a thumping bargain . When Seven Weeks was gone and passed , according to Relation , His Wife was brought to bed at last , a sudden alteration , He in a sweat did chafe and fret , so sorrow him surrounded , To see his charge so soon enlarged , his heart with grief was wounded . The Taylor and the Miller too , to end this disputation , They both are of the filshing crew , none nearer in relation , Therefore it seems the case is thus he did not much bewail her , Because the Child was now at Nurse , with Tom his Cousin Taylor . The Taylor he was All [ l ] - a-mode , and of a genteel carriage , He reapeth what the Miller sowed , when being joined in Marriage , For why he meeting her full pa [ tO ] tO , her case alas he pitied And now must keep the Millers brat , pray is he not well fitted . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . Roger the Millers present Sent by the Farmers Daughter to his Cousin Tom the Taylor in London . The Miller he was brisk and stout , and did the Maid beguile The Taylor still against his will , is forced to keep the Child . Tune of , Billy and M olly : Or. A Job for a Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be Printed , R. P. A Damsel came to London Town , just in the midst of Harvest , And she was in a Russet Gown , went seeking for a Service , Though she of money was but bore , in this I must commend her , For being beautiful and fair , kind fortune did befriend her . I pray you listen now to me , in this that follows after , I'll tell her worthy Pedigree , she was a Farmers daughter : She often went with Grist to Mill , where Roger used to tease her , When he had gained her kind good will , then sorrow soon did seize her . When he had god her Maidenhead , poor heart she straightway dreaded , That he with her would never wed , because she had cracked her credit , Since he alas did her betray , she ruined was and undone , From all her friends she stole away , and traveled up to London . As through the City she did pass , a Taylor chanced to meet her , She seemed like a proper Lass , therefore he did entreat her , To tell him if she lacked a place , for he could soon advance her , She seemed with a modest Grace , returning him this answer . The want of that is all my care , I have this very hour , No pains nor labour will I spare , but to my utmost power , My mind is bent to give content ; where ever I shall be hired , Well hast thou said , fair virtuous Maid , by me thou art admired . Said he I will do what I can , for thee , and it's but reason , For why I am a single Man , and now this very season , I have occasion for a Maid , sweet Damosel then come hither , With all my heart kind Sir she said , then home they went together . He doted on her beauty bright , and often would be billing , Still calling her his hearts delight , and said was she but willing , He'd make her now his lawful wife , it was his will and pleasure , He promised her a happy Life , with riches out of measure . She thought upon her former crime , therefore she yields to marry , As knowing it to be high time , no longer would she tarry , And thus a hasty match they make , they did not stand long arguing , The Taylor if I don't mistake , he had a thumping bargain . When Seven Weeks was gone and passed , according to Relation , His Wife was brought to bed at last , a sudden alteration , He in a sweat did chafe and fret , so sorrow him surrounded , To see his charge so soon enlarged , his heart with grief was wounded . The Taylor and the Miller too , to end this disputation , They both are of the filshing crew , none nearer in relation , Therefore it seems the case is thus he did not much bewail her , Because the Child was now at Nurse , with Tom his Cousin Taylor . The Taylor he was All [ l ] - a-mode , and of a genteel carriage , He reapeth what the Miller sowed , when being joined in Marriage , For why he meeting her full pa [ tO ] tO , her case alas he pitied And now must keep the Millers brat , pray is he not well fitted . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 