Innocent Shepherd and the Crafty Wife Or , A Dialogue between a Shepherd and his Love . Brothers , see here what some [ are ] e Born unto , If it's your Birth right , what should Women do ? Kind things they think , they do all for the best , But so or not , we must Contented rest . To the Tune of , The Country-Farmer ; Or , The Buxom Virgin . A Silly poor Shepherd was folding his Sheep , He walked so long he god Cold in his Feet ; He laid on his Coals now by two and by three , But the more he laid on the Cuc-colder was he . Husband . ] Alas ! my good Wife , what shall we do now To buy us more Fuel we'll fell the Brown Cow , To buy us more Coals for to warm thee and me , But the more he laid on the Cuc-colder was he . Wife . Some Shepherd's , said she , themselves warm can keep , By feeding their Flocks , and by folding their Sheep ; But when thou comest home with thy Tar-box and Hook Oh it grieves me to see how Cuc-cold thou dost look . Hasb . ] Alas ! good wife , I walk through Due & amp ; Mire , While thou perhaps , warmest thy self at a Fire ; With a Friend in a corner in some sort , whereby The Warmer thou art the Cuc-colder am I . Wife . O fie ! my dear Husband , you sure are in jest , You see how I Labour to get you the best ; I Carded and I Spin , both above and below . To Cloth you till you no Cuc-Colder can grow . H. ] You told me you plucked wool from hedge , bush , & amp ; tree To make a warm Coat and a Night Cap for me ; But you Reel at a rate , with a Spindle so free , That I fear when they're done the Cuc-Colder to be . O Husband ! consider you should be content , And not at you Fortune Repine or Repent ; Since I go abroad with a Neighbour or two , Though the more I perform the Cucare you . Husb. ] Well , my sweet Wife , though my fortune is bad , More Fuel to warm me must quickly be had ; Or else while with neighbours abroad you do gad , I still shall come home more Cuc-Colder and sad . Wife . Consider some way then , and fell not our Cow , For she gives us Milk to support us , you know ; And makes you a Posset , and other good Cheer , To comfort your heart when Cuc-Cold you appear . Husb. ] If Colly be kept , then I must fell my Sheep , For we a good Fire and warm Victuals must keep ; Since , intruth , many times I am ready to weep , To think how Cuc-Cold in my Bed I do sleep . Wife . I'll get you more Blankets that grief to Redress , Then prithee dear Husband , your Sorrow suppress , I'll hug you , and kiss you , and ease you of care , Till you shall forget how Cuc-Cold you now are Husb. ] Alas ! my dear Wife , I fear all will not do , The pain in my Forehead such Bumbs makes to grow , That the more I do strive , the sad grief to forego , I still the Cuc-Colder to all Men do show . Wife . I'll get you a Plaster shall make they to shrink , And when I apply it you always must wink ; A Doctor I know that will do you the Grace , That you your Cuc-Coldness shall ever outface . Husb. ] And though that be done , what is it to me , Or had I a Night-Cap that none might they see ; Yet I am the same still in every Degree , I still as Cuc-Cold as I ever shall be . Wife . Come , come be contented , as many more are , Who catch the same Cold , yet their Fuel do spare ; He's a Fool that repines at what can't be redressed , Be glad you no more are Cuc-Cold then the rest . Husb. ] O Wife , how I scratch at the Story you tell , For though you in Cunning do many excel ; Yet troth it's too hard , though we gain by it well , For ever , for ever , Cuc-coldly to Dwell . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationer A [ rms ] within Aldga [ te ] Innocent Shepherd and the Crafty Wife Or , A Dialogue between a Shepherd and his Love . Brothers , see here what some [ are ] e Born unto , If it's your Birth right , what should Women do ? Kind things they think , they do all for the best , But so or not , we must Contented rest . To the Tune of , The Country-Farmer ; Or , The Buxom Virgin . A Silly poor Shepherd was folding his Sheep , He walked so long he god Cold in his Feet ; He laid on his Coals now by two and by three , But the more he laid on the Cuc-colder was he . Husband . ] Alas ! my good Wife , what shall we do now To buy us more Fuel we'll fell the Brown Cow , To buy us more Coals for to warm thee and me , But the more he laid on the Cuc-colder was he . Wife . Some Shepherd's , said she , themselves warm can keep , By feeding their Flocks , and by folding their Sheep ; But when thou comest home with thy Tar-box and Hook Oh it grieves me to see how Cuc-cold thou dost look . Hasb . ] Alas ! good wife , I walk through Due & amp ; Mire , While thou perhaps , warmest thy self at a Fire ; With a Friend in a corner in some sort , whereby The Warmer thou art the Cuc-colder am I . Wife . O fie ! my dear Husband , you sure are in jest , You see how I Labour to get you the best ; I Carded and I Spin , both above and below . To Cloth you till you no Cuc-Colder can grow . H. ] You told me you plucked wool from hedge , bush , & amp ; tree To make a warm Coat and a Night Cap for me ; But you Reel at a rate , with a Spindle so free , That I fear when they're done the Cuc-Colder to be . O Husband ! consider you should be content , And not at you Fortune Repine or Repent ; Since I go abroad with a Neighbour or two , Though the more I perform the Cucare you . Husb. ] Well , my sweet Wife , though my fortune is bad , More Fuel to warm me must quickly be had ; Or else while with neighbours abroad you do gad , I still shall come home more Cuc-Colder and sad . Wife . Consider some way then , and fell not our Cow , For she gives us Milk to support us , you know ; And makes you a Posset , and other good Cheer , To comfort your heart when Cuc-Cold you appear . Husb. ] If Colly be kept , then I must fell my Sheep , For we a good Fire and warm Victuals must keep ; Since , intruth , many times I am ready to weep , To think how Cuc-Cold in my Bed I do sleep . Wife . I'll get you more Blankets that grief to Redress , Then prithee dear Husband , your Sorrow suppress , I'll hug you , and kiss you , and ease you of care , Till you shall forget how Cuc-Cold you now are Husb. ] Alas ! my dear Wife , I fear all will not do , The pain in my Forehead such Bumbs makes to grow , That the more I do strive , the sad grief to forego , I still the Cuc-Colder to all Men do show . Wife . I'll get you a Plaster shall make they to shrink , And when I apply it you always must wink ; A Doctor I know that will do you the Grace , That you your Cuc-Coldness shall ever outface . Husb. ] And though that be done , what is it to me , Or had I a Night-Cap that none might they see ; Yet I am the same still in every Degree , I still as Cuc-Cold as I ever shall be . Wife . Come , come be contented , as many more are , Who catch the same Cold , yet their Fuel do spare ; He's a Fool that repines at what can't be redressed , Be glad you no more are Cuc-Cold then the rest . Husb. ] O Wife , how I scratch at the Story you tell , For though you in Cunning do many excel ; Yet troth it's too hard , though we gain by it well , For ever , for ever , Cuc-coldly to Dwell . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationer A [ rms ] within Aldga [ te ] 