Loves glorious Conquest . OR , The Harmony of true Content . Wherein is shown the unexpressible Joy and Delight of two faithful Lovers , who having passed many storms of troubles and misfortunes , at last arrived to the Haven of their desired felicity , ( the fruition of each others love ) to their unspeakable content . Oft did Phillis sighs and languish , And her Soul oppressed with anguish , She could discover no relief ; As she her thoughts was thus beguiling Came her gentle Lover smiling , And eased her of all her grief . The residue of their time is spent In pleasant Joy and sweet Content Tune of , My Lov [ er ] is on the brackish Sea . A Dieu to grief and discontent , and to these blubbered eyes , Before my youthful days were spent , my torment did arise . I sighs and languish in mine anguish , my hope's are all cast down ; My faithful Love does it remove , and now the Day's mine own . My heart is overwhelmed with care , alas , what can I do ? While I lament unto the air , my sorrows do renew : With woe my breast is still oppressed , and joys are tumbled down ; But now I find my love so kind , the Day it is mine own . No trouble shall ever possess or break my heart with care , But I will live in happiness , as other Lovers are ; Since at the last I have overpast my troubles which are flown , I'll live in joy eternally , for now the Day's mine own . I can't express my daily grief which does oppress my mind ; But when my love came with relief , great comfort I did find ; No sighs nor sobs nor bitter throbs shall throw my courage down , Since my truelove does faithful prove for now the Day's mine own . My heart's on fire with desire my Lover to enjoy , Since to his favour I aspire , adieu to all annoy : I will embrace , in comely grace my love shall then be shown , Most tenderly I will lie by , for now the Day's mine own . The men Answer . M Y hearts delight , both day and night to thee I'll constant prove , For I have traveled far and nigh , to find my faithful Love ; I many a weary step have trod , and wandered up and down ; Kind Heavens gave what I did crave , and now the Day's our own . In Storms and Dangers by the Sea , great perils by the Land , And all was for the sake of thee , I was at thy command ; My heart did almost melt away when once I saw thee frown , My own dear love does constant prove , and now the Day's our own . My Love and I did live in woe , for absence of each other , We sighed and knew not what to do , for anguish did us smother ; But we at last have overpast , the fates that so did frown ; And now we taste what ever shall last , for now the Day's our own . Then to the Church these Lovers went United for to be ; They lived in mirth and merriment , in pomp and gallantry ; His whole delight was in her sighed ; she loved him alone ; And with a kiss began their bliss , for now the Day's their own . the Lovers all a pattern take by these united hearts , All quarreling and fraud forsake , and take each others parts : Then as I live all things will thrive that you can do or say ; With a sweet kiss hide what's amiss , Then you will win the Day . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . Loves glorious Conquest . OR , The Harmony of true Content . Wherein is shown the unexpressible Joy and Delight of two faithful Lovers , who having passed many storms of troubles and misfortunes , at last arrived to the Haven of their desired felicity , ( the fruition of each others love ) to their unspeakable content . Oft did Phillis sighs and languish , And her Soul oppressed with anguish , She could discover no relief ; As she her thoughts was thus beguiling Came her gentle Lover smiling , And eased her of all her grief . The residue of their time is spent In pleasant Joy and sweet Content Tune of , My Lov [ er ] is on the brackish Sea . A Dieu to grief and discontent , and to these blubbered eyes , Before my youthful days were spent , my torment did arise . I sighs and languish in mine anguish , my hope's are all cast down ; My faithful Love does it remove , and now the Day's mine own . My heart is overwhelmed with care , alas , what can I do ? While I lament unto the air , my sorrows do renew : With woe my breast is still oppressed , and joys are tumbled down ; But now I find my love so kind , the Day it is mine own . No trouble shall ever possess or break my heart with care , But I will live in happiness , as other Lovers are ; Since at the last I have overpast my troubles which are flown , I'll live in joy eternally , for now the Day's mine own . I can't express my daily grief which does oppress my mind ; But when my love came with relief , great comfort I did find ; No sighs nor sobs nor bitter throbs shall throw my courage down , Since my truelove does faithful prove for now the Day's mine own . My heart's on fire with desire my Lover to enjoy , Since to his favour I aspire , adieu to all annoy : I will embrace , in comely grace my love shall then be shown , Most tenderly I will lie by , for now the Day's mine own . The men Answer . M Y hearts delight , both day and night to thee I'll constant prove , For I have traveled far and nigh , to find my faithful Love ; I many a weary step have trod , and wandered up and down ; Kind Heavens gave what I did crave , and now the Day's our own . In Storms and Dangers by the Sea , great perils by the Land , And all was for the sake of thee , I was at thy command ; My heart did almost melt away when once I saw thee frown , My own dear love does constant prove , and now the Day's our own . My Love and I did live in woe , for absence of each other , We sighed and knew not what to do , for anguish did us smother ; But we at last have overpast , the fates that so did frown ; And now we taste what ever shall last , for now the Day's our own . Then to the Church these Lovers went United for to be ; They lived in mirth and merriment , in pomp and gallantry ; His whole delight was in her sighed ; she loved him alone ; And with a kiss began their bliss , for now the Day's their own . the Lovers all a pattern take by these united hearts , All quarreling and fraud forsake , and take each others parts : Then as I live all things will thrive that you can do or say ; With a sweet kiss hide what's amiss , Then you will win the Day . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 