[ THE ] New-blossomed Marigold ; OR , The Maids Consent to the Young-Mans Request , Within Serrellas Breast Love Lurkin lies , Paying Devotion to Laretta's eyes : Who scorned him for a time , but then the Lass , Her M arigold was opened on the Grass . To the Tune of Jenny Ginn , Or , as I walked forth to take the air . A S I walked forth to take the Air , upon a Summer's day , Serrella and his Nymph so fair , was in the Field so gay : He Courted her upon the grass , her charming looks was such , The Mary-Gold he might not unclose , nor yet the Rose to touch . But now the Little Blinded God , had pierct his tender heart , And blowed the Coals of fiery Love , to ease him of his smart : Though Coy at first she seemed to be , and with him she did chide , Yet he did pluck the marigold , and sweetest Rose beside . For now Serrella boulder grew , impatient of delay , And swore by all the powers of Love , he could no longer stay : Nor would he break the gordion knot , which he so firmly tied But he must pluck the M arygold , I and the Rose beside . The Nymph whose tender heart did yield to her Serrellas Charms With smiling looks she came to him , and clasped him in her arms : Quoth she thou hast me overcome , and I do yield to thee , The marigold and sweetest Rose , and to them thou shalt be free . And now our joys do still increase , in Love we will agree , Our sweet embraces still abound , and equal harmony : The pleasant Groves do sweetly crown , our blisses night and day , A and now the marigold his own , I and the Rose so gay . The Fort that never before was wone , to thee I now resign . My self and all I have quoth she , for ever shall be thine : These sweet enticing charms of love , do make me yield to thee , The marigold and sweetest Rose , and to them thou shalt be free . Laretta now the wound would cure , which she before had made , And her Serrellas scorching flames , was now by her allayed , Into Celestial joys they were , both brought without delay , In opening of the marigold , I and the Rose so gay . And now under the shady trees , we'll sweetly fit and sing , While birds with their delightful notes do make the Woods to ring : And Celebrate the happiness , of our most sweet repose , In opening of the marigold , I and the sweetest Rose , Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Armes within Aldgate . 1685. [ THE ] New-blossomed Marigold ; OR , The Maids Consent to the Young-Mans Request , Within Serrellas Breast Love Lurkin lies , Paying Devotion to Laretta's eyes : Who scorned him for a time , but then the Lass , Her M arigold was opened on the Grass . To the Tune of Jenny Ginn , Or , as I walked forth to take the air . A S I walked forth to take the Air , upon a Summer's day , Serrella and his Nymph so fair , was in the Field so gay : He Courted her upon the grass , her charming looks was such , The Mary-Gold he might not unclose , nor yet the Rose to touch . But now the Little Blinded God , had pierct his tender heart , And blowed the Coals of fiery Love , to ease him of his smart : Though Coy at first she seemed to be , and with him she did chide , Yet he did pluck the marigold , and sweetest Rose beside . For now Serrella boulder grew , impatient of delay , And swore by all the powers of Love , he could no longer stay : Nor would he break the gordion knot , which he so firmly tied But he must pluck the M arygold , I and the Rose beside . The Nymph whose tender heart did yield to her Serrellas Charms With smiling looks she came to him , and clasped him in her arms : Quoth she thou hast me overcome , and I do yield to thee , The marigold and sweetest Rose , and to them thou shalt be free . And now our joys do still increase , in Love we will agree , Our sweet embraces still abound , and equal harmony : The pleasant Groves do sweetly crown , our blisses night and day , A and now the marigold his own , I and the Rose so gay . The Fort that never before was wone , to thee I now resign . My self and all I have quoth she , for ever shall be thine : These sweet enticing charms of love , do make me yield to thee , The marigold and sweetest Rose , and to them thou shalt be free . Laretta now the wound would cure , which she before had made , And her Serrellas scorching flames , was now by her allayed , Into Celestial joys they were , both brought without delay , In opening of the marigold , I and the Rose so gay . And now under the shady trees , we'll sweetly fit and sing , While birds with their delightful notes do make the Woods to ring : And Celebrate the happiness , of our most sweet repose , In opening of the marigold , I and the sweetest Rose , Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Armes within Aldgate . 1685. 