The true Lovers Conquest OR , The scornful maiden overcome by true Love and Loyalty . The youngman took his whole delight In his sweethearts comely sighed , And loved beyond all measure ; But she most proudly did disdain For to ease him of his pain , Or grant him any pleasure . He does at last her fancy move , And like two Turtles they do love . Tune of , Hark! the thundering Cannons roar . F Air Nymph ! those sparkling eyes of thine , Which like two glorious Lamps do shine , And thy Beauty so divine hath set my heart on fire ; Nothing more entertained by me , Than the pleasant thoughts of thee , Oh Crown me with felicity , and grant me my desire . One fairer never yet hath been , Of Nymphs thou art the very Queen , For the Beauty which is seen in each comely feature : Love himself's on fire set , Viewing thy Beauty so complete , Where Roses with bright Lilies meet , incomparable Creature ! Maid . Men now a days are so unjust , A Maiden knows not who to trust ; Then gentle Youth forbear you must to fix your thoughts on me sir ; If Love himself is in love with me , My thoughts so mean shall never be , To cast away my self on thee , you are no Meat for me Sir . Man. Although thy Lovers were Divine , Never Love can equal mine , Who for ever will be thine , then fair one don't deny me : It's thou that art my chief delight , On thee I think both day and night , I'll honour thee with all my might , then dearest do but try me . If ever I prove false to thee , Then deal with me accordingly , And let me never happy be , if with thee I dissemble : Fairest doe not me mistake , To think I will my Love forsake , The very thoughts of it does make my bleeding heart to tremble . Maid . Though now you do pretend to love , Each trifle will the same remove . Man. No by the gods I'll constant prove , and never will forsake thee , Maid . Forbear , it is not all your skill That shall entrap me to your will . Man. Fair one , I will love thee still , Maid . Fair words shall never took me . Man. I use no falsehood nor deceit , Nor with fair speeches make a bait , For any other guile or feat , but my true love unto thee ; My love is constant , just , and true , I can fancy none but you , If you deny , death will ensue , and presently undo me . Maid . Methinks my heart begins to yield , I can my self no longer shield , Oh youth , thou now hast wone the field , come then and use thy pleasure : I can no longer thee withstand , But wholly am at thy command , Here's my heart , and here's my hand , thou art my only treasure . Man. Oh now my Joy , I can't express Nor equal the true happiness Wherewith thou dost thy Lover bless , then seal it with a kiss too : In love we will each other meet , Enjoying with embraces sweet , And all the gods they shall us meet , and envy our bliss too . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The true Lovers Conquest OR , The scornful maiden overcome by true Love and Loyalty . The youngman took his whole delight In his sweethearts comely sighed , And loved beyond all measure ; But she most proudly did disdain For to ease him of his pain , Or grant him any pleasure . He does at last her fancy move , And like two Turtles they do love . Tune of , Hark! the thundering Cannons roar . F Air Nymph ! those sparkling eyes of thine , Which like two glorious Lamps do shine , And thy Beauty so divine hath set my heart on fire ; Nothing more entertained by me , Than the pleasant thoughts of thee , Oh Crown me with felicity , and grant me my desire . One fairer never yet hath been , Of Nymphs thou art the very Queen , For the Beauty which is seen in each comely feature : Love himself's on fire set , Viewing thy Beauty so complete , Where Roses with bright Lilies meet , incomparable Creature ! Maid . Men now a days are so unjust , A Maiden knows not who to trust ; Then gentle Youth forbear you must to fix your thoughts on me sir ; If Love himself is in love with me , My thoughts so mean shall never be , To cast away my self on thee , you are no Meat for me Sir . Man. Although thy Lovers were Divine , Never Love can equal mine , Who for ever will be thine , then fair one don't deny me : It's thou that art my chief delight , On thee I think both day and night , I'll honour thee with all my might , then dearest do but try me . If ever I prove false to thee , Then deal with me accordingly , And let me never happy be , if with thee I dissemble : Fairest doe not me mistake , To think I will my Love forsake , The very thoughts of it does make my bleeding heart to tremble . Maid . Though now you do pretend to love , Each trifle will the same remove . Man. No by the gods I'll constant prove , and never will forsake thee , Maid . Forbear , it is not all your skill That shall entrap me to your will . Man. Fair one , I will love thee still , Maid . Fair words shall never took me . Man. I use no falsehood nor deceit , Nor with fair speeches make a bait , For any other guile or feat , but my true love unto thee ; My love is constant , just , and true , I can fancy none but you , If you deny , death will ensue , and presently undo me . Maid . Methinks my heart begins to yield , I can my self no longer shield , Oh youth , thou now hast wone the field , come then and use thy pleasure : I can no longer thee withstand , But wholly am at thy command , Here's my heart , and here's my hand , thou art my only treasure . Man. Oh now my Joy , I can't express Nor equal the true happiness Wherewith thou dost thy Lover bless , then seal it with a kiss too : In love we will each other meet , Enjoying with embraces sweet , And all the gods they shall us meet , and envy our bliss too . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 