The Young men Joy , and the Maids Happiness . OR , A pretty WORSER ialogue , between two amorous Lovers . The Youngman Wooed the Damosel fair , and soon obtained her faivour , So they became a loving pair , it fit that he ' should have her . For now they sweetly do agree , their minds in nothing vary , But Thomas vows he'll constant be , unto his pretty Marry . To the Tune of , My F ather gave me House and Land . A S lately I to take the fresh Air , within the fields was walking , There did I espy a Damosel fair , that with a brave Lad was talking . She was indeed a lovely Lass , I never saw a sweeter ; And he a gallant young Man was , who with these kind words did greet her . Man. Come hither to me my Amorous Girl , for dearly I do love thee , Thy person is far more precious than Pearl and I prize no one above thee . O [ h ] therefore be not coy my dear , thou hast no cause to fly me , I'll do thee no harm , thou needest not fear then prithee Love fit down by me . And if my suit thou wilt but own , my mind I will discover , And it shall plainly be made known , that I am thy unfeigned Lover . Maid . Hands off good Sir , pray let me be gone to me you are but a stranger , And if I should tarry with you all alone , I fear it would breed much danger . But if you really be my friend , and mean no harm to do me ; Pray tell me quickly to what end , you have spoken these words unto me . For certainly until that I , by chance came lately hither , In any place or company , we two were never together . Man. It's true my Dear , I must confess , thou speakest but what is reason , For I never had the happiness , to see thee before this season . Yet I have herd much of thy worth , by many a true relation , Thy name exceedingly is set forth , with praise and commendation . For in that precious breast of thine , such Virtues rare are dwelling , Thy person seems to be divine , all other far excelling . Thy Beauty it does shine most clear , and so comely is thy Feature , That thou art admired far and near , to be a most peerless Creature . Thy courtestie to all appears , and thou haste a most lovely Carriage , O! that to rid me of all fears , thou wertenberg joined with me in Marriage . For therefore it's , that hither I come , to do my best endeavour , Resolving never more to go home , until I have gained thy favour . The second part , to the same tune . TO Hen prithee love let me know thy mind sweated let my speeches move thee And let my suit acceptance find , for dearly I do love thee - Maid . Your praises are far above my desert , yet I humbly thank you for them , If that they proceed from a faithful heart , for otherwise I do abhor them . But though your words & amp ; speeches be fair , and your tongue runs very nimble , Yet well it behoves me to have a care , for young men they will dissemble . Man. Oh do not think that I flatter my Dear , but put me unto the trial , A faithful mind I ever did bear , and my heart unto thee is loyal . I would not falsify my words , nor altar my affections , For all the wealth that the world affords for I hate such unworthy actions . My love is wholly fixed on thee , my mind shall never vary , But I will always constant be , untie my lovely Marry . Then prithee Love let me know thy mind , sweet let my speeches move thee , And let my suit acceptance find , for dearly I do love thee . Maid . Sweet sir I perceive by what you say , you have a desire to Marry , Yet let me be well advised I pray , for fear that I should miscarry . Such charges goes to a married Life , as are not easily gained , And if that I should become your wife , pray how shall I be maintained . Man. I that my Dear , be all thou dost fear , the matter will soon be decided ; For I have five hundred pounds a year , then am not I well provided . When ever thou wants either silver or gold , if that thou dost but crave it , Though it be as much as thy Apron will hold , yet thou shalt quickly have it . Then prithee Love let me know thy mind sweet let my speeches move thee , And let my suit acceptance find , for dearly I do love these . Maid . Why then sweet Sir , to you I yield , without any more denial , Your kind request shall be fulfilled , and I hope you will be loyal . Therefore appoint our Wedding day , that as we our troth have plighted , Ev [ e ] n so we may , without farther delay be unto each other united . Man. How pleasant is my true Loves voice , like Music sweet it soundeth , Because thou hast confirmed my choice , my heart with joy aboundeth . Here take my hand thou pretty one , who hast my heart already , I'll constant be to thee alone , my love it is firm and steady . And since thou with me , so well dost agree my pretty amorous Lady , Our Nuptial Rites performed shall be , with as much speed as may be . Then will I strive to please my Love , and answer all her wishes , And eke embrace my Turtledove , with thousands of sweet kisses . So shall we live in true content , and never be offended , But spend our days in merriment , until our lives are ended . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . FINIS . The Young men Joy , and the Maids Happiness . OR , A pretty WORSER ialogue , between two amorous Lovers . The Youngman Wooed the Damosel fair , and soon obtained her faivour , So they became a loving pair , it fit that he ' should have her . For now they sweetly do agree , their minds in nothing vary , But Thomas vows he'll constant be , unto his pretty Marry . To the Tune of , My F ather gave me House and Land . A S lately I to take the fresh Air , within the fields was walking , There did I espy a Damosel fair , that with a brave Lad was talking . She was indeed a lovely Lass , I never saw a sweeter ; And he a gallant young Man was , who with these kind words did greet her . Man. Come hither to me my Amorous Girl , for dearly I do love thee , Thy person is far more precious than Pearl and I prize no one above thee . O [ h ] therefore be not coy my dear , thou hast no cause to fly me , I'll do thee no harm , thou needest not fear then prithee Love fit down by me . And if my suit thou wilt but own , my mind I will discover , And it shall plainly be made known , that I am thy unfeigned Lover . Maid . Hands off good Sir , pray let me be gone to me you are but a stranger , And if I should tarry with you all alone , I fear it would breed much danger . But if you really be my friend , and mean no harm to do me ; Pray tell me quickly to what end , you have spoken these words unto me . For certainly until that I , by chance came lately hither , In any place or company , we two were never together . Man. It's true my Dear , I must confess , thou speakest but what is reason , For I never had the happiness , to see thee before this season . Yet I have herd much of thy worth , by many a true relation , Thy name exceedingly is set forth , with praise and commendation . For in that precious breast of thine , such Virtues rare are dwelling , Thy person seems to be divine , all other far excelling . Thy Beauty it does shine most clear , and so comely is thy Feature , That thou art admired far and near , to be a most peerless Creature . Thy courtestie to all appears , and thou haste a most lovely Carriage , O! that to rid me of all fears , thou wertenberg joined with me in Marriage . For therefore it's , that hither I come , to do my best endeavour , Resolving never more to go home , until I have gained thy favour . The second part , to the same tune . TO Hen prithee love let me know thy mind sweated let my speeches move thee And let my suit acceptance find , for dearly I do love thee - Maid . Your praises are far above my desert , yet I humbly thank you for them , If that they proceed from a faithful heart , for otherwise I do abhor them . But though your words & amp ; speeches be fair , and your tongue runs very nimble , Yet well it behoves me to have a care , for young men they will dissemble . Man. Oh do not think that I flatter my Dear , but put me unto the trial , A faithful mind I ever did bear , and my heart unto thee is loyal . I would not falsify my words , nor altar my affections , For all the wealth that the world affords for I hate such unworthy actions . My love is wholly fixed on thee , my mind shall never vary , But I will always constant be , untie my lovely Marry . Then prithee Love let me know thy mind , sweet let my speeches move thee , And let my suit acceptance find , for dearly I do love thee . Maid . Sweet sir I perceive by what you say , you have a desire to Marry , Yet let me be well advised I pray , for fear that I should miscarry . Such charges goes to a married Life , as are not easily gained , And if that I should become your wife , pray how shall I be maintained . Man. I that my Dear , be all thou dost fear , the matter will soon be decided ; For I have five hundred pounds a year , then am not I well provided . When ever thou wants either silver or gold , if that thou dost but crave it , Though it be as much as thy Apron will hold , yet thou shalt quickly have it . Then prithee Love let me know thy mind sweet let my speeches move thee , And let my suit acceptance find , for dearly I do love these . Maid . Why then sweet Sir , to you I yield , without any more denial , Your kind request shall be fulfilled , and I hope you will be loyal . Therefore appoint our Wedding day , that as we our troth have plighted , Ev [ e ] n so we may , without farther delay be unto each other united . Man. How pleasant is my true Loves voice , like Music sweet it soundeth , Because thou hast confirmed my choice , my heart with joy aboundeth . Here take my hand thou pretty one , who hast my heart already , I'll constant be to thee alone , my love it is firm and steady . And since thou with me , so well dost agree my pretty amorous Lady , Our Nuptial Rites performed shall be , with as much speed as may be . Then will I strive to please my Love , and answer all her wishes , And eke embrace my Turtledove , with thousands of sweet kisses . So shall we live in true content , and never be offended , But spend our days in merriment , until our lives are ended . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . FINIS . 