THE Shepherd's Complaint : AND THE Comforting Shepherdess . P oor Choron making his complaint , was comforted at last ; But when he thought himself undone , his Silvia held him fast . To the Tune of , Moggy's Jeousie . O H Cupid thou now art too cruel , to use a poor Lover severe , Thou dost to my flame add a fuel , that costs me full many a tear : Then cease to be so out of reason , and let me no longer complain , But grant me some ease for a season , and ease all my sorrow and pain . While others do sweetly lie sleeping , I sighs by my self all alone , My eyes they are swelled with weeping , no sorrows like mine ever was kn [ owe ] n : But while to myself I do pine , I do find all my sorrow in vain , For my love she will never be so kind , as to banish my sorrow [ w ] and pain . Ah Silvia , be cruel [ n ] oh longer , to him that thy beauty adores , Thy Charms they grow stronger & amp ; stronger then let thy soft tears w [ a ] sh my sores : Which I for thy sake have endured , though thou dost my service disdain , I'm certain they cannot be Cured , but I must e'n die of my pain . What profit Love is it unto thee , to frown a poor lover to death ? And murder the man that does woo thee , thus strangely to stifle his breath ; My dear I do entreat thee , to grant me my freedom again , For certainly if thou dost cheat me , I languish betwixt sorrow and pain . But in vain do I beg for a freedom , when Cruelty locks up the door , If youngmen they once would but heed they they never love beauty's no more : Then be but as kind as you are fair , and we shall no longer complain , But now we for death must prepare , and die with extremes of [ pain . ] The Woman's Answer . W Hat makes my dear shepherd to languish and sighs on his pitiful moan ? I bleed at the thoughts of his anguish , he knows that I love him alone : But yet he does seem to be jealous , of some that do graze on the Plain , But I think he hath very few fellows , and therefore il'e constant remain . He talks of the pains he endured , and suffered all for my sake , I'm wounded and cannot be cured , and my heart it is ready to break : But Coron is still a reviling , the truest that lives on the Plain , No longer then I am a smiling , but he feels a terrible pain . If I should be always a kissing , the world would my folly admire , The Shepherd's at us would lie hissing , and hinder what he does desire : But i'll in a corner embrace him , that he may no longer complain ; At night in my bosom I'll place him , for to banish his sorrow and pain . Was ever poor Shepherdess kinder , then now I do promise to be ? How can he then choose but mind her that loves so unchangeably : He cannot enjoy greater bliss , then with his true love to remain , That each minute will give him a Kiss , for to banish his sorrow and pain . You Lovers take pattern by me then , that hath vowed to be constant to death , For all Loyal Shepherd's to see then , that I at the losing my breath , Was free from all kind of deceit , and a wavering mind did disdain , Now kindness I once more repeat , and I wast with my horrible pain . F INIS . Printed for Josiah Blare , at the L ooking Glass , in the New Buildings on London Bridge . THE Shepherd's Complaint : AND THE Comforting Shepherdess . P oor Choron making his complaint , was comforted at last ; But when he thought himself undone , his Silvia held him fast . To the Tune of , Moggy's Jeousie . O H Cupid thou now art too cruel , to use a poor Lover severe , Thou dost to my flame add a fuel , that costs me full many a tear : Then cease to be so out of reason , and let me no longer complain , But grant me some ease for a season , and ease all my sorrow and pain . While others do sweetly lie sleeping , I sighs by my self all alone , My eyes they are swelled with weeping , no sorrows like mine ever was kn [ owe ] n : But while to myself I do pine , I do find all my sorrow in vain , For my love she will never be so kind , as to banish my sorrow [ w ] and pain . Ah Silvia , be cruel [ n ] oh longer , to him that thy beauty adores , Thy Charms they grow stronger & amp ; stronger then let thy soft tears w [ a ] sh my sores : Which I for thy sake have endured , though thou dost my service disdain , I'm certain they cannot be Cured , but I must e'n die of my pain . What profit Love is it unto thee , to frown a poor lover to death ? And murder the man that does woo thee , thus strangely to stifle his breath ; My dear I do entreat thee , to grant me my freedom again , For certainly if thou dost cheat me , I languish betwixt sorrow and pain . But in vain do I beg for a freedom , when Cruelty locks up the door , If youngmen they once would but heed they they never love beauty's no more : Then be but as kind as you are fair , and we shall no longer complain , But now we for death must prepare , and die with extremes of [ pain . ] The Woman's Answer . W Hat makes my dear shepherd to languish and sighs on his pitiful moan ? I bleed at the thoughts of his anguish , he knows that I love him alone : But yet he does seem to be jealous , of some that do graze on the Plain , But I think he hath very few fellows , and therefore il'e constant remain . He talks of the pains he endured , and suffered all for my sake , I'm wounded and cannot be cured , and my heart it is ready to break : But Coron is still a reviling , the truest that lives on the Plain , No longer then I am a smiling , but he feels a terrible pain . If I should be always a kissing , the world would my folly admire , The Shepherd's at us would lie hissing , and hinder what he does desire : But i'll in a corner embrace him , that he may no longer complain ; At night in my bosom I'll place him , for to banish his sorrow and pain . Was ever poor Shepherdess kinder , then now I do promise to be ? How can he then choose but mind her that loves so unchangeably : He cannot enjoy greater bliss , then with his true love to remain , That each minute will give him a Kiss , for to banish his sorrow and pain . You Lovers take pattern by me then , that hath vowed to be constant to death , For all Loyal Shepherd's to see then , that I at the losing my breath , Was free from all kind of deceit , and a wavering mind did disdain , Now kindness I once more repeat , and I wast with my horrible pain . F INIS . Printed for Josiah Blare , at the L ooking Glass , in the New Buildings on London Bridge . 