GEORGE the Glover , AND Grace the Bone-Lace-maker . George vowed he was a faithful Lover , But proved a false and faithless Glover , At length he god this Lass with child , Which made the Bone-Lace-maker wild . To the Tune of , Tell me Jenny tell me roundly . C ome my Grace come fit thee by me , let me taste of thy sweet kisses , I do hope thouled not deny me , nor bereave me of my blisses : In thy dear sighed , my delight , now to thee I do discover , Let not me , despised be , for me thy faithful loving Glover . O forbear your complementing , now a days men grow deceitful , Maids are e'ry day repenting , that your sex are so ungrateful ; Could I find , a man so kind , that would never more forsake her , Whom he loves , but loyal proves , he should have a Gold-Lace-maker . O my Grace if thouled believe me , in loves Fetters I am chained . But methinks , Loves Chains and Links , seem something pleasant to a Lover , Then I say , never say me nay , I am honest George the Glover . prey my dear one do not fear me , for i'll faithful be unto thee , If I did not love thee dearly , I had never come to woe thee ; But my heart , does feel such smart , by my eyes you may discover , That I am , a Loyal man , called honest George the Glover . Well , quoth she , if thou art Loyal , I will ever be true unto thee , If thou art false when I make trial , thou wilt certainly undo me ; I feel a flame , I dare not name , by yea , and nay , I [ a ] m not Quaker , The second part , to the same tune , Many Kisses they exchanged , Grace she seemed exceeding kind too , George from his pretences ranged , and told her what he had a mind to : Down they lay , began to play , and still did vow never to forsake her , She did yield , he wone the field , so he betrayed the Gold-Lace-maker . Thus they for a season toyed , and each heart whs set on fire , What she wanted she enjoyed , he pretended but to try her ; But their jest in earnest proved , and her belly did discover , That the sport she dearly loved , which she had with George the Glover . George the Glover strangely stared , when he see her belly swell , For her Babe she then prepared , but what to do he could not tell : Then away , without delay , went bonny George unto his lover , With twenty Guineys in his hand , thus to her spoke George the Glover . Dearest if thou art contented , here is twenty Guineys for thee , For what i've done I have repented , though at once I did adore thee ; Lust to fulfil , I god my will , and though I vowed I'de never forsake her , But like a Knave , I did behave , my self unto the Bone-Lace-maker . You fair maids that have your freedom , and your heart can call your own still , Great pretenders always heed them , lest you've cause to make your moan still : Youngmen you find , oft prove unkind , yet vow and swear they'll never forsake her , George he swore , did Grace adore , and yet deceived the Bone-Lace-maker . London Prinied for Joshua Conyers at the sign of the Black Raven in Duck-Lane . 1683. GEORGE the Glover , AND Grace the Bone-Lace-maker . George vowed he was a faithful Lover , But proved a false and faithless Glover , At length he god this Lass with child , Which made the Bone-Lace-maker wild . To the Tune of , Tell me Jenny tell me roundly . C ome my Grace come fit thee by me , let me taste of thy sweet kisses , I do hope thouled not deny me , nor bereave me of my blisses : In thy dear sighed , my delight , now to thee I do discover , Let not me , despised be , for me thy faithful loving Glover . O forbear your complementing , now a days men grow deceitful , Maids are e'ry day repenting , that your sex are so ungrateful ; Could I find , a man so kind , that would never more forsake her , Whom he loves , but loyal proves , he should have a Gold-Lace-maker . O my Grace if thouled believe me , in loves Fetters I am chained . But methinks , Loves Chains and Links , seem something pleasant to a Lover , Then I say , never say me nay , I am honest George the Glover . prey my dear one do not fear me , for i'll faithful be unto thee , If I did not love thee dearly , I had never come to woe thee ; But my heart , does feel such smart , by my eyes you may discover , That I am , a Loyal man , called honest George the Glover . Well , quoth she , if thou art Loyal , I will ever be true unto thee , If thou art false when I make trial , thou wilt certainly undo me ; I feel a flame , I dare not name , by yea , and nay , I [ a ] m not Quaker , The second part , to the same tune , Many Kisses they exchanged , Grace she seemed exceeding kind too , George from his pretences ranged , and told her what he had a mind to : Down they lay , began to play , and still did vow never to forsake her , She did yield , he wone the field , so he betrayed the Gold-Lace-maker . Thus they for a season toyed , and each heart whs set on fire , What she wanted she enjoyed , he pretended but to try her ; But their jest in earnest proved , and her belly did discover , That the sport she dearly loved , which she had with George the Glover . George the Glover strangely stared , when he see her belly swell , For her Babe she then prepared , but what to do he could not tell : Then away , without delay , went bonny George unto his lover , With twenty Guineys in his hand , thus to her spoke George the Glover . Dearest if thou art contented , here is twenty Guineys for thee , For what i've done I have repented , though at once I did adore thee ; Lust to fulfil , I god my will , and though I vowed I'de never forsake her , But like a Knave , I did behave , my self unto the Bone-Lace-maker . You fair maids that have your freedom , and your heart can call your own still , Great pretenders always heed them , lest you've cause to make your moan still : Youngmen you find , oft prove unkind , yet vow and swear they'll never forsake her , George he swore , did Grace adore , and yet deceived the Bone-Lace-maker . London Prinied for Joshua Conyers at the sign of the Black Raven in Duck-Lane . 1683. 