Diana's Darling , Or The Modish Courtier . The fair Diana whom the amorous Swains , Had strove to vanquish with a deal of pains , At last by Hylas modish courtship pressed , Grants him that favour she denied the rest , By whose Examples future Lovers may , Learn by what means their Mistress to enjoy . To and excellent new Tune much in request called Diana ' s a nymph . With Allowance . [ WORSER ] Iana's a Nymph so chaste and so fair That Venus her self may not with her compare , [ ? ] Venus her self she hath had the great praise , [ ? ] same it is altered and changed now a days , [ Then ] ever hereafter all honour and fame , [ Shall be ] rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great Name . [ Dian ] a's a Nymph so happy and free [ The ] re's none so delightful and pleasant as she , [ ? b ] eauty excelling the rest of her Sex , [ ? ] changed she knows in her mind they do daily perplex [ Then ] ever hereafter all honour and fame , [ Shall ] be rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great Name . [ Dian ] a has breasts , Diana has eyes [ Wou ] ld summon the surlist of stoics to rise ; [ ? ] seeing her face heeed be puritanic no more , [ ? ] leave his close Cell and straight fallen to adore , [ Then ] ever hereafter all honour and fame , [ Shall be ] rendered be rendered to Diana's great Name . Diana's soft touch with her delicate hand , W old make the morosest of Hermit's to stand Amazed to feel what and amorous rage , Her grasp would infuse into wrinked old age , Then ever hereafter all honour and fame Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great Name . A cripple that halts , and never had gone , In time out of mind from his smoky old home , Would slight his old pain and his Crutches despise And father his cure on Diana's bright eyes , Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great Name . In Diana when ere she resolves to be kind Such wraptures of pleasure her Lover may find , As deny him the leisure to weigh the blessed fate , Or think there is any such Heaven as that . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great Name . Both Silvia and Juno and Celia appear Like dowdies deformed when Diana draws near , Her beams like the Suns in the firmament shine , They scarce look like Mortals while she seems divine Then ever hereafter all honour and fame . Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name . Diana one Morn I saw in a Grove , And told her in short of my passionate love , At first with a frown she my Language did hear , But still I proceeded with pleasure and fear . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name . I sang it so loud Diana did smile , And I feasted my soul on her beauty's the while Ah fair one forbear to be cruel said I , And save you poor Hilas thats going to die . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame . Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name . The Beauty stood mute while I leaned on her breast , Where thrusting my hand somewhat lower I pressed Ah Diana said I , might I chosen the great bliss , To be found in the World I should think it were this . Then ever here after all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name . She blushed all the while my straggling hand , Was plunged heart in her bosom & amp ; then command That I the sweet pleasure should that time forbear , Because we beheld a young shepherd draw near . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rende'rd to Diana's great name . With that we went both to a Neighing shade , Which Nature on purpose for Lovers had made , Where the amorous Trees did so kindly combine , That nought but Diana's bright beauty could shine . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great name . I pressed her again to grant the sweet bliss , She smiled and her heavenly answer was this , The care longs to you ; my dear Hilas to you , That the do not a harmless young Virgin undo . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name With that in the dark more pleasing then light , We fell to such soft & amp ; amazing Delight That the Gods though much better they be In vain did oft wish though to be happy as we . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame . Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven the first shop in Fetter-lane next Holborn . Diana's Darling , Or The Modish Courtier . The fair Diana whom the amorous Swains , Had strove to vanquish with a deal of pains , At last by Hylas modish courtship pressed , Grants him that favour she denied the rest , By whose Examples future Lovers may , Learn by what means their Mistress to enjoy . To and excellent new Tune much in request called Diana ' s a nymph . With Allowance . [ WORSER ] Iana's a Nymph so chaste and so fair That Venus her self may not with her compare , [ ? ] Venus her self she hath had the great praise , [ ? ] same it is altered and changed now a days , [ Then ] ever hereafter all honour and fame , [ Shall be ] rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great Name . [ Dian ] a's a Nymph so happy and free [ The ] re's none so delightful and pleasant as she , [ ? b ] eauty excelling the rest of her Sex , [ ? ] changed she knows in her mind they do daily perplex [ Then ] ever hereafter all honour and fame , [ Shall ] be rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great Name . [ Dian ] a has breasts , Diana has eyes [ Wou ] ld summon the surlist of stoics to rise ; [ ? ] seeing her face heeed be puritanic no more , [ ? ] leave his close Cell and straight fallen to adore , [ Then ] ever hereafter all honour and fame , [ Shall be ] rendered be rendered to Diana's great Name . Diana's soft touch with her delicate hand , W old make the morosest of Hermit's to stand Amazed to feel what and amorous rage , Her grasp would infuse into wrinked old age , Then ever hereafter all honour and fame Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great Name . A cripple that halts , and never had gone , In time out of mind from his smoky old home , Would slight his old pain and his Crutches despise And father his cure on Diana's bright eyes , Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great Name . In Diana when ere she resolves to be kind Such wraptures of pleasure her Lover may find , As deny him the leisure to weigh the blessed fate , Or think there is any such Heaven as that . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great Name . Both Silvia and Juno and Celia appear Like dowdies deformed when Diana draws near , Her beams like the Suns in the firmament shine , They scarce look like Mortals while she seems divine Then ever hereafter all honour and fame . Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name . Diana one Morn I saw in a Grove , And told her in short of my passionate love , At first with a frown she my Language did hear , But still I proceeded with pleasure and fear . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name . I sang it so loud Diana did smile , And I feasted my soul on her beauty's the while Ah fair one forbear to be cruel said I , And save you poor Hilas thats going to die . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame . Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name . The Beauty stood mute while I leaned on her breast , Where thrusting my hand somewhat lower I pressed Ah Diana said I , might I chosen the great bliss , To be found in the World I should think it were this . Then ever here after all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name . She blushed all the while my straggling hand , Was plunged heart in her bosom & amp ; then command That I the sweet pleasure should that time forbear , Because we beheld a young shepherd draw near . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rende'rd to Diana's great name . With that we went both to a Neighing shade , Which Nature on purpose for Lovers had made , Where the amorous Trees did so kindly combine , That nought but Diana's bright beauty could shine . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana ' s great name . I pressed her again to grant the sweet bliss , She smiled and her heavenly answer was this , The care longs to you ; my dear Hilas to you , That the do not a harmless young Virgin undo . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame , Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name With that in the dark more pleasing then light , We fell to such soft & amp ; amazing Delight That the Gods though much better they be In vain did oft wish though to be happy as we . Then ever hereafter all honour and fame . Shall be rendered be rendered to Diana's great name Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven the first shop in Fetter-lane next Holborn . 