THE High-prized Pinbox . This Damsel she does set great store by her Pinbox brisk and rare , But every ordinary Whore hath god such kind of ware . Tune of , Let every man with Cap in's hand , etc I Have a gallant Pinbox the like you never did see , It is where never was the Pox , something above my knee : Oh it's a gallant Pinbox , you never saw the peer ; Then I'll not leave my Pinbox for Fifty pound a year . My Pinbox is the Portion my mother left with me ; Which gains me much promotion , and great tranquillity : It does maintain me bravely , although all things are dear ; Then isle not etc My Pinbox is a treasure which many men delights : For therewith I can pleasure both Earls , Lords , and Knights ; If they shall use my Pinbox they will not think it dear , Although that it does cost them and hundred pound a year . The Parson and the Vicar though they are Holy men , Yet no man shall be quicker to use my Pinbox , when They think no man does know it ; for that is all their fear : Then isle not etc The cogging cheating Liar that does all men abuse , Will speak me very fair my Pinbox for to use ; Yea , and will be as liberal as any that come there : Then isle not leave my Pinbox for and hundred pound a year . The Usurer that grindeth to get Use upon Use ; Often a time he finds to come to play with Puss ; Yea , and will give me something , saying take this my dear : Then etc The grievous hard Curmugeon that lives upon brown bred , Unto me will be trudging , if that he be not sped ; Yea , and will give me something , though little he will spare : Then etc The Chirurgeon and the Doctor , that does both cure and kill , The Chanceller and Proctor , and the Paritor will Bestow large gifts upon me , if that they shall come there : Then etc The Grocer and the Draper that lives on their Trades , Will leap and skip and caper and think themselves brave blades , And for to use my Pinbox , they will give me some Ware : Then etc The Dairy-men and Farmers that lives on their Stocks , Who love to fill their garners , and to increase their flocks ; For the use of my Pinbox , the best of it will spare : Then etc . The Clothier , and the Dyer , and Tucker dressed with flocks , Does very oft desire for to use my Pinbox ; And though they hard does labour , yet something they will spare , Then etc The Wool-comber that labours for's living with his Combes , Will fell them , and the Weavers will do away their Looms , And all to use my Pinbox , because it is so rare , Then etc The Butcher that is killing , sometime of Cow and Calf , Is very often willing to give me more than half For the use of my Pinbox , and will not think it dear : Then etc The man that lives by's labour , those piteous ragged sots , Will think it a great favour for to use my Pinbox ; And though he gets but little yet something he will spare , Then etc And to be short there's no man , let him be high or low , That did come of a woman but will some Coin bestow For the use of my Pinbox , because it is so rare : Then etc But to conclude my Ditty , and my most harmless Song If any in the City or the Country does long For the use of my Pinbox , and will some money spare , Then they shall use my Pinbox as long as they can stare . Printed for J Wright . J Clark W. Thackery and T. Passenger . THE High-prized Pinbox . This Damsel she does set great store by her Pinbox brisk and rare , But every ordinary Whore hath god such kind of ware . Tune of , Let every man with Cap in's hand , etc I Have a gallant Pinbox the like you never did see , It is where never was the Pox , something above my knee : Oh it's a gallant Pinbox , you never saw the peer ; Then I'll not leave my Pinbox for Fifty pound a year . My Pinbox is the Portion my mother left with me ; Which gains me much promotion , and great tranquillity : It does maintain me bravely , although all things are dear ; Then isle not etc My Pinbox is a treasure which many men delights : For therewith I can pleasure both Earls , Lords , and Knights ; If they shall use my Pinbox they will not think it dear , Although that it does cost them and hundred pound a year . The Parson and the Vicar though they are Holy men , Yet no man shall be quicker to use my Pinbox , when They think no man does know it ; for that is all their fear : Then isle not etc The cogging cheating Liar that does all men abuse , Will speak me very fair my Pinbox for to use ; Yea , and will be as liberal as any that come there : Then isle not leave my Pinbox for and hundred pound a year . The Usurer that grindeth to get Use upon Use ; Often a time he finds to come to play with Puss ; Yea , and will give me something , saying take this my dear : Then etc The grievous hard Curmugeon that lives upon brown bred , Unto me will be trudging , if that he be not sped ; Yea , and will give me something , though little he will spare : Then etc The Chirurgeon and the Doctor , that does both cure and kill , The Chanceller and Proctor , and the Paritor will Bestow large gifts upon me , if that they shall come there : Then etc The Grocer and the Draper that lives on their Trades , Will leap and skip and caper and think themselves brave blades , And for to use my Pinbox , they will give me some Ware : Then etc The Dairy-men and Farmers that lives on their Stocks , Who love to fill their garners , and to increase their flocks ; For the use of my Pinbox , the best of it will spare : Then etc . The Clothier , and the Dyer , and Tucker dressed with flocks , Does very oft desire for to use my Pinbox ; And though they hard does labour , yet something they will spare , Then etc The Wool-comber that labours for's living with his Combes , Will fell them , and the Weavers will do away their Looms , And all to use my Pinbox , because it is so rare , Then etc The Butcher that is killing , sometime of Cow and Calf , Is very often willing to give me more than half For the use of my Pinbox , and will not think it dear : Then etc The man that lives by's labour , those piteous ragged sots , Will think it a great favour for to use my Pinbox ; And though he gets but little yet something he will spare , Then etc And to be short there's no man , let him be high or low , That did come of a woman but will some Coin bestow For the use of my Pinbox , because it is so rare : Then etc But to conclude my Ditty , and my most harmless Song If any in the City or the Country does long For the use of my Pinbox , and will some money spare , Then they shall use my Pinbox as long as they can stare . Printed for J Wright . J Clark W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 