Fair LUCINA Conquered By prevailing Cupid . She that triumphed in disdain , at last was forced to yield , And of her self she thus complained , when Cupid wone the Field : Though at the first I was unkind , yet now i'll loving be , And that my Coridon shall I find if he'l return to me , When Coridon did hear these words , he did most joyfully Embrace his kind , and dearest Love ; and they did both agree . To the Tune of , Jenny Gin , Or Russels Farewell , This may be printed R. L. S. LUcina sitting in her Bower , was wounded with a dart , Ascending from the secret power , which smote her to the heart , Immediately she thus did cry , who can my comforts spill ? Who can compel me for to love contrary to my will ? Quoth Cupid , I will humble thee , and will subdue thy pride , I'll make thee now submit to me , it shall not be denied : I'll send such Arrows to thy heart , proceeding from my bow , Shall make thee feel loves fatal smart whither thou wilt or no . Quoth she , I did design to live a Maiden until Death , But now thou hast so wounded me , alas ! I pant for breath , Thou pretty Nymph be not unkind to cast love quite away , I will be loyal thou shalt find unto my dying day , Sweet Coridon's deluding tongue , hath so ensnared my mind , That in Loves fiery flames I burn , and can no comfort find ? I slighted him who was my love and held him in disdain , But now my ruin it does prove ; in vain I may complain . What sweet expressions did he use , my favour to obtain , But I his kindness did abuse , by foul and gross diidain , For now I languish here in grief , and can no comfort see , Kind Death afford me some relief , make haste and set me free . O proud ambition , why did I his kindness thus reject , Who loved me so tenderly , showed me such respect , A Princely presence , graced with Fame , which did adorn him so , Which renders me indeed to blame , for often saying no . These words had scarcely pierced the air , ever her sweet Coridon Did to his dearest love repair , whose heart with Love was wone : All sorrow then was vanished quite , each Lover had their bliss ; They both enjoyed their hearts delight , and sealed it with a kiss . The pretty Birds with pleasant notes most sweetly they did sing , With melody from their sweet throats , which made the Groves to ring , Thus they proclaimed their mutual joy when Lovers did agree , Nothing seemed for to annoy , that gracious Harmony , Printed for J. Conyer's at the black Raven in Fetterlane next HolbornFair LUCINA Conquered By prevailing Cupid . She that triumphed in disdain , at last was forced to yield , And of her self she thus complained , when Cupid wone the Field : Though at the first I was unkind , yet now i'll loving be , And that my Coridon shall I find if he'l return to me , When Coridon did hear these words , he did most joyfully Embrace his kind , and dearest Love ; and they did both agree . To the Tune of , Jenny Gin , Or Russels Farewell , This may be printed R. L. S. LUcina sitting in her Bower , was wounded with a dart , Ascending from the secret power , which smote her to the heart , Immediately she thus did cry , who can my comforts spill ? Who can compel me for to love contrary to my will ? Quoth Cupid , I will humble thee , and will subdue thy pride , I'll make thee now submit to me , it shall not be denied : I'll send such Arrows to thy heart , proceeding from my bow , Shall make thee feel loves fatal smart whither thou wilt or no . Quoth she , I did design to live a Maiden until Death , But now thou hast so wounded me , alas ! I pant for breath , Thou pretty Nymph be not unkind to cast love quite away , I will be loyal thou shalt find unto my dying day , Sweet Coridon's deluding tongue , hath so ensnared my mind , That in Loves fiery flames I burn , and can no comfort find ? I slighted him who was my love and held him in disdain , But now my ruin it does prove ; in vain I may complain . What sweet expressions did he use , my favour to obtain , But I his kindness did abuse , by foul and gross diidain , For now I languish here in grief , and can no comfort see , Kind Death afford me some relief , make haste and set me free . O proud ambition , why did I his kindness thus reject , Who loved me so tenderly , showed me such respect , A Princely presence , graced with Fame , which did adorn him so , Which renders me indeed to blame , for often saying no . These words had scarcely pierced the air , ever her sweet Coridon Did to his dearest love repair , whose heart with Love was wone : All sorrow then was vanished quite , each Lover had their bliss ; They both enjoyed their hearts delight , and sealed it with a kiss . The pretty Birds with pleasant notes most sweetly they did sing , With melody from their sweet throats , which made the Groves to ring , Thus they proclaimed their mutual joy when Lovers did agree , Nothing seemed for to annoy , that gracious Harmony , Printed for J. Conyer's at the black Raven in Fetterlane next Holborn 