Have-at a Venture : The Charms of love so powerful are , What mortal can withstand , Or , who can say oppose they dare Where Cupid bears command , This Damsel quickly she did yield The youngsters skill to try , The twinkling Archer wone the Field , And then she down did lie . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . A Country Lad and bonny Lass they did together meet , And as they did together pass thus he began to greet : What I do say I pray mind well , and thus I do begin : If you would have your Belly swell Hold up , and I'l put in . Oh! Sir , ( quoth she ) I love the sport , yet am afraid to try , And for your love I thank you fored , find but conveniency : My mind I'll tell you by and by , your love my heart does win , And presently I down will lie , Oh! then Boy put it in . He clasped this Damsel round the waste , and softly laid her down , Yea , wantonly he her embraced and her delights did Crown : Thrust home ( quoth she ) my brisk young Lad , it's but a venial since , For I should soon have run quite mad had you not put it in . The sport he did so close pursue that he was quickly tired , But when he did her beauty view his heart again was fired : He came on with such fresh supplies , he did her favour win , And finding Babies in her eyes , he bravly thrust it in . What pleasure is there like to this , this Damsel then did cry , I've herd them talk of lovers bliss , Oh! what a fool was I So long to live a maid , ever I did this same sport begin ; This death I now could freely die : I prithee thrust it in . She held this Youngster to his task till he began to blow ; Then at the last he leave did ask and so she let him go : Then down he panting lay a while , and rouzing up again She charmed him with a lovely smile , again to put it in . To work he went most earnestly , her fancy to fulfil ; Till at the last she loud did cry , I do't with such good will , I pleasure feel in e'ry Vein ; my joys do now begin , O Dearest quickly to't again , and stoutly thrust it in . She seemed at last to be content , and glad at heart was he , His Youthful strength was almost spent ; so brisk a Lass was she : He vow [ ' ] worser he never was so matched , nor never shall be again : And for that time they both dispatched , though he had put it in . But when she from him parted was thus she began to cry , Was ever any wanton Lass in such a case as I : He that hath god my Maidenhead I never shall see again , And now my heart is almost dead , to think he put it in . But yet it had the sweetest taste that ever mortal knew , Our time we did not vainly waste , believe me this is true : Should I ever see my bonny Lad , I'ld venture once again , And let the world account me mad , again I'll put it in . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W Thackery and T. Passenger . Have-at a Venture : The Charms of love so powerful are , What mortal can withstand , Or , who can say oppose they dare Where Cupid bears command , This Damsel quickly she did yield The youngsters skill to try , The twinkling Archer wone the Field , And then she down did lie . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . A Country Lad and bonny Lass they did together meet , And as they did together pass thus he began to greet : What I do say I pray mind well , and thus I do begin : If you would have your Belly swell Hold up , and I'l put in . Oh! Sir , ( quoth she ) I love the sport , yet am afraid to try , And for your love I thank you fored , find but conveniency : My mind I'll tell you by and by , your love my heart does win , And presently I down will lie , Oh! then Boy put it in . He clasped this Damsel round the waste , and softly laid her down , Yea , wantonly he her embraced and her delights did Crown : Thrust home ( quoth she ) my brisk young Lad , it's but a venial since , For I should soon have run quite mad had you not put it in . The sport he did so close pursue that he was quickly tired , But when he did her beauty view his heart again was fired : He came on with such fresh supplies , he did her favour win , And finding Babies in her eyes , he bravly thrust it in . What pleasure is there like to this , this Damsel then did cry , I've herd them talk of lovers bliss , Oh! what a fool was I So long to live a maid , ever I did this same sport begin ; This death I now could freely die : I prithee thrust it in . She held this Youngster to his task till he began to blow ; Then at the last he leave did ask and so she let him go : Then down he panting lay a while , and rouzing up again She charmed him with a lovely smile , again to put it in . To work he went most earnestly , her fancy to fulfil ; Till at the last she loud did cry , I do't with such good will , I pleasure feel in e'ry Vein ; my joys do now begin , O Dearest quickly to't again , and stoutly thrust it in . She seemed at last to be content , and glad at heart was he , His Youthful strength was almost spent ; so brisk a Lass was she : He vow [ ' ] worser he never was so matched , nor never shall be again : And for that time they both dispatched , though he had put it in . But when she from him parted was thus she began to cry , Was ever any wanton Lass in such a case as I : He that hath god my Maidenhead I never shall see again , And now my heart is almost dead , to think he put it in . But yet it had the sweetest taste that ever mortal knew , Our time we did not vainly waste , believe me this is true : Should I ever see my bonny Lad , I'ld venture once again , And let the world account me mad , again I'll put it in . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W Thackery and T. Passenger . 