The Kind Lovers , Or , Cupids Conquest over Bashfulness . Being The Happy Loves of Amandus and Coriana . A most pleasant new play song . The beauteous Nymph her bashful lover charms And by sweet songs allures him to her arms He taking heart lays all his blushes by , Forced on by Love and her attractive eye , Till to the height of bliss he does assume And then for fear his transports leave no room , For this it was the Proverb old was meant It's bashful folly spoils a good intent . To the Tune of . Hark! Hark in yond Grove , or Digbyes Farewell . Amandus . H Ark , hark , in yond Grove the fair Nymph she does sing This of love that she warbles & amp ; makes the hills ring How divinely she tunes her sweet voice to the shade And calls for her Lover as if he was fleed Oh! a beauty she's bright and the beams of her eyes Shoot stars all around and reflect on the skies . Oh! a beauty she's bright etc I'll to her i'll to her and make my love known And show her how powerful my passion is grown , Herhaps she'l be kind and grant me a kiss Alas ; I no longer can stay from my bliss . Hail , Hail my dear Virgin to thee I address With a wound in my heart that I cannot express . Hail , hail my fair Virgin etc Nor longer had power to resist the winged God Who sent his swift shaft from his Mirtell abode , Then pardon me Damsel to a Lover be kind Amandus now sews that he favour may find , Upon smiles or frowns now depend life or death Then smile Coriana and stay my swift breath . Coriana . Alas ! my Amandus the man that I sought What God or what fortune so luckily brought Thee to this Grove , encircled with streams . Amandus . Oh! am I awake now , or are these but dreams Speak , Speak my fair Angel these words are so sweet , That I am transported to hear thee repeat Coriana . Mistrust not Amandus I've loved thee so long And thou we'rt the Subject so late of my song I often have seen thee and blush'h at the sighed Yet shamed to make known my hoped for delight , After you oft I my wishing soul sent And on my Amandus these eyes often bent . Amandus . Oh! soul of my love what shall I now say To you my bright Goddess I all my vows pay , So lavishly blessed that my joy strikes me mute And did not love bid me I durst not dispute , Oh! for one kiss from those fair Ruby lips Whence Cupid himself the sweet Necture still Sips Coriana . Lay bashfulness by me Amandus i'm free Come hide my rude blushes while under this tree , Whose lofty spread shade does adorn the fair Grove , We sighs and we languish in transports of love , Here none can see us , lets take our desire And let not chaste flames on loves altar expire . Amandus . Haile to the beauty Coriana to thee And happy , thrice happy these shade may they be , That cover our joys I no longer can stay From tasting a bliss of each moment's a day , Then on this fair bank that the Violets over spread Let us expose ever this Miniute is fled . Coriana . Come , come to my Arms my Amandus I lie To receive your Embraces and blush at the Sky , Oh! softly my Lover the joy is more sweet , While I thy kind passion as willingly meet , It's Coins that spoil the fair virgins intent While she shuns what she wishes and then does repent . Amandus . This true my bright beauty young men are the same They fear to declare when they burn with loves flames , But struggle with torture which know might find ease , And not only themselves and the virgin abuse , For while languishing Eyes do only expirss That their tongues dare not ask they murder their bliss . Coriana . But as my Amandus such fears no more rule We'll learn to be perfect in cupids great School , Oh! how these transports of love do surpass The utmost that thought did imagine they was , Oh! prove but thou constant isle lull thee with Charms Though I blush my dear Hero yet leave not thy Arms. Amandus . No , no my fair Goddess I ever could dwell In the Springs of thy love and such pleasures now tell As would make all coy lovers no longer delay , But armed with desire drive blushes away . And pluck the fair fruit that they long have gazed on . While we lie thus clasped in sweet pleasures unknown . And plutk etc Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck-laneThe Kind Lovers , Or , Cupids Conquest over Bashfulness . Being The Happy Loves of Amandus and Coriana . A most pleasant new play song . The beauteous Nymph her bashful lover charms And by sweet songs allures him to her arms He taking heart lays all his blushes by , Forced on by Love and her attractive eye , Till to the height of bliss he does assume And then for fear his transports leave no room , For this it was the Proverb old was meant It's bashful folly spoils a good intent . To the Tune of . Hark! Hark in yond Grove , or Digbyes Farewell . Amandus . H Ark , hark , in yond Grove the fair Nymph she does sing This of love that she warbles & amp ; makes the hills ring How divinely she tunes her sweet voice to the shade And calls for her Lover as if he was fleed Oh! a beauty she's bright and the beams of her eyes Shoot stars all around and reflect on the skies . Oh! a beauty she's bright etc I'll to her i'll to her and make my love known And show her how powerful my passion is grown , Herhaps she'l be kind and grant me a kiss Alas ; I no longer can stay from my bliss . Hail , Hail my dear Virgin to thee I address With a wound in my heart that I cannot express . Hail , hail my fair Virgin etc Nor longer had power to resist the winged God Who sent his swift shaft from his Mirtell abode , Then pardon me Damsel to a Lover be kind Amandus now sews that he favour may find , Upon smiles or frowns now depend life or death Then smile Coriana and stay my swift breath . Coriana . Alas ! my Amandus the man that I sought What God or what fortune so luckily brought Thee to this Grove , encircled with streams . Amandus . Oh! am I awake now , or are these but dreams Speak , Speak my fair Angel these words are so sweet , That I am transported to hear thee repeat Coriana . Mistrust not Amandus I've loved thee so long And thou we'rt the Subject so late of my song I often have seen thee and blush'h at the sighed Yet shamed to make known my hoped for delight , After you oft I my wishing soul sent And on my Amandus these eyes often bent . Amandus . Oh! soul of my love what shall I now say To you my bright Goddess I all my vows pay , So lavishly blessed that my joy strikes me mute And did not love bid me I durst not dispute , Oh! for one kiss from those fair Ruby lips Whence Cupid himself the sweet Necture still Sips Coriana . Lay bashfulness by me Amandus i'm free Come hide my rude blushes while under this tree , Whose lofty spread shade does adorn the fair Grove , We sighs and we languish in transports of love , Here none can see us , lets take our desire And let not chaste flames on loves altar expire . Amandus . Haile to the beauty Coriana to thee And happy , thrice happy these shade may they be , That cover our joys I no longer can stay From tasting a bliss of each moment's a day , Then on this fair bank that the Violets over spread Let us expose ever this Miniute is fled . Coriana . Come , come to my Arms my Amandus I lie To receive your Embraces and blush at the Sky , Oh! softly my Lover the joy is more sweet , While I thy kind passion as willingly meet , It's Coins that spoil the fair virgins intent While she shuns what she wishes and then does repent . Amandus . This true my bright beauty young men are the same They fear to declare when they burn with loves flames , But struggle with torture which know might find ease , And not only themselves and the virgin abuse , For while languishing Eyes do only expirss That their tongues dare not ask they murder their bliss . Coriana . But as my Amandus such fears no more rule We'll learn to be perfect in cupids great School , Oh! how these transports of love do surpass The utmost that thought did imagine they was , Oh! prove but thou constant isle lull thee with Charms Though I blush my dear Hero yet leave not thy Arms. Amandus . No , no my fair Goddess I ever could dwell In the Springs of thy love and such pleasures now tell As would make all coy lovers no longer delay , But armed with desire drive blushes away . And pluck the fair fruit that they long have gazed on . While we lie thus clasped in sweet pleasures unknown . And plutk etc Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck-lane 