The London Lasses Hue-and-Cry After Her Dearly Beloved Robin , Whom She unluckily lost last Saturday Night . To the Tune of the Rant . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People pray give your Attention , Unto this my new Hue-and-cry , This after my Love , and I'll mention his From , and Apparel , for why , Without him I can't be contented , he is the Sole-joy of my life , For him I have wept , and lamented , I fear I shall never be a Wife . O he is my joy , love and honey , I lost him last Saturday night , I'ld give twenty Shillings in Money to those that can bring him to light . He has I must tell you , two Faces , his Head it stands quite all awry , He Ambles , and hath all his Paces , likewise he is seven hands high . Y Ou'll say that there is not a sweeter young man in the Kingdom than he , I now will describe e'ry Feature , if that you will listen to me . His Skin is as fair as tanned Leather , likewise his sweet Face to adorn , His Nose and his Hat meets together turned up like a Sow-gelders-Horn . His Teeth they are black , green and yellow , those changeable Colours are fine , And like to the fair Crimson Tallow , his Cheeks too with Beauty does shine . His pretty sweet Mouth I admire , which froths like a Tankard of Purl , The hair of his Head like soft Wire , you'll find them of Faggot-stick Curl , His pretty sweet Eyes like two Saucers , has wounded my heart now I see , His Ears they stand out like tw [ oh ] Dawcers , a pretty sweet Creature is he . Now having described his Beauty , his Body must no ways escape , For here I account it my Duty , to tell you his delicate shape . I think in the waste he is smaller than the largest size of a Drum , Beside I am sure he is taller by the head , than honest Tom Thumb . O he's a most delicate figure , his Hips they do stand out behind As broad as a Bushel and bigger , would I this sweet Creature could find . Some Villains his death has contracted , or he'd not have left me I'm sure , I shall go quite mad and distracted , this loss I can never endure . Look after my love Friends and mind him , his Age is about twenty five , A Guinny I'll give those that find him , and bring him now dead or alive . Perhaps they have pressed my sweet Jewel , to give him and Officers place , But sure they would never be so cruel , to take such a pretty sweet face . Good People with pity be filled , ho , and seek him all with one accord , Then come to the sign of the Dildoe , and there you shall have your Reward . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The London Lasses Hue-and-Cry After Her Dearly Beloved Robin , Whom She unluckily lost last Saturday Night . To the Tune of the Rant . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People pray give your Attention , Unto this my new Hue-and-cry , This after my Love , and I'll mention his From , and Apparel , for why , Without him I can't be contented , he is the Sole-joy of my life , For him I have wept , and lamented , I fear I shall never be a Wife . O he is my joy , love and honey , I lost him last Saturday night , I'ld give twenty Shillings in Money to those that can bring him to light . He has I must tell you , two Faces , his Head it stands quite all awry , He Ambles , and hath all his Paces , likewise he is seven hands high . Y Ou'll say that there is not a sweeter young man in the Kingdom than he , I now will describe e'ry Feature , if that you will listen to me . His Skin is as fair as tanned Leather , likewise his sweet Face to adorn , His Nose and his Hat meets together turned up like a Sow-gelders-Horn . His Teeth they are black , green and yellow , those changeable Colours are fine , And like to the fair Crimson Tallow , his Cheeks too with Beauty does shine . His pretty sweet Mouth I admire , which froths like a Tankard of Purl , The hair of his Head like soft Wire , you'll find them of Faggot-stick Curl , His pretty sweet Eyes like two Saucers , has wounded my heart now I see , His Ears they stand out like tw [ oh ] Dawcers , a pretty sweet Creature is he . Now having described his Beauty , his Body must no ways escape , For here I account it my Duty , to tell you his delicate shape . I think in the waste he is smaller than the largest size of a Drum , Beside I am sure he is taller by the head , than honest Tom Thumb . O he's a most delicate figure , his Hips they do stand out behind As broad as a Bushel and bigger , would I this sweet Creature could find . Some Villains his death has contracted , or he'd not have left me I'm sure , I shall go quite mad and distracted , this loss I can never endure . Look after my love Friends and mind him , his Age is about twenty five , A Guinny I'll give those that find him , and bring him now dead or alive . Perhaps they have pressed my sweet Jewel , to give him and Officers place , But sure they would never be so cruel , to take such a pretty sweet face . Good People with pity be filled , ho , and seek him all with one accord , Then come to the sign of the Dildoe , and there you shall have your Reward . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 