TO H E Kentish Frolic , OR , Sport upon Sport . Being and Account of Six Young Maidens , who , Swimming in a Ri - ver near Canterbury , was suddenly surprised by Six Young Men , who , after sporting with them in the River , took away their Smocks , Gowns and Petticoats , which occasioned much Mirth and pleasant Pastime . Tune of , Let Marry love long . Licensed according to Order . A Frolic of late Was near C anterbury , Six Lasses right merry , Joan , Bridget , and Kate , Doll , Nancy and Sue , On a hight Summer's day , These all took their way , Brisk , Buxom and Trim , To a pleasant River , To a pleasant River , Resolving to Swim . Quoth Joan , I declare , I'll show you a River , Where seldom , or never , Young Gallants come there , Thus private we be , Though our skins we expose When we strip off our Clothes , It's private I know , We'll all in together , We'll all in together , Come Girls let us go , TO H [ us ] being agreed , They trip [ ' ] worser on together , Like Birds of a Feather , Then c [ om ] ing with speed , To the River side . In the grass they sat down , Where each Lass [ ? ] her Gown , And Smicket likewise , To see them all naked , To see them all naked , Would dazzle your eyes . First Joan did begin , And cried follow after , For warm is the water , The rest ventured in Like Beautiful Swans , Thus they bathed too and from , Still above and below , They sweetened their Geer , Quoth Nancy and Susan , Quoth Nancy and Susan What pleasure is here . They had not been then Above half and hour , Ever , out of a Bower , Came five or six Men , Who knew their design , Straight they stripped to their skin , Where they followed them in , And tickled their Geer , Quoth Robin , young Lasses , Quoth Robin , young Lasses , What pleasure is here . Young Joan she did seek A place among rushes , To hide her sweet blushes , The men to the sqeek , Did put all the rest Kate , Bridget , and Sue , Cried what shall we do , The young men replied , We are for a Frolic , We are for a Frolic , They merrily cried , The Gallants god out From their charming Features , And left the poor Creatures , To wander about In water a while . When the young men was dressed , I'll vow and protest , Away they did go With Gowns , Scarves & amp ; Cornets With Gowns , Scarves & amp ; Cornets , And Smickets also . Then over the Lands , The Girls run stark naked , For they could not take it . With wringing their hands , Sad moan they did make , On their knees they did fallen , And begged of them all , To hide their disgrace , At length the young Gallants , At length the young Gallants , Did pity their case . Each Lass god her Gown , And all their Apparel , Thus ended the Quarrel , Then coming to Town , They drank and were Friends , For the young men was kind , Being all of one mind , It never had been known , But only for Susan , But only for Susan , Who quarreled with Joan . F INIS . Printed for E. Tracey , at the Three Bibles on London-Bridge . TO H E Kentish Frolic , OR , Sport upon Sport . Being and Account of Six Young Maidens , who , Swimming in a Ri - ver near Canterbury , was suddenly surprised by Six Young Men , who , after sporting with them in the River , took away their Smocks , Gowns and Petticoats , which occasioned much Mirth and pleasant Pastime . Tune of , Let Marry love long . Licensed according to Order . A Frolic of late Was near C anterbury , Six Lasses right merry , Joan , Bridget , and Kate , Doll , Nancy and Sue , On a hight Summer's day , These all took their way , Brisk , Buxom and Trim , To a pleasant River , To a pleasant River , Resolving to Swim . Quoth Joan , I declare , I'll show you a River , Where seldom , or never , Young Gallants come there , Thus private we be , Though our skins we expose When we strip off our Clothes , It's private I know , We'll all in together , We'll all in together , Come Girls let us go , TO H [ us ] being agreed , They trip [ ' ] worser on together , Like Birds of a Feather , Then c [ om ] ing with speed , To the River side . In the grass they sat down , Where each Lass [ ? ] her Gown , And Smicket likewise , To see them all naked , To see them all naked , Would dazzle your eyes . First Joan did begin , And cried follow after , For warm is the water , The rest ventured in Like Beautiful Swans , Thus they bathed too and from , Still above and below , They sweetened their Geer , Quoth Nancy and Susan , Quoth Nancy and Susan What pleasure is here . They had not been then Above half and hour , Ever , out of a Bower , Came five or six Men , Who knew their design , Straight they stripped to their skin , Where they followed them in , And tickled their Geer , Quoth Robin , young Lasses , Quoth Robin , young Lasses , What pleasure is here . Young Joan she did seek A place among rushes , To hide her sweet blushes , The men to the sqeek , Did put all the rest Kate , Bridget , and Sue , Cried what shall we do , The young men replied , We are for a Frolic , We are for a Frolic , They merrily cried , The Gallants god out From their charming Features , And left the poor Creatures , To wander about In water a while . When the young men was dressed , I'll vow and protest , Away they did go With Gowns , Scarves & amp ; Cornets With Gowns , Scarves & amp ; Cornets , And Smickets also . Then over the Lands , The Girls run stark naked , For they could not take it . With wringing their hands , Sad moan they did make , On their knees they did fallen , And begged of them all , To hide their disgrace , At length the young Gallants , At length the young Gallants , Did pity their case . Each Lass god her Gown , And all their Apparel , Thus ended the Quarrel , Then coming to Town , They drank and were Friends , For the young men was kind , Being all of one mind , It never had been known , But only for Susan , But only for Susan , Who quarreled with Joan . F INIS . Printed for E. Tracey , at the Three Bibles on London-Bridge . 