THE St. James's FROLIC ; OR , The Barbers Merry Meeting with the Poulterers B uxom [ e ] young Wife ; Who gave him a Gunae and store of Canary for her delicate Triming . To the Tune of , The Gentleman's Frolic . A LL you that delight to be merry , I'de have you to listen a while , You'll find before long you shall tarry , this Ditty will cause you to smile . A Barber not far from St. James is he is a brisk jocular Blade : This Tonsel , nay , likewise it seems is most ready and ' Cute at his Trade . He having a tool called Tomazor , the which now is very well known : It is a most delicate Razor , reserved for young Women alone . His fame being spread through the City , a Poulterers Wife came to him , Both beautiful Buxom and pretty , requesting the Barber to Trim A Woman , who had a desire to have a true touch of his skill : Said she there is many a admire your kindness , nay , [ love , ] and goodwill . The Charms of my amorous Beauty , I have a dull Husband does slight : Who never performs Family-Duty , but leaves me to languish all night . The Barber he said loving Neighbour here's one thing you must understand : Before I proceed to my Labour , I must have a Guniny in hand . I tell thee said she my sweet Honey , a Guinny I'll freely throw down : Beside thou shalt never want Money , so long as I am worth a Crown . He granted what she did require , he would not her humours control : Nay , what flesh and blood could deny her , who was such a Generous Soul. Away to the Tavern he haz her , for tasting of Liquour of Life : He took both his Wash Balls and Razor to Trim the young Poulterer's Wife Now she being Buxom and Merry , to think she in Pleasure should swim : She called for a quart of Canary , and Drank a full Bumper to him . The Barber he pledged her a Brimer , then chucking her under the Chin : Next minute he straightway did Trim her far better then ever she had been . A thousand soft Kisses he gave her , then said the young Poulterers Wife , Thou art I declare , the best Shaver that ever I knew in my Life . Thy skill does exceed Aristotle , for why , thou hast touched the right vein I'll call for the other brisk Bottle , if thou wilt but do it again . The Barber did tumble and tease her , in pleasure their Minutes they passed : Yet though he endeavoured to please her , she blunted his Razor at last . He kissed her and said my dear sweating my Courage begins to decay : Farewell till our next merry meeting , for now I no longer can stay . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown - Tavern in West-Smith-field . THE St. James's FROLIC ; OR , The Barbers Merry Meeting with the Poulterers B uxom [ e ] young Wife ; Who gave him a Gunae and store of Canary for her delicate Triming . To the Tune of , The Gentleman's Frolic . A LL you that delight to be merry , I'de have you to listen a while , You'll find before long you shall tarry , this Ditty will cause you to smile . A Barber not far from St. James is he is a brisk jocular Blade : This Tonsel , nay , likewise it seems is most ready and ' Cute at his Trade . He having a tool called Tomazor , the which now is very well known : It is a most delicate Razor , reserved for young Women alone . His fame being spread through the City , a Poulterers Wife came to him , Both beautiful Buxom and pretty , requesting the Barber to Trim A Woman , who had a desire to have a true touch of his skill : Said she there is many a admire your kindness , nay , [ love , ] and goodwill . The Charms of my amorous Beauty , I have a dull Husband does slight : Who never performs Family-Duty , but leaves me to languish all night . The Barber he said loving Neighbour here's one thing you must understand : Before I proceed to my Labour , I must have a Guniny in hand . I tell thee said she my sweet Honey , a Guinny I'll freely throw down : Beside thou shalt never want Money , so long as I am worth a Crown . He granted what she did require , he would not her humours control : Nay , what flesh and blood could deny her , who was such a Generous Soul. Away to the Tavern he haz her , for tasting of Liquour of Life : He took both his Wash Balls and Razor to Trim the young Poulterer's Wife Now she being Buxom and Merry , to think she in Pleasure should swim : She called for a quart of Canary , and Drank a full Bumper to him . The Barber he pledged her a Brimer , then chucking her under the Chin : Next minute he straightway did Trim her far better then ever she had been . A thousand soft Kisses he gave her , then said the young Poulterers Wife , Thou art I declare , the best Shaver that ever I knew in my Life . Thy skill does exceed Aristotle , for why , thou hast touched the right vein I'll call for the other brisk Bottle , if thou wilt but do it again . The Barber did tumble and tease her , in pleasure their Minutes they passed : Yet though he endeavoured to please her , she blunted his Razor at last . He kissed her and said my dear sweating my Courage begins to decay : Farewell till our next merry meeting , for now I no longer can stay . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown - Tavern in West-Smith-field . 