Amoret and Phillis . OR , Two to One is Odds. Strephon a fair and comely Lad , who made two Shepherdess's mad , Above the rest one did pursue P hillis by Name , what's that to you . Fair Amoret with love did die , Because Strephon did her love deny . To and Excellent new P lay-house Tune , called , While Amoret , etc A S Amoret with P hillis sat , one Evening on the Plain , And saw the charming S trephon wait , to tell the Nymph his pain , The threatening dangers to remove , she whispered in her ear , Ah phillis if you cannot love , the Shepherd do not hear , the Shepherd do not hear . None ever had so strange and art , his passion to convey , Into a listening Virgins heart , and steal her soul away . Fly , fly , betimes , before you give , occasion to your Fate , In vain , quoth she , in vain you strive , alas it's now too late , alas it's now too late . The Second Part , To the same Tune . TO He pretty Nymph with silence herd the utmost of her fate , And found from hope's she was debated , because 'twas now too late . While charming Strephon did pursue , his phillis with kind smiles , Says Amoret what shall I do , his face my soul beguiles , his face my soul beguiles . But with unwearied art she trys , her Strephon for to gain , While he as oft her love denys , and kills her with disdain . For phillis had his heart surprised , and in his breast did reign , All other Shepherds she despised , young S trephon was her swain , young Strephon was her swain . Found Amoret he bid adieu , who sighs and cries alone , Strephons unkind , and phillis too , to cause my endless moan . Thus without hope she did complain , till fate some pity gave , And gentle death relieved her pain , and took her to the grave , and took her to the grave . Now phillis revels day and night , with Strephon in her arms , And with each other take delight , both equal in their charms : Each smile from phillis does rejoice found Strephon every hour , While he does bless his happy choice , and worships loves great power , and worships loves great power . The Shepherds now together throng , their loves to celebrate , Each pretty Nymph with charming song do bless their happy Fate ; Their curious fingers Garlands make , to Crown this happy pair , Who for God - Cupid's honours sake , were fortunate and fair , were fortunate and fair . Now languishing fair phillis lies , under a shady Tree , And wantonly with cast up eyes , cries S trephon , S trephon , see What Pleasures does my Love afford , is there no other bliss , While S trephon gave her never a word , but gently did her kiss , but gently did her kiss . When such like pleasures ended were , then hand in hand they went , To see how well their flocks did fare , which gave them much content , Then with a Pipe he sweetly played , among the Kids and Goats , The pretty birds were not afraid , but warbled forth their Notes , but warbled forth their notes . Thus happily this couple live , no Prince such joys can find , No discontent can sorrows give , no griefs perplex the mind , Long may they live and happy still , and merrily time spend , Till age does both together kill , and brings them to their end . and brings them to their End. With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Amoret and Phillis . OR , Two to One is Odds. Strephon a fair and comely Lad , who made two Shepherdess's mad , Above the rest one did pursue P hillis by Name , what's that to you . Fair Amoret with love did die , Because Strephon did her love deny . To and Excellent new P lay-house Tune , called , While Amoret , etc A S Amoret with P hillis sat , one Evening on the Plain , And saw the charming S trephon wait , to tell the Nymph his pain , The threatening dangers to remove , she whispered in her ear , Ah phillis if you cannot love , the Shepherd do not hear , the Shepherd do not hear . None ever had so strange and art , his passion to convey , Into a listening Virgins heart , and steal her soul away . Fly , fly , betimes , before you give , occasion to your Fate , In vain , quoth she , in vain you strive , alas it's now too late , alas it's now too late . The Second Part , To the same Tune . TO He pretty Nymph with silence herd the utmost of her fate , And found from hope's she was debated , because 'twas now too late . While charming Strephon did pursue , his phillis with kind smiles , Says Amoret what shall I do , his face my soul beguiles , his face my soul beguiles . But with unwearied art she trys , her Strephon for to gain , While he as oft her love denys , and kills her with disdain . For phillis had his heart surprised , and in his breast did reign , All other Shepherds she despised , young S trephon was her swain , young Strephon was her swain . Found Amoret he bid adieu , who sighs and cries alone , Strephons unkind , and phillis too , to cause my endless moan . Thus without hope she did complain , till fate some pity gave , And gentle death relieved her pain , and took her to the grave , and took her to the grave . Now phillis revels day and night , with Strephon in her arms , And with each other take delight , both equal in their charms : Each smile from phillis does rejoice found Strephon every hour , While he does bless his happy choice , and worships loves great power , and worships loves great power . The Shepherds now together throng , their loves to celebrate , Each pretty Nymph with charming song do bless their happy Fate ; Their curious fingers Garlands make , to Crown this happy pair , Who for God - Cupid's honours sake , were fortunate and fair , were fortunate and fair . Now languishing fair phillis lies , under a shady Tree , And wantonly with cast up eyes , cries S trephon , S trephon , see What Pleasures does my Love afford , is there no other bliss , While S trephon gave her never a word , but gently did her kiss , but gently did her kiss . When such like pleasures ended were , then hand in hand they went , To see how well their flocks did fare , which gave them much content , Then with a Pipe he sweetly played , among the Kids and Goats , The pretty birds were not afraid , but warbled forth their Notes , but warbled forth their notes . Thus happily this couple live , no Prince such joys can find , No discontent can sorrows give , no griefs perplex the mind , Long may they live and happy still , and merrily time spend , Till age does both together kill , and brings them to their end . and brings them to their End. With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 