THE LONDON Lasses Lamentation : OR , Her Fear she should never be MARRIED . [ TO ] oh the Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . A Las I am in a Rage , and bitterly weep and cry , Because I'm nineteen years of age , yet cannot be married not I . No Gallant regards my moan , for Love I am like to die , It grieves my Heart to lie alone , yet cannot be Married not I . Mine Eyes do's like Fountains flow , as I on my Pillow lie , There's none knows what I undergo , yet cannot be married not I . There's Margery , Sue , and Kate , has Husbands with them to lie , Yet none regards my wretched State , yet cannot be married not I . Youngmen I must tell you true , I scorn to report a Lie , I am both fair and handsome too yet cannot be married not I . My Father is grey and old , And surely ever long will die , and though he'll leave me all his Gold , I cannot , etc Oh! this is my Grief and Care , the which I cannot pass by , To think I am my Father's Heir , yet cannot , etc I am in Distraction hurled , and do for a Husband cry , It's more to me than all the World , yet cannot , etc I am a poor Lovesick Girl , and ready with Grief to Die , I proffered Jewels , Gold and Pearl , yet cannot , etc In Silks I am still arrayed , and every New Fashion buy , Because I'm loath to die a Maid , yet cannot , etc As fine as the Queen of May , I flourish with gallantry , I wear my Topknot every day , yet cannot , etc I paint , and I powder still , to tempt all that I come nigh ; But yet let me do what I will , yet cannot , etc There's never a Lass in Town , for Beauty , can me come nigh ; But Fortune she has sent a Frow [ n ] I cannot be married not I . The Gold which I have in store , I valve no more than Clay , I'ld give all , had I ten times more [ re ] so I might be Married today . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back , THE LONDON Lasses Lamentation : OR , Her Fear she should never be MARRIED . [ TO ] oh the Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . A Las I am in a Rage , and bitterly weep and cry , Because I'm nineteen years of age , yet cannot be married not I . No Gallant regards my moan , for Love I am like to die , It grieves my Heart to lie alone , yet cannot be Married not I . Mine Eyes do's like Fountains flow , as I on my Pillow lie , There's none knows what I undergo , yet cannot be married not I . There's Margery , Sue , and Kate , has Husbands with them to lie , Yet none regards my wretched State , yet cannot be married not I . Youngmen I must tell you true , I scorn to report a Lie , I am both fair and handsome too yet cannot be married not I . My Father is grey and old , And surely ever long will die , and though he'll leave me all his Gold , I cannot , etc Oh! this is my Grief and Care , the which I cannot pass by , To think I am my Father's Heir , yet cannot , etc I am in Distraction hurled , and do for a Husband cry , It's more to me than all the World , yet cannot , etc I am a poor Lovesick Girl , and ready with Grief to Die , I proffered Jewels , Gold and Pearl , yet cannot , etc In Silks I am still arrayed , and every New Fashion buy , Because I'm loath to die a Maid , yet cannot , etc As fine as the Queen of May , I flourish with gallantry , I wear my Topknot every day , yet cannot , etc I paint , and I powder still , to tempt all that I come nigh ; But yet let me do what I will , yet cannot , etc There's never a Lass in Town , for Beauty , can me come nigh ; But Fortune she has sent a Frow [ n ] I cannot be married not I . The Gold which I have in store , I valve no more than Clay , I'ld give all , had I ten times more [ re ] so I might be Married today . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back , 