The tender Citizens , Or London Young men's Kindnesses . The maids complaint we'll hear no more Since we their beauty's do adore , And though they count young men unkind They shall them faithful Lovers find . Tune of , Tender hearts of etc . Y Oung men's hearts of London City Now are moved with grief and pity , For to hear you maids complain Never languish in your anguish We will ease you of your pain . For those pains that did torment you We will study to content you And rejoice each mournful heart Cruel Cupid made you stupid But we'll ease you of your smart . Every sighs that moved your passion Now shall turn to recreation You shall taste of Lovers bliss Though desire , burns like fire We will cool it with a kiss . Let us hear no more complaining Talk not of poor men's disdaining You shall ever find them true Be not grieved it's believed You shall bid your pains adieu . Radiant colours in your faces Shall be blessed with kind embraces Never did mortals prove so kind Though a woman's true to no man You shall prove we men are kind . While you trouble , our care's double And our love's not like a bubble Broke with every puff of wind It's beauty bright , is our delight And makes us so to love inclined . Maidens cruelly are voting We poor souls are still a doting Ever prizing charming eyes It's our desire , you should admire Poor men that you have made your prize . Cupid's darts are always whetting When the Lover sits a fretting And complains of rigid fate He says they're smiles that men beguiles And opens the Elizium gate . Pity , pity men so tender To your beauty's we surrender While your charms do make us bleed We love in vain , and you complain O this is cruelty indeed . Still in vain we strive to vanquish You your kindnesses relinquish Hoping in the end to gain Want of kisses crosses blisses We lament while you complain . O forbear your tyrannizing Now it's time leave off despising Love for love we ask no more But you invent , us to torment While we your images adore . Cease O cease to wrong your Lovers This your cruelty discovers Makes you be no longer fair When young men find you are unkind It brings them into great despair . You cruel fate , your power abate For beauty's conquest is too great And makes us hug our fettering chain Then know this true , I swear to you Young men do melt when maids complain . Printed for J. Wright , J Clark . W. Thackery , & amp ; T. Passenger . The tender Citizens , Or London Young men's Kindnesses . The maids complaint we'll hear no more Since we their beauty's do adore , And though they count young men unkind They shall them faithful Lovers find . Tune of , Tender hearts of etc . Y Oung men's hearts of London City Now are moved with grief and pity , For to hear you maids complain Never languish in your anguish We will ease you of your pain . For those pains that did torment you We will study to content you And rejoice each mournful heart Cruel Cupid made you stupid But we'll ease you of your smart . Every sighs that moved your passion Now shall turn to recreation You shall taste of Lovers bliss Though desire , burns like fire We will cool it with a kiss . Let us hear no more complaining Talk not of poor men's disdaining You shall ever find them true Be not grieved it's believed You shall bid your pains adieu . Radiant colours in your faces Shall be blessed with kind embraces Never did mortals prove so kind Though a woman's true to no man You shall prove we men are kind . While you trouble , our care's double And our love's not like a bubble Broke with every puff of wind It's beauty bright , is our delight And makes us so to love inclined . Maidens cruelly are voting We poor souls are still a doting Ever prizing charming eyes It's our desire , you should admire Poor men that you have made your prize . Cupid's darts are always whetting When the Lover sits a fretting And complains of rigid fate He says they're smiles that men beguiles And opens the Elizium gate . Pity , pity men so tender To your beauty's we surrender While your charms do make us bleed We love in vain , and you complain O this is cruelty indeed . Still in vain we strive to vanquish You your kindnesses relinquish Hoping in the end to gain Want of kisses crosses blisses We lament while you complain . O forbear your tyrannizing Now it's time leave off despising Love for love we ask no more But you invent , us to torment While we your images adore . Cease O cease to wrong your Lovers This your cruelty discovers Makes you be no longer fair When young men find you are unkind It brings them into great despair . You cruel fate , your power abate For beauty's conquest is too great And makes us hug our fettering chain Then know this true , I swear to you Young men do melt when maids complain . Printed for J. Wright , J Clark . W. Thackery , & amp ; T. Passenger . 