The Sorrowful CITTIZEN , Or , The Courageous PLOW-MAN . With the Witty Answer of a Country Damosel . You Citizens I pray beware , that does this Story hear ; Dote not too much on Beauty fair , lest this may prove your share . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R. P. A Londoner into the Country went , To visit his Tenants , and gather in Rend ; He on a brave Gelding did gallantly Ride , With Boots and with Spurs , and a Sword by his side Because that the Inn keepers they will not score , He lined his Pockets with Silver good store : And he wore a Wigg cost three Guinnies and more , His Hat was cockt up Sir , behind and before . Thus like a great Gallant that was Alamode , Upon his stout Gelding he Galloped the Road , He came to and Inn Sir , where he did allight , Resolving to rest there , and tarry all Night : There was a fair Damsel her Name it was Priss , The Londoner proffered to give her a Kiss ; and would fain have been doing the thing you may guess But she scornfully said she was no London Miss . With Eloquent Speeches this Gallant did Woo , And proffered her Guinnies , but this would not do ; I pray you be Civil , good Sir , she replied , And tempt me no more , for you must be denied : My Credit I tell you , I never will stain , And therefore good Sir , I would have you refrain , To proffer your Guinnies , for all is in vain , I slight them and you Sir , with scorn and disdain . Good Sir , what a rout and a racket you make , Would Robin the Plowman was here for your sake ; He will quickly make you to altar your Note , I would not be one that should be in your Coat ; For all your brave alls , you are something too bold , My Chastity is not to be bought nor sold ; I care not a fig for your Silver and Gold , I pray you be Civil , and let go your hold . Why , do you imagine I will be afraid Of such a course Coxcombly Country Blade ? For should he come in and give me a cross word , I'll make him to taste of a piece of my Sword : For I am a Person of Noble Degree , Then prithee sweet Damsel be ruled by me , He dare not come in if he chance but to see That I am a Kissing and Courting of thee . Cot-zo , quoth the Maiden , pray who have we here ! Or what is the cause that he should stand in fear ? Before that the Maiden could say any more , Stout Robin himself he came in at the Door ; To him the whole Story she did declare , The Londoner being amazed , did stare ; He would have been hid , but he could not tell where , For he was catched napping as Moss catched his Mare . The point of your Sword Sir , you said I should taste , But first let me tell you , your shoulders i'll baste ; With that he lent him a sturdy stout stroke , His Sword and his Noddle together he broke ; Though I go in Leather , and you wear fine Close , I will have my ture-Love in spite of your Nose ; And then he laid on , and redoubled his blows , Ten Guinnies to Robin the Plowman he throws . Forbear honest Plowman , for I do protest , What ever I said then it was but in jest ; Then prithee Good-fellow , let's finish this strife , And take up those Guinnies and pardon my life : The weight of your blows I do heartily rue , Then prithee sweet Maiden , see what you can do , Persuade him and here is five Guinnies for you , To buy you a Gown and a Petticoat too . She took up the Gold and put it in her Purse , And running to Robin , said she , it is thus , He crying for pity , now lay no more and , But let it appear you're a Merciful Man : Said Robin , begone then , and come no more here , Away he packed off , thus the Coast he did clear , He sent him away with a Flay in his Ear , This Plowman he lives but in Somersetshire . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass , on LONDON-BRIDGE . The Sorrowful CITTIZEN , Or , The Courageous PLOW-MAN . With the Witty Answer of a Country Damosel . You Citizens I pray beware , that does this Story hear ; Dote not too much on Beauty fair , lest this may prove your share . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R. P. A Londoner into the Country went , To visit his Tenants , and gather in Rend ; He on a brave Gelding did gallantly Ride , With Boots and with Spurs , and a Sword by his side Because that the Inn keepers they will not score , He lined his Pockets with Silver good store : And he wore a Wigg cost three Guinnies and more , His Hat was cockt up Sir , behind and before . Thus like a great Gallant that was Alamode , Upon his stout Gelding he Galloped the Road , He came to and Inn Sir , where he did allight , Resolving to rest there , and tarry all Night : There was a fair Damsel her Name it was Priss , The Londoner proffered to give her a Kiss ; and would fain have been doing the thing you may guess But she scornfully said she was no London Miss . With Eloquent Speeches this Gallant did Woo , And proffered her Guinnies , but this would not do ; I pray you be Civil , good Sir , she replied , And tempt me no more , for you must be denied : My Credit I tell you , I never will stain , And therefore good Sir , I would have you refrain , To proffer your Guinnies , for all is in vain , I slight them and you Sir , with scorn and disdain . Good Sir , what a rout and a racket you make , Would Robin the Plowman was here for your sake ; He will quickly make you to altar your Note , I would not be one that should be in your Coat ; For all your brave alls , you are something too bold , My Chastity is not to be bought nor sold ; I care not a fig for your Silver and Gold , I pray you be Civil , and let go your hold . Why , do you imagine I will be afraid Of such a course Coxcombly Country Blade ? For should he come in and give me a cross word , I'll make him to taste of a piece of my Sword : For I am a Person of Noble Degree , Then prithee sweet Damsel be ruled by me , He dare not come in if he chance but to see That I am a Kissing and Courting of thee . Cot-zo , quoth the Maiden , pray who have we here ! Or what is the cause that he should stand in fear ? Before that the Maiden could say any more , Stout Robin himself he came in at the Door ; To him the whole Story she did declare , The Londoner being amazed , did stare ; He would have been hid , but he could not tell where , For he was catched napping as Moss catched his Mare . The point of your Sword Sir , you said I should taste , But first let me tell you , your shoulders i'll baste ; With that he lent him a sturdy stout stroke , His Sword and his Noddle together he broke ; Though I go in Leather , and you wear fine Close , I will have my ture-Love in spite of your Nose ; And then he laid on , and redoubled his blows , Ten Guinnies to Robin the Plowman he throws . Forbear honest Plowman , for I do protest , What ever I said then it was but in jest ; Then prithee Good-fellow , let's finish this strife , And take up those Guinnies and pardon my life : The weight of your blows I do heartily rue , Then prithee sweet Maiden , see what you can do , Persuade him and here is five Guinnies for you , To buy you a Gown and a Petticoat too . She took up the Gold and put it in her Purse , And running to Robin , said she , it is thus , He crying for pity , now lay no more and , But let it appear you're a Merciful Man : Said Robin , begone then , and come no more here , Away he packed off , thus the Coast he did clear , He sent him away with a Flay in his Ear , This Plowman he lives but in Somersetshire . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass , on LONDON-BRIDGE . 