The Young-Mans Answer to the Merry Maid of Shoreditch her Resolution . She says the single Life it is the best , It is so with a Man , it is confessed : If he marry a Woman of the worse sort , No one will give her a good report . So Youngmen pray you now be wise , You see what some Maids can devise ; They are as lose as Water in the River , They would undo a thousand Men together . The Tune is , Hold Buckle and Thong together . WORSER O you see how basely this young Maid , against youngmen that she does clatter : For her scornful words that she hath said , I do intend now for to fit her : Young Maids they will both swear and lie , and ugly words sometime they'll scatter , But youngmen you must be very wise , and let them fret , it is no matter . Youngmen you must not be too kind , for if you be they will undo you ; And never let them know your mind , for then they'll seek to overthrow you : Till you have proved them to the full , that you may know their love the better , And never let them have their will , if they fret a while it is no matter . They say they can live single well , it is but till they can be fitted : But they can dissemble , I can tell , and they'll haved as soon as they can get it : You may consider youngmen first , they're as false as Dice and Cards toth' matter , They're quickly wone , and sooner lost , believe not every Maidens clatter . There was a Maid the other day , its but a while since she came to London , That married a Feltmaker they say , and she proved with-child then with a young one . So often youngmen are beguiled , when they run on , and believe their clatter . They have ways enough to beguile a man , if they fret a while it is no matter . The second part , to the same Tune . A Nd yet they'll say how bravely they live single , if they never marry : When youngmen see it every day , that one or other does miscarry : I wonder Maids will be such fools , to make it good when a bad matter ; But Youngmen never be overruled , but let them fret , it is no matter . If you give them any little affront , that they do think is disloyal : Then night and day they then will hunt , to put another to the Trial : They are as false as rotten Wood , I scorn a jot for to belie them : Such as those will never do a man good , that Man's undone that's tied to try them . But yet there's many and honest Maid , that is both true and loyal-hearted : It's pity they should be badly wed , that good husbands and they should be parted . But dissembling Damosels have a care , they're like a Bog that's ever sinking : They'll bring a Youngman in a snare , they'll make them blind instead of winking . There is a great difference in Maids , the better sort I do commend them , But for dissembling Girls that are misled , no man is worthy to befriend them : But youngmen you must now be wise , to pick and choose to gain the better ; And do not believe every Maids lies , but let them fret , it is no matter . Now youngmen all I wish you well , be careful pray you in your choosing ; Let the worse sort stay a while and mend , and in good honest Maids make no refusing : For and honest Girl is worth her weight in Pearl , when and ill-bred Girl will lie and flatter : By their carriage you may partly tell their condition , they'll make known the matter . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guilt-Spur-Street . The Young-Mans Answer to the Merry Maid of Shoreditch her Resolution . She says the single Life it is the best , It is so with a Man , it is confessed : If he marry a Woman of the worse sort , No one will give her a good report . So Youngmen pray you now be wise , You see what some Maids can devise ; They are as lose as Water in the River , They would undo a thousand Men together . The Tune is , Hold Buckle and Thong together . WORSER O you see how basely this young Maid , against youngmen that she does clatter : For her scornful words that she hath said , I do intend now for to fit her : Young Maids they will both swear and lie , and ugly words sometime they'll scatter , But youngmen you must be very wise , and let them fret , it is no matter . Youngmen you must not be too kind , for if you be they will undo you ; And never let them know your mind , for then they'll seek to overthrow you : Till you have proved them to the full , that you may know their love the better , And never let them have their will , if they fret a while it is no matter . They say they can live single well , it is but till they can be fitted : But they can dissemble , I can tell , and they'll haved as soon as they can get it : You may consider youngmen first , they're as false as Dice and Cards toth' matter , They're quickly wone , and sooner lost , believe not every Maidens clatter . There was a Maid the other day , its but a while since she came to London , That married a Feltmaker they say , and she proved with-child then with a young one . So often youngmen are beguiled , when they run on , and believe their clatter . They have ways enough to beguile a man , if they fret a while it is no matter . The second part , to the same Tune . A Nd yet they'll say how bravely they live single , if they never marry : When youngmen see it every day , that one or other does miscarry : I wonder Maids will be such fools , to make it good when a bad matter ; But Youngmen never be overruled , but let them fret , it is no matter . If you give them any little affront , that they do think is disloyal : Then night and day they then will hunt , to put another to the Trial : They are as false as rotten Wood , I scorn a jot for to belie them : Such as those will never do a man good , that Man's undone that's tied to try them . But yet there's many and honest Maid , that is both true and loyal-hearted : It's pity they should be badly wed , that good husbands and they should be parted . But dissembling Damosels have a care , they're like a Bog that's ever sinking : They'll bring a Youngman in a snare , they'll make them blind instead of winking . There is a great difference in Maids , the better sort I do commend them , But for dissembling Girls that are misled , no man is worthy to befriend them : But youngmen you must now be wise , to pick and choose to gain the better ; And do not believe every Maids lies , but let them fret , it is no matter . Now youngmen all I wish you well , be careful pray you in your choosing ; Let the worse sort stay a while and mend , and in good honest Maids make no refusing : For and honest Girl is worth her weight in Pearl , when and ill-bred Girl will lie and flatter : By their carriage you may partly tell their condition , they'll make known the matter . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guilt-Spur-Street . 