The MAIDENS Moan , OR , Her sad and sorrowful Complaint for want of a Husband . Let not my wishes be withstood , young men some pity show ; You know that I am Flesh and Blood Alas ! as well as you . To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . Or , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R. P. I am a poor Maiden in woeful distress , Still daily tormented I needs must confess ; To see young Maids married , and I lie alone , Oh what is the reason that I can get none , I pine and I fret my self out of my Wit , To see many married , and I a Maid yet , Which makes me to languish , to sighs and make moan , To see thousands married , and I lie alone . I shall be undone if some young man with speed , He comes not to help a poor Maid in her need : I tumble and toss in my Lodging all night , And wish to partake of that pleasant delight , Which other young Women enjoys in their bed , But woe be to me that shall never be sped , It makes me to languish , to sighs and make moan , To see , etc When I see young women give each child the breast , Oh then in my heart I am sorely oppressed , And though I do hide it as much as I can , In private I weep for the help of a man : If some speedy course be not taken I say , It is to be feared I shall then go astray ; For here do I languish , nay , sighs , and make moan , To see , etc Each morning when I am a making the Bed , A thousand strange fancies deep run in my head , My Vitals does tingle , I scratch and I tear And wish that some pretty young gallant was there That would help a maiden out at a dead lift For never was Creature more put to the shift , Which makes me to languish , to sighs , and make moan , To see thousands married , and I lie alone . Good people I tell you the cause of my grief , It is because youngmen won't yield me relief ; In my best apparel I daily appear , And yet notwithstanding I'm never the near , In Bed I am knawing the sheets all the night , To think of the comfort I'de have if I might ; And thus do I languish , nay , sighs , and make moan , To see , etc Of all Maids in London my luck is the worst , With sorrow my heart it is ready to burst , To think that no young man will make me his Bride , Although I am youthful and handsome beside : I think I was born in the Arse of the Moon , That never a one will take me in my bloom , I weep and I languish , nap , sighs and make moan , To see , etc My longing will kill me I greatly do fear If I be not married before the next year ; Therefore if some Youth will take pity on me , My heart from this sorrow would soon be set free : Had I but my Will , I would marry to morrow . A man of mine own ; then I need not to borrow ; But this will not be , here I sighs and make moan , To see , etc No Damsel , I'm certain , was ever so oppressed , For want of a Husband I take little rest , Sometime in a slumber I dream of the bliss , But when I awaken what torment is this : To find that it was but a mere golden Dream , My passion does rise too a far worse extreme ; I sighs , and I weep , and make pitiful moan , To see , etc There's Dolly and Bridget , with Nancy and Kate , Nay Susan and Sarah all married of late , Then what is the reason that I cannot have The thing I so often desire and crave ; I'm sure I'm as handsome as any of these And would be as willing a Husband to please , But here I am forced to sighs and make moan , Because thousands are married and I lie alone . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . The MAIDENS Moan , OR , Her sad and sorrowful Complaint for want of a Husband . Let not my wishes be withstood , young men some pity show ; You know that I am Flesh and Blood Alas ! as well as you . To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . Or , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R. P. I am a poor Maiden in woeful distress , Still daily tormented I needs must confess ; To see young Maids married , and I lie alone , Oh what is the reason that I can get none , I pine and I fret my self out of my Wit , To see many married , and I a Maid yet , Which makes me to languish , to sighs and make moan , To see thousands married , and I lie alone . I shall be undone if some young man with speed , He comes not to help a poor Maid in her need : I tumble and toss in my Lodging all night , And wish to partake of that pleasant delight , Which other young Women enjoys in their bed , But woe be to me that shall never be sped , It makes me to languish , to sighs and make moan , To see , etc When I see young women give each child the breast , Oh then in my heart I am sorely oppressed , And though I do hide it as much as I can , In private I weep for the help of a man : If some speedy course be not taken I say , It is to be feared I shall then go astray ; For here do I languish , nay , sighs , and make moan , To see , etc Each morning when I am a making the Bed , A thousand strange fancies deep run in my head , My Vitals does tingle , I scratch and I tear And wish that some pretty young gallant was there That would help a maiden out at a dead lift For never was Creature more put to the shift , Which makes me to languish , to sighs , and make moan , To see thousands married , and I lie alone . Good people I tell you the cause of my grief , It is because youngmen won't yield me relief ; In my best apparel I daily appear , And yet notwithstanding I'm never the near , In Bed I am knawing the sheets all the night , To think of the comfort I'de have if I might ; And thus do I languish , nay , sighs , and make moan , To see , etc Of all Maids in London my luck is the worst , With sorrow my heart it is ready to burst , To think that no young man will make me his Bride , Although I am youthful and handsome beside : I think I was born in the Arse of the Moon , That never a one will take me in my bloom , I weep and I languish , nap , sighs and make moan , To see , etc My longing will kill me I greatly do fear If I be not married before the next year ; Therefore if some Youth will take pity on me , My heart from this sorrow would soon be set free : Had I but my Will , I would marry to morrow . A man of mine own ; then I need not to borrow ; But this will not be , here I sighs and make moan , To see , etc No Damsel , I'm certain , was ever so oppressed , For want of a Husband I take little rest , Sometime in a slumber I dream of the bliss , But when I awaken what torment is this : To find that it was but a mere golden Dream , My passion does rise too a far worse extreme ; I sighs , and I weep , and make pitiful moan , To see , etc There's Dolly and Bridget , with Nancy and Kate , Nay Susan and Sarah all married of late , Then what is the reason that I cannot have The thing I so often desire and crave ; I'm sure I'm as handsome as any of these And would be as willing a Husband to please , But here I am forced to sighs and make moan , Because thousands are married and I lie alone . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . 