The Shoemaker Outwitted : OR , The Gentlecraft's Man cunningly Catched by a Crafty Lass of SURRY . To the Tune of , Love's a sweet Passion : or , Found Boy , etc G Ood People I pray now attend to my moan , I'm and honest Shoemaker , it's very well known , Who was minded to marry my Fortune to raise ; On the charming young Beauty's I often would gaze : I was nice in my choosing , dear Friends , I declare , And at length I was married , the more is my care . In Surry I courted a dozen or two , Finding them without Portions , I bid them adieu , For ambitious of Money I was evermore , Which above any Beauty I still did adore : Yet at length I was fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And am married , the more is my sorrow and care . I knowing myself a brave Crispin by trade , Was unwilling my Fortune to spoil and degrade ; For to wed a poor Servant my thoughts I did scorn , Since a Shooemanker's Son is a Gentleman born : Yet at length I was fit , dear Friends , I declare , And am married , the more is my sorrow and care . The News being spread through the neighbouring Towns , That I would take no less then two hundred Pounds With a Wife , and she must be a Beauty likewise , Rosy Checks and fair delicate sparkling Eyes : Yet Faith I was fitted , dear Friends I declare , And I'm married , the more is my sorrow and care . It was my hard fortune to light of a Lass , Who had learned her trade , she for currant did pass For to be one that had store of Silver and Gold , Yet no more then three Farthings I ever did behold : Thus I faith now I am fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And I'm married , the more is my sorrow and care . The thoughts of her Portion soon puffed me with Pride , I was straightways for keeping my Gelding to ride Out a Hunting , and likewise have men at command , And was thinking of purchasing Houses and Land ; This was building a Castles aloft in the air , For she had but three Farthings , dear Friends , I declare . I found I was cunningly catched in a snare , For she had not a Garment nor Smicket to wear , Only what she had borrowed to make her look gay , And the People came for them the very next day : Thus I says I am fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And am married , the more is my sorrow and care . She laughs in Derision and calls me her Fool , And declares that I have but a pitiful Tool ; Therefore she swears she wll make me a hornified Knight , Yet if any one does that it must be for spite ; For she is a mere Tatterdemalion I swear , I am married , the more is my sorrow and care . I see my own folly , now , now , it's too late , Would I had took poor Nancy , Joan , Bridget , or Kate , Then with Blessings and Comforts I might have been crowned , But I aimed at a Portion of three hundred Pound , Therefore I am well fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And I'm married , the more is my sorrow and care . You Bachelors pray now take warning by me , If you marry a Fortune , whoever she be , Get the Money before you to wed are inclined , Or perhaps it may come when the Devil is blind ; For I have been thus fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And am married , the more is my sorrow and care . Licensed and Entered according to Order . London : Printed for J. Bissel , in West-smithfield . The Shoemaker Outwitted : OR , The Gentlecraft's Man cunningly Catched by a Crafty Lass of SURRY . To the Tune of , Love's a sweet Passion : or , Found Boy , etc G Ood People I pray now attend to my moan , I'm and honest Shoemaker , it's very well known , Who was minded to marry my Fortune to raise ; On the charming young Beauty's I often would gaze : I was nice in my choosing , dear Friends , I declare , And at length I was married , the more is my care . In Surry I courted a dozen or two , Finding them without Portions , I bid them adieu , For ambitious of Money I was evermore , Which above any Beauty I still did adore : Yet at length I was fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And am married , the more is my sorrow and care . I knowing myself a brave Crispin by trade , Was unwilling my Fortune to spoil and degrade ; For to wed a poor Servant my thoughts I did scorn , Since a Shooemanker's Son is a Gentleman born : Yet at length I was fit , dear Friends , I declare , And am married , the more is my sorrow and care . The News being spread through the neighbouring Towns , That I would take no less then two hundred Pounds With a Wife , and she must be a Beauty likewise , Rosy Checks and fair delicate sparkling Eyes : Yet Faith I was fitted , dear Friends I declare , And I'm married , the more is my sorrow and care . It was my hard fortune to light of a Lass , Who had learned her trade , she for currant did pass For to be one that had store of Silver and Gold , Yet no more then three Farthings I ever did behold : Thus I faith now I am fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And I'm married , the more is my sorrow and care . The thoughts of her Portion soon puffed me with Pride , I was straightways for keeping my Gelding to ride Out a Hunting , and likewise have men at command , And was thinking of purchasing Houses and Land ; This was building a Castles aloft in the air , For she had but three Farthings , dear Friends , I declare . I found I was cunningly catched in a snare , For she had not a Garment nor Smicket to wear , Only what she had borrowed to make her look gay , And the People came for them the very next day : Thus I says I am fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And am married , the more is my sorrow and care . She laughs in Derision and calls me her Fool , And declares that I have but a pitiful Tool ; Therefore she swears she wll make me a hornified Knight , Yet if any one does that it must be for spite ; For she is a mere Tatterdemalion I swear , I am married , the more is my sorrow and care . I see my own folly , now , now , it's too late , Would I had took poor Nancy , Joan , Bridget , or Kate , Then with Blessings and Comforts I might have been crowned , But I aimed at a Portion of three hundred Pound , Therefore I am well fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And I'm married , the more is my sorrow and care . You Bachelors pray now take warning by me , If you marry a Fortune , whoever she be , Get the Money before you to wed are inclined , Or perhaps it may come when the Devil is blind ; For I have been thus fitted , dear Friends , I declare , And am married , the more is my sorrow and care . Licensed and Entered according to Order . London : Printed for J. Bissel , in West-smithfield . 