The Nine Maidens Fury TO THE Hartford-Shire Man. Who would have gelded him , but that his Sweetheart Susan coming in , begged his pardon . Tune of , She god money byed . This may be printed , R.P. TO Here was a youngman lived of late but Twenty Miles from London , Who by nine Maidens cruel hate poor Lad he was near undone . For Kate and Molly , with Nan and Dolly , they scornfully beheld him ; Nay likewise Bess , with Jone no less , all vowed that they would geld him . The reason why they would do so , he always would be fooling Where ever he did come or go , His Courage wanted cooling : He was for trimming both maids & amp ; women they ran if they beheld him : But now stout Doll , with Kate , and Moll , are all resolved to geld him . They came unto him with a grace , it was one morning early , And in a most convenient place they seized upon him fairly . Then Kate and Dolly , with Nan & amp ; Molly , though he was strong , they held him , While Jone and Bess , with Prue and Priss , did vow and swear they geld him . A Gainst them all he could not stand , although he was full hardy ; Now they had god him under hand , each Lass did spend her Verdy . Says Doll we'll do it , and make him rue it , and thus by strength they held him , While Jone and Bess , with Prue and Priss , did vow and swear they geld him . He feared then to loose his life ; they over him did swagger , And Jone pulled out the fatal Knife , as long as any Dagger . Although he see it , he could not flee it so strong and stout they held him : Thus Jone and Bess , with Prue and Priss , did vow and swear they geld him . But mark , before they did begin this youngman's utter Ruin , His true Love Susan she came in , and saw what they were doing : Said she pray pity my doleful Ditty , while she with grief beheld him ; Said she , sweet Jone . let him alone , I prithee do not geld him . Take pity of a harmless Maid , and do not be too cruel : Then with a sighs and sob she said , he is my Dearest Jewel ; Then don't abuse him , but pray excuse him , her words with comfort filled him : Then says Doll , and so says Moll , we will forbear to geld him . When Kate and Nancy they beheld poor Susans sad condition , They all were then with pity filled , and granted her Petition . Then he was merry , both brisk and airy , with joy sweet Susan filled him , Jone vowed she'd save what Sue should have therefore she would not geld him . Printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . Where any Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of new old Songs . The Nine Maidens Fury TO THE Hartford-Shire Man. Who would have gelded him , but that his Sweetheart Susan coming in , begged his pardon . Tune of , She god money byed . This may be printed , R.P. TO Here was a youngman lived of late but Twenty Miles from London , Who by nine Maidens cruel hate poor Lad he was near undone . For Kate and Molly , with Nan and Dolly , they scornfully beheld him ; Nay likewise Bess , with Jone no less , all vowed that they would geld him . The reason why they would do so , he always would be fooling Where ever he did come or go , His Courage wanted cooling : He was for trimming both maids & amp ; women they ran if they beheld him : But now stout Doll , with Kate , and Moll , are all resolved to geld him . They came unto him with a grace , it was one morning early , And in a most convenient place they seized upon him fairly . Then Kate and Dolly , with Nan & amp ; Molly , though he was strong , they held him , While Jone and Bess , with Prue and Priss , did vow and swear they geld him . A Gainst them all he could not stand , although he was full hardy ; Now they had god him under hand , each Lass did spend her Verdy . Says Doll we'll do it , and make him rue it , and thus by strength they held him , While Jone and Bess , with Prue and Priss , did vow and swear they geld him . He feared then to loose his life ; they over him did swagger , And Jone pulled out the fatal Knife , as long as any Dagger . Although he see it , he could not flee it so strong and stout they held him : Thus Jone and Bess , with Prue and Priss , did vow and swear they geld him . But mark , before they did begin this youngman's utter Ruin , His true Love Susan she came in , and saw what they were doing : Said she pray pity my doleful Ditty , while she with grief beheld him ; Said she , sweet Jone . let him alone , I prithee do not geld him . Take pity of a harmless Maid , and do not be too cruel : Then with a sighs and sob she said , he is my Dearest Jewel ; Then don't abuse him , but pray excuse him , her words with comfort filled him : Then says Doll , and so says Moll , we will forbear to geld him . When Kate and Nancy they beheld poor Susans sad condition , They all were then with pity filled , and granted her Petition . Then he was merry , both brisk and airy , with joy sweet Susan filled him , Jone vowed she'd save what Sue should have therefore she would not geld him . Printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . Where any Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of new old Songs . 