The Trappaned Maultster ; OR , The Crafty Ale-Wife . Plainly showing how a Maultster in the County of Harford , did earnestly solicit and honest A le-Wife who being a good comely woman that she would consent to his will , which she often refused , but seeing he was the more urgent , she at last seemingly consented , and appointed the time when he might come , which at length proved contrary to his expectation , as you may find by these following Lines . To the Tune of , A Fig for France . WORSER Raw near and here attend a while , This pleasant jest will make you sime , The truth of it you need not fear , It lately done in Harford-shire : A lusty Maultster there did dwell That loved a handsome woman well : But now attend I pray and mind , How he was fitted in his kind . And Alehouse keeper living near , That bought his Malt , & amp ; brewed his beer , This Maultster he was kind and free , [ ? ] trusted him most willingly With twenty pounds in Malt and more , He let him have upon the score , But Moultsters pray you have a care For fear they Catch you in a snare Upon a day it chanced so , The Maultster to his house did go , It seems it was his full design , Expecting to receive some Coin : The Hostis beautiful and fair , The Maultsters senses did ensnare , His very heart it did surprise , He see sweet Babies in her eyes . O then he soon did move his Suit , And giving her a kind salute , Saying , if thoul'e be kind to me , I'll be a constant friend to thee , Then prithee do not me deny , Be free and willingly comply , Thy very senses I will drowned . In mutial joys that shall abound . Your promises are all in vain , My credit I will never stain , Nor be by any fancies fed , Thus to defile my marriage bed , Quoth , he thou [ nee ] d'st not fear disgeace , There's none but thee and I in place , She hearing him so earnestly , Quoth she i'll fit you by and by . And now she makes it all her care , How she might trap him in a snare , If I must to your will give way , Then listen now to what I say , Next day my husband must ride out , Then prithre come , and without doubt , Till then pray set sour heart at rest , The Maulster chought he had been blessed . The Maulster then went home we find , And with a sweet cintented mind , To him he thought she would be true , But she was chaste and modest too , She to her husband then did call , And telling him the truth of all , And then said she , be ruled by me , We'll trounce him for his Villainy . A cunning Plot she did invent , To which her husband gave consent , Next day with joy the Maulster came , For to embrace this comely dame : She to her Chamber did repair , As if he had been welcome there : The Maulster strips of all his Clothes And strait into the Bed he goes . He thought she'd a came to him But she intended no such thing , The Maulster said sweet come to bed , We'll hornifie thy husbands head : These words no sooner had been soid , But he rushed in , he was betrayed , Quoth he thou slave whet makes the here , For this i'll make you pay full dear . By head and ears he pulled him out , And giving him a total rout , But seeing then how he way fooled , The Maulsters courage then was cooled , He banged him then from side to side , Thou slave must I br hornified Some of my fury thou shalt know , ever you out of this room do go . Said he , I now will Geld you here , Which put the Maulster in great fear , He down upon his knees did fallen , And drd to him for mercy call ; Oh pardon me and let me go , I will forgive you all you owe , Oh that is twenty pound you know , Pray do not seek my overthrow . Well since you beg so heartily , I now will quit and set you free , By falling on your marrow bones , I do protest you have saved your stones , Your promises are very large , Come write me now a full discharge , And for the time that does remain , Let me not catch you here again . And thus they quit all the score , And turned the M aulster out of door , And thus alas he was decoyed , And paid for what he never enjoyed , You Maulsters all both far and near , That does this dreadful story hear , Strive to amend your wicked lives , And be you honest to your Wives . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Trappaned Maultster ; OR , The Crafty Ale-Wife . Plainly showing how a Maultster in the County of Harford , did earnestly solicit and honest A le-Wife who being a good comely woman that she would consent to his will , which she often refused , but seeing he was the more urgent , she at last seemingly consented , and appointed the time when he might come , which at length proved contrary to his expectation , as you may find by these following Lines . To the Tune of , A Fig for France . WORSER Raw near and here attend a while , This pleasant jest will make you sime , The truth of it you need not fear , It lately done in Harford-shire : A lusty Maultster there did dwell That loved a handsome woman well : But now attend I pray and mind , How he was fitted in his kind . And Alehouse keeper living near , That bought his Malt , & amp ; brewed his beer , This Maultster he was kind and free , [ ? ] trusted him most willingly With twenty pounds in Malt and more , He let him have upon the score , But Moultsters pray you have a care For fear they Catch you in a snare Upon a day it chanced so , The Maultster to his house did go , It seems it was his full design , Expecting to receive some Coin : The Hostis beautiful and fair , The Maultsters senses did ensnare , His very heart it did surprise , He see sweet Babies in her eyes . O then he soon did move his Suit , And giving her a kind salute , Saying , if thoul'e be kind to me , I'll be a constant friend to thee , Then prithee do not me deny , Be free and willingly comply , Thy very senses I will drowned . In mutial joys that shall abound . Your promises are all in vain , My credit I will never stain , Nor be by any fancies fed , Thus to defile my marriage bed , Quoth , he thou [ nee ] d'st not fear disgeace , There's none but thee and I in place , She hearing him so earnestly , Quoth she i'll fit you by and by . And now she makes it all her care , How she might trap him in a snare , If I must to your will give way , Then listen now to what I say , Next day my husband must ride out , Then prithre come , and without doubt , Till then pray set sour heart at rest , The Maulster chought he had been blessed . The Maulster then went home we find , And with a sweet cintented mind , To him he thought she would be true , But she was chaste and modest too , She to her husband then did call , And telling him the truth of all , And then said she , be ruled by me , We'll trounce him for his Villainy . A cunning Plot she did invent , To which her husband gave consent , Next day with joy the Maulster came , For to embrace this comely dame : She to her Chamber did repair , As if he had been welcome there : The Maulster strips of all his Clothes And strait into the Bed he goes . He thought she'd a came to him But she intended no such thing , The Maulster said sweet come to bed , We'll hornifie thy husbands head : These words no sooner had been soid , But he rushed in , he was betrayed , Quoth he thou slave whet makes the here , For this i'll make you pay full dear . By head and ears he pulled him out , And giving him a total rout , But seeing then how he way fooled , The Maulsters courage then was cooled , He banged him then from side to side , Thou slave must I br hornified Some of my fury thou shalt know , ever you out of this room do go . Said he , I now will Geld you here , Which put the Maulster in great fear , He down upon his knees did fallen , And drd to him for mercy call ; Oh pardon me and let me go , I will forgive you all you owe , Oh that is twenty pound you know , Pray do not seek my overthrow . Well since you beg so heartily , I now will quit and set you free , By falling on your marrow bones , I do protest you have saved your stones , Your promises are very large , Come write me now a full discharge , And for the time that does remain , Let me not catch you here again . And thus they quit all the score , And turned the M aulster out of door , And thus alas he was decoyed , And paid for what he never enjoyed , You Maulsters all both far and near , That does this dreadful story hear , Strive to amend your wicked lives , And be you honest to your Wives . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 