The Doctor and Beggar-Wench OR , The Barkshire FROLLICK . Since he his Credit thus did stain , in doing thus amiss , He'll never do the like again , he has enough of this . To the Tune of , The Ladies of London . TO Here was a Doctor that lives in Barkshire , of whom I will give a Relation , Such a like Frolic you seldom shall hear , not once in and Age , in the Nation : As he , indeed , was going one day to gather Herbs for his distilling , He met a Beggar-wench then by the way , and proffered to give her a shilling . If that thou wouldst but let me lay thee down that I may salute and embrace thee , Being a Person of worthy Renown , I cannot be thought to disgrace thee ; Prithee be kind , and be not afraid , for if that thou would but be willing , I do intend to be noble , he said , behold I will give thee a shilling . I am a Beggar-wench , Sir , she replied , and therefore I doubt your mistaken ; See you my Wallet hangs down by my side , it's full of Bred , Butter and Bacon . Every one , said he , has their Lot , and therefore my dear let's to Billing As for thy Calling , I valve it not , my Girl I will give thee a shilling . This noble Doctor such kindness did show as he in his Arms did enfold her ; Sir , said the Beggar-wench , where shall we go , the Doctor immediately told her : Under this Hedge we'll have our delight , to this she was presently willing ; But they was suddenly put to the flight , as soon as he gave her the shilling . For a great number of women and men did happily chance to espy them , As to a feast they were traveling then ? and yet before they could come nigh them , The Doctor run away in much shame , the thoughts of this Crime was so killing ; As for the Beggar-wench she did the same although she had taken the shilling . Home to his Father , nay Mother and Wife , this Doctor did run ; in conclusion He had as good been bereaved of his Life , for there was a horrid confusion : Ever he came home the News it broke out , although he was very unwilling ; For his old Father did bang him about , and bid him remember the shilling . Likewise his Mother came in for a share , for she was as highly displeased , Giving the Doctor a Cuff on the Ear , alas ! he was never so teased : Feeling their blows to follow so soar , said he , I hope you ar'nt for killing , But they continued their fury the more , and bid him remember the shilling . His Wife was also it seems in a rage , and he in a woeful condition ; But he endeavoured her Wrath to assuage , by yielding in humble submission Unto them all : he vowing at last , both wife , nay his father and mother , Saying forgive me the Crime that is past , I never will commit such another . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Back at the Black Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . The Doctor and Beggar-Wench OR , The Barkshire FROLLICK . Since he his Credit thus did stain , in doing thus amiss , He'll never do the like again , he has enough of this . To the Tune of , The Ladies of London . TO Here was a Doctor that lives in Barkshire , of whom I will give a Relation , Such a like Frolic you seldom shall hear , not once in and Age , in the Nation : As he , indeed , was going one day to gather Herbs for his distilling , He met a Beggar-wench then by the way , and proffered to give her a shilling . If that thou wouldst but let me lay thee down that I may salute and embrace thee , Being a Person of worthy Renown , I cannot be thought to disgrace thee ; Prithee be kind , and be not afraid , for if that thou would but be willing , I do intend to be noble , he said , behold I will give thee a shilling . I am a Beggar-wench , Sir , she replied , and therefore I doubt your mistaken ; See you my Wallet hangs down by my side , it's full of Bred , Butter and Bacon . Every one , said he , has their Lot , and therefore my dear let's to Billing As for thy Calling , I valve it not , my Girl I will give thee a shilling . This noble Doctor such kindness did show as he in his Arms did enfold her ; Sir , said the Beggar-wench , where shall we go , the Doctor immediately told her : Under this Hedge we'll have our delight , to this she was presently willing ; But they was suddenly put to the flight , as soon as he gave her the shilling . For a great number of women and men did happily chance to espy them , As to a feast they were traveling then ? and yet before they could come nigh them , The Doctor run away in much shame , the thoughts of this Crime was so killing ; As for the Beggar-wench she did the same although she had taken the shilling . Home to his Father , nay Mother and Wife , this Doctor did run ; in conclusion He had as good been bereaved of his Life , for there was a horrid confusion : Ever he came home the News it broke out , although he was very unwilling ; For his old Father did bang him about , and bid him remember the shilling . Likewise his Mother came in for a share , for she was as highly displeased , Giving the Doctor a Cuff on the Ear , alas ! he was never so teased : Feeling their blows to follow so soar , said he , I hope you ar'nt for killing , But they continued their fury the more , and bid him remember the shilling . His Wife was also it seems in a rage , and he in a woeful condition ; But he endeavoured her Wrath to assuage , by yielding in humble submission Unto them all : he vowing at last , both wife , nay his father and mother , Saying forgive me the Crime that is past , I never will commit such another . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Back at the Black Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . 