The Hartfordshire Men's Fears of the Maidens Furies . It being and Answer to the Nine Maidens Attempt in Gelding the Youngman . Tune of , She god money byed . This may be printed , R.P. I Wonder that this Age is grown to such a vast confusion ; That maids won't let youngmen alone , but by a strange Intrusion They take much pleasure to gain their treasure their very fingers itches , So that men's care is now to wear a Padlock on their Breeches . The tidings soon began to spread through every Town and Village , How young-maids was by fury led , so that they vowed to pillage The youngman's Treasure , & amp ; use their pleasure , they rob them of their Riches , So that they swear they now will wear a Padlock on their Breeches . You know nine maidens did beset a man , to make him rue it , And Joan the fatal Knife did whet , and vowed that she would do it . This makes men tremble , & amp ; some run nimble , in hope's to save their Riches ; And some they swear , they now will wear a Padlock on their Breeches . When Robin to the Market goes , he is afraid to meet them , As knowing them most cruel Foes , that would most vilely treat him : Yet now to free they , if he should see they , and likewise save his Riches , He now takes care always to wear a Padlock on his Breeches . There's Roger , Will , and Richard too , nay , likewise honest Harry , With many more , as I am true , all fears they may miscarry . If maids should find um , they surely bind um and rob them of their Riches ; Therefore their care is still to wear a Padlock on their Breeches . Nay , Daniel dare not go to Plough , for fear these maids should spy him ; Because Joan and Bess did swear and vow if they could but come nigh him , They would not spare him ; now this does scare him and all his wits bewitches ; So that , I swear , he's forced to wear a Padlock on his Breeches . As Ralph does from the Market ride , a thousand fears possess him ; The like was never known ; beside he prayed that Jove would bless him , And keep him ever from their endeavour , who fain would have his Riches ; Beside he will have always still a Padlock on his breeches . Alas ! the youngmen far and near , since these nine Damosels trading , Amazed are , and quake for fear if they but see a maiden : They fear their Ruin is just ensuing , in losing of their Riches , For all they wear with prudent care a Padlock on their breeches . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West Smithfield . Where any Chapman may be furnished with all sorts of new and old Songs . The Hartfordshire Men's Fears of the Maidens Furies . It being and Answer to the Nine Maidens Attempt in Gelding the Youngman . Tune of , She god money byed . This may be printed , R.P. I Wonder that this Age is grown to such a vast confusion ; That maids won't let youngmen alone , but by a strange Intrusion They take much pleasure to gain their treasure their very fingers itches , So that men's care is now to wear a Padlock on their Breeches . The tidings soon began to spread through every Town and Village , How young-maids was by fury led , so that they vowed to pillage The youngman's Treasure , & amp ; use their pleasure , they rob them of their Riches , So that they swear they now will wear a Padlock on their Breeches . You know nine maidens did beset a man , to make him rue it , And Joan the fatal Knife did whet , and vowed that she would do it . This makes men tremble , & amp ; some run nimble , in hope's to save their Riches ; And some they swear , they now will wear a Padlock on their Breeches . When Robin to the Market goes , he is afraid to meet them , As knowing them most cruel Foes , that would most vilely treat him : Yet now to free they , if he should see they , and likewise save his Riches , He now takes care always to wear a Padlock on his Breeches . There's Roger , Will , and Richard too , nay , likewise honest Harry , With many more , as I am true , all fears they may miscarry . If maids should find um , they surely bind um and rob them of their Riches ; Therefore their care is still to wear a Padlock on their Breeches . Nay , Daniel dare not go to Plough , for fear these maids should spy him ; Because Joan and Bess did swear and vow if they could but come nigh him , They would not spare him ; now this does scare him and all his wits bewitches ; So that , I swear , he's forced to wear a Padlock on his Breeches . As Ralph does from the Market ride , a thousand fears possess him ; The like was never known ; beside he prayed that Jove would bless him , And keep him ever from their endeavour , who fain would have his Riches ; Beside he will have always still a Padlock on his breeches . Alas ! the youngmen far and near , since these nine Damosels trading , Amazed are , and quake for fear if they but see a maiden : They fear their Ruin is just ensuing , in losing of their Riches , For all they wear with prudent care a Padlock on their breeches . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West Smithfield . Where any Chapman may be furnished with all sorts of new and old Songs . A Dialogue between and Englishman and a Spaniard . A new Song A Cheshire man sail'd into Spain , There to trade for merchandise ; When he returned there again , A Spaniard by chance he espies . He said , You English rogue look here , What fruits and spices fine , Our land produces twice a year , Thou hast not the like in thine . The Cheshire man ran to his hold , And thence fetch'd out a Cheshire cheese And said , You Spanish rogue look here , We can produce such fruits as these . Your fruits are ripe but twice a year , As you yourself did say ; But such as I present you here , Our land produces twice a day . What signifies your Cheshire cheese , That you do boast so fine ; It don't my dainty palate please , So well as our country wine . Your wine makes drunken Knaves and fools , Likewise does many ills ; And of mankind it makes slaves , But mine does the belly fill . So to conclude and end my song , I would have them pay the gold , Which they have robb'd us of so long , Like knavish rogues and villains bold . For while we here do rest at ease , The Spaniards take a mighty power , To make our Englishmen their slaves , And use them basely every hour . A Dialogue between and Englishman and a Spaniard . A new Song A Cheshire man sail'd into Spain , There to trade for merchandise ; When he returned there again , A Spaniard by chance he espies . He said , You English rogue look here , What fruits and spices fine , Our land produces twice a year , Thou hast not the like in thine . The Cheshire man ran to his hold , And thence fetch'd out a Cheshire cheese And said , You Spanish rogue look here , We can produce such fruits as these . Your fruits are ripe but twice a year , As you yourself did say ; But such as I present you here , Our land produces twice a day . What signifies your Cheshire cheese , That you do boast so fine ; It don't my dainty palate please , So well as our country wine . Your wine makes drunken Knaves and fools , Likewise does many ills ; And of mankind it makes slaves , But mine does the belly fill . So to conclude and end my song , I would have them pay the gold , Which they have robb'd us of so long , Like knavish rogues and villains bold . For while we here do rest at ease , The Spaniards take a mighty power , To make our Englishmen their slaves , And use them basely every hour . 