THE Well-shaped West-Country Lass , Set forth in her Proper SHAPES and QUALITIES . She is so Fair in her Degree , that most she does surpass , I fear that many now will be in Love with this Fair Lass ; To the Tune of , Cavalilly Man. Licensed according to Order . H John , my heart it is light , I han't saw my Love since Last Saturday night , If I should meet her she and I should fight ; And this is my Love , d'ye like her Ho ? Her Hair is as White as a Ravens Feather , Her Skin is like to New-tanned Leather , The Dogs all fight when she comes hither ; And this is my Love , etc She has two little Eyes in her head , As big as two Half-penney Loaves of Bred , And every Night she Shites in Bed ; And this is my Love , etc Her Teeth are long , and nothing white , Liking to the Claws of a Kite , I never could Kiss her for fear she should bite ; And this is my Love , etc Her Mouth is of notable size , Will hold a Peck and half at twice ; She says she has a bigger between her Thighs And this is my Love , etc Her Nose is long , which does her adorn , In fashion like to a Shooing-Horn , You never saw such a one since you were born , And this is my Love , etc Her Dugs are made of Stretching Leather , Just like unto and Old Cow's Udder , To suckle the Devil she'd make a good Mother , And this is my Love , etc But if I should speak of her Leg and Foot , I know you would all have a fancy to't , Her Small may compare with a Troopers Jack Boot ; And this is my Love , etc My Jewel she is a sweet Amorous Lass , Last Wednesday night it so came to pass , She stuck a light Candle into her Arse ; And this is my Love , etc My Love she has got a delicate Spring ; Her Smock she does wet that the same you may wring , It has a sweet Scent , Sir , as strong as Old-Ling ; And this is my Love , etc Sometime to her Lodging I softly do creep , And there I behold her lie [ e ] all of a heap , She Fists and she [ F .... s ] , and farts in her sleep ; And this is my Love , etc Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back , THE Well-shaped West-Country Lass , Set forth in her Proper SHAPES and QUALITIES . She is so Fair in her Degree , that most she does surpass , I fear that many now will be in Love with this Fair Lass ; To the Tune of , Cavalilly Man. Licensed according to Order . H John , my heart it is light , I han't saw my Love since Last Saturday night , If I should meet her she and I should fight ; And this is my Love , d'ye like her Ho ? Her Hair is as White as a Ravens Feather , Her Skin is like to New-tanned Leather , The Dogs all fight when she comes hither ; And this is my Love , etc She has two little Eyes in her head , As big as two Half-penney Loaves of Bred , And every Night she Shites in Bed ; And this is my Love , etc Her Teeth are long , and nothing white , Liking to the Claws of a Kite , I never could Kiss her for fear she should bite ; And this is my Love , etc Her Mouth is of notable size , Will hold a Peck and half at twice ; She says she has a bigger between her Thighs And this is my Love , etc Her Nose is long , which does her adorn , In fashion like to a Shooing-Horn , You never saw such a one since you were born , And this is my Love , etc Her Dugs are made of Stretching Leather , Just like unto and Old Cow's Udder , To suckle the Devil she'd make a good Mother , And this is my Love , etc But if I should speak of her Leg and Foot , I know you would all have a fancy to't , Her Small may compare with a Troopers Jack Boot ; And this is my Love , etc My Jewel she is a sweet Amorous Lass , Last Wednesday night it so came to pass , She stuck a light Candle into her Arse ; And this is my Love , etc My Love she has got a delicate Spring ; Her Smock she does wet that the same you may wring , It has a sweet Scent , Sir , as strong as Old-Ling ; And this is my Love , etc Sometime to her Lodging I softly do creep , And there I behold her lie [ e ] all of a heap , She Fists and she [ F .... s ] , and farts in her sleep ; And this is my Love , etc Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back , 