Joans sorrowful Lamenta - cion to ROGER , [ ? ] hought was going to leave her and Marry Kate ; together with [ ? ] kind Answer , which gave her great satisfaction . Tune is , The Spinning-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . A S Jone was walking over the Green , she met young Roger brisk and gay , As soon as he by her was seen , with melting Eyes she thus did say : Why do you strive to baffle me , Am I not Flesh and Blood , said she . I herd of late , you Courted Kate , and vowed that she should be your Bride , Why do you serve me at this rate , my Flames I can no longer hide : A Twelvemonth you have courted me , Am I not Flesh and Blood , said she . I hear you gave her Cakes and Ale , with many other pleasant toys ; While I my sorrows do bewail , as being robbed of all those joys : Come , Roger , this must never be , For I am flesh and blood , said she . You promised her a Wedding-Ring , nay gave her huggs and kisses store ; Saying you had a better thing , but that you promised me before : I can't forget your Villainy , For I am flesh and blood , says she . I Was your Fellow-servant long , and loved you too it is well known ; How can you then in Conscience wrong your dear entire sweetheart Joan ? Have some regard to pity me , For I am flesh and blood , said she . When I fed you with Curds and Cream , and you did likewise kindness show : I then , alas , did little Dream that ever you'd a served me so : But now vouchsafe to pity me , For I am flesh and blood , said she . Last Easter you did swear and vow you'd prove to me and honest Man ; I put this to your conscience now , deny it , Roger , if you can : Why are you then unkind to me , Am I not flesh and blood , says she . By Night I sighs , instead of sleep , my heart is so with grief oppressed , While you her company do keep , alas , it breaks me of my rest : Come , Roger , this must never be , For I am flesh and blood , said she . At length young Roger thus replied , I will be true to thee alone ; And if I ever wed a Bride , it shall be thee my sweetheart Joan. Now dry up all thy tears , said he , For I love none alive but thee . My Dear , this is a false report , which some has raised to make thee grieve But I no other Lass did court , if that my word you will believe ; Then dry up all thy tears , said he , For I love none alive but thee . It is not Kate that shall deprive my Jewel of her constant Love : Nor never another Lass alive , for I will ever constant prove : Appoint the Day , we'll Married be , For I love none alive but thee . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Joans sorrowful Lamenta - cion to ROGER , [ ? ] hought was going to leave her and Marry Kate ; together with [ ? ] kind Answer , which gave her great satisfaction . Tune is , The Spinning-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . A S Jone was walking over the Green , she met young Roger brisk and gay , As soon as he by her was seen , with melting Eyes she thus did say : Why do you strive to baffle me , Am I not Flesh and Blood , said she . I herd of late , you Courted Kate , and vowed that she should be your Bride , Why do you serve me at this rate , my Flames I can no longer hide : A Twelvemonth you have courted me , Am I not Flesh and Blood , said she . I hear you gave her Cakes and Ale , with many other pleasant toys ; While I my sorrows do bewail , as being robbed of all those joys : Come , Roger , this must never be , For I am flesh and blood , said she . You promised her a Wedding-Ring , nay gave her huggs and kisses store ; Saying you had a better thing , but that you promised me before : I can't forget your Villainy , For I am flesh and blood , says she . I Was your Fellow-servant long , and loved you too it is well known ; How can you then in Conscience wrong your dear entire sweetheart Joan ? Have some regard to pity me , For I am flesh and blood , said she . When I fed you with Curds and Cream , and you did likewise kindness show : I then , alas , did little Dream that ever you'd a served me so : But now vouchsafe to pity me , For I am flesh and blood , said she . Last Easter you did swear and vow you'd prove to me and honest Man ; I put this to your conscience now , deny it , Roger , if you can : Why are you then unkind to me , Am I not flesh and blood , says she . By Night I sighs , instead of sleep , my heart is so with grief oppressed , While you her company do keep , alas , it breaks me of my rest : Come , Roger , this must never be , For I am flesh and blood , said she . At length young Roger thus replied , I will be true to thee alone ; And if I ever wed a Bride , it shall be thee my sweetheart Joan. Now dry up all thy tears , said he , For I love none alive but thee . My Dear , this is a false report , which some has raised to make thee grieve But I no other Lass did court , if that my word you will believe ; Then dry up all thy tears , said he , For I love none alive but thee . It is not Kate that shall deprive my Jewel of her constant Love : Nor never another Lass alive , for I will ever constant prove : Appoint the Day , we'll Married be , For I love none alive but thee . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 