THE Handsome Maid of Milkstreet : BEING The Substance of her sorrowful Lamentation for fear she should never be Married . To the Tune of and Orange . Licensed according to Order . I Am a young Maid that now am afraid , I never shall have a young Bachelor's Aid , To cure the Disease which lately did seize , It is a sad itching which nothing will please But a Husband . I dare to engage I am at full age , And would it not put a young Lass in a rage To be overthrown , and make this sad moan , And all the long Night to lie sighing alone , For a Husband . There's my Father's man Dick , for him I am sick , I would he would come to me now in the Neck ; He is a stout Lad , that would make my Heart glad , Now I for my own part am almost stark mad , For a Husband . I have a sweet Face , and I walk with a Grace , Nay , likewise dressed up in fine Ribbons and Lace ; My Shoulders laid bore , show my Skin white and fair ; By this you may know that I am dainty Ware For a Husband . Behold my Silk Gown well laced up and down , As Rich as most Ladies in City or Town ; Yet nevertheless , though I wear this fine Dress , I can't get a Mate , but am still in Distress For a Husband . I once had a Love , to whom like the Dove , I ever most Loyal and Constant did prove ; He did me forsake , and another Lass take , And now my poor Heart it is ready to break For a Husband . There's Susan and Kate , each Lass has her Mate , And I that am handsome must grieve at this rate , And forced to stay , that am older than they , I fear that at last I shall wander astray For a Husband . My Virginity is a burden to me , Yet no hope of Comfort at all do I see , Each Night it does keep my poor Eyelids from sleep , And instead of sweet Slumbers , I sighs , sob , and weep For a Husband . I'm proper and tall , and handsome withal , And therefore young Bachelors come at my call , Some kindness to show , or my Heart will sink low , I fear at the last , I distracted shall go For a Husband . I have Gold , I declare , with other choice Beware , And therefore young Gallants come now if you dare , For I have Fourscore broad pieces in store , And I'ld give it all , were it Twenty-times more For a Husband . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , Back . THE Handsome Maid of Milkstreet : BEING The Substance of her sorrowful Lamentation for fear she should never be Married . To the Tune of and Orange . Licensed according to Order . I Am a young Maid that now am afraid , I never shall have a young Bachelor's Aid , To cure the Disease which lately did seize , It is a sad itching which nothing will please But a Husband . I dare to engage I am at full age , And would it not put a young Lass in a rage To be overthrown , and make this sad moan , And all the long Night to lie sighing alone , For a Husband . There's my Father's man Dick , for him I am sick , I would he would come to me now in the Neck ; He is a stout Lad , that would make my Heart glad , Now I for my own part am almost stark mad , For a Husband . I have a sweet Face , and I walk with a Grace , Nay , likewise dressed up in fine Ribbons and Lace ; My Shoulders laid bore , show my Skin white and fair ; By this you may know that I am dainty Ware For a Husband . Behold my Silk Gown well laced up and down , As Rich as most Ladies in City or Town ; Yet nevertheless , though I wear this fine Dress , I can't get a Mate , but am still in Distress For a Husband . I once had a Love , to whom like the Dove , I ever most Loyal and Constant did prove ; He did me forsake , and another Lass take , And now my poor Heart it is ready to break For a Husband . There's Susan and Kate , each Lass has her Mate , And I that am handsome must grieve at this rate , And forced to stay , that am older than they , I fear that at last I shall wander astray For a Husband . My Virginity is a burden to me , Yet no hope of Comfort at all do I see , Each Night it does keep my poor Eyelids from sleep , And instead of sweet Slumbers , I sighs , sob , and weep For a Husband . I'm proper and tall , and handsome withal , And therefore young Bachelors come at my call , Some kindness to show , or my Heart will sink low , I fear at the last , I distracted shall go For a Husband . I have Gold , I declare , with other choice Beware , And therefore young Gallants come now if you dare , For I have Fourscore broad pieces in store , And I'ld give it all , were it Twenty-times more For a Husband . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , Back . 