The New Corant ; Or the merry wooing of Jonney and Jenny . Young Men and Maids if here be any , You'll say this ballet is worth a penny You shall it hear if you will stay . You know the price , buy them away . To a new Tune called Up goes aly aly . H Ere is a new fine ditty If you will but draw near , You'll say it is wondrous pretty As ever you chanced to hear , Then prithee be kind sweet JENNY , and do not me deny , My love it shall still continue Until the day I die , Then up goes aly aly up goes Mary & amp ; Nan Johnney was courting of Jenny and so they went merrily on . I have a little money my Father did give to me , Then prithee come hither my Honey and so let us both agree , Then slight me not sweet JENNY , thou dost not know my mind ; My love it shall still continue Then prithee be loving and kind , Then up goes , etc , Beside I have a Cow which grazeth on the Plain , Sweet JENNY canst love me now or else with grief i'm slave , It's all for Love of thee that I do here remain , Then Jenny fit down by me , and kiss me once again . Then up goes aly , etc My mother did promise me when ever she did die , She'd give me the Pottage pot between my wife and I . My Aunt she hath a Cradle which rocked my cousin Tom Sister Marry will give me a Ladle Thus Goods come in ding dung . Then up goes aly aly up goes Mary & amp ; Nan , Jonney was courting of Jenney , and so they went merrily on . Beside I have a you which cost me but five shilling And Bellows I have to blow If Jenny thou art but willing and other things I have Which to me does belong We shall live fine and brave For our Goods come in ding dung . Then up with aly aly up goes Mary and Nan Jonney was courting of Jenney and so they went merrily on . Then Jenny give me thy hand and do not me deny I'll be at thy command until the day I die . I'll work both night & amp ; day my Jenny for to maintain then cast me not away But show some Love again . then up , etc The Maids answer . Your words are very rare which you propound to me But some men will speak fair and yet deceitful be There is many maids have tried what truth is in young men And constant some do prove but this not one in ten . then up , etc Yet this I do confess , thou art a handsome man : But you do run to Bess & amp ; then to me again Thus I do plainly see you waver like the wind You go to two or three then how can you prove kind then up with aly aly up goes Mary and Nan Jonney was courting of Jenney and so they went merrily on . The men Answer Fower and twenty Maids as they went over the Lee And all of them were mowed except 'twere two or three . Some had hose and shoes and some had none to wear And some were naked boarn it's the fashion to go in their hair . the up with aly aly , etc Some lay at the head and some lay at the feet And some lay in the middle and they god all the sheet . This not the love of dross or Gold shall put me by There shall no Love be lost between my wife and I , then up with aly aly etc Come now lets point a day when we shall married be Town piper he shall play and I will dance with thee , So thus we'll spend the day in merriment and joy At night we'll go to bed and try to git a boy , then up with aly aly etc . And so for to conclude I do young men advice choose not a maid to rude But one of a handsome size , And so come let us kiss and make no more delay this Ballets a penny a piece So buy them all away then up with aly aly then up with Marry and Nan , Now Johnney does lie with Jenney and so the World began . With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere . J. Wright . and J. Clark . The New Corant ; Or the merry wooing of Jonney and Jenny . Young Men and Maids if here be any , You'll say this ballet is worth a penny You shall it hear if you will stay . You know the price , buy them away . To a new Tune called Up goes aly aly . H Ere is a new fine ditty If you will but draw near , You'll say it is wondrous pretty As ever you chanced to hear , Then prithee be kind sweet JENNY , and do not me deny , My love it shall still continue Until the day I die , Then up goes aly aly up goes Mary & amp ; Nan Johnney was courting of Jenny and so they went merrily on . I have a little money my Father did give to me , Then prithee come hither my Honey and so let us both agree , Then slight me not sweet JENNY , thou dost not know my mind ; My love it shall still continue Then prithee be loving and kind , Then up goes , etc , Beside I have a Cow which grazeth on the Plain , Sweet JENNY canst love me now or else with grief i'm slave , It's all for Love of thee that I do here remain , Then Jenny fit down by me , and kiss me once again . Then up goes aly , etc My mother did promise me when ever she did die , She'd give me the Pottage pot between my wife and I . My Aunt she hath a Cradle which rocked my cousin Tom Sister Marry will give me a Ladle Thus Goods come in ding dung . Then up goes aly aly up goes Mary & amp ; Nan , Jonney was courting of Jenney , and so they went merrily on . Beside I have a you which cost me but five shilling And Bellows I have to blow If Jenny thou art but willing and other things I have Which to me does belong We shall live fine and brave For our Goods come in ding dung . Then up with aly aly up goes Mary and Nan Jonney was courting of Jenney and so they went merrily on . Then Jenny give me thy hand and do not me deny I'll be at thy command until the day I die . I'll work both night & amp ; day my Jenny for to maintain then cast me not away But show some Love again . then up , etc The Maids answer . Your words are very rare which you propound to me But some men will speak fair and yet deceitful be There is many maids have tried what truth is in young men And constant some do prove but this not one in ten . then up , etc Yet this I do confess , thou art a handsome man : But you do run to Bess & amp ; then to me again Thus I do plainly see you waver like the wind You go to two or three then how can you prove kind then up with aly aly up goes Mary and Nan Jonney was courting of Jenney and so they went merrily on . The men Answer Fower and twenty Maids as they went over the Lee And all of them were mowed except 'twere two or three . Some had hose and shoes and some had none to wear And some were naked boarn it's the fashion to go in their hair . the up with aly aly , etc Some lay at the head and some lay at the feet And some lay in the middle and they god all the sheet . This not the love of dross or Gold shall put me by There shall no Love be lost between my wife and I , then up with aly aly etc Come now lets point a day when we shall married be Town piper he shall play and I will dance with thee , So thus we'll spend the day in merriment and joy At night we'll go to bed and try to git a boy , then up with aly aly etc . And so for to conclude I do young men advice choose not a maid to rude But one of a handsome size , And so come let us kiss and make no more delay this Ballets a penny a piece So buy them all away then up with aly aly then up with Marry and Nan , Now Johnney does lie with Jenney and so the World began . With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere . J. Wright . and J. Clark . 