The Country Miss new come in Fashion ; OR , A Country Girl in a Paragon Gown , That never yet knew the tricks of the Town ; Did lately delude a taring Gallant , Who just such and innocent Virgin did want ; And since he's enjoyed her I herd him protest That of all other Misses she pleased him best . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune , Called , The mock Tune to the French Rant . With Allowance G Ive me the Lass that's true Country bred , With paragon gown , straw hat on her head ; Feeding upon good Bacon and Beans , But never knew what jlting means . What though her skin be tawny and course , Flocks she lies on , she'l kiss never the worse ; Clap she never had like Miss of the Town , That's painted and patched , and lies up and down What though her speech be simple and plain , She knows not what flattering compliments mean : If [ ba ] wdy you speak , she blushes & amp ; smiles , Such innocent charms stead of beauty beguiles . Free from distempers in every part , Where ever she likes she loves from her heart , She's not for a minute like those of the Trade , For pleasing enjoyment for ever she's made . She has not the trick of forcing delight , But acts with like pleasures each day & amp ; each night Each moment she's eyeing , so hight is her fire , And never does kiss but with perfect desire . So found is her Nature , she's always in health , Her kisses are sweet which she gives me by stealth When ever I am dul , and sighing alone , She'l sing me a song of young Tommy and Jone . The hair of her head is as black as a Crow , She's very well shaped ; not too high nor too low ; All parts are inviting in every degree , Especially those we are forbidden to see . My Nanny and I ( for that is her name ) So equally manage now each others flame , That neither's deceived , nor can ever be cloyed , But both alike brisk after pleasure's enjoyed . Our Misses o'th Town act contrariwise , They never take delight but in hope's of a prize ; Their desire is palled before they begin , Because they each day make a Trade of their Sin. Their blood is corrupted , their bodies are fowl , They swear lewd enough to dam body and soul ; They clap all their Cullies , and their pockets pick And send the young fop home for a while to be sick , With a dose of rare Pills , & amp ; some other fine flaps , They keep they selves under the notion of Claps , Which else would arrive to the bridge of the nose , But that they prevent by a Turpentine dose . My Nanny and I are free from disease , We never are in danger let's do what we please We hug and we kiss , we sport and we play , And for pleasures we study to find a new way . What though her country Tone does seem rude , And cannot with eloquence others delude : This no matter for that , she has wone my heart so , I shall love her for ever for a trick that I know . Beyond all expression she sweeten's our joys , And doubtless she's full of fine Girls and fine Boys , She's kind and she's true , & amp ; so constant does prove , She never will admit any Rival in Love . The Butterfly Miss may scoff if she will , And swear that my Country Nanny wants skill : To sport and to kiss , but i'll vow she's deceived , She has judgement enough if I may be believed , Such harmless embraces would Ravish ones soul , Though old age and envy stand by to control ; Her kisses , a man almost dead will revive , No better are had from no woman alive . All that I have said of my Nanny is true , And more she deserves if I gave her her endue , But this shall suffice , and my favour i'll save , Lest you all fallen [ to ] longing for what you can't have ; London , Printed for W. Thakeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Country Miss new come in Fashion ; OR , A Country Girl in a Paragon Gown , That never yet knew the tricks of the Town ; Did lately delude a taring Gallant , Who just such and innocent Virgin did want ; And since he's enjoyed her I herd him protest That of all other Misses she pleased him best . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune , Called , The mock Tune to the French Rant . With Allowance G Ive me the Lass that's true Country bred , With paragon gown , straw hat on her head ; Feeding upon good Bacon and Beans , But never knew what jlting means . What though her skin be tawny and course , Flocks she lies on , she'l kiss never the worse ; Clap she never had like Miss of the Town , That's painted and patched , and lies up and down What though her speech be simple and plain , She knows not what flattering compliments mean : If [ ba ] wdy you speak , she blushes & amp ; smiles , Such innocent charms stead of beauty beguiles . Free from distempers in every part , Where ever she likes she loves from her heart , She's not for a minute like those of the Trade , For pleasing enjoyment for ever she's made . She has not the trick of forcing delight , But acts with like pleasures each day & amp ; each night Each moment she's eyeing , so hight is her fire , And never does kiss but with perfect desire . So found is her Nature , she's always in health , Her kisses are sweet which she gives me by stealth When ever I am dul , and sighing alone , She'l sing me a song of young Tommy and Jone . The hair of her head is as black as a Crow , She's very well shaped ; not too high nor too low ; All parts are inviting in every degree , Especially those we are forbidden to see . My Nanny and I ( for that is her name ) So equally manage now each others flame , That neither's deceived , nor can ever be cloyed , But both alike brisk after pleasure's enjoyed . Our Misses o'th Town act contrariwise , They never take delight but in hope's of a prize ; Their desire is palled before they begin , Because they each day make a Trade of their Sin. Their blood is corrupted , their bodies are fowl , They swear lewd enough to dam body and soul ; They clap all their Cullies , and their pockets pick And send the young fop home for a while to be sick , With a dose of rare Pills , & amp ; some other fine flaps , They keep they selves under the notion of Claps , Which else would arrive to the bridge of the nose , But that they prevent by a Turpentine dose . My Nanny and I are free from disease , We never are in danger let's do what we please We hug and we kiss , we sport and we play , And for pleasures we study to find a new way . What though her country Tone does seem rude , And cannot with eloquence others delude : This no matter for that , she has wone my heart so , I shall love her for ever for a trick that I know . Beyond all expression she sweeten's our joys , And doubtless she's full of fine Girls and fine Boys , She's kind and she's true , & amp ; so constant does prove , She never will admit any Rival in Love . The Butterfly Miss may scoff if she will , And swear that my Country Nanny wants skill : To sport and to kiss , but i'll vow she's deceived , She has judgement enough if I may be believed , Such harmless embraces would Ravish ones soul , Though old age and envy stand by to control ; Her kisses , a man almost dead will revive , No better are had from no woman alive . All that I have said of my Nanny is true , And more she deserves if I gave her her endue , But this shall suffice , and my favour i'll save , Lest you all fallen [ to ] longing for what you can't have ; London , Printed for W. Thakeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 