The healing Balsom of a true Lover . While Phillis seemed to be strange , Her love was almost mad , But when he found a sudden change , It made his heart full glad . Tune of Amoret and Phillis . PHillis my wounded hearts delight does triumph over my soul , When she is gone out of my sighed I by my self condoul , No comfort then at all I find when absent she's from me , I chide the woods cause they're unkind and rail at every tree . I wander through the shady woods thinking my love to find , I threaten then the sliding floods and quarrel with each Wind. The Lark that do so early rise I asked if her she see , But nothing she to me replies but makes a song of me . My passion she does strangely mock laughs at what I endure , And straight I leave my wandering flock in hope's to find a cure . Quite through the plains I rudely walk like one bereft of wit , And as unto my self I talk I fallen into a fit . Strange sights methinks I then do see which trouble me full soar , If once I could again get free I never would love her more , But there's no hope's for me at all my liberty to gain , Nor ever to get out of this thrall poor love sick helpless Swain . Y Ou happy shepherds that are free pray keep so if you can , And take a pattern now by me a poor distressed man . Love is a base and cruel cheat and robbest men of their rest , Composed of nothing but deceit while free men they are blessed . [ Phill ] is was false yet seemed kind [ ? ] caught me in a snare , [ ? ] owe she bewrays her faithless mind I mourn beneath despair . O Cupid thou deceitful boy let lose a helpless swain , Deprived of his bliss and joy and tossed in Seas of pain . Cease , Cease my dear do not complain blame not blind Cupids dart , For I will ease thee of thy pain and ease thy love sick heart . What love did cause thee to endure I grieve to think thereon , Thou art the man i'll thee assure that I do dote upon . To thee I seemed strange because i'de have thee found of me , And teach thee tricks in Cupids laws I thought were strange to thee . But now I find thou dost acquaint thy self with such like things , I can't endure to hear complaint thou shalt taste of loves springs . The Balsom of my lips i'll lay upon my bleeding wound Shall cause thy pain to pass away and shalt soon be found . Come take a kiss from thy dear heart my love I can't express , And when thou feelest no more of smart count it a happiness . How many lovers have been lost wanting a salve like mine , And in the world been strangely crossed yet by the power divine . I'm sent to heal thy bleeding breast and ease thee of thy soar , For which I hope I shall be blessed and happy evermore . Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright J. Clark . W. Thackery and T. Passenger . The healing Balsom of a true Lover . While Phillis seemed to be strange , Her love was almost mad , But when he found a sudden change , It made his heart full glad . Tune of Amoret and Phillis . PHillis my wounded hearts delight does triumph over my soul , When she is gone out of my sighed I by my self condoul , No comfort then at all I find when absent she's from me , I chide the woods cause they're unkind and rail at every tree . I wander through the shady woods thinking my love to find , I threaten then the sliding floods and quarrel with each Wind. The Lark that do so early rise I asked if her she see , But nothing she to me replies but makes a song of me . My passion she does strangely mock laughs at what I endure , And straight I leave my wandering flock in hope's to find a cure . Quite through the plains I rudely walk like one bereft of wit , And as unto my self I talk I fallen into a fit . Strange sights methinks I then do see which trouble me full soar , If once I could again get free I never would love her more , But there's no hope's for me at all my liberty to gain , Nor ever to get out of this thrall poor love sick helpless Swain . Y Ou happy shepherds that are free pray keep so if you can , And take a pattern now by me a poor distressed man . Love is a base and cruel cheat and robbest men of their rest , Composed of nothing but deceit while free men they are blessed . [ Phill ] is was false yet seemed kind [ ? ] caught me in a snare , [ ? ] owe she bewrays her faithless mind I mourn beneath despair . O Cupid thou deceitful boy let lose a helpless swain , Deprived of his bliss and joy and tossed in Seas of pain . Cease , Cease my dear do not complain blame not blind Cupids dart , For I will ease thee of thy pain and ease thy love sick heart . What love did cause thee to endure I grieve to think thereon , Thou art the man i'll thee assure that I do dote upon . To thee I seemed strange because i'de have thee found of me , And teach thee tricks in Cupids laws I thought were strange to thee . But now I find thou dost acquaint thy self with such like things , I can't endure to hear complaint thou shalt taste of loves springs . The Balsom of my lips i'll lay upon my bleeding wound Shall cause thy pain to pass away and shalt soon be found . Come take a kiss from thy dear heart my love I can't express , And when thou feelest no more of smart count it a happiness . How many lovers have been lost wanting a salve like mine , And in the world been strangely crossed yet by the power divine . I'm sent to heal thy bleeding breast and ease thee of thy soar , For which I hope I shall be blessed and happy evermore . Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright J. Clark . W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 