THE Quaker's Wives Lamentation For the LOSS of Her Husbands Jewels , Who Gelded himself ( in Petticoat-Lane , ) to vex his wife . To the Tune of The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . O Wretched Woman that I am , That I was Wed to such a Man That should do so great Injury Both to himself and unto me , Mithinks , he might have let alone The Chiefest Branch , of Nature's boon . O husband , husband , what have you done ? You've parted with Jewels were none of your'n , But they were Jewels belonging to me , For which I'ld not take Gold nor Fee ; Them I delighted more to feel , Than ever I did my Spinning Wheel . Ah! My dear Wife it was my fault That I am Lame , and thou must Halt , For hadst thou but proved true to me , Then I had done the like to thee , And if thou hadst been true my Girl , I never had parted with Nature's Pearl . Ah my Dear Wife thou dost not know What terrible pains I undergo For never man did feel such pain , I wish it were to do again , I should not do my dear such wrong , Nor be the Subject of this Song . Ah my Dear Husband , you're to blame , To bring upon us so much shame , For most men will both say , and swear That you wid go to next Horn-Fair , And if you there look like and Elf , O Husband you may thank your self . Dear Husband you have done me wrong , For Poets will put us in a Song , You might as well have cut off all , As leave behind a thing so small , And thus to break your Wedlock Band , To leave a Thing that cannot stand . Come my dear Wife before we part , I'll teach thee a trick and proveed by Art , These Ii Weis they shall do the same , As if that I were at the Game , Then do not doubt of thy own Cure , What pain soever I endure . The Powder thereof it is Divine , Then take it in a Glass of Wine , And if that I am not beguiled , It will cause thee to prove with Child , And raise and Offspring unto me , As if I were a kissing thee . Ah this is a very pretty Toy , That Quakers should themselves enjoy , And run in danger of their lives , On purpose for to vex their Wives , But if I chance to bury thee , The De'il a Quaker I will be . Now I'll set on a Resolution , I'll Trial make of this Conclusion , And take it once a Month besure , What What pain soever I endure , I doubt the Cure will prove but Lame , There's nothing like to the Old Game . THE Quaker's Wives Lamentation For the LOSS of Her Husbands Jewels , Who Gelded himself ( in Petticoat-Lane , ) to vex his wife . To the Tune of The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . O Wretched Woman that I am , That I was Wed to such a Man That should do so great Injury Both to himself and unto me , Mithinks , he might have let alone The Chiefest Branch , of Nature's boon . O husband , husband , what have you done ? You've parted with Jewels were none of your'n , But they were Jewels belonging to me , For which I'ld not take Gold nor Fee ; Them I delighted more to feel , Than ever I did my Spinning Wheel . Ah! My dear Wife it was my fault That I am Lame , and thou must Halt , For hadst thou but proved true to me , Then I had done the like to thee , And if thou hadst been true my Girl , I never had parted with Nature's Pearl . Ah my Dear Wife thou dost not know What terrible pains I undergo For never man did feel such pain , I wish it were to do again , I should not do my dear such wrong , Nor be the Subject of this Song . Ah my Dear Husband , you're to blame , To bring upon us so much shame , For most men will both say , and swear That you wid go to next Horn-Fair , And if you there look like and Elf , O Husband you may thank your self . Dear Husband you have done me wrong , For Poets will put us in a Song , You might as well have cut off all , As leave behind a thing so small , And thus to break your Wedlock Band , To leave a Thing that cannot stand . Come my dear Wife before we part , I'll teach thee a trick and proveed by Art , These Ii Weis they shall do the same , As if that I were at the Game , Then do not doubt of thy own Cure , What pain soever I endure . The Powder thereof it is Divine , Then take it in a Glass of Wine , And if that I am not beguiled , It will cause thee to prove with Child , And raise and Offspring unto me , As if I were a kissing thee . Ah this is a very pretty Toy , That Quakers should themselves enjoy , And run in danger of their lives , On purpose for to vex their Wives , But if I chance to bury thee , The De'il a Quaker I will be . Now I'll set on a Resolution , I'll Trial make of this Conclusion , And take it once a Month besure , What What pain soever I endure , I doubt the Cure will prove but Lame , There's nothing like to the Old Game . 