The Woman Warrior : BEING And Account of a young Woman who lived in Cow-Cross , near West-smithfield ; who changing her Apparel Entered her self on Board , in quality of a Soldier , and sailed to Ireland , where she Valiantly behaved her self , particularly at the Siege of Cork , where she lost her Toes and received a Mortal Wound in her Body , of which she since Died in her return to London . To the Tune of Let the Solders rejoice . Licensed according to Order . L Et the Females attend To the Lines which are penned , For here I shall gi --------- we a Relation , Of a young Married Wife , Who did venture her Life , For a Soldier , a Soldier , she went from the Nation . She her Husband did leave , And did likewise receive Her Arms , and on Bo ---------- ard she did enter , And right valiantly went , With a Resolution bent , To the Ocean , the Ocean , her Life there to venture . Yet of all the Ship's Crew Not a Seaman that knew They then had a Woe ---------- man so near they ; On the Ocean so deep , She her Council did keep , Aye , and therefore , and therefore she never did fear ' em . She was valiant and bold , And would not be controlled By any that da ----------- re to offend her : If a Quarrel arose , She would give them dry Blows , And the Captain , the Captain did highly commend her . For he took her to be Then of no mean Degree , A Gentleman's So --------- n or a ' Squire ; With a hand white and fair , There was none could compare , Which the Captain , the Captain did often admire On the Irish Shore Where the Cannons did roar , With many stout La --------- ds she was landed ; There her Life to expose , She lost Two of her Toes , And in Battle , in Battle was daily commanded . Under Grafton she fought , Like a brave Hero stout , And made the proud To ------------- rises retire ; She in Field did appear With a Heart void of Fear , And she bravely , she bravely did charge and give Fire . While the battering Balls , Did assault the strong Walls Of Cork and the swe -------- et Trumpets sounded , She did bravely advance , Where by unhappy Chance , This young Female , young Female alas ! she was wounded , At the end of the Fray , Still she languishing lay , Then over the Oh ----- cean they brought her , To her own Native Shore , Now they never knew before , That a Woman , a Woman had been in that slaughter . What she long had concealed , Now at length she revealed , That she was a Woe ----- man that ventured ; Then to London with care , She did streightways repair , But she died o ! she died ever the City she entered . When her Parents beheld , They with Sorrow was filled , For why they did dear --------- lie adore her , In her Grave now she lies , It's not watery Eyes , No nor sighing , nor sighing that ever can restore her . Printed for Charles Bates next to the Crown Tavern in West-smithfield . The Woman Warrior : BEING And Account of a young Woman who lived in Cow-Cross , near West-smithfield ; who changing her Apparel Entered her self on Board , in quality of a Soldier , and sailed to Ireland , where she Valiantly behaved her self , particularly at the Siege of Cork , where she lost her Toes and received a Mortal Wound in her Body , of which she since Died in her return to London . To the Tune of Let the Solders rejoice . Licensed according to Order . L Et the Females attend To the Lines which are penned , For here I shall gi --------- we a Relation , Of a young Married Wife , Who did venture her Life , For a Soldier , a Soldier , she went from the Nation . She her Husband did leave , And did likewise receive Her Arms , and on Bo ---------- ard she did enter , And right valiantly went , With a Resolution bent , To the Ocean , the Ocean , her Life there to venture . Yet of all the Ship's Crew Not a Seaman that knew They then had a Woe ---------- man so near they ; On the Ocean so deep , She her Council did keep , Aye , and therefore , and therefore she never did fear ' em . She was valiant and bold , And would not be controlled By any that da ----------- re to offend her : If a Quarrel arose , She would give them dry Blows , And the Captain , the Captain did highly commend her . For he took her to be Then of no mean Degree , A Gentleman's So --------- n or a ' Squire ; With a hand white and fair , There was none could compare , Which the Captain , the Captain did often admire On the Irish Shore Where the Cannons did roar , With many stout La --------- ds she was landed ; There her Life to expose , She lost Two of her Toes , And in Battle , in Battle was daily commanded . Under Grafton she fought , Like a brave Hero stout , And made the proud To ------------- rises retire ; She in Field did appear With a Heart void of Fear , And she bravely , she bravely did charge and give Fire . While the battering Balls , Did assault the strong Walls Of Cork and the swe -------- et Trumpets sounded , She did bravely advance , Where by unhappy Chance , This young Female , young Female alas ! she was wounded , At the end of the Fray , Still she languishing lay , Then over the Oh ----- cean they brought her , To her own Native Shore , Now they never knew before , That a Woman , a Woman had been in that slaughter . What she long had concealed , Now at length she revealed , That she was a Woe ----- man that ventured ; Then to London with care , She did streightways repair , But she died o ! she died ever the City she entered . When her Parents beheld , They with Sorrow was filled , For why they did dear --------- lie adore her , In her Grave now she lies , It's not watery Eyes , No nor sighing , nor sighing that ever can restore her . Printed for Charles Bates next to the Crown Tavern in West-smithfield . 