A Lamentable Ballad of Little Musgrove , and the Lady Barnet . To and Excellent New Tune . A s it fell out on a Holy day as many more be in the year , Little M usgrove would to the Church & amp ; pray to see the fair Ladies there : Gallants there were of good degree , for beauty exceeding fair , Most wondrous lovely to the eye , which did to the Church repair . Some came down in read velvet , and some came down in pall , The next came down the Lady Barnet , the fairest among them all : She cast a look on little Musgrove , as bright as the Summer's Sun , Full well then perceived little Musgrove , Lady Barnets love he had wone . The Lady Barnet meek and mild , saluted this little Musgrove , Who did reply her kind Courtesy , with Favour and gentle Love : I have a Bower in merry Barnet , bestrewed with cowslips sweet , If that you please little Musgrove , in love me there to meet . Within my arms one night to sleep , for you my love have wone , You need not fear my suspicious Lord , for he from home is gone : Betide my life , betide my death , this Night I will lie with thee , And for thy sake i'll hazard my Breath , so dear is thy Love to me . What shall we do with our little Foot-page our counsel for to keep And watch for fear Lord Barnet come , while we together sleep : Read Gold shall be his hire , quoth he , and Silver shall be his fee , So he our council safely keep , that I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your Gold , he said , nor none of your Silver fee , If I should keep your counsel Sir , 'twere great Disloyalty . I will not be false unto my Lord , for house nor yet for Land But if my Lady prove untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly ran this little Foot-page , unto his Lord with speed , He then was feasting with his own friends not dreaming of this ill deed : Most speedily the page did hast , most swiftly he did run , And when he came to the broken bridge , he bent his breast and swum . The Page did make no stay at all , but went to the Lord with speed , That he the truth my say to him , concerning this wicked deed , He found his Lord at supper then , great merriment they did keep , My Lord , quod he this night upon my word Musgrove with you Lady does sleep . I F this be true my little Foot-page , and true that thou tellest to me , My eldest daughter I'll give thee , and wedded thou shalt be : If this be a lie my little Foot-Page , and a lie thou tellest me , A new pair of Gallows shall be set up , and hanged thou shalt be . If this be a lie my Lord ( said he ) and a lie that thou hearest of me Never [ st ] ay a pair of Gallows make , but hang me on the next tree . Lord Barnet called his merry men all , away with speed he would go , His heart was so perlext with grief , the truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed , he said , and saddle me my white Steed ; If this be true as the Page hath said , Musgrove shall repent his deed : He charged his men to make no noise , as they road along the way , Nor wind no horn ( quoth he ) on your life , lest our coming it should betray . But one of them that Musgrove did love , and respected his friendship most dear , To give notice Lord Barnet was come , did wind the Bugle most clear : And evermore as he did found , away musgrove and away , For if he take thee with my Lady , then slave thou shalt be this day . O hark fair Lady , your Lord is near , I hear his little horn blow , And if he find me in your arms thus , then slave I shall be I know : Oh lie still , lie still little Musgrove , and keep my back from the cold , I know it is my Father's Shepherd , driving Sheep into the Pinfold . M usgrove did turn him pound about , sweet slumber his eyes did greet , When he did awake then he did espy Lord Barnet at the beds feet , Oh rise up , rise up , little Musgrove , and put thy clothing on , It never shall be said in England fair that I slew a naked man . Here is two Swords , Lord Barnet said , thy choice Musgrove shall make , The best of them thy self shall have , and I the worst will take : The first blow Musgrove did strike , he wounded Lord Burnet soar , The second blow Lord Barnet gave , Musgrove could strike no more . He took his Lady by the white hand , all love to rage convert , And with his sword in furious wise , he pierced her tender heart , A Grave , a Grave , Lord Barnet cried prepare to lay us in , My Lady shall lie on the upper side , because she's the better skin . Then suddenly he slew himself , which grieved his friends full soar . The death of these three worthy wights , with tears they did deplore . This sad mischief by lust was wrought , then let us call for grace , That we may shun the wicked vice , and fly from since apace . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Lamentable Ballad of Little Musgrove , and the Lady Barnet . To and Excellent New Tune . A s it fell out on a Holy day as many more be in the year , Little M usgrove would to the Church & amp ; pray to see the fair Ladies there : Gallants there were of good degree , for beauty exceeding fair , Most wondrous lovely to the eye , which did to the Church repair . Some came down in read velvet , and some came down in pall , The next came down the Lady Barnet , the fairest among them all : She cast a look on little Musgrove , as bright as the Summer's Sun , Full well then perceived little Musgrove , Lady Barnets love he had wone . The Lady Barnet meek and mild , saluted this little Musgrove , Who did reply her kind Courtesy , with Favour and gentle Love : I have a Bower in merry Barnet , bestrewed with cowslips sweet , If that you please little Musgrove , in love me there to meet . Within my arms one night to sleep , for you my love have wone , You need not fear my suspicious Lord , for he from home is gone : Betide my life , betide my death , this Night I will lie with thee , And for thy sake i'll hazard my Breath , so dear is thy Love to me . What shall we do with our little Foot-page our counsel for to keep And watch for fear Lord Barnet come , while we together sleep : Read Gold shall be his hire , quoth he , and Silver shall be his fee , So he our council safely keep , that I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your Gold , he said , nor none of your Silver fee , If I should keep your counsel Sir , 'twere great Disloyalty . I will not be false unto my Lord , for house nor yet for Land But if my Lady prove untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly ran this little Foot-page , unto his Lord with speed , He then was feasting with his own friends not dreaming of this ill deed : Most speedily the page did hast , most swiftly he did run , And when he came to the broken bridge , he bent his breast and swum . The Page did make no stay at all , but went to the Lord with speed , That he the truth my say to him , concerning this wicked deed , He found his Lord at supper then , great merriment they did keep , My Lord , quod he this night upon my word Musgrove with you Lady does sleep . I F this be true my little Foot-page , and true that thou tellest to me , My eldest daughter I'll give thee , and wedded thou shalt be : If this be a lie my little Foot-Page , and a lie thou tellest me , A new pair of Gallows shall be set up , and hanged thou shalt be . If this be a lie my Lord ( said he ) and a lie that thou hearest of me Never [ st ] ay a pair of Gallows make , but hang me on the next tree . Lord Barnet called his merry men all , away with speed he would go , His heart was so perlext with grief , the truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed , he said , and saddle me my white Steed ; If this be true as the Page hath said , Musgrove shall repent his deed : He charged his men to make no noise , as they road along the way , Nor wind no horn ( quoth he ) on your life , lest our coming it should betray . But one of them that Musgrove did love , and respected his friendship most dear , To give notice Lord Barnet was come , did wind the Bugle most clear : And evermore as he did found , away musgrove and away , For if he take thee with my Lady , then slave thou shalt be this day . O hark fair Lady , your Lord is near , I hear his little horn blow , And if he find me in your arms thus , then slave I shall be I know : Oh lie still , lie still little Musgrove , and keep my back from the cold , I know it is my Father's Shepherd , driving Sheep into the Pinfold . M usgrove did turn him pound about , sweet slumber his eyes did greet , When he did awake then he did espy Lord Barnet at the beds feet , Oh rise up , rise up , little Musgrove , and put thy clothing on , It never shall be said in England fair that I slew a naked man . Here is two Swords , Lord Barnet said , thy choice Musgrove shall make , The best of them thy self shall have , and I the worst will take : The first blow Musgrove did strike , he wounded Lord Burnet soar , The second blow Lord Barnet gave , Musgrove could strike no more . He took his Lady by the white hand , all love to rage convert , And with his sword in furious wise , he pierced her tender heart , A Grave , a Grave , Lord Barnet cried prepare to lay us in , My Lady shall lie on the upper side , because she's the better skin . Then suddenly he slew himself , which grieved his friends full soar . The death of these three worthy wights , with tears they did deplore . This sad mischief by lust was wrought , then let us call for grace , That we may shun the wicked vice , and fly from since apace . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 