Oh! how I sighs when I think on the Man ; etc : OR , The Amorous Virgin . Who never till this time did fancy man , But she must love , let her do what she can : To a dainty new Tune , much Sung in the Duke of Yorks Play-House . TO Oh little or no purpose , I spent many a day , In ranging the Park , the Exchange and the Play : For never in my Ramble , till now did , I prove , So lucky to meet with the man I could love : But Oh! how I sighs when I think of the Man , I find I must love , let me do what I can . How long I shall love him , I can no more tell , Then had I a Favour , when I should be well : My passion shall kill me before I will show it , And yet I would give all the world he did know it : But Oh! how I sighs , when I think he should woo me , I cannot deny what I know would undo me . I always did wonder how Maids could love Men , How Ladies fell sick , when men Loved not again : I could not tell where the blind Boy then did lurk , Or how the enticing temptations did work : But now I cry out , I die for the man , Let wisdom and Reason , do all what they can . H E is the most handsomest , that ever I saw , For love hath no reason , and fancy no Law : Were all men's perfections contracted in one , Accomplished Gallant , it's himself alone : For Cupid I see is a very trappan , And I must love Charles , let me do what I can . When first I espied him , he dazzled my eye ; And flashes like Lighting , did thorough him fly : I blushed , sighed and panted my Pulses did move , I am of opinion there's Witchcraft in love : But let love and reason , do all what they can , The Grave will have me , if I have not the man : I am so much perplexed , sometime I could find In my heart to go to him ; and tell him my mind : Why if I did so , what could he say then ? Such boldness would make him not love me again : A woman is strengthened much more then a man , But yet I love him , do all what I can . This amorous Virgin , was lying alone , Hid in a close Arbour and singing this Song . And lay in a posture , attired in a Dress , Would tempt a Percision unto Wickedness : But all her complaint was I must have the man , Or I shall be ruined , do all what I can . The man whom she fancied was up to the brim In love with her Person , as she was with him : And being i'th next arbour , where she made her moan , He scaled a strong Wall , that was built all of Stone And there he presents her the very same man , That must be her lover , do all what he can . They clung so together , no power could unloose they She hid her found Blushes , in's neck , and his bosom And there to each other their Hearts they reveal , And tell those kind secrets , they cannot conceal : At last she is like to be blessed with the man , That she must love do all what she can . They vow their affections , and there plighted their troth They make up a Contract bound fast by and Oath : They wedded , they bedded , by her parents consents , The Maid hath her wish , The Man his content : When providence order , a maid and a man , They shall have each other , do all what they can . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Oh! how I sighs when I think on the Man ; etc : OR , The Amorous Virgin . Who never till this time did fancy man , But she must love , let her do what she can : To a dainty new Tune , much Sung in the Duke of Yorks Play-House . TO Oh little or no purpose , I spent many a day , In ranging the Park , the Exchange and the Play : For never in my Ramble , till now did , I prove , So lucky to meet with the man I could love : But Oh! how I sighs when I think of the Man , I find I must love , let me do what I can . How long I shall love him , I can no more tell , Then had I a Favour , when I should be well : My passion shall kill me before I will show it , And yet I would give all the world he did know it : But Oh! how I sighs , when I think he should woo me , I cannot deny what I know would undo me . I always did wonder how Maids could love Men , How Ladies fell sick , when men Loved not again : I could not tell where the blind Boy then did lurk , Or how the enticing temptations did work : But now I cry out , I die for the man , Let wisdom and Reason , do all what they can . H E is the most handsomest , that ever I saw , For love hath no reason , and fancy no Law : Were all men's perfections contracted in one , Accomplished Gallant , it's himself alone : For Cupid I see is a very trappan , And I must love Charles , let me do what I can . When first I espied him , he dazzled my eye ; And flashes like Lighting , did thorough him fly : I blushed , sighed and panted my Pulses did move , I am of opinion there's Witchcraft in love : But let love and reason , do all what they can , The Grave will have me , if I have not the man : I am so much perplexed , sometime I could find In my heart to go to him ; and tell him my mind : Why if I did so , what could he say then ? Such boldness would make him not love me again : A woman is strengthened much more then a man , But yet I love him , do all what I can . This amorous Virgin , was lying alone , Hid in a close Arbour and singing this Song . And lay in a posture , attired in a Dress , Would tempt a Percision unto Wickedness : But all her complaint was I must have the man , Or I shall be ruined , do all what I can . The man whom she fancied was up to the brim In love with her Person , as she was with him : And being i'th next arbour , where she made her moan , He scaled a strong Wall , that was built all of Stone And there he presents her the very same man , That must be her lover , do all what he can . They clung so together , no power could unloose they She hid her found Blushes , in's neck , and his bosom And there to each other their Hearts they reveal , And tell those kind secrets , they cannot conceal : At last she is like to be blessed with the man , That she must love do all what she can . They vow their affections , and there plighted their troth They make up a Contract bound fast by and Oath : They wedded , they bedded , by her parents consents , The Maid hath her wish , The Man his content : When providence order , a maid and a man , They shall have each other , do all what they can . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 