The VOLUNTEERS kind Answer , TO The Loyal Damosels Resolution . He joys to hear her Love is firm and true , That to her Friends she means to bid Adieu , In Countries strange , to bear him Company , And with her dearest Love to live and die : For which , he will her faithful Friend rema [ i ] n , And make Amends , when they return again . Tune of , The Flatteries of Fate : Or , Jenny , Jenny , etc M Y Fairest and Rarest , I joy for to hear , Thy Love is so Constant And true to thy Dear , From thee my Affection Shall never depart , For thou art the Lass That enjoys my whole Heart . Since thou art so Constant And true to thy Friend , As for to go with thy Love , To the World's End. Long time I have Loved thee In Heart and in Mind And always have found thee Both loving and kind , But now thou hast wone me Unto thy own Will , By being so ready My mind to fulfil . Since thou art so Constant , etc I now am resolved , to fight the proud foe : And for Englands honour , brave Gallants do go , If thou in my perils wilt venture to share , To yield thee Content , it shall be my whole care . Since thou art so Constant , etc To venture for honour , it pleases my mind , And much I am Joyful to see thee so kind : To be my Companion in weal and in woe , While I with good fortune my valour may show . Since thou art so Constant , And true to thy Friend As for to go with thy love To the World's End. The Second Part , To the same Tune . I F Grief do assail thee I'll comfort thy heart , And in all thy Sorrows I will bear a part , I never will be wanting Thy heart for to ease , Because thou art willing My Humour to please . Since thou art so Constant And true to thy Friend , And for to go with thy love To the world's End. I needs must confess , That the dangers are great By Sea and by Land , Both in Cold and in Heat But Love that is faithful No Perils does fear Therefore I commend thee My joy and my Dear . Since thou art so Constant , etc If I can gain Riches By Sea or by Land , It shall be all ready , At thy own Command . Good Gold , and Rich Jewels , Shall fallen to thy share , And for to content thee It shall be my Care . Since thou art so Constant , etc The Mirror of Maidens Thou still shalt remain , If that we do live For to come over again , Thy Love and thy Virtue , So Splendid shall shine That I shall be proud For to say Thou art mine . Since thou art so Constant , etc Then bid my good Father And Mother Adieu . Since I am resolved To be Constant and True , The love of a Brother And more I'll supply , For I will be faithful To thee till I Die , Since thou art so Constant , etc Farewell then to England The joy of my Heart , From Friends and Relation We now must depart , But since thy Sweet Company I do Enjoy , The same will protect me From Grief and Annoy . Since thou art so Constant , etc If that we do Live To return home again , And pass all the Dangers With Labour and Pain , I'll make thee amends For thy love that's so True , Thou shalt have no cause in the least for to Rue Since thou art so Constant , etc But if that I chance to Be slave by my Foes It'll be thy last kindness My eyes for to close , And say thou hast lost A true Lover most Dear Who till the last Minute , Did make it appear . Since thou were't so Constant And true to thy Friend A s for to go with thy Love To the World's End , London , P rinted for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The VOLUNTEERS kind Answer , TO The Loyal Damosels Resolution . He joys to hear her Love is firm and true , That to her Friends she means to bid Adieu , In Countries strange , to bear him Company , And with her dearest Love to live and die : For which , he will her faithful Friend rema [ i ] n , And make Amends , when they return again . Tune of , The Flatteries of Fate : Or , Jenny , Jenny , etc M Y Fairest and Rarest , I joy for to hear , Thy Love is so Constant And true to thy Dear , From thee my Affection Shall never depart , For thou art the Lass That enjoys my whole Heart . Since thou art so Constant And true to thy Friend , As for to go with thy Love , To the World's End. Long time I have Loved thee In Heart and in Mind And always have found thee Both loving and kind , But now thou hast wone me Unto thy own Will , By being so ready My mind to fulfil . Since thou art so Constant , etc I now am resolved , to fight the proud foe : And for Englands honour , brave Gallants do go , If thou in my perils wilt venture to share , To yield thee Content , it shall be my whole care . Since thou art so Constant , etc To venture for honour , it pleases my mind , And much I am Joyful to see thee so kind : To be my Companion in weal and in woe , While I with good fortune my valour may show . Since thou art so Constant , And true to thy Friend As for to go with thy love To the World's End. The Second Part , To the same Tune . I F Grief do assail thee I'll comfort thy heart , And in all thy Sorrows I will bear a part , I never will be wanting Thy heart for to ease , Because thou art willing My Humour to please . Since thou art so Constant And true to thy Friend , And for to go with thy love To the world's End. I needs must confess , That the dangers are great By Sea and by Land , Both in Cold and in Heat But Love that is faithful No Perils does fear Therefore I commend thee My joy and my Dear . Since thou art so Constant , etc If I can gain Riches By Sea or by Land , It shall be all ready , At thy own Command . Good Gold , and Rich Jewels , Shall fallen to thy share , And for to content thee It shall be my Care . Since thou art so Constant , etc The Mirror of Maidens Thou still shalt remain , If that we do live For to come over again , Thy Love and thy Virtue , So Splendid shall shine That I shall be proud For to say Thou art mine . Since thou art so Constant , etc Then bid my good Father And Mother Adieu . Since I am resolved To be Constant and True , The love of a Brother And more I'll supply , For I will be faithful To thee till I Die , Since thou art so Constant , etc Farewell then to England The joy of my Heart , From Friends and Relation We now must depart , But since thy Sweet Company I do Enjoy , The same will protect me From Grief and Annoy . Since thou art so Constant , etc If that we do Live To return home again , And pass all the Dangers With Labour and Pain , I'll make thee amends For thy love that's so True , Thou shalt have no cause in the least for to Rue Since thou art so Constant , etc But if that I chance to Be slave by my Foes It'll be thy last kindness My eyes for to close , And say thou hast lost A true Lover most Dear Who till the last Minute , Did make it appear . Since thou were't so Constant And true to thy Friend A s for to go with thy Love To the World's End , London , P rinted for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 