A Tragical Story of LORD THOMAS And Fair Ellinor . Together with the Downfall of the B rown Girl . To a Pleasant New Tune , called , LORD THOMAS . L Ord Thomas he was a bold Forester , and a Chaser of the Kings Deer , Fair Ellinor was a Fair Woman , and Lord Thomas he loved her dear . Come Riddle , my Riddle , dear Mother , he said , and riddle us both as one ; Whither I shall Marry with fair Ellinor , and let the Brown-Girl alone . The brown Girl she has god Houses & amp ; Lands , and fair Eillnor she has god none , Therefore I charge you on my blessing , and bring me the Brown Girl home . And as it befell on a high Holiday , as many did more beside , Lord Thomas he went to Fair Ellinor , that should have been his Bride . But when he came to fair Ellinors Bower , he knocked there at the Ring : But who was so ready as fair Ellinor , for to let Lord Thomas in . What news , what news , L. Thomas she said what news hast thou brought unto me , I am come to bid thee to my Wedding , and that is bad News to thee . O H ! God forbid Lord Thomas , she said ; that such a thing should be done ; I thought to have been thy Bride my own self and you to have been the Brid's-groom . Come Riddle my Riddle dear Mother , she said and Riddle it all in one ; Whither I shall go to Lord Thomas is Wedding , or whither I shall tarry at home . There's many of your Friends Daughter , and many that are your Foe ; Therefore I charge you on my blessing , to Lord Thomas his Wedding don't go . There's many that are my Friends Mother , if a Thousand more were my Foe ; Betide my Life or betide my Death , to Lord Thomas is his Wedding I'll go . She clothed her self in Gallant attire , and her Merry-men all in green , And as they Rid through every Town , they took her to have been a Queen . But when she came to Lord Thomas his Gate , she knocked there at the Ring , But who was so ready as Lord Thomas , to let fair Ellinor in ? Is this your Bride ? fair Ellin , she said ? methinks she looks wondrous Brown , Thou mightest have had as fair a Woman , as ever trod on the Ground , Despise her not , Fair Ellin , he said , despise her not now unto me ; For better I love thy Little Finger , then all her whole Body . This Brown-Bride had a Little Pen-Knife , that was both Long and Sharp , But betwixt the Short Ribs and the Long , pricked Fair Ellinor to the heart . O Christ now save thee , Lord Thomas , he said methinks thou lookest wondrous won ; Thou wast used for to look with as fresh a Colour , as ever the Sun shined on . O art thou blind Lord Thomas , she said , or canst thou not very well see ? O dost thou not see my own hearts blood , runs trickling down my Knee ? Lord Thomas he had a Sword by his side , as he walked about the Hall , He cut off his brides Head from her shoulders and he threw it against the Wall . He set the Hilt against the Ground , and the Point against his Heart , There was never Three Lovers that ever met more sooner they did depart . This may be Printed , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for J Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Tragical Story of LORD THOMAS And Fair Ellinor . Together with the Downfall of the B rown Girl . To a Pleasant New Tune , called , LORD THOMAS . L Ord Thomas he was a bold Forester , and a Chaser of the Kings Deer , Fair Ellinor was a Fair Woman , and Lord Thomas he loved her dear . Come Riddle , my Riddle , dear Mother , he said , and riddle us both as one ; Whither I shall Marry with fair Ellinor , and let the Brown-Girl alone . The brown Girl she has god Houses & amp ; Lands , and fair Eillnor she has god none , Therefore I charge you on my blessing , and bring me the Brown Girl home . And as it befell on a high Holiday , as many did more beside , Lord Thomas he went to Fair Ellinor , that should have been his Bride . But when he came to fair Ellinors Bower , he knocked there at the Ring : But who was so ready as fair Ellinor , for to let Lord Thomas in . What news , what news , L. Thomas she said what news hast thou brought unto me , I am come to bid thee to my Wedding , and that is bad News to thee . O H ! God forbid Lord Thomas , she said ; that such a thing should be done ; I thought to have been thy Bride my own self and you to have been the Brid's-groom . Come Riddle my Riddle dear Mother , she said and Riddle it all in one ; Whither I shall go to Lord Thomas is Wedding , or whither I shall tarry at home . There's many of your Friends Daughter , and many that are your Foe ; Therefore I charge you on my blessing , to Lord Thomas his Wedding don't go . There's many that are my Friends Mother , if a Thousand more were my Foe ; Betide my Life or betide my Death , to Lord Thomas is his Wedding I'll go . She clothed her self in Gallant attire , and her Merry-men all in green , And as they Rid through every Town , they took her to have been a Queen . But when she came to Lord Thomas his Gate , she knocked there at the Ring , But who was so ready as Lord Thomas , to let fair Ellinor in ? Is this your Bride ? fair Ellin , she said ? methinks she looks wondrous Brown , Thou mightest have had as fair a Woman , as ever trod on the Ground , Despise her not , Fair Ellin , he said , despise her not now unto me ; For better I love thy Little Finger , then all her whole Body . This Brown-Bride had a Little Pen-Knife , that was both Long and Sharp , But betwixt the Short Ribs and the Long , pricked Fair Ellinor to the heart . O Christ now save thee , Lord Thomas , he said methinks thou lookest wondrous won ; Thou wast used for to look with as fresh a Colour , as ever the Sun shined on . O art thou blind Lord Thomas , she said , or canst thou not very well see ? O dost thou not see my own hearts blood , runs trickling down my Knee ? Lord Thomas he had a Sword by his side , as he walked about the Hall , He cut off his brides Head from her shoulders and he threw it against the Wall . He set the Hilt against the Ground , and the Point against his Heart , There was never Three Lovers that ever met more sooner they did depart . This may be Printed , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for J Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 