And Excellent Sonnet of the Unfortunate Loves of Hero & amp ; Leander . To the Tune of , Gerard's Mistress . Hero . H Owe fares My fair Leander ? O vouchsafe to speak lest my heart break , I banished am from thy sweet company ; & quot ; This not Thy Father's anger can abase my love , I still will prove Thy faithful friend until such time I die : Though fate And fortune do conspire , to interrupt our love , In spite of fate and fortune's hate , I still will constant prove : And though Our angry friends in malice , now our bodies parts Nor friends nor foes , nor scars nor blows , shall separate our hearts . Leander . What voice Is this that calls L eander from her Bower from yonder Tower , The Echo of this voice does sure proceed . Hero . Leander , It's thy Hero fain would come to thee , if it might be ; Thy absence makes my tender heart to bleed , But o ! This pleasant River Hellisponet , which is the peoples wonder , Those waves so high do injury , by parting us asunder : And though There's Ferry-men good store , yet none will stand my friend , To waft me over to that fair shore , where all my grief shall end . Leander . H ero , Though I am thy constant Lover still , and ever will , My angry F ather is thy enemy : He still Does strive to keep's asunder , now and then , poor F erry-men , TO heigh dare not waft thee over lest they die : Nor yet Dare they convey me unto my dear H ero now My Father's rage will not assuage , nor will the same allow : Be patient TO hen dear H ero now , es I am true to thee , Even so [ I ] trust thou art as just , and faithful unto me , H ero I S there No way to stay and angry Father's wrath , whose fury hath Bereaved his Child of comfort and content , Leander . O no , Dear H ero , there's no way that I do know , to ease my woe , My days of joy and comfort now are spent , You may As well go tame a Lion in the wilderness , As to persuade my Father's aid , to help me in distress : His anger And his River hath kept us asunder long , He hath his will , his humour still , and we have all the wrong . H ero . It's not Thy father's anger , nor his River deep , the which shall keep Me from the embracements of my dearest friend For through This silver stream , my way I mean to take even for thy sake , For thy dear sake my dearest lite i'll spend : Though waves And winds should both conspire mine enemies to be , My love's so strong I fear no wrong , can happen unto me : Oh meet Me in thy Garden , where this pleasant River glides , Lend me thy hand , draw me to Land , what ever me betides . Now must I make my tender slender arms my Oars , help watery powers ; You little fish teach me how to swim ; And all You sea-nymphs guard me unto yonder banks , i'll give you thanks , Bear up my body , strengthen every limb : I come Leander now prepare thy lovely arms for me , I come dear love , assist me Jove , I may so happy be : But o ! A mighty Tempest rose , and he was drowned that Tide , In her fair sighed , her hearts delight and so with grief she died . But when Her aged father these things understands , he wrings his hands ; And tears his hoary hair from off his head , Society He shuns , and does forsake his meat , his griefs so great , And oft does make the lowly ground his bed ; Oh my Leander would that I had died to save thy life , Or that I had , when I was sad , made thee brave Heros wife : It was My trespass , and I do confess I wronged thee Posterity shall know hereby the fault lay all in me . But since The waves have cast his body on the Land , upon the Sand , His Corpse shall buried be in solemn wise , One Grave Shall serve them both & amp ; one most stately Tomb , she'll make him room , Although her Corpse be breathless where she lies You father's Have a special care now , whatsoever you do , For those that part true loyal hearts themselves were never true , Though F ate And F ortune cross poor Lovers , sometime as we do know , Pray understand , have you no hand even in their overthrow . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , in Green Arbor-Court in the Little-Old-Baily . And Excellent Sonnet of the Unfortunate Loves of Hero & amp ; Leander . To the Tune of , Gerard's Mistress . Hero . H Owe fares My fair Leander ? O vouchsafe to speak lest my heart break , I banished am from thy sweet company ; & quot ; This not Thy Father's anger can abase my love , I still will prove Thy faithful friend until such time I die : Though fate And fortune do conspire , to interrupt our love , In spite of fate and fortune's hate , I still will constant prove : And though Our angry friends in malice , now our bodies parts Nor friends nor foes , nor scars nor blows , shall separate our hearts . Leander . What voice Is this that calls L eander from her Bower from yonder Tower , The Echo of this voice does sure proceed . Hero . Leander , It's thy Hero fain would come to thee , if it might be ; Thy absence makes my tender heart to bleed , But o ! This pleasant River Hellisponet , which is the peoples wonder , Those waves so high do injury , by parting us asunder : And though There's Ferry-men good store , yet none will stand my friend , To waft me over to that fair shore , where all my grief shall end . Leander . H ero , Though I am thy constant Lover still , and ever will , My angry F ather is thy enemy : He still Does strive to keep's asunder , now and then , poor F erry-men , TO heigh dare not waft thee over lest they die : Nor yet Dare they convey me unto my dear H ero now My Father's rage will not assuage , nor will the same allow : Be patient TO hen dear H ero now , es I am true to thee , Even so [ I ] trust thou art as just , and faithful unto me , H ero I S there No way to stay and angry Father's wrath , whose fury hath Bereaved his Child of comfort and content , Leander . O no , Dear H ero , there's no way that I do know , to ease my woe , My days of joy and comfort now are spent , You may As well go tame a Lion in the wilderness , As to persuade my Father's aid , to help me in distress : His anger And his River hath kept us asunder long , He hath his will , his humour still , and we have all the wrong . H ero . It's not Thy father's anger , nor his River deep , the which shall keep Me from the embracements of my dearest friend For through This silver stream , my way I mean to take even for thy sake , For thy dear sake my dearest lite i'll spend : Though waves And winds should both conspire mine enemies to be , My love's so strong I fear no wrong , can happen unto me : Oh meet Me in thy Garden , where this pleasant River glides , Lend me thy hand , draw me to Land , what ever me betides . Now must I make my tender slender arms my Oars , help watery powers ; You little fish teach me how to swim ; And all You sea-nymphs guard me unto yonder banks , i'll give you thanks , Bear up my body , strengthen every limb : I come Leander now prepare thy lovely arms for me , I come dear love , assist me Jove , I may so happy be : But o ! A mighty Tempest rose , and he was drowned that Tide , In her fair sighed , her hearts delight and so with grief she died . But when Her aged father these things understands , he wrings his hands ; And tears his hoary hair from off his head , Society He shuns , and does forsake his meat , his griefs so great , And oft does make the lowly ground his bed ; Oh my Leander would that I had died to save thy life , Or that I had , when I was sad , made thee brave Heros wife : It was My trespass , and I do confess I wronged thee Posterity shall know hereby the fault lay all in me . But since The waves have cast his body on the Land , upon the Sand , His Corpse shall buried be in solemn wise , One Grave Shall serve them both & amp ; one most stately Tomb , she'll make him room , Although her Corpse be breathless where she lies You father's Have a special care now , whatsoever you do , For those that part true loyal hearts themselves were never true , Though F ate And F ortune cross poor Lovers , sometime as we do know , Pray understand , have you no hand even in their overthrow . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , in Green Arbor-Court in the Little-Old-Baily . 