The Unconstant Maid of Portugal : OR , THE Forsaken young Man of HORSAM : Being a true Relation of a young Man of HORSAM in SUSSEX , who Courting a beautiful Maid of Portugal ; who after she had made many Vows , Promises , and contracted Marriage with him , left him Languishing for her sake . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed and Entered according to Order . W Hen out of England first I went , It was my will and heart's content ; And having of a pleasant Gale , Soon god unto , soon god unto , fair Portugale . When first unto fair Port I came , Oh there I spied a comely Dame ; A Damosel of fair beauty bright , Which soon became , which soon became , my hearts delight . This loving Couple soon agreed , For to be married with all speed ; O! but this Damsel did not know , That her kind love , that her kind love , to Sea must go , Unto a Captain's house he went , Sent for his love and heart's content , That she unto him would come straight ; He there for her , her there for her , long time did wait . Unto this house at length she came , Calling for her kind love by name ; What is [ you ] will , my Dear , said she , That here thou hast , that here thou hast , now sent for me ? Unto his Love a ring he gave , Desiring her pardon to have ; For he to Newfoundland must go , Which filled her heart , which filled her heart , with grief and woe . O come my Dear now stay on shore , And n'er return to Sea no more ; O! for if thou dost it'll break my heart , To think my dear , to think my dear , and I must part . If you unto the Sea will go , Do not forget your former Vow , That thee and I my Dear have made , But thou wilt forget , thou wilt forget , I am afraid . O let some Writings now be made , For of my Love I am afraid ; That he some fairer Lass may see , And not prove true , and not prove true , but false to me . Some writings then straightway was drawn , This loving Cupple to be sworn ; That to each other should prove true , Oh do but mind , Oh do but mind , what did ensue This young Man went to Newfoundland , And was to be married when he returned ; But when he returned to Port again , He could not see , he could not see , his comely Dame . Unto her Sister straight he goes Inquiring for his lovely Rose , That in the Garden grew so fair , But now she's gone , but now she's gone , the de'il knows where . You pretty Maidens now take heed , Do not defile your Marriagebed ; As this fair Damsel now hath done , Which forced her from , which forced her from her love to run . Into the Country now she's gone , And left her Lover all alone ; A pox take all such Maidens now , That takes no care , that takes no care , but brakes her vow . Printed for E. Tracy , on London-bridge . The Unconstant Maid of Portugal : OR , THE Forsaken young Man of HORSAM : Being a true Relation of a young Man of HORSAM in SUSSEX , who Courting a beautiful Maid of Portugal ; who after she had made many Vows , Promises , and contracted Marriage with him , left him Languishing for her sake . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed and Entered according to Order . W Hen out of England first I went , It was my will and heart's content ; And having of a pleasant Gale , Soon god unto , soon god unto , fair Portugale . When first unto fair Port I came , Oh there I spied a comely Dame ; A Damosel of fair beauty bright , Which soon became , which soon became , my hearts delight . This loving Couple soon agreed , For to be married with all speed ; O! but this Damsel did not know , That her kind love , that her kind love , to Sea must go , Unto a Captain's house he went , Sent for his love and heart's content , That she unto him would come straight ; He there for her , her there for her , long time did wait . Unto this house at length she came , Calling for her kind love by name ; What is [ you ] will , my Dear , said she , That here thou hast , that here thou hast , now sent for me ? Unto his Love a ring he gave , Desiring her pardon to have ; For he to Newfoundland must go , Which filled her heart , which filled her heart , with grief and woe . O come my Dear now stay on shore , And n'er return to Sea no more ; O! for if thou dost it'll break my heart , To think my dear , to think my dear , and I must part . If you unto the Sea will go , Do not forget your former Vow , That thee and I my Dear have made , But thou wilt forget , thou wilt forget , I am afraid . O let some Writings now be made , For of my Love I am afraid ; That he some fairer Lass may see , And not prove true , and not prove true , but false to me . Some writings then straightway was drawn , This loving Cupple to be sworn ; That to each other should prove true , Oh do but mind , Oh do but mind , what did ensue This young Man went to Newfoundland , And was to be married when he returned ; But when he returned to Port again , He could not see , he could not see , his comely Dame . Unto her Sister straight he goes Inquiring for his lovely Rose , That in the Garden grew so fair , But now she's gone , but now she's gone , the de'il knows where . You pretty Maidens now take heed , Do not defile your Marriagebed ; As this fair Damsel now hath done , Which forced her from , which forced her from her love to run . Into the Country now she's gone , And left her Lover all alone ; A pox take all such Maidens now , That takes no care , that takes no care , but brakes her vow . Printed for E. Tracy , on London-bridge . 