TO : The DESPAIRING LOVER . Whose Mind with Sorrow much was discontented , Because of his true Love he was prevented . To the Tune of , Aim not too high . B Reak heart and die , I may no longer live , [ ? ] this World nothing that I would give , I live forlorn , o joys are from me fled , I have lost my Love , alas , my heart is dead ! Each thing on earth continueth with his Love , The pretty WORSER [ ? ? ? ] eon and the Turtledove ; And diverse others in this World I know , But my Love will not seem to love me so . I little thought what true I now do find , I did not dream my Love would prove unkind ; But it's no news , for many proves untrue , And so does mine , for she bids me adieu . Seeing it's so , i'll turn a Palmer poor , And I will range abroad the World half over , To see if I can find some dismal cave . There will I dwell , there will I dig my grave . I will go travel to some new found Land , To France to Spain and Turky out of hand ; Where unto Strangers there I will complain , How that my Love hath me unkindly slave . If I do land upon some new found shore , Whereas no Man did ever land before , Then should I think myself in happy case , For my delight is in a silent place . There will I write my fill of my true Love ; Did I say true ? what fancy did me move , To count her true that always was unkind , And is as fickle as the wavering wind ? Once she was fair and lovely in my sighed , [ ? ] But now her smiles are turned to frowns and fire , To kill my heart with woe is her desire . Bright Phebus beams are darkened in the skies , When as the storms of Boreas do arise ; But she does quickly shine after the rain , But my coy Mistress will not love again . I would I were now sinking in the Seas In some frail vessel , if the Fates did please : Where neither love nor comfort could be found , But every hour expecting to be drowned , My speeches all do but prolong my pain , For I did never fail the Dream [ ? ] - main ; Nor will I suffer life in me to ' bide , So long to wait the time of wind and tide . Seeing it's so , to the wilderness i'll high , among wild beasts , where I intend to die ; Where lyons , tigers , bears , and panthers mourn , With dragons , elephants and unicorn . Thus many wishes I have wished in vain , And none of these can ease me of my pain : This piercing poniard now shall end the strife , And kill my heart that loathes this mortal life . This being spoken , forth his Love did rush , Beholding him with many a smile and blush , Oh hold , quoth she , and hear what I do say , Do not despair , nor work thy lives decay . You Maidens fair , I pray come lend and ear , And you shall see how true he did appear : She gave him comfort in his troubled mind : And there after proved herself most kind . A Constant and Kind MAID , Who saved in Love a proper young Man's Life , And after proved his dear and loving Wife . To the same TUNE . C Ontent thyself my Love , and do not die , Thy life I love , thy death I do defy , Live then in joy and seek to banish pain , Take a good heart , and I will love again . Each-thing on earth does love his chosen Mate , And thou condemnest me , and said I hate : Men love by fancy , beasts they love by kind , Then fancy me , and thou shalt favour find . For all the gold that Cresus ever did own , I will not seem to leave my Love alone ; No , no , my Love , I will not prove untrue , Nor will I change and old Friend for a new . Thou shalt not need to turn a Palmer poor , For I for thee have gold and silver store ; Instead of finding out some secret place , Thou shalt have me within thy arms embrace ; Thou shalt not travel to another land , For i'll be ready still at thy command : Thou shalt my Dear have not cause to complain , For I with joy thy love will entertain . If thou hadst landed on some foreign shore , Whereas no Man did ever land did ever land before : But seeing thou art here alive with me , Thou shalt not go hence dangers for to see : What wilt thou wish of me my own true Love , Fear not my Dear , for I will constant prove : I am thy own , and so thou shalt me find , To thee I will be loving true and kind . As I was fair and lovely in thy sighed , So will I prove thy joy and heart's delight ; I will not seek thy dearest blood to spill , But I will yield unto thy wished will . Sweet I have listened to thy moan and cries , Weep thou no more , but wipe thy watery eyes : the storms are past , the sun shines after rain , And I do vow to love thee once again . If thou wertenberg on the roaring Sea so wide , Upon the Dophins back then thou mayest ride : Desiring Neptune's favour out of hand , To be your Pilot to some other Land. Sweet Love abroad much dangers do ensue , The Sea and Wilderness bids thee adieu ; Never seek to write , nor think of wind and tide , But live with me and I will be thy Bride . O stay at home my Love and go not there , Wild beasts in pieces will thy body tear : When I behold them for to suck thy blood , They shall have mine , my Love , to do thee good . Lo thus to thee , my Love , I do make known , Vowing hereafter I will by thy own : Oh stay thy hand , my Love , and do not dill Thy gentle heart , which I do love so well . Then straight he took his Love into his arms , That had preserved his bo [ worser ] y from such harms , We come , quoth he , I lov [ e ] thee as my life , And quickly after he made her his Wife . Thus have you herd my Song of woe and joy , Le [ tO ] Maids and young Men listen to't I pray ; Make you no Vows , but have a spec [ jal ] care , For fear you wound your Love with deep despair . London : Printed by and for W. O. for A. M. and are to be sold by J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . TO : The DESPAIRING LOVER . Whose Mind with Sorrow much was discontented , Because of his true Love he was prevented . To the Tune of , Aim not too high . B Reak heart and die , I may no longer live , [ ? ] this World nothing that I would give , I live forlorn , o joys are from me fled , I have lost my Love , alas , my heart is dead ! Each thing on earth continueth with his Love , The pretty WORSER [ ? ? ? ] eon and the Turtledove ; And diverse others in this World I know , But my Love will not seem to love me so . I little thought what true I now do find , I did not dream my Love would prove unkind ; But it's no news , for many proves untrue , And so does mine , for she bids me adieu . Seeing it's so , i'll turn a Palmer poor , And I will range abroad the World half over , To see if I can find some dismal cave . There will I dwell , there will I dig my grave . I will go travel to some new found Land , To France to Spain and Turky out of hand ; Where unto Strangers there I will complain , How that my Love hath me unkindly slave . If I do land upon some new found shore , Whereas no Man did ever land before , Then should I think myself in happy case , For my delight is in a silent place . There will I write my fill of my true Love ; Did I say true ? what fancy did me move , To count her true that always was unkind , And is as fickle as the wavering wind ? Once she was fair and lovely in my sighed , [ ? ] But now her smiles are turned to frowns and fire , To kill my heart with woe is her desire . Bright Phebus beams are darkened in the skies , When as the storms of Boreas do arise ; But she does quickly shine after the rain , But my coy Mistress will not love again . I would I were now sinking in the Seas In some frail vessel , if the Fates did please : Where neither love nor comfort could be found , But every hour expecting to be drowned , My speeches all do but prolong my pain , For I did never fail the Dream [ ? ] - main ; Nor will I suffer life in me to ' bide , So long to wait the time of wind and tide . Seeing it's so , to the wilderness i'll high , among wild beasts , where I intend to die ; Where lyons , tigers , bears , and panthers mourn , With dragons , elephants and unicorn . Thus many wishes I have wished in vain , And none of these can ease me of my pain : This piercing poniard now shall end the strife , And kill my heart that loathes this mortal life . This being spoken , forth his Love did rush , Beholding him with many a smile and blush , Oh hold , quoth she , and hear what I do say , Do not despair , nor work thy lives decay . You Maidens fair , I pray come lend and ear , And you shall see how true he did appear : She gave him comfort in his troubled mind : And there after proved herself most kind . A Constant and Kind MAID , Who saved in Love a proper young Man's Life , And after proved his dear and loving Wife . To the same TUNE . C Ontent thyself my Love , and do not die , Thy life I love , thy death I do defy , Live then in joy and seek to banish pain , Take a good heart , and I will love again . Each-thing on earth does love his chosen Mate , And thou condemnest me , and said I hate : Men love by fancy , beasts they love by kind , Then fancy me , and thou shalt favour find . For all the gold that Cresus ever did own , I will not seem to leave my Love alone ; No , no , my Love , I will not prove untrue , Nor will I change and old Friend for a new . Thou shalt not need to turn a Palmer poor , For I for thee have gold and silver store ; Instead of finding out some secret place , Thou shalt have me within thy arms embrace ; Thou shalt not travel to another land , For i'll be ready still at thy command : Thou shalt my Dear have not cause to complain , For I with joy thy love will entertain . If thou hadst landed on some foreign shore , Whereas no Man did ever land did ever land before : But seeing thou art here alive with me , Thou shalt not go hence dangers for to see : What wilt thou wish of me my own true Love , Fear not my Dear , for I will constant prove : I am thy own , and so thou shalt me find , To thee I will be loving true and kind . As I was fair and lovely in thy sighed , So will I prove thy joy and heart's delight ; I will not seek thy dearest blood to spill , But I will yield unto thy wished will . Sweet I have listened to thy moan and cries , Weep thou no more , but wipe thy watery eyes : the storms are past , the sun shines after rain , And I do vow to love thee once again . If thou wertenberg on the roaring Sea so wide , Upon the Dophins back then thou mayest ride : Desiring Neptune's favour out of hand , To be your Pilot to some other Land. Sweet Love abroad much dangers do ensue , The Sea and Wilderness bids thee adieu ; Never seek to write , nor think of wind and tide , But live with me and I will be thy Bride . O stay at home my Love and go not there , Wild beasts in pieces will thy body tear : When I behold them for to suck thy blood , They shall have mine , my Love , to do thee good . Lo thus to thee , my Love , I do make known , Vowing hereafter I will by thy own : Oh stay thy hand , my Love , and do not dill Thy gentle heart , which I do love so well . Then straight he took his Love into his arms , That had preserved his bo [ worser ] y from such harms , We come , quoth he , I lov [ e ] thee as my life , And quickly after he made her his Wife . Thus have you herd my Song of woe and joy , Le [ tO ] Maids and young Men listen to't I pray ; Make you no Vows , but have a spec [ jal ] care , For fear you wound your Love with deep despair . London : Printed by and for W. O. for A. M. and are to be sold by J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 