LOVE without blemish . Or , The unfortunate Couple . See here the pattern of True-Love , Which nothing could estrange , Till death they both did constant prove , And never approved of change . To a new Playhouse Tune . Or , The Fair one let me in . F Arwel , farewell my hearts delight Since thee and I must part And Fortune strives us to despite I fear 'twill break my heart : But if thou constant wilt remain isle be as true to thee That we may once more meet again in spite of enmity . Why Fortune will you prove unkind To part poor Lovers so Who are not wavering like the wind Nor any falsehood know : But while the Sun and Moon endure We constant will remain Then strive no mischief to procure Nor add to Lovers pain . Well since I must be gone from thee Give me one parting kiss , And vow but to be true to me 'Twill add unto my bliss ; And when the Ocean it does roar isle think upon my dear When thou that art upon the shore Perhaps mayest wish me here , Thus did this loving couple part And to the Sea he went Each sighed as if they break their heart And sadly did lament . But mark what cruel Fate befell As he was outward bound The Pilot he not being well The Seamen all were drowned . Upon the Sands long time thy walked Hoping some help to find This Lover on his Mistress talked Who was to him so kind : But ot the last the tide did rise And no help came them near , While swelling waves did close their Eyes And drowned all they were . At last this news to London came Which did this maid surprise And set her in a burning flame , While tears fell from her eyes : Ah my dear Love this Damsel said Art thou thus snatched from me Since death my comforts hath betrayed isle quickly follow thee , Into the Ocean I will run To seek my Lovers Tomb His loss of breath hath me undone That did the Air perfume Therefore I will no comfort take While I enjoy my breath But for my dearest Lovers sake I'll follow him in death Then falling down into a Trance Her senses fled away , Which proved a very sad mischance With lips as cold as clay : She cried my dearest now I come Prepare to welcome me Where thou liest in thy watery tomb I'll come to visit thee . Her joints began to shiver then And trembling as she lay Quoth she if life return again Dispatch me I you pray , For here I hate for to abide Or long enjoy my life , Since I am not my true Loves Bride That should been his wife . So gasping on the ground she lay As loath to loose her breath She at the last did fainting say O welcome welcome death , For since my Love from me is gone No comfort I have here , And now my joy I come I come To meet with thee my dear . Thus did the fair one yield the Ghost And clearly died for Love . Who of her constancy might boast That did so Loyal prove , But cruel death oft separates Those who might well agree And prove to be most loving mates Living in constancy . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clrk , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . LOVE without blemish . Or , The unfortunate Couple . See here the pattern of True-Love , Which nothing could estrange , Till death they both did constant prove , And never approved of change . To a new Playhouse Tune . Or , The Fair one let me in . F Arwel , farewell my hearts delight Since thee and I must part And Fortune strives us to despite I fear 'twill break my heart : But if thou constant wilt remain isle be as true to thee That we may once more meet again in spite of enmity . Why Fortune will you prove unkind To part poor Lovers so Who are not wavering like the wind Nor any falsehood know : But while the Sun and Moon endure We constant will remain Then strive no mischief to procure Nor add to Lovers pain . Well since I must be gone from thee Give me one parting kiss , And vow but to be true to me 'Twill add unto my bliss ; And when the Ocean it does roar isle think upon my dear When thou that art upon the shore Perhaps mayest wish me here , Thus did this loving couple part And to the Sea he went Each sighed as if they break their heart And sadly did lament . But mark what cruel Fate befell As he was outward bound The Pilot he not being well The Seamen all were drowned . Upon the Sands long time thy walked Hoping some help to find This Lover on his Mistress talked Who was to him so kind : But ot the last the tide did rise And no help came them near , While swelling waves did close their Eyes And drowned all they were . At last this news to London came Which did this maid surprise And set her in a burning flame , While tears fell from her eyes : Ah my dear Love this Damsel said Art thou thus snatched from me Since death my comforts hath betrayed isle quickly follow thee , Into the Ocean I will run To seek my Lovers Tomb His loss of breath hath me undone That did the Air perfume Therefore I will no comfort take While I enjoy my breath But for my dearest Lovers sake I'll follow him in death Then falling down into a Trance Her senses fled away , Which proved a very sad mischance With lips as cold as clay : She cried my dearest now I come Prepare to welcome me Where thou liest in thy watery tomb I'll come to visit thee . Her joints began to shiver then And trembling as she lay Quoth she if life return again Dispatch me I you pray , For here I hate for to abide Or long enjoy my life , Since I am not my true Loves Bride That should been his wife . So gasping on the ground she lay As loath to loose her breath She at the last did fainting say O welcome welcome death , For since my Love from me is gone No comfort I have here , And now my joy I come I come To meet with thee my dear . Thus did the fair one yield the Ghost And clearly died for Love . Who of her constancy might boast That did so Loyal prove , But cruel death oft separates Those who might well agree And prove to be most loving mates Living in constancy . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clrk , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 