The LAMENTATION OF Dell's Mistress For the Loss of her Gallant . To a New Tune , called ; The little Fish in the Deep , knows no such Liberty . DELL is Mistress dear , with Carret hair , her Love his Wisdom drowned ; But he was Hanged at Tyburn strong , caused sorrows to abound . My sorrow is great for his sad fate , for loss of my dear Friend ; I wish I had him by my side , sorrows would have and end . Be gone , be gone , found thoughts be gone , and give your sorrows over ; My Friend that I expected down will never come no more . Which makes my heart within me burn , to think how I am down ; For once I was beloved I thought , by the Wisest of the Town . My Neighbours make a scoff at me , and Laugh at my own Door ; Because he's Hanged that was my Friend , and will never come no more . If my dear Friend was here again , that stands in Chirargions Hall , My Neighbours durst not scoff at me , for he'd a plagued them all . He plagued poor men to maintain me , and thus he led his Life , And all was for the Love of she , that is the Tailors Wife . He put his Father Ball to Nurse , to Deans that was his Friend : But for the Riches that he had , he come by his sad end . Dell Murdered his Father dear , his Brother , and his Wife : For since they come to Edger Town , 'twas I that caused the strife . His Company was as sweet to me , as Roses are in June , I thought he was the wisest Man , that was in Edger Town . The Spirit of his Murdered Wife , appears to each Man's sighed , No comfort in the World she had , as he did led his Life This Song is made of Dell my friend , that Killed his Brother Ball , And I which am the Tailors wife , I was the cause of all . Since that I can't Revenged be , of those that seek my fallen , I wish I were with my dear Friend , that stands in Surgeons Hall . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. W [ right ] and J. Clarke . The LAMENTATION OF Dell's Mistress For the Loss of her Gallant . To a New Tune , called ; The little Fish in the Deep , knows no such Liberty . DELL is Mistress dear , with Carret hair , her Love his Wisdom drowned ; But he was Hanged at Tyburn strong , caused sorrows to abound . My sorrow is great for his sad fate , for loss of my dear Friend ; I wish I had him by my side , sorrows would have and end . Be gone , be gone , found thoughts be gone , and give your sorrows over ; My Friend that I expected down will never come no more . Which makes my heart within me burn , to think how I am down ; For once I was beloved I thought , by the Wisest of the Town . My Neighbours make a scoff at me , and Laugh at my own Door ; Because he's Hanged that was my Friend , and will never come no more . If my dear Friend was here again , that stands in Chirargions Hall , My Neighbours durst not scoff at me , for he'd a plagued them all . He plagued poor men to maintain me , and thus he led his Life , And all was for the Love of she , that is the Tailors Wife . He put his Father Ball to Nurse , to Deans that was his Friend : But for the Riches that he had , he come by his sad end . Dell Murdered his Father dear , his Brother , and his Wife : For since they come to Edger Town , 'twas I that caused the strife . His Company was as sweet to me , as Roses are in June , I thought he was the wisest Man , that was in Edger Town . The Spirit of his Murdered Wife , appears to each Man's sighed , No comfort in the World she had , as he did led his Life This Song is made of Dell my friend , that Killed his Brother Ball , And I which am the Tailors wife , I was the cause of all . Since that I can't Revenged be , of those that seek my fallen , I wish I were with my dear Friend , that stands in Surgeons Hall . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. W [ right ] and J. Clarke . 