Two Unfortunate LOVERS . Or , A true Relation of the lamentable end of John True and Susan Mease . Their lives this Ditty does relate , And how she died Unfortunate . The Tune is , The Brides , B urial . A Ttend you Lovers and give ear , unto my mournful Song , Of two that loved faithfully , yet did each other wrong . At Coventry in Warwickshire , this young man he did dwell , His name John True a Shoemaker , and lived of it full well . At Corly did this Maiden dwell , three miles from Coventry , Yet for the love he boar to her , he would her often see . And coming to her on a day , he told to her his mind , Susan , quoth he , I love thee dear , be not to me unkind . If thou canst love and fancy me , in heart and eke in mind , I will prove loving unto thee , be not to me unkind . Thy cheerful looks rejoice my heart , and mercy make my mind , Sweet Susan then love me again , be not to me unkind . Good John I thank you for your love , and wish you at home to tarry , I am too young for you to wed , and have no mind to marry . Where you do dwell are Maidens store of beauty fair and free , Set not thy love upon me then , for I cannot love thee . This answer struck him to the heart , as cold as any stone , Then homeward strait he did return , with many a sighs and groan . Wishing that he had never been born , or in his cradle died , Unhappy man to love so true , and yet to be denied : Quoth he , I will to her again , and hear what she does say . It may be she may be more kind , though first she said me nay . Then coming to the town again , he sent for her strait way , Desiring her to speak with him , but still she said him nay . Then did he sighs , lament , and grieve , and knew not what to say , Then did he take his pen in hand , and writ these words strait way . My hearts delight and only joy , kill me not with disdain , Vouchsafe that I may speak with thee so rid me out of pain . Resolve me sweetest I thee pray , why is thy hatred such ? I know no cause , unless it be , for loving thee too much . As is my name , so is my love , sweet Susan unto thee . True is my name , True is my love , and ever so shall be . My Love is Loyal , just , and good , kill me not with disdain , Rather do me the courtesy , to love for love again . When she had read and understood , his mind and his intent , She then began to like and love , and yield him hearts content . John I am thine , if thou be'st mine , for ever and for aye , It was to try thy constancy , that I did say thee nay . But here's my hand , my heart & amp ; love , i'll never thee more deny : My love is constant firm and true , and shall be till I die . Then they embraced each others love , and joined in heart and voice , That she of him , and he of her had made so weet a choice . The second part , to the same Tune B Ut fortune that does often frown , where she before did smile , The men delight , the Maidens joy , full soon she did beguile . When she was settled in her love , then he would change his mind , And for to try her constancy , would be to her unkind . And thus resolved in his mind , he'd come to her no more , But went and wooed another Maid , which grieved her heart full soar . Quoth he , she proved unto me , hardhearted and unkind : But now her true love I have wone , i'll bear the self same mind . When she perceived his love to her , not as 'twas wont to be , She did lament sighs , weep and grieve , and then those words said she . Falsehearted wretch adieu , quoth she disloyal and unkind , And if I die for love of thee , thou shalt not know my mind . Woe to the time I did believe , that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen the tears of thy false eyn . Hard hap had I to set my love on one that mocked me , Sure all the Country did not yield a man so false as he . Thus was she brought to mean estate , all comfort from her fled , She did desire to speak with him , before that she was dead . Her friends did seek to cheer her up , and to make glad her mind , But she was killed with loving him , who proved to her unkind . Falsehearted man , may never Maid love thee as I have done . But may my death remembered be , to time that is to come . But may all maids example take by this my mournful death , And now Oh Lord receive my soul , to thee I yield my breath . Thus died the pattern of true love thus died a virtuous Maid , Thus died as good a harmless Lass , as thee love betrayed . Six Maids in white as custom is , did bear her to the grave , Her Parents grieve , lament & amp ; mou [ rn ] no child at all they have . When as her lover understood , for truth that she was dead , He raged , and ready was to tear the hair from off his head . But when he came unto the place where his true lover lay , He straightway ran unto the grave , and there these words did say . Susan , quoth he , i'll kiss thy grave , upon my bent knee , Whereby i'll show to all the world , how dear I loved thee . And as he lay upon the ground , he herd a voice to say , John True , if ever thou lov'dst me dear , make haste and come away . Then started he up from the grave , and stood like one struck dumb , And when he had regained his speech , he said , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his wits , he raged in piteous sort , That all the Neighbours presently were grieved at his report . And thus with sorrow and grief of heart he lay a whole fortnight And when he had confessed his fault , he yielded up his spirit . According to his hearts desire , and as he did request , They dug his grave , & amp ; laid him down by her whom he loved best . You youngmen all that have true loves , be sure unto your friend , And if you love , be sure your love , be true unto the end . And thus I end my story true , so full of grief and woe , May never any seek again , to wrong each other so . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . Two Unfortunate LOVERS . Or , A true Relation of the lamentable end of John True and Susan Mease . Their lives this Ditty does relate , And how she died Unfortunate . The Tune is , The Brides , B urial . A Ttend you Lovers and give ear , unto my mournful Song , Of two that loved faithfully , yet did each other wrong . At Coventry in Warwickshire , this young man he did dwell , His name John True a Shoemaker , and lived of it full well . At Corly did this Maiden dwell , three miles from Coventry , Yet for the love he boar to her , he would her often see . And coming to her on a day , he told to her his mind , Susan , quoth he , I love thee dear , be not to me unkind . If thou canst love and fancy me , in heart and eke in mind , I will prove loving unto thee , be not to me unkind . Thy cheerful looks rejoice my heart , and mercy make my mind , Sweet Susan then love me again , be not to me unkind . Good John I thank you for your love , and wish you at home to tarry , I am too young for you to wed , and have no mind to marry . Where you do dwell are Maidens store of beauty fair and free , Set not thy love upon me then , for I cannot love thee . This answer struck him to the heart , as cold as any stone , Then homeward strait he did return , with many a sighs and groan . Wishing that he had never been born , or in his cradle died , Unhappy man to love so true , and yet to be denied : Quoth he , I will to her again , and hear what she does say . It may be she may be more kind , though first she said me nay . Then coming to the town again , he sent for her strait way , Desiring her to speak with him , but still she said him nay . Then did he sighs , lament , and grieve , and knew not what to say , Then did he take his pen in hand , and writ these words strait way . My hearts delight and only joy , kill me not with disdain , Vouchsafe that I may speak with thee so rid me out of pain . Resolve me sweetest I thee pray , why is thy hatred such ? I know no cause , unless it be , for loving thee too much . As is my name , so is my love , sweet Susan unto thee . True is my name , True is my love , and ever so shall be . My Love is Loyal , just , and good , kill me not with disdain , Rather do me the courtesy , to love for love again . When she had read and understood , his mind and his intent , She then began to like and love , and yield him hearts content . John I am thine , if thou be'st mine , for ever and for aye , It was to try thy constancy , that I did say thee nay . But here's my hand , my heart & amp ; love , i'll never thee more deny : My love is constant firm and true , and shall be till I die . Then they embraced each others love , and joined in heart and voice , That she of him , and he of her had made so weet a choice . The second part , to the same Tune B Ut fortune that does often frown , where she before did smile , The men delight , the Maidens joy , full soon she did beguile . When she was settled in her love , then he would change his mind , And for to try her constancy , would be to her unkind . And thus resolved in his mind , he'd come to her no more , But went and wooed another Maid , which grieved her heart full soar . Quoth he , she proved unto me , hardhearted and unkind : But now her true love I have wone , i'll bear the self same mind . When she perceived his love to her , not as 'twas wont to be , She did lament sighs , weep and grieve , and then those words said she . Falsehearted wretch adieu , quoth she disloyal and unkind , And if I die for love of thee , thou shalt not know my mind . Woe to the time I did believe , that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen the tears of thy false eyn . Hard hap had I to set my love on one that mocked me , Sure all the Country did not yield a man so false as he . Thus was she brought to mean estate , all comfort from her fled , She did desire to speak with him , before that she was dead . Her friends did seek to cheer her up , and to make glad her mind , But she was killed with loving him , who proved to her unkind . Falsehearted man , may never Maid love thee as I have done . But may my death remembered be , to time that is to come . But may all maids example take by this my mournful death , And now Oh Lord receive my soul , to thee I yield my breath . Thus died the pattern of true love thus died a virtuous Maid , Thus died as good a harmless Lass , as thee love betrayed . Six Maids in white as custom is , did bear her to the grave , Her Parents grieve , lament & amp ; mou [ rn ] no child at all they have . When as her lover understood , for truth that she was dead , He raged , and ready was to tear the hair from off his head . But when he came unto the place where his true lover lay , He straightway ran unto the grave , and there these words did say . Susan , quoth he , i'll kiss thy grave , upon my bent knee , Whereby i'll show to all the world , how dear I loved thee . And as he lay upon the ground , he herd a voice to say , John True , if ever thou lov'dst me dear , make haste and come away . Then started he up from the grave , and stood like one struck dumb , And when he had regained his speech , he said , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his wits , he raged in piteous sort , That all the Neighbours presently were grieved at his report . And thus with sorrow and grief of heart he lay a whole fortnight And when he had confessed his fault , he yielded up his spirit . According to his hearts desire , and as he did request , They dug his grave , & amp ; laid him down by her whom he loved best . You youngmen all that have true loves , be sure unto your friend , And if you love , be sure your love , be true unto the end . And thus I end my story true , so full of grief and woe , May never any seek again , to wrong each other so . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . 