The woeful complaint , and lamentable death of a Forsaken Lover . To a pleasant New Tune . WORSER Own by a Forest as I did pass , To see abroad what sports there was , Walking by a pleasant Spring , The Birds in sundry notes did sing . Long time I wandered here and there , To see what Sports in Forest were ; At length I herd one make great moan , Saying , from me all joys are gone . I gave good heed unto the same , Musing from whence this Echo came ; And by no means I could devise From whence this sorrowful found did rise . But in that place I did remain , Until I herd it once again ; Where presently I herd one say , Oh Death , come take my life away : I looked down on my right hand , A sort of pleasant trees did stand ; And under them I did behold A pleasant place , with shadows cold : A sumptuous Seat was in the same , Musing from whence this Echo came : Then in this place I did perceive A Gentleman most fine and brave ; And from that place he did come down , Casting from him his Morning-Gown ; Walking up and down that place , Methought a proper man he was . Thus to himself he did lament , Wishing to God his days were spent ; His torments did increase so soar , His heart was able to bear no more : I stepped into a hollow tree , Because I would his passion see ; With folded arms , looking to ' the Skies , The tears , alas , stood in his Eyes . And careless of his Life , he seemed , Pity he was no more esteemed ; Then down he lay upon the ground ; No ease of sorrow could be found . Thus he lamented in woeful case , Seven long years , within few days ; Saying , while I live , I must remain , And find no help to ease my pain . For she that should my sorrows remove , She does disdain to be my Love ; And hath done so , since she did hear That I to her good will did bear ; You gods above come ease my pain , Sith heavy grief-doth it constrain ; For while my Corpse remain on Earth , She'll show the causes of my Death ; And every tree that here does stand , Shall be engraven with my hand , That they long time may Witness bear Love was the cause that I died here . Nature to her did so much right , And in as many Virtues dight , Scorning to take the help of art , As ever did embrace a Heart . Being so good , so truly tried , Oh some for less were Deified ; Full of pity as she may be , And yet perhaps not so to me ; When first I saw her pleasant face , Methought a pleasant sighed it was ; Her Beauty took my Wits away , I knew not how one word to say . A Gentleman took her to Dance , She gallantly her self did prance ; And kept her steps all in due time , Which made me wish she had been mine . But when I thought she had been mine own Then was she farthest from me flown ; She gave no ear unto my cry , Which makes me here in sorrow die F Or she then in another mind , Which to my pain I often find ; Of all hope's I am beguiled , Which makes me walk the woods so wild . To silent tries I made my moan , The birds and beasts did hear me groan ; Yet she that could my sorrows remove , Disloyal wretch to me did prove : My love to her was constant pure , And to my end shall so endure ; And Jove to her I hope will send , A grieved mind before her end : I have forsaken Friends and Kin , My days to end these Woods within ; My pleasure passed I now do leave Sweet Saviour Christ my Soul receive . Bear Witness , Heaven , of my grief , To ease my heart , send some relief ; Fair maids , unto you Loves be true , If the first be good , change not for a new . O youngmen all be warned by me , Gaze not too much on Women's beauty ; Lest that you be so fettered fast , You cannot be released at last . Some women's wiles are too much known In love once changing , stick to none ; They'll swear they love with their heart When tongue and mind are both apart . My love to her I did reveal , And nothing from her did conceal ; Though at first she seemed coy , She said I was her only joy ; And none but I her love should have , What need I any more to crave ? But Hoggard-like , she me abused , Another taken , and I refused . When he had bewailed his sorrows long , He took his Lute that by him hung ; And on the same he sweetly played While thereupon these Words he said ; Oh Death , when will that hour come , That I have waited for so long ? For while I live I languish still , Finding no help to ease my will . Then quite he flung his Lute away , And took his Sword that by him lay , Says , oft hast thou been-thy master's friend And now thou must his torment end . He gave true Sentence in that place , To end his life in woeful case , The Hilt he stuck into the Ground , And gave himself a deadly wound . Then unto him I ran amain , But Oh , alas , it was in vain : For long before to him I came , His Death he had upon the same : I found dis Grave was ready made , Wherein I thought he should be laid ; And in that place I laid him down , And overspread his morning-Gown . Over his Grave his Sword I laid , Whereby his death he had received ; Upon his Lute a Peal I Rung , And by the place his Lute I hung ; Then I beheld on every tree Her name that was his only joy ; Which long before his face did stand , Because she god the upper-hand . This Maiden that did all this wrong , to live a Maid thought it oF [ r ] e long ; But married was to such a one , As daily made her sighs and groan : Her coyness to her former love , Disloyal now does truly prove ; take he , fair Maidens , for you see Wrongs always will Revenged be . Printed for [ J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , .. ] The woeful complaint , and lamentable death of a Forsaken Lover . To a pleasant New Tune . WORSER Own by a Forest as I did pass , To see abroad what sports there was , Walking by a pleasant Spring , The Birds in sundry notes did sing . Long time I wandered here and there , To see what Sports in Forest were ; At length I herd one make great moan , Saying , from me all joys are gone . I gave good heed unto the same , Musing from whence this Echo came ; And by no means I could devise From whence this sorrowful found did rise . But in that place I did remain , Until I herd it once again ; Where presently I herd one say , Oh Death , come take my life away : I looked down on my right hand , A sort of pleasant trees did stand ; And under them I did behold A pleasant place , with shadows cold : A sumptuous Seat was in the same , Musing from whence this Echo came : Then in this place I did perceive A Gentleman most fine and brave ; And from that place he did come down , Casting from him his Morning-Gown ; Walking up and down that place , Methought a proper man he was . Thus to himself he did lament , Wishing to God his days were spent ; His torments did increase so soar , His heart was able to bear no more : I stepped into a hollow tree , Because I would his passion see ; With folded arms , looking to ' the Skies , The tears , alas , stood in his Eyes . And careless of his Life , he seemed , Pity he was no more esteemed ; Then down he lay upon the ground ; No ease of sorrow could be found . Thus he lamented in woeful case , Seven long years , within few days ; Saying , while I live , I must remain , And find no help to ease my pain . For she that should my sorrows remove , She does disdain to be my Love ; And hath done so , since she did hear That I to her good will did bear ; You gods above come ease my pain , Sith heavy grief-doth it constrain ; For while my Corpse remain on Earth , She'll show the causes of my Death ; And every tree that here does stand , Shall be engraven with my hand , That they long time may Witness bear Love was the cause that I died here . Nature to her did so much right , And in as many Virtues dight , Scorning to take the help of art , As ever did embrace a Heart . Being so good , so truly tried , Oh some for less were Deified ; Full of pity as she may be , And yet perhaps not so to me ; When first I saw her pleasant face , Methought a pleasant sighed it was ; Her Beauty took my Wits away , I knew not how one word to say . A Gentleman took her to Dance , She gallantly her self did prance ; And kept her steps all in due time , Which made me wish she had been mine . But when I thought she had been mine own Then was she farthest from me flown ; She gave no ear unto my cry , Which makes me here in sorrow die F Or she then in another mind , Which to my pain I often find ; Of all hope's I am beguiled , Which makes me walk the woods so wild . To silent tries I made my moan , The birds and beasts did hear me groan ; Yet she that could my sorrows remove , Disloyal wretch to me did prove : My love to her was constant pure , And to my end shall so endure ; And Jove to her I hope will send , A grieved mind before her end : I have forsaken Friends and Kin , My days to end these Woods within ; My pleasure passed I now do leave Sweet Saviour Christ my Soul receive . Bear Witness , Heaven , of my grief , To ease my heart , send some relief ; Fair maids , unto you Loves be true , If the first be good , change not for a new . O youngmen all be warned by me , Gaze not too much on Women's beauty ; Lest that you be so fettered fast , You cannot be released at last . Some women's wiles are too much known In love once changing , stick to none ; They'll swear they love with their heart When tongue and mind are both apart . My love to her I did reveal , And nothing from her did conceal ; Though at first she seemed coy , She said I was her only joy ; And none but I her love should have , What need I any more to crave ? But Hoggard-like , she me abused , Another taken , and I refused . When he had bewailed his sorrows long , He took his Lute that by him hung ; And on the same he sweetly played While thereupon these Words he said ; Oh Death , when will that hour come , That I have waited for so long ? For while I live I languish still , Finding no help to ease my will . Then quite he flung his Lute away , And took his Sword that by him lay , Says , oft hast thou been-thy master's friend And now thou must his torment end . He gave true Sentence in that place , To end his life in woeful case , The Hilt he stuck into the Ground , And gave himself a deadly wound . Then unto him I ran amain , But Oh , alas , it was in vain : For long before to him I came , His Death he had upon the same : I found dis Grave was ready made , Wherein I thought he should be laid ; And in that place I laid him down , And overspread his morning-Gown . Over his Grave his Sword I laid , Whereby his death he had received ; Upon his Lute a Peal I Rung , And by the place his Lute I hung ; Then I beheld on every tree Her name that was his only joy ; Which long before his face did stand , Because she god the upper-hand . This Maiden that did all this wrong , to live a Maid thought it oF [ r ] e long ; But married was to such a one , As daily made her sighs and groan : Her coyness to her former love , Disloyal now does truly prove ; take he , fair Maidens , for you see Wrongs always will Revenged be . Printed for [ J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , .. ] 