Olimpa's Unfortunate Love ; OR , GALLIUS his Treacherous Cruelty . A new Song , as it is Sung in a Play , called , The Spanish Fryer . At the Kings Theatre , with great applause . Fairest Olimpia at last being wone , Did yield to Gallius , who has her undone Her Honour's lost , & amp ; he does her neglect His ends being gained he shows her no respect : But flies her arms , while that false man she cries And in her Blood her fatal Dagger dies . To a pleasant new Play-House Tune . F Arewel ungrateful Traitor , farewell my perjured Swain [ L ] et never injured creature believe a man again : [ TO ] he pleasure of possessing , [ S ] urpasses all expressing , [ B ] ut it's too short a blessing , and love too long a pain . It's easy to deceive us , in pity of your pain . But when we love you leave us , to rail at you in vain : Before we have descried it , There is no bliss beside it , But she that once has tried it , will never love again . The passion you pretended , was only to obtain , But when the Charm is ended the Charmer you disdain : Your love by ours we measure , Till we have left our treasure , But dying is a pleasure , when living is a pain . For who would live in torment , to be each moment slave , By flames of love so fervent , enraged by men disdain : When death has power to ease us , Of all the woes that seize us , And sorrows that displease us , so never to grieve again . No tortures like to loving , and not be loved again , Yet we are oft approving , of such a fatal bane ; By crediting their wishes , Their toying and their kisses Which do but raise our blisses , to fallen beneath disdain . They only are for pleasure , our honours so to stain , Then let us grieve at leisure , they'll laugh when we complain : And still will prove more cruel By adding of new fuel , In which they think they do well , to martyr us with pain . While like the Phoenix frying , we in sweet Gums remain , They triumph in our dying , and boast they trophies gain But cruel man this faded , Since you my Love invaded , I will not be upbraided , first Death shall end my pain . O witness all you powers , how he my Love did gain , While oft in shady bowers he swore he would remain : The constantest of Lovers , But now my Loss discovers , How black my fate it hovers , and how his vows were vain . With that a sighs she breathed , while in her breast the flame Did struggle to be eased , when ah ! she did proclaim ; Too Cruel Galius flying , When thy Olimpia's dying , With gloomy eyes the eyeing , each corner of the plain . When as she Death's keen message out of her bosom drew , And gave it speedy passage , her life for to subdue ; Then cried false man , her passion Who first for you took Station , Fate weds passed alteration , Olympia Dies for you : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate [ . ] Olimpa's Unfortunate Love ; OR , GALLIUS his Treacherous Cruelty . A new Song , as it is Sung in a Play , called , The Spanish Fryer . At the Kings Theatre , with great applause . Fairest Olimpia at last being wone , Did yield to Gallius , who has her undone Her Honour's lost , & amp ; he does her neglect His ends being gained he shows her no respect : But flies her arms , while that false man she cries And in her Blood her fatal Dagger dies . To a pleasant new Play-House Tune . F Arewel ungrateful Traitor , farewell my perjured Swain [ L ] et never injured creature believe a man again : [ TO ] he pleasure of possessing , [ S ] urpasses all expressing , [ B ] ut it's too short a blessing , and love too long a pain . It's easy to deceive us , in pity of your pain . But when we love you leave us , to rail at you in vain : Before we have descried it , There is no bliss beside it , But she that once has tried it , will never love again . The passion you pretended , was only to obtain , But when the Charm is ended the Charmer you disdain : Your love by ours we measure , Till we have left our treasure , But dying is a pleasure , when living is a pain . For who would live in torment , to be each moment slave , By flames of love so fervent , enraged by men disdain : When death has power to ease us , Of all the woes that seize us , And sorrows that displease us , so never to grieve again . No tortures like to loving , and not be loved again , Yet we are oft approving , of such a fatal bane ; By crediting their wishes , Their toying and their kisses Which do but raise our blisses , to fallen beneath disdain . They only are for pleasure , our honours so to stain , Then let us grieve at leisure , they'll laugh when we complain : And still will prove more cruel By adding of new fuel , In which they think they do well , to martyr us with pain . While like the Phoenix frying , we in sweet Gums remain , They triumph in our dying , and boast they trophies gain But cruel man this faded , Since you my Love invaded , I will not be upbraided , first Death shall end my pain . O witness all you powers , how he my Love did gain , While oft in shady bowers he swore he would remain : The constantest of Lovers , But now my Loss discovers , How black my fate it hovers , and how his vows were vain . With that a sighs she breathed , while in her breast the flame Did struggle to be eased , when ah ! she did proclaim ; Too Cruel Galius flying , When thy Olimpia's dying , With gloomy eyes the eyeing , each corner of the plain . When as she Death's keen message out of her bosom drew , And gave it speedy passage , her life for to subdue ; Then cried false man , her passion Who first for you took Station , Fate weds passed alteration , Olympia Dies for you : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate [ . ] 