The last Dying Words of Robert Boxall , of Petworth , TO HIS Falsehearted Lover , Margaret Mills . To the Tune of , Farewell my dear Johnny , etc . Licensed according to Order . F Arewel my dear Peggy , whom I loved so , Your absence to me has created my woe , Because I believed your flattering Tongue , Which deceitfully left me in Sorrow undone ; But I will forgive you with all my whole Heart , Yet cursed be the Minuit & amp ; and Time we did part ; Of all Women living , your false as God's true , And so , my dear Peggy , I bid you adieu : For since I do find you both false and unkind , I'll set it as light as the wavering Wind : My Means , it seems , was too slender , therefore You married Ned Slarkes , that Son of a Whore . God send you more Means , and I better Grace , I hope to prepare for a far better place , Where flattering Lovers can never molest My Happiness , being for ever at rest . Remember , dear Peggy , there is a day to come , On which you must answer for all you have done , In making such large Protestations to me ; Oh! pardon , good Lord , for I can't pardon she . Oh! pity Peggy for her covetous Mind , Which was the first cause of her proving unkind ; Her Promise she broke for a hump-baked Mate , I wish that she does not repent it too late . If Peggy so true unto me had been , Then all these Sorrows I never had seen ; But I must complain of her being unjust , For where is the Maid that a Man now can trust ? I strive to forget it as well as I can ; Yet , nevertheless , when I think of the Woman , How she with her flattering Tongue did deceive My innocent Heart , now in Sorrow I grieve . As I do Work , there Weeping I fit , And find that I cannot my Peggy forget ; That Love which is rooted and lacked in my Heart , 'Twas a pleasure to meet , but a sorrow to part . Could I but be freed from the pleasures of Love , I solemnly swear , by the Powers above , This firm Resolution I'll readily make , Never to believe a young Maid for her sake . But Peggy may grow wealthy & amp ; flourish a while , So long as kind Fortune is pleased to smile ; But if I should die for you , now after all , You then may be sorry to think of my Fallen . Be careful young Men , what ever you do , Lest flattering Maidens , they ruinate you ; By woeful experience , alas ! I may say , She studied my innocent Heart to betray . London : Printed for J. Blare , on London-bridge . The last Dying Words of Robert Boxall , of Petworth , TO HIS Falsehearted Lover , Margaret Mills . To the Tune of , Farewell my dear Johnny , etc . Licensed according to Order . F Arewel my dear Peggy , whom I loved so , Your absence to me has created my woe , Because I believed your flattering Tongue , Which deceitfully left me in Sorrow undone ; But I will forgive you with all my whole Heart , Yet cursed be the Minuit & amp ; and Time we did part ; Of all Women living , your false as God's true , And so , my dear Peggy , I bid you adieu : For since I do find you both false and unkind , I'll set it as light as the wavering Wind : My Means , it seems , was too slender , therefore You married Ned Slarkes , that Son of a Whore . God send you more Means , and I better Grace , I hope to prepare for a far better place , Where flattering Lovers can never molest My Happiness , being for ever at rest . Remember , dear Peggy , there is a day to come , On which you must answer for all you have done , In making such large Protestations to me ; Oh! pardon , good Lord , for I can't pardon she . Oh! pity Peggy for her covetous Mind , Which was the first cause of her proving unkind ; Her Promise she broke for a hump-baked Mate , I wish that she does not repent it too late . If Peggy so true unto me had been , Then all these Sorrows I never had seen ; But I must complain of her being unjust , For where is the Maid that a Man now can trust ? I strive to forget it as well as I can ; Yet , nevertheless , when I think of the Woman , How she with her flattering Tongue did deceive My innocent Heart , now in Sorrow I grieve . As I do Work , there Weeping I fit , And find that I cannot my Peggy forget ; That Love which is rooted and lacked in my Heart , 'Twas a pleasure to meet , but a sorrow to part . Could I but be freed from the pleasures of Love , I solemnly swear , by the Powers above , This firm Resolution I'll readily make , Never to believe a young Maid for her sake . But Peggy may grow wealthy & amp ; flourish a while , So long as kind Fortune is pleased to smile ; But if I should die for you , now after all , You then may be sorry to think of my Fallen . Be careful young Men , what ever you do , Lest flattering Maidens , they ruinate you ; By woeful experience , alas ! I may say , She studied my innocent Heart to betray . London : Printed for J. Blare , on London-bridge . 