The Dying Tears of a true lover-forsaken , Made on his Deathbed ; the Hour before his Death . The Tune is , Come live with me . TO Hose gentle hearts that true love crave , Where true love can no harbour have , From shedding tears cannot refrain , But mourn with me that loved in vain , Soar sick in love soar sick in mind , Come gentle death my life unwind , For Cupids shaft and golden Bow , Now seeks my joys to overthrow . Upon my deathbed I have penned , The story of my woeful end ; Vain world behold I die I die Here murdered by loves cruelty : Oh Sarah Hill how art the Wight , That turned my joy to sharp delight , Thou art the causer of my death , Farewell false love farewell my breath . Be warned you wantons by my fallen , In love there is no truth at all ; Although in love you live untrue , There is some maids as false as you : Her beauty dazzled so mine eyes That in her breast my heart st [ i ] ll lies , I loved her but she loved not me , Wherefore behold I die I die . O cursed eyes why did you gaze , Upon her fair and flattering face Oh wherefore did my eyes unfold ; One framed of such unconstant mould : Come wrap me in my winding-sheet , And bear me sadly through the street , That from her eyes salt tears may shed , When for her sake she sees me dead . In outward show we joined hands , And loved to live in Wedlock bans , But she unkind hath me despised , And broke my heart so highly prized : Oh Lord what grief do I sustain , Which lived despised , and loved in vain , But Lord how well are they paid , Which hap to choose a constant Maid . There is no living wight that knows , The pining pain and endless woes , That we forsaken Lovers hide , But such as have their torments tried ; I needs must yield when death does fade , Death's coming cannot be denied : Oh reach my Bible , pray to me , For that my Souls true love shall be . Go tole my pasing-bell dear friends , For here a Lovers journey ends , But mark what fortune she will have , When she hath closed me in the Grave , I do not doubt but you shall see , Her body paid in misery : And made a laughingstock to those , Who now her great unkindness knows . You of the Gentlecraft that be , Show this kind favour unto me , That to the world this mournful song , Be chanted sweetly you among , And some of you I do request , To bear me to my longing rest , And lay my carcase in the ground , With ringing Bells' melodious found . To my dear love then go and say , Her change of mind cast me away , Bid her hard heart more constant prove , To him that next shall be her love : With that he yielding up his life , Where Death gave end to further strife , Desiring God that sits in Heaven , His lovers sins might be forgiven . Thus have you herd Hugh Hills good mind Who never proved in love unkind , But to his end continued true , Not changing old friend for a new . FINIS . The second Part , to the same Tune . C Ome young Lasses and listen well , Unto the tale that I shall tell , For unto you I will unfold , A matter worthy to be told : There was a youngman loved me well , A Shoemaker his name Hugh Hill , His heart with love did burn amain , And I seemed to love him again . Then were we made sure together , But I unconstant as the weather , Did him forsake , I was so nice , When in the Church was asked thrice : When that he saw I was unkind , And that I had a cruel mind , For love of me he left his life , Because I would not be his wife . I never cared what he did say , But suffered him to pine away , And when he yielded up his breath , I quickly had forgotten his death ; But in my bed upon a time , As many things came in my mind , There smiling to my self I said , I think that I shall die a Maid . Then many a Youth I thought upon , I loved and fancied many a one , I hated some , and some reserved , To like and love as they deserved , But in the midst of all my choice , I herd a lamentable voice , With Music sounding to the ear , But not to me as did appear . For when I herd what it might be , And the cause of this melody , Then at my window a voice did cry , Hugh Hill id dead , fie , Sarah , fie ; My Conscience then tormented me , Of my false heart and treachery , And evermore the voice would cry , Go pine they self , repent and die . Methought it was the voice of Hugh , Of good Hugh Hill that was so true , That was so faithful unto me , Yet used him most wickedly : Oh there he did my faults express , And I the same must needs confefs , For I killed him with cruelty , For which I would , but cannot die . And since that time my heart is light , And all my body altered quite , My eyes are sunk into my head , Which makes me look like one that's dead My face that was so fresh and fine , As clear as is the Claret wine , Is now transformed to another hue , Borth grim and loathsome to the view . My Skin is withered my flesh is gone , And nothing left but skin and bone , And now I pine most woefully , I wish for Death but cannot die : Therefore sweet maids that suitors have Yield unto them that true love crave , Oh do not cast a many away , Lest you your selves go to decay . If unto you a Youngman come , You are so fine you'll never have none , Until your beauty fade away , You scorn most men you are so coy , Fie , fie , remember what you are , Do not refuse while you are fair , Unto your true loves be not coy , It's good to take them while you may . As you be coy so I have been , But see the misery I live in , That was it not for my Souls health , I could be willing to kill my self : Therefore fair Maids amend in time , Lest that your woes be like to mine , And pray to God to end my grief , Or else to rid me of my life . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Dying Tears of a true lover-forsaken , Made on his Deathbed ; the Hour before his Death . The Tune is , Come live with me . TO Hose gentle hearts that true love crave , Where true love can no harbour have , From shedding tears cannot refrain , But mourn with me that loved in vain , Soar sick in love soar sick in mind , Come gentle death my life unwind , For Cupids shaft and golden Bow , Now seeks my joys to overthrow . Upon my deathbed I have penned , The story of my woeful end ; Vain world behold I die I die Here murdered by loves cruelty : Oh Sarah Hill how art the Wight , That turned my joy to sharp delight , Thou art the causer of my death , Farewell false love farewell my breath . Be warned you wantons by my fallen , In love there is no truth at all ; Although in love you live untrue , There is some maids as false as you : Her beauty dazzled so mine eyes That in her breast my heart st [ i ] ll lies , I loved her but she loved not me , Wherefore behold I die I die . O cursed eyes why did you gaze , Upon her fair and flattering face Oh wherefore did my eyes unfold ; One framed of such unconstant mould : Come wrap me in my winding-sheet , And bear me sadly through the street , That from her eyes salt tears may shed , When for her sake she sees me dead . In outward show we joined hands , And loved to live in Wedlock bans , But she unkind hath me despised , And broke my heart so highly prized : Oh Lord what grief do I sustain , Which lived despised , and loved in vain , But Lord how well are they paid , Which hap to choose a constant Maid . There is no living wight that knows , The pining pain and endless woes , That we forsaken Lovers hide , But such as have their torments tried ; I needs must yield when death does fade , Death's coming cannot be denied : Oh reach my Bible , pray to me , For that my Souls true love shall be . Go tole my pasing-bell dear friends , For here a Lovers journey ends , But mark what fortune she will have , When she hath closed me in the Grave , I do not doubt but you shall see , Her body paid in misery : And made a laughingstock to those , Who now her great unkindness knows . You of the Gentlecraft that be , Show this kind favour unto me , That to the world this mournful song , Be chanted sweetly you among , And some of you I do request , To bear me to my longing rest , And lay my carcase in the ground , With ringing Bells' melodious found . To my dear love then go and say , Her change of mind cast me away , Bid her hard heart more constant prove , To him that next shall be her love : With that he yielding up his life , Where Death gave end to further strife , Desiring God that sits in Heaven , His lovers sins might be forgiven . Thus have you herd Hugh Hills good mind Who never proved in love unkind , But to his end continued true , Not changing old friend for a new . FINIS . The second Part , to the same Tune . C Ome young Lasses and listen well , Unto the tale that I shall tell , For unto you I will unfold , A matter worthy to be told : There was a youngman loved me well , A Shoemaker his name Hugh Hill , His heart with love did burn amain , And I seemed to love him again . Then were we made sure together , But I unconstant as the weather , Did him forsake , I was so nice , When in the Church was asked thrice : When that he saw I was unkind , And that I had a cruel mind , For love of me he left his life , Because I would not be his wife . I never cared what he did say , But suffered him to pine away , And when he yielded up his breath , I quickly had forgotten his death ; But in my bed upon a time , As many things came in my mind , There smiling to my self I said , I think that I shall die a Maid . Then many a Youth I thought upon , I loved and fancied many a one , I hated some , and some reserved , To like and love as they deserved , But in the midst of all my choice , I herd a lamentable voice , With Music sounding to the ear , But not to me as did appear . For when I herd what it might be , And the cause of this melody , Then at my window a voice did cry , Hugh Hill id dead , fie , Sarah , fie ; My Conscience then tormented me , Of my false heart and treachery , And evermore the voice would cry , Go pine they self , repent and die . Methought it was the voice of Hugh , Of good Hugh Hill that was so true , That was so faithful unto me , Yet used him most wickedly : Oh there he did my faults express , And I the same must needs confefs , For I killed him with cruelty , For which I would , but cannot die . And since that time my heart is light , And all my body altered quite , My eyes are sunk into my head , Which makes me look like one that's dead My face that was so fresh and fine , As clear as is the Claret wine , Is now transformed to another hue , Borth grim and loathsome to the view . My Skin is withered my flesh is gone , And nothing left but skin and bone , And now I pine most woefully , I wish for Death but cannot die : Therefore sweet maids that suitors have Yield unto them that true love crave , Oh do not cast a many away , Lest you your selves go to decay . If unto you a Youngman come , You are so fine you'll never have none , Until your beauty fade away , You scorn most men you are so coy , Fie , fie , remember what you are , Do not refuse while you are fair , Unto your true loves be not coy , It's good to take them while you may . As you be coy so I have been , But see the misery I live in , That was it not for my Souls health , I could be willing to kill my self : Therefore fair Maids amend in time , Lest that your woes be like to mine , And pray to God to end my grief , Or else to rid me of my life . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 