Unfortunate JOCKEY , And mournful JENNY . Jocke was by Sawny slave , Whicy htroubled Jenny soar , In sorrow now she does remain . And vows to love no more . To and excellent new playhouse Tune . TO Woe bonny Lads were Sawny and Jockey , Sawny was rude , but Jockey unlucky , Sawny was tall , well-favoured and witty , but I'm in my heart thought Jockey more pretty For when he sued me , wooed me , and viewed me never was man so like to undo me . Fie I cried , and almost died , lest Jockey should gang & amp ; come no more to me . Jockey would love but he would not marry , and I'm had a dread that I'm should miscarry , His cunning Tongue with wit was so guilded , that i'm was afraid my heart would have yielded For daily he pressed me , kissed me , & amp ; blessed me , low was the hour methought when he [ missed ] me , Trying , denying , and sighing I wooed him , and muckle ado I had to get from him . But cruel fate robbed me of my Jewel , for Sawny would make him fight in a duel , And down in a Dale with Cypress surrounded , o there to his death poor Jockey was wounded But when he thrilled him , felled him , & amp ; killed him who could express my grief that beheld him , Raging I tore my hair for to bind him , and vowed and swore never to stay behind him . I sighed and sobbed until I was weary , to think my Jockey should so miscarry , And never was any in such a sad taking as I hapless Jenny , whose heart is still aching , To think how I crossed him , tossed him , and lost him too late it was to coin words to accost him , Alone then I sat lamenting and crying , still wishing each minute that I were a dying . The second Part , to the same Tune . Ah! Jo [ c ] key , since thou behind thee hast left me , and death of all joys & amp ; all comforts bereft me , Thy Destiny I will lament very much and down my pale cheeks salt tears they shall trickle To ease me of trouble each bubble shall double , to think of my Jockey so Loyal and Noble , I'll grieve to think that those eyes are benighted wherein mournful Jenny so much once delighted That blow , o ! Sawny , was base and unlucky , that robbed poor Jenny of her dearest Jockey , A bonny boon Youth 'twas known he was ever , to please his poor Jenny was still his endeavour But 'twas fortune uncertain , our parting procured & amp ; caused this heart breaking smarting , But whilst I do like , it's resolved by Jenny for Jockey's dear sake never to lig with any . Thus Jenny for Jockey lay sighing & amp ; weeping , oft wringing her hands while others was slaping But Sawny to see her thus strangely distressed for the loss of her love , his heart was oppressed , Thou this deluder viewed her , and sued her , 'twas all but in vain , for she called him intruder And said if you die for my love I will mock you , for you were the cause of the death of my Jockey That bonny brave Scot hath left none behind him that like to himself was deserving of minding , His Father's delight , and the joy of his Mother , & amp ; Scotland before never b [ r ? ] worser [ ? ] answer : When I think on his beauty let duty confute you , Death never before had such a great booty , For all that do know him do sighs and bewail him but Ocean's of Tears now can little avail him Ah! Jockey there's none that are left to inherit the tyth of thy virtues , thou wondered merit , But while I do live thou shalt never be forgotten , I'll sing out thy praise when thy carcase is rot-ten For thou wertenberg the fairest , rarest , and dearest , & amp ; now thou art dead like a Saint thou appearest I'l have on thy Tombstone these Verses inserted Here lies hapless Jockey who was so true hearted And when this thy Motto shall fairly be written there's none shall read but with grief shall be smitten & amp ; say 'twas pity that one so truehearted should by cruel death from his Jenny be parted . And thus I will weeping , creeping , and peeping look into thy Grave where thou dost lie sleeping Till sighing my self I have brought to my end , so show that poor Jenny was Jockeys true friend Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery & amp ; T. Passenger . Unfortunate JOCKEY , And mournful JENNY . Jocke was by Sawny slave , Whicy htroubled Jenny soar , In sorrow now she does remain . And vows to love no more . To and excellent new playhouse Tune . TO Woe bonny Lads were Sawny and Jockey , Sawny was rude , but Jockey unlucky , Sawny was tall , well-favoured and witty , but I'm in my heart thought Jockey more pretty For when he sued me , wooed me , and viewed me never was man so like to undo me . Fie I cried , and almost died , lest Jockey should gang & amp ; come no more to me . Jockey would love but he would not marry , and I'm had a dread that I'm should miscarry , His cunning Tongue with wit was so guilded , that i'm was afraid my heart would have yielded For daily he pressed me , kissed me , & amp ; blessed me , low was the hour methought when he [ missed ] me , Trying , denying , and sighing I wooed him , and muckle ado I had to get from him . But cruel fate robbed me of my Jewel , for Sawny would make him fight in a duel , And down in a Dale with Cypress surrounded , o there to his death poor Jockey was wounded But when he thrilled him , felled him , & amp ; killed him who could express my grief that beheld him , Raging I tore my hair for to bind him , and vowed and swore never to stay behind him . I sighed and sobbed until I was weary , to think my Jockey should so miscarry , And never was any in such a sad taking as I hapless Jenny , whose heart is still aching , To think how I crossed him , tossed him , and lost him too late it was to coin words to accost him , Alone then I sat lamenting and crying , still wishing each minute that I were a dying . The second Part , to the same Tune . Ah! Jo [ c ] key , since thou behind thee hast left me , and death of all joys & amp ; all comforts bereft me , Thy Destiny I will lament very much and down my pale cheeks salt tears they shall trickle To ease me of trouble each bubble shall double , to think of my Jockey so Loyal and Noble , I'll grieve to think that those eyes are benighted wherein mournful Jenny so much once delighted That blow , o ! Sawny , was base and unlucky , that robbed poor Jenny of her dearest Jockey , A bonny boon Youth 'twas known he was ever , to please his poor Jenny was still his endeavour But 'twas fortune uncertain , our parting procured & amp ; caused this heart breaking smarting , But whilst I do like , it's resolved by Jenny for Jockey's dear sake never to lig with any . Thus Jenny for Jockey lay sighing & amp ; weeping , oft wringing her hands while others was slaping But Sawny to see her thus strangely distressed for the loss of her love , his heart was oppressed , Thou this deluder viewed her , and sued her , 'twas all but in vain , for she called him intruder And said if you die for my love I will mock you , for you were the cause of the death of my Jockey That bonny brave Scot hath left none behind him that like to himself was deserving of minding , His Father's delight , and the joy of his Mother , & amp ; Scotland before never b [ r ? ] worser [ ? ] answer : When I think on his beauty let duty confute you , Death never before had such a great booty , For all that do know him do sighs and bewail him but Ocean's of Tears now can little avail him Ah! Jockey there's none that are left to inherit the tyth of thy virtues , thou wondered merit , But while I do live thou shalt never be forgotten , I'll sing out thy praise when thy carcase is rot-ten For thou wertenberg the fairest , rarest , and dearest , & amp ; now thou art dead like a Saint thou appearest I'l have on thy Tombstone these Verses inserted Here lies hapless Jockey who was so true hearted And when this thy Motto shall fairly be written there's none shall read but with grief shall be smitten & amp ; say 'twas pity that one so truehearted should by cruel death from his Jenny be parted . And thus I will weeping , creeping , and peeping look into thy Grave where thou dost lie sleeping Till sighing my self I have brought to my end , so show that poor Jenny was Jockeys true friend Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery & amp ; T. Passenger . 