And Answer to The Merchant's Son of Exeter ; Showing how he fell in love with a Young Damsel , and after he solemnly prote - stead to be her Loyal Love , wishing the Sea might be his Grave , if he proved falce , yet after all left her , and Married another . With and Account how he was di - stracted in Mind for his falce hearted disloyalty , and met at length with his wished for destiny . To the Tune of O how can I be merry or Glad . Licensed according to Order . WORSER isloyal lovers listen now , unto these lines which here are penned ; For if you should break a solemn vow , you may by rewarded in the end . A Merchant's Son of Exeter , thus to a Damsel did complain , That he should die for the sake of her , if she did not grant him love again . Sweet Charming Saint ( he often cried ) be kind , be kind , and pity me ; For if that my fruit should by denied , no joy in this world I ever shall see . Youngmen falsehearted are she said , when they the greatest kindness show : As soon as our hearts they have betrayed , why straight to another lass they go . Dearest , my solemn vow isle keep , true to the Bonds of loyalty , Or let me be swallowed in the deep , if ever I once prove false to thee , S Aid she , here's hand and heart I give , all that is mine shall be thine own , If ever I Marry while I live , my love , it shall be to thee alone . After those solemn vows had passed , he like a false deceitful Knave , Did leave her to languish at the last ; and sent her with sorrow to the Grave . He took another lass , behold , who had bright Guineys more than she ; And thus for the sake of cursed Gold , this Gallant was guilty of Perjury . The Marriage knot now being tied , he was Tormented night and day ; In private he often wept , and cried , it's I that have cast her life away . The Bride whom I have Married now , does yield but small delight to me ; Because I have broke a solemn vow , and Ruined a loyal love , said he . Nay , Conscience in my face does fly , and tells me that I guilty stand , No quiet , nor peace , this day have I , Therefore I resolve to leave the land . Why did my Friends persuade their Son , to Marry thus for Gold alone , By which I to utter Ruin run , I wish that Bride I had never known . The Tarment which I under go , no Tongue is able to relate ; My sorrowful eyes with Tears does flow , yet no one can pity my wretched state . I might have enjoyed the sweetest Bride as ever was born in Devonshire , For my sake alone sweet Soul she died , and left her false lover to languish here . I have not and hours rest at most , and then strange dreams runs in my head , My thanks I behold her bleeding Ghost , still hovering , hovering , round my bed . Farewell my Wife and Parents Dear , this very morning I'll on board , On the wide Ocean my cost I'll steer , the which may some comfort and joy afford ; They hoist up sail , and left the shore , but on a most unhappy day , The Seas did foam , and the Winds did roar , and they in a Tempest was cast away . Yet all the Men was saved but he , who wished the Sea might be his grave , And thus for his false disloyalty , his Tomb was a watery roaring Wave . Thus for the sake of Gold alone , he wronged his love and conscience too , When sinking he gave a bitter groan , and thus did he bid the world adieu . P rinted for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . And Answer to The Merchant's Son of Exeter ; Showing how he fell in love with a Young Damsel , and after he solemnly prote - stead to be her Loyal Love , wishing the Sea might be his Grave , if he proved falce , yet after all left her , and Married another . With and Account how he was di - stracted in Mind for his falce hearted disloyalty , and met at length with his wished for destiny . To the Tune of O how can I be merry or Glad . Licensed according to Order . WORSER isloyal lovers listen now , unto these lines which here are penned ; For if you should break a solemn vow , you may by rewarded in the end . A Merchant's Son of Exeter , thus to a Damsel did complain , That he should die for the sake of her , if she did not grant him love again . Sweet Charming Saint ( he often cried ) be kind , be kind , and pity me ; For if that my fruit should by denied , no joy in this world I ever shall see . Youngmen falsehearted are she said , when they the greatest kindness show : As soon as our hearts they have betrayed , why straight to another lass they go . Dearest , my solemn vow isle keep , true to the Bonds of loyalty , Or let me be swallowed in the deep , if ever I once prove false to thee , S Aid she , here's hand and heart I give , all that is mine shall be thine own , If ever I Marry while I live , my love , it shall be to thee alone . After those solemn vows had passed , he like a false deceitful Knave , Did leave her to languish at the last ; and sent her with sorrow to the Grave . He took another lass , behold , who had bright Guineys more than she ; And thus for the sake of cursed Gold , this Gallant was guilty of Perjury . The Marriage knot now being tied , he was Tormented night and day ; In private he often wept , and cried , it's I that have cast her life away . The Bride whom I have Married now , does yield but small delight to me ; Because I have broke a solemn vow , and Ruined a loyal love , said he . Nay , Conscience in my face does fly , and tells me that I guilty stand , No quiet , nor peace , this day have I , Therefore I resolve to leave the land . Why did my Friends persuade their Son , to Marry thus for Gold alone , By which I to utter Ruin run , I wish that Bride I had never known . The Tarment which I under go , no Tongue is able to relate ; My sorrowful eyes with Tears does flow , yet no one can pity my wretched state . I might have enjoyed the sweetest Bride as ever was born in Devonshire , For my sake alone sweet Soul she died , and left her false lover to languish here . I have not and hours rest at most , and then strange dreams runs in my head , My thanks I behold her bleeding Ghost , still hovering , hovering , round my bed . Farewell my Wife and Parents Dear , this very morning I'll on board , On the wide Ocean my cost I'll steer , the which may some comfort and joy afford ; They hoist up sail , and left the shore , but on a most unhappy day , The Seas did foam , and the Winds did roar , and they in a Tempest was cast away . Yet all the Men was saved but he , who wished the Sea might be his grave , And thus for his false disloyalty , his Tomb was a watery roaring Wave . Thus for the sake of Gold alone , he wronged his love and conscience too , When sinking he gave a bitter groan , and thus did he bid the world adieu . P rinted for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 