The Maidens Tragedy : OR , A brief Account of a Young Damsel near Wolverhampton , who Cut her Throat in Despair , because she could not habe the Man she Loved . To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . N Ear Wolverhampton lived a Maid , who fell into Despair ; Her yielding Heart was soon betrayed into Love's fatal Snare : A Youngman courted her , we find , and s [ e ] eming Love did show ; Yet after all , he proved unkind , which wrought her Overthrow . Here do I languish in distress , the youthful Damsel cried , To see his most unfaithfulness , All round on every side , I nothing see but Clouds of Grief , and Storms of bitter woe , It's Death alone must yield Relief , Love proves my Overthrow . Falsehearted Thomas call to mind , The solemn Vows you made , That you would never prove unkind , and can you now degrade Your Loyal Lover now at last ; and fill my Heart with woe ; Which will my Life and Glory blast , and prove my Overthrow . I Courted was , both day and night , at length I gave Consent ; This done , my Love he straight did slight , and leaves me to lament As if he took delight to see mine Eyes like Fountains flow , O most ungrateful Man , said she , Love proves my Ovrthrow . Not long ago he did adore my very Charms he cried ; Was ever Man so false before , in all the World beside ! A harmelss Lover to deceive and drown in tears of Woe : This World I am resolved to leave Love proves , etc The killing Torment that I feel does such a Passion raise That I not longer can conceal the Sorrows of my days ; I'll hasten Death this very day , to ease my Heart of Woe ; I find there is no other way , Love proves my Overthrow . Thus being filled with Discontent , She took a bloody Knife , In desperate sort resolved and bent to cut the Thread of Life : Down from her Throat the reeking Gore , in purple streams did flow , And though she lay a week and more , it proved her Overthrow . With Grief and Sorrow compassed round , she languished night and day ; At length her fatal bleeding Wound did take her quite away : And all along before she died , her Eyes with Tears did flow , Likewise she wrung her hands and cried , Love proves my Overthrow . Farewell to him who is the Cause , of all my grief and care ; Had he been true to Cupid is Laws , I solemnly declare We might have lived in happiness in Love and Peace I know ; But Sorrow does my Soul oppress and proves my Overthrow . Though now at present he may have Content , and Pleasure find , When I am sleeping in my Grave he then will call to mind Who caused this present wretched State , and fill his Heart with Woe , And then he may repent too late my dismal Overthrow . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Maidens Tragedy : OR , A brief Account of a Young Damsel near Wolverhampton , who Cut her Throat in Despair , because she could not habe the Man she Loved . To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . N Ear Wolverhampton lived a Maid , who fell into Despair ; Her yielding Heart was soon betrayed into Love's fatal Snare : A Youngman courted her , we find , and s [ e ] eming Love did show ; Yet after all , he proved unkind , which wrought her Overthrow . Here do I languish in distress , the youthful Damsel cried , To see his most unfaithfulness , All round on every side , I nothing see but Clouds of Grief , and Storms of bitter woe , It's Death alone must yield Relief , Love proves my Overthrow . Falsehearted Thomas call to mind , The solemn Vows you made , That you would never prove unkind , and can you now degrade Your Loyal Lover now at last ; and fill my Heart with woe ; Which will my Life and Glory blast , and prove my Overthrow . I Courted was , both day and night , at length I gave Consent ; This done , my Love he straight did slight , and leaves me to lament As if he took delight to see mine Eyes like Fountains flow , O most ungrateful Man , said she , Love proves my Ovrthrow . Not long ago he did adore my very Charms he cried ; Was ever Man so false before , in all the World beside ! A harmelss Lover to deceive and drown in tears of Woe : This World I am resolved to leave Love proves , etc The killing Torment that I feel does such a Passion raise That I not longer can conceal the Sorrows of my days ; I'll hasten Death this very day , to ease my Heart of Woe ; I find there is no other way , Love proves my Overthrow . Thus being filled with Discontent , She took a bloody Knife , In desperate sort resolved and bent to cut the Thread of Life : Down from her Throat the reeking Gore , in purple streams did flow , And though she lay a week and more , it proved her Overthrow . With Grief and Sorrow compassed round , she languished night and day ; At length her fatal bleeding Wound did take her quite away : And all along before she died , her Eyes with Tears did flow , Likewise she wrung her hands and cried , Love proves my Overthrow . Farewell to him who is the Cause , of all my grief and care ; Had he been true to Cupid is Laws , I solemnly declare We might have lived in happiness in Love and Peace I know ; But Sorrow does my Soul oppress and proves my Overthrow . Though now at present he may have Content , and Pleasure find , When I am sleeping in my Grave he then will call to mind Who caused this present wretched State , and fill his Heart with Woe , And then he may repent too late my dismal Overthrow . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 