THE Mournful Maid of Berkshire : CONTAINING Her Woeful Lamentation for her dearly beloved Maidenhead , which she unfortunately lost upon the Wheat-mow , with lusty Dick the Dung-man . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . Licensed . ATend you Friends and Parents dear , Unto this sad Relation here , Which to the World I here unfold , A greater Truth cannot be told : When Men to Wickedness are bent , And Parents give their joint-consent , To the Commission of their Crimes , Well may we say , Sad is the times . Friends ought for to instruct them so , That they the Laws of God might know ; But some are of another mind , As by this Sequel you shall find : Their lives a Woman in Berkshire , Who has one lubey Son we hear , And he endeavoured night and day , A modest Damosel to betray . That lived with his Mother then ; She could not be at quiet , when He found her all alone , for still He pressed to gain her kind good will . The modest Damosel often cried , His wanton suit must be denied ; Yet never the less , this would not do , For still he did his ends pursue . Sometime he'd to her Chamber creep , When she perhaps was fast asleep , Thinking he might acceptance find , But she was of another mind : And would not yield to his Request , Yet he'd not let her be at rest , Swearing that he himself would kill , If he of her had not his will . Say what you will , it's all in vain , My Reputation i'll not stain ; Forbear your importunity , Why should you strive to ruin me . If you do not your suit forbear , Then do I solemnly declare , Your Mother , she the truth shall know , How you would seek my overthrow . He never valued what she said , So that at length this modest Maid , Informed his Mother out of hand , Who gave the Lass , this Repremand , Why Housewife , Housewife , she replied Why must my Son be thus denied , Let him enjoy his Heart's Delight , Perhaps he may your love requite : For if by him with Child you prove , My Son I will in kindness move To take you for his lawful Wife , Then will you led a happy life . The Maid was loath to trust to this , But said , I pray sweet Mistress . Let me go seek some other place , For fear he brings me to disgra [ c ] e . Her Dame replied , As I am true , I can't , nor will not part with you ; Therefore pray set your heart at ease , And see my Son you strive to please . Soon after this , he chanced to meet The Damosel on a Mow of Wheat , Whom he with vows soon over came . And [ r ] eapt what I forbear to name . Now when the Damosel proved with Child , She then was bitterly reviled , Both by the Mother and the Son , They from their former vows did run . The Damosel then in sad distress , With grief of heart and heaviness , Cried out , Behold my wretched state , A Creature most unfortunate . Would I the Wretch had never known For here in bitter tears of moan , I do my Lamentation make , This heart of mine with grief will break . the youthful Damsels , fair and young , Take care that no deluding tongue ; Does ever ensnare you for you'll find , Men most unconstant , like the wind . They seldom valve what they swear , Therefore young Damsels all beware ; lest at the last you weep like me , In tears of sad extremity . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . THE Mournful Maid of Berkshire : CONTAINING Her Woeful Lamentation for her dearly beloved Maidenhead , which she unfortunately lost upon the Wheat-mow , with lusty Dick the Dung-man . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . Licensed . ATend you Friends and Parents dear , Unto this sad Relation here , Which to the World I here unfold , A greater Truth cannot be told : When Men to Wickedness are bent , And Parents give their joint-consent , To the Commission of their Crimes , Well may we say , Sad is the times . Friends ought for to instruct them so , That they the Laws of God might know ; But some are of another mind , As by this Sequel you shall find : Their lives a Woman in Berkshire , Who has one lubey Son we hear , And he endeavoured night and day , A modest Damosel to betray . That lived with his Mother then ; She could not be at quiet , when He found her all alone , for still He pressed to gain her kind good will . The modest Damosel often cried , His wanton suit must be denied ; Yet never the less , this would not do , For still he did his ends pursue . Sometime he'd to her Chamber creep , When she perhaps was fast asleep , Thinking he might acceptance find , But she was of another mind : And would not yield to his Request , Yet he'd not let her be at rest , Swearing that he himself would kill , If he of her had not his will . Say what you will , it's all in vain , My Reputation i'll not stain ; Forbear your importunity , Why should you strive to ruin me . If you do not your suit forbear , Then do I solemnly declare , Your Mother , she the truth shall know , How you would seek my overthrow . He never valued what she said , So that at length this modest Maid , Informed his Mother out of hand , Who gave the Lass , this Repremand , Why Housewife , Housewife , she replied Why must my Son be thus denied , Let him enjoy his Heart's Delight , Perhaps he may your love requite : For if by him with Child you prove , My Son I will in kindness move To take you for his lawful Wife , Then will you led a happy life . The Maid was loath to trust to this , But said , I pray sweet Mistress . Let me go seek some other place , For fear he brings me to disgra [ c ] e . Her Dame replied , As I am true , I can't , nor will not part with you ; Therefore pray set your heart at ease , And see my Son you strive to please . Soon after this , he chanced to meet The Damosel on a Mow of Wheat , Whom he with vows soon over came . And [ r ] eapt what I forbear to name . Now when the Damosel proved with Child , She then was bitterly reviled , Both by the Mother and the Son , They from their former vows did run . The Damosel then in sad distress , With grief of heart and heaviness , Cried out , Behold my wretched state , A Creature most unfortunate . Would I the Wretch had never known For here in bitter tears of moan , I do my Lamentation make , This heart of mine with grief will break . the youthful Damsels , fair and young , Take care that no deluding tongue ; Does ever ensnare you for you'll find , Men most unconstant , like the wind . They seldom valve what they swear , Therefore young Damsels all beware ; lest at the last you weep like me , In tears of sad extremity . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . 