The Ruined Lover : OR , THE Young Ladies Tragedy , Who being crossed in Love by her Parents , Poisoned her self near the Parish of St. Giles's . To the Tune of , What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to Order . TO Here was of late a young Beautiful Lady , whom the sweet Raptures of Love had possessed ; Her Dear pretender was wiliing and ready to Grant whatever her Heart could request : But her own Parents quite void of all pity , drove their own Darling almost to Despair , This was at length her right sorrowful Ditty , Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . Nothing but Sorrows I here am possessing , while my poor Eyes like two Fountains do's flow ; Seeing I thus am denied of the Blessing , no Creature know what I now undergo ; Most unkind Parents ! can you be so cruel as to occasion my Sighs , Griefs and Cares ? While I am kept from the sighed of my Jewel , Love is a Torment which no one can bear . When I first found that my Friends did degrade him for his dear sake I my Lodgings removed ; And a firm Promise immediately made him , to be as Loyal as ever was Love : But my Relations unhappily found me , I could not sorrowful weeping forbear ; Their Words like Darts of keen Arrows did wound me , Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . Still they endeavoured to set me against him saying of him they did no ways approve ; Therefore they have me with speed to refrain him , they might as easy high Mountains remove ; At what they said I was highly offended , being then just at the point of Despair ; I straight resolved this life should be ended Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . My Loyal Heart and Affections I gave him , therefore my Promise I never will break ; Yet after all , if they'll not let me have him , I am resolved to die for his sake : No other Gallant shall ever enjoy me , therefore this Potion I here do prepare , It is in Order this day to destroy me , Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . Farewell the World , for I soon shall expire . the Pains of Death having seized me all over ; Thou , whom I ever did Love and admire , cannot my Life nor my Blessings restore : They that have caused this dismal Confusion which filled my heart with true Sorrow and Care They will be troubled for this in conclusion ; Love is a Torment which no one can bear . 'Twas not for Wealth I desire to Marry , he was the Person that pleased my Eye ; Yet through misfortune my Life will miscarry , for like a Languishing Lover I Die : Come gentle Death now be pleased to befriend me , on you alone here I cast all my Care ; To the Elizium be pleased for to send me ; Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . You Lovers that shall hear this dismal Story , pity a Maidens Misfortune , I pray , Both Grief and Sorrow has blasted my Glory , bringing the blossoms of Youth to decay , Farewell my Lover a l a s ! I must leave thee , for her I die by the Hand of Despair ; I know the Loss of thy Lady will grief thee , Love is a Torment no Creature can bear . Printed for Charles Bates next to the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Ruined Lover : OR , THE Young Ladies Tragedy , Who being crossed in Love by her Parents , Poisoned her self near the Parish of St. Giles's . To the Tune of , What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to Order . TO Here was of late a young Beautiful Lady , whom the sweet Raptures of Love had possessed ; Her Dear pretender was wiliing and ready to Grant whatever her Heart could request : But her own Parents quite void of all pity , drove their own Darling almost to Despair , This was at length her right sorrowful Ditty , Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . Nothing but Sorrows I here am possessing , while my poor Eyes like two Fountains do's flow ; Seeing I thus am denied of the Blessing , no Creature know what I now undergo ; Most unkind Parents ! can you be so cruel as to occasion my Sighs , Griefs and Cares ? While I am kept from the sighed of my Jewel , Love is a Torment which no one can bear . When I first found that my Friends did degrade him for his dear sake I my Lodgings removed ; And a firm Promise immediately made him , to be as Loyal as ever was Love : But my Relations unhappily found me , I could not sorrowful weeping forbear ; Their Words like Darts of keen Arrows did wound me , Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . Still they endeavoured to set me against him saying of him they did no ways approve ; Therefore they have me with speed to refrain him , they might as easy high Mountains remove ; At what they said I was highly offended , being then just at the point of Despair ; I straight resolved this life should be ended Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . My Loyal Heart and Affections I gave him , therefore my Promise I never will break ; Yet after all , if they'll not let me have him , I am resolved to die for his sake : No other Gallant shall ever enjoy me , therefore this Potion I here do prepare , It is in Order this day to destroy me , Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . Farewell the World , for I soon shall expire . the Pains of Death having seized me all over ; Thou , whom I ever did Love and admire , cannot my Life nor my Blessings restore : They that have caused this dismal Confusion which filled my heart with true Sorrow and Care They will be troubled for this in conclusion ; Love is a Torment which no one can bear . 'Twas not for Wealth I desire to Marry , he was the Person that pleased my Eye ; Yet through misfortune my Life will miscarry , for like a Languishing Lover I Die : Come gentle Death now be pleased to befriend me , on you alone here I cast all my Care ; To the Elizium be pleased for to send me ; Love is a Torment which I cannot bear . You Lovers that shall hear this dismal Story , pity a Maidens Misfortune , I pray , Both Grief and Sorrow has blasted my Glory , bringing the blossoms of Youth to decay , Farewell my Lover a l a s ! I must leave thee , for her I die by the Hand of Despair ; I know the Loss of thy Lady will grief thee , Love is a Torment no Creature can bear . Printed for Charles Bates next to the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 