Answer to the Maiden's Tragedy : OR , The Lamentation of a Young Man , Near Wolverhampton , for the Death of a Young Maiden ; which of late has been a great Grief and Trouble to him , for his Unkindness to her . To the Tune of , Russel ' s Farewell . Y Ou Lovers all both far and near , pray listen to my moan ; I wronged my Love , my only Dear , the like was never known : I proved indeed her fatal fallen , by my Disloyalty , For which I fear in time I shall a sad Example be . Love thou art sleeping in the Grave , and I am left behind ; No peace or comfort can I have , but a tormented mind : The Heart within my Breast does bleed , no Pleasure can I see ; Ever thou hadst done that bloody Deed , would I had died for thee . What Protestations did I make , that I did thee adore ? Yet did at last my Love forsake , and this torments me soar : Sad Torments do I under go , for my Disloyalty , The Eyes of mine like Fountains flow , would I had died for thee . The Golden Chain of Love I broke , and did my promise slight , So that at length a fatal streak , did prove thy ruin quite : When at the point of sad di [ s ] pair , thou wroughtest this Tragedy ; My Soul is filled with grief and care , would I had died for thee . After a tedious long delay , we did together meet , And pitched upon our Wedding-day , our blessings to complete : She wai [ tO ] ed long yet all in vain , then with a sighs said she , True Love is a tormenting Pain , no Man so false as he . I seemed unconcerned then , though I her Heart betrayed ; And never came a near her when , this Piteous Moan she made : But now my Dearest thou art dead , and I no comfort see , All Joy and Peace is from me fled , would I had died for thee . I with the World could freely part , to be released from thrall ; Now I alone do feel the smart , for thou art passed it all : While I in Storms of Grief and Woe feel Endless Misery , This Grief I cannot under go , would I had died for thee . When ever I wander all alone , methinks her voice I hear , And sometime with a dying groan , which kills my Heart with fear : Then do I start and turn away , as frighted woefully , And in that p [ a ] ssion sighing say , would I had died for thee . When I her bleeding Ghost behold , wrapped in a Winding-sheet ; And on her Head a Crown of Gold , with voice exceeding sweet : Dear Thomas , Thomas most unkind , why do you stay ? said she , Why do you tarry thus behind ? make haste and follow me . Thus am I in distraction hurled , denied of quiet rest ; And though I hide it from the World , my very Soul's oppressed : I'ld fair surrender up my Breath , to give me ease , said he , For Life is worse to me than Death , would I had died for thee . Printed for P. Brooskby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . Answer to the Maiden's Tragedy : OR , The Lamentation of a Young Man , Near Wolverhampton , for the Death of a Young Maiden ; which of late has been a great Grief and Trouble to him , for his Unkindness to her . To the Tune of , Russel ' s Farewell . Y Ou Lovers all both far and near , pray listen to my moan ; I wronged my Love , my only Dear , the like was never known : I proved indeed her fatal fallen , by my Disloyalty , For which I fear in time I shall a sad Example be . Love thou art sleeping in the Grave , and I am left behind ; No peace or comfort can I have , but a tormented mind : The Heart within my Breast does bleed , no Pleasure can I see ; Ever thou hadst done that bloody Deed , would I had died for thee . What Protestations did I make , that I did thee adore ? Yet did at last my Love forsake , and this torments me soar : Sad Torments do I under go , for my Disloyalty , The Eyes of mine like Fountains flow , would I had died for thee . The Golden Chain of Love I broke , and did my promise slight , So that at length a fatal streak , did prove thy ruin quite : When at the point of sad di [ s ] pair , thou wroughtest this Tragedy ; My Soul is filled with grief and care , would I had died for thee . After a tedious long delay , we did together meet , And pitched upon our Wedding-day , our blessings to complete : She wai [ tO ] ed long yet all in vain , then with a sighs said she , True Love is a tormenting Pain , no Man so false as he . I seemed unconcerned then , though I her Heart betrayed ; And never came a near her when , this Piteous Moan she made : But now my Dearest thou art dead , and I no comfort see , All Joy and Peace is from me fled , would I had died for thee . I with the World could freely part , to be released from thrall ; Now I alone do feel the smart , for thou art passed it all : While I in Storms of Grief and Woe feel Endless Misery , This Grief I cannot under go , would I had died for thee . When ever I wander all alone , methinks her voice I hear , And sometime with a dying groan , which kills my Heart with fear : Then do I start and turn away , as frighted woefully , And in that p [ a ] ssion sighing say , would I had died for thee . When I her bleeding Ghost behold , wrapped in a Winding-sheet ; And on her Head a Crown of Gold , with voice exceeding sweet : Dear Thomas , Thomas most unkind , why do you stay ? said she , Why do you tarry thus behind ? make haste and follow me . Thus am I in distraction hurled , denied of quiet rest ; And though I hide it from the World , my very Soul's oppressed : I'ld fair surrender up my Breath , to give me ease , said he , For Life is worse to me than Death , would I had died for thee . Printed for P. Brooskby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 