Unfortunate Strephon , OR , The Unhappy Shepherd's last LEGACY to the WORLD . It Being a Pleasant and Delightful New Song . To the Tune of , Long Sporting on the Flowery Plain , Or , Young Strephon fain the Bliss would Taste , etc oe , Jenny Ginn . This may be Printed , R.L.S. August the 4th . 1685. L Ong Sporting on the flowery plain , while I obedient stood , While I was found a Loyal Swain , and sought Arcadia good : Each Shepherd and each Shepherdess , my worthy deeds made known , But now poor Strephon now at last , Ambition has undone . Each Nymph did wish her silent charms [ ? ] might so alureing prove , To win me to her tender arms , and make me yield to Love : Each cheerful face did joy express , by smiles that hung thereon , For me poor Strephon whom alas Ambition has undone . Loved and admired long time I was , till fatal to my fame , The feavorish breath of found applause , to my warm breast gave flame : 'Twas future greatness was the glass , I fondly gazed upon , ' Tul me poor Strephon whom alas Ambition has undone . What other Shepherd's well could please Shepherd's of my degree . My labouring thoughts could nothing ease , nor no contentment be : But Courting flatry's witching face , which slyely drew me on , Till me poor Strephon me alas Ambition had undone . Regardless of that tender care , which my dear safety sought , Safe counsel I refused to hear , such as had made me great : And following flying shades apace , shades that have led me on , Till me poor Strephon me alas Ambition has undone . My greatest foes in friendships dress , I rashly did believe , Who having brought me to distress , my swelling hope's deceive : Belief and Ruin did embrace , ruin my self called on , Till me poor Strephon me alas A mbition hath undone : To urge the foreign fates I durst , in and unhappy time , And in false fortune putting trust , to greatness strove to climb : Which then I thought in prospect was though by delusion shown , Till me poor Strephon me alas A mbition had overthrown . Forsaking those most happy Plains , where I long time had been , And following false and treacherous swains , at last they drew me in : To prove ungrateful to the place where I such fame had wone , Till me poor Strephon , me alas ! Ambition had undone . Successless in my enterpr [ i'm ] unfortune and crossed , Let others by my fallen advice , lest they likewise are lost : Let Loyalty your actions Grace , to keep the fame yovu'e wone , lest you should fallen like him alas ! Ambition has undone . P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Unfortunate Strephon , OR , The Unhappy Shepherd's last LEGACY to the WORLD . It Being a Pleasant and Delightful New Song . To the Tune of , Long Sporting on the Flowery Plain , Or , Young Strephon fain the Bliss would Taste , etc oe , Jenny Ginn . This may be Printed , R.L.S. August the 4th . 1685. L Ong Sporting on the flowery plain , while I obedient stood , While I was found a Loyal Swain , and sought Arcadia good : Each Shepherd and each Shepherdess , my worthy deeds made known , But now poor Strephon now at last , Ambition has undone . Each Nymph did wish her silent charms [ ? ] might so alureing prove , To win me to her tender arms , and make me yield to Love : Each cheerful face did joy express , by smiles that hung thereon , For me poor Strephon whom alas Ambition has undone . Loved and admired long time I was , till fatal to my fame , The feavorish breath of found applause , to my warm breast gave flame : 'Twas future greatness was the glass , I fondly gazed upon , ' Tul me poor Strephon whom alas Ambition has undone . What other Shepherd's well could please Shepherd's of my degree . My labouring thoughts could nothing ease , nor no contentment be : But Courting flatry's witching face , which slyely drew me on , Till me poor Strephon me alas Ambition had undone . Regardless of that tender care , which my dear safety sought , Safe counsel I refused to hear , such as had made me great : And following flying shades apace , shades that have led me on , Till me poor Strephon me alas Ambition has undone . My greatest foes in friendships dress , I rashly did believe , Who having brought me to distress , my swelling hope's deceive : Belief and Ruin did embrace , ruin my self called on , Till me poor Strephon me alas A mbition hath undone : To urge the foreign fates I durst , in and unhappy time , And in false fortune putting trust , to greatness strove to climb : Which then I thought in prospect was though by delusion shown , Till me poor Strephon me alas A mbition had overthrown . Forsaking those most happy Plains , where I long time had been , And following false and treacherous swains , at last they drew me in : To prove ungrateful to the place where I such fame had wone , Till me poor Strephon , me alas ! Ambition had undone . Successless in my enterpr [ i'm ] unfortune and crossed , Let others by my fallen advice , lest they likewise are lost : Let Loyalty your actions Grace , to keep the fame yovu'e wone , lest you should fallen like him alas ! Ambition has undone . P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 