THE Despairing Lovers Address TO CHARON ; For a Passage to the Elizium Shades : Or , The found Lovers Lamentation for the unkindness of Silvia . Tune of , Charon make haste , etc This may be printed , R.P. CHaron make haste , and ferry me over to the Elizium shady Grove ; Where I my passion in sighs will discover , which I have suffered long for Love . I am a weary of my life , and cannot be eased , no , no where , Then put a perjod unto my life , and carry me where I may know no care . O , my dear Silvia , it's you that have wounded me with the soft glances of your fair eyes ; And with your hate you have quite confounded me , and you have made me a Sacrifice : I was a slave to all your charms , and perfectly thought you would comply ; But now you leave me in death's cold arms , and must for your sake a poor Martyr die . Tell me , dear Silvia , why you are so cruel thus to disdain a poor loving Swain , And with your Eyes still increase his fuel , using no means to release his pain : Let not your frowns such beauty cover , hiding the charms of your fair eyes , But take compassion of your kind Lover , or in and amorous rage he dies . Did you but know what immortal blessing Lovers whose hearts are combined enjoy , You'd not deny the delightful possessing of the sweet blisses you now destroy : Let him not live in pains for ever , but with your smiles his passion cure ; Love him but once , and his heart shall never vary , but always continue yours . But if you still will continue disdainful , checking my love with perpetual scorn , I shall remain in a passion so painful , cursing the moment that I was born : Then among wild distressed mountains I will alone breath out my cares , And there my eyes like two Crystal Fountains daily shall weep out their brackish tears . I'll in soft Notes to just Heaven discover , you are the cause of my wretched pain ; Tell them how you have disdained your lover , who has begged pity long time in vain : There will I beg the neighbouring Creatures for to assist and tell my care , And we'll explain against her fair features , who has thus driven me to despair . But ah my Silvia , when you shall here that I to Elizium shades am gone , Then I am sure you must let fallen a tear , since you were the cause of my death alone : Then will you wish , when it's too late , that you could revive your loving Swain ; When your Unkindness has sealed my Fate , Oh then you will wish me alive again . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven a little above St. Andrew is Church in Holbourn , and J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-gate in West Smithfield . THE Despairing Lovers Address TO CHARON ; For a Passage to the Elizium Shades : Or , The found Lovers Lamentation for the unkindness of Silvia . Tune of , Charon make haste , etc This may be printed , R.P. CHaron make haste , and ferry me over to the Elizium shady Grove ; Where I my passion in sighs will discover , which I have suffered long for Love . I am a weary of my life , and cannot be eased , no , no where , Then put a perjod unto my life , and carry me where I may know no care . O , my dear Silvia , it's you that have wounded me with the soft glances of your fair eyes ; And with your hate you have quite confounded me , and you have made me a Sacrifice : I was a slave to all your charms , and perfectly thought you would comply ; But now you leave me in death's cold arms , and must for your sake a poor Martyr die . Tell me , dear Silvia , why you are so cruel thus to disdain a poor loving Swain , And with your Eyes still increase his fuel , using no means to release his pain : Let not your frowns such beauty cover , hiding the charms of your fair eyes , But take compassion of your kind Lover , or in and amorous rage he dies . Did you but know what immortal blessing Lovers whose hearts are combined enjoy , You'd not deny the delightful possessing of the sweet blisses you now destroy : Let him not live in pains for ever , but with your smiles his passion cure ; Love him but once , and his heart shall never vary , but always continue yours . But if you still will continue disdainful , checking my love with perpetual scorn , I shall remain in a passion so painful , cursing the moment that I was born : Then among wild distressed mountains I will alone breath out my cares , And there my eyes like two Crystal Fountains daily shall weep out their brackish tears . I'll in soft Notes to just Heaven discover , you are the cause of my wretched pain ; Tell them how you have disdained your lover , who has begged pity long time in vain : There will I beg the neighbouring Creatures for to assist and tell my care , And we'll explain against her fair features , who has thus driven me to despair . But ah my Silvia , when you shall here that I to Elizium shades am gone , Then I am sure you must let fallen a tear , since you were the cause of my death alone : Then will you wish , when it's too late , that you could revive your loving Swain ; When your Unkindness has sealed my Fate , Oh then you will wish me alive again . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven a little above St. Andrew is Church in Holbourn , and J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-gate in West Smithfield . 