The Knight's Tragedy . OR , THE Unfortunate Lovers last Farewell , Together with his Unkind Ladys Lamentation for his death , when 'twas too late . Tune of , I love you more and more each day . Licensed according to Order . F Orgive me if your looks ( I thought ) did once some change discover ; To be too jealous is thy fault of every tender Lover : Might truth those kind Reproaches show , which you blame so severely , A sign ( alas ! ) you little know ; You little know what it's to love sincerely . The torment of a long despair I did in silence smother ; But it's a pain , I cannot bear to think you love another ; My fate ( alas ! depends on you , I am but what you make me , Dearly blessed if you prove true , If you prove true , undone if you forsake me . In thee I place my chiefest joy , I seek no other treasure . Then do not all my hope's destroy , who loves thee out of measure : Forbear to triumph in disdain , since here I lie and languish , True love is a tormenting pain , Tormenting pain , which fills my soul with anguish . TO He silent Night I spend in tears , and melt in Lamentation , And yet no glance of love appears , but utter detestation ; Regarding not my piteous moan , my sighs and sad lamenting , Your heart like flint or marble stone , Or Marble stone , feels not the least relenting . Your Beauty gave the fatal wound and did at first allure me , In chains of love I now lie bound , and you alone can cure me , C ast not a Loyal Love away who at your feet lies bleeding , Unto my sighed one smile convey , One smile convey , for which my tears are pleading . Why should a charming beauty bright , resolve to be so cruel , Oh let me not be ruined quite in Loves destroying Fuel : See hoe mine eyes like Fountains flow with crystal tears before thee , Then do not seek his overthrow , His overthrow , who does this day adore thee . Behold I am thy Captive Slave , thy wounded love believe me , And you alone my life can save , and therefore now reprieve me , Yet though my grief you'll not remove , but still with torments fill me , Yet I cannot forbear to love , Forbear to love , although with scorn you kill me . If thus you are resolved to frown , and slight my friendly favour , Then to the grave I will go down , farewell thou World for ever ; I find she Triumphs in disdain , and still denys the blessing , Why should I live to feel this pain , To feel this pain , which is beyond expressing . This said , his Naked sword he drew and to his heart he sent it , And as he bid the world adieu , she bitterly lamented , C rying , I was unfortunate , would I had died befo [ r ] e him , Thus did she weep when 'twas too late , When 'twas too late , for tears could not restore him . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . The Knight's Tragedy . OR , THE Unfortunate Lovers last Farewell , Together with his Unkind Ladys Lamentation for his death , when 'twas too late . Tune of , I love you more and more each day . Licensed according to Order . F Orgive me if your looks ( I thought ) did once some change discover ; To be too jealous is thy fault of every tender Lover : Might truth those kind Reproaches show , which you blame so severely , A sign ( alas ! ) you little know ; You little know what it's to love sincerely . The torment of a long despair I did in silence smother ; But it's a pain , I cannot bear to think you love another ; My fate ( alas ! depends on you , I am but what you make me , Dearly blessed if you prove true , If you prove true , undone if you forsake me . In thee I place my chiefest joy , I seek no other treasure . Then do not all my hope's destroy , who loves thee out of measure : Forbear to triumph in disdain , since here I lie and languish , True love is a tormenting pain , Tormenting pain , which fills my soul with anguish . TO He silent Night I spend in tears , and melt in Lamentation , And yet no glance of love appears , but utter detestation ; Regarding not my piteous moan , my sighs and sad lamenting , Your heart like flint or marble stone , Or Marble stone , feels not the least relenting . Your Beauty gave the fatal wound and did at first allure me , In chains of love I now lie bound , and you alone can cure me , C ast not a Loyal Love away who at your feet lies bleeding , Unto my sighed one smile convey , One smile convey , for which my tears are pleading . Why should a charming beauty bright , resolve to be so cruel , Oh let me not be ruined quite in Loves destroying Fuel : See hoe mine eyes like Fountains flow with crystal tears before thee , Then do not seek his overthrow , His overthrow , who does this day adore thee . Behold I am thy Captive Slave , thy wounded love believe me , And you alone my life can save , and therefore now reprieve me , Yet though my grief you'll not remove , but still with torments fill me , Yet I cannot forbear to love , Forbear to love , although with scorn you kill me . If thus you are resolved to frown , and slight my friendly favour , Then to the grave I will go down , farewell thou World for ever ; I find she Triumphs in disdain , and still denys the blessing , Why should I live to feel this pain , To feel this pain , which is beyond expressing . This said , his Naked sword he drew and to his heart he sent it , And as he bid the world adieu , she bitterly lamented , C rying , I was unfortunate , would I had died befo [ r ] e him , Thus did she weep when 'twas too late , When 'twas too late , for tears could not restore him . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 