The wounded Lover : Loves powerful Dart did pierce his heart who with his panting breath Aloud did cry , My Celia's eye hath wounded me to death . Tune of , Some say there was a Papist plot ; or , Jenny Gin . M Y thinks I feel fresh bleeding wounds , still running in my breast ; It's Celia all my Joys confounds , and robs me of my rest : The beauty of her sparkling eyes does set my heart on fire ; She does my yielding soul surprise , and fills me with desire . Yet though she does so tryrannize , I fondly hug my chains ; My Liberty I do despise , and love my pleasing pains : It's love , Oh love ! feeds my delight , and adds flames to my fire ; Although I burn both day and night , I languish with desire . Yet she in whom I take delight looks with a scornful eye ; And seems my passion for to slight , that ready am to die : Yet one poor sweet enamouring smile not mixed with disdain , My killing anguish would beguile and banish all my pain . O who would let a Lover die , that one poor smile could save ? A glance of her all-conquering eye would fetch me from the Grave . Then be as kind as thou art fair , it'll happy be for me ; Or else for Death I must prepare , and all for love of thee . My troubled Ghost will to and from be wandering through the Air ; And every where as it does go cry : Celia too too fair , Why didst thou prove to me unkind while I enjoyed my breath ? I was so troubled in my mind , that brought me to my death . For certain this must trouble thee , to give me to my doom ; For I will have thy cruelty engraved on my Tomb : Some one that felt Love's powerful dart , so kind will be to me , And write here lies a broken heart , fair Celia slave by thee . The blossoms of thy flowery cheeks will then grow wan and pale , And turn as green as any Leeks , thy spirits they will fasl . O then too late thou wilt repent thy cruelty to me , And cry in fearful discontent , my Love i'll follow thee . Then ever it be too late begin thy kindness for to show ; Think on the pains I lived in encompassed round with woe : So mayest thou me from death preserve , now mourning in despair , Who vow while I have life to serve my Celia chaste and fair . O what a happy man were I beyond all others blessed , If by the message of thine eye thy love would be expressed : But if there be no hope's that I my true-Love may obtain , I'll wish for death most greedily , to ease me of my pain . Take pity on my fainting breath once more I thee desire ; Or see my heart resign to death , just ready to expire : Thou never wilt find a Love more kind , my passion to exceed ; To cruel death I yield my breath , for thee to death I bleed . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . The wounded Lover : Loves powerful Dart did pierce his heart who with his panting breath Aloud did cry , My Celia's eye hath wounded me to death . Tune of , Some say there was a Papist plot ; or , Jenny Gin . M Y thinks I feel fresh bleeding wounds , still running in my breast ; It's Celia all my Joys confounds , and robs me of my rest : The beauty of her sparkling eyes does set my heart on fire ; She does my yielding soul surprise , and fills me with desire . Yet though she does so tryrannize , I fondly hug my chains ; My Liberty I do despise , and love my pleasing pains : It's love , Oh love ! feeds my delight , and adds flames to my fire ; Although I burn both day and night , I languish with desire . Yet she in whom I take delight looks with a scornful eye ; And seems my passion for to slight , that ready am to die : Yet one poor sweet enamouring smile not mixed with disdain , My killing anguish would beguile and banish all my pain . O who would let a Lover die , that one poor smile could save ? A glance of her all-conquering eye would fetch me from the Grave . Then be as kind as thou art fair , it'll happy be for me ; Or else for Death I must prepare , and all for love of thee . My troubled Ghost will to and from be wandering through the Air ; And every where as it does go cry : Celia too too fair , Why didst thou prove to me unkind while I enjoyed my breath ? I was so troubled in my mind , that brought me to my death . For certain this must trouble thee , to give me to my doom ; For I will have thy cruelty engraved on my Tomb : Some one that felt Love's powerful dart , so kind will be to me , And write here lies a broken heart , fair Celia slave by thee . The blossoms of thy flowery cheeks will then grow wan and pale , And turn as green as any Leeks , thy spirits they will fasl . O then too late thou wilt repent thy cruelty to me , And cry in fearful discontent , my Love i'll follow thee . Then ever it be too late begin thy kindness for to show ; Think on the pains I lived in encompassed round with woe : So mayest thou me from death preserve , now mourning in despair , Who vow while I have life to serve my Celia chaste and fair . O what a happy man were I beyond all others blessed , If by the message of thine eye thy love would be expressed : But if there be no hope's that I my true-Love may obtain , I'll wish for death most greedily , to ease me of my pain . Take pity on my fainting breath once more I thee desire ; Or see my heart resign to death , just ready to expire : Thou never wilt find a Love more kind , my passion to exceed ; To cruel death I yield my breath , for thee to death I bleed . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 