The stubborn Lover catched . While Corridon disdained to love . And beauty did despise , Those pleasant pains none could remove , That sprang from Phillis Eyes . Tune , Amoret and Phillis Y Oung Corridon whose stubborn heart no beauty ever could move , Would smile to hear of Cupid's dart , and scorn d the thoughts of love . Till Phillis came with charming Eye his heart for to invade , And conquered then aloud did cry , i'm now a vassal made . i'm now a vassal made . H e viewed her well that wone his heart , and cried i'm now undone ; Come Cupid the end my deadly smart or else my thread is spun . My life a burden sure will prove except you ease my pain , For I am now compelled to love what once I did disdain . what once . etc When I was free I laughed at those , whom beauty did ensnare , Now love so fast upon me grows that I must needs despair . Except my Phillis prove so kind to answer my desire , To ease my discontented mind , and cool [ e ] my flaming fire . and cool . etc H e sighed and sighed and still complained that he could not endure , Those pangs of love that him so pained but must look out for cure . O whither shall I fly quoth he to find one hour of rest , Alas , alas , it cannot be i'm too too much oppressed , i'm too . etc You that are free take my advice and scorn not Cupid's power , You little think that in a trice he can your joys devour . For I poor hapless Corridon was in a minute lost , When my disdains I think upon Me thinks i'm justly Crossed . Me thinks , etc Never despise the god of love whose power I cant relate , Nor well express who can remove my cruel riged fate . Yet in my pain such ease I find that tickles my desire , And though my thoughts are now confined No help I now require . No help . etc These links of love are pleasant Chains , that please the fettered man , And while he of his smart complains his pleasures then began , O Cupid gentle Cupid now let me no more be free . For unto thee I made a vow that shall not broken be , that shall , etc Let Phillis feel a little touch , of my tormenting bow Or else poor I shall feel too much O let it not be so . But let her pain be much like mine then isle applaud thy name , And though I count her now divine do not my passion blame , do not , etc I now repent it not too late my sordid misconceit , For those that talk o'Lovers fate which I then call [ ' ] worser deceit . Now i'll comply with and will lay that Cupids power is strong , Then Cupid send some help away Or else thou dost me wrong . Or else thou dost me wrong , When Phillis she invited me by favour to be kind , I slighted her she then did see how can she now be kind . My Rhetoric will prove in vain if I and offer make , To ask her now to ease my pain , And then my heart will break . And then my heart will break . It is but reason if I die of this bewitched disease . That Phillis should triumphantly write such like lines as these . There goes the stubborn hearted soul that once did love despise , And Cupids power he would control See now for love he dies , See now . etc Unpitied then unto the Grave , my Carcase they will take , Yet one poor smile my life can save then pity now awake . And never let my former crimes meet with such sharp reward , Because I did so many times Great Cupid disregard , great Cupid . etc Printed for F. Coals . TO Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark . W. Thackery . and T. Passenger . The stubborn Lover catched . While Corridon disdained to love . And beauty did despise , Those pleasant pains none could remove , That sprang from Phillis Eyes . Tune , Amoret and Phillis Y Oung Corridon whose stubborn heart no beauty ever could move , Would smile to hear of Cupid's dart , and scorn d the thoughts of love . Till Phillis came with charming Eye his heart for to invade , And conquered then aloud did cry , i'm now a vassal made . i'm now a vassal made . H e viewed her well that wone his heart , and cried i'm now undone ; Come Cupid the end my deadly smart or else my thread is spun . My life a burden sure will prove except you ease my pain , For I am now compelled to love what once I did disdain . what once . etc When I was free I laughed at those , whom beauty did ensnare , Now love so fast upon me grows that I must needs despair . Except my Phillis prove so kind to answer my desire , To ease my discontented mind , and cool [ e ] my flaming fire . and cool . etc H e sighed and sighed and still complained that he could not endure , Those pangs of love that him so pained but must look out for cure . O whither shall I fly quoth he to find one hour of rest , Alas , alas , it cannot be i'm too too much oppressed , i'm too . etc You that are free take my advice and scorn not Cupid's power , You little think that in a trice he can your joys devour . For I poor hapless Corridon was in a minute lost , When my disdains I think upon Me thinks i'm justly Crossed . Me thinks , etc Never despise the god of love whose power I cant relate , Nor well express who can remove my cruel riged fate . Yet in my pain such ease I find that tickles my desire , And though my thoughts are now confined No help I now require . No help . etc These links of love are pleasant Chains , that please the fettered man , And while he of his smart complains his pleasures then began , O Cupid gentle Cupid now let me no more be free . For unto thee I made a vow that shall not broken be , that shall , etc Let Phillis feel a little touch , of my tormenting bow Or else poor I shall feel too much O let it not be so . But let her pain be much like mine then isle applaud thy name , And though I count her now divine do not my passion blame , do not , etc I now repent it not too late my sordid misconceit , For those that talk o'Lovers fate which I then call [ ' ] worser deceit . Now i'll comply with and will lay that Cupids power is strong , Then Cupid send some help away Or else thou dost me wrong . Or else thou dost me wrong , When Phillis she invited me by favour to be kind , I slighted her she then did see how can she now be kind . My Rhetoric will prove in vain if I and offer make , To ask her now to ease my pain , And then my heart will break . And then my heart will break . It is but reason if I die of this bewitched disease . That Phillis should triumphantly write such like lines as these . There goes the stubborn hearted soul that once did love despise , And Cupids power he would control See now for love he dies , See now . etc Unpitied then unto the Grave , my Carcase they will take , Yet one poor smile my life can save then pity now awake . And never let my former crimes meet with such sharp reward , Because I did so many times Great Cupid disregard , great Cupid . etc Printed for F. Coals . TO Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark . W. Thackery . and T. Passenger . 