The Perjured Youth : Being and Account of a Devonshire Young Man , Who Courted a Damsel for pure Love , which when he had obtained the same he importuned her to lie with him before Marriage , which she obstinately refused , but he wishing that he might break his Neck , if he was not true to her , and having obtained his ends , he forsook her , and soon after broke his Neck , according to his Wish , as a just Example for his Villainy . Tune of Valiant Jockey . Licensed according to Order . L Et falsehearted Lovers now . Be careful how they break their vow , lest they be partakers of that Fate , Which did happen to a Youth of late , Which did live in Devonshire , A wealthy Farmers Son we hear , Courted a young Damsel sweet and fair , And did soon her yielding heart ensnare ; Dearest , said he , Oh pity me , For I love no one alive but thee ; Grant love again , to ease my pain , Or I shall be soon with sorrow slave . Fairest Charming Beauty bright , In whom I place my hearts delight , Do not answer thy true lover , no , lest it proves my final overthrow , Who is wounded to the heart , And thou alone canst ease the smart , Therefore now be kind and pity me , Who will prove a loyal love to thee ; He wooed her still , gained her good will [ : ] Then his lust he wanted to fulfil , Which she denied , and still replied , I will first be made your lawful Bride . Dearest grant me my request , And here I solemnly protest , In the morning thou shalt married be , Or may Heavens vengeance fallen on me , If my Jewel I forsake , I wish my neck I soon may break , Or some other vengeance fallen on me , If I am not constant love to thee ; Sad wishes passed , he held her fast , She was overcome by him at last , Thus the Young Maid , he soon betrayed , Then he broke the solemn vows he made . When his will he had obtained , Her Company he straight refrained , And would never once come near her more , This did grieve , and eke torment her soar , On a day to him she goes , Her grief and sorrow to disclose , Saying , William , Oh be kind and mild , For by thee , alas ! I prove with child ; She did complain , he joaked amain , Treated her with scorn and foul disdain , Oh Wretch , said she , your Oaths was free , Heaven may in Justice punish thee . With a heart oppressed with grief , Home she returned without relief , And , it seems , within a day or two , He another youthful maid did woe , Notwithstanding all his vows , She must in haste be made his Spouse , And the wedding was appointed straight ; But behold and see his wretched state , Heaven decreed , that he should bleed , Who was guilty of so foul a deed , To let them know who practised so , That they shall not unrewarded go . Now the very day before , The Joys which he had then in store , Being lopping off a lofty Tree , There he met his wished for destiny ; For in taking a full stroke , He fell , and there his neck he broke , Dying without either sighs or groan , Thus the Perjured Wretch was overthrown Sad wishes they , wrought his decay , Therefore let all Loves now this day , What ever you do , be just and true , lest some dismal Doom may fallen on you . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Perjured Youth : Being and Account of a Devonshire Young Man , Who Courted a Damsel for pure Love , which when he had obtained the same he importuned her to lie with him before Marriage , which she obstinately refused , but he wishing that he might break his Neck , if he was not true to her , and having obtained his ends , he forsook her , and soon after broke his Neck , according to his Wish , as a just Example for his Villainy . Tune of Valiant Jockey . Licensed according to Order . L Et falsehearted Lovers now . Be careful how they break their vow , lest they be partakers of that Fate , Which did happen to a Youth of late , Which did live in Devonshire , A wealthy Farmers Son we hear , Courted a young Damsel sweet and fair , And did soon her yielding heart ensnare ; Dearest , said he , Oh pity me , For I love no one alive but thee ; Grant love again , to ease my pain , Or I shall be soon with sorrow slave . Fairest Charming Beauty bright , In whom I place my hearts delight , Do not answer thy true lover , no , lest it proves my final overthrow , Who is wounded to the heart , And thou alone canst ease the smart , Therefore now be kind and pity me , Who will prove a loyal love to thee ; He wooed her still , gained her good will [ : ] Then his lust he wanted to fulfil , Which she denied , and still replied , I will first be made your lawful Bride . Dearest grant me my request , And here I solemnly protest , In the morning thou shalt married be , Or may Heavens vengeance fallen on me , If my Jewel I forsake , I wish my neck I soon may break , Or some other vengeance fallen on me , If I am not constant love to thee ; Sad wishes passed , he held her fast , She was overcome by him at last , Thus the Young Maid , he soon betrayed , Then he broke the solemn vows he made . When his will he had obtained , Her Company he straight refrained , And would never once come near her more , This did grieve , and eke torment her soar , On a day to him she goes , Her grief and sorrow to disclose , Saying , William , Oh be kind and mild , For by thee , alas ! I prove with child ; She did complain , he joaked amain , Treated her with scorn and foul disdain , Oh Wretch , said she , your Oaths was free , Heaven may in Justice punish thee . With a heart oppressed with grief , Home she returned without relief , And , it seems , within a day or two , He another youthful maid did woe , Notwithstanding all his vows , She must in haste be made his Spouse , And the wedding was appointed straight ; But behold and see his wretched state , Heaven decreed , that he should bleed , Who was guilty of so foul a deed , To let them know who practised so , That they shall not unrewarded go . Now the very day before , The Joys which he had then in store , Being lopping off a lofty Tree , There he met his wished for destiny ; For in taking a full stroke , He fell , and there his neck he broke , Dying without either sighs or groan , Thus the Perjured Wretch was overthrown Sad wishes they , wrought his decay , Therefore let all Loves now this day , What ever you do , be just and true , lest some dismal Doom may fallen on you . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 