The Distracted Young-Man ; OR , The Overthrow of Two Loyal Lovers . To the Tune of , Sighs and Groans , This may be Printed , R . P . I Loved one both Beautiful and bright , In whom I have placed my chief delight : And she did grant me Love for Love again , So that I thought I never should complain . When her Father understood indeed , That we in loyal Love did thus proceed ; He cruel was to her and most severe , So that I never could behold my Dear . To her Window then often would I go , To let her understand my grief and woe ; With sighs and bitter tears she did reply , I never will forsake thee till I die . Love , although I now am thus confined , Yet thou art always running in my mind : I'll never Marry none alive but thee , Though I might have a Lord of high degree . But our talk was suddenly betrayed , Her Parents overheard the words she said : Therefore they did within a little space Confine her , in a more obscurer place , So that I could never see her more , Then was I tormented and grieved soar ; My hear was ready then to break in twain , And tears did trickle down like Showers of Rain . Night nor day I then could take no rest , For why , I was in sorrow so possessed : That then I was resolved to leave the Land , And be a Soldier under some Command . To the Christian Wars I then did go , In order to forget my grief and woo ; Though there I did appear in Armour bright , I never could forget my hearts delight . At length I my freedom did obtain , And hone to Old England I came again : In hope's I might enjoy my hearts content , For I could find no rest where ever I went . To her Father's house went I to see My dearest Love and Joy if it might be : But when I did come there her Parents cried , She broke her Heart for me , and this she Died . When to me this sudden News they told , My Joints did tremble , and my Heart was cold : At length I uttered forth these Words , and said , Your cruelty hath now her Life betrayed . Love , said he , my grief I cannot bear , As thou art in thy Grave , would I were there : Then should I be at rest from grief and woe , I know not what to do , nor where to go . I bereaved of all my senses so , To B edlam as last I was forced to go , Where bound in Chains , alas ! long time I lay , And calling on my true Love Night and WORSER [ ay . ] Now my Reason is returned again , These Lines that I send you do not disdain But pity my Misfortune , whom you see Has undergone such sharp extremity . With my Love I might have lived in peace , Now nothing , alas ! can my joys increase : Proud Imperious Parents caused my woe , And proved their Darlings final overthrow . Parents all of high and low Degree , I'de have you remember this Cruelty : And therefore to your view these Lines I send , Which I of all my Grief and Sorrow Penned . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-stree [ tO . ] The Distracted Young-Man ; OR , The Overthrow of Two Loyal Lovers . To the Tune of , Sighs and Groans , This may be Printed , R . P . I Loved one both Beautiful and bright , In whom I have placed my chief delight : And she did grant me Love for Love again , So that I thought I never should complain . When her Father understood indeed , That we in loyal Love did thus proceed ; He cruel was to her and most severe , So that I never could behold my Dear . To her Window then often would I go , To let her understand my grief and woe ; With sighs and bitter tears she did reply , I never will forsake thee till I die . Love , although I now am thus confined , Yet thou art always running in my mind : I'll never Marry none alive but thee , Though I might have a Lord of high degree . But our talk was suddenly betrayed , Her Parents overheard the words she said : Therefore they did within a little space Confine her , in a more obscurer place , So that I could never see her more , Then was I tormented and grieved soar ; My hear was ready then to break in twain , And tears did trickle down like Showers of Rain . Night nor day I then could take no rest , For why , I was in sorrow so possessed : That then I was resolved to leave the Land , And be a Soldier under some Command . To the Christian Wars I then did go , In order to forget my grief and woo ; Though there I did appear in Armour bright , I never could forget my hearts delight . At length I my freedom did obtain , And hone to Old England I came again : In hope's I might enjoy my hearts content , For I could find no rest where ever I went . To her Father's house went I to see My dearest Love and Joy if it might be : But when I did come there her Parents cried , She broke her Heart for me , and this she Died . When to me this sudden News they told , My Joints did tremble , and my Heart was cold : At length I uttered forth these Words , and said , Your cruelty hath now her Life betrayed . Love , said he , my grief I cannot bear , As thou art in thy Grave , would I were there : Then should I be at rest from grief and woe , I know not what to do , nor where to go . I bereaved of all my senses so , To B edlam as last I was forced to go , Where bound in Chains , alas ! long time I lay , And calling on my true Love Night and WORSER [ ay . ] Now my Reason is returned again , These Lines that I send you do not disdain But pity my Misfortune , whom you see Has undergone such sharp extremity . With my Love I might have lived in peace , Now nothing , alas ! can my joys increase : Proud Imperious Parents caused my woe , And proved their Darlings final overthrow . Parents all of high and low Degree , I'de have you remember this Cruelty : And therefore to your view these Lines I send , Which I of all my Grief and Sorrow Penned . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-stree [ tO . ] 