Repentance too Late : Being fair Celia's complaint for the loss of her Virginity . OR , The wronged Love finds no cure but Death . Being a pleasant new play Song : As it is sung at the Theater Fair Caelia's kind and trusts too much her Swain , Who once Enjoying her returns disdain , Courts other Virgins and neglects her quite What love he had is [ tO ] urned now to spite . For which she grieves at her too quick belief And warns all Virgins by her doleful grief , How to beware of man whose false surprise . Had ruined her then lies her down and dies . To a pleasant new play house Tune called , Sad as Death : OR , Parthenia unto Cloe cried . S ad death at dead of night the fair complaining Caelia sat But one poor lamp was all her light while thus she reasoned with her fate . Why should man such triumphs gain and purchase such joy that gives us pain , Ah what glory can ensue a helpless Virgin to undo . Cursed the night when cursed the hour , when first he drew her to his Arms When Virtue was betrayed by power and yielded to unlawful charms . When approached with all his fires armed with hope's and strong desires , S [ i ] g [ h ] s and tears and every vile with which the men the maids beguile . Dream no more pleasures passed since all thy torments are to come , The secret is made known at last and endless shame is now thy doom , The false fors [ w ] orn alas is gone and left thee here to despair alone , Who that hears of Caelia's pain will never trust will never trust a man again . Easily I believed his vows and yielded up my honour bright , For which hard fate no cure allows but it is never set in night . Come gentle death and ease my grief yield poor Caelia some relief , Oh! lock me in thy cold embrace henceforth the Grave's my dwelling place . Ah! and could he leave me thus weeping , the mourning Caelia cried , Wased enjoyment wrought my curse o ! me that e'r had I but died . Then to'th Elizium shades i'de gone a spotless Virgin now i'm none , But to'th woods my woe must sing till willing death my rescue bring . Cyp'rus shall over shade my Tomb while on the blushing ground I lie , Where Violets and sweet Roses bloom I care not now for coming nigh . Since I have lost my Virgin state by trusting man such my hard fate , That proves perfidious and unjust and has to shame betrayed my trust . Cruel powers why have you made Man so Majestic bright and fair , Alas wased only to invade poor silly Virgins to ensnare . Undone by their too crafty wiles Allured into lovers fatal toils , By the soft whispers of their breath which wound the love sick heart to death . Like a Serpent that does lie under a bed of gaudy flowers , Whose smell and sighed invites the eyes and ravished sense so that no power To shun they have but plucking strait they meet their unexpected fate , So men with sweet words they deceive till they have god their ends then leave . The yielding Virgin to possess for constant v [ ? ] us the wandering Air , To wail her own unhappiness for constant lovers now are rare . Words smooth as Oil are soon so god oaths they suspend or valve not , Her whom they swear now Angel bright when once enjoy [ ' ] worser is black as night . V irgins all be warned by me who now must mourn my ill stared fate Oh! trust not your virginity lest love should turn to cruel hate . Which I have prov [ ' ] worser for which I die Heartbroken hear for ever lie , At which she sighed out her last breath and love and beauty left in death . London Printed for F. Coals . T. Vere . J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . Repentance too Late : Being fair Celia's complaint for the loss of her Virginity . OR , The wronged Love finds no cure but Death . Being a pleasant new play Song : As it is sung at the Theater Fair Caelia's kind and trusts too much her Swain , Who once Enjoying her returns disdain , Courts other Virgins and neglects her quite What love he had is [ tO ] urned now to spite . For which she grieves at her too quick belief And warns all Virgins by her doleful grief , How to beware of man whose false surprise . Had ruined her then lies her down and dies . To a pleasant new play house Tune called , Sad as Death : OR , Parthenia unto Cloe cried . S ad death at dead of night the fair complaining Caelia sat But one poor lamp was all her light while thus she reasoned with her fate . Why should man such triumphs gain and purchase such joy that gives us pain , Ah what glory can ensue a helpless Virgin to undo . Cursed the night when cursed the hour , when first he drew her to his Arms When Virtue was betrayed by power and yielded to unlawful charms . When approached with all his fires armed with hope's and strong desires , S [ i ] g [ h ] s and tears and every vile with which the men the maids beguile . Dream no more pleasures passed since all thy torments are to come , The secret is made known at last and endless shame is now thy doom , The false fors [ w ] orn alas is gone and left thee here to despair alone , Who that hears of Caelia's pain will never trust will never trust a man again . Easily I believed his vows and yielded up my honour bright , For which hard fate no cure allows but it is never set in night . Come gentle death and ease my grief yield poor Caelia some relief , Oh! lock me in thy cold embrace henceforth the Grave's my dwelling place . Ah! and could he leave me thus weeping , the mourning Caelia cried , Wased enjoyment wrought my curse o ! me that e'r had I but died . Then to'th Elizium shades i'de gone a spotless Virgin now i'm none , But to'th woods my woe must sing till willing death my rescue bring . Cyp'rus shall over shade my Tomb while on the blushing ground I lie , Where Violets and sweet Roses bloom I care not now for coming nigh . Since I have lost my Virgin state by trusting man such my hard fate , That proves perfidious and unjust and has to shame betrayed my trust . Cruel powers why have you made Man so Majestic bright and fair , Alas wased only to invade poor silly Virgins to ensnare . Undone by their too crafty wiles Allured into lovers fatal toils , By the soft whispers of their breath which wound the love sick heart to death . Like a Serpent that does lie under a bed of gaudy flowers , Whose smell and sighed invites the eyes and ravished sense so that no power To shun they have but plucking strait they meet their unexpected fate , So men with sweet words they deceive till they have god their ends then leave . The yielding Virgin to possess for constant v [ ? ] us the wandering Air , To wail her own unhappiness for constant lovers now are rare . Words smooth as Oil are soon so god oaths they suspend or valve not , Her whom they swear now Angel bright when once enjoy [ ' ] worser is black as night . V irgins all be warned by me who now must mourn my ill stared fate Oh! trust not your virginity lest love should turn to cruel hate . Which I have prov [ ' ] worser for which I die Heartbroken hear for ever lie , At which she sighed out her last breath and love and beauty left in death . London Printed for F. Coals . T. Vere . J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 