The Lovesick SERVING-MAN ; SHOWING How he was Wounded with the Charms of a young Lady , and did not dare to reveal his Mind . To the Tune of I'm often for my Jenny strove . E ' Er since I saw Clorinda is Eyes , My Heart has felt a strange surprise , No Pen is able to reveal The killing Torment which I feel ; Yet I dare not let her know it , Because she's Rich and I am Poor ; No Charms above her , o ! I love her , and will do for evermore . When as her Presence I draw near , She like and Angel does appear ; No sooner I her Charms beheld But I was with Love Raptures filled , As a while I did stand gazing , My soft Heart was wounded soar , No Charm above her , o ! I love her , And will do for evermore . Oh! that I might let her know My Sighs , my Tears , my Care and Woe , And how I'm tortured for her sake , She might some kind of pity take ; But I fear I should offend her Whom I dearly do adore ; No Charms above her , o ! I love her , And will do for evermore . Both Sense and Reason tells me plain , That I bestowed my heart in vain , Where no acceptance will be found , No Balsom for this bleeding Wound : She's a fair and youthful Lady , I a Servant mean and poor ; No Charms above her , etc I valve not her Gold , her Pearl , For was I either Lord or Earl [ , ] My very Heart would be the same , I raise her everlasting Fame ; Yet in vain are all my Wishes , They will not my Joys restore ; No Charms above her , etc Young Cupid bend thy Golden Bow , And let thy silver Arrows fly , That my fair charming Saint may know The pains of Love as well as I ; Tell her too , that I lie wounded , She may then my Joys restore , No Charms above her , etc Though now mine Eyes like Rivers run , As here in Sorrows I condole ; Her Beauty like the Rising Sun , Can soon revive my drooping Soul , But if I may never Enjoy her , Let me with a Dart be slave , It's better kill me , then to fill me With this Love tormenting pain . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Lovesick SERVING-MAN ; SHOWING How he was Wounded with the Charms of a young Lady , and did not dare to reveal his Mind . To the Tune of I'm often for my Jenny strove . E ' Er since I saw Clorinda is Eyes , My Heart has felt a strange surprise , No Pen is able to reveal The killing Torment which I feel ; Yet I dare not let her know it , Because she's Rich and I am Poor ; No Charms above her , o ! I love her , and will do for evermore . When as her Presence I draw near , She like and Angel does appear ; No sooner I her Charms beheld But I was with Love Raptures filled , As a while I did stand gazing , My soft Heart was wounded soar , No Charm above her , o ! I love her , And will do for evermore . Oh! that I might let her know My Sighs , my Tears , my Care and Woe , And how I'm tortured for her sake , She might some kind of pity take ; But I fear I should offend her Whom I dearly do adore ; No Charms above her , o ! I love her , And will do for evermore . Both Sense and Reason tells me plain , That I bestowed my heart in vain , Where no acceptance will be found , No Balsom for this bleeding Wound : She's a fair and youthful Lady , I a Servant mean and poor ; No Charms above her , etc I valve not her Gold , her Pearl , For was I either Lord or Earl [ , ] My very Heart would be the same , I raise her everlasting Fame ; Yet in vain are all my Wishes , They will not my Joys restore ; No Charms above her , etc Young Cupid bend thy Golden Bow , And let thy silver Arrows fly , That my fair charming Saint may know The pains of Love as well as I ; Tell her too , that I lie wounded , She may then my Joys restore , No Charms above her , etc Though now mine Eyes like Rivers run , As here in Sorrows I condole ; Her Beauty like the Rising Sun , Can soon revive my drooping Soul , But if I may never Enjoy her , Let me with a Dart be slave , It's better kill me , then to fill me With this Love tormenting pain . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 