The Undutiful Daughter of Devonshire : OR , The careful Kind indulgent Father's Entreaties for her to forsake her Lover a Spendthrift , and to Embrace a Farmers hopeful Son. The Tune is , How can I be Merry or Glad . Licensed according to Order . B Ehold I am and Aged Man , who have one Youthful Daughter dear ; And yet let me take what care I can , she'll not to my Counsel once give ear . I love her as I do my Life , for her I take a Constant Care ; Therefore I'ld not have her make a Wife , for him that should bring her to Despair . Having one Daughter , and no more , she should a Loving Father find ; I'll give her both Gold and Silver store , if she would but marry to my mind . But she has set her Love on one , who is a Man of mean degree ; And though I have Schooled her still alone , she'll not in the least be ruled by me . He is a Spendthrift Gaming Blade , that Roams abroad both far and near ; And therefore as I have often said , there's nothing but ruin does appear . I tell her this with melting Eyes , and beg of her to take good heed ; Yet she does my Counsel still despise , which causes my Aged heart to bleed . I tell her of the Pains and Care , which I have took for what I have ; And therefore I think it is not fair , to Spend it upon a Crafty Knave . In Taverns will he Rant and Roar , and e'ry lewd Companion feast ; And when he has quite Consumed her store , he'll never regard her in the least . She knows that he delights to Game , and does of folly take his fill ; Yet this will not in the least reclaim , her obstinate Disobedient will . Alas ! she is my Darling dear , this day alive I have no more ; Therefore I would have her flourish here , and live as her Mother has done before . She is I find so stubborn grown , that what I have she will not Prize ; For I declare I will hold my own , she Value's not that in the least she cries . Nay , was he but and honest Man , in whom I might some hope behold ; I'ld never deny him , for I can give with her three Hundred Pounds in Gold . It's true , three Hundred Pounds , they may be thought a portion mean and small , Yet I think it too much to throw away on one that will Piss it against the Wall . Beside , when I this world shall leave , her Lot will then full larger be : The rest of my Treasure she'll then receive , for why I can give it to none but she . Again I'll to my Daughter go , where like a Father and a Friend , I'll Court her to let this Spendthrift go , why should she with sorrow my heart offend ? And if she does my Counsel take , I have a Farmers Son in store . Who will a kind loving Husband make , and does her fair beautiful Charms adore . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Undutiful Daughter of Devonshire : OR , The careful Kind indulgent Father's Entreaties for her to forsake her Lover a Spendthrift , and to Embrace a Farmers hopeful Son. The Tune is , How can I be Merry or Glad . Licensed according to Order . B Ehold I am and Aged Man , who have one Youthful Daughter dear ; And yet let me take what care I can , she'll not to my Counsel once give ear . I love her as I do my Life , for her I take a Constant Care ; Therefore I'ld not have her make a Wife , for him that should bring her to Despair . Having one Daughter , and no more , she should a Loving Father find ; I'll give her both Gold and Silver store , if she would but marry to my mind . But she has set her Love on one , who is a Man of mean degree ; And though I have Schooled her still alone , she'll not in the least be ruled by me . He is a Spendthrift Gaming Blade , that Roams abroad both far and near ; And therefore as I have often said , there's nothing but ruin does appear . I tell her this with melting Eyes , and beg of her to take good heed ; Yet she does my Counsel still despise , which causes my Aged heart to bleed . I tell her of the Pains and Care , which I have took for what I have ; And therefore I think it is not fair , to Spend it upon a Crafty Knave . In Taverns will he Rant and Roar , and e'ry lewd Companion feast ; And when he has quite Consumed her store , he'll never regard her in the least . She knows that he delights to Game , and does of folly take his fill ; Yet this will not in the least reclaim , her obstinate Disobedient will . Alas ! she is my Darling dear , this day alive I have no more ; Therefore I would have her flourish here , and live as her Mother has done before . She is I find so stubborn grown , that what I have she will not Prize ; For I declare I will hold my own , she Value's not that in the least she cries . Nay , was he but and honest Man , in whom I might some hope behold ; I'ld never deny him , for I can give with her three Hundred Pounds in Gold . It's true , three Hundred Pounds , they may be thought a portion mean and small , Yet I think it too much to throw away on one that will Piss it against the Wall . Beside , when I this world shall leave , her Lot will then full larger be : The rest of my Treasure she'll then receive , for why I can give it to none but she . Again I'll to my Daughter go , where like a Father and a Friend , I'll Court her to let this Spendthrift go , why should she with sorrow my heart offend ? And if she does my Counsel take , I have a Farmers Son in store . Who will a kind loving Husband make , and does her fair beautiful Charms adore . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 