[ ? ] False men cruelty : While faithless men do Females slight , The more they feel loves pain , And though they do in men delight , They pay them with disdain . Tune of , Jenny Gin , Busy Fame , or , The fair one let me in . W Hen Cupid's fierce and powerful Dart my freedom did bretray , Tormented in my lovesick heart , beneath the shades I lay : Unseen to any where I was , I softly thus begun : Blind boy , thou art unkind alas ! by Love I'm quite undone . Why should I love that faithless Swain that never will me regard ? He laughs at this my scorching pain , and scoffs are my reward : Were I a man I'ld rather die , then when a heart is wone From his truelove away to fly , Oh! thus I am undone . Well faithless C oridon beware , since thou art false to me , Perhaps thou mayest find one that's fair , may prove as false as thee : And when thou liest in Cupids chains scoffed at by e'ry one , Then think upon Florella is pains : that thou hast quite undone , Who then will pity thy distress ? that used thy Lover so , And slighted thy dear Shepherdess , causing her deadly woe : Then all the world condemn thee will , that lives beneath the Sun , And when that thou hast sighed thy fill , then cry , I'm quite undone . TO How shalt not find throughout the plain one that will pity thee , But say , thou art a perjured Swain , and treacherous to me . While I poor Shepherdess lament and languish all alone , Thou shalt be filled with discontent , and cry , thou art undone . How many Swains as false as thee were served in their kind ? And he that once will cruel be shall never pity find : But he may chance to see that face by which he may be wone , He'l pity then his Lovers case that he hath quite undone . Let Virgins that are chaste and true take warning now by me , lest they in time do chance to rue by their credulity ; I cannot help it , though I grieve that I so soon was wone By him that did me so decieve , and hath me quite undone . We females are the weaker Sex , and so it plain appears , Though we for love our selves perplex , and melt away to tears : False men will never pity take , when they our hearts have wone They spite , and slight , and us forsake , and thus we are undone . But why should we be served so ? whose goodness does excel , Or why should we be brought to woe by loving two too well ? And yet alas it's all in vain , for when our hearts are wone We are requited with disdain , lo , thus we are undone . We had a warning once before , of that false creature man , Whom we like Idols do adore , let us do what we can ; The more they slight , the more we love , when once the suits begun , And never can our hearts remove , till we are quite undone . Printed for J . Wright J . Clarke W . Thackery & amp ; TO . Passenger [ ? ] False men cruelty : While faithless men do Females slight , The more they feel loves pain , And though they do in men delight , They pay them with disdain . Tune of , Jenny Gin , Busy Fame , or , The fair one let me in . W Hen Cupid's fierce and powerful Dart my freedom did bretray , Tormented in my lovesick heart , beneath the shades I lay : Unseen to any where I was , I softly thus begun : Blind boy , thou art unkind alas ! by Love I'm quite undone . Why should I love that faithless Swain that never will me regard ? He laughs at this my scorching pain , and scoffs are my reward : Were I a man I'ld rather die , then when a heart is wone From his truelove away to fly , Oh! thus I am undone . Well faithless C oridon beware , since thou art false to me , Perhaps thou mayest find one that's fair , may prove as false as thee : And when thou liest in Cupids chains scoffed at by e'ry one , Then think upon Florella is pains : that thou hast quite undone , Who then will pity thy distress ? that used thy Lover so , And slighted thy dear Shepherdess , causing her deadly woe : Then all the world condemn thee will , that lives beneath the Sun , And when that thou hast sighed thy fill , then cry , I'm quite undone . TO How shalt not find throughout the plain one that will pity thee , But say , thou art a perjured Swain , and treacherous to me . While I poor Shepherdess lament and languish all alone , Thou shalt be filled with discontent , and cry , thou art undone . How many Swains as false as thee were served in their kind ? And he that once will cruel be shall never pity find : But he may chance to see that face by which he may be wone , He'l pity then his Lovers case that he hath quite undone . Let Virgins that are chaste and true take warning now by me , lest they in time do chance to rue by their credulity ; I cannot help it , though I grieve that I so soon was wone By him that did me so decieve , and hath me quite undone . We females are the weaker Sex , and so it plain appears , Though we for love our selves perplex , and melt away to tears : False men will never pity take , when they our hearts have wone They spite , and slight , and us forsake , and thus we are undone . But why should we be served so ? whose goodness does excel , Or why should we be brought to woe by loving two too well ? And yet alas it's all in vain , for when our hearts are wone We are requited with disdain , lo , thus we are undone . We had a warning once before , of that false creature man , Whom we like Idols do adore , let us do what we can ; The more they slight , the more we love , when once the suits begun , And never can our hearts remove , till we are quite undone . Printed for J . Wright J . Clarke W . Thackery & amp ; TO . Passenger 