The Dead men Song . Whose Dwelling was near Basing H all , in London . Tune is , Flying Fame . S Over sick dear friends long time I was and weakly laid in bed , And for five hours in all men's sighed at length I lay as dead : The Bell rung out , my friends came i [ n ] and I key cold was found , There was my carcase brought from bed , and laid upon the Ground . My loving Wife did weep full soar , my Children loud did cry , My friends did mourn , yet this they said , all flesh is born to die . My winding-sheet prepared was , my Grave was also made , And for five hours in all men's sighed , in this same case I laid , During which time my soul did see , such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclosed , would banish all delights : Yet sith the Lord restored my Life , which from my body fled , I will declare the sights I saw , the time that I was dead . Methought upon a lovely green , where pleasant flowers sprung , I took my way , whereas I thought , the Muses sweetly sung ; The grass was sweet , the trees was fair , and lovely to behold , And full of fruit was every twig , which shined like glistering gold . My cheerful heart desired much , to taste the fruit so fair , But as I reached a fair youngman , to me did make repair . Touch not , said he , it's none of thine , but weened and walk with me , And see thou mark each several thing , which I shall show to thee . I wondered greatly at his words , yet went with him away , Till on a gallant goodly bank , with him he bid me stay : With branches then of Lilies white , mine eyes there wiped he , When this was done , he bade me look what I far off could see . I looked up , and lo at last , I did a City see , So fair a thing did never man behold with mortal eye : Of diamonds , pearls , and precious stones it seems the walls were made . The houses all with beaten gold , were tiled and overlaid . More brighter then the morning Sun , the light thereof did show , And every creature in the same , like crowned Kings did go : The fields about the City fair , were all with Roses set , Gilliflowers and Carnations fair , whom canker could not fret . And from the fields there did proceed , a sweet and pleasant smell , That ever living creature felt , the scent did so excel : Beside such sweet and pleasant mirth , did from the City found , That I therewith was ravished , my joy did so abound . With music , mirth , and melody , Princes did there embrace , But in my heart I longed to be within that blessed place ; The more I gazed the more I might , the sighed pleased me so well , For what I saw in every thing my tongue no way can tell . Then of the man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings did dwell , in J oy and melody : Quoth he that blessed place is heaven , where yet thou canst not rest , And those that do like Princes go , are these whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bade me view and mark as much , what things were to be spied : With that I saw a coalblack Den all taned with soot and smoke , Where stinking brimstone burning was which made me like to choke . And ugly creature there I saw , whose face with knives was slashed , And in a Cauldron of poison filth his ugly corpse were washed , About his neck were sundry Ruffs that flamed on every side , I asked , and lo the youngman said , that he was damned for pride . [ And ] other sort there did I see , whose bowels vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both yell and roar . A Spotted person by each one , stood gnawing on their hearts , And this was Conscience I was told , which plagued their inward parts . They were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their place , A sort still throwing burning fire , which fell against their face : And Ladles full of melted gold , were poured down their throats , And these were set it seemed to me , in midst of burning boats . TO he foremost of the company was Judas I was told , Who had for filthy Lucres sake his Lord and Master sold ; For covetousness he was condemned so it was told to me , And there methought another Rout of Hellhounds I did see . TO heir faces seemed fat in sighed , yet all their bones were bore . And dishes full of crawling TO oads , were made their finest fare : From arms , from hands , from thighs , and feet , with Redhot pincers then , TO he flesh was plucked even from the bone of these vile gluttonous men . On coalblack beds another sort , in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry : With brimstone fierce their pillows eke whereon their heads were laid , And Fiends with glowing whips of fire , their Lecherous flesh off flayed , TO hen did I see another come , stabbed in with Daggers thick , And filthy Fiends with fiery darts , their hearts did wound worser prikin : a And mighty boles of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink , And these men were for murder plagued . from which they could not shrink . I saw when they were gone away , the Swearer and the Liar , And they were hung up by the tongue , over a flaming fire . From eyes , from ears , from navel , & amp ; nose and from their lower parts , The blood methought did gushing run , and clogged like men's hearts . I asked why that punishment was now on Swearers laid , Because , quod he , wounds , heart , and blood were all the Oaths they made : And therewithal from ugly hell , such Grievous cries I herd , As though some greater Grief and care had vexed them afterwards . So that my soul was soar afraid , such terror on me fell , Away then went this youngman quite , and bade me not farewell : Wherefore unto my body straight , my spirit Returned again , And lively blood did afterwards stretch forth in every vein . My closed eyes I opened , and Raised from my swoon , I wondered much to see my self , so laid upon the Ground : Which when my Neighbours did behold , great [ f ] ear upon them fell , To whom soon after I di [ worser ] tell , the news from Heaven and Hell . Printed for J. C. W. T. and T. P . The Dead men Song . Whose Dwelling was near Basing H all , in London . Tune is , Flying Fame . S Over sick dear friends long time I was and weakly laid in bed , And for five hours in all men's sighed at length I lay as dead : The Bell rung out , my friends came i [ n ] and I key cold was found , There was my carcase brought from bed , and laid upon the Ground . My loving Wife did weep full soar , my Children loud did cry , My friends did mourn , yet this they said , all flesh is born to die . My winding-sheet prepared was , my Grave was also made , And for five hours in all men's sighed , in this same case I laid , During which time my soul did see , such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclosed , would banish all delights : Yet sith the Lord restored my Life , which from my body fled , I will declare the sights I saw , the time that I was dead . Methought upon a lovely green , where pleasant flowers sprung , I took my way , whereas I thought , the Muses sweetly sung ; The grass was sweet , the trees was fair , and lovely to behold , And full of fruit was every twig , which shined like glistering gold . My cheerful heart desired much , to taste the fruit so fair , But as I reached a fair youngman , to me did make repair . Touch not , said he , it's none of thine , but weened and walk with me , And see thou mark each several thing , which I shall show to thee . I wondered greatly at his words , yet went with him away , Till on a gallant goodly bank , with him he bid me stay : With branches then of Lilies white , mine eyes there wiped he , When this was done , he bade me look what I far off could see . I looked up , and lo at last , I did a City see , So fair a thing did never man behold with mortal eye : Of diamonds , pearls , and precious stones it seems the walls were made . The houses all with beaten gold , were tiled and overlaid . More brighter then the morning Sun , the light thereof did show , And every creature in the same , like crowned Kings did go : The fields about the City fair , were all with Roses set , Gilliflowers and Carnations fair , whom canker could not fret . And from the fields there did proceed , a sweet and pleasant smell , That ever living creature felt , the scent did so excel : Beside such sweet and pleasant mirth , did from the City found , That I therewith was ravished , my joy did so abound . With music , mirth , and melody , Princes did there embrace , But in my heart I longed to be within that blessed place ; The more I gazed the more I might , the sighed pleased me so well , For what I saw in every thing my tongue no way can tell . Then of the man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings did dwell , in J oy and melody : Quoth he that blessed place is heaven , where yet thou canst not rest , And those that do like Princes go , are these whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bade me view and mark as much , what things were to be spied : With that I saw a coalblack Den all taned with soot and smoke , Where stinking brimstone burning was which made me like to choke . And ugly creature there I saw , whose face with knives was slashed , And in a Cauldron of poison filth his ugly corpse were washed , About his neck were sundry Ruffs that flamed on every side , I asked , and lo the youngman said , that he was damned for pride . [ And ] other sort there did I see , whose bowels vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both yell and roar . A Spotted person by each one , stood gnawing on their hearts , And this was Conscience I was told , which plagued their inward parts . They were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their place , A sort still throwing burning fire , which fell against their face : And Ladles full of melted gold , were poured down their throats , And these were set it seemed to me , in midst of burning boats . TO he foremost of the company was Judas I was told , Who had for filthy Lucres sake his Lord and Master sold ; For covetousness he was condemned so it was told to me , And there methought another Rout of Hellhounds I did see . TO heir faces seemed fat in sighed , yet all their bones were bore . And dishes full of crawling TO oads , were made their finest fare : From arms , from hands , from thighs , and feet , with Redhot pincers then , TO he flesh was plucked even from the bone of these vile gluttonous men . On coalblack beds another sort , in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry : With brimstone fierce their pillows eke whereon their heads were laid , And Fiends with glowing whips of fire , their Lecherous flesh off flayed , TO hen did I see another come , stabbed in with Daggers thick , And filthy Fiends with fiery darts , their hearts did wound worser prikin : a And mighty boles of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink , And these men were for murder plagued . from which they could not shrink . I saw when they were gone away , the Swearer and the Liar , And they were hung up by the tongue , over a flaming fire . From eyes , from ears , from navel , & amp ; nose and from their lower parts , The blood methought did gushing run , and clogged like men's hearts . I asked why that punishment was now on Swearers laid , Because , quod he , wounds , heart , and blood were all the Oaths they made : And therewithal from ugly hell , such Grievous cries I herd , As though some greater Grief and care had vexed them afterwards . So that my soul was soar afraid , such terror on me fell , Away then went this youngman quite , and bade me not farewell : Wherefore unto my body straight , my spirit Returned again , And lively blood did afterwards stretch forth in every vein . My closed eyes I opened , and Raised from my swoon , I wondered much to see my self , so laid upon the Ground : Which when my Neighbours did behold , great [ f ] ear upon them fell , To whom soon after I di [ worser ] tell , the news from Heaven and Hell . Printed for J. C. W. T. and T. P . 