A sweet and Pleasant Sonnet , Entitled , My Mind to me a Kingdom is . The Tune is , In Creet , etc . M Y mind to me a Kingdom is , such perfect joys therein I find , It far exceeds all earthly bliss , the world affords , or grows by kind , Though much I want that most men have , Yet does my mind forbid me crave . Content I live this is my stay , I seek no more then may suffice , I press to bear no haughty sway , look what I lack , my mind supplies , Lo thus I triumph like a King , Content with that my mind do bring . I see how plenty surfeits oft , and hasty climbers oft do fallen , I see how those that fit aloft , mishap does threaten most of all : They get , they toil , they spend with care , Such cares my mind could never bear . I laugh not at a another's loss , I grudge not at another's gain , No worldly wave my mind can toss , I brook that is another's bane , I fear no foe , I scorn no friend , [ I ] dread no death , I fear no end . Some have too much , yet still they crave , I little have , yet seek no more , They are but poor , though much they have and I am rich with little store : They poor , I rich , they beg , I give , They lack , I lend , they pine , I live . My Wealth is health and perfect ease , my Conscience clear , my chief defence , I never seek by bribes to please , nor by desert to give offence , Lo thus I Live , thus will I die , Would all did so as well as I . No Princely Pomp , no wealthy store , no force to get the victory , No wily wit to salve a soar , no shape to win a Lovers eye , To none of these I yield as thrall , For why my mind despised all . I joy not at and earthly bliss , I weigh not Craesus wealth a straw , For care , I care not what it is , I fear no Fortune's fatal Law , My mind is such as may not move , For beauty bright , or force of Love . I wish not what have at will , I wander not to seek for more , I like the plain , I climb no hill , in greatest storm I fit on Shore , And laugh at those that toil in vain , To get that must be lost again . I kiss not where I wish to kill , I feign no love where I most hate , I break no sleep to win my I will , I wait not at the mighties Gate , I scorn no poor , I fear no rich , I feel no want , nor have too much . The Court ne Cart , I like , ne loath , extremes are counted worst of all , The Golden mean betwixt them both , does surest fit , and fears no fallen ; This is my choice for why I find , No wealth is like a quiet mind . FINIS . A proper new Ballad of a Dream of a Sinner , being very soar troubled with the Assaults of Satan . To the Tune of , Rogero . I N slumbering sleep I lay , all night alone in bed , A Vision very strange there came into my head , Methought the day of Doom , undoubtedly was come , And Christ himself was there , to judge both all and some . My self was sent for there , with found of Trumpet shrill , Which said , All souls come hear , your Sentence good or ill . I sat in mind amazed , at that same sudden voice , For in my own good life , no whit I could rejoice . With panting breasts I paused at that same sudden sighed , Not trusting to my self , but to Christs mercies great . I was no sooner named , but Satan came methought With him a Roll full large , of all my life he brought . And said before the Lord , how that I was his own , And would have had me then , my sins so great were grown , I quaking lay with fear , and wist not what to do , But in the blood of Christ I trusted still unto . Then said our Saviour Christ , foul Satan end thy strife , Look if the Sinners name , be in the Book of Life . If he be entered there , then he must needs be blessed , His sins are washed away ; his soul with me shall rest . Then Satan took the Book , did leaf by leaf unfold , And there he found my name in Letters Limbed in Gold . Then Satan sorrowed much , at that same sudden sighed , And said unto the Lord , thy judgements are not right . And thus our Saviour sweet , said to him by and by , Thou Satan know full well , that I for since did die . Redeeming all the world , once overthrown by thee , And so will save all such as truly trust in me . My mortal Foe was wrath , that he had lost his prey , Extremely vexed he was , and vanished quite away . But that I thus was Billed , within that blessed Book , Out of my slumbering sleep most joyfully awoke : Still praying unto the Lord , that always sinners may , From Satan be set free , of the last dreadful day . That after earthly toil , we may heavens joys attain Here learn to live , to die , that we may live again , Our Noble Royal King , God grant him long to reign , To live in joy and Peace , the Gospel to maintain . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A sweet and Pleasant Sonnet , Entitled , My Mind to me a Kingdom is . The Tune is , In Creet , etc . M Y mind to me a Kingdom is , such perfect joys therein I find , It far exceeds all earthly bliss , the world affords , or grows by kind , Though much I want that most men have , Yet does my mind forbid me crave . Content I live this is my stay , I seek no more then may suffice , I press to bear no haughty sway , look what I lack , my mind supplies , Lo thus I triumph like a King , Content with that my mind do bring . I see how plenty surfeits oft , and hasty climbers oft do fallen , I see how those that fit aloft , mishap does threaten most of all : They get , they toil , they spend with care , Such cares my mind could never bear . I laugh not at a another's loss , I grudge not at another's gain , No worldly wave my mind can toss , I brook that is another's bane , I fear no foe , I scorn no friend , [ I ] dread no death , I fear no end . Some have too much , yet still they crave , I little have , yet seek no more , They are but poor , though much they have and I am rich with little store : They poor , I rich , they beg , I give , They lack , I lend , they pine , I live . My Wealth is health and perfect ease , my Conscience clear , my chief defence , I never seek by bribes to please , nor by desert to give offence , Lo thus I Live , thus will I die , Would all did so as well as I . No Princely Pomp , no wealthy store , no force to get the victory , No wily wit to salve a soar , no shape to win a Lovers eye , To none of these I yield as thrall , For why my mind despised all . I joy not at and earthly bliss , I weigh not Craesus wealth a straw , For care , I care not what it is , I fear no Fortune's fatal Law , My mind is such as may not move , For beauty bright , or force of Love . I wish not what have at will , I wander not to seek for more , I like the plain , I climb no hill , in greatest storm I fit on Shore , And laugh at those that toil in vain , To get that must be lost again . I kiss not where I wish to kill , I feign no love where I most hate , I break no sleep to win my I will , I wait not at the mighties Gate , I scorn no poor , I fear no rich , I feel no want , nor have too much . The Court ne Cart , I like , ne loath , extremes are counted worst of all , The Golden mean betwixt them both , does surest fit , and fears no fallen ; This is my choice for why I find , No wealth is like a quiet mind . FINIS . A proper new Ballad of a Dream of a Sinner , being very soar troubled with the Assaults of Satan . To the Tune of , Rogero . I N slumbering sleep I lay , all night alone in bed , A Vision very strange there came into my head , Methought the day of Doom , undoubtedly was come , And Christ himself was there , to judge both all and some . My self was sent for there , with found of Trumpet shrill , Which said , All souls come hear , your Sentence good or ill . I sat in mind amazed , at that same sudden voice , For in my own good life , no whit I could rejoice . With panting breasts I paused at that same sudden sighed , Not trusting to my self , but to Christs mercies great . I was no sooner named , but Satan came methought With him a Roll full large , of all my life he brought . And said before the Lord , how that I was his own , And would have had me then , my sins so great were grown , I quaking lay with fear , and wist not what to do , But in the blood of Christ I trusted still unto . Then said our Saviour Christ , foul Satan end thy strife , Look if the Sinners name , be in the Book of Life . If he be entered there , then he must needs be blessed , His sins are washed away ; his soul with me shall rest . Then Satan took the Book , did leaf by leaf unfold , And there he found my name in Letters Limbed in Gold . Then Satan sorrowed much , at that same sudden sighed , And said unto the Lord , thy judgements are not right . And thus our Saviour sweet , said to him by and by , Thou Satan know full well , that I for since did die . Redeeming all the world , once overthrown by thee , And so will save all such as truly trust in me . My mortal Foe was wrath , that he had lost his prey , Extremely vexed he was , and vanished quite away . But that I thus was Billed , within that blessed Book , Out of my slumbering sleep most joyfully awoke : Still praying unto the Lord , that always sinners may , From Satan be set free , of the last dreadful day . That after earthly toil , we may heavens joys attain Here learn to live , to die , that we may live again , Our Noble Royal King , God grant him long to reign , To live in joy and Peace , the Gospel to maintain . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 