A new Ditty , showing the Wondered Miracles of our Lord Jesus Christ , which he did while he remained on Earth . Tune is , Triumph and joy . W Hen Jesus Christ was 12 years Old , As holy Scriptures plainly told , He then disputed brave and bold , among the Learned Doctors : Who wondered greatly at his Wit , As in the Temple they did fit , For no man Might compare with it , his wisdom was so Heavenly . Then praise the Lord both high and low Which all these wondrous works does show That we to Heaven at length may go , where he in Glory reigneth . At thirty years he then began , To preach the Gospel unto man , And all Judea wondered than , to hear his Heavenly Doctrine : Such works he did as made them muse , Among the proud hardhearted Jews , Yet never more they did refuse , to take him for their Saviour . Then praise , etc . For first of all by power Divine , He changed water into Wine , When at the Marriage he did dine , which made the people wonder : Moreover with seven Loaves of Bred , Seven thousand men he fully fed , Which was a wonder great indeed , throughout the land of Jury . Then praise , etc . And by his Glorious power and might , Unto the blind he gave their sighed , For which the Jews boar him a spite , who sought for to destroy him : The man who was both Deaf and Dumb , Which never herd nor spoke with tongue , By Christ was herd when he did come , whose praise he then pronounced . Then praise , etc . The woman that was grieved soar , With and issue of blood twelve years and more Unto her health he did restore , in a minute of and hour : The Captains man that sick did lie , Our Saviour healed presently , Although he never came him nigh , his word alone did help him . Then praise etc . Like wise he healed the Leapers ten , Whose bodies were most filthy then , Yet none but one did come again , him humble thanks to render : And he that sick of the Palsy lay , With shaking joints many a day , The Lord to heal him did not stay , but straight his will fulfilled . Then praise , etc . The halt and Lame that could not go , But still remained in great woe ; Our Saviour Christ did pity show , and made him whole and lusty : The man that was with Devils possessed , And never lived in peace or rest , By Christ his word at length was blessed , and they were clean cast from him . Then praise , etc . The Widows Son that sick did lie , When Christ our Saviour came him nigh , He raised to life immediately , unto her joy and comfort : When Mary and Martha made great moan Because her Brother was dead and gone , Our Lord put him in Life alone , and he from grave came running . Then praise , etc . And more his Heavenly might did show , Upon the Seas himself did go , And never none could yet do so , but only Christ our Saviour : And when the Soldiers with great might , Did look to take him in the night , They were not able to stand in sighed , till he the same permitted . Then praise , etc . But yet for all these wonders great , The Jews was in a raging heat , Whom no persuasions could entreat , but cruelly did kill him : And when he left his life so good , The Moon was turned into blood , The earth and Temple shaking stood , and Graves full wide did open . Then praise , etc . Then some of them that stood thereby , With voice aloud began to cry , This was the Son of God truly , without all kind of doubting : And as they said it proved plain , For in three days he rose again , Although he suffered bitter pain , both Heaven and Hell he conquered . Then praise , etc . And after that ascended he , to Heaven in Glorious Majesty , With whom God send us all to be , for evermore rejoicing : Then praise the Lord both high and low , Which all these wondrous works does show That we to Heaven at length may go , where he in Glory reigneth . A new Ditty , showing the Wondered Miracles of our Lord Jesus Christ , which he did while he remained on Earth . Tune is , Triumph and joy . W Hen Jesus Christ was 12 years Old , As holy Scriptures plainly told , He then disputed brave and bold , among the Learned Doctors : Who wondered greatly at his Wit , As in the Temple they did fit , For no man Might compare with it , his wisdom was so Heavenly . Then praise the Lord both high and low Which all these wondrous works does show That we to Heaven at length may go , where he in Glory reigneth . At thirty years he then began , To preach the Gospel unto man , And all Judea wondered than , to hear his Heavenly Doctrine : Such works he did as made them muse , Among the proud hardhearted Jews , Yet never more they did refuse , to take him for their Saviour . Then praise , etc . For first of all by power Divine , He changed water into Wine , When at the Marriage he did dine , which made the people wonder : Moreover with seven Loaves of Bred , Seven thousand men he fully fed , Which was a wonder great indeed , throughout the land of Jury . Then praise , etc . And by his Glorious power and might , Unto the blind he gave their sighed , For which the Jews boar him a spite , who sought for to destroy him : The man who was both Deaf and Dumb , Which never herd nor spoke with tongue , By Christ was herd when he did come , whose praise he then pronounced . Then praise , etc . The woman that was grieved soar , With and issue of blood twelve years and more Unto her health he did restore , in a minute of and hour : The Captains man that sick did lie , Our Saviour healed presently , Although he never came him nigh , his word alone did help him . Then praise etc . Like wise he healed the Leapers ten , Whose bodies were most filthy then , Yet none but one did come again , him humble thanks to render : And he that sick of the Palsy lay , With shaking joints many a day , The Lord to heal him did not stay , but straight his will fulfilled . Then praise , etc . The halt and Lame that could not go , But still remained in great woe ; Our Saviour Christ did pity show , and made him whole and lusty : The man that was with Devils possessed , And never lived in peace or rest , By Christ his word at length was blessed , and they were clean cast from him . Then praise , etc . The Widows Son that sick did lie , When Christ our Saviour came him nigh , He raised to life immediately , unto her joy and comfort : When Mary and Martha made great moan Because her Brother was dead and gone , Our Lord put him in Life alone , and he from grave came running . Then praise , etc . And more his Heavenly might did show , Upon the Seas himself did go , And never none could yet do so , but only Christ our Saviour : And when the Soldiers with great might , Did look to take him in the night , They were not able to stand in sighed , till he the same permitted . Then praise , etc . But yet for all these wonders great , The Jews was in a raging heat , Whom no persuasions could entreat , but cruelly did kill him : And when he left his life so good , The Moon was turned into blood , The earth and Temple shaking stood , and Graves full wide did open . Then praise , etc . Then some of them that stood thereby , With voice aloud began to cry , This was the Son of God truly , without all kind of doubting : And as they said it proved plain , For in three days he rose again , Although he suffered bitter pain , both Heaven and Hell he conquered . Then praise , etc . And after that ascended he , to Heaven in Glorious Majesty , With whom God send us all to be , for evermore rejoicing : Then praise the Lord both high and low , Which all these wondrous works does show That we to Heaven at length may go , where he in Glory reigneth . 