Englands Present State . Poor England now is soar oppressed , The more it is the pity , But God preserve our Sovereign King , And eke preserve the City . Tune of , Old England's now grown New . P Oor England the world at thee does admire , To see that thy enemies still do conspire , They still seek thy ruin by Sword and by Fire ; O are not these times grown strange , grown strange O are not these times grown strange . Thou once were't as happy as some of the rest , Thy happiness now bloody Villains infest , But they for their tricks can never be blessed : O are not these times grown strange , etc Instead of good Trading now Plots they devise , They are filled up with Shams and composed of lies They do wickedness love , and all goodness despise , O are not these times grown strange , etc Now where is the Gold that once plenty was here We instead of Estates are now filled with fear , Of losing our Lives and all that is dear ; O are not the times grown strange , grown strange O are not these times grown strange . Now where's the brave fellows that frighted the French And made him appear like a pitiful Prince , Now he's a brave fellow that's best at a Wench , O are not these times grown strange , etc In times that are past men that had estates Kept brave open houses , now Porters at gates , And spend all on Misses , & amp ; Whigs , for their pates , O are not these times grown strange , etc Some men have complained they money did want , But honesty now I do find is more scant , He's a fool counted that can't damn him and rant , O are not the times grown strange , grown strange O are not these times grown strange . Now all civil dresses are quite laid aside , And never were men so addicted to Pride , Now every Jack wears a Sword by his side , O are not these times grown strange , etc , There's nothing gentle that now comes in fashion , Except it be used first in the French Nation , For we must be sure of Mounsieurs Approbation , O are not these times grown strange , etc Now Loyalty too much is kicked out of door , And none more esteemed than proud Babylons whore Still hoping to bring England lower and lower , O are not these times grown strange , etc And plotting of Treasons are some men's delight Who in deeds of darkness do take their delight , They'll pleasure the Devil to show their despite , O are not these times grown strange , etc To charge honest men of their hatching of Treason I fear will a fashion be in a short season , Though what is alleged is against sense and reason . O is not these times grown strange , etc False-swearing is now too common a thing , Of some bloody swearers all England does ring , And yet they pretend they are true to the King , O are not these times grown strange , etc , He that loves the King well does his Subject's love too Believe what I say for I'm sure it is true , But beware of the blades that bid Conscience adieu , O are not these times grown strange , etc The Whigs and the Tories each other asperse , I blush when such foolish things I do rehearse ; The like was never yet in the whole Universe , O are not these times grown strange , etc And now to conclude I wish all to agree , If so ; there would none be more happy than we , God himself does delight in love and unity , O this same is true and not strange , not strange , O this same is true and not strange . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark . W. Than [ c ] kery : T. Passenger , Englands Present State . Poor England now is soar oppressed , The more it is the pity , But God preserve our Sovereign King , And eke preserve the City . Tune of , Old England's now grown New . P Oor England the world at thee does admire , To see that thy enemies still do conspire , They still seek thy ruin by Sword and by Fire ; O are not these times grown strange , grown strange O are not these times grown strange . Thou once were't as happy as some of the rest , Thy happiness now bloody Villains infest , But they for their tricks can never be blessed : O are not these times grown strange , etc Instead of good Trading now Plots they devise , They are filled up with Shams and composed of lies They do wickedness love , and all goodness despise , O are not these times grown strange , etc Now where is the Gold that once plenty was here We instead of Estates are now filled with fear , Of losing our Lives and all that is dear ; O are not the times grown strange , grown strange O are not these times grown strange . Now where's the brave fellows that frighted the French And made him appear like a pitiful Prince , Now he's a brave fellow that's best at a Wench , O are not these times grown strange , etc In times that are past men that had estates Kept brave open houses , now Porters at gates , And spend all on Misses , & amp ; Whigs , for their pates , O are not these times grown strange , etc Some men have complained they money did want , But honesty now I do find is more scant , He's a fool counted that can't damn him and rant , O are not the times grown strange , grown strange O are not these times grown strange . Now all civil dresses are quite laid aside , And never were men so addicted to Pride , Now every Jack wears a Sword by his side , O are not these times grown strange , etc , There's nothing gentle that now comes in fashion , Except it be used first in the French Nation , For we must be sure of Mounsieurs Approbation , O are not these times grown strange , etc Now Loyalty too much is kicked out of door , And none more esteemed than proud Babylons whore Still hoping to bring England lower and lower , O are not these times grown strange , etc And plotting of Treasons are some men's delight Who in deeds of darkness do take their delight , They'll pleasure the Devil to show their despite , O are not these times grown strange , etc To charge honest men of their hatching of Treason I fear will a fashion be in a short season , Though what is alleged is against sense and reason . O is not these times grown strange , etc False-swearing is now too common a thing , Of some bloody swearers all England does ring , And yet they pretend they are true to the King , O are not these times grown strange , etc , He that loves the King well does his Subject's love too Believe what I say for I'm sure it is true , But beware of the blades that bid Conscience adieu , O are not these times grown strange , etc The Whigs and the Tories each other asperse , I blush when such foolish things I do rehearse ; The like was never yet in the whole Universe , O are not these times grown strange , etc And now to conclude I wish all to agree , If so ; there would none be more happy than we , God himself does delight in love and unity , O this same is true and not strange , not strange , O this same is true and not strange . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark . W. Than [ c ] kery : T. Passenger , 