You pretty little Ladies will do so . Or , A Match made up against the Whitson-Holidays . This Dity was composed , the truth is so , By a Youngman that did a Maiden woo ; He met with her under a shady Bower , And made a Lady of her in and hour . All you Youngmen that know not how to woo , Give ear to this , it'll teach you what to do . To the Tune of , Lusty Bacchus , etc F Orth walking in the Summer's time When Flora's flowers were in their prime Under a sweet perfumed shade , I saw a Youngman and a Maid , With compliments he did her crave , Something which he desired to have , But to this question she said no , You pretty little Ladies will do so , The gallant Youth to her did say , I'll make of thee a Lady gay , I'll deck thy head like Loves fair Queen And Cloth thee in a Gown of green : Sweet Lady shall this bargain hold Kiss on condition make me bold , What though at first you said me not ; You pretty little Ladies will do so . Sweet sir , she thus replied again , Spend not your breath and time in vain , For any thing you crave of me , I will deny it certainly , And whatsoever you do say , I'll answer you another way , And when you ask me , I'll say no ; Quoth he , you pretty Ladys will do so Lady said he , it is my choice , When I shall elevate my voice , For to record a trueloves song : In which I mean no Goddess wrong , Will you deny to bear a part And forthwith break my lovesick heart , Will you ; quoth he , she answered no ; You pretty little Ladies will do so - I If I should ask you to do this To enrich my lips with on sweet kiss , It would better be ten thosand fold To me , than was great Craesus gold One honey kiss will end the strife If other wise it'll cost my life , Shall I die or live , say I or no : You pretty little Ladies can do so . My person pure , my heart and hand , Shall ever be at thy command ; I'll ride and run at your desire , Through water cold , or flames of fire , What is't that i'll not undertake , If I could once but hear thee speak One loving word to ease my woe ? You pretty Ladies , etc This is the prime time of the year , This is time to make good cheer , This is the time called Whitsontide , This time I will make thee my Bride , If you thereto will give consent , TO his match we never need repent , Both hand in hand , to Church we'll go . You pretty Ladies will do so . Five hundred pound I have said he , All which I will bestow on thee , Beside Corn , sheep , and Cattle store And all that I have spoke before : you shall have servants great and small , TO oh wait on you when ever you call , What you'll have done command them do You pretty little Ladies will do so . You shall be fed with diet fine , Your drink shall be the purest wine , TO he rarest Music can be had , Cheerfully shall play to make you glad And when you hear the Music found , Ifed please you for to dance a round , And nimbly trip it with the toe , You pretty little Ladies can do so . When she had herd his compliment , And he related his intent ; About his neck her arms she clips , And with sweet kisses imbalmed his lips And in requital of her pain He paid her with the like again : She left her note of answering no ; You pretty little Ladies will do so . At length being ravished both with joy , One to the other seemed not coy , But on a sudden down they fell , How he came of I cannot tell , But sure they drive some pretty trade , Cupid and Venus lent them aid : TO heigh did as other Lovers do : You pretty little Ladies will do so . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . You pretty little Ladies will do so . Or , A Match made up against the Whitson-Holidays . This Dity was composed , the truth is so , By a Youngman that did a Maiden woo ; He met with her under a shady Bower , And made a Lady of her in and hour . All you Youngmen that know not how to woo , Give ear to this , it'll teach you what to do . To the Tune of , Lusty Bacchus , etc F Orth walking in the Summer's time When Flora's flowers were in their prime Under a sweet perfumed shade , I saw a Youngman and a Maid , With compliments he did her crave , Something which he desired to have , But to this question she said no , You pretty little Ladies will do so , The gallant Youth to her did say , I'll make of thee a Lady gay , I'll deck thy head like Loves fair Queen And Cloth thee in a Gown of green : Sweet Lady shall this bargain hold Kiss on condition make me bold , What though at first you said me not ; You pretty little Ladies will do so . Sweet sir , she thus replied again , Spend not your breath and time in vain , For any thing you crave of me , I will deny it certainly , And whatsoever you do say , I'll answer you another way , And when you ask me , I'll say no ; Quoth he , you pretty Ladys will do so Lady said he , it is my choice , When I shall elevate my voice , For to record a trueloves song : In which I mean no Goddess wrong , Will you deny to bear a part And forthwith break my lovesick heart , Will you ; quoth he , she answered no ; You pretty little Ladies will do so - I If I should ask you to do this To enrich my lips with on sweet kiss , It would better be ten thosand fold To me , than was great Craesus gold One honey kiss will end the strife If other wise it'll cost my life , Shall I die or live , say I or no : You pretty little Ladies can do so . My person pure , my heart and hand , Shall ever be at thy command ; I'll ride and run at your desire , Through water cold , or flames of fire , What is't that i'll not undertake , If I could once but hear thee speak One loving word to ease my woe ? You pretty Ladies , etc This is the prime time of the year , This is time to make good cheer , This is the time called Whitsontide , This time I will make thee my Bride , If you thereto will give consent , TO his match we never need repent , Both hand in hand , to Church we'll go . You pretty Ladies will do so . Five hundred pound I have said he , All which I will bestow on thee , Beside Corn , sheep , and Cattle store And all that I have spoke before : you shall have servants great and small , TO oh wait on you when ever you call , What you'll have done command them do You pretty little Ladies will do so . You shall be fed with diet fine , Your drink shall be the purest wine , TO he rarest Music can be had , Cheerfully shall play to make you glad And when you hear the Music found , Ifed please you for to dance a round , And nimbly trip it with the toe , You pretty little Ladies can do so . When she had herd his compliment , And he related his intent ; About his neck her arms she clips , And with sweet kisses imbalmed his lips And in requital of her pain He paid her with the like again : She left her note of answering no ; You pretty little Ladies will do so . At length being ravished both with joy , One to the other seemed not coy , But on a sudden down they fell , How he came of I cannot tell , But sure they drive some pretty trade , Cupid and Venus lent them aid : TO heigh did as other Lovers do : You pretty little Ladies will do so . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 