THE Somersetshire Damsel beguiled ; OR , The Bonny Baker Chused in his Bargain . The Baker Wedded her in haste , And after that was done , She brought him ever Five months space A Daughter and a Son. To the Tune of , The Two English-Travellers , This may be Printed , R. P. A Beautiful Damsel from Sommerset-Shire , Came up to the City of London we hear ; And she was delightful , both proper and Tall , And accident to her at length did befall . For many a Suitor then courted her still , Who daily endeavoured to gain her good will ; The First was a Barber , a jocular Blade , Who was in attire most Richly arrayed . The next was a Farrier whose fortune was great His friends they had left him a worthy estate ; He treated her kindly , but all was in vain , She slighted his proffer with scorn and disdain . The next was a Baker who called her his dear , Resolved he was to come in for a share , In this kind of language she answered him to Be gone , and pack off with the rest of the crew . A ranting gallant did this Damsel surprise , His Robes was so rich that he dazzled her eyes , Rich fringing and ruffles most gallant & amp ; gay , With eloquent language he did her betray . He gave her a Ring with a bracelet of Pearl , Then kissed her , and called her his amorous Girl ; Said he thou wilt tell , if this night I should lie With thee my sweet creature , she said no not I What pleasure & amp ; pastime this couple did take , I shall not discover for modesty's sake ; This gallant soon after did surely refrain Her company clearly , with scorn and disdain . O then she was in a most pitiful case , For finding and fearing her future disgrace ; now where are those tradesmen the damsel replied I wish one would come now & amp ; make me his bride I'll go to the Barber he was my first Love , And see what he says , & amp ; if pity will move His tender affection , he knows not my crime , To him i'll be married , for now this high time . And Innocent story to him she did tell , He knew by her humour that all was not well ; He said you was cruel and used me unkind , You might have took me when I was in the mind I'll go to the Farrier , he once courted me , He may be more loving and kinder then he , But when she came to him he made her a vow , That he would have nothing to do with her now . Away to the Baker she went with all speed , He must be the man that must now do the deed ; To Father the Child be it daughter or Son , If he does not marry me I am undone . The Baker was joyful and ended the strife , He freely embraced her and made her his wife ; The wedding was kept with much joy & amp ; good cheer With music & amp ; dancing to pleasure his dear . But twenty weeks after to finish their mirth , She brought him a daughter & amp ; son at a birth . His charge coming on he did heartily rue , He hung down his ears & amp ; looked pitiful blue . For now he had every thing to provide , As Blanket and Cradles with gossips beside ; With twenty things more which he must prepare , Was ever poor man so encumbered with care . Alas he lamented , and made piteous moan , As fearing the brats they were none of his own ; The Gossips excusing her thus they did say This twenty by night man and twenty by day . The reason she came in so little a time , She's youthful and fruitful & amp ; just in her prime . If that be the reason , in love he replied , I take them as blessings , then kissed his Bride . He soon was persuaded the matter went well , Their joys in abundance his grief did excel The peace being made between him & amp ; his spouse , They fill out the Liquour and drink a carouse . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the L ooking-Glass on L ondon-bridge . THE Somersetshire Damsel beguiled ; OR , The Bonny Baker Chused in his Bargain . The Baker Wedded her in haste , And after that was done , She brought him ever Five months space A Daughter and a Son. To the Tune of , The Two English-Travellers , This may be Printed , R. P. A Beautiful Damsel from Sommerset-Shire , Came up to the City of London we hear ; And she was delightful , both proper and Tall , And accident to her at length did befall . For many a Suitor then courted her still , Who daily endeavoured to gain her good will ; The First was a Barber , a jocular Blade , Who was in attire most Richly arrayed . The next was a Farrier whose fortune was great His friends they had left him a worthy estate ; He treated her kindly , but all was in vain , She slighted his proffer with scorn and disdain . The next was a Baker who called her his dear , Resolved he was to come in for a share , In this kind of language she answered him to Be gone , and pack off with the rest of the crew . A ranting gallant did this Damsel surprise , His Robes was so rich that he dazzled her eyes , Rich fringing and ruffles most gallant & amp ; gay , With eloquent language he did her betray . He gave her a Ring with a bracelet of Pearl , Then kissed her , and called her his amorous Girl ; Said he thou wilt tell , if this night I should lie With thee my sweet creature , she said no not I What pleasure & amp ; pastime this couple did take , I shall not discover for modesty's sake ; This gallant soon after did surely refrain Her company clearly , with scorn and disdain . O then she was in a most pitiful case , For finding and fearing her future disgrace ; now where are those tradesmen the damsel replied I wish one would come now & amp ; make me his bride I'll go to the Barber he was my first Love , And see what he says , & amp ; if pity will move His tender affection , he knows not my crime , To him i'll be married , for now this high time . And Innocent story to him she did tell , He knew by her humour that all was not well ; He said you was cruel and used me unkind , You might have took me when I was in the mind I'll go to the Farrier , he once courted me , He may be more loving and kinder then he , But when she came to him he made her a vow , That he would have nothing to do with her now . Away to the Baker she went with all speed , He must be the man that must now do the deed ; To Father the Child be it daughter or Son , If he does not marry me I am undone . The Baker was joyful and ended the strife , He freely embraced her and made her his wife ; The wedding was kept with much joy & amp ; good cheer With music & amp ; dancing to pleasure his dear . But twenty weeks after to finish their mirth , She brought him a daughter & amp ; son at a birth . His charge coming on he did heartily rue , He hung down his ears & amp ; looked pitiful blue . For now he had every thing to provide , As Blanket and Cradles with gossips beside ; With twenty things more which he must prepare , Was ever poor man so encumbered with care . Alas he lamented , and made piteous moan , As fearing the brats they were none of his own ; The Gossips excusing her thus they did say This twenty by night man and twenty by day . The reason she came in so little a time , She's youthful and fruitful & amp ; just in her prime . If that be the reason , in love he replied , I take them as blessings , then kissed his Bride . He soon was persuaded the matter went well , Their joys in abundance his grief did excel The peace being made between him & amp ; his spouse , They fill out the Liquour and drink a carouse . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the L ooking-Glass on L ondon-bridge . 