The North Country lovers : Or : The plain Downright wooing between John and Joan . A Pleasant new Song as it was sung before the Court at Windsor . Johney Addresses to his Joan most dear And on her Piggsneys casts many a lear , Telling her how he wealth and love had god The which so far transports the subtel slut , That unto Venus sport she drew him in And in her mortrice fastened straight his pin TO oh a New tune . Quoth John to Joan. John. Q Uoth John to Joan what wilt thou have me , I prithee now doe and i'll marry with thee , My Cow and Calf my house and Rends And all my Lands and Tenments . Say my Joan , say my Joan will not this do , I connote I connote come every every day to woe . [ I have Coin and Hay in the Barn hard by and three fat Hogs pend up in the sty , I have a mare and she is coal black I ride on er Tail instead of er back Say my Joan , say my Joan what wilt thou do , I connote I connote come every every day to woe . I have a Choose upon the shelf ] In the Nook of a Chimney instead of a Bag. Say my Joan , say my Joan will not this do , I connote I connote come every every day to woe . To marry I would have thy consent But I faith I connote compliment , I connote court but heigh gee who [ Such as I lay at Cart or Blow , Say my Joan , say my Joan what wilt thou do I connote nounds I connote come every day to woe . Joan. What i'st my John that thou wouldst would A milkling I must and cannot stay , I'll hear mine Kine begin to mooe , And i'm must dabble in the due . Then say me John say me John what wouldst thou do ] Come shall we gang to yonder hedge To see if Margery be fledge , Or i'm tomorrow gang to kirk And i'll proved for thee a Sirk , Say my John say my John what wouldst thou do Since you connote , etc John. Udswbs i [ ' ] se like it wondrous well But thinkest thou that the hedge wont tell For if it should by these new shoone I'm in revenge would cut it down , Then say my Joan say my Joan wilt thou do I connote I connote , etc Joan. I'm under yond broad Oak will lie Upon mine back to see the Sky , But first you shall sear on my pail That you to morrow will not fail . Say my John say my John what wilt thou do Since you connote , etc John . Now we are come unto the place Let me my pretty big embrace , To morrow for the marriage day And then the Priest will bid us play . Say my Joan say my Joan shall I do I connote , etc Joan. But after this now we must part Which grieves poor Joan unto the heart , But till tomorrow we divide And then I'm shall be Johney's bride Say my John say my John when must we do Since you connote , etc [ John. I marry that thou and have all That thy Johney his own can call Farewell then till tomorrow day And then we'll freely sport and play Say my Joan say my Joan is not this true Seeing I connote I connote come ever every day to woe ] The North Country lovers : Or : The plain Downright wooing between John and Joan . A Pleasant new Song as it was sung before the Court at Windsor . Johney Addresses to his Joan most dear And on her Piggsneys casts many a lear , Telling her how he wealth and love had god The which so far transports the subtel slut , That unto Venus sport she drew him in And in her mortrice fastened straight his pin TO oh a New tune . Quoth John to Joan. John. Q Uoth John to Joan what wilt thou have me , I prithee now doe and i'll marry with thee , My Cow and Calf my house and Rends And all my Lands and Tenments . Say my Joan , say my Joan will not this do , I connote I connote come every every day to woe . [ I have Coin and Hay in the Barn hard by and three fat Hogs pend up in the sty , I have a mare and she is coal black I ride on er Tail instead of er back Say my Joan , say my Joan what wilt thou do , I connote I connote come every every day to woe . I have a Choose upon the shelf ] In the Nook of a Chimney instead of a Bag. Say my Joan , say my Joan will not this do , I connote I connote come every every day to woe . To marry I would have thy consent But I faith I connote compliment , I connote court but heigh gee who [ Such as I lay at Cart or Blow , Say my Joan , say my Joan what wilt thou do I connote nounds I connote come every day to woe . Joan. What i'st my John that thou wouldst would A milkling I must and cannot stay , I'll hear mine Kine begin to mooe , And i'm must dabble in the due . Then say me John say me John what wouldst thou do ] Come shall we gang to yonder hedge To see if Margery be fledge , Or i'm tomorrow gang to kirk And i'll proved for thee a Sirk , Say my John say my John what wouldst thou do Since you connote , etc John. Udswbs i [ ' ] se like it wondrous well But thinkest thou that the hedge wont tell For if it should by these new shoone I'm in revenge would cut it down , Then say my Joan say my Joan wilt thou do I connote I connote , etc Joan. I'm under yond broad Oak will lie Upon mine back to see the Sky , But first you shall sear on my pail That you to morrow will not fail . Say my John say my John what wilt thou do Since you connote , etc John . Now we are come unto the place Let me my pretty big embrace , To morrow for the marriage day And then the Priest will bid us play . Say my Joan say my Joan shall I do I connote , etc Joan. But after this now we must part Which grieves poor Joan unto the heart , But till tomorrow we divide And then I'm shall be Johney's bride Say my John say my John when must we do Since you connote , etc [ John. I marry that thou and have all That thy Johney his own can call Farewell then till tomorrow day And then we'll freely sport and play Say my Joan say my Joan is not this true Seeing I connote I connote come ever every day to woe ] 