Cumberland Nelly . Or , The North Country Lovers . A youngman of very brisk behaviour , Most cunningly god into Nellys favour , And being he so well did please her mind , She was to him in all things wondrous kind , For at the length they made a match in sporting To gang to bed , and use no further courting . Tune of , The Lass that comes to bed to me . With Allowance . TO Here was a Lass in Cumberland , a bonny Lass of high degree : There was a Lass her name was Nell , the blithest Lass that ever you see : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed to me ; How blithe and bonny may she be , the Lass that comes to bed to me . Her Father loved her passing well , her brother likewise loved Nell : But all their loves came short of mine , as far as Tweed is from the Tine . Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed , etc She had five Dollars in a chest , and four of them she gave to me , She cut her Mother's Winding-sheet , and all to make a Sark for me . Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed , etc She pulled out of her Cabinet , a gay Gold Ring with Christials three ; She told me she was in my debt , and gave them kindly unto me . Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed to me : How blithe and bonny may she be , the Lass that comes to to bed me . S He left her father fast asleep , to come a while and sport with me , And may a time a watch would keep , lest any one our loves should see : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed to me ; How blithe and bonny may she be , the Lass that comes to bed to me . Oh! how it did delight my soul , to see her trip it over the plain My passion was without control , till she was in my Arms again : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , etc When I embraced her in my joy and said my Nelly now be kind , Although she seemed a little coy yet for to yield she was inclined : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , etc She had a pretty slender hand , as soft as any Silk could be , There's never a Lass in Cumberland that is so blithe and brisk as she : Oh! to bed to me , etc , Had I the richest Indian pearl , that ever came from beyond the Sea , I would bestowed on such a Girl , that is so loving and so free : Oh! to bed to me , etc At length I thought her mind to prove , lest she should take my meaning wrong , I said we vexed the god of Love , in staying from his Rites so long : Oh! to bed to me , etc Then down upon the Couch we sat , where I upon her lips did stray , At length my passion was so great , that from delight I could not stay : Oh! to bed to me , etc She made the bed both broad and wide , and with her hand she smoothed it down , She kissed me thrice and smiling said , my love I fear thou'lt sleep too soon : Oh! to bed to me , etc Just then I leapt into my Bed , and she was not long after me , I ventured for her Maiden head , because she came to bed to me : Oh! to bed to me , etc : The pleasure that we there did prove , you may imagine with the rest , But since it was done all in love , we'll let it pass for a true jest : Oh! to bed to me , to Bed to me , the Lass that came to bed to me ; Kind and loving sure was she , the Lass that came to bed to me . Printed for J. Coniers at the Black Raven in Duck Lane , Cumberland Nelly . Or , The North Country Lovers . A youngman of very brisk behaviour , Most cunningly god into Nellys favour , And being he so well did please her mind , She was to him in all things wondrous kind , For at the length they made a match in sporting To gang to bed , and use no further courting . Tune of , The Lass that comes to bed to me . With Allowance . TO Here was a Lass in Cumberland , a bonny Lass of high degree : There was a Lass her name was Nell , the blithest Lass that ever you see : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed to me ; How blithe and bonny may she be , the Lass that comes to bed to me . Her Father loved her passing well , her brother likewise loved Nell : But all their loves came short of mine , as far as Tweed is from the Tine . Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed , etc She had five Dollars in a chest , and four of them she gave to me , She cut her Mother's Winding-sheet , and all to make a Sark for me . Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed , etc She pulled out of her Cabinet , a gay Gold Ring with Christials three ; She told me she was in my debt , and gave them kindly unto me . Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed to me : How blithe and bonny may she be , the Lass that comes to to bed me . S He left her father fast asleep , to come a while and sport with me , And may a time a watch would keep , lest any one our loves should see : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lass that comes to bed to me ; How blithe and bonny may she be , the Lass that comes to bed to me . Oh! how it did delight my soul , to see her trip it over the plain My passion was without control , till she was in my Arms again : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , etc When I embraced her in my joy and said my Nelly now be kind , Although she seemed a little coy yet for to yield she was inclined : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , etc She had a pretty slender hand , as soft as any Silk could be , There's never a Lass in Cumberland that is so blithe and brisk as she : Oh! to bed to me , etc , Had I the richest Indian pearl , that ever came from beyond the Sea , I would bestowed on such a Girl , that is so loving and so free : Oh! to bed to me , etc At length I thought her mind to prove , lest she should take my meaning wrong , I said we vexed the god of Love , in staying from his Rites so long : Oh! to bed to me , etc Then down upon the Couch we sat , where I upon her lips did stray , At length my passion was so great , that from delight I could not stay : Oh! to bed to me , etc She made the bed both broad and wide , and with her hand she smoothed it down , She kissed me thrice and smiling said , my love I fear thou'lt sleep too soon : Oh! to bed to me , etc Just then I leapt into my Bed , and she was not long after me , I ventured for her Maiden head , because she came to bed to me : Oh! to bed to me , etc : The pleasure that we there did prove , you may imagine with the rest , But since it was done all in love , we'll let it pass for a true jest : Oh! to bed to me , to Bed to me , the Lass that came to bed to me ; Kind and loving sure was she , the Lass that came to bed to me . Printed for J. Coniers at the Black Raven in Duck Lane , 