The Bashful Virgin : Or , The Secret Lover . Cupid hath wounded her unto the heart , Which makes her feel a Love tormenting smart , Yet she ( poor heart ) is loath for to discover Her real grief unto her dearest Lover . At length she courage takes , and does reveal What she long time intended to conceal . Tune of , I am so deep in Love : Or , Little Boy , etc O What a pain it is to be a Lover , Being denied the bliss for to discover ? B lined Cupid with his Dart hath wrought my anguish , Y et dare I not impart for whom I languish . I feed a flame within which so torments me , That it both pains my heart and yet contents me , I t's such a pleasing smart and I so love it , That I had rather die than once remove it . But he for whom I grieve shall never know it ; My tongue shall never descry nor my eyes show it : Not a sighs nor a Tear , my grief discloses , But they fallen silently like due on Roses . But to prevent my Love for being cruel , My hearts the Sacrifice as it's the fuel , And while I suffer this to give him quiet , M y faith rewards my Love though he deny it . O N his eyes will I gaze and there delight me , While I conceal my flames no frowns can fright me , To be more happy I dare not aspire , Nor can I fallen more low , m ounting m over higher . But words they are but wind I cannot bear it , Perhaps he may be kind although I fear it , To him I must impart for whom I languish , Or love will break my heart with grief and anguish . Dear love regard my grief , do not prove cruel , Cupid hath played the Thief and stolen a Jewel : My heart it is the prize now in thy keeping , Wounded by thy fair eyes which caused m y weeping . M y modesty excuse , blame higher Powers . Though M aidens do not use for to turn Woers , Y et I had better speak truth to discover , Than that m y heart should break while Love I smother . With blushes on my cheek I do reveal it , That I do love thee dear isle not conceal it : Though Virgin-bashfulness now does restrain me , Regard my heaviness do not disdain me . Love hath consumed me so while I was silent , That I am worn with woe m y pain's so violent , Let pity m ove thy heart now to requite m e , And I will do m y part for to delight thee . With charms of Love m y dear I will endeavour , Thy heart all times to cheer both now and ever No harms shall thee annoy while I embrace thee , I f thou wilt be my joy isle never disgrace thee . Therefore consider sweet how I invite thee ; Let our affections m eet , do not thou slight m e : Answer m e lovingly to m y desire , Lest I with sowrrow die in Cupids fire . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Bashful Virgin : Or , The Secret Lover . Cupid hath wounded her unto the heart , Which makes her feel a Love tormenting smart , Yet she ( poor heart ) is loath for to discover Her real grief unto her dearest Lover . At length she courage takes , and does reveal What she long time intended to conceal . Tune of , I am so deep in Love : Or , Little Boy , etc O What a pain it is to be a Lover , Being denied the bliss for to discover ? B lined Cupid with his Dart hath wrought my anguish , Y et dare I not impart for whom I languish . I feed a flame within which so torments me , That it both pains my heart and yet contents me , I t's such a pleasing smart and I so love it , That I had rather die than once remove it . But he for whom I grieve shall never know it ; My tongue shall never descry nor my eyes show it : Not a sighs nor a Tear , my grief discloses , But they fallen silently like due on Roses . But to prevent my Love for being cruel , My hearts the Sacrifice as it's the fuel , And while I suffer this to give him quiet , M y faith rewards my Love though he deny it . O N his eyes will I gaze and there delight me , While I conceal my flames no frowns can fright me , To be more happy I dare not aspire , Nor can I fallen more low , m ounting m over higher . But words they are but wind I cannot bear it , Perhaps he may be kind although I fear it , To him I must impart for whom I languish , Or love will break my heart with grief and anguish . Dear love regard my grief , do not prove cruel , Cupid hath played the Thief and stolen a Jewel : My heart it is the prize now in thy keeping , Wounded by thy fair eyes which caused m y weeping . M y modesty excuse , blame higher Powers . Though M aidens do not use for to turn Woers , Y et I had better speak truth to discover , Than that m y heart should break while Love I smother . With blushes on my cheek I do reveal it , That I do love thee dear isle not conceal it : Though Virgin-bashfulness now does restrain me , Regard my heaviness do not disdain me . Love hath consumed me so while I was silent , That I am worn with woe m y pain's so violent , Let pity m ove thy heart now to requite m e , And I will do m y part for to delight thee . With charms of Love m y dear I will endeavour , Thy heart all times to cheer both now and ever No harms shall thee annoy while I embrace thee , I f thou wilt be my joy isle never disgrace thee . Therefore consider sweet how I invite thee ; Let our affections m eet , do not thou slight m e : Answer m e lovingly to m y desire , Lest I with sowrrow die in Cupids fire . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 