The Virgin Raze ; Or , York-shires Glory . Being and Account of a Raze lately Run at Temple-Newsham-Green ; None being admitted to run , but such as were sup - posed Virgins . The first that came to the two Miles Raze end , was to have a S ilver spoon , the second , a silver bodkin , the third a Silver Thimble , and the fourth Nothing at all . Tune is a New Game at Cards . Y Ou that do desire to hear , Of a Virgin Raze run in York-Shire , Come and Listen , I'll declare , Such News before you never did hear ; For I think since the World begun , But seldom Virgins Races Run . Four Virgins that supposed were , A Raze did run I now declare , Sure such a Raze was never seen , As this at Temple-Newsham-Green : In half-shirts & amp ; Drawers these Maids did run , But Bonny Nan the Raze has wone . A Silver Spoon this Nan obtained , The next a Silver Bodkin gained ; The third that was not quite so nimble , Was to have a Silver Thimble : And she that was the last of all , Nothing unto her share did fallen . In Drawers Read Ann Clayton run , And she it was the Raze that wone ; Pegg Hall as I may tell to you , Did run in Drawers that were Blew ; Honest Alice Hall that was the third , Her Drawers were white upon my word , A Concourse great of People were , For to behold these Virgins there , Who so well acted the men part , And love a Man with all their heart ; But what means this , for well we know , Maids through the Nation all do so . Now let us come to bonny Nan , Who wone a Raze once of a man , In Bassing-Hall-Street he did dwell , His Name was Lycia it's known full well : And let me now declare to you , at something else she'l beatrice him too . Let none the Yorkshire Girls despise , Who are so Active now a days , So brisk and nimble they do grow , That few can match them I do know : Then let us stand up for Yorkshire , Those Country Girls I love most dear : A Yorkshire Girl who can outvie , No City Girls can them come nigh , They've Rosey Blushes in their Cheeks ; While City Girls are Green as Leeks ; This with my fancy will agree , A Yorkshire Girl shall be for me . Then here's a Health to a Yorkshire Girl , For in mine eye she is a Pearl , Whose Beauty does so charm mine eye , That for her I would freely die : Her virtues do her face adorn , And makes her look fresh as the Morn . Now to conclude unto my friend , These Lines I freely Recommend ; Advising him above the rest , To Love a Yorkshire Girl the best ; But let him use his skill for I , Will love a Yorkshire Girl until I die FINI S Printed for , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , T. Passenger . The Virgin Raze ; Or , York-shires Glory . Being and Account of a Raze lately Run at Temple-Newsham-Green ; None being admitted to run , but such as were sup - posed Virgins . The first that came to the two Miles Raze end , was to have a S ilver spoon , the second , a silver bodkin , the third a Silver Thimble , and the fourth Nothing at all . Tune is a New Game at Cards . Y Ou that do desire to hear , Of a Virgin Raze run in York-Shire , Come and Listen , I'll declare , Such News before you never did hear ; For I think since the World begun , But seldom Virgins Races Run . Four Virgins that supposed were , A Raze did run I now declare , Sure such a Raze was never seen , As this at Temple-Newsham-Green : In half-shirts & amp ; Drawers these Maids did run , But Bonny Nan the Raze has wone . A Silver Spoon this Nan obtained , The next a Silver Bodkin gained ; The third that was not quite so nimble , Was to have a Silver Thimble : And she that was the last of all , Nothing unto her share did fallen . In Drawers Read Ann Clayton run , And she it was the Raze that wone ; Pegg Hall as I may tell to you , Did run in Drawers that were Blew ; Honest Alice Hall that was the third , Her Drawers were white upon my word , A Concourse great of People were , For to behold these Virgins there , Who so well acted the men part , And love a Man with all their heart ; But what means this , for well we know , Maids through the Nation all do so . Now let us come to bonny Nan , Who wone a Raze once of a man , In Bassing-Hall-Street he did dwell , His Name was Lycia it's known full well : And let me now declare to you , at something else she'l beatrice him too . Let none the Yorkshire Girls despise , Who are so Active now a days , So brisk and nimble they do grow , That few can match them I do know : Then let us stand up for Yorkshire , Those Country Girls I love most dear : A Yorkshire Girl who can outvie , No City Girls can them come nigh , They've Rosey Blushes in their Cheeks ; While City Girls are Green as Leeks ; This with my fancy will agree , A Yorkshire Girl shall be for me . Then here's a Health to a Yorkshire Girl , For in mine eye she is a Pearl , Whose Beauty does so charm mine eye , That for her I would freely die : Her virtues do her face adorn , And makes her look fresh as the Morn . Now to conclude unto my friend , These Lines I freely Recommend ; Advising him above the rest , To Love a Yorkshire Girl the best ; But let him use his skill for I , Will love a Yorkshire Girl until I die FINI S Printed for , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , T. Passenger . 