Love in a MAZE : OR The Youngman put to his Dumps . Here in this Song you may behold and see A gallant Girl obtained by Wit and Honesty ; All you that hear my Song , and mark it but aright , Will say true love's worth gold , and breeds delight . To a pleasant New Tune , called , The true Lovers delight ; Or , The Cambridge Horn . L Ate in the morning as I abroad was walking , All in a Meadow green , I herd two Lovers talking ; With kisses sweet the youngman her Saluted , Then I drew near to hear what they disputed : Then I drew near to hear what they disputed . Youngman . Fair Maid , quoth he , this merry morning , Present one smile to me , and be no longer scorning ; Him who hath vowed to be thine own for ever , Oh say but to me , Our Loves shall never sever : Oh say but to me , etc Maid Indeed Sir , quoth she , it is a misty morning , But I would have you to know I always hated scorning , And as for love , as yet I mean to smother , I know not one as yet I love better than another . I know not one , etc Youngman . True love , sweetheart , quod he , if ever you chance to know it , It cannot smothered be , but at last you'll show it ; The first time I beheld thy sweet and comely carriage , I ever since desired that we were joined in marriage : I ever since desired , etc Maid . [ L ] ove Sir , quoth she , is like a Fishers Angle , Which oft hath golden hairs silly Maidens to entangle , [ And ] cunningly cast out by young men's false inventions , Then marriage they'll pretend where it's not their intentions , Then marriage they'll pretend , etc Youngman . [ O ] it's so , my Dear , true love is like a fountain That casts out water clear out of a Rocky Mountain , Whose stream for to stop you'll say it is a wonder , Likewise it's as strange to cleave the Rocks in sunder : Likewise it's as strange to cleave the Rocks in sunder . Such is my love to thee , and shall be ever , No unconstant thoughts or fickle mind can sever My heart from thee , which always shall be bringing Foutnatins clear & amp ; fresh , that from true love is springing , Fountains clear and fresh , etc Maid . Your comparison , said she , I must confess is witty , To stay the stream of Love it were a pity ; But your heart you compare indeed to rocky mountains , For stony oft they are , and cast out several fountains . For stony oft they are , etc As from some fountain several Streams are running , So many feigned loves you oft have by your cunning ; It's hard to pierce your flinty heart asunder , And stop you fickle streams , it is a wonder : And stop your , etc Youngman . Fie , fie , Sweetheart , your wit does overmatch me , No words I can impart but presently you catch me : You Maidens now each day do grow so coy and witty , Let youngmen beg & amp ; pray you'll take of them not pity . Let young men beg , etc Maid . Fie , away for shame , you youngmen can dissemble , Your wits are ripe , your tongues are quick and nimble , Indeed you'll beg & amp ; pray sometime to get your pleasure , Then leave us in the lurch , & amp ; we may repent at leisure : then leave us in the lurch , etc Youngman . Confessed it is , there's many are so minded , Bue if thou wouldst prove my Constancy , thou'lt find it , Do thou but command through danger I will enter , And for to gain they love , through and army I would venture : And for to gain they love , etc S Weet-heart i'd have you know I never could dissemble , And my compliments are slow , my tongue was never nimble ; It's none but loyal love makes me come unto thee , It is not for thy wealth but virtue that I love thee . it is not for thy wealth but virtue that I love thee . W ith that a Bush of May this lovely Maid espied , Near to a bank of Time , whereto she quickly hied , Down she plucked the May that was so green and tender , And up she plucked the time with her pretty Arms so slender : and up she plucked , etc She stuck the bush of May in Time , and did present it Unto this Youngman , which was soon discontented ; Here , Sir , quoth she , if that you will be eased , Read but the Riddle , Sir , perhaps you may be pleased . Read but , etc Young man . He took it from her hand and received it as a token , Then in a dump did stand , & amp ; never a word was spoken ; Blushing , then at last he modestly replied , Your Riddle I can read , Love , and shall not be denied , Your Riddle , etc This May stuck in Time , which is to me presenting , Shows that I may in time gain your love & amp ; not contenting Which if I may , I'll stay your time and leisure , No time I'll think too long , so at last I gain the treasure , no time , etc He took her by the hand and lovingly they walked , But tied in Cupids hands most amorously they talked , Then on each other smiled with interchanging kisses , Oh it's pity time beguiled such Lovers of their blisses . O it's pity , etc Perhaps , sweet Sir , you by this Riddle reading , May think you gained me by little or no persuading , Which if you did , it is yet at my pleasure , I am not bound to you yet , but you must stay my leisure . I am not , etc Then let this heart within this breast lies panting , No happiness ever see , but let joys be ever wanting ; If ever I think and Evil thought upon thee , Let mirth be banished quite , and sorrow wait upon me . let mirth , etc If it be so , quoth she , thou bearest such true affection , Hereafter I'll agree to be ruled by thy direction ; No friend shall sever or break our loves asunder , For loyal loving hearts will be the world's wonder . for loyal , etc The Time that late was mine to thee shall be presented , All that I have is thine , then rest thy self contented ; Thy Gallant wit , thy Modesty and Carriage , Hath wone my heart , we will be joined in marriage . hath wone , etc Youngman . He took her at her word , and modestly replied , Short time I will afford , long time shall be denied ; This being the first of May , our hearts being [ joined ] and wedded Before the fifth day in wedlock we'll be bedded . before , etc Nine hundred pound with this maiden he obtained , On marriage day was paid , which by his wit he gained ; Although no means he had , she never a whit repented , He was a gallant Lad , and she was well contented . he was , etc Now all you pretty Maids that live in Town or City , The Author you persuades to learn from this his ditty , If a young man you love , look not then for his treasure , For if he honest prove in him is wealth and pleasure : for if , etc You Youngmen I'll persuade to hear my motion , For if you affect a maid , regard not then her portion : Hang ten pounds , give me the Lass that loves me , If a good wife thou'st found , no Joy on Earth's above thee . if a good , etc Youngmen and maids that lately went a Maying , Mark the Nightingale , one tune he's always playing , Jug , jug , jug , sweet , is all the note she sings , As when loyal Lovers meet , no double tongues they brings as when , etc All you pretty Maids that are civil in your carriage , This Song is sent to you to be wary in your marriage : Try before you trust , be careful in consenting , That when the knot is tied , there may be no repenting , that when the knot is tied , there may be no repenting . FINIS Printed by and for Alex Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green Arbor-Court , in the Little Old-Baily . Love in a MAZE : OR The Youngman put to his Dumps . Here in this Song you may behold and see A gallant Girl obtained by Wit and Honesty ; All you that hear my Song , and mark it but aright , Will say true love's worth gold , and breeds delight . To a pleasant New Tune , called , The true Lovers delight ; Or , The Cambridge Horn . L Ate in the morning as I abroad was walking , All in a Meadow green , I herd two Lovers talking ; With kisses sweet the youngman her Saluted , Then I drew near to hear what they disputed : Then I drew near to hear what they disputed . Youngman . Fair Maid , quoth he , this merry morning , Present one smile to me , and be no longer scorning ; Him who hath vowed to be thine own for ever , Oh say but to me , Our Loves shall never sever : Oh say but to me , etc Maid Indeed Sir , quoth she , it is a misty morning , But I would have you to know I always hated scorning , And as for love , as yet I mean to smother , I know not one as yet I love better than another . I know not one , etc Youngman . True love , sweetheart , quod he , if ever you chance to know it , It cannot smothered be , but at last you'll show it ; The first time I beheld thy sweet and comely carriage , I ever since desired that we were joined in marriage : I ever since desired , etc Maid . [ L ] ove Sir , quoth she , is like a Fishers Angle , Which oft hath golden hairs silly Maidens to entangle , [ And ] cunningly cast out by young men's false inventions , Then marriage they'll pretend where it's not their intentions , Then marriage they'll pretend , etc Youngman . [ O ] it's so , my Dear , true love is like a fountain That casts out water clear out of a Rocky Mountain , Whose stream for to stop you'll say it is a wonder , Likewise it's as strange to cleave the Rocks in sunder : Likewise it's as strange to cleave the Rocks in sunder . Such is my love to thee , and shall be ever , No unconstant thoughts or fickle mind can sever My heart from thee , which always shall be bringing Foutnatins clear & amp ; fresh , that from true love is springing , Fountains clear and fresh , etc Maid . Your comparison , said she , I must confess is witty , To stay the stream of Love it were a pity ; But your heart you compare indeed to rocky mountains , For stony oft they are , and cast out several fountains . For stony oft they are , etc As from some fountain several Streams are running , So many feigned loves you oft have by your cunning ; It's hard to pierce your flinty heart asunder , And stop you fickle streams , it is a wonder : And stop your , etc Youngman . Fie , fie , Sweetheart , your wit does overmatch me , No words I can impart but presently you catch me : You Maidens now each day do grow so coy and witty , Let youngmen beg & amp ; pray you'll take of them not pity . Let young men beg , etc Maid . Fie , away for shame , you youngmen can dissemble , Your wits are ripe , your tongues are quick and nimble , Indeed you'll beg & amp ; pray sometime to get your pleasure , Then leave us in the lurch , & amp ; we may repent at leisure : then leave us in the lurch , etc Youngman . Confessed it is , there's many are so minded , Bue if thou wouldst prove my Constancy , thou'lt find it , Do thou but command through danger I will enter , And for to gain they love , through and army I would venture : And for to gain they love , etc S Weet-heart i'd have you know I never could dissemble , And my compliments are slow , my tongue was never nimble ; It's none but loyal love makes me come unto thee , It is not for thy wealth but virtue that I love thee . it is not for thy wealth but virtue that I love thee . W ith that a Bush of May this lovely Maid espied , Near to a bank of Time , whereto she quickly hied , Down she plucked the May that was so green and tender , And up she plucked the time with her pretty Arms so slender : and up she plucked , etc She stuck the bush of May in Time , and did present it Unto this Youngman , which was soon discontented ; Here , Sir , quoth she , if that you will be eased , Read but the Riddle , Sir , perhaps you may be pleased . Read but , etc Young man . He took it from her hand and received it as a token , Then in a dump did stand , & amp ; never a word was spoken ; Blushing , then at last he modestly replied , Your Riddle I can read , Love , and shall not be denied , Your Riddle , etc This May stuck in Time , which is to me presenting , Shows that I may in time gain your love & amp ; not contenting Which if I may , I'll stay your time and leisure , No time I'll think too long , so at last I gain the treasure , no time , etc He took her by the hand and lovingly they walked , But tied in Cupids hands most amorously they talked , Then on each other smiled with interchanging kisses , Oh it's pity time beguiled such Lovers of their blisses . O it's pity , etc Perhaps , sweet Sir , you by this Riddle reading , May think you gained me by little or no persuading , Which if you did , it is yet at my pleasure , I am not bound to you yet , but you must stay my leisure . I am not , etc Then let this heart within this breast lies panting , No happiness ever see , but let joys be ever wanting ; If ever I think and Evil thought upon thee , Let mirth be banished quite , and sorrow wait upon me . let mirth , etc If it be so , quoth she , thou bearest such true affection , Hereafter I'll agree to be ruled by thy direction ; No friend shall sever or break our loves asunder , For loyal loving hearts will be the world's wonder . for loyal , etc The Time that late was mine to thee shall be presented , All that I have is thine , then rest thy self contented ; Thy Gallant wit , thy Modesty and Carriage , Hath wone my heart , we will be joined in marriage . hath wone , etc Youngman . He took her at her word , and modestly replied , Short time I will afford , long time shall be denied ; This being the first of May , our hearts being [ joined ] and wedded Before the fifth day in wedlock we'll be bedded . before , etc Nine hundred pound with this maiden he obtained , On marriage day was paid , which by his wit he gained ; Although no means he had , she never a whit repented , He was a gallant Lad , and she was well contented . he was , etc Now all you pretty Maids that live in Town or City , The Author you persuades to learn from this his ditty , If a young man you love , look not then for his treasure , For if he honest prove in him is wealth and pleasure : for if , etc You Youngmen I'll persuade to hear my motion , For if you affect a maid , regard not then her portion : Hang ten pounds , give me the Lass that loves me , If a good wife thou'st found , no Joy on Earth's above thee . if a good , etc Youngmen and maids that lately went a Maying , Mark the Nightingale , one tune he's always playing , Jug , jug , jug , sweet , is all the note she sings , As when loyal Lovers meet , no double tongues they brings as when , etc All you pretty Maids that are civil in your carriage , This Song is sent to you to be wary in your marriage : Try before you trust , be careful in consenting , That when the knot is tied , there may be no repenting , that when the knot is tied , there may be no repenting . FINIS Printed by and for Alex Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green Arbor-Court , in the Little Old-Baily . 