THE Trappaned Welsh-man , Sold to Virginia . Showing how a Welsh man came to London , and went to see the Royal Exchange , where he met a Handsome Lass , with whom he was Enamoured ; who pretending to show him the Ships , carried him a board a Virginia Man and Sold him , having first god the Welsh-mans Gold , to his great grief and sorrow . To the Tune of , Monsieurs Misfortune . This may be Printed , R. P. N Ot long ago hur came to L ondon , some pretty Fashions for to see , Sure hur were mad so to be undone , in middle of hur Bravery : Hur knew hur god much Wit as any , when hur arrived here from Wales , Cots-plot , hur knew Deceivers many , hur now be sure must tell no Tales . Hur came to see the Exchange so neatly , and wor no Shangling you may think , But hur wor served a trick completely , in time that any man can wink : But wor not this and unlucky Baggage , a harmless Welsh-man to trappan ? She's told hur ' twor and ancient Adage , Shack wor not born a Gentleman . But hur had now a Shet put on hur , as he did view the Rarities , A scurvy trick was put upon hur , by one wor favoured in hur eyes : Plutter-a-nails , could hur get home Sir hur never would have a mind to range , would hang byth' neck before hur rome sir to London Town to see the Shange . Looking about on every matter , he could not choose but all commend , He never saw things of such nature , and thus he did his Verdict spend : Could hur bring over hur Habitation , hur Pigsty , Barn , and hur don Cow Hur here would live so in the fashion , like any Gentleman I vow . By him there stood a Lass so pretty she was the Rarirty of all , Most wondrous handsome , fine and witty , she to the Welsh-man then did call : Sir , I perceive you're not so knowing , of this so sumptuous place , as I , Here are , kind sir , things worth the showing , if you'll accept my Courtesy . He's very glad of that kind proffer , and close unto her side did stick , He herd a pretty Story of her , of those that do Men's Pockets pick : Plutter-a-nails , hur give they no money , hur put a breakment on their Pate , Quod she , thou canst not knowed , my honey be ruled by me , they never shall have't . She told a Tale of Ships on the Ocean , which the fine Welshman might behold Who now was quite at her Devotion , he gave her thirty pound in Gold , For to lay up till they returned , which she did never mean he should , She played a prank whereat he mourned , because he was so greatly Fooled . For when they came ' board the Virginny a Ship most gay and fit for Trade , There she did fell the harmless Ninny , to make her Market ( like a Jade : ) They called for Punch and other Liquour which made the Welshman almost blind But to conclude , she was the quicker , and left the Welsh-man there behind . prey good her Worship , take hur with hur the Captain said he was too bold , What , must hur go hur knows not whither and to be sheated of hur Gold ? Let hur but send hur Gold unto hur , but he could then no favour find , What , does hur mean for to undo hur ? ' splut , by St. Taffie , ' twor unkind . God bless hur anshent Dad and Mother , for hur must go hur knows not where , Give sharge unto hur little Brother , lest he unto this place repair : God send hur never may come to London , nor never have a mind to Range , For hur wor sure hur will be undone , if ever hur comes unto the Shange . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers - A rms within Aldgate . THE Trappaned Welsh-man , Sold to Virginia . Showing how a Welsh man came to London , and went to see the Royal Exchange , where he met a Handsome Lass , with whom he was Enamoured ; who pretending to show him the Ships , carried him a board a Virginia Man and Sold him , having first god the Welsh-mans Gold , to his great grief and sorrow . To the Tune of , Monsieurs Misfortune . This may be Printed , R. P. N Ot long ago hur came to L ondon , some pretty Fashions for to see , Sure hur were mad so to be undone , in middle of hur Bravery : Hur knew hur god much Wit as any , when hur arrived here from Wales , Cots-plot , hur knew Deceivers many , hur now be sure must tell no Tales . Hur came to see the Exchange so neatly , and wor no Shangling you may think , But hur wor served a trick completely , in time that any man can wink : But wor not this and unlucky Baggage , a harmless Welsh-man to trappan ? She's told hur ' twor and ancient Adage , Shack wor not born a Gentleman . But hur had now a Shet put on hur , as he did view the Rarities , A scurvy trick was put upon hur , by one wor favoured in hur eyes : Plutter-a-nails , could hur get home Sir hur never would have a mind to range , would hang byth' neck before hur rome sir to London Town to see the Shange . Looking about on every matter , he could not choose but all commend , He never saw things of such nature , and thus he did his Verdict spend : Could hur bring over hur Habitation , hur Pigsty , Barn , and hur don Cow Hur here would live so in the fashion , like any Gentleman I vow . By him there stood a Lass so pretty she was the Rarirty of all , Most wondrous handsome , fine and witty , she to the Welsh-man then did call : Sir , I perceive you're not so knowing , of this so sumptuous place , as I , Here are , kind sir , things worth the showing , if you'll accept my Courtesy . He's very glad of that kind proffer , and close unto her side did stick , He herd a pretty Story of her , of those that do Men's Pockets pick : Plutter-a-nails , hur give they no money , hur put a breakment on their Pate , Quod she , thou canst not knowed , my honey be ruled by me , they never shall have't . She told a Tale of Ships on the Ocean , which the fine Welshman might behold Who now was quite at her Devotion , he gave her thirty pound in Gold , For to lay up till they returned , which she did never mean he should , She played a prank whereat he mourned , because he was so greatly Fooled . For when they came ' board the Virginny a Ship most gay and fit for Trade , There she did fell the harmless Ninny , to make her Market ( like a Jade : ) They called for Punch and other Liquour which made the Welshman almost blind But to conclude , she was the quicker , and left the Welsh-man there behind . prey good her Worship , take hur with hur the Captain said he was too bold , What , must hur go hur knows not whither and to be sheated of hur Gold ? Let hur but send hur Gold unto hur , but he could then no favour find , What , does hur mean for to undo hur ? ' splut , by St. Taffie , ' twor unkind . God bless hur anshent Dad and Mother , for hur must go hur knows not where , Give sharge unto hur little Brother , lest he unto this place repair : God send hur never may come to London , nor never have a mind to Range , For hur wor sure hur will be undone , if ever hur comes unto the Shange . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers - A rms within Aldgate . 