A Pleasant Song made by a Soldier , whose bringing up had been dainty , and partly by those affections of his unbridled youth , is now beaten with his own Rod : and therefore termeth this his Repentance , or the fallen of Folly . To and Excellent new [ TO ] une , called , Culino . I N Summer time when Phoebus raise , did cheer each mortal men delights , Increasing of the cheerful days , and cutting off the darksome nights . When nature brought forth every thing , by just return of April showers To make the pleasant branches spring , with sundry sorts of herbs and flowers . It was my chance to walk abroad , to view Dame Nature's new come brood The pretty Birds did lay on load , with sugared tunes in every wood . The gallant nightingale did set her speckled breast against a Bryer , Whose mourful tunes bewail ( as yet ) her Brother Thecis false desire . The Serpents having cast their coats , lay listening how the birds did sing , The pretty Birds with sugared ntoes , did welcome in the pleasant Spring . I drew me to the Greenwood side , to hear this Country Harmony ; Whereas ever long I had espied a woeful man in misery . He lay along upon the ground , and to the Heavens he cast his eye , The bordering hills and dales resound , the echos of his piteous cry . He wailing soar , and sighing said , Oh heavens what endless grief have I , Why are my sorrows thus delayed , come therefore death and let me die . When nature first had made my frame , and set me loose when she had done , Steps Fortune in that fickle Dame , to end what nature had begun . She set my foot upon her knee , and blessed my tender age with store , But in the end she did agree , to mar what she had made before : I could no sooner creep alone , but she forsook her fostered child , I had no Lands to live upon , but traced abroad the world so wild . At length I fell in company , with gallant youths of Mars his train , I spent my life in jeoperdy , and god my labour for my pain . I watched on the sieged walls , in thunder , lighting , rain , and snow , And oft being shot with powdered balls , whose costly marks are yet to show . When all my kindred took their rest at home in many a stately bed , the ground and pavement was my nest , my Flask a pillow for my head . My meat was such as I could get , of roots and herbs of sundry sorts , Which did content my hungry mind , although my commons were but short . My powder served to salt my meat , my murrion for a guilded Cup , Whereas such drink as I could get in Spring or Ditch I drank it up . My Rapier always by my side my piece lay charged with match & amp ; light That many a month I did abide , to ward all day and watch by night . I lived in this glorious vain , until my Limbs grew stiff and lame ; And thus I god me home again , regarding no such costly fame . When I came home I made a proof , what friends would do if need should be My nearest Kinsfolks looked aloof , as though they had forgotten me . And as the Owl by chattering charms , is wondered at of other Birds , So they came wondering at my harms , and yield me no relief but words . Thus do I want while they have store , that am their equal every way , Though fortune lent them somewhat more else had I been as good as they . Come gently Death and end my grief you pretty Birds ring forth my knell , Let Robin Redbreast be the chief , to bury me and so farewell . Let no good Soldier be dismayed , to fight in field with courage bold , Yet mark the words that I have said , trust not to friends when thou art old . The Soldiers Farewell to his love . Being a Dialogue betwixt Thomas and Margaret . To a pleasant new Tune . Thomas . M argaret my sweetest , Margaret I must go , Margaret . Most dear to me , that never may be so : T. Ah , Fortune wills it , I cannot it deny , M. then know my love your Margaret must die . T. Not for the gold my Love that Croesus had , Would I once see thy sweetest looks so sad , M. Nor for all that the which my eye did see , Would I depart my sweetest Love from thee . T. The King commands , & amp ; I must to the wars M. Ther's others more enough may end that jars T. But I for one commanded am to go , And for my life I dare not once say no . M. Ah marry me , and you shall stay at home , Full thirty weeks you know that I have gone , T. There's time enough another for to take He'l love thee well , and not thy child forsake . M. And have I doted on thy sweetest face ? and dost infringe that which thou suedst in chase Thy faith I mean but I will weened with thee , T. It is too far for Peg to go with me . M. I'll go with thee my Love both night and day I'll bear thy sword , i'll run and led the way . T. But we must ride , how will you follow then , among a Troop of us thats Armed men ? M. I'll bear the Lance , i'll guide thy stirrup too , I'll rub the horse , and more then that isle do , T. But Margarets fingers they are all too fine , To wait on me when she does see me dine . Margaret . I'll see you dine , isle wait still at your back , I'll give you wine , or any thing you lack . Thomas . But you I repine when you shall see me have A dainty wench that is both fine and brave . M. I le love your wench my sweetest , I do vow , I ' le watch time when she may pleasure you . T. But you will grieve to see my sleep in bed , And you must wait still in another's stead . M. I ' le watch my love to see you sleep in rest , And when you sleep then I shall think me blessed . T. The time will come you must delivered be , I f in the Camp it will discredit me . M. I le go from you before the time shall be , When all is well my love again isle see . T. All will not serve for Margaret must not go , Then do resolve my Love , what else to do . M. I f nought will serve why then sweet love adieu I needs must die , and yet in dying true . T. Nay stay my love , for I love Margaret well , And here I vow with Margaret to dwell . M. Give me your hand , your Margaret livs again T. Here is my hand , isle never breed thy pain . M. I ' le kiss my Love in token it is so . T. We will be wed , come Margaret let us go . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . A Pleasant Song made by a Soldier , whose bringing up had been dainty , and partly by those affections of his unbridled youth , is now beaten with his own Rod : and therefore termeth this his Repentance , or the fallen of Folly . To and Excellent new [ TO ] une , called , Culino . I N Summer time when Phoebus raise , did cheer each mortal men delights , Increasing of the cheerful days , and cutting off the darksome nights . When nature brought forth every thing , by just return of April showers To make the pleasant branches spring , with sundry sorts of herbs and flowers . It was my chance to walk abroad , to view Dame Nature's new come brood The pretty Birds did lay on load , with sugared tunes in every wood . The gallant nightingale did set her speckled breast against a Bryer , Whose mourful tunes bewail ( as yet ) her Brother Thecis false desire . The Serpents having cast their coats , lay listening how the birds did sing , The pretty Birds with sugared ntoes , did welcome in the pleasant Spring . I drew me to the Greenwood side , to hear this Country Harmony ; Whereas ever long I had espied a woeful man in misery . He lay along upon the ground , and to the Heavens he cast his eye , The bordering hills and dales resound , the echos of his piteous cry . He wailing soar , and sighing said , Oh heavens what endless grief have I , Why are my sorrows thus delayed , come therefore death and let me die . When nature first had made my frame , and set me loose when she had done , Steps Fortune in that fickle Dame , to end what nature had begun . She set my foot upon her knee , and blessed my tender age with store , But in the end she did agree , to mar what she had made before : I could no sooner creep alone , but she forsook her fostered child , I had no Lands to live upon , but traced abroad the world so wild . At length I fell in company , with gallant youths of Mars his train , I spent my life in jeoperdy , and god my labour for my pain . I watched on the sieged walls , in thunder , lighting , rain , and snow , And oft being shot with powdered balls , whose costly marks are yet to show . When all my kindred took their rest at home in many a stately bed , the ground and pavement was my nest , my Flask a pillow for my head . My meat was such as I could get , of roots and herbs of sundry sorts , Which did content my hungry mind , although my commons were but short . My powder served to salt my meat , my murrion for a guilded Cup , Whereas such drink as I could get in Spring or Ditch I drank it up . My Rapier always by my side my piece lay charged with match & amp ; light That many a month I did abide , to ward all day and watch by night . I lived in this glorious vain , until my Limbs grew stiff and lame ; And thus I god me home again , regarding no such costly fame . When I came home I made a proof , what friends would do if need should be My nearest Kinsfolks looked aloof , as though they had forgotten me . And as the Owl by chattering charms , is wondered at of other Birds , So they came wondering at my harms , and yield me no relief but words . Thus do I want while they have store , that am their equal every way , Though fortune lent them somewhat more else had I been as good as they . Come gently Death and end my grief you pretty Birds ring forth my knell , Let Robin Redbreast be the chief , to bury me and so farewell . Let no good Soldier be dismayed , to fight in field with courage bold , Yet mark the words that I have said , trust not to friends when thou art old . The Soldiers Farewell to his love . Being a Dialogue betwixt Thomas and Margaret . To a pleasant new Tune . Thomas . M argaret my sweetest , Margaret I must go , Margaret . Most dear to me , that never may be so : T. Ah , Fortune wills it , I cannot it deny , M. then know my love your Margaret must die . T. Not for the gold my Love that Croesus had , Would I once see thy sweetest looks so sad , M. Nor for all that the which my eye did see , Would I depart my sweetest Love from thee . T. The King commands , & amp ; I must to the wars M. Ther's others more enough may end that jars T. But I for one commanded am to go , And for my life I dare not once say no . M. Ah marry me , and you shall stay at home , Full thirty weeks you know that I have gone , T. There's time enough another for to take He'l love thee well , and not thy child forsake . M. And have I doted on thy sweetest face ? and dost infringe that which thou suedst in chase Thy faith I mean but I will weened with thee , T. It is too far for Peg to go with me . M. I'll go with thee my Love both night and day I'll bear thy sword , i'll run and led the way . T. But we must ride , how will you follow then , among a Troop of us thats Armed men ? M. I'll bear the Lance , i'll guide thy stirrup too , I'll rub the horse , and more then that isle do , T. But Margarets fingers they are all too fine , To wait on me when she does see me dine . Margaret . I'll see you dine , isle wait still at your back , I'll give you wine , or any thing you lack . Thomas . But you I repine when you shall see me have A dainty wench that is both fine and brave . M. I le love your wench my sweetest , I do vow , I ' le watch time when she may pleasure you . T. But you will grieve to see my sleep in bed , And you must wait still in another's stead . M. I ' le watch my love to see you sleep in rest , And when you sleep then I shall think me blessed . T. The time will come you must delivered be , I f in the Camp it will discredit me . M. I le go from you before the time shall be , When all is well my love again isle see . T. All will not serve for Margaret must not go , Then do resolve my Love , what else to do . M. I f nought will serve why then sweet love adieu I needs must die , and yet in dying true . T. Nay stay my love , for I love Margaret well , And here I vow with Margaret to dwell . M. Give me your hand , your Margaret livs again T. Here is my hand , isle never breed thy pain . M. I ' le kiss my Love in token it is so . T. We will be wed , come Margaret let us go . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 