The Valiant Trooper and pretty Peggy : Being a pretty new Ditty , of a gallant brave Trooper , and Peggy so pretty . He oft did complain of her unconstancy , Yet afterwards she proved his loving Wife to be . To a pretty new Tune : Or , though I live not where I Love . H Eared you not of a valiant Trooper , that had his pockets well lined with gold He was in love with a gallant Lady , as I to you shall hear unfold ; With a kind salute and fierce dispute he thought to make her his only one , But unconstant woman , true to no man , is gone and left me her bird alone , Oh pretty Pegg dost thou remember , since thou and I together pass , And what I gave thee for a token , thou didst kindly take it as it was ; thou didst kindly take it , and not forsake it , and said it was thy only one : But unconstant woman true to no man , is gone and left me here alone . I tell thee Pegg I will remember , the vow and promise thou madest to me , When thou and I were in my chamber , thou much delighted in my company ; Why wilt thou change and from me range , thou knowest I am thy only one . Unconstant woman true to no man , why wilt thou leave me thy bird alone ? O do not think I take it kindly that thou shouldst leave me in disdain , Stealing away from me thus finely , and leave me in tormenting pain ; Yield me reilef , or else with grief my heart will burst my only one . O unconstant woman true to no man , why wilt thou leave me thy bird alone . The second Part , To the same Tune , Being pretty Pegs answer to her only one , And she vows never to leave her Bird alone . If Gold thou want I have great plenty , demand of me and thou shalt have , Or any thing thou thinkest dainty , what heart can think or tongue can crave , With heart and hand do but command , and i'll yield to thee my only one , Oh unconstant woman true to no man why wilt thou leave me thy bird alone ? M y pretty Pegg speak unto me , return to me with cheerful voice ; With coy disdain seek not to kill me , seeing of thee I have made my choice : With a kind reply do not deny to say thou art my only one . O unconstant woman true to no man why wilt thou leave me thy bird alone ? Pegs Answer . MY only joy be thou contented , and do not seem on me to frown , What I have done is not repented my only dear of high Renown ; I will not deny thee , for all I try thee ; it grieves my heart thou shouldst make moan Come take thy pleasure , at thy leisure my little pretty bird alone . The promise that I made unto thee , I scorn a word for to deny , And I vow my heart is true unto thee , and all other men I do defy ; Its not the Gold that thou hast told shall win my love thou pretty one ; I will not deny thy company , my little pretty bird alone . Thou dost complain that I did leave thee , and said it did thee soar torment , But what I did was for to try thee , and now I hope to give content ; Both night and day I will thee obey , and vow to be thy only one , A constanter woman never had no man , then I will be to my bird alone . Therefore sweet Willy be contented , despair not in thy love at all , Though I thy company have neglected , I now am willing at a call : If thou wilt me marry , then i'll not tarry , for I vow I am thy only one ; A constanter woman never had no man than I will be to my bird alone . My pretty Pegg then thou art welcome , I am the man that before I was , Though I thy company had but seldom yet now I hope it is come to pass : I shall thee enjoy without annoy , in marriage bed my only one ; I will constant prove , my turtle dove , to thee my pretty bird alone . You pretty M aidens in Town or City that Cupid does invite to love , Take pattern by this new made ditty , and to your sweethearts constant prove ; Be true and Loyal without denial , and truly love your only one ; A constant woman will prove false to no man nor leave her pretty bird alone . T.R. London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Valiant Trooper and pretty Peggy : Being a pretty new Ditty , of a gallant brave Trooper , and Peggy so pretty . He oft did complain of her unconstancy , Yet afterwards she proved his loving Wife to be . To a pretty new Tune : Or , though I live not where I Love . H Eared you not of a valiant Trooper , that had his pockets well lined with gold He was in love with a gallant Lady , as I to you shall hear unfold ; With a kind salute and fierce dispute he thought to make her his only one , But unconstant woman , true to no man , is gone and left me her bird alone , Oh pretty Pegg dost thou remember , since thou and I together pass , And what I gave thee for a token , thou didst kindly take it as it was ; thou didst kindly take it , and not forsake it , and said it was thy only one : But unconstant woman true to no man , is gone and left me here alone . I tell thee Pegg I will remember , the vow and promise thou madest to me , When thou and I were in my chamber , thou much delighted in my company ; Why wilt thou change and from me range , thou knowest I am thy only one . Unconstant woman true to no man , why wilt thou leave me thy bird alone ? O do not think I take it kindly that thou shouldst leave me in disdain , Stealing away from me thus finely , and leave me in tormenting pain ; Yield me reilef , or else with grief my heart will burst my only one . O unconstant woman true to no man , why wilt thou leave me thy bird alone . The second Part , To the same Tune , Being pretty Pegs answer to her only one , And she vows never to leave her Bird alone . If Gold thou want I have great plenty , demand of me and thou shalt have , Or any thing thou thinkest dainty , what heart can think or tongue can crave , With heart and hand do but command , and i'll yield to thee my only one , Oh unconstant woman true to no man why wilt thou leave me thy bird alone ? M y pretty Pegg speak unto me , return to me with cheerful voice ; With coy disdain seek not to kill me , seeing of thee I have made my choice : With a kind reply do not deny to say thou art my only one . O unconstant woman true to no man why wilt thou leave me thy bird alone ? Pegs Answer . MY only joy be thou contented , and do not seem on me to frown , What I have done is not repented my only dear of high Renown ; I will not deny thee , for all I try thee ; it grieves my heart thou shouldst make moan Come take thy pleasure , at thy leisure my little pretty bird alone . The promise that I made unto thee , I scorn a word for to deny , And I vow my heart is true unto thee , and all other men I do defy ; Its not the Gold that thou hast told shall win my love thou pretty one ; I will not deny thy company , my little pretty bird alone . Thou dost complain that I did leave thee , and said it did thee soar torment , But what I did was for to try thee , and now I hope to give content ; Both night and day I will thee obey , and vow to be thy only one , A constanter woman never had no man , then I will be to my bird alone . Therefore sweet Willy be contented , despair not in thy love at all , Though I thy company have neglected , I now am willing at a call : If thou wilt me marry , then i'll not tarry , for I vow I am thy only one ; A constanter woman never had no man than I will be to my bird alone . My pretty Pegg then thou art welcome , I am the man that before I was , Though I thy company had but seldom yet now I hope it is come to pass : I shall thee enjoy without annoy , in marriage bed my only one ; I will constant prove , my turtle dove , to thee my pretty bird alone . You pretty M aidens in Town or City that Cupid does invite to love , Take pattern by this new made ditty , and to your sweethearts constant prove ; Be true and Loyal without denial , and truly love your only one ; A constant woman will prove false to no man nor leave her pretty bird alone . T.R. London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 