Pretty KATE of Edenborough ; BEING A New Scotch Song , Sung to the KING at Windsor . Just when the young & amp ; blooming Spring , had melted down the winter Snow , And in the Grove the birds did sing these charming Notes on every Bough : Poor Willy sat bemoaning his fate , and woeful state , for loving , loving , loving and despairing too , alas ! he'd cry , that I must die , for pretty Kate of Edenbrough . WIlly was late at a Wedding-house , where Lords & amp ; Ladies danced all arrow But Willy none so pretty a Lass as bonny Kate of Edenbrough ; Her bright eyes , with smiling joys , did so surprise , And something , something , something , else that shot him through : Thus Willy lies , entranced in joys , with pretty Kate of Edenbrough The God of Love was Willy is Friend , and cast and eye of pity down And straight a fatal Dart did send , the cruel Virgins heart to wound : Now every Dream is all of him , who still does seem More lovely , lovely , lovely , since the Marriage Vow : Thus Willy lies , entranced in joys , with pretty Kate of Edenbrough . Now Willy thinks his happiness , all other Creatures do exceed , His tongue cannot his joys express , since Kate and he are well agreed : Both day and night , her beauty bright , is his delight , And nothing , nothing , nothing , else can Willy do , But found her fame , and praise the Name of pretty Kate of Edenbrough . Cupid with his love does bless , granting him his hearts desire , He does continually express , how that his heart is all on fire : He feels no pains , amid his Chains , but still remains A wounded , wounded , wounded love firm and true ; And all his prate , is now of late , of pretty Kate of Edenbrough . He swears her eyes are full of Charms , enough to conquer all the world , Her smiles secure him from all harms , her Locks they are so neatly curled ; That in his mind he never shall find since she proves kind , A Lover , Lover , Lover , like his Katy true ; and does express his happiness , in pretty Kate of Edenbrough . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . Pretty KATE of Edenborough ; BEING A New Scotch Song , Sung to the KING at Windsor . Just when the young & amp ; blooming Spring , had melted down the winter Snow , And in the Grove the birds did sing these charming Notes on every Bough : Poor Willy sat bemoaning his fate , and woeful state , for loving , loving , loving and despairing too , alas ! he'd cry , that I must die , for pretty Kate of Edenbrough . WIlly was late at a Wedding-house , where Lords & amp ; Ladies danced all arrow But Willy none so pretty a Lass as bonny Kate of Edenbrough ; Her bright eyes , with smiling joys , did so surprise , And something , something , something , else that shot him through : Thus Willy lies , entranced in joys , with pretty Kate of Edenbrough The God of Love was Willy is Friend , and cast and eye of pity down And straight a fatal Dart did send , the cruel Virgins heart to wound : Now every Dream is all of him , who still does seem More lovely , lovely , lovely , since the Marriage Vow : Thus Willy lies , entranced in joys , with pretty Kate of Edenbrough . Now Willy thinks his happiness , all other Creatures do exceed , His tongue cannot his joys express , since Kate and he are well agreed : Both day and night , her beauty bright , is his delight , And nothing , nothing , nothing , else can Willy do , But found her fame , and praise the Name of pretty Kate of Edenbrough . Cupid with his love does bless , granting him his hearts desire , He does continually express , how that his heart is all on fire : He feels no pains , amid his Chains , but still remains A wounded , wounded , wounded love firm and true ; And all his prate , is now of late , of pretty Kate of Edenbrough . He swears her eyes are full of Charms , enough to conquer all the world , Her smiles secure him from all harms , her Locks they are so neatly curled ; That in his mind he never shall find since she proves kind , A Lover , Lover , Lover , like his Katy true ; and does express his happiness , in pretty Kate of Edenbrough . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 