Courageous JOCKEY OR , CUPID'S Victorious Triumph Young Jenny is kind , by this we find , when love did him allure ; His wounded heart , and cruel smart , she willingly did cure . To the Tune of , King Jameses Jig ; Or , lThe Country Farmer . Entered according to Order . Y Oung Jockey was jolly , blithe , and gay , When he to young Jenny did take his way , As fine as a Leard he appeared to view , A Sward by his side , and Bonnet of Blue : Never a Lad in all Scotland , Since Jockey is so rarely Maned That dare to oppose or make him stand , Lest he should have taken his Sward in hand . Thus Jockey went on with a full Carreir To Jenny his jewel , and called her Dear ; Though never Sir could make him bow Yet Jennys fair eyes wone the Conquest now : Young Cupid was a Crafty Wag , And wounded Jockey like a Stag. Quite into the very Wem and Crag , Always me now poor bonny Lad. Dear Jenny , quoth Jockey , grant me relief , And let me not languish away in grief ; I'se now will endue thee with House and Land , Then why should we longer disputing stand stand Sweet Jenny trust thy Scottish Boy , For thou shalt be my only joy , Nothing shall never my love annoy , But Jenny resisted , and seemed coy . Quoth Jenny this proffer is too too great , I'se fear it is but and Enchanted bait , Young men are so full of their false deceit , In Kissing and Courting each Lass they meet , Till they have brought them to their bow , And prove their fatal overthrow , Then sighing they sin their hearts full low . Quoth Jockey , sweet Jenny , I'se mean not so . My words they are Loyal and perfect true , That I am in love and with none but you And will remain thy most faithful still , Grant me but thy favour and kind good will : Love do not slight now therefore , By thee I set such mighty store , Should I have the choice of a thousand more , Yet none but my Jenny I'se never adore . When Jockey had said what he had to say , She had not the power to say him nay , Her silence did seem for to give consent , He knew by her motion her mild intent : Then smilingly she thus replied . Be faithful now what ever betide , Thy suit it shall never more be denied , I'se yield now to be thy faithful Bride . Then Jockey was jolly and gave a kiss So Jenny in token of true loves bliss ; And now these two Lovers are both agreed To finish the matter in hand with speed : Away they gang to Berwick Town , To buy a Ring and Russet Gown , He gave her two Guinnies and half a Crown , For he was a Leard of high Renown . Au's me , what a muckle ado was there , When they for the Wedding did thus prepare : Her Daddy and Mammy and Sister Sue , With Sawny and Moggy , and all the Crew : Was blithe upon his wedding-day , The Lads and Lasses they were gay , The Pipers and Fiddlers they did play , The Scottish Jig and the Irish Day . This may be Printed R. L. S. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur - street without Newgate . Courageous JOCKEY OR , CUPID'S Victorious Triumph Young Jenny is kind , by this we find , when love did him allure ; His wounded heart , and cruel smart , she willingly did cure . To the Tune of , King Jameses Jig ; Or , lThe Country Farmer . Entered according to Order . Y Oung Jockey was jolly , blithe , and gay , When he to young Jenny did take his way , As fine as a Leard he appeared to view , A Sward by his side , and Bonnet of Blue : Never a Lad in all Scotland , Since Jockey is so rarely Maned That dare to oppose or make him stand , Lest he should have taken his Sward in hand . Thus Jockey went on with a full Carreir To Jenny his jewel , and called her Dear ; Though never Sir could make him bow Yet Jennys fair eyes wone the Conquest now : Young Cupid was a Crafty Wag , And wounded Jockey like a Stag. Quite into the very Wem and Crag , Always me now poor bonny Lad. Dear Jenny , quoth Jockey , grant me relief , And let me not languish away in grief ; I'se now will endue thee with House and Land , Then why should we longer disputing stand stand Sweet Jenny trust thy Scottish Boy , For thou shalt be my only joy , Nothing shall never my love annoy , But Jenny resisted , and seemed coy . Quoth Jenny this proffer is too too great , I'se fear it is but and Enchanted bait , Young men are so full of their false deceit , In Kissing and Courting each Lass they meet , Till they have brought them to their bow , And prove their fatal overthrow , Then sighing they sin their hearts full low . Quoth Jockey , sweet Jenny , I'se mean not so . My words they are Loyal and perfect true , That I am in love and with none but you And will remain thy most faithful still , Grant me but thy favour and kind good will : Love do not slight now therefore , By thee I set such mighty store , Should I have the choice of a thousand more , Yet none but my Jenny I'se never adore . When Jockey had said what he had to say , She had not the power to say him nay , Her silence did seem for to give consent , He knew by her motion her mild intent : Then smilingly she thus replied . Be faithful now what ever betide , Thy suit it shall never more be denied , I'se yield now to be thy faithful Bride . Then Jockey was jolly and gave a kiss So Jenny in token of true loves bliss ; And now these two Lovers are both agreed To finish the matter in hand with speed : Away they gang to Berwick Town , To buy a Ring and Russet Gown , He gave her two Guinnies and half a Crown , For he was a Leard of high Renown . Au's me , what a muckle ado was there , When they for the Wedding did thus prepare : Her Daddy and Mammy and Sister Sue , With Sawny and Moggy , and all the Crew : Was blithe upon his wedding-day , The Lads and Lasses they were gay , The Pipers and Fiddlers they did play , The Scottish Jig and the Irish Day . This may be Printed R. L. S. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur - street without Newgate . 