Love put to it's Shifts : Or , The Merry Meeting of JEMMY and JENNY . To the Tune of , Tell me Jenny , etc Entered according to Order . O N a time as I was walking , in a Meadow , by a River , There I herd two lovers talking , when they should be joined together , Jemmy swore , once and more , that he could no longer tarry , But the fair , did declare , she had as yet no mind to marry . Prithee dearest tell me freely , why you do so long defer it , Faith and Troth it's very silly , e'ry day thus to forbear it : Jemmy no , did you know , what you fancy in your passion , You would not , be so hight , marriage now is out of fashion . But when Jemmy herd her reason , what his fancy could not cotton , This says he is petty Treason , and can never be forgotten : For should we , single be , Love would never be rewarded , What is best for our rest , ought not to be disregarded . L Ove , quoth Jenny , it's a Favour , for a moment raging in you , But I find by your behaviour , it's not likely to continue : For did you , love me true . like other men you would have tarried We should see , you would be , not so hasty to be married . Tell me what says Jemmy boldly , makes you with my passion daily , Prithee why do you thus hold me , thus to plague me with your folly : Either go , or say no , I can't abide this tedious staying , Time does run with the Sun , prithee leave of this delaying . Whereupon without requesting , rudely on the ground he threw her , Fie says she , such foolish jesting , from my heart I can't endure , But the Swain , told her plain , since she had no will to marry , That he could for his blood , from his hope's no longer tarry . What says she you wicked creature , do you mean by all this fooling Nought said he , but harmless Nature , who regarded not her Schooling ; Fie says she , certainly , I think you're minded to undo me . J enny not , say not so , for no harm at all i'll do thee . Then as if she had been dying , happily his will he gained , And in spite of all denying , easily her honour stained ; Now says he , are you free , to the Church we should be going , Yes says she , if you be , and so they did conclude their wooing . FINIS . P rinted for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Love put to it's Shifts : Or , The Merry Meeting of JEMMY and JENNY . To the Tune of , Tell me Jenny , etc Entered according to Order . O N a time as I was walking , in a Meadow , by a River , There I herd two lovers talking , when they should be joined together , Jemmy swore , once and more , that he could no longer tarry , But the fair , did declare , she had as yet no mind to marry . Prithee dearest tell me freely , why you do so long defer it , Faith and Troth it's very silly , e'ry day thus to forbear it : Jemmy no , did you know , what you fancy in your passion , You would not , be so hight , marriage now is out of fashion . But when Jemmy herd her reason , what his fancy could not cotton , This says he is petty Treason , and can never be forgotten : For should we , single be , Love would never be rewarded , What is best for our rest , ought not to be disregarded . L Ove , quoth Jenny , it's a Favour , for a moment raging in you , But I find by your behaviour , it's not likely to continue : For did you , love me true . like other men you would have tarried We should see , you would be , not so hasty to be married . Tell me what says Jemmy boldly , makes you with my passion daily , Prithee why do you thus hold me , thus to plague me with your folly : Either go , or say no , I can't abide this tedious staying , Time does run with the Sun , prithee leave of this delaying . Whereupon without requesting , rudely on the ground he threw her , Fie says she , such foolish jesting , from my heart I can't endure , But the Swain , told her plain , since she had no will to marry , That he could for his blood , from his hope's no longer tarry . What says she you wicked creature , do you mean by all this fooling Nought said he , but harmless Nature , who regarded not her Schooling ; Fie says she , certainly , I think you're minded to undo me . J enny not , say not so , for no harm at all i'll do thee . Then as if she had been dying , happily his will he gained , And in spite of all denying , easily her honour stained ; Now says he , are you free , to the Church we should be going , Yes says she , if you be , and so they did conclude their wooing . FINIS . P rinted for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 