REAL REALITY , OR , The Soldiers Loyalty . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . Written by a Soldier in the Camp . This may be Printed , R.L.S. TO Ho' at present I must leave thee , constant still I will remain ; Of all thy Sex I love thee dearly , love till death I will maintain : Therefore Dearest rest contented , fortune yet on me may smile , My Loyalty I have presented , to King and Country for a while . If Mars with furies has designed to bring my Honour to the Dust , All Mortals know we are consigned , to pay a death , and die we must : In Field undaunted I will venture , life and fortune for my King , In Rear , in front , and also Centre , Rebels shall my fury fling . Mars commands , I must obey him , in the field with armour bright , Applause and Honour does display him , to maintain Great James's Right : I will venture to the Centre , where the greatest dangers lie , and in Battle where Drums rattle , Death himself I will defy . Though our Enemies surround us they our Courage still shall feel , We with our Swords will lay about us the which are made of Tempered steel : Our Enemies we'll make to tremble , to see with what courage we fight , And our King we must resemble , for we will maintain his Right . Rest thou my dear a while contented , blast me not out of thy mind , Though for a time I be absented , my heart thou knowest I have resigned To thee my dear before we parted , as to thee it is well known , My desire's prove thou truehearted , until to thee I do return . Though Rebels falsify their trust , and prove Disloyal to their King , Though they began now end we must , & amp ; make the World with fame to ring Of Second James a Prince of Princes , whose noble deeds does merit praise It's the prayer of Loyal Subject's , to multiply his life and days . Honour is the thing deigned , and the glory of our cause , To repel those that combined , to subvert the Kingdoms Laws ; but their delusion is confusion , which upon their heads will fallen , While the Loyal stand the Trial , we will rout the Rebels all . And now my dearest dear and honey , faith full still will I remain , No change i'll make for gold or money , or for the greatest Indian gain , Nothing shall fasifie the vow , as unto thee I solemn made , A s was I then , so am I now , no beauty shall my heart invade . Heavens bless thee , though I left thee , true till Death I will remain , If Mistress fortune does befriend me ever long I shall see thee again : Let Rebels die , before they fly , that were disloyal to their King , And grant great Cesar may live ever , whose name with fame shall ever ring Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . REAL REALITY , OR , The Soldiers Loyalty . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . Written by a Soldier in the Camp . This may be Printed , R.L.S. TO Ho' at present I must leave thee , constant still I will remain ; Of all thy Sex I love thee dearly , love till death I will maintain : Therefore Dearest rest contented , fortune yet on me may smile , My Loyalty I have presented , to King and Country for a while . If Mars with furies has designed to bring my Honour to the Dust , All Mortals know we are consigned , to pay a death , and die we must : In Field undaunted I will venture , life and fortune for my King , In Rear , in front , and also Centre , Rebels shall my fury fling . Mars commands , I must obey him , in the field with armour bright , Applause and Honour does display him , to maintain Great James's Right : I will venture to the Centre , where the greatest dangers lie , and in Battle where Drums rattle , Death himself I will defy . Though our Enemies surround us they our Courage still shall feel , We with our Swords will lay about us the which are made of Tempered steel : Our Enemies we'll make to tremble , to see with what courage we fight , And our King we must resemble , for we will maintain his Right . Rest thou my dear a while contented , blast me not out of thy mind , Though for a time I be absented , my heart thou knowest I have resigned To thee my dear before we parted , as to thee it is well known , My desire's prove thou truehearted , until to thee I do return . Though Rebels falsify their trust , and prove Disloyal to their King , Though they began now end we must , & amp ; make the World with fame to ring Of Second James a Prince of Princes , whose noble deeds does merit praise It's the prayer of Loyal Subject's , to multiply his life and days . Honour is the thing deigned , and the glory of our cause , To repel those that combined , to subvert the Kingdoms Laws ; but their delusion is confusion , which upon their heads will fallen , While the Loyal stand the Trial , we will rout the Rebels all . And now my dearest dear and honey , faith full still will I remain , No change i'll make for gold or money , or for the greatest Indian gain , Nothing shall fasifie the vow , as unto thee I solemn made , A s was I then , so am I now , no beauty shall my heart invade . Heavens bless thee , though I left thee , true till Death I will remain , If Mistress fortune does befriend me ever long I shall see thee again : Let Rebels die , before they fly , that were disloyal to their King , And grant great Cesar may live ever , whose name with fame shall ever ring Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . 