The Nightingales Song ; Or The Soldiers rare Music , and Maids Recreation . The Song adviseth Maids to have a care , And of a Soldiers Knapsack to beware . The Tune of , No , no , not I ; Or , Peggy and the Soldier . A S I went forth one Sunshining Day , A dainty young Couple were gathering May : The one a fair Damosel , of beauty most clear , The other a Soldier , as it does appear . With kisses and compliments , to her he said , Good morrow sweet honey thou well favoured Maid , I think my self happy , I met with you here As you are a Virgin , and I a Soldier . And now if you pleased be , I will you bring , Whereas you shall hear the sweet Nightingale sing : With other rare pastimes , my skill shall be tried If you will walk with me , to the merry greenwood side . Sweet Sir ( said the Damosel If you will do so , Then hand in hand with you , along I will go , It is recreation for maids in the Spring , To see Flowers grow , and hear Nightingales sing . And having thus spoken , together they went , Unto a merry greenwood , where some time they spent , In walking and talking , of many and odd thing , But yet could not hear the Nightingale sing . A dainty clear river , was running them by , A Bank of sweet Violets , and Primroses nigh : Then said the young Gallant , fit down by this spring , We'll here take out pleasure till the Nightingale sing . The Maid seemed unwilling , and said she'd be gone , And yet she was loath for to leave him alone , At last she resolved her self to this thing , To stay till they herd , the sweet Nightingale sing . among the sweet Flowers they straightway sat down , The youngman in kindness , gave her a green Gown , He also presented to her a Gold Ring , Because she should stay there , till the sweet Nightingale sing . And having thus done , he took her about the middle , And forth of his Knap-Sack , he pulled a rare Fiddle , And played her a fit , made the Valleys to ring , O now , ( quoth she ) I hear the Nightingale sing . TO Hen now said the Soldier it's time we give over , Nay prithee ( quoth she ) play me one Lesson more : I like boht the setting , and tuning the string , Far better than hearing the Nightingale sing . He struck up his music , unto a high strain , And played the tune over again and again : Gramercy brave Soldier . ( quoth she that did bring Me hither to hear the rare Nightingale sing . Their sport being ended , then homeward they went , Each one thought the time , to be very well spent : It was quoth the Damosel , a very rare thing . While thou playdest thy part , to hear the Nightingale sing . At last with a deep sighs , these words spoke she ; I pray thee good Soldier wilt thou marry me : Else my hasty pleasure , sweet Sorrows will bring , And I may repent I herd the Nightingale sing , O no , quoth the Soldier , I may not do so , Along with my Captain , tomorrow I must go , But if I come this way , again the next Spring , We'll walk once more to hear the sweet Nightingale sing . You Maids of the City , and Country that be Addicted to pleasure , take warning by me : Let no flattering Youngmen , tempt you to this thing . To go to the wood to hear the Nightingale sing . Make bargain before hand , for fear you miscarry , Know whither or no they are minded to marry : If I had been wise , and had done such a thing , I need not repent I herd the Nightingale sing . Printed for J. Wright , J. C [ lark , W. ] Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Nightingales Song ; Or The Soldiers rare Music , and Maids Recreation . The Song adviseth Maids to have a care , And of a Soldiers Knapsack to beware . The Tune of , No , no , not I ; Or , Peggy and the Soldier . A S I went forth one Sunshining Day , A dainty young Couple were gathering May : The one a fair Damosel , of beauty most clear , The other a Soldier , as it does appear . With kisses and compliments , to her he said , Good morrow sweet honey thou well favoured Maid , I think my self happy , I met with you here As you are a Virgin , and I a Soldier . And now if you pleased be , I will you bring , Whereas you shall hear the sweet Nightingale sing : With other rare pastimes , my skill shall be tried If you will walk with me , to the merry greenwood side . Sweet Sir ( said the Damosel If you will do so , Then hand in hand with you , along I will go , It is recreation for maids in the Spring , To see Flowers grow , and hear Nightingales sing . And having thus spoken , together they went , Unto a merry greenwood , where some time they spent , In walking and talking , of many and odd thing , But yet could not hear the Nightingale sing . A dainty clear river , was running them by , A Bank of sweet Violets , and Primroses nigh : Then said the young Gallant , fit down by this spring , We'll here take out pleasure till the Nightingale sing . The Maid seemed unwilling , and said she'd be gone , And yet she was loath for to leave him alone , At last she resolved her self to this thing , To stay till they herd , the sweet Nightingale sing . among the sweet Flowers they straightway sat down , The youngman in kindness , gave her a green Gown , He also presented to her a Gold Ring , Because she should stay there , till the sweet Nightingale sing . And having thus done , he took her about the middle , And forth of his Knap-Sack , he pulled a rare Fiddle , And played her a fit , made the Valleys to ring , O now , ( quoth she ) I hear the Nightingale sing . TO Hen now said the Soldier it's time we give over , Nay prithee ( quoth she ) play me one Lesson more : I like boht the setting , and tuning the string , Far better than hearing the Nightingale sing . He struck up his music , unto a high strain , And played the tune over again and again : Gramercy brave Soldier . ( quoth she that did bring Me hither to hear the rare Nightingale sing . Their sport being ended , then homeward they went , Each one thought the time , to be very well spent : It was quoth the Damosel , a very rare thing . While thou playdest thy part , to hear the Nightingale sing . At last with a deep sighs , these words spoke she ; I pray thee good Soldier wilt thou marry me : Else my hasty pleasure , sweet Sorrows will bring , And I may repent I herd the Nightingale sing , O no , quoth the Soldier , I may not do so , Along with my Captain , tomorrow I must go , But if I come this way , again the next Spring , We'll walk once more to hear the sweet Nightingale sing . You Maids of the City , and Country that be Addicted to pleasure , take warning by me : Let no flattering Youngmen , tempt you to this thing . To go to the wood to hear the Nightingale sing . Make bargain before hand , for fear you miscarry , Know whither or no they are minded to marry : If I had been wise , and had done such a thing , I need not repent I herd the Nightingale sing . Printed for J. Wright , J. C [ lark , W. ] Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 