A Posy of Rare Flowers : Gathered by a Youngman for his Mistress . To a pleasant new Tune . TO He Summer's over heating , Within and Arbour sitting , under a Marble shade . For my true love the fairest , And of all flowers the rarest , a Posy thus I made . The first and last for trusting , Is called everlasting , I pulled from the bay . The blue and crimson Columbine , The Dazy and the Woodvine , and eke the blooming-May . The sweetest Flowers for Posies , Pinks , Gillyoflwers and Roses , I gathered in their prime . The flowers of muskmillions , Come blow me down sweet Williams , with Rosemarry and Time . The Larkheel and the Lily , The Flag and Daffadilly , the Wall-Flower sweet of smell , The Maidenblush and Cowslip , The Peagle and the Tulip , that does so sweet excel . The Violent and the Greenline , The Odoriferous Eglantine , with thrift and modesty . The Musk Rose sweet and dainty , With other Flowers plenty , Oxlops and Pyony . The Gilly Flowers variety , Of every colo [ u ] r severally , the Lady smack and Pancy . The Bachelors Button fair and fine The Primrose and the Sops in Wine with them the Maidens fancy . The time observing Marygold , Most fair and lovely to behold , I plucked among the rest . The white and read Carnation , The senses Recreation , with other Flowers the best . The Flowers fit for smelling , Whose sweet is far excelling , all the perfumes of art , I pulled each several . And made a Posy therewithal , to bear to my sweet heart . S Weet Basil and sweet Margerum , The Cowslip of Jerusalem , the Crowfoot and Sea-Flower . The Start up and come kiss me , A Flower that shall not miss me , in my true Lovers bower . The Lady of Essex fair , A Flower passing sweet and rare , I in the midst did place , Because my love is fairest , And of all Flowers the rarest , in body and in face . The Flowers being called , And their branches pulled , did yield a fragrant scent . Observing their due places , I bound them in bride Laces , and to my love I went . In hope she would receive them , To'th end that I might give them , as pledges of my love . To her whose radiant beauty , Did bind me to this duty , hoping she'l never remove . Her permanent affection , To me who by election , am hers while life does last . These flowers did resemble , My thoughts , which never dissemble , but hold both smell and taste . When I had made this Nosegay , With joyful heart I took my way , to find out my true love . Who for my absence mourned , Until that I returned , as does the Turtle Dove . At last I found her sporting , With other Maids consorting , close by Rivers side . My Posy not refused , When she the same perused , upon her arm she tied . Quoth she although these Flowers . Will wither in few hours , yet take my word sweet heart . My word to thee shall never decay , Till death takes my life away , from thee I'll never depart . The like to her I vowed , And while the same allowed , about such things we talked . At length because it waxed late , We for that time did leave our prate and from each other walked . When with a mild behaviour , She thanks me for my favour , and wore it for my sake , With interchanging Kisses , The rest remains in wishes , unwilling leave we take . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . A Posy of Rare Flowers : Gathered by a Youngman for his Mistress . To a pleasant new Tune . TO He Summer's over heating , Within and Arbour sitting , under a Marble shade . For my true love the fairest , And of all flowers the rarest , a Posy thus I made . The first and last for trusting , Is called everlasting , I pulled from the bay . The blue and crimson Columbine , The Dazy and the Woodvine , and eke the blooming-May . The sweetest Flowers for Posies , Pinks , Gillyoflwers and Roses , I gathered in their prime . The flowers of muskmillions , Come blow me down sweet Williams , with Rosemarry and Time . The Larkheel and the Lily , The Flag and Daffadilly , the Wall-Flower sweet of smell , The Maidenblush and Cowslip , The Peagle and the Tulip , that does so sweet excel . The Violent and the Greenline , The Odoriferous Eglantine , with thrift and modesty . The Musk Rose sweet and dainty , With other Flowers plenty , Oxlops and Pyony . The Gilly Flowers variety , Of every colo [ u ] r severally , the Lady smack and Pancy . The Bachelors Button fair and fine The Primrose and the Sops in Wine with them the Maidens fancy . The time observing Marygold , Most fair and lovely to behold , I plucked among the rest . The white and read Carnation , The senses Recreation , with other Flowers the best . The Flowers fit for smelling , Whose sweet is far excelling , all the perfumes of art , I pulled each several . And made a Posy therewithal , to bear to my sweet heart . S Weet Basil and sweet Margerum , The Cowslip of Jerusalem , the Crowfoot and Sea-Flower . The Start up and come kiss me , A Flower that shall not miss me , in my true Lovers bower . The Lady of Essex fair , A Flower passing sweet and rare , I in the midst did place , Because my love is fairest , And of all Flowers the rarest , in body and in face . The Flowers being called , And their branches pulled , did yield a fragrant scent . Observing their due places , I bound them in bride Laces , and to my love I went . In hope she would receive them , To'th end that I might give them , as pledges of my love . To her whose radiant beauty , Did bind me to this duty , hoping she'l never remove . Her permanent affection , To me who by election , am hers while life does last . These flowers did resemble , My thoughts , which never dissemble , but hold both smell and taste . When I had made this Nosegay , With joyful heart I took my way , to find out my true love . Who for my absence mourned , Until that I returned , as does the Turtle Dove . At last I found her sporting , With other Maids consorting , close by Rivers side . My Posy not refused , When she the same perused , upon her arm she tied . Quoth she although these Flowers . Will wither in few hours , yet take my word sweet heart . My word to thee shall never decay , Till death takes my life away , from thee I'll never depart . The like to her I vowed , And while the same allowed , about such things we talked . At length because it waxed late , We for that time did leave our prate and from each other walked . When with a mild behaviour , She thanks me for my favour , and wore it for my sake , With interchanging Kisses , The rest remains in wishes , unwilling leave we take . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 