THE True Lovers Knot Untied . Being the right path , whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to behave themselves , by the Ex - ample of the Renowned Princess , the Lady Arabella , and the second Son to the Lord Seymour , late Earl of Hertford . Tune of , Frogs Gailiard . A S I through Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was , which from fair England took her way . This Ship that sailed from fair England , unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command , that they to London should us bring . I drew more near and saw more plain , Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came , whereas her Landing place should be . The King and Queen with all their train , did meet this Lady gallantly . How now Arabella , then our King unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first tied you to this thing , that you from England took your way . None but my self , my Gracious Liege , this ten long years I've been in love With the Lord Seymours second Son , the Earl of Hertford , so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest Man of Goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your Grace does understand . My Lands and Livings are well known , unto your Book of Majesty , Amounts to twelve score pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . The second part , to the same Tune . I N gallant Derby-shire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there , With Hats and Gowns and house rent-free , and every Man five Marks a year . I never raised Rend , said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no Bribes for Fines , for why I had enough before . Whom of your Nobles will do so , for to maintain the Commonalty , Such multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of Poverty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low degree , Then I might have loved where I like , and no man could have hindered me . Or would I were some Yeomans Child , for to receive my Portion now , According unto my Degree , as other Virgins as I know . The highest Branch that soars aloft , needs must beshade the Myrtle Tree , Needs must the shadow of them both shadow the third in his degree . But when the Tree is cut and gone , and from the ground is boar away , The lowest Tree that there does stand , in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen , but yet that still I do deny , I knew your Grace had right to'th Crown , before Elizabeth did die . You of the Eldest Sister came , I of the second in degree , The Earl of Hertford of the third , a man of Royal blood was he . And so good night my Sovereign Liege , since in the Tower I must lie , I hope your Grace will condescend , that I may have my liberty . Lady Arabella , said our King , I to your freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church , there to receive the Sacrament . And so good night Arabella fair , our King replied to her again , I will take counsel of my Nobility , that you your freedom may obtain . Once more to Prison must I go , Lady Arabella then did say , To leave my Love breeds all my woe , the which will be my lives decay . Love is a knot none can unknit , fancy a liking of the heart , He whom I love , I cannot forget , though from his presence I must part . The meanest people enjoy their Mates , but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel Fates , I want both Love and Liberty . But death I hope will end the strife . farewell , farewell , my Love ( quoth she ) Once had I thought to have been thy Wife but now am forced to part from thee . At this sad meeting she had cause , in heart and mind to grieve full soar : After that time Arabella fair , did never see Lord Seymour more . printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Pass [ i ] nger . THE True Lovers Knot Untied . Being the right path , whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to behave themselves , by the Ex - ample of the Renowned Princess , the Lady Arabella , and the second Son to the Lord Seymour , late Earl of Hertford . Tune of , Frogs Gailiard . A S I through Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was , which from fair England took her way . This Ship that sailed from fair England , unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command , that they to London should us bring . I drew more near and saw more plain , Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came , whereas her Landing place should be . The King and Queen with all their train , did meet this Lady gallantly . How now Arabella , then our King unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first tied you to this thing , that you from England took your way . None but my self , my Gracious Liege , this ten long years I've been in love With the Lord Seymours second Son , the Earl of Hertford , so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest Man of Goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your Grace does understand . My Lands and Livings are well known , unto your Book of Majesty , Amounts to twelve score pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . The second part , to the same Tune . I N gallant Derby-shire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there , With Hats and Gowns and house rent-free , and every Man five Marks a year . I never raised Rend , said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no Bribes for Fines , for why I had enough before . Whom of your Nobles will do so , for to maintain the Commonalty , Such multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of Poverty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low degree , Then I might have loved where I like , and no man could have hindered me . Or would I were some Yeomans Child , for to receive my Portion now , According unto my Degree , as other Virgins as I know . The highest Branch that soars aloft , needs must beshade the Myrtle Tree , Needs must the shadow of them both shadow the third in his degree . But when the Tree is cut and gone , and from the ground is boar away , The lowest Tree that there does stand , in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen , but yet that still I do deny , I knew your Grace had right to'th Crown , before Elizabeth did die . You of the Eldest Sister came , I of the second in degree , The Earl of Hertford of the third , a man of Royal blood was he . And so good night my Sovereign Liege , since in the Tower I must lie , I hope your Grace will condescend , that I may have my liberty . Lady Arabella , said our King , I to your freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church , there to receive the Sacrament . And so good night Arabella fair , our King replied to her again , I will take counsel of my Nobility , that you your freedom may obtain . Once more to Prison must I go , Lady Arabella then did say , To leave my Love breeds all my woe , the which will be my lives decay . Love is a knot none can unknit , fancy a liking of the heart , He whom I love , I cannot forget , though from his presence I must part . The meanest people enjoy their Mates , but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel Fates , I want both Love and Liberty . But death I hope will end the strife . farewell , farewell , my Love ( quoth she ) Once had I thought to have been thy Wife but now am forced to part from thee . At this sad meeting she had cause , in heart and mind to grieve full soar : After that time Arabella fair , did never see Lord Seymour more . printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Pass [ i ] nger . 