The Lovers Invitation : OR , THE Forsaken Bachelors Complaint . It Being a Pleasant New PLAY-SONG . See how Cross Fates work Lovers daily woe , Which from hardhearted Virgins Eyes they throw ; Such as Create Diseases in the Mind , For which no Cure but yielding Love they Find . To the Tune of , Love in Fantastic Triumph sat ; Or , May in all her Youthful Dress . L Ove in Fantastic Triumph sat , while Bleeding hearts around him flowed From whose fresh pains he did create , and strange Tyrannic power he showed ; From thy Bright eyes he took his Fires , which round about in Sport he hurled , But 'twas from mine he took desire , enough ' tundo the Amorous World . From me he took his sighs and tears , from thee his pride and cruelty , From me his languishment and fears , and e'ry killing Dart from thee ? Thus thou and I the God have armed , and set him up a Deity , But my poor heart alone is harmed , while thine the Victor is , and free . Over me he reigns without control , spurs on my passion as he please , and with Loves Favours heat my soul , while you are calm and live at ease : While you your Ears shut to my moan , and turn my gentle sighs away , You little think I am undone , while with your frowns you Love delay . What if my Wealth be not so great , if Lands and Flocks I call not mine ; Can Fair Aminta therefore [ would ] te , can she on nought but Riches shine ; True Love and Fortune seldom lie under one Roof , seldom agree , Riches true Love can never buy , by Treasure it can't purchased be . Fortune it's true has large command . Riches and Honour her obey , Yet never with mighty Love could stand , over true Love she never yet had sway , Then turn my Dear Aminta turn , to thy admiring Loving Swain , Who scorched by your fair Eyes do burn , and without you must live in pain . Must Sighs his days away in grief , and tell the senseless Woods his woe , To Rocks complain without relief , if you my Dear no pity show : Oh give a Cordial Smile to raise my Drooping Soul send from your Eyes Those pleasing Glances , those sweet Rays , that can with ease all Hearts surprise . Consider well that you was made to yield to Love and soft Delight , Oh why are then our joys delayed , why turn you thus our day to night : A thing so fair sure never can be cruel , when such vows are sent , To all the powers of Love by Man , to ratify his true intent . Delay not then , no more delay , come smile a Gentle smile or two , And turn my night into a Day , restore me , make me live a new : To Pleasure you my care shall be , my Tongue shall your loud praises chime , Aminta then be kind and free , and lose not in disdain your Prime . Great Nature made you for increase , and things not used , their Luster lose , Then to be Cruel ever cease , and a Kind Lover kindly choose ; Love and good Nature do not scorn , O! be not cruel to the Man Who for your sake so oft does mourn , Who must without you be undone . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Lovers Invitation : OR , THE Forsaken Bachelors Complaint . It Being a Pleasant New PLAY-SONG . See how Cross Fates work Lovers daily woe , Which from hardhearted Virgins Eyes they throw ; Such as Create Diseases in the Mind , For which no Cure but yielding Love they Find . To the Tune of , Love in Fantastic Triumph sat ; Or , May in all her Youthful Dress . L Ove in Fantastic Triumph sat , while Bleeding hearts around him flowed From whose fresh pains he did create , and strange Tyrannic power he showed ; From thy Bright eyes he took his Fires , which round about in Sport he hurled , But 'twas from mine he took desire , enough ' tundo the Amorous World . From me he took his sighs and tears , from thee his pride and cruelty , From me his languishment and fears , and e'ry killing Dart from thee ? Thus thou and I the God have armed , and set him up a Deity , But my poor heart alone is harmed , while thine the Victor is , and free . Over me he reigns without control , spurs on my passion as he please , and with Loves Favours heat my soul , while you are calm and live at ease : While you your Ears shut to my moan , and turn my gentle sighs away , You little think I am undone , while with your frowns you Love delay . What if my Wealth be not so great , if Lands and Flocks I call not mine ; Can Fair Aminta therefore [ would ] te , can she on nought but Riches shine ; True Love and Fortune seldom lie under one Roof , seldom agree , Riches true Love can never buy , by Treasure it can't purchased be . Fortune it's true has large command . Riches and Honour her obey , Yet never with mighty Love could stand , over true Love she never yet had sway , Then turn my Dear Aminta turn , to thy admiring Loving Swain , Who scorched by your fair Eyes do burn , and without you must live in pain . Must Sighs his days away in grief , and tell the senseless Woods his woe , To Rocks complain without relief , if you my Dear no pity show : Oh give a Cordial Smile to raise my Drooping Soul send from your Eyes Those pleasing Glances , those sweet Rays , that can with ease all Hearts surprise . Consider well that you was made to yield to Love and soft Delight , Oh why are then our joys delayed , why turn you thus our day to night : A thing so fair sure never can be cruel , when such vows are sent , To all the powers of Love by Man , to ratify his true intent . Delay not then , no more delay , come smile a Gentle smile or two , And turn my night into a Day , restore me , make me live a new : To Pleasure you my care shall be , my Tongue shall your loud praises chime , Aminta then be kind and free , and lose not in disdain your Prime . Great Nature made you for increase , and things not used , their Luster lose , Then to be Cruel ever cease , and a Kind Lover kindly choose ; Love and good Nature do not scorn , O! be not cruel to the Man Who for your sake so oft does mourn , Who must without you be undone . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 