The Shepherd's Joy Renewed . Coridon seeking of his flocks Left Cloris all alone , Who to the woods , the trees , & amp ; rocks Sighed out her grievous moan , Tune of , Young Phaon . C Ome mourn with me you Shepherd's all , that visit flowery Plains , While I lament in discontent my sorrows and my pains , My Coridon has me forsook , in whom I took delight , And trouble hath me overtook , my days are turned to night . I never thought he'd me forskake , while he enjoyed his breath , Some mischief did him overtake , or he's surprised by death : Else could he not be so unkind to leave his Cloris so Perplexed and troubled in her mind , surrounded thus with woe . Into some secret Cave will I most secretly retire , And end my life in misery , and never-ceasing fire , I'll write my Motto for my Tomb , and have it set thereon , And will conclude in little room , Ah faithless Coridon . But could I once be sure again his lovely face to see , I'de banish sorrow , scorn my pain , and slight my misery , I'de sing his praises e'ry where as I went with my Flocks , And Loyalty to him I'de swear amid the stony Rocks . But woe is me it's now too late such joys ever to obtain , For I am robbed by cruel fate , which causeth all my pain : Grim death without all question did upon my Shepherd seize , O who can such mishaps forbid , or help my sad disease . As she lay in this deep distress just ready to depart , He came to look his Shepherdess , which joyed her woeful heart , So she betwixt both hope and fear fell down all in a swoon , She cried my Coridon , my dear , as she lay on the ground , Why hast thou been unkind to me , where has thou been so long ? Thus to increase my misery , and do thy truelove wrong : I never thought thee to behold with my poor watery eyes , That love thee better far then gold , hadst thou but herd my cries . It would have pierced thee to the heart to hear my grievous moan , When thou were't wandering the Desert , and left me here alone ; But Coridon well minding this , was moved much with pity , And cried as he gave her a kiss , thou art too fair , too pretty To be thus used , but hear my love , my flocks were gone astray ; Which was the cause that did me move to stay so long away : But should my sheep be lost again I'de tarry still with thee , And with my Cloris still remain , that mourned so for me . Betwixt his arms he took her then , and with embraces sweet These Lovers they did once again like faithful Lovers meet . Whose looks upon each other then did make them seem as blessed , But lo , the night aprroached , when They laid Them down to rest . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark . W . Thackery : T. Passenger . The Shepherd's Joy Renewed . Coridon seeking of his flocks Left Cloris all alone , Who to the woods , the trees , & amp ; rocks Sighed out her grievous moan , Tune of , Young Phaon . C Ome mourn with me you Shepherd's all , that visit flowery Plains , While I lament in discontent my sorrows and my pains , My Coridon has me forsook , in whom I took delight , And trouble hath me overtook , my days are turned to night . I never thought he'd me forskake , while he enjoyed his breath , Some mischief did him overtake , or he's surprised by death : Else could he not be so unkind to leave his Cloris so Perplexed and troubled in her mind , surrounded thus with woe . Into some secret Cave will I most secretly retire , And end my life in misery , and never-ceasing fire , I'll write my Motto for my Tomb , and have it set thereon , And will conclude in little room , Ah faithless Coridon . But could I once be sure again his lovely face to see , I'de banish sorrow , scorn my pain , and slight my misery , I'de sing his praises e'ry where as I went with my Flocks , And Loyalty to him I'de swear amid the stony Rocks . But woe is me it's now too late such joys ever to obtain , For I am robbed by cruel fate , which causeth all my pain : Grim death without all question did upon my Shepherd seize , O who can such mishaps forbid , or help my sad disease . As she lay in this deep distress just ready to depart , He came to look his Shepherdess , which joyed her woeful heart , So she betwixt both hope and fear fell down all in a swoon , She cried my Coridon , my dear , as she lay on the ground , Why hast thou been unkind to me , where has thou been so long ? Thus to increase my misery , and do thy truelove wrong : I never thought thee to behold with my poor watery eyes , That love thee better far then gold , hadst thou but herd my cries . It would have pierced thee to the heart to hear my grievous moan , When thou were't wandering the Desert , and left me here alone ; But Coridon well minding this , was moved much with pity , And cried as he gave her a kiss , thou art too fair , too pretty To be thus used , but hear my love , my flocks were gone astray ; Which was the cause that did me move to stay so long away : But should my sheep be lost again I'de tarry still with thee , And with my Cloris still remain , that mourned so for me . Betwixt his arms he took her then , and with embraces sweet These Lovers they did once again like faithful Lovers meet . Whose looks upon each other then did make them seem as blessed , But lo , the night aprroached , when They laid Them down to rest . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark . W . Thackery : T. Passenger . 