The Maids Complaint For want of a Dil doul . This Girl long time had in a sickness been , Which many maids do call the sickness green : I wish she may some comfort find poor Soul And have her belly filled with a Dil doul . To a New Tune , called the Dil doul ; or Women and Wine . Y Oung men give ear to me a while if you to merriment are inclined , And i'll tell you a story shall make you to smile of late done by a woman kind : And as she went musing all alone I herd her to sighs , to sob and make moan F or a dill doul , dil doul , dil doul doul , ( quoth she ) I'm undone if I hant a dil doul For I am a Maid and a very good Maid , and sixteen years of age am I , And fain would I part with my Maidenhead if any good fellow would with me lie : But none to me ever yet proffered such love , as to lie by my side and give me a shove With his dil doul , dill doul , dil doul , Oh happy were I , etc At night when I do go to bed thinking for to take my rest , Strange fancies comes in my head I pray for that which I love best : For it is a comfort and pleasure does bring to women that hath such a pretty fine thing , Called a dill doul , dill doul dill doul doul , then happy were I , etc Last week I walked in the Strand , I met with my Sister a handsome Lass , I kindly took her by the hand , this question of her I did ask ; Whither she kept still a Maiden alone , or whither her maidenhead was fled or gone For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul doul , Oh happy were , etc The Second Part , to the same Tune . K Ind sister , quoth she to tell you the truth , it has been gone this twelve months day I freely gave it to a handsome youth , that used with me to sport and play : To grieve for the loss of it I never shall if I had ten thousand I would give um all For a dill doul dill doul , dil doul doul , Oh my , etc She making this answer I bid her adieu and told her I could no longer stay , I let go her hand and I straight left the Strand and to Covent-Garden I hasted away : Where lively young gallants do use to resort , to pick up young lasses & amp ; show they fine sport WIth a dil doul , dil doul , dil doul doul , yet none , etc I would id'e a sweet heart as some Maids have that little know how do pleasure a man , I'de keep him frolicsome , gallant and brave and make as much on him as any one can : Before any good thing he should lack , i'll fell all my Coats & amp ; Smock from my back For his dil doul , dil doul , dill doul doul , then happy were , etc Thus youngmen have I declared in brief , the causes of my sorrow and woe , And if any of you will yield me relief ; speak cheerfully to me say , yea or no : I live at the sign of the Cup and the Can , and I will be loving to any young man For his dil doul , dil doul , dill doul doul , and all my , etc Beside young men I have store of money , good read Gold and Silver bright , And he shall be Master of every penny , that marries with me and yields me delight For why tother night I herd my dame Nancy declare how her Master did tickle her fancy With his dill doul dill doul dill doul doul , then what ever it cost me i'll have a dil doul Then come to me my bonny Lad , while I am in the prime I pray And take a good bargain while it is to be had , and too not linger your time away It's money you see makes many a man rich : then come along , rub on the place that does itch For a dill doul , dil doul , dil doul doul take all my money , give me a dill doul . FINIS . Printed for J. Wiight , J. Clark , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . The Maids Complaint For want of a Dil doul . This Girl long time had in a sickness been , Which many maids do call the sickness green : I wish she may some comfort find poor Soul And have her belly filled with a Dil doul . To a New Tune , called the Dil doul ; or Women and Wine . Y Oung men give ear to me a while if you to merriment are inclined , And i'll tell you a story shall make you to smile of late done by a woman kind : And as she went musing all alone I herd her to sighs , to sob and make moan F or a dill doul , dil doul , dil doul doul , ( quoth she ) I'm undone if I hant a dil doul For I am a Maid and a very good Maid , and sixteen years of age am I , And fain would I part with my Maidenhead if any good fellow would with me lie : But none to me ever yet proffered such love , as to lie by my side and give me a shove With his dil doul , dill doul , dil doul , Oh happy were I , etc At night when I do go to bed thinking for to take my rest , Strange fancies comes in my head I pray for that which I love best : For it is a comfort and pleasure does bring to women that hath such a pretty fine thing , Called a dill doul , dill doul dill doul doul , then happy were I , etc Last week I walked in the Strand , I met with my Sister a handsome Lass , I kindly took her by the hand , this question of her I did ask ; Whither she kept still a Maiden alone , or whither her maidenhead was fled or gone For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul doul , Oh happy were , etc The Second Part , to the same Tune . K Ind sister , quoth she to tell you the truth , it has been gone this twelve months day I freely gave it to a handsome youth , that used with me to sport and play : To grieve for the loss of it I never shall if I had ten thousand I would give um all For a dill doul dill doul , dil doul doul , Oh my , etc She making this answer I bid her adieu and told her I could no longer stay , I let go her hand and I straight left the Strand and to Covent-Garden I hasted away : Where lively young gallants do use to resort , to pick up young lasses & amp ; show they fine sport WIth a dil doul , dil doul , dil doul doul , yet none , etc I would id'e a sweet heart as some Maids have that little know how do pleasure a man , I'de keep him frolicsome , gallant and brave and make as much on him as any one can : Before any good thing he should lack , i'll fell all my Coats & amp ; Smock from my back For his dil doul , dil doul , dill doul doul , then happy were , etc Thus youngmen have I declared in brief , the causes of my sorrow and woe , And if any of you will yield me relief ; speak cheerfully to me say , yea or no : I live at the sign of the Cup and the Can , and I will be loving to any young man For his dil doul , dil doul , dill doul doul , and all my , etc Beside young men I have store of money , good read Gold and Silver bright , And he shall be Master of every penny , that marries with me and yields me delight For why tother night I herd my dame Nancy declare how her Master did tickle her fancy With his dill doul dill doul dill doul doul , then what ever it cost me i'll have a dil doul Then come to me my bonny Lad , while I am in the prime I pray And take a good bargain while it is to be had , and too not linger your time away It's money you see makes many a man rich : then come along , rub on the place that does itch For a dill doul , dil doul , dil doul doul take all my money , give me a dill doul . FINIS . Printed for J. Wiight , J. Clark , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 