The true Lovers Happiness Or , Nothing venture , nothing have . Showing how and Apprentice made bold to court his Master's Daughter , god her good will , and married her unknown to her Parents , yet afterwards her Father seeing they loved each other so entirely , he gave them a con - siderable portion of money to set up with , and now they live in a happy condition ; this may serve for a pattern for others . Their compliments to you I will rehearse According as they are printed down in verse . Tune of , Amintas on the new-made Hay , or Loyal Lovers . man . O H my dearest come away , and harken what thy love does say As I am here I vow and swear I kindly will embrace thee ; Thou need not fear my only dear that I shall e'r disgrace thee . I'll be as honest as the day , thy Virtues I will not bewray , No face alive shall ever deprive me of my dearest jewel , If thou deny I sure shall die , then be not thou so cruel . Many years I loved thee , therefore dearest pity me , Thy very frown does cast me down , thy smiles again revive me : Thou hast my heart wherever thou art then don't of love deprive me . maid . O fie thou simple Prentice boy , how durst thou with me tick & amp ; toy ? Or be so bold this to unfold unto thy master's Daughter ? If he should know , iT would breed thy woe , then what will follow after . I am my Father's own delight This you may understand aright , No Daughter he hath else but me , which makes him highly prize me ; Therefore be mute , leave off thy suit I friendly do advice thee . My Father's anger pray you shun , lest you are utterly undone , The prison-grate will be your fate , if you run such adventures , Beside all this , if maids you kiss you forfeit your indentures . man . Prithee dearest do not flout , At Easter next my time is out , And then I swear I will not care for master nor such Histories : But a wife i'll have my life to save , and you're my only mistress . Blame me not for saying so , For love will creep where it cannot go Had I not spoke , my heart had broke I could endure no longer : Though I did fight both day & amp ; night yet Cupid grew the stronger . Methinks I see thy lovely face AS I do walk in any place , Thy crystal eyes where Cupid lies , thy cheeks are like to Roses : Thy lips are sweet , when as we meet all virtue there incloses . Though I am poor and thou art rich Slight me not I thee beseech , You know my trade will keep a maid as well as yeoman Jarvis , If I get Pearl my dearest Girl , it shall be at thy service . maid . Thy speeches I do much commend , Yet dare I not to condescend For fear I loose as I suppose my father's dear affection , Or else i'd yield to you the field , if I night have my election . man . Never stand to compliment , This does give me no content , Though father frown & amp ; mother frown , yet none of them shall rout me , I am not in jest I do protest I cannot live without thee . Thus he gained the Damsels love , And honest to her he did prove , He wedded her and bedded her although his Master's Daughter : He pleaseed her well the truth to tell , and parents love came after . For they gave them eightscore pound whereby this couples joys were crowned Thus may you see in each degree this youth was well befriended , They live in peace , their goods increase and thus my Song is ended . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The true Lovers Happiness Or , Nothing venture , nothing have . Showing how and Apprentice made bold to court his Master's Daughter , god her good will , and married her unknown to her Parents , yet afterwards her Father seeing they loved each other so entirely , he gave them a con - siderable portion of money to set up with , and now they live in a happy condition ; this may serve for a pattern for others . Their compliments to you I will rehearse According as they are printed down in verse . Tune of , Amintas on the new-made Hay , or Loyal Lovers . man . O H my dearest come away , and harken what thy love does say As I am here I vow and swear I kindly will embrace thee ; Thou need not fear my only dear that I shall e'r disgrace thee . I'll be as honest as the day , thy Virtues I will not bewray , No face alive shall ever deprive me of my dearest jewel , If thou deny I sure shall die , then be not thou so cruel . Many years I loved thee , therefore dearest pity me , Thy very frown does cast me down , thy smiles again revive me : Thou hast my heart wherever thou art then don't of love deprive me . maid . O fie thou simple Prentice boy , how durst thou with me tick & amp ; toy ? Or be so bold this to unfold unto thy master's Daughter ? If he should know , iT would breed thy woe , then what will follow after . I am my Father's own delight This you may understand aright , No Daughter he hath else but me , which makes him highly prize me ; Therefore be mute , leave off thy suit I friendly do advice thee . My Father's anger pray you shun , lest you are utterly undone , The prison-grate will be your fate , if you run such adventures , Beside all this , if maids you kiss you forfeit your indentures . man . Prithee dearest do not flout , At Easter next my time is out , And then I swear I will not care for master nor such Histories : But a wife i'll have my life to save , and you're my only mistress . Blame me not for saying so , For love will creep where it cannot go Had I not spoke , my heart had broke I could endure no longer : Though I did fight both day & amp ; night yet Cupid grew the stronger . Methinks I see thy lovely face AS I do walk in any place , Thy crystal eyes where Cupid lies , thy cheeks are like to Roses : Thy lips are sweet , when as we meet all virtue there incloses . Though I am poor and thou art rich Slight me not I thee beseech , You know my trade will keep a maid as well as yeoman Jarvis , If I get Pearl my dearest Girl , it shall be at thy service . maid . Thy speeches I do much commend , Yet dare I not to condescend For fear I loose as I suppose my father's dear affection , Or else i'd yield to you the field , if I night have my election . man . Never stand to compliment , This does give me no content , Though father frown & amp ; mother frown , yet none of them shall rout me , I am not in jest I do protest I cannot live without thee . Thus he gained the Damsels love , And honest to her he did prove , He wedded her and bedded her although his Master's Daughter : He pleaseed her well the truth to tell , and parents love came after . For they gave them eightscore pound whereby this couples joys were crowned Thus may you see in each degree this youth was well befriended , They live in peace , their goods increase and thus my Song is ended . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 