The Faithful Maid , and the Faithless Young Man. This young man Wooed a Maiden fair , Till he had brought her to Despair : He proved so disloyal in every thing , That caused her this song to sing . And wishes Maidens all a row To take heed of false tongues where e'r they go . To a New Tune , Or the Pinked Petty-coat . With Allowance . by J. Wade . I Once love a Man , and I loved him dear , But now he is gone and i'm never the near ; He sure has took another and left me alone , Which makes me lament and bewail my sad moan : Yet through the deep Ocean I would swim like a Swan , And all for the love that I bear to the Man. If he to his promise had stood firm and fast , I should a been faithful while breath did last ; But he does prove disloyal now I do find , And like to the weathercock turns with the wind : Yet through the deep Ocean I would , & amp ; c . I never thought such a smooth tongue as he Would e'r a dealt so unkindly by me , The sweet pleasant words he then to me gave W hich made me to think he would never prove a Knave : Yet through , etc But a Proverb there is and to true I it find , No sooner out of sighed but strait out of mind : So crafty and so cunning are all these young men A maid cannot trust no , not one among ten : Yet through the deep Ocean I would swim like a Swan And all for the love that I bear to the Man. Yet through , etc TO herefore young maids had best have a care lest in the conclusion their caught in a snare : Trust neighbour nor stranger wherever they be For Marriage is not like unto Liberty . Yet through the deep , etc For at first they will feed you with words so fine , And tell you with Dainties you shall sup and dine : But when they have wone you and brought you to their bow , Then they will leave you in the midst of all your woo : Yet through , etc So false and deceitful my Love proves to me , That vowed and protested how faithful he'd be : But so soon as he'd wone me he left me forlorn To rue the time that ever I was born : Yet i'll spend all my Bracelets , my Hood and my Fan , And eke all my Portion but I will have the Man. Cupid I prithee lend me thy Dart And help me to aim just right at his heart : Rather then another shall lie by his side For he can't deny but that I am his Bride : And through , etc Was my heart out on's bosom as it was before , I'ld make and Oath it should never come in it more : But that fair Face of his and his curled Hair It will break my Heart and kill me with Despair . Thus while other maidens are free from all care I am bound in fetters and kept in a snare , W orse then the Boars that in Cottages do dwell , W hich makes me to wish they might ring my passing-bell , Yet through , etc But heart sure is harder then is the stone , That can laugh and be merry while I make this moan : W hilst he sits and sings , my heart is full of woe To think of the sorrow that he hath brought me to . Yet , etc Yet if that another true Love he hath god , If ever to see her it should be my lot , i'l pluck a Crow with her him for to win , Although she be twice bigger I valve it not a pin . For through , etc But i'm not the first I very much do fear That this false Lover has brought to Despair : For he that wooes so many will never stand firm and fast , But for all his craft and cunning he may be caught at last . Yet , etc So farewell Unkind one , for evermore adue , I hope for to find one will prove more true ; Thou hast been so Disloyal unto every one , Thoult never be beloved thou hast such a false tongue : Yet through the deep , etc Printed for F. Coals , T. Veres , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Faithful Maid , and the Faithless Young Man. This young man Wooed a Maiden fair , Till he had brought her to Despair : He proved so disloyal in every thing , That caused her this song to sing . And wishes Maidens all a row To take heed of false tongues where e'r they go . To a New Tune , Or the Pinked Petty-coat . With Allowance . by J. Wade . I Once love a Man , and I loved him dear , But now he is gone and i'm never the near ; He sure has took another and left me alone , Which makes me lament and bewail my sad moan : Yet through the deep Ocean I would swim like a Swan , And all for the love that I bear to the Man. If he to his promise had stood firm and fast , I should a been faithful while breath did last ; But he does prove disloyal now I do find , And like to the weathercock turns with the wind : Yet through the deep Ocean I would , & amp ; c . I never thought such a smooth tongue as he Would e'r a dealt so unkindly by me , The sweet pleasant words he then to me gave W hich made me to think he would never prove a Knave : Yet through , etc But a Proverb there is and to true I it find , No sooner out of sighed but strait out of mind : So crafty and so cunning are all these young men A maid cannot trust no , not one among ten : Yet through the deep Ocean I would swim like a Swan And all for the love that I bear to the Man. Yet through , etc TO herefore young maids had best have a care lest in the conclusion their caught in a snare : Trust neighbour nor stranger wherever they be For Marriage is not like unto Liberty . Yet through the deep , etc For at first they will feed you with words so fine , And tell you with Dainties you shall sup and dine : But when they have wone you and brought you to their bow , Then they will leave you in the midst of all your woo : Yet through , etc So false and deceitful my Love proves to me , That vowed and protested how faithful he'd be : But so soon as he'd wone me he left me forlorn To rue the time that ever I was born : Yet i'll spend all my Bracelets , my Hood and my Fan , And eke all my Portion but I will have the Man. Cupid I prithee lend me thy Dart And help me to aim just right at his heart : Rather then another shall lie by his side For he can't deny but that I am his Bride : And through , etc Was my heart out on's bosom as it was before , I'ld make and Oath it should never come in it more : But that fair Face of his and his curled Hair It will break my Heart and kill me with Despair . Thus while other maidens are free from all care I am bound in fetters and kept in a snare , W orse then the Boars that in Cottages do dwell , W hich makes me to wish they might ring my passing-bell , Yet through , etc But heart sure is harder then is the stone , That can laugh and be merry while I make this moan : W hilst he sits and sings , my heart is full of woe To think of the sorrow that he hath brought me to . Yet , etc Yet if that another true Love he hath god , If ever to see her it should be my lot , i'l pluck a Crow with her him for to win , Although she be twice bigger I valve it not a pin . For through , etc But i'm not the first I very much do fear That this false Lover has brought to Despair : For he that wooes so many will never stand firm and fast , But for all his craft and cunning he may be caught at last . Yet , etc So farewell Unkind one , for evermore adue , I hope for to find one will prove more true ; Thou hast been so Disloyal unto every one , Thoult never be beloved thou hast such a false tongue : Yet through the deep , etc Printed for F. Coals , T. Veres , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 