The Virgins Constancy ; Or the Faithful Mariner , Who proved most Loyal , though he seemed a Farriner : It's a gallant new Ditty betwixt William and Kathern , Their true loves for young ones may serve for a pattern . To the Tune of , Amarilis . H Ard hap had I , poor harmless Maid , Thus by the Fates to be betrayed , My Loyal Friend , whose constant love , No tortures great could e'r remove , Was forced from me for to depart , Yet he alone enjoys my Heart . My cruel friends incontinent Did work our woe and discontent Cause I was rich and he but poor , They hated him I know therefore , His Love was more than my desert , And he alone , etc When we engaged were by Oath , And plighted had a faithful Troth , For to be married out of hand , But when my Friends did understand , They forced him away to part , Yet he alone , etc They keep me as a Bird in Cage , And make my House their hermitage , With Iron Barrs and Bolts so strong , That we endured double wrong : Which did increase our woe and smart . But he alone , etc Because the Fates had thus decreed , He to the Ocean sailed with speed , Where he remains for my sake , But will no other Sweetheart take : Heavens be thy guide where e'r thou art For he alone , etc The gaping Quicksands would devour My Loyal Friend each day and hour , But heaven protect still and defend , My faithful Love unto the end : That he may play a Lovers part , For he alone , etc But if grim Death hath stole his Life , And hindered me to be his wife , I wish the Finis of my breath , To meet with him although in death : Yet if grim Death had spared his Dart , He shall enjoy my Lovesick heart . M Y cruel Friends who did disturb , True Lovers vows with fatal curb Are Mortuus est , all dead , and I Obtain again my Liberty : Yet live in Prison full of smart , Unless my friend enjoy my Heart . When she had warbled forth this Song , How they had suffered too much wrong , H er Love came home , and stood to hear The maiden sing her solemn Queire , How he was supreme of her heart , Wherefore he thus began his part . His Answer . Arise my Love , open the Door , And bid me welcome to the Shore , Now fortune frowns are turned to smiles I find her breast is full of wiles : Though all things frowns and angry be , Yet I will live and die with thee Thou are alone my Beauty's Star , In thee my joys and blisses are , My thoughts lie rolling with thine eyes , My heart must be a Sacrifice : Unless my dearest Love you'll be , For I must live and die with thee . I've brought thee home most costly things , Rare precious stones , and diamond Rings , Rich Taffities , and Silks so fine , To deck my Love , for thou are mine : As thou art mine , so thine I'll be , And ever live and die with thee . Maid . Is this the voice of my sweet Will ? Whose faithful love is constant still , Then welcome home , what bliss is this That faithful Lovers now may kiss ? In heart I longed thy face to see , That I might live , etc Man. I'm come again , my dearest Kate , Who went from thee through force of hate But now forgetting sorrows past , We may enjoy true Love at last : The Gordion knot in fine to tie , In Love and Peace to Live and Die . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passeng [ er ] and W. Whitwood . The Virgins Constancy ; Or the Faithful Mariner , Who proved most Loyal , though he seemed a Farriner : It's a gallant new Ditty betwixt William and Kathern , Their true loves for young ones may serve for a pattern . To the Tune of , Amarilis . H Ard hap had I , poor harmless Maid , Thus by the Fates to be betrayed , My Loyal Friend , whose constant love , No tortures great could e'r remove , Was forced from me for to depart , Yet he alone enjoys my Heart . My cruel friends incontinent Did work our woe and discontent Cause I was rich and he but poor , They hated him I know therefore , His Love was more than my desert , And he alone , etc When we engaged were by Oath , And plighted had a faithful Troth , For to be married out of hand , But when my Friends did understand , They forced him away to part , Yet he alone , etc They keep me as a Bird in Cage , And make my House their hermitage , With Iron Barrs and Bolts so strong , That we endured double wrong : Which did increase our woe and smart . But he alone , etc Because the Fates had thus decreed , He to the Ocean sailed with speed , Where he remains for my sake , But will no other Sweetheart take : Heavens be thy guide where e'r thou art For he alone , etc The gaping Quicksands would devour My Loyal Friend each day and hour , But heaven protect still and defend , My faithful Love unto the end : That he may play a Lovers part , For he alone , etc But if grim Death hath stole his Life , And hindered me to be his wife , I wish the Finis of my breath , To meet with him although in death : Yet if grim Death had spared his Dart , He shall enjoy my Lovesick heart . M Y cruel Friends who did disturb , True Lovers vows with fatal curb Are Mortuus est , all dead , and I Obtain again my Liberty : Yet live in Prison full of smart , Unless my friend enjoy my Heart . When she had warbled forth this Song , How they had suffered too much wrong , H er Love came home , and stood to hear The maiden sing her solemn Queire , How he was supreme of her heart , Wherefore he thus began his part . His Answer . Arise my Love , open the Door , And bid me welcome to the Shore , Now fortune frowns are turned to smiles I find her breast is full of wiles : Though all things frowns and angry be , Yet I will live and die with thee Thou are alone my Beauty's Star , In thee my joys and blisses are , My thoughts lie rolling with thine eyes , My heart must be a Sacrifice : Unless my dearest Love you'll be , For I must live and die with thee . I've brought thee home most costly things , Rare precious stones , and diamond Rings , Rich Taffities , and Silks so fine , To deck my Love , for thou are mine : As thou art mine , so thine I'll be , And ever live and die with thee . Maid . Is this the voice of my sweet Will ? Whose faithful love is constant still , Then welcome home , what bliss is this That faithful Lovers now may kiss ? In heart I longed thy face to see , That I might live , etc Man. I'm come again , my dearest Kate , Who went from thee through force of hate But now forgetting sorrows past , We may enjoy true Love at last : The Gordion knot in fine to tie , In Love and Peace to Live and Die . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passeng [ er ] and W. Whitwood . 