The LUNATICK Lover ; OR , The Young-Man's Call to Grim King of the Ghosts for Cure . To and Excellent New Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. G Rim King of the Ghosts make haste , and bring hither all your Train ; See how the pale Moon does waste , and just now is in the Wain : Come you Night-Haggs with all your Charms , and Reveling Witches away , And hug me close in your Arms , to you my Respects I'll pay , I'll Court you and think you Fair , since Love does distract my Brain ; I'll go and I'll Wed the Night-Mare , and Kiss her and kiss her again : But if she proves peevish and proud , then a pies of her Love let her go ; I'll seek me a Winding-Shroud , and down to the Shades below . A Lunacy I endure , since Reason departs away ; I call to those Hags for Cure , as knowing not what I say : The Beauty whom I do adore , now slights me with scorn and disdain I never shall see her more , ah ! how shall I bear my pain . I Ramble and range about , to find out my Charming Saint : While she at my Grief does flout , and smiles at my loud complaint : Distraction I see is my Doom , of this I am now too sure ; A Rival is in my room while Torments I do endure . Strange Fancies does fill my Head , while wandering in Despair ; I am to the Deserts led , expecting to find her there : Methinks in a Spangled Cloud , I see her Enthroned on high ; Then to her I cry aloud and labour to reach the Sky . When thus I have raved a while , and wearied my self in vain , I lie on the Barren Soil , and bitterly do Complain : Till Slumber hath quieted me , in sorrow I sighs and weep ; The Clouds is my Canopy , to cover me while I sleep . I Dream that my Charming fair , is then in my Rivals Bed , Whose Tresses of Golden Hair , is on the fair Pillows spread : Then this does my Passion inflame , I start and no longer can lie ; Ah! Sylvia , art thou not to blame , to ruin a Lover , I cry . Grim King of the Ghosts be true , and hurry me hence away ; My languishing Life to you , as Tribute I freely pay : To the [ Eli ] zium Shades I passed , in hope's to be free from Care ; Where many a bleeding Chest , is hovering in the A [ i ] r . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden [ Ball in Pie - ] Corner , near West-Smithfield . The LUNATICK Lover ; OR , The Young-Man's Call to Grim King of the Ghosts for Cure . To and Excellent New Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. G Rim King of the Ghosts make haste , and bring hither all your Train ; See how the pale Moon does waste , and just now is in the Wain : Come you Night-Haggs with all your Charms , and Reveling Witches away , And hug me close in your Arms , to you my Respects I'll pay , I'll Court you and think you Fair , since Love does distract my Brain ; I'll go and I'll Wed the Night-Mare , and Kiss her and kiss her again : But if she proves peevish and proud , then a pies of her Love let her go ; I'll seek me a Winding-Shroud , and down to the Shades below . A Lunacy I endure , since Reason departs away ; I call to those Hags for Cure , as knowing not what I say : The Beauty whom I do adore , now slights me with scorn and disdain I never shall see her more , ah ! how shall I bear my pain . I Ramble and range about , to find out my Charming Saint : While she at my Grief does flout , and smiles at my loud complaint : Distraction I see is my Doom , of this I am now too sure ; A Rival is in my room while Torments I do endure . Strange Fancies does fill my Head , while wandering in Despair ; I am to the Deserts led , expecting to find her there : Methinks in a Spangled Cloud , I see her Enthroned on high ; Then to her I cry aloud and labour to reach the Sky . When thus I have raved a while , and wearied my self in vain , I lie on the Barren Soil , and bitterly do Complain : Till Slumber hath quieted me , in sorrow I sighs and weep ; The Clouds is my Canopy , to cover me while I sleep . I Dream that my Charming fair , is then in my Rivals Bed , Whose Tresses of Golden Hair , is on the fair Pillows spread : Then this does my Passion inflame , I start and no longer can lie ; Ah! Sylvia , art thou not to blame , to ruin a Lover , I cry . Grim King of the Ghosts be true , and hurry me hence away ; My languishing Life to you , as Tribute I freely pay : To the [ Eli ] zium Shades I passed , in hope's to be free from Care ; Where many a bleeding Chest , is hovering in the A [ i ] r . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden [ Ball in Pie - ] Corner , near West-Smithfield . 