The Perjured SWAIN ; OR , The Damsels Bloody Tragedy . You Loyal Lovers now that hear this Damsels Destiny ; Sure can't forbear to shed a Tear at this sad Tragedy : The Tune is , Sefautian's Farewell This may be Printed , R. P. A S I ranged for my Recreation , just as fair Phebus in glory did rise ; I overheard a young Damsel in passion , who bathed her Cheeks with her watery Eyes ; Smiting her Breast , these words she expressed , Oh where shall I wander to find any rest ? My unkind Swain , has left the Plain , and long have I sought him , and yet alas in vain . I never thought you could have been cruel , when you my Person did dearly adore ; Saying , I was your amorous Jewel , and vowed you loved me a thousand times more . Then all the Gold you ever did behold , but I find that passionate Love is soon cold ; When Maids believe , Youngmen deceive , and that is the reason that I lament and grieve . By each false and flattering Story , my heart to love you was easy betrayed ; This has clearly Eclipsed my Glory , and you have Ruined and innocent Maid , Whose bitter cries , now pierces the Skies , while you do both Triumph and Tyrannise Over me here , sharp and severe , for loving so loyal , my Life must pay full dear . H Ere I make my moan to the Mountains , and senseless trees which are here in the Grove , While my Eyes they do slow like two Fountains , sad sighs I send for the loss of my Love : Here I declare , I am in despair , my passion is more than I'm able to bear ; True Love , I find , distracts my mind , Oh Strephon , now tell me , how can you be unkind ? Pale-faced Death come hither and seize me , why should I live here in sorrow and grief ? O , it lies in thy power to ease me , it's thou art able to yield me relief : Here let me have a sweet silent Grave , for that is the boon I desire to crave ; To ease my smart , let me depart , without long delaying , come wound me to the heart . Since my Swain has proved so ungrateful , I here lie wracked on the torments of love ; Surely never was Man more deceitful , he often called to the Powers above To justify , his pure Loyalty , yet he from his vows and his promise can fly ; Here I take on , do what I can , sure there is no Creature so false as wretched Man. My sweet Lambs that are round me a feeding here in this Valley both safe and secure ; While my innocent heart lies a bleeding , you are not sensible what I endure : What heaviness , my Soul does possess , my Pen is not able alas , to express ; Yet soon I'll be from my pans free , for why should I languish in grief and misery . To my Swain my love was entire , and can't forget him long as I live ; Therefore here I do vow to expire , and will this minute the fatal stroke give : The she applied , a Dart to her side , which made a deep wound so that quickly she died : In midst of pain , she cried amain , farewell to the world , and my false & amp ; perjured Swain . F INIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The Perjured SWAIN ; OR , The Damsels Bloody Tragedy . You Loyal Lovers now that hear this Damsels Destiny ; Sure can't forbear to shed a Tear at this sad Tragedy : The Tune is , Sefautian's Farewell This may be Printed , R. P. A S I ranged for my Recreation , just as fair Phebus in glory did rise ; I overheard a young Damsel in passion , who bathed her Cheeks with her watery Eyes ; Smiting her Breast , these words she expressed , Oh where shall I wander to find any rest ? My unkind Swain , has left the Plain , and long have I sought him , and yet alas in vain . I never thought you could have been cruel , when you my Person did dearly adore ; Saying , I was your amorous Jewel , and vowed you loved me a thousand times more . Then all the Gold you ever did behold , but I find that passionate Love is soon cold ; When Maids believe , Youngmen deceive , and that is the reason that I lament and grieve . By each false and flattering Story , my heart to love you was easy betrayed ; This has clearly Eclipsed my Glory , and you have Ruined and innocent Maid , Whose bitter cries , now pierces the Skies , while you do both Triumph and Tyrannise Over me here , sharp and severe , for loving so loyal , my Life must pay full dear . H Ere I make my moan to the Mountains , and senseless trees which are here in the Grove , While my Eyes they do slow like two Fountains , sad sighs I send for the loss of my Love : Here I declare , I am in despair , my passion is more than I'm able to bear ; True Love , I find , distracts my mind , Oh Strephon , now tell me , how can you be unkind ? Pale-faced Death come hither and seize me , why should I live here in sorrow and grief ? O , it lies in thy power to ease me , it's thou art able to yield me relief : Here let me have a sweet silent Grave , for that is the boon I desire to crave ; To ease my smart , let me depart , without long delaying , come wound me to the heart . Since my Swain has proved so ungrateful , I here lie wracked on the torments of love ; Surely never was Man more deceitful , he often called to the Powers above To justify , his pure Loyalty , yet he from his vows and his promise can fly ; Here I take on , do what I can , sure there is no Creature so false as wretched Man. My sweet Lambs that are round me a feeding here in this Valley both safe and secure ; While my innocent heart lies a bleeding , you are not sensible what I endure : What heaviness , my Soul does possess , my Pen is not able alas , to express ; Yet soon I'll be from my pans free , for why should I languish in grief and misery . To my Swain my love was entire , and can't forget him long as I live ; Therefore here I do vow to expire , and will this minute the fatal stroke give : The she applied , a Dart to her side , which made a deep wound so that quickly she died : In midst of pain , she cried amain , farewell to the world , and my false & amp ; perjured Swain . F INIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 