The Distressed Virgin , You that [ en ] joy your hearts delight , And sweet embraces every Night , Pity my case , whose pains are great , and blame my two too Rigid fate . Tune , I am a maid and a very good maid . W As ever poor maid in such a distress , So full of despair and so pitiless , And languish I must let me do what I can , For my heart it is broke for want of a man . I'm twenty years old , & amp ; I think somewhat more And as for my beauty all might me adore , But now I do find Cupid is a Trappan , For my heart it is broke for want of a man . If I had no portion my beauty might do But though I have beauty and much money do I [ woe ] ned get a husband do I what I can , For my heart it is broke for want of a man . Some Sweethhearts I had by whom I set sighed , That called me their love and their chiefest delight now my colour is changed , it is grown pale & amp ; wan For my heart it is broke for want of a man . My foolish denials did make them grow slack , And now silly Creature a sweetheart I lack , But let me seek out for help all that I can , My heart will be broke for want of a man . If it were the fashion for maidens to woe , The world should discover soon what I would do , And I should not need for to look pale and wan , Nor my heart should not break for want of a man But since it's not so , the pain I must endure , No able Physician can find me a cure , Thus I spin out my life though it be abut a span , And my heart it will break for want of a man . When others less fair take their natural rest , With cares and with fears I am nightly oppressed , My senses are drowned and do what I can My heart it will break etc The load of a maidenhead I will throw off , And will to the world no more be a scoff , For though Cupid's a cheat and a perfect trappan , I'll venture my honour to get me a man . I'll play fast and lose and no more will deny , I'll give my consent though they come but to try . For I find it's in vain let me do what I can , If once I say no , for to get me a man . The shifts I am put to the like never was known , For I am forsook and distressed alone , None was so hard set since the world it began , For my heart it will break for the want of a man . Let father and mother both say what they please I'll use my own mind my torments to ease , And strive by all means let them do what they can To banish my pains by the help of a man . My Sister was married at sixteen years old , And many at less , as I have been told , I twenty and upward yet do what I can , My heart it will break etc Come sweethearts or not I will get me a friend , That to these my troubles shall soon put and end , I'll ease my sad heart of these pains if I can , By some means or other isle get me a man . And what if by chance he should get me a child , I'll tell my dear father it came by a wild , And when it is done then help it none can , For my heart shall not break for the want of a man But rather than I shall so suffer disgrace My father and mother will pity my case , For in plain I will say let them do what they can , I cannot survive without use of a man . You maids whose sweethearts do crown you with bliss , I'de think my self happy to gain but a kiss , I resolve to accept the next offer I can , lest my heart it should break for want of a man . Printed for M , Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark [ , ] W. Thackery , and TO , Passenger . The Distressed Virgin , You that [ en ] joy your hearts delight , And sweet embraces every Night , Pity my case , whose pains are great , and blame my two too Rigid fate . Tune , I am a maid and a very good maid . W As ever poor maid in such a distress , So full of despair and so pitiless , And languish I must let me do what I can , For my heart it is broke for want of a man . I'm twenty years old , & amp ; I think somewhat more And as for my beauty all might me adore , But now I do find Cupid is a Trappan , For my heart it is broke for want of a man . If I had no portion my beauty might do But though I have beauty and much money do I [ woe ] ned get a husband do I what I can , For my heart it is broke for want of a man . Some Sweethhearts I had by whom I set sighed , That called me their love and their chiefest delight now my colour is changed , it is grown pale & amp ; wan For my heart it is broke for want of a man . My foolish denials did make them grow slack , And now silly Creature a sweetheart I lack , But let me seek out for help all that I can , My heart will be broke for want of a man . If it were the fashion for maidens to woe , The world should discover soon what I would do , And I should not need for to look pale and wan , Nor my heart should not break for want of a man But since it's not so , the pain I must endure , No able Physician can find me a cure , Thus I spin out my life though it be abut a span , And my heart it will break for want of a man . When others less fair take their natural rest , With cares and with fears I am nightly oppressed , My senses are drowned and do what I can My heart it will break etc The load of a maidenhead I will throw off , And will to the world no more be a scoff , For though Cupid's a cheat and a perfect trappan , I'll venture my honour to get me a man . I'll play fast and lose and no more will deny , I'll give my consent though they come but to try . For I find it's in vain let me do what I can , If once I say no , for to get me a man . The shifts I am put to the like never was known , For I am forsook and distressed alone , None was so hard set since the world it began , For my heart it will break for the want of a man . Let father and mother both say what they please I'll use my own mind my torments to ease , And strive by all means let them do what they can To banish my pains by the help of a man . My Sister was married at sixteen years old , And many at less , as I have been told , I twenty and upward yet do what I can , My heart it will break etc Come sweethearts or not I will get me a friend , That to these my troubles shall soon put and end , I'll ease my sad heart of these pains if I can , By some means or other isle get me a man . And what if by chance he should get me a child , I'll tell my dear father it came by a wild , And when it is done then help it none can , For my heart shall not break for the want of a man But rather than I shall so suffer disgrace My father and mother will pity my case , For in plain I will say let them do what they can , I cannot survive without use of a man . You maids whose sweethearts do crown you with bliss , I'de think my self happy to gain but a kiss , I resolve to accept the next offer I can , lest my heart it should break for want of a man . Printed for M , Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark [ , ] W. Thackery , and TO , Passenger . 