The Crafty MISS of London : Or , The FRYAR well Fitted . To the Tune of , Oh fine Popery . A Friar was walking in Exeter-street , Dressed up in his Garb like a Gentleman neat , He there with a wanton young Lady did meet , And freely did offer , and earnestly proffer , to give her a Bottle of Wine . Love , let us not stand to Discourse in the Cold , My amorous Jewel , I prithee behold , Then straight he pulled out a whole handful of Gold , And said , my dear honey , here's plenty of Money , I'll give thee a Guinny or two . The glittering Guinnies soon dazzled her eyes , That privately straight she began to devise By what means she might get this rich Golden prize , Two is but a trifle , his pockets I'll rifle , I vow to have all now or none . She seemingly Bashful , disputing did stand , And said , I dare not to the Tavern with Man ; But this was to bring him more eagerly on , So that the Old Friar , did burn with desire , and she to his humour did yield . Away to the Tavern they went in all haste , A Glass of Canary resolving to taste , And there the Old Friar he freely Embraced This Lady of pleasure , she aimed-at-games at his Treasure , which constantly run in her mind . The Drawer supplied them with Liquour good store , And when all was out , still they called for more , Her Amorous Charms he did dearly adore , And as they sat drinking , she paid it with thinking , how she might his Guinnies obtain . The Friar to Court her he thus did begin , Sweet Madam step out of these Robes you are in , That I may behold thy white delicate skin , The which will inflame me , sweet creature don't blame me , I'll give you three Guinnies the more . This Lady of pleasure she thus did reply , That Civil Request , Sir , I will not deny , If that you'll strip Naked now as well as I , To which he consented , both being contented , they scampered a while round the Room . While naked they danced at this Frolicsome rate , His Wigg did fly off , and she see his bald Pate , I have and Old Friar , thought she , for my Mate , I think I will fit him if that I can get him to change his Apparel with me . Then straight with a Smile to the Friar she goes , And said , worthy Sir , here's one thing I propose , Let us in this Frolic now change our Clothes . He grants her desire , they change their Attire , she like a Town-Bully appeared . The Friar immediately sets himself down , He puts on her Smicket , her Topknot and Gown , And looked like a Hog-ridden Bawd of the Town , In Ribbons and Laces , but she had her Paces , and fitted the Friar at last . His Clothes , with his Watch and his Guinnies , she god Then made and excuse to go down to the Vault , Yet never came again , but left him all the Shot To pay without Money , his Amorous honey , did [ le ] have the Old Rogue in the Lurch . He found she had left him the Dog for to hold , Then calling the Drawer his Grief to unfold , He had not a penny of Silver nor Gold , Then counting his Losses , his Beads and his Crosses , he never was so [ ? ] imed before . The Drawer he told him the Shot must be paid , The Friar stood quaking , but little he said ; They stripped off the Gown in which he was Arrayed , His Ribbons and Laces , he made sour Faces , to see his most desperate Doom . They found that he was of the Jesuit breed , And one that had been a great Rascal indeed ; Now therefore they sent him to Newgate with speed ; A woeful Disaster , he says Paternoster , but has neither Money nor Clothes . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Crafty MISS of London : Or , The FRYAR well Fitted . To the Tune of , Oh fine Popery . A Friar was walking in Exeter-street , Dressed up in his Garb like a Gentleman neat , He there with a wanton young Lady did meet , And freely did offer , and earnestly proffer , to give her a Bottle of Wine . Love , let us not stand to Discourse in the Cold , My amorous Jewel , I prithee behold , Then straight he pulled out a whole handful of Gold , And said , my dear honey , here's plenty of Money , I'll give thee a Guinny or two . The glittering Guinnies soon dazzled her eyes , That privately straight she began to devise By what means she might get this rich Golden prize , Two is but a trifle , his pockets I'll rifle , I vow to have all now or none . She seemingly Bashful , disputing did stand , And said , I dare not to the Tavern with Man ; But this was to bring him more eagerly on , So that the Old Friar , did burn with desire , and she to his humour did yield . Away to the Tavern they went in all haste , A Glass of Canary resolving to taste , And there the Old Friar he freely Embraced This Lady of pleasure , she aimed-at-games at his Treasure , which constantly run in her mind . The Drawer supplied them with Liquour good store , And when all was out , still they called for more , Her Amorous Charms he did dearly adore , And as they sat drinking , she paid it with thinking , how she might his Guinnies obtain . The Friar to Court her he thus did begin , Sweet Madam step out of these Robes you are in , That I may behold thy white delicate skin , The which will inflame me , sweet creature don't blame me , I'll give you three Guinnies the more . This Lady of pleasure she thus did reply , That Civil Request , Sir , I will not deny , If that you'll strip Naked now as well as I , To which he consented , both being contented , they scampered a while round the Room . While naked they danced at this Frolicsome rate , His Wigg did fly off , and she see his bald Pate , I have and Old Friar , thought she , for my Mate , I think I will fit him if that I can get him to change his Apparel with me . Then straight with a Smile to the Friar she goes , And said , worthy Sir , here's one thing I propose , Let us in this Frolic now change our Clothes . He grants her desire , they change their Attire , she like a Town-Bully appeared . The Friar immediately sets himself down , He puts on her Smicket , her Topknot and Gown , And looked like a Hog-ridden Bawd of the Town , In Ribbons and Laces , but she had her Paces , and fitted the Friar at last . His Clothes , with his Watch and his Guinnies , she god Then made and excuse to go down to the Vault , Yet never came again , but left him all the Shot To pay without Money , his Amorous honey , did [ le ] have the Old Rogue in the Lurch . He found she had left him the Dog for to hold , Then calling the Drawer his Grief to unfold , He had not a penny of Silver nor Gold , Then counting his Losses , his Beads and his Crosses , he never was so [ ? ] imed before . The Drawer he told him the Shot must be paid , The Friar stood quaking , but little he said ; They stripped off the Gown in which he was Arrayed , His Ribbons and Laces , he made sour Faces , to see his most desperate Doom . They found that he was of the Jesuit breed , And one that had been a great Rascal indeed ; Now therefore they sent him to Newgate with speed ; A woeful Disaster , he says Paternoster , but has neither Money nor Clothes . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 