The Noble and Imprisoned PROTESTANTS : OR , A Copy of VERSES on A Young Lord and Lady , now Prisoners in the Castle of Dublin , under the sharp and severe Cruelty of the French and Irish Papists . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . W Hat Protestant can now forbear to shed a true relenting Tear , At the most dismal Grief and Care , of a Renowned Noble Peer , And his fair and Virtuous Lady , within Castle Walls they lie At Dublin City , O it's pity they have not their Liberty ! This Noble Lord of high Renown , and his sweet Lady all alone , While Tears like Fountains trickle down , they to each other make their moan ; Saying , here we are exposed to Room ' s hateful Cruelty , And look each hour they'll Devour both the Lives of thee and me . My Dear , thy fine soft Bed of Down , and Lining too as fine as Lawn , On which to rest we did lie down , with rich Silk Curtains closely drawn , Are turned to a noisome Prison , cold , and kept from Liberty ; My loving Lady , I am ready hear to break my Heart for thee . I wish thou wertenberg in England , where , my Love , thy Life would be secure , Thy tender Nature cannot bear the Hardship which we hear endure : Kept from Food to nourish Nature , and debarred of Liberty , This Winter Season , in a Prison , Love , my Heart will break for thee . The Lady kind and mild replied , Be not concerned for me , my Dear , In thy sweet presence I'll abide , and of thy Sorrows bear a share : There's no Kingodm , Court , or Palace , or the greatest Liberty , Nor , Gold , nor Treasure , yield me pleasure , if I han't thy Company . My very Heart with Grief would break , should I be from thy presence long , In Courts no Pleasure should I take , while thou art in a Castle strong , None but Enemies about thee , to increase thy misery ; What ever betide me , Heaven guide me , Love , I'll Live and Die with thee . That Rude Rebellious , Romish Crew , by whom we were in Prison hurled , The worst that ever they can do , is but to Rob us of this World , Which is vain and transitory ; nothing steadfast here I see , But Heaven's Blessing I'm Possessing , this they cannot take from me . These present Crosses does invite us to a never fading Crown , When as our Souls shall take their flight , above the reach of mortal frown : There's no pains of Purgatory , but all true Felicity ; Let nothing grieve thee , I'll not leave thee , but will Live and Die with thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Noble and Imprisoned PROTESTANTS : OR , A Copy of VERSES on A Young Lord and Lady , now Prisoners in the Castle of Dublin , under the sharp and severe Cruelty of the French and Irish Papists . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . W Hat Protestant can now forbear to shed a true relenting Tear , At the most dismal Grief and Care , of a Renowned Noble Peer , And his fair and Virtuous Lady , within Castle Walls they lie At Dublin City , O it's pity they have not their Liberty ! This Noble Lord of high Renown , and his sweet Lady all alone , While Tears like Fountains trickle down , they to each other make their moan ; Saying , here we are exposed to Room ' s hateful Cruelty , And look each hour they'll Devour both the Lives of thee and me . My Dear , thy fine soft Bed of Down , and Lining too as fine as Lawn , On which to rest we did lie down , with rich Silk Curtains closely drawn , Are turned to a noisome Prison , cold , and kept from Liberty ; My loving Lady , I am ready hear to break my Heart for thee . I wish thou wertenberg in England , where , my Love , thy Life would be secure , Thy tender Nature cannot bear the Hardship which we hear endure : Kept from Food to nourish Nature , and debarred of Liberty , This Winter Season , in a Prison , Love , my Heart will break for thee . The Lady kind and mild replied , Be not concerned for me , my Dear , In thy sweet presence I'll abide , and of thy Sorrows bear a share : There's no Kingodm , Court , or Palace , or the greatest Liberty , Nor , Gold , nor Treasure , yield me pleasure , if I han't thy Company . My very Heart with Grief would break , should I be from thy presence long , In Courts no Pleasure should I take , while thou art in a Castle strong , None but Enemies about thee , to increase thy misery ; What ever betide me , Heaven guide me , Love , I'll Live and Die with thee . That Rude Rebellious , Romish Crew , by whom we were in Prison hurled , The worst that ever they can do , is but to Rob us of this World , Which is vain and transitory ; nothing steadfast here I see , But Heaven's Blessing I'm Possessing , this they cannot take from me . These present Crosses does invite us to a never fading Crown , When as our Souls shall take their flight , above the reach of mortal frown : There's no pains of Purgatory , but all true Felicity ; Let nothing grieve thee , I'll not leave thee , but will Live and Die with thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 