And ANSWER to the MAIDENS Frolic : OR , THE Tailors Resolution to be Revenged of these Petticoat Press-Masters , by Bob - tailing their Gowns and Petticoats for the future , more than ever they have done heretofore . To the Tune of , And Orange . Licensed according to Order . IT IS not long ago , good People you know , Since Six Lusty Maids did a Frolicking go , In Tarpolling Dress , Jone , Bridget , and Bess , Like Lusty stout Seamen they ventured to Press Fourteen Tailors . Now when they were told , these Pressmasters bold , Were none but Six Lasses scarce Twenty years old , The Tailors they swore and their Noddles they Tore , Saying , was ever Workmen so served before , as we Tailors ? Quoth William Westgate , such Frolicks I hate , Why should we poor Tailors be served at this rate ? Jone she did me rake , and my Collar did shake , Then hauled me away like a Bear to the Stake , a poor Taylor . Quoth Anthony Bright , Why didst thou not fight , And put those young Petticoat Sparks to the flight ? Had I been in place then no Female Raze Should never a proved so high a Disgrace to we Tailors . Said Will , had I known , Nan , Bridget , and Jone Had been the Pressmasters , they soon should have sown , For calling my Wife she'd a ended the strife ; But for my own part I never fought in my life , I'm a Taylor . A Night and a Day confined we lay , Although we did often both sighs , beg , and pray , Ralph , Richard , and Ben , and Shon ap Morgen , In all we were Thirteen or Fourteen stout Men , Honest Tailors . Thus were we abused , and cruelly used , For which these young Lasses shall near be excused ; A Counsel we'll call for to punish them all , We'll show them no mercy nor pity at all , as we are Tailors . To this they agreed , and thus they proceed , To summons all Tailors that could Write & amp ; Read , Their Sorrows to note , and give in their Vote , How much silk or stuff should be pinched from a Coat , by the Tailors . Our wrongs to repair , from Garments Maids wear , This must be performed with dexterous care ; It's known to be true , one Yard is our endue , But now in revenge we resolve to take two for the Tailors . Down the the Maypole those Tailors did troule , And there did they meet over a cherishing Bowl , Ralph , Richard , and Ned , these three was the head , They call for Six Pots , & amp ; Twelve dozen of Bred , like brave Tailors . The Court being set , the Tailors all met , Good lack , if the Devil come there with his Net , Of both Rich and Poor he had got great store , They say there was surely three hundred and more , and all Tailors . Then Shon ap Morgen hur thus did begin , Cuds-plutter-a-nails hur believes it's not since , To cousin each Shade which did us degrade , And Cabbage hur knows do's belong to the Trade of the Tailors . They all did agree for six yards to steal three , That these wanton Lasses now punished might be , Welsh Shone's in a huff , said that's not enough Hur means to steal all , and forswear Silk & amp ; Stuff like a Taylor . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Black . And ANSWER to the MAIDENS Frolic : OR , THE Tailors Resolution to be Revenged of these Petticoat Press-Masters , by Bob - tailing their Gowns and Petticoats for the future , more than ever they have done heretofore . To the Tune of , And Orange . Licensed according to Order . IT IS not long ago , good People you know , Since Six Lusty Maids did a Frolicking go , In Tarpolling Dress , Jone , Bridget , and Bess , Like Lusty stout Seamen they ventured to Press Fourteen Tailors . Now when they were told , these Pressmasters bold , Were none but Six Lasses scarce Twenty years old , The Tailors they swore and their Noddles they Tore , Saying , was ever Workmen so served before , as we Tailors ? Quoth William Westgate , such Frolicks I hate , Why should we poor Tailors be served at this rate ? Jone she did me rake , and my Collar did shake , Then hauled me away like a Bear to the Stake , a poor Taylor . Quoth Anthony Bright , Why didst thou not fight , And put those young Petticoat Sparks to the flight ? Had I been in place then no Female Raze Should never a proved so high a Disgrace to we Tailors . Said Will , had I known , Nan , Bridget , and Jone Had been the Pressmasters , they soon should have sown , For calling my Wife she'd a ended the strife ; But for my own part I never fought in my life , I'm a Taylor . A Night and a Day confined we lay , Although we did often both sighs , beg , and pray , Ralph , Richard , and Ben , and Shon ap Morgen , In all we were Thirteen or Fourteen stout Men , Honest Tailors . Thus were we abused , and cruelly used , For which these young Lasses shall near be excused ; A Counsel we'll call for to punish them all , We'll show them no mercy nor pity at all , as we are Tailors . To this they agreed , and thus they proceed , To summons all Tailors that could Write & amp ; Read , Their Sorrows to note , and give in their Vote , How much silk or stuff should be pinched from a Coat , by the Tailors . Our wrongs to repair , from Garments Maids wear , This must be performed with dexterous care ; It's known to be true , one Yard is our endue , But now in revenge we resolve to take two for the Tailors . Down the the Maypole those Tailors did troule , And there did they meet over a cherishing Bowl , Ralph , Richard , and Ned , these three was the head , They call for Six Pots , & amp ; Twelve dozen of Bred , like brave Tailors . The Court being set , the Tailors all met , Good lack , if the Devil come there with his Net , Of both Rich and Poor he had got great store , They say there was surely three hundred and more , and all Tailors . Then Shon ap Morgen hur thus did begin , Cuds-plutter-a-nails hur believes it's not since , To cousin each Shade which did us degrade , And Cabbage hur knows do's belong to the Trade of the Tailors . They all did agree for six yards to steal three , That these wanton Lasses now punished might be , Welsh Shone's in a huff , said that's not enough Hur means to steal all , and forswear Silk & amp ; Stuff like a Taylor . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Black . 