THE Courageous CORONET CONTAINING A Letter from a Valiant Trooper of Flanders , to Susan his Loyal Love , near Limus in England . Tune of , Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . SUsan my hearts delight , and dearest sweating , From Flanders here I write , my true Love greeting ; Do but with patience wait , cease , cease thy weeping , Thou hast my heart , kind Mate , ever in keeping . Two years , and something more , we have been parted , Yet I my Dear adore , and am truehearted : The same shall ever hold , none shall deceive thee , For Diadems of Gold , I'll never leave thee . Yet I must here remain , Love , for a season , Fresh Trophies to regain , it is but reason , That we should face our Foes , in famous Flanders ; My Life I will expose , with brave Commanders . All wronged Nations here , we are for righting , why should I ever fear such valiant Fighting ? While I have drop to bleed , my Life I'll venture , Lewis his Doom we read , as France we enter . King William of Renown , drives all before him , Their Walls he'll batter down , till they restore him Both Towns and Castles strong , the which are many , Why should he suffer wrong by France , or any ? His brave Heroic Brow , craves no Compliance , Having and Army now , which bids defiance To all the Force of France , if need require , Like Soldiers we'll advance through Smoke and Fire . Though they in Valleys hide , we'll march and find they , Charge home on every side , having designed they In field to Fight or fallen , by Martial Power , They must not think they shall Flanders devour . Stout English hearts of Gold , who fears no Nation , With double Courage bold , a Consternation We'll cause among the French , Bombs we will send they , Though they themselves Entrench , that shan't defend ' em . Cannons aloud shall roar , like claps of Thunder , And lay in reeking Gore , Ranks rend in sunder : Thus while we them destroy , we'll Shout and Hollow , With loud Huzza's of Joy , both Fight and follow . Dear Love , the next Campaign , when it is ended , If I alive remain , shall be befriended , To come and visit thee , my Loyal Lover . Where true Felicity thou shalt discover . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Courageous CORONET CONTAINING A Letter from a Valiant Trooper of Flanders , to Susan his Loyal Love , near Limus in England . Tune of , Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . SUsan my hearts delight , and dearest sweating , From Flanders here I write , my true Love greeting ; Do but with patience wait , cease , cease thy weeping , Thou hast my heart , kind Mate , ever in keeping . Two years , and something more , we have been parted , Yet I my Dear adore , and am truehearted : The same shall ever hold , none shall deceive thee , For Diadems of Gold , I'll never leave thee . Yet I must here remain , Love , for a season , Fresh Trophies to regain , it is but reason , That we should face our Foes , in famous Flanders ; My Life I will expose , with brave Commanders . All wronged Nations here , we are for righting , why should I ever fear such valiant Fighting ? While I have drop to bleed , my Life I'll venture , Lewis his Doom we read , as France we enter . King William of Renown , drives all before him , Their Walls he'll batter down , till they restore him Both Towns and Castles strong , the which are many , Why should he suffer wrong by France , or any ? His brave Heroic Brow , craves no Compliance , Having and Army now , which bids defiance To all the Force of France , if need require , Like Soldiers we'll advance through Smoke and Fire . Though they in Valleys hide , we'll march and find they , Charge home on every side , having designed they In field to Fight or fallen , by Martial Power , They must not think they shall Flanders devour . Stout English hearts of Gold , who fears no Nation , With double Courage bold , a Consternation We'll cause among the French , Bombs we will send they , Though they themselves Entrench , that shan't defend ' em . Cannons aloud shall roar , like claps of Thunder , And lay in reeking Gore , Ranks rend in sunder : Thus while we them destroy , we'll Shout and Hollow , With loud Huzza's of Joy , both Fight and follow . Dear Love , the next Campaign , when it is ended , If I alive remain , shall be befriended , To come and visit thee , my Loyal Lover . Where true Felicity thou shalt discover . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 