The Unnatural Mother : OR , The two Loyal Lovers Fatal Overthrow . The Mother she would not agree , he should her Daughter have ; So they did part , she broke her Heart , her Portion was the Grave . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . W Hen first of all I began for to Woo . I loved a Bonny Lass as my Life , And every day I did kindness show , yet never could obtain her to be my Wife . I served her Father for seven long years , I served her Father right faithfully , From morning till noon and from noon until night and all to enjoy her good company . My service and labour I counted as play , for had it been twenty long years and more , I'ld think it as short as a Winter's day , enjoying my Love whom I did adore To her I did often reveal my Love , she gave me her hand , with her heart and all , And proved as true as the tender Dove , I cannot complain of my Love at all . As soon as her Parents did understand that I to their Daughter did bear good will , They studied to ruin us out of hand , and this is the cause of my sorrow still . I talked with her Mother right secretly , but I had no sooner declared my mind , But she locked her up in a Chamber high , and made her a Prisoner close confined . Then under her Window with Music sweet , and many sweet Sonnets I'ld serenade ; There I with my amorous Love did meet , until at the length we were both betrayed . For when her own Mother at length did hear , that under her Window I often came , She Tyrantlike was the more severe , no Mother was ever so much to blame . Her innocent Daughter she took straightway , and bound her with Chains in a Dungeon deep ; Not suffering her to behold the day , but there she in sorrow did sighs and weep . Her Mother afforded her no relief , but let her in showers of Tears lament , My heart it was ready to break with Grief , to think of the Torments she underwent . I being surrounded with Grief and Woe , to think of my true Love's misery ; A Soldier to Flanders I straight did go , I valued not what would become of me . Now while in brave Flanders I did remain , and youthful young Lasses appeared in view ; The thoughts of my Love did increase my pain , and likewise my sorrow and grief renew . Then I took my Musket all in my hand , and cock'd and primed it immediately , And shot a Bullet towards fair England , the place where my Heart and my Love did lie . Soon after I crossed the Ocean main , unto the fair Banks of the English Shore , In order to see my true Love again , for whom I had many Months grieved soar . My Heart was streightways as heavy as Led , as soon as her Father and Mother I see , Who told me their Daughter dear , she was dead , who broke her Heart for the Love of me . O then I was almost in despair , these Tidings did streightways my Soul surprise , I beatrice my Breast and tore my Hair , while Tears they did trickle down from my Eyes . My sorrowful ruin do's now appear , unnatural Parents , I well may say For why , you have Murdered your Darli [ ng ] [ De ] are , which might have lived many a happy day . My Pillow with sorrowful Tears I soak , without her I never can happy be ; Farewell to the World , now my Heart is broke , my Dear , I'll lie down in the Grave with thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Unnatural Mother : OR , The two Loyal Lovers Fatal Overthrow . The Mother she would not agree , he should her Daughter have ; So they did part , she broke her Heart , her Portion was the Grave . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . W Hen first of all I began for to Woo . I loved a Bonny Lass as my Life , And every day I did kindness show , yet never could obtain her to be my Wife . I served her Father for seven long years , I served her Father right faithfully , From morning till noon and from noon until night and all to enjoy her good company . My service and labour I counted as play , for had it been twenty long years and more , I'ld think it as short as a Winter's day , enjoying my Love whom I did adore To her I did often reveal my Love , she gave me her hand , with her heart and all , And proved as true as the tender Dove , I cannot complain of my Love at all . As soon as her Parents did understand that I to their Daughter did bear good will , They studied to ruin us out of hand , and this is the cause of my sorrow still . I talked with her Mother right secretly , but I had no sooner declared my mind , But she locked her up in a Chamber high , and made her a Prisoner close confined . Then under her Window with Music sweet , and many sweet Sonnets I'ld serenade ; There I with my amorous Love did meet , until at the length we were both betrayed . For when her own Mother at length did hear , that under her Window I often came , She Tyrantlike was the more severe , no Mother was ever so much to blame . Her innocent Daughter she took straightway , and bound her with Chains in a Dungeon deep ; Not suffering her to behold the day , but there she in sorrow did sighs and weep . Her Mother afforded her no relief , but let her in showers of Tears lament , My heart it was ready to break with Grief , to think of the Torments she underwent . I being surrounded with Grief and Woe , to think of my true Love's misery ; A Soldier to Flanders I straight did go , I valued not what would become of me . Now while in brave Flanders I did remain , and youthful young Lasses appeared in view ; The thoughts of my Love did increase my pain , and likewise my sorrow and grief renew . Then I took my Musket all in my hand , and cock'd and primed it immediately , And shot a Bullet towards fair England , the place where my Heart and my Love did lie . Soon after I crossed the Ocean main , unto the fair Banks of the English Shore , In order to see my true Love again , for whom I had many Months grieved soar . My Heart was streightways as heavy as Led , as soon as her Father and Mother I see , Who told me their Daughter dear , she was dead , who broke her Heart for the Love of me . O then I was almost in despair , these Tidings did streightways my Soul surprise , I beatrice my Breast and tore my Hair , while Tears they did trickle down from my Eyes . My sorrowful ruin do's now appear , unnatural Parents , I well may say For why , you have Murdered your Darli [ ng ] [ De ] are , which might have lived many a happy day . My Pillow with sorrowful Tears I soak , without her I never can happy be ; Farewell to the World , now my Heart is broke , my Dear , I'll lie down in the Grave with thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 