The Ploughman's Love and Loyalty ; OR , The downright Wooing betwixt honest Harry , and his belo - ved Joan : Two WEST - Country Lovers . To the Tune of I'll often for my Jenny strove Licensed according to Order . S Weet Joan my joy and hearts delight , I have not seen thy pretty face Never since our Mirth last Lammas - night ; o let me freely now embrace , Thee my joy and only jewel , for I'm over ears in love ; And don't deny me , fit down by me , Who will ever loyal prove . I prithee Harry let me go , it is not safe with you to stay ; For youngmen they are false I know , and study Damosels to betray ; Then they glory in our Ruin , crying up their Liberty ; Thus do they leave us , and deceive us , but no Man shall ruin me . Uds-duggers Joan , I'll love thee more , than any lad in Devonshire , These pretty Eyes , I do adore ; and dos thou think I'll wrong my dear ; No , I never will deceive thee , here's my hand believe me Joan , Thy honest Harry , vows to Marry no young Lass but thee alone . Young Joan immediately replied , you may be loyal , just , and true ; Yet should I grant to be your Bride , what have you then to bring me too ? Marriage state , brings care and crosses , when they have not of their own , For they that borrow , meet with sorrow ; this to all the World is known . Love I have neither house , nor lands , nor have I heaps , and bags of gold ; Yet by the labour of my hands , in Sunnner hight , and Winter cold I will use my best endeavour , Joan my Jewel to maintain ; And love thee ever , thou shalt never have just reason to complain . Alas ! quoth Joan , I'm loath to Wed , o , let us stay a while my Dear ; Times being hard , and Trading dead , beside the Winter's drawing near ; Then comes fire , soap , and candle , nay , and House-rent must be paid , A Son , or Daughter , comes soon after ; therefore let me live a Maid . Let no such Thoughts distract thy mind , for as I am and honest Man ; To thee I will be ever kind , and likewise take what care I can To provide for thee my Jewel , and the Wolf keep from the door ; While we this blessing , are possessing , what can we desire more . Here is a Ring of Gold I give this day , my dearest Joan to thee , Never doubt but we may happy live , though by our true Industry Since we are not born to Riches , we must use Industry Our nearest Neighbour , lives by Labour , so sweet Joan must thee and I . With that she gave him heart , and hand and said , since thou dost Loyal prove , No longer we'll disputing stand , this very day I'll grant thee love , And to morrow we will marry , making now no more delay , Well yoked together , we may ever hope to live as well as they . Printed for , P. Brooksby J. Deacon , J. Blare J. Back . The Ploughman's Love and Loyalty ; OR , The downright Wooing betwixt honest Harry , and his belo - ved Joan : Two WEST - Country Lovers . To the Tune of I'll often for my Jenny strove Licensed according to Order . S Weet Joan my joy and hearts delight , I have not seen thy pretty face Never since our Mirth last Lammas - night ; o let me freely now embrace , Thee my joy and only jewel , for I'm over ears in love ; And don't deny me , fit down by me , Who will ever loyal prove . I prithee Harry let me go , it is not safe with you to stay ; For youngmen they are false I know , and study Damosels to betray ; Then they glory in our Ruin , crying up their Liberty ; Thus do they leave us , and deceive us , but no Man shall ruin me . Uds-duggers Joan , I'll love thee more , than any lad in Devonshire , These pretty Eyes , I do adore ; and dos thou think I'll wrong my dear ; No , I never will deceive thee , here's my hand believe me Joan , Thy honest Harry , vows to Marry no young Lass but thee alone . Young Joan immediately replied , you may be loyal , just , and true ; Yet should I grant to be your Bride , what have you then to bring me too ? Marriage state , brings care and crosses , when they have not of their own , For they that borrow , meet with sorrow ; this to all the World is known . Love I have neither house , nor lands , nor have I heaps , and bags of gold ; Yet by the labour of my hands , in Sunnner hight , and Winter cold I will use my best endeavour , Joan my Jewel to maintain ; And love thee ever , thou shalt never have just reason to complain . Alas ! quoth Joan , I'm loath to Wed , o , let us stay a while my Dear ; Times being hard , and Trading dead , beside the Winter's drawing near ; Then comes fire , soap , and candle , nay , and House-rent must be paid , A Son , or Daughter , comes soon after ; therefore let me live a Maid . Let no such Thoughts distract thy mind , for as I am and honest Man ; To thee I will be ever kind , and likewise take what care I can To provide for thee my Jewel , and the Wolf keep from the door ; While we this blessing , are possessing , what can we desire more . Here is a Ring of Gold I give this day , my dearest Joan to thee , Never doubt but we may happy live , though by our true Industry Since we are not born to Riches , we must use Industry Our nearest Neighbour , lives by Labour , so sweet Joan must thee and I . With that she gave him heart , and hand and said , since thou dost Loyal prove , No longer we'll disputing stand , this very day I'll grant thee love , And to morrow we will marry , making now no more delay , Well yoked together , we may ever hope to live as well as they . Printed for , P. Brooksby J. Deacon , J. Blare J. Back . 