THE Good Wives Humble Petition ; Or , The Extravegant Spend-thrift's Thorough reformation , by the prevailing Arguments of his kind and loving wife . Tune of , March Boys . Licensed according to Order . K Ind Husband , the Comfort of my life , in whom I have placed my chiefest joy , Be ruled by thy kind and loving Wife , then shall we our Sorrows soon destroy . The World upon us begins to frown , since thou hast consumed thy Stock of treasure With Reveling Gamesters up and down , which grieves , which grieves me out of measure , Good man , good man , labour to be wiser , Oh let it be thy true Endeavour , Now to Reclaim , and forsake every Game , it's better , Husband , now than never . Five Hundred Pounds , thou knowest , I brought , which thou didst receive on my Wedding day , By Riotous iiving every Groat is wasted , and consumed away ; My glorious state is blasted quite , with sorrow and grief , I am surrounded ; My Eyes they have watered day and night , to see my substance thus confounded : Sweet love , dear love , be no longer cruel , but let it be thy true Endeavour , Now to Reclaim , and forsake every Game , ' this better , Husband , now than never . My sorrows I can no longer hide , my Dearest don't thus to Ruin run , Oh pity thy little Lambs , she cried , thy Daughter and sweet Smiling Son ; Our sorrows , Alas ! are most severe , a sad bitter cup thou hast been brewing , Ah! what will become of us , my Dear , if you should prove our utter Ruin : Sweet love , dear love , let me now entreat thee , to make it now thy true endeavour , For to reclaim , and forsake every Game , it's better , Husband , now than never . If thou willed amend thy life at last , though Treasure be spent , and Lands be sold , I freely can pardon what is past , thy lave it is more to me than gold ; What though I was Genteel bred and born , and was many Hundred Pounds possessing , To labour with thee , I will not scorn , so I may but enjoy the blessing : Dear love , sweet love , now no longer grieve me , but make it still thy true Endeavour , Now to Reclaim , and forsake every Game , it's better , Husband , now than never . Instead of my Robes and Rich Array , which formerly I was wont to wear , Now give me a modest Gown of grey , and that shall content me , I declare ; My Grandeur I never more will mind , farewell to my Jemms , and Rich Attire , Do thou be but loving , good and kind , and that is all I do desire : Sweet love , dear love , now no longer grieve me , but let it be thy true Endeavour , To love thy Wife , and reform thy lose life , it's berter , Husband , now than never . My love , I have herd thy mournful cries , which causes my very heart to bleed , Oh dry up thy melting , melting Eyes , for I will reform my life with speed ; This promise I solemnly do make , that now for my future days ensuing , Bad Company I will quite forsake , for they have almost proved my Ruin , Taverns , Gaming , never will I practice , but make it always my Endeavour , To love my wife , and my L ambs as my life , my dear , it's better now than never . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Good Wives Humble Petition ; Or , The Extravegant Spend-thrift's Thorough reformation , by the prevailing Arguments of his kind and loving wife . Tune of , March Boys . Licensed according to Order . K Ind Husband , the Comfort of my life , in whom I have placed my chiefest joy , Be ruled by thy kind and loving Wife , then shall we our Sorrows soon destroy . The World upon us begins to frown , since thou hast consumed thy Stock of treasure With Reveling Gamesters up and down , which grieves , which grieves me out of measure , Good man , good man , labour to be wiser , Oh let it be thy true Endeavour , Now to Reclaim , and forsake every Game , it's better , Husband , now than never . Five Hundred Pounds , thou knowest , I brought , which thou didst receive on my Wedding day , By Riotous iiving every Groat is wasted , and consumed away ; My glorious state is blasted quite , with sorrow and grief , I am surrounded ; My Eyes they have watered day and night , to see my substance thus confounded : Sweet love , dear love , be no longer cruel , but let it be thy true Endeavour , Now to Reclaim , and forsake every Game , ' this better , Husband , now than never . My sorrows I can no longer hide , my Dearest don't thus to Ruin run , Oh pity thy little Lambs , she cried , thy Daughter and sweet Smiling Son ; Our sorrows , Alas ! are most severe , a sad bitter cup thou hast been brewing , Ah! what will become of us , my Dear , if you should prove our utter Ruin : Sweet love , dear love , let me now entreat thee , to make it now thy true endeavour , For to reclaim , and forsake every Game , it's better , Husband , now than never . If thou willed amend thy life at last , though Treasure be spent , and Lands be sold , I freely can pardon what is past , thy lave it is more to me than gold ; What though I was Genteel bred and born , and was many Hundred Pounds possessing , To labour with thee , I will not scorn , so I may but enjoy the blessing : Dear love , sweet love , now no longer grieve me , but make it still thy true Endeavour , Now to Reclaim , and forsake every Game , it's better , Husband , now than never . Instead of my Robes and Rich Array , which formerly I was wont to wear , Now give me a modest Gown of grey , and that shall content me , I declare ; My Grandeur I never more will mind , farewell to my Jemms , and Rich Attire , Do thou be but loving , good and kind , and that is all I do desire : Sweet love , dear love , now no longer grieve me , but let it be thy true Endeavour , To love thy Wife , and reform thy lose life , it's berter , Husband , now than never . My love , I have herd thy mournful cries , which causes my very heart to bleed , Oh dry up thy melting , melting Eyes , for I will reform my life with speed ; This promise I solemnly do make , that now for my future days ensuing , Bad Company I will quite forsake , for they have almost proved my Ruin , Taverns , Gaming , never will I practice , but make it always my Endeavour , To love my wife , and my L ambs as my life , my dear , it's better now than never . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 