The Lovesick LADY . Being her sorrowful sighs for her Loyal Soldier , whom at length she enjoyed , to her unspeakable satisfaction . TO une of , What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to Order . N Ear a fair Fountain a Damsel sat weeping , and to her Lover she often replied , Thou hast my heart and affections in keeping , yet of thy favours I'm clearly denied : How canst thou ever be so desperate cruel , to flight a Lover with scorn and disdain ? Every slighting adds Flame to my Fuel , that I a Languishing Lover lie slave . Why is my Blooming fair Beauty and Treasure so unregarded ? Ah! how can you slight Those Snowy Mountains and Rivers of Pleasure , where Lovers Angle for Charming Delight ? All that is mine thou shouldst soon be Possessing , could I but once be assured of thy love , But you're unworthy of so great a Blessing since so ungrateful my Strephon can prove . I that have often been Courted by many , is now most scornfully slighted by thee , Others had reason , but thou never hadst any , for thou wast ever right welcome to me , Slave to affection , and thy sweet complexion too much I have been , but now will nor more , In your false love I have made and inspection , whom I of late did so dearly afore . Ah , fair young Beautiful Lady excuse me , think not that ever I could slight such a Saint , But being fearful that thou wouldst refuse me , I never ventured to make my complaint , Though my poor heart has been fatally wounded by the sweet Charms from thy fair killing eyes , Sad sighs and sorrows my senses surrounded , thinking my proffered love you'd despise . When I considered from whence thou descended , by Birth and Beauty a Lady of Fame , Strait I concluded thou wouldst be offended , if the least motion of love I should name ; Love for this reason I was not for Courting , so fair a Creature , and Beautiful Star , Being no more than a Soldier of Fortune , who is exposed to the hazards of War. Tell me no more of Rich Friends nor Relations , my State and Grandeur I feely forsake , That with my love I may range Foreign Nations , in weal or woe there my fortune I'll take : Long by my smiles thou mightest freely discover , that I did prize and adore thee my dear , Therefore when this you did truly discover , tell me how could you have reason to fear . Have not I Courted you , though against nature , what greater symptoms of love would you find , Then be no more and insensible Creature , since your fair Lady to love is inclined then in his Arms he did freely receive her , saying , sweet love thou art welcome to me , With solemn vows that he never would grieve her , but be as Loyal as Lover could be . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Bac [ k . ] The Lovesick LADY . Being her sorrowful sighs for her Loyal Soldier , whom at length she enjoyed , to her unspeakable satisfaction . TO une of , What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to Order . N Ear a fair Fountain a Damsel sat weeping , and to her Lover she often replied , Thou hast my heart and affections in keeping , yet of thy favours I'm clearly denied : How canst thou ever be so desperate cruel , to flight a Lover with scorn and disdain ? Every slighting adds Flame to my Fuel , that I a Languishing Lover lie slave . Why is my Blooming fair Beauty and Treasure so unregarded ? Ah! how can you slight Those Snowy Mountains and Rivers of Pleasure , where Lovers Angle for Charming Delight ? All that is mine thou shouldst soon be Possessing , could I but once be assured of thy love , But you're unworthy of so great a Blessing since so ungrateful my Strephon can prove . I that have often been Courted by many , is now most scornfully slighted by thee , Others had reason , but thou never hadst any , for thou wast ever right welcome to me , Slave to affection , and thy sweet complexion too much I have been , but now will nor more , In your false love I have made and inspection , whom I of late did so dearly afore . Ah , fair young Beautiful Lady excuse me , think not that ever I could slight such a Saint , But being fearful that thou wouldst refuse me , I never ventured to make my complaint , Though my poor heart has been fatally wounded by the sweet Charms from thy fair killing eyes , Sad sighs and sorrows my senses surrounded , thinking my proffered love you'd despise . When I considered from whence thou descended , by Birth and Beauty a Lady of Fame , Strait I concluded thou wouldst be offended , if the least motion of love I should name ; Love for this reason I was not for Courting , so fair a Creature , and Beautiful Star , Being no more than a Soldier of Fortune , who is exposed to the hazards of War. Tell me no more of Rich Friends nor Relations , my State and Grandeur I feely forsake , That with my love I may range Foreign Nations , in weal or woe there my fortune I'll take : Long by my smiles thou mightest freely discover , that I did prize and adore thee my dear , Therefore when this you did truly discover , tell me how could you have reason to fear . Have not I Courted you , though against nature , what greater symptoms of love would you find , Then be no more and insensible Creature , since your fair Lady to love is inclined then in his Arms he did freely receive her , saying , sweet love thou art welcome to me , With solemn vows that he never would grieve her , but be as Loyal as Lover could be . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Bac [ k . ] 