A Looking [ - ] glass for all Good-fellows ; or , The Provident Wives Directions to her Husband : To turn him to be a good Careful thrifty Man to make much of his Wife and Children ; She strives with him the truth is so , A tO last she brought him to her Bow ; Some Women's Counsel if Men take heed God gives blessing with it indeed ; Therefore let Men be wise I say , A and loves their Wives and never go astray . The TO une of Digby , or Packingtons Pound , This may be Printed . R. P. Wife . A Lass my dear Husband , what is your intent I am afraid that hereafter too late you'll repent That you spend your time now so idle in vain That I have great cause now dear Husband to complain You know it so well that I need not you tell , That my Heart with great sorrow is ready to swell : Which moves now my Patience my mind for to speak And to ease my mind lest my Heart it should break . Husband . What ail's you good wife to make this noise and a din It is not your brawling I care for a pin ; Have you a pain in your tongue that it cannot lie still In keeping good Company I must have my will : For pinching and sparing , then let me alone , I must drink with good Fellows , it's very well known If you have maintenance and that which is fitting Sweet wife hold your babble & amp ; pray mind your knitting Wife . But Husband you hear not your Babes cry for bred If I had not took pains they might all have been dead While you wasted your money & amp ; god drunk like a Sot , Your care it was all for the Pipe and the Pot. Dear Husband you hear not your poor Children sad moan Though I work my fingers away to the bone ; Regard , then say , if you be and honest man For I can do no more then another woman can . Husband . Wife what if sometime to the Alehouse I go The worst they can say I am but my own foe , No that is not so ; you are a foe to us all When your Children wants victuals to look o'th bore walls Wife though I have done amiss , I am not the first , Although you do check me and take me at worst , Then prithee with patience speak no more of this , I am no the first , nor I shall be the last . Wife . Dear husband with grief I must tell you again , I speak it as plain as a good woman can . I'ld have you to mind both your Children and Wife , And carry your self like a man all your life : Observe but your neighbours , how they do take pains And at every weeks end they do bring home the gains Like honest good husbands , love does them bind , And to their Wives and Children do bear a good mind . Husband . My neighbours are not my example at all I can get a penny with the best of them all It is nothing to me what my neighbours they do I can spend and be merry and careful also : It is not there Wealth nor the Riches they have Can make them live longer to keep them from grave We brought nothing with us when we came into the World And nothing we shall carry when in the grave we are hurled . Wife . But husband these doings will move a flint stone , Yet say what you will , but it's best to me known : But I ever do find where my shoe does me wring When this idle Courses no profit brings in , And so I am forced to take all the care , Or else I and our Children we hardly might fare For what you get your self is too little for one , You pissed all o'th Wall , and came penniless home . Husband . I thought in this morning some storms would arise , When first you began for to open your eyes And how for to raise them I can find out the way But to lay them again it is hard I do say ; Goodwife then be patient and quickly have done Or else i'll not stay but abroad i'll be gone , This noise does so mad me , I cannot abide Or else loving wife , you shall see my back side . Wife . I that's all the care that you take to provide You are a kind husband , or else your belied For few that are under your charge to maintain , But howevrr you conscience is large died in grain . Away to the Alehouse you here cannot stay I doubt you'll repent it , what I do say To drink and be mad , you do make speedy haste , Pray God turn your heart I do say at the last . Husband . I am glad now Good wife that you are at your prayers I hope we shall see now and end of our jars Pray God keep you long in that mind I do say Your Counsel is good and I will it obey , For I must confess I have been much to blame I cannot deny it I begin for to shame : But since I confess , I pray thee sweet Wife Content thy self now and i'll live a new life . Wife . Dear Husband , I lament your unkindness to me It were better indeed that you ruled would be , And leave of this drinking and mind your own Or else you'll repent when all you have is gone . Dear husband my heart it was ready to break No Woman had never more cause for to speak : But consider my words and bear them in mind Hereafter be loving and not so unkind . Husband . I now am resolved to keep the right way Dear Wife I am sorry I have gone so astray But now for thy comfort all this I do tell It is [ nev ] er too late for to learn to do well ; Though I have been foolish in spending my Coin Then prithee dear Wife let us lovingly join ; Then prithee dear heart come give me a kiss , Let strief and debate have a end now with this . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven a little above St. Andrews Church , Holborn . A Looking [ - ] glass for all Good-fellows ; or , The Provident Wives Directions to her Husband : To turn him to be a good Careful thrifty Man to make much of his Wife and Children ; She strives with him the truth is so , A tO last she brought him to her Bow ; Some Women's Counsel if Men take heed God gives blessing with it indeed ; Therefore let Men be wise I say , A and loves their Wives and never go astray . The TO une of Digby , or Packingtons Pound , This may be Printed . R. P. Wife . A Lass my dear Husband , what is your intent I am afraid that hereafter too late you'll repent That you spend your time now so idle in vain That I have great cause now dear Husband to complain You know it so well that I need not you tell , That my Heart with great sorrow is ready to swell : Which moves now my Patience my mind for to speak And to ease my mind lest my Heart it should break . Husband . What ail's you good wife to make this noise and a din It is not your brawling I care for a pin ; Have you a pain in your tongue that it cannot lie still In keeping good Company I must have my will : For pinching and sparing , then let me alone , I must drink with good Fellows , it's very well known If you have maintenance and that which is fitting Sweet wife hold your babble & amp ; pray mind your knitting Wife . But Husband you hear not your Babes cry for bred If I had not took pains they might all have been dead While you wasted your money & amp ; god drunk like a Sot , Your care it was all for the Pipe and the Pot. Dear Husband you hear not your poor Children sad moan Though I work my fingers away to the bone ; Regard , then say , if you be and honest man For I can do no more then another woman can . Husband . Wife what if sometime to the Alehouse I go The worst they can say I am but my own foe , No that is not so ; you are a foe to us all When your Children wants victuals to look o'th bore walls Wife though I have done amiss , I am not the first , Although you do check me and take me at worst , Then prithee with patience speak no more of this , I am no the first , nor I shall be the last . Wife . Dear husband with grief I must tell you again , I speak it as plain as a good woman can . I'ld have you to mind both your Children and Wife , And carry your self like a man all your life : Observe but your neighbours , how they do take pains And at every weeks end they do bring home the gains Like honest good husbands , love does them bind , And to their Wives and Children do bear a good mind . Husband . My neighbours are not my example at all I can get a penny with the best of them all It is nothing to me what my neighbours they do I can spend and be merry and careful also : It is not there Wealth nor the Riches they have Can make them live longer to keep them from grave We brought nothing with us when we came into the World And nothing we shall carry when in the grave we are hurled . Wife . But husband these doings will move a flint stone , Yet say what you will , but it's best to me known : But I ever do find where my shoe does me wring When this idle Courses no profit brings in , And so I am forced to take all the care , Or else I and our Children we hardly might fare For what you get your self is too little for one , You pissed all o'th Wall , and came penniless home . Husband . I thought in this morning some storms would arise , When first you began for to open your eyes And how for to raise them I can find out the way But to lay them again it is hard I do say ; Goodwife then be patient and quickly have done Or else i'll not stay but abroad i'll be gone , This noise does so mad me , I cannot abide Or else loving wife , you shall see my back side . Wife . I that's all the care that you take to provide You are a kind husband , or else your belied For few that are under your charge to maintain , But howevrr you conscience is large died in grain . Away to the Alehouse you here cannot stay I doubt you'll repent it , what I do say To drink and be mad , you do make speedy haste , Pray God turn your heart I do say at the last . Husband . I am glad now Good wife that you are at your prayers I hope we shall see now and end of our jars Pray God keep you long in that mind I do say Your Counsel is good and I will it obey , For I must confess I have been much to blame I cannot deny it I begin for to shame : But since I confess , I pray thee sweet Wife Content thy self now and i'll live a new life . Wife . Dear Husband , I lament your unkindness to me It were better indeed that you ruled would be , And leave of this drinking and mind your own Or else you'll repent when all you have is gone . Dear husband my heart it was ready to break No Woman had never more cause for to speak : But consider my words and bear them in mind Hereafter be loving and not so unkind . Husband . I now am resolved to keep the right way Dear Wife I am sorry I have gone so astray But now for thy comfort all this I do tell It is [ nev ] er too late for to learn to do well ; Though I have been foolish in spending my Coin Then prithee dear Wife let us lovingly join ; Then prithee dear heart come give me a kiss , Let strief and debate have a end now with this . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven a little above St. Andrews Church , Holborn . 