The Married-mans best Portion : Or , A new Song plainly setting forth the Excellency , and incomparable Worth of a good Wife , as also how much Happiness does continually attend upon that Man that enjoys her . To the Tune of , Fancies Phoenix . A Amongst those worldly Joys , of which Man equally may have their share , Whereof the Poor as well as Rich most commonly possessors are : The greatest happiness I find , Is that which comes from Women kind : There is no comfort in this life , Like to a constant loving Wife . A virtuous women does excel the richest Treasure of the Earth , The who can find her parallel . or fully set her praises forth : She is a Phoenix very rare , She is a Jewel passed compare , There is no comfort , etc That man is happy in his choice who unto such a one is wed , He may with cheerfulness rejoice , because that he so well hath sped , He hath his portion with the best , that with a virtuous wife is blessed . There is no comfort , etc How sweet a sighed it is to see , a married Pair so truly joined In perfect love , that though there be two Persons , yet there's but one mind : Such Couples do enjoy content , And in true peace their lives are spent . There is no comfort , etc A virtuous woman evermore her husbands pleasure does fulfil , S he treasures up his love in store , and always strives to do his will , S he gives consent to what he says , When he commands , then she obeys . There is no comfort in this life , Like to a constant loving Wife . S He uses not abroad to room , among the Gossips idle Crew , But careful is , and stays at home , with diligence her work to do , H er Family she will direct , And give her husband due respect . There is no comfort in this life , Like to a constant loving wife . She's wary , and she's provident ; and often saves what others lose , By right forecasting the event . she well does know which way to choose , Accordingly her course she steers , And daily order her affairs . There is no comfort , etc If that her husband fault does find with any thing that is amisst , As soon as ere she knows his mind , she rests not till it mended is , H is love does all her pains req [ u ] item , And in the same she takes delight . There is no comfort , etc When he with sickness is oppressed , or any ways cast down with grief , S he suffers not her heart to rest , till she hath gained him some relief : When he does mourn , the she is sad , When he rejoices , she is glad . There is no comfort , etc If sometime for a little space , his business calls him forth from home , S he greatly longs to see his face , and often wishes he would come : H is presence gives her full content , His absence she does much lament . There is no comfort , etc S he will not vary in the least from what at first she seemed to be , H er constancy shall be increased , but not diminished one degree , H er husband she hath vowed to love , A and she to him will faithful prove , There is no comfort , etc Thus having set before your eyes , in Characters right plain to read , A virtuous woman's qualities , I wish you now even well to speed , Choose such a wife and you shall see , My words will all fulfilled be , There is no comfort in this life , Like to a constant loving wife . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Married-mans best Portion : Or , A new Song plainly setting forth the Excellency , and incomparable Worth of a good Wife , as also how much Happiness does continually attend upon that Man that enjoys her . To the Tune of , Fancies Phoenix . A Amongst those worldly Joys , of which Man equally may have their share , Whereof the Poor as well as Rich most commonly possessors are : The greatest happiness I find , Is that which comes from Women kind : There is no comfort in this life , Like to a constant loving Wife . A virtuous women does excel the richest Treasure of the Earth , The who can find her parallel . or fully set her praises forth : She is a Phoenix very rare , She is a Jewel passed compare , There is no comfort , etc That man is happy in his choice who unto such a one is wed , He may with cheerfulness rejoice , because that he so well hath sped , He hath his portion with the best , that with a virtuous wife is blessed . There is no comfort , etc How sweet a sighed it is to see , a married Pair so truly joined In perfect love , that though there be two Persons , yet there's but one mind : Such Couples do enjoy content , And in true peace their lives are spent . There is no comfort , etc A virtuous woman evermore her husbands pleasure does fulfil , S he treasures up his love in store , and always strives to do his will , S he gives consent to what he says , When he commands , then she obeys . There is no comfort in this life , Like to a constant loving Wife . S He uses not abroad to room , among the Gossips idle Crew , But careful is , and stays at home , with diligence her work to do , H er Family she will direct , And give her husband due respect . There is no comfort in this life , Like to a constant loving wife . She's wary , and she's provident ; and often saves what others lose , By right forecasting the event . she well does know which way to choose , Accordingly her course she steers , And daily order her affairs . There is no comfort , etc If that her husband fault does find with any thing that is amisst , As soon as ere she knows his mind , she rests not till it mended is , H is love does all her pains req [ u ] item , And in the same she takes delight . There is no comfort , etc When he with sickness is oppressed , or any ways cast down with grief , S he suffers not her heart to rest , till she hath gained him some relief : When he does mourn , the she is sad , When he rejoices , she is glad . There is no comfort , etc If sometime for a little space , his business calls him forth from home , S he greatly longs to see his face , and often wishes he would come : H is presence gives her full content , His absence she does much lament . There is no comfort , etc S he will not vary in the least from what at first she seemed to be , H er constancy shall be increased , but not diminished one degree , H er husband she hath vowed to love , A and she to him will faithful prove , There is no comfort , etc Thus having set before your eyes , in Characters right plain to read , A virtuous woman's qualities , I wish you now even well to speed , Choose such a wife and you shall see , My words will all fulfilled be , There is no comfort in this life , Like to a constant loving wife . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 