Nothing like to a good Wife : Let a Man consider to the end , A Loving Wife is his best Friend ; In sickness and in health I say , She will stick to him night and day , O a Loving Wife , I say give me , And let all Light Huswives Carted be : There's never no Man by them gets good If things be rightly understood : Unwholesome Ware , I say they be And Honest Wife of ones One , for my Money . This may be Printed , R. P. To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . TO Here is many a Man that in England do dwell That loves novelty-meat better than any , one can tell But it can never hold , it will bring all to nought , If the business be searched in and thoroughly sought : They'll say , change of Pasture it does make fat Calves , But change of bad Women will make but lean Knaves : The best way is to let all bad Women alone And every Man be content with his own . What is't for a Man to work and take pains , When his Wife and his Children have none of the gains ; But spend it abroad with those that are bad , I like no such doings it is wondrous sad ; For Whores and bad Women will destroy a whole Mint ; It's neither pleasing to God , nor no credit comes oned : The best way , etc Bad Women has been the ruin of many a man , And many a good Woman by them are undone ; And many poor Children are brought into want , When Men are so given to follow a bad Haunt : For there is too many in the World now all over , Makes many poor Woman have great sorrow to endure , The best way is to let all bad Women alone , And every Man , etc Alas , that a Man should be so overseen To forget his poor Wife , that's so constant to him ! To forget that great Vow that in marriage he made , And to love her so lightly , with so little regard , To mind a Light Woman that's not a good way , They'll never do a Man good in his need I do say , The best way , etc The second Part to the same Tune . I TO vexes a good Wife , and it troubles her mind , To see when her Husband proves so unkind ; To maintain other Women , and let her live in want , It is a displeasing to God , and no good will come oned ; It has undone many a One , I say , to be sure , And Hell and Damnation at last will procure : The best way , etc What is a Whore good for , but bring a Man to a Jail , When his Stock it is wasted , and his goods they do fail ? They'll undo any man , I do say , at the last , If he has not to fee them with money in the fist ; And many a poor Wife is made but a slave , And lies Crying at home , and wants what she should have : The best way , etc There's never and honest man , but he'll be of that mind , His one Wife is the best , and most love he shall find ; If she be and honest Woman indeed , She may see him want , but she'll never see him bleed : If a man stands in need , a Whore is far off , All the good he must look for , is a jear and a scoff : The best way , etc These Silk-painted misses , let a man take great care , They'll empty a man's Pocket and they'll leave him threadbare ; They destroy any man at the last to be sure , With Diseases and Poverty , and what she'll procure ; God help that poor Woman , that has such a man , That will love one of those so much more than his one ; The best way is , for to end the all strife , Is for every Man to love his own Wife . Concluding my Ditty of what we do tell , I wish all mankind they may ever do well ; And hate all bad Women you that are so inclined , And cleave to your own Wives , and be loving and kind : Then God with his Goodness will be on their side , That marries a Wife , and does for her provide : Then defy all bad Women and let them alone , Best way for a man be content with his own . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . Nothing like to a good Wife : Let a Man consider to the end , A Loving Wife is his best Friend ; In sickness and in health I say , She will stick to him night and day , O a Loving Wife , I say give me , And let all Light Huswives Carted be : There's never no Man by them gets good If things be rightly understood : Unwholesome Ware , I say they be And Honest Wife of ones One , for my Money . This may be Printed , R. P. To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . TO Here is many a Man that in England do dwell That loves novelty-meat better than any , one can tell But it can never hold , it will bring all to nought , If the business be searched in and thoroughly sought : They'll say , change of Pasture it does make fat Calves , But change of bad Women will make but lean Knaves : The best way is to let all bad Women alone And every Man be content with his own . What is't for a Man to work and take pains , When his Wife and his Children have none of the gains ; But spend it abroad with those that are bad , I like no such doings it is wondrous sad ; For Whores and bad Women will destroy a whole Mint ; It's neither pleasing to God , nor no credit comes oned : The best way , etc Bad Women has been the ruin of many a man , And many a good Woman by them are undone ; And many poor Children are brought into want , When Men are so given to follow a bad Haunt : For there is too many in the World now all over , Makes many poor Woman have great sorrow to endure , The best way is to let all bad Women alone , And every Man , etc Alas , that a Man should be so overseen To forget his poor Wife , that's so constant to him ! To forget that great Vow that in marriage he made , And to love her so lightly , with so little regard , To mind a Light Woman that's not a good way , They'll never do a Man good in his need I do say , The best way , etc The second Part to the same Tune . I TO vexes a good Wife , and it troubles her mind , To see when her Husband proves so unkind ; To maintain other Women , and let her live in want , It is a displeasing to God , and no good will come oned ; It has undone many a One , I say , to be sure , And Hell and Damnation at last will procure : The best way , etc What is a Whore good for , but bring a Man to a Jail , When his Stock it is wasted , and his goods they do fail ? They'll undo any man , I do say , at the last , If he has not to fee them with money in the fist ; And many a poor Wife is made but a slave , And lies Crying at home , and wants what she should have : The best way , etc There's never and honest man , but he'll be of that mind , His one Wife is the best , and most love he shall find ; If she be and honest Woman indeed , She may see him want , but she'll never see him bleed : If a man stands in need , a Whore is far off , All the good he must look for , is a jear and a scoff : The best way , etc These Silk-painted misses , let a man take great care , They'll empty a man's Pocket and they'll leave him threadbare ; They destroy any man at the last to be sure , With Diseases and Poverty , and what she'll procure ; God help that poor Woman , that has such a man , That will love one of those so much more than his one ; The best way is , for to end the all strife , Is for every Man to love his own Wife . Concluding my Ditty of what we do tell , I wish all mankind they may ever do well ; And hate all bad Women you that are so inclined , And cleave to your own Wives , and be loving and kind : Then God with his Goodness will be on their side , That marries a Wife , and does for her provide : Then defy all bad Women and let them alone , Best way for a man be content with his own . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . 