The Bad-Husbands Folly ; OR , Poverty made known : A man may waste and spend away his store , But if misery comes he has no help therefore This man that brought himself unto decay , Shows other Good-fellows that they go not astray . To the Tune of , Come hither my own sweet Duck . TO O all Good-Fellows now , I mean to sing a Song , I have wrought my own decay , and have done my self great wrong : In following the Alehouse , I have spent away my store , Bad Company did me undo , but i'll do so no more . That man that haunts the Alehouse , and likewise the Drunken Crew , Is in danger to die a Beggar , without any more ado : Would I might be and Example , to all Good fellows sure ; Bad Company did me undo , but i'll do , etc I had a fair Estate of Land , was worth forty pound a year , I sold and Mortgaged all that , and spent it in strong Beer : My wife and friends could not rule me , until I did wax poor , Bad Company did me undo , but i'll do so no more . The second Part , to the same Tune . I Came unto my Hostis , and called for Liquour apace , She saw my money was plenty , and she smiled in my face : If I said fill a Flagon , they set two upon the score , Bad Company , etc I ranted night and day , and I let my Money fly , While my wife was almost dead with grief to hear her Children cry : For they were almost starved and pined , they wanted food so soar , Bad Company , etc At two a Clock i'th morn , I would come Drunken home , And if my wife spoke but a word , I'de kick her about the Room : And domineer and swear , and call her Bitch and Whore , Bad Company , etc Then I fell sick upon the same , and lay three months and more , But never and Alewife in the Town , would come within my door : But my poor wife was my best friend , and stuck to me therefore , Bad Company did me undo , but i'll do so no more . My wife she sold her Petticoat , and pawned her Wedding-Ring , To relieve me in my misery , in any kind of thing : O was not I a woeful man , to waste and spend my store , And let my wife & amp ; Children want at home , but i'll do so no more . When I began to mend a little , I walked to take the air , And as I went along the Town , I came by my Hostisses door , I asked her for to trust me twopence , she denied me like a whore , The money that I have spent with her , but i'll do so no more . As soon as I get strength again , i'll fallen to work apace , To maintain my wife and children , for my Hostesses are base : I see who is a men best friend , if he be sick or poor , Bad Company , etc And when I do get money again , i'll learn for to be wise , And not believe that Drunken Crew , that filled my ears with lies : And carry it home unto my wife , and of my Children take more care , Bad Company , etc He runs a very long Raze , that never turns again ; And brings himself unto disgrace , and has poverty for his pain : But now I will be careful sure , and forgo the Alehouse door , Bad Company , etc Now to conclude and make and end , what I have put in Rhime , That all Good-fellows they may see , to mend their lives in time : And learn for to be Thrifty , to save something up in store , Bad Company did me undo , but i'ie do so no more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The Bad-Husbands Folly ; OR , Poverty made known : A man may waste and spend away his store , But if misery comes he has no help therefore This man that brought himself unto decay , Shows other Good-fellows that they go not astray . To the Tune of , Come hither my own sweet Duck . TO O all Good-Fellows now , I mean to sing a Song , I have wrought my own decay , and have done my self great wrong : In following the Alehouse , I have spent away my store , Bad Company did me undo , but i'll do so no more . That man that haunts the Alehouse , and likewise the Drunken Crew , Is in danger to die a Beggar , without any more ado : Would I might be and Example , to all Good fellows sure ; Bad Company did me undo , but i'll do , etc I had a fair Estate of Land , was worth forty pound a year , I sold and Mortgaged all that , and spent it in strong Beer : My wife and friends could not rule me , until I did wax poor , Bad Company did me undo , but i'll do so no more . The second Part , to the same Tune . I Came unto my Hostis , and called for Liquour apace , She saw my money was plenty , and she smiled in my face : If I said fill a Flagon , they set two upon the score , Bad Company , etc I ranted night and day , and I let my Money fly , While my wife was almost dead with grief to hear her Children cry : For they were almost starved and pined , they wanted food so soar , Bad Company , etc At two a Clock i'th morn , I would come Drunken home , And if my wife spoke but a word , I'de kick her about the Room : And domineer and swear , and call her Bitch and Whore , Bad Company , etc Then I fell sick upon the same , and lay three months and more , But never and Alewife in the Town , would come within my door : But my poor wife was my best friend , and stuck to me therefore , Bad Company did me undo , but i'll do so no more . My wife she sold her Petticoat , and pawned her Wedding-Ring , To relieve me in my misery , in any kind of thing : O was not I a woeful man , to waste and spend my store , And let my wife & amp ; Children want at home , but i'll do so no more . When I began to mend a little , I walked to take the air , And as I went along the Town , I came by my Hostisses door , I asked her for to trust me twopence , she denied me like a whore , The money that I have spent with her , but i'll do so no more . As soon as I get strength again , i'll fallen to work apace , To maintain my wife and children , for my Hostesses are base : I see who is a men best friend , if he be sick or poor , Bad Company , etc And when I do get money again , i'll learn for to be wise , And not believe that Drunken Crew , that filled my ears with lies : And carry it home unto my wife , and of my Children take more care , Bad Company , etc He runs a very long Raze , that never turns again ; And brings himself unto disgrace , and has poverty for his pain : But now I will be careful sure , and forgo the Alehouse door , Bad Company , etc Now to conclude and make and end , what I have put in Rhime , That all Good-fellows they may see , to mend their lives in time : And learn for to be Thrifty , to save something up in store , Bad Company did me undo , but i'ie do so no more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 