A Groatsworth of Good Counsel for a Penny ; Or , The Bad Husbands Repentance . Bad Husbands all , come hear what I have pend , I hope this song to you will be a friend , And let no man now spend his means in waste , I tO brings him into poverty and disgrace , And now bad Husbands hear what I say , And save a groat against a rainy day . To the Tune of Packingtons Pound ; Or , WORSER igby's farewell . With [ tO ] h [ A ] llowance . C Ome hither good fellows and hear what I say , A new song I will sing if you please for to stay And if you will be warned by me , To be careful in time and save your money , Foul Winter's are long , and cold weather is hard And a man without money not one will regard , Let your wife and your children be your chief care , For wring-spiggots care not how hard they do fare There's some are so cunning they'll hold you in play For to get your money , they'll cause you to stay : With so many fine words , and may chance a fine bit While your money does last , she will cause you to fit Until their strong liquour does fly in your face , You are apt a [ l ] l your money then to part with apace , Then the Alewives market is god to a head , while your wife & amp ; children may chance to want bred . If you fell house or Lands or put goods unto sale , If they see you have money you shall not want ale ; For as long as my money did hold out and run , I was bravely respected by every man : But now I do know and I plainly do see , It was more for the love of my money then me ; As long as a man has a coat on his back To [ fill ] in their liquour they will not be slack . This by experience I find to be true , Which makes both my back and my belly to rue , For when I had Gold and silver good store , There would be such bustlings to set me ashore : But I have spent and wasted my store , I may knock twenty times ever they open the door , And if I say I want money , will you trust me a quart Then they say honest friend we'r not trusted Malt. If a man can be wise and consider this Song , It may chance to do him good for to guide him along For spending and wasting consumes a men state , Then he falls into misery and repents when to late But that's not the way as I told you to day , It is the alewives delight to make them their prey The best thing that I know is for a man to take care Then his wife and his children the better will fare , What is a man better to have store of means , And waste it away like butter in the Sun , Then he like a Cow that does fill a great pale , A and after to cast it all down with her heel , But be careful to labour in and honest way Then God he will bless you by night and by day . that man is bewicht that hath a good state of his own A and not be content till it's gone down the read lane . If you drink the very shirt and Coat from your back , If some get your money they care not who lack , And they fit in their Chair in pomp and in state , As long as you have a penny they'll hold you in prate : But if that they see that your pockets are bore , They say honest friend we will fill no more beer : Pray pay your reckoning and go home to your wife , If she chance to look you , she'l led you a bad life . I told you before in a Song I did sing , That winter is long and much hunger does bring , And many a family comes unto want , Where husbands are given to drink and to rant : Therefore it is good to keep something in store , And learn to pass by alehouses door , And think of cold winter , for be sure it will come , If means then be wanting then all are undone . Let old Age and Sickness be a men chiefest care , Be sure it will come , we must all have a share , Then bad husbands will think what they spent in vain pots When they have gone home and made themselves sots ; Is it not then folly for a man to do so , He knows not his friend then I say from his Foe ; He wastes his wit and consumes his estate , And repenteth his folly when it is too late . Now in spending you [ r ] money be not too free , But trust to your se [ l ] ves when you do no [ tO ] see me , And be sure to sa [ v ] e something against a rainy day , Then your own pot at home the better will play : And to your own With [ f ] e and Children be kind , And that will be the pa [ ? ] tO oh [ n ] and h [ oh ] n [ e ] st men mind ; And not sp [ e ] and your moan [ y ] in a drunken crew , Lest they want it at home then the fault is in you . Now in the Conclusion I have a word more to say , Take every one one , and make no delay , The price is but a penny and that is not dear , The best penny worth of wit that you bought this 2 year : And be sure to observe it when you have it at home , It may chance do you good when I am dead and gone ; It may save [ y ] ou [ a ] groat w [ h ] en you would cast it away , For to do you good in a cold winter's day FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden - Ball , in Pye-Corner . A Groatsworth of Good Counsel for a Penny ; Or , The Bad Husbands Repentance . Bad Husbands all , come hear what I have pend , I hope this song to you will be a friend , And let no man now spend his means in waste , I tO brings him into poverty and disgrace , And now bad Husbands hear what I say , And save a groat against a rainy day . To the Tune of Packingtons Pound ; Or , WORSER igby's farewell . With [ tO ] h [ A ] llowance . C Ome hither good fellows and hear what I say , A new song I will sing if you please for to stay And if you will be warned by me , To be careful in time and save your money , Foul Winter's are long , and cold weather is hard And a man without money not one will regard , Let your wife and your children be your chief care , For wring-spiggots care not how hard they do fare There's some are so cunning they'll hold you in play For to get your money , they'll cause you to stay : With so many fine words , and may chance a fine bit While your money does last , she will cause you to fit Until their strong liquour does fly in your face , You are apt a [ l ] l your money then to part with apace , Then the Alewives market is god to a head , while your wife & amp ; children may chance to want bred . If you fell house or Lands or put goods unto sale , If they see you have money you shall not want ale ; For as long as my money did hold out and run , I was bravely respected by every man : But now I do know and I plainly do see , It was more for the love of my money then me ; As long as a man has a coat on his back To [ fill ] in their liquour they will not be slack . This by experience I find to be true , Which makes both my back and my belly to rue , For when I had Gold and silver good store , There would be such bustlings to set me ashore : But I have spent and wasted my store , I may knock twenty times ever they open the door , And if I say I want money , will you trust me a quart Then they say honest friend we'r not trusted Malt. If a man can be wise and consider this Song , It may chance to do him good for to guide him along For spending and wasting consumes a men state , Then he falls into misery and repents when to late But that's not the way as I told you to day , It is the alewives delight to make them their prey The best thing that I know is for a man to take care Then his wife and his children the better will fare , What is a man better to have store of means , And waste it away like butter in the Sun , Then he like a Cow that does fill a great pale , A and after to cast it all down with her heel , But be careful to labour in and honest way Then God he will bless you by night and by day . that man is bewicht that hath a good state of his own A and not be content till it's gone down the read lane . If you drink the very shirt and Coat from your back , If some get your money they care not who lack , And they fit in their Chair in pomp and in state , As long as you have a penny they'll hold you in prate : But if that they see that your pockets are bore , They say honest friend we will fill no more beer : Pray pay your reckoning and go home to your wife , If she chance to look you , she'l led you a bad life . I told you before in a Song I did sing , That winter is long and much hunger does bring , And many a family comes unto want , Where husbands are given to drink and to rant : Therefore it is good to keep something in store , And learn to pass by alehouses door , And think of cold winter , for be sure it will come , If means then be wanting then all are undone . Let old Age and Sickness be a men chiefest care , Be sure it will come , we must all have a share , Then bad husbands will think what they spent in vain pots When they have gone home and made themselves sots ; Is it not then folly for a man to do so , He knows not his friend then I say from his Foe ; He wastes his wit and consumes his estate , And repenteth his folly when it is too late . Now in spending you [ r ] money be not too free , But trust to your se [ l ] ves when you do no [ tO ] see me , And be sure to sa [ v ] e something against a rainy day , Then your own pot at home the better will play : And to your own With [ f ] e and Children be kind , And that will be the pa [ ? ] tO oh [ n ] and h [ oh ] n [ e ] st men mind ; And not sp [ e ] and your moan [ y ] in a drunken crew , Lest they want it at home then the fault is in you . Now in the Conclusion I have a word more to say , Take every one one , and make no delay , The price is but a penny and that is not dear , The best penny worth of wit that you bought this 2 year : And be sure to observe it when you have it at home , It may chance do you good when I am dead and gone ; It may save [ y ] ou [ a ] groat w [ h ] en you would cast it away , For to do you good in a cold winter's day FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden - Ball , in Pye-Corner . 