And ANSWER to the Advice to the Ladies of London . Wherein is set forth a Glance of their Craft and Subtlety : Or , The Fop well fitted by one of their late Stratagems . Behold and see the Subtlety of L [ and ] on Misses , when They can complete a Crafty Cheat , they make a prey of Men . To the Tune of , The Ladies of London , etc This may be Printed , R. P. A S I was Rambling near Temple-Bar , I met with a Lady of pleasure , Her beauty shined as bright as a star , I then was inflamed out of measure , Like a Gallant I to her did go , when first I beholding her glory , But at the length it proved my overthrow , as you may observe by this story , She was perfumed with powder nay paint , did make me her beauty admire , At first she appeared to me like a Saint , I being resolved to try her ; Yet at the first she would not be mine , but threatened to make and Oration , This was a subtle and crafty design , the more to encourage my passion . While we together disputing did stand , I wittily sounded her temper , I clapped two yellow Boys into her hand , at which she began for to simper : Straightway she yielded to be my Mate , then home to her Lodging she hasted . I like a Coxcomb upon her did wait , where I was sufficiently basted . I had no sooner approached the place , with this fair and amorous beauty , But I immediately fell to embrace her , counting it to be my duty : Straight a stout Royster entered the Room , and running upon me most nimble , Crying , you Rascal , death shall be your doom , this made me to quiver and tremble . Now in a sorrowful Snare I was caught , this Gallant did hector and Vapour , I could have given my life for a groat , for fear of a dent of his Rapier : Straightways he seemed to pardon his Wife , because of her humble submission , Yet he continued to threaten my life , I was in a woeful condition . Here I expected I should be destroyed , with blows I was bitterly wounded , There was no way in the World to avoid his Fury , I being surrounded : his Wife and he both fell upon me , they being concluded together , When I discovered my sad destiny , I wished I had never came thither . Seven good Guneas I proffered to give , if he would be pleased to excuse me , But yet he vowed I no longer would live , and then he the more did abuse me . One hundred pound he vowed he would have ; then I of the fray being tired , And being willing my life for to save ; straight granted what ever he desired . Was ever Novis so stradgely trappaned , where kindness I could not have any , But was compelled straight to give him a bound for paying him every penny : This hundred pound I give for a kiss , by which I declare I am undone , now you young gallants take warning by this beware of the Ladies of London . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . And ANSWER to the Advice to the Ladies of London . Wherein is set forth a Glance of their Craft and Subtlety : Or , The Fop well fitted by one of their late Stratagems . Behold and see the Subtlety of L [ and ] on Misses , when They can complete a Crafty Cheat , they make a prey of Men . To the Tune of , The Ladies of London , etc This may be Printed , R. P. A S I was Rambling near Temple-Bar , I met with a Lady of pleasure , Her beauty shined as bright as a star , I then was inflamed out of measure , Like a Gallant I to her did go , when first I beholding her glory , But at the length it proved my overthrow , as you may observe by this story , She was perfumed with powder nay paint , did make me her beauty admire , At first she appeared to me like a Saint , I being resolved to try her ; Yet at the first she would not be mine , but threatened to make and Oration , This was a subtle and crafty design , the more to encourage my passion . While we together disputing did stand , I wittily sounded her temper , I clapped two yellow Boys into her hand , at which she began for to simper : Straightway she yielded to be my Mate , then home to her Lodging she hasted . I like a Coxcomb upon her did wait , where I was sufficiently basted . I had no sooner approached the place , with this fair and amorous beauty , But I immediately fell to embrace her , counting it to be my duty : Straight a stout Royster entered the Room , and running upon me most nimble , Crying , you Rascal , death shall be your doom , this made me to quiver and tremble . Now in a sorrowful Snare I was caught , this Gallant did hector and Vapour , I could have given my life for a groat , for fear of a dent of his Rapier : Straightways he seemed to pardon his Wife , because of her humble submission , Yet he continued to threaten my life , I was in a woeful condition . Here I expected I should be destroyed , with blows I was bitterly wounded , There was no way in the World to avoid his Fury , I being surrounded : his Wife and he both fell upon me , they being concluded together , When I discovered my sad destiny , I wished I had never came thither . Seven good Guneas I proffered to give , if he would be pleased to excuse me , But yet he vowed I no longer would live , and then he the more did abuse me . One hundred pound he vowed he would have ; then I of the fray being tired , And being willing my life for to save ; straight granted what ever he desired . Was ever Novis so stradgely trappaned , where kindness I could not have any , But was compelled straight to give him a bound for paying him every penny : This hundred pound I give for a kiss , by which I declare I am undone , now you young gallants take warning by this beware of the Ladies of London . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 