The wondered Praise of a Good Husband , Or , The Kind and Careful Mother's Counsel to her Daughter . Bad Husbands they , oft run astray , as being most Unkind : But Good we see , will always be of a far better mind . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death ; Or , The Poor Man's Counsellor . WORSER Ear Daughter , i'de have thee to take special care , With whom thou dost Marry , for why , I declare , Bad Husbands occasion much sorrow and grief , It seldom or never affords a Relief : Beside , in their Humours they'll never be controlled , Good Husbands are Jewels far better then Gold . [ S ] ome Men are so wilful they'll spend all their store , [ a ] and say when it's gone , they can Labour for more ; [ TO ] his resolute humour will bring them to know , [ i ] n time of affliction , much sorrow and woe : For Friendship is scarcy , and Charity's Cold , Good Husbands , etc That Maid that shall Wed and Extravagant Man , Although she may Labour and do what she can , Yet all is in vain , for if he does Consume , Yet trouble and sorrow must needs be her doom : Dear Daughter I tell you , I know this of old , Good Husbands , etc Some Women when Married , great Portion have brought , Yet Riotous Husbands their Ruin hath wrought ; For those that will led and Extravagant Life , Regards not the tears of a sorrowful Wife : Their Houses are Mortgaged , and Livings are Sold , Good Husbands are Jewels far better then Gold . TO Oh Gaming , and Hawking , and Hunting they'll Ride , With drinking and feasting with Harlots beside ; Full quickly will squander and waste their Estate , And they may be sorry when it is too late : Lose Living will bring them to want when they're old , Good Husbands are Jewels for better then Gold . When ever a Spendthrift is seen to pass by , There goes a Goodfellow , his Cronies will cry ; And honest true heart too , this , this is their tone , Alas ! he is no bodies Foe but his own : But yet Wife and Children much sorrow behold , Good Husbands , etc Your Alewives they flourish in Silks and black Bags , While poor men , their Clients , are clothed in Rags ; They laugh when they see and old Spendthrift Carouse , Because they do feed of the Sweat of his Brows : But yet they will slight him when ever he grows Old , Good Husbands , etc To speak of their Virtues I now may at large , They'll tender their Wives , and provide for their Charge ; Nothing shall be wanting that they can provide , Both Meat , Drink , and Clothing , with all things beside : Providing in Summer for Winter that's Cold , Good Husbands , etc They , like the industrious be , will delight To Labour , and bring home their Profit at Night : If such a kind Husband you happen to have , Your duty , dear Daughter , will then be to save ; And likewise be loving , not give to Scold , Good Husbands , etc When Wives by their Husbands are dearly adored , No greater a Blessing the world can afford ; In Troubles or Crosses , or what may befall , Good Husbands will still bear a share in them all ; And in their kind Arms their sweet Wives will enfold , Good Husbands are Jewels far better then Gold . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street [ . ] The wondered Praise of a Good Husband , Or , The Kind and Careful Mother's Counsel to her Daughter . Bad Husbands they , oft run astray , as being most Unkind : But Good we see , will always be of a far better mind . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death ; Or , The Poor Man's Counsellor . WORSER Ear Daughter , i'de have thee to take special care , With whom thou dost Marry , for why , I declare , Bad Husbands occasion much sorrow and grief , It seldom or never affords a Relief : Beside , in their Humours they'll never be controlled , Good Husbands are Jewels far better then Gold . [ S ] ome Men are so wilful they'll spend all their store , [ a ] and say when it's gone , they can Labour for more ; [ TO ] his resolute humour will bring them to know , [ i ] n time of affliction , much sorrow and woe : For Friendship is scarcy , and Charity's Cold , Good Husbands , etc That Maid that shall Wed and Extravagant Man , Although she may Labour and do what she can , Yet all is in vain , for if he does Consume , Yet trouble and sorrow must needs be her doom : Dear Daughter I tell you , I know this of old , Good Husbands , etc Some Women when Married , great Portion have brought , Yet Riotous Husbands their Ruin hath wrought ; For those that will led and Extravagant Life , Regards not the tears of a sorrowful Wife : Their Houses are Mortgaged , and Livings are Sold , Good Husbands are Jewels far better then Gold . TO Oh Gaming , and Hawking , and Hunting they'll Ride , With drinking and feasting with Harlots beside ; Full quickly will squander and waste their Estate , And they may be sorry when it is too late : Lose Living will bring them to want when they're old , Good Husbands are Jewels for better then Gold . When ever a Spendthrift is seen to pass by , There goes a Goodfellow , his Cronies will cry ; And honest true heart too , this , this is their tone , Alas ! he is no bodies Foe but his own : But yet Wife and Children much sorrow behold , Good Husbands , etc Your Alewives they flourish in Silks and black Bags , While poor men , their Clients , are clothed in Rags ; They laugh when they see and old Spendthrift Carouse , Because they do feed of the Sweat of his Brows : But yet they will slight him when ever he grows Old , Good Husbands , etc To speak of their Virtues I now may at large , They'll tender their Wives , and provide for their Charge ; Nothing shall be wanting that they can provide , Both Meat , Drink , and Clothing , with all things beside : Providing in Summer for Winter that's Cold , Good Husbands , etc They , like the industrious be , will delight To Labour , and bring home their Profit at Night : If such a kind Husband you happen to have , Your duty , dear Daughter , will then be to save ; And likewise be loving , not give to Scold , Good Husbands , etc When Wives by their Husbands are dearly adored , No greater a Blessing the world can afford ; In Troubles or Crosses , or what may befall , Good Husbands will still bear a share in them all ; And in their kind Arms their sweet Wives will enfold , Good Husbands are Jewels far better then Gold . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street [ . ] 