And ANSWER to the Praise of Good Husbands ; OR , The Dutiful Daughters Fortunate marriage . Her tender Mother she obeyed , who did good counsel give And was resolved to live a maid , while she might happy live , In love free from all care and strife , in this she's not to blame , For now she is a M erchants wife , and lives in worthy fame . To the Tune of , My life and my death . This may be Printed , R. P. G Ood Husbands are Jewels far better then Gold I own it dear Mother , and therefore behold , If ever I marry i'll make it my care , To better my fortune , and likewise beware Of e'ry false hearted dissembling blade , I am not a weary of living a maid . Some Damosels endeavour kind Husbands to get , And often are married before they have wit , This makes them in sorrow shed many a tear , Alas ! it is not for a month nor a year , But ever , and ever , this makes me afraid , I am not a weary of living a M aid . Dear Mother , I have had some Suitors of late , Which flourished in Silks at a Prodigal rate , A Barber , a Taylor , with many men more , I think in my heart there were near half a score : But yet I did slight them , and to them I said , I was not a weary , etc The Barber would give me a Bodkin and ring , And said that I should have a far better thing , Fine Ribbons and Laces on me he'd bestow , But this I refused and answered no : I liked not his humours , and therefore I said , I was not a weary of living a Maid . Then then came the Taylor well stricken in years , In hope's to obtain me he pricked up his ears , I told him for Marriage I yet was not free , And Cabbage and Cucumbers would not agree With my squeamish stomach , and therefore I said I was not a weary of living a Maid . Dear Mother , I prize the good Council you give , If ever I marry as long as I live , I'll do my endeavour to please if I can , Provided I marry a right honest man : Till then I will tarry , you shall be obeyed , I am not a weary , etc Dear mother , a Merchant has courted me so , That I have not power to answer him no , He calls me his Jewel and amorous Girl , Presents me with Diamonds and rich Orient Pearl , with chains of fine Gold he would have me arrayed , I therefore am weary , etc I hope my dear mother I am not to blame , In marrying a Merchant of credit and fame , He has store of wealth to endue me withal , I shall have my Servants to come at my call , In costly Apparel I shall be arrayed , Now therefore i'm weary , etc The fear of ill Fortune is perfectly fled , The time is appointed when we shall be wed , Oh come to the marriage dear mother I pray , For we have concluded upon my birth day , To finish the Nuptials , dear mother , she said , And thus I no longer continue a Maid . Why then , my dear Daughter , thy Portion shall be Full seven Score Guinnys , I give them with thee , And likewise my blessing thou shalt have beside , I thank you dear Mother , the Damsel replied , And though this great fortune I now do obtain , A dutiful Daughter I still will remain . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . And ANSWER to the Praise of Good Husbands ; OR , The Dutiful Daughters Fortunate marriage . Her tender Mother she obeyed , who did good counsel give And was resolved to live a maid , while she might happy live , In love free from all care and strife , in this she's not to blame , For now she is a M erchants wife , and lives in worthy fame . To the Tune of , My life and my death . This may be Printed , R. P. G Ood Husbands are Jewels far better then Gold I own it dear Mother , and therefore behold , If ever I marry i'll make it my care , To better my fortune , and likewise beware Of e'ry false hearted dissembling blade , I am not a weary of living a maid . Some Damosels endeavour kind Husbands to get , And often are married before they have wit , This makes them in sorrow shed many a tear , Alas ! it is not for a month nor a year , But ever , and ever , this makes me afraid , I am not a weary of living a M aid . Dear Mother , I have had some Suitors of late , Which flourished in Silks at a Prodigal rate , A Barber , a Taylor , with many men more , I think in my heart there were near half a score : But yet I did slight them , and to them I said , I was not a weary , etc The Barber would give me a Bodkin and ring , And said that I should have a far better thing , Fine Ribbons and Laces on me he'd bestow , But this I refused and answered no : I liked not his humours , and therefore I said , I was not a weary of living a Maid . Then then came the Taylor well stricken in years , In hope's to obtain me he pricked up his ears , I told him for Marriage I yet was not free , And Cabbage and Cucumbers would not agree With my squeamish stomach , and therefore I said I was not a weary of living a Maid . Dear Mother , I prize the good Council you give , If ever I marry as long as I live , I'll do my endeavour to please if I can , Provided I marry a right honest man : Till then I will tarry , you shall be obeyed , I am not a weary , etc Dear mother , a Merchant has courted me so , That I have not power to answer him no , He calls me his Jewel and amorous Girl , Presents me with Diamonds and rich Orient Pearl , with chains of fine Gold he would have me arrayed , I therefore am weary , etc I hope my dear mother I am not to blame , In marrying a Merchant of credit and fame , He has store of wealth to endue me withal , I shall have my Servants to come at my call , In costly Apparel I shall be arrayed , Now therefore i'm weary , etc The fear of ill Fortune is perfectly fled , The time is appointed when we shall be wed , Oh come to the marriage dear mother I pray , For we have concluded upon my birth day , To finish the Nuptials , dear mother , she said , And thus I no longer continue a Maid . Why then , my dear Daughter , thy Portion shall be Full seven Score Guinnys , I give them with thee , And likewise my blessing thou shalt have beside , I thank you dear Mother , the Damsel replied , And though this great fortune I now do obtain , A dutiful Daughter I still will remain . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 