The Poor men Comfort . Being and Excellent new Composed Dialogue , between a Man and his Wife , drawn up in a Copy of Verses according to the Time , I n which Ditty is con - tained four special matters to be taken notice of , which is as follows : A des - pairing Husband a comfortable wife , the deadness of Trading , and a way to thrive in hardness of Trading , and a way to thrive in hard Times . The Tune is , Fair Angel of England . Man M Y heart is oppressed with sorrow sweet wife , My mind and my senses are each one at strife To see what sad matters are now come to pass , For the World is grown harder then ever it was : The thought of which matter half kills me with care And makes me run frantic and ready to despair . Wife . [ I ] pray you good husband that you'll patient be , [ A ] and in a few matters be ruled by me ; [ I ] ' le find out such ways whereby we may live , [ TO ] oh have of our own and be able to give ; [ S ] hear up thy heart therefore , though now we be poor [ Y ] ou know not what blessings the Lord hath in store Man. [ M ] ethinks wife your tongue runs a little too large , [ Y ] ou know that housekeeping requires much charge [ F ] or Candle , for firing for food and house-rent [ A ] ll these must be paid for , though money be scant : [ TO ] his makes me lie waking while others do sleep , [ W ] hilst rich folks are merry , we poor folks may weep Wife . It grieves me most sharply to hear your sad moan , Yet if you'll be pleased to let me alone , I'll do my endeavour to ease your sad smart , To cherish and comfort your sorrowful heart : If you'll have the patience my words for to hear Each thing in right order shall plainly appear . Man. Then speak thy mind freely ( sweet wife ) unto me , And I will henceforward be ruled by thee : For this I have oftentimes herd it expressed , That women's wits they are accounted the best , Therefore whatsoever you wish me unto , I'll do my endeavour the same for to do . Wife . why thus I would have you keep God in your mind , And to be contented with such as you find : Though trading be dead now and money be scant , God will not long suffer his servants to want : Remember how Job for a season was poor , But God in due time did his Riches restore : Man. TO [ here ] is and old saying , which some do observe , That while grass grows , horses may starve : So fares it with us now , that trading is dead , We cannot get Victuals to put in our head : The labours of poor men are lightly set by , Though rich men do flourish and live gallantly . Wife . But here is a comfort to help us this year , Bred corn it is cheap and good malt is not dear ; A cup of good drink and a piece of good bred , Will serve us to sup with , before we go to bed : For Beef & amp ; for Mutton and roots and such stuff , Let's give God the praise there is plenty enough . Man. If a peck of wheat were sold for a penny , Yet if a man had neither Credit nor money ; In midst of great plenty , he may live and lack , Both food for the belly , and clothes to the back : As Tantalus starved among plenty of meat , So many folks do now for no meat they c [ a ] n get . Wife . Though money be short , yet if God lend us life , Seeing you are my husband and I am your Wife , We'll do like two Birds that are both of one feather Or draw like two Oxen in one yoke together : And by our endeavours I hope we shall thrive , And get means enough for to keep us alive . Man . Wife we have four Children that will cry for bred , We know this that every mouth must be fed : Our Labour is too little our Babes to maintain , Because for our work we receive so small gain , Now tell me how this gear may be canvased about And then we shall prosper we need not to doubt . Wife . though children be young they must bite no the bridle I'll teach them to work , for they shall not live idle : Two of them are able some goodness to do , When I have instructed and taught them thereto : I'll teach my Son TO homas if God give him grace To work at our Trade in a very short space . I'll teach pretty Nanny to Carded and to Spin , Though she do but little , some gain will come in : And for my own part , I will work for the nonce , While the skin of my fingers do stick to the bones : Now let all men judge if we may not live well , By taking of such courses of which I do tell . Man . Why now loving wife , I needs must confess , Your council is good , I can speak of no less And for my own part I will use my best art , In weal and in woe , for to take my wives part : And so to conclude and to finish the strife , Come kiss and be friends , god-a-mercy sweet wife P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P assenger . The Poor men Comfort . Being and Excellent new Composed Dialogue , between a Man and his Wife , drawn up in a Copy of Verses according to the Time , I n which Ditty is con - tained four special matters to be taken notice of , which is as follows : A des - pairing Husband a comfortable wife , the deadness of Trading , and a way to thrive in hardness of Trading , and a way to thrive in hard Times . The Tune is , Fair Angel of England . Man M Y heart is oppressed with sorrow sweet wife , My mind and my senses are each one at strife To see what sad matters are now come to pass , For the World is grown harder then ever it was : The thought of which matter half kills me with care And makes me run frantic and ready to despair . Wife . [ I ] pray you good husband that you'll patient be , [ A ] and in a few matters be ruled by me ; [ I ] ' le find out such ways whereby we may live , [ TO ] oh have of our own and be able to give ; [ S ] hear up thy heart therefore , though now we be poor [ Y ] ou know not what blessings the Lord hath in store Man. [ M ] ethinks wife your tongue runs a little too large , [ Y ] ou know that housekeeping requires much charge [ F ] or Candle , for firing for food and house-rent [ A ] ll these must be paid for , though money be scant : [ TO ] his makes me lie waking while others do sleep , [ W ] hilst rich folks are merry , we poor folks may weep Wife . It grieves me most sharply to hear your sad moan , Yet if you'll be pleased to let me alone , I'll do my endeavour to ease your sad smart , To cherish and comfort your sorrowful heart : If you'll have the patience my words for to hear Each thing in right order shall plainly appear . Man. Then speak thy mind freely ( sweet wife ) unto me , And I will henceforward be ruled by thee : For this I have oftentimes herd it expressed , That women's wits they are accounted the best , Therefore whatsoever you wish me unto , I'll do my endeavour the same for to do . Wife . why thus I would have you keep God in your mind , And to be contented with such as you find : Though trading be dead now and money be scant , God will not long suffer his servants to want : Remember how Job for a season was poor , But God in due time did his Riches restore : Man. TO [ here ] is and old saying , which some do observe , That while grass grows , horses may starve : So fares it with us now , that trading is dead , We cannot get Victuals to put in our head : The labours of poor men are lightly set by , Though rich men do flourish and live gallantly . Wife . But here is a comfort to help us this year , Bred corn it is cheap and good malt is not dear ; A cup of good drink and a piece of good bred , Will serve us to sup with , before we go to bed : For Beef & amp ; for Mutton and roots and such stuff , Let's give God the praise there is plenty enough . Man. If a peck of wheat were sold for a penny , Yet if a man had neither Credit nor money ; In midst of great plenty , he may live and lack , Both food for the belly , and clothes to the back : As Tantalus starved among plenty of meat , So many folks do now for no meat they c [ a ] n get . Wife . Though money be short , yet if God lend us life , Seeing you are my husband and I am your Wife , We'll do like two Birds that are both of one feather Or draw like two Oxen in one yoke together : And by our endeavours I hope we shall thrive , And get means enough for to keep us alive . Man . Wife we have four Children that will cry for bred , We know this that every mouth must be fed : Our Labour is too little our Babes to maintain , Because for our work we receive so small gain , Now tell me how this gear may be canvased about And then we shall prosper we need not to doubt . Wife . though children be young they must bite no the bridle I'll teach them to work , for they shall not live idle : Two of them are able some goodness to do , When I have instructed and taught them thereto : I'll teach my Son TO homas if God give him grace To work at our Trade in a very short space . I'll teach pretty Nanny to Carded and to Spin , Though she do but little , some gain will come in : And for my own part , I will work for the nonce , While the skin of my fingers do stick to the bones : Now let all men judge if we may not live well , By taking of such courses of which I do tell . Man . Why now loving wife , I needs must confess , Your council is good , I can speak of no less And for my own part I will use my best art , In weal and in woe , for to take my wives part : And so to conclude and to finish the strife , Come kiss and be friends , god-a-mercy sweet wife P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P assenger . 