The Joys of Virtuous Love ; Or , And Invitation to the Happy State of Marriage . A Pleasant New SONG , much in Request . This may be Printed , R. P. To the Pleasant New Tune of , Joy to the Bridegroom . J Oy to the Bridegroom , fill the Sky With pleasing sounds of welcome Joy : Joy to the Bride , may lasting Bliss , And every Day prove like to this . Joy to the Bride may lasting bliss , And every day prove like to this . Never were Marriage Joys Divine , But where two constant hearts combine , He that proves false , himself does cheat . Like Sick-Men taste , but cannot eat . He that proves false , himself does cheat , Like Sick-men taste , but cannot eat . True Love on Virtue fixed , is that Which must give Love a lasting State , It's happy Marriage makes us blessed , In that all Earthly joy's possessed . It's happy Marriage makes us blessed , In that all Earthly Joy's possessed . Than that blessed state theres nothing can More soon [ a ] ccomplish happy Man , Who ' midst a thousand transports may Then pass the flying hours away . Who midst a thousand transports , may Then pass the flying hours away : Who then would so unhappy prove , As not to seek for chastest love ? Which far exceeds all we can tell , And to the height our joys does swell . Which far exceeds all we can tell , And to the height our Joys does swell : Let not found fear , nor blushes , fright Lovers , though young , from such delight , But early let them seek their bliss , In the soft Arms of Loves excess . But early let them seek their Bliss , In the soft Arms of Loves Excess : There tender joys they still will find , Where each to Virtue is inclined , And in a thousand pleasures try , What it's in Love to live and die . And in a thousand pleasures try , What it's in Love to Live and Die : What pity it's to sighs and moan , What cruel Fate to lie alone ? When those Joys they may be had , That upon Earth can make us glad . When those Joys they may be had That upon Earth can make us glad , What is a Maidenhead ? ah ! what ? Of which weak Fools so often prate ? It's the young Virgins pride and boast , Yet never was found but when 'twas lost . It's the young Virgins Pride and Boast , Yet never was found but when 'twas lost : Fill me a Glass then to the brink , And it's Confusion here I'll Drink , And he that balks the Health I named , Ma he die young , and then be blamed . And he that Balks the Health I named May he die young , and then be blamed FINIS . P rinted for C. Dennision at the Stationers-Armes within Aldgate . The Joys of Virtuous Love ; Or , And Invitation to the Happy State of Marriage . A Pleasant New SONG , much in Request . This may be Printed , R. P. To the Pleasant New Tune of , Joy to the Bridegroom . J Oy to the Bridegroom , fill the Sky With pleasing sounds of welcome Joy : Joy to the Bride , may lasting Bliss , And every Day prove like to this . Joy to the Bride may lasting bliss , And every day prove like to this . Never were Marriage Joys Divine , But where two constant hearts combine , He that proves false , himself does cheat . Like Sick-Men taste , but cannot eat . He that proves false , himself does cheat , Like Sick-men taste , but cannot eat . True Love on Virtue fixed , is that Which must give Love a lasting State , It's happy Marriage makes us blessed , In that all Earthly joy's possessed . It's happy Marriage makes us blessed , In that all Earthly Joy's possessed . Than that blessed state theres nothing can More soon [ a ] ccomplish happy Man , Who ' midst a thousand transports may Then pass the flying hours away . Who midst a thousand transports , may Then pass the flying hours away : Who then would so unhappy prove , As not to seek for chastest love ? Which far exceeds all we can tell , And to the height our joys does swell . Which far exceeds all we can tell , And to the height our Joys does swell : Let not found fear , nor blushes , fright Lovers , though young , from such delight , But early let them seek their bliss , In the soft Arms of Loves excess . But early let them seek their Bliss , In the soft Arms of Loves Excess : There tender joys they still will find , Where each to Virtue is inclined , And in a thousand pleasures try , What it's in Love to live and die . And in a thousand pleasures try , What it's in Love to Live and Die : What pity it's to sighs and moan , What cruel Fate to lie alone ? When those Joys they may be had , That upon Earth can make us glad . When those Joys they may be had That upon Earth can make us glad , What is a Maidenhead ? ah ! what ? Of which weak Fools so often prate ? It's the young Virgins pride and boast , Yet never was found but when 'twas lost . It's the young Virgins Pride and Boast , Yet never was found but when 'twas lost : Fill me a Glass then to the brink , And it's Confusion here I'll Drink , And he that balks the Health I named , Ma he die young , and then be blamed . And he that Balks the Health I named May he die young , and then be blamed FINIS . P rinted for C. Dennision at the Stationers-Armes within Aldgate . 