The Hasty Bride-Groom . OR , The rarest sport that hath been tried Between a lusty Bridegroom and his Bride . To the Tune of , Bass his Carrier : Or , Bow Bells' . C Ome from the Temple away to the Bed , as the Merchant transports home his treasure Be not so coy Lady since we are wed , it's no since to taste of the pleasure : then come let us be , blithe merry and free , Upon my life all the waiters are gone , and it's so , that they know , where you go , say not no , For I mean to make bold with my own . What is it to me though our hands joined be , if our bodies be still kept asunder : Shall it be said , their goes a married maid , indeed we will have no such wonder , therefore let's embrace , there's none sees thy face , The Bridemaids that waited are gone : none can spy , how you lie , never deny , but say I , For I mean to make bold with my own . Then come let us kiss , and taste of that bliss , which brave Lords and Ladys enjoyed : If maidens should be , of the humour of thee , Generations would soon be destroyed : then where were those joys : the Girls and the Boys , Wouldst live in the World all alone ? don't destroy , but enjoy , seem not coy , for a toy : For indeed I ' le make bold with my own . S Weet love do not frown , but put off thy gown , it's a Garment unfit for the night : Some say that black hath a relishing smack , I had rather be dealing in white , then be not afraid , for you are not betrayed , Since we are together alone ; I invite you this night , to do right , me delight , I s forthwith to make use of my own . Prithee begin , don't delay but unpin , for my honour I cannot prevent it : You a [ ? ] [ ? ] laced , and your Gorgets so fast , undo [ ? ] [ straight ] weigh will rend it ; or [ ? ] [ ? ] e strife , i'll [ ? ] with my Knife , It's too long [ ? ] way till it's undone : let thy [ ? ] tO , be unlaced . and in haste , be embraced , For I do long to make bold with my own . Feel with your hand , how you make me to stand , even ready to starve in the cold , O why shouldst thou be , so hardhearted to me , that loves thee more dearer then Gold , and as thou hast been , like fair Venus the Queen , Most pleasant in thy parts every one , let me find , that my mind , is inclined , to be kind , So that I may make bold with my own . As thou art fair , and more sweet then the air , that dallies on July's brave Roses : Now let me be , to that Garden a Key , that the Flowers of Virgins incloses : and I will not be , too rough unto thee , For my nature unto mildness is prove : do not less , then undress , and unlace , all apace , For this night i'll make bold with my own . When I have found the temperate and found , thy sweet breast I will make for my Pillow , It's pity that we which newly married be , should be forced to wear the Green Willow . we shall be blessed , and live sweetly at rest , Now we two are united in one : with content , and consent , I am bent , my intent Ishis tO [ oh ] night to make bold with my own . The Ladies loving reply . W Elcome dear love all the powers above are well pleased at our happy meeting , The heavens have decreed & amp ; the earth is agreed , that I should embrace my own sweating : at Bed and at board , both in deed and in word , My affection to thee shall be shown : thou art mine , I am thine , let us join , and combine , I'll not bar thee from what is thy own . Our bride-beds made , thou shalt be my comrade for to lodge in my arms all the night , Where thou shalt enjoy , being free from annoy all the sport wherein love takes delight , our mirth shall be crowned , and our triumph renowned , Then sweetheart let thy valour be shown , take thy fill , do thy will , use thy skill , welcome still , why shouldst thou not make bold with thy own . The bridegroom , and bride , with much joy on each side , then together to bed they did go , But what they did there , I did neither see nor hear nor I do not desire to know , but by Cupids aid , they being well laid They made sport by themselves all alone , being placed and unlaced he uncased , she embraced Then he stoutly made bold with his own . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W , Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Hasty Bride-Groom . OR , The rarest sport that hath been tried Between a lusty Bridegroom and his Bride . To the Tune of , Bass his Carrier : Or , Bow Bells' . C Ome from the Temple away to the Bed , as the Merchant transports home his treasure Be not so coy Lady since we are wed , it's no since to taste of the pleasure : then come let us be , blithe merry and free , Upon my life all the waiters are gone , and it's so , that they know , where you go , say not no , For I mean to make bold with my own . What is it to me though our hands joined be , if our bodies be still kept asunder : Shall it be said , their goes a married maid , indeed we will have no such wonder , therefore let's embrace , there's none sees thy face , The Bridemaids that waited are gone : none can spy , how you lie , never deny , but say I , For I mean to make bold with my own . Then come let us kiss , and taste of that bliss , which brave Lords and Ladys enjoyed : If maidens should be , of the humour of thee , Generations would soon be destroyed : then where were those joys : the Girls and the Boys , Wouldst live in the World all alone ? don't destroy , but enjoy , seem not coy , for a toy : For indeed I ' le make bold with my own . S Weet love do not frown , but put off thy gown , it's a Garment unfit for the night : Some say that black hath a relishing smack , I had rather be dealing in white , then be not afraid , for you are not betrayed , Since we are together alone ; I invite you this night , to do right , me delight , I s forthwith to make use of my own . Prithee begin , don't delay but unpin , for my honour I cannot prevent it : You a [ ? ] [ ? ] laced , and your Gorgets so fast , undo [ ? ] [ straight ] weigh will rend it ; or [ ? ] [ ? ] e strife , i'll [ ? ] with my Knife , It's too long [ ? ] way till it's undone : let thy [ ? ] tO , be unlaced . and in haste , be embraced , For I do long to make bold with my own . Feel with your hand , how you make me to stand , even ready to starve in the cold , O why shouldst thou be , so hardhearted to me , that loves thee more dearer then Gold , and as thou hast been , like fair Venus the Queen , Most pleasant in thy parts every one , let me find , that my mind , is inclined , to be kind , So that I may make bold with my own . As thou art fair , and more sweet then the air , that dallies on July's brave Roses : Now let me be , to that Garden a Key , that the Flowers of Virgins incloses : and I will not be , too rough unto thee , For my nature unto mildness is prove : do not less , then undress , and unlace , all apace , For this night i'll make bold with my own . When I have found the temperate and found , thy sweet breast I will make for my Pillow , It's pity that we which newly married be , should be forced to wear the Green Willow . we shall be blessed , and live sweetly at rest , Now we two are united in one : with content , and consent , I am bent , my intent Ishis tO [ oh ] night to make bold with my own . The Ladies loving reply . W Elcome dear love all the powers above are well pleased at our happy meeting , The heavens have decreed & amp ; the earth is agreed , that I should embrace my own sweating : at Bed and at board , both in deed and in word , My affection to thee shall be shown : thou art mine , I am thine , let us join , and combine , I'll not bar thee from what is thy own . Our bride-beds made , thou shalt be my comrade for to lodge in my arms all the night , Where thou shalt enjoy , being free from annoy all the sport wherein love takes delight , our mirth shall be crowned , and our triumph renowned , Then sweetheart let thy valour be shown , take thy fill , do thy will , use thy skill , welcome still , why shouldst thou not make bold with thy own . The bridegroom , and bride , with much joy on each side , then together to bed they did go , But what they did there , I did neither see nor hear nor I do not desire to know , but by Cupids aid , they being well laid They made sport by themselves all alone , being placed and unlaced he uncased , she embraced Then he stoutly made bold with his own . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W , Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 