THE Westminster Wedding : Or , Trick for Trick . When Rogues and Whores together meet , it's pity they should parted be , But taste the bitter with the sweet , which still attends such Company . Tune is , The Winchester Wedding . A TO Westminster was such a Match , the like was never known , A Whore that was painted and patched , did meet with a French-man alone : The French-man was woefully Clapped , and so was the Whore also , He asked if she ever was Tapped , but still she made answer no : The French-man then needs would be doing supposing himself for to ease , At last by his amorous Wooing , he added unto his Disease . He joyed that so soon he had wone her , to grant him his hearts desire , And when he had stoutly done her , she set all his Rigging on fire : The French-man began for to mutter and feared she had served him a trick , For he found himself hotter and hotter , and wished she had been at Old Neck : When he first began for to dally , though 'twas with a wicked intent , But yet this same Brazen faced Molly , did little conceive what he meant . But finding himself out of order , he swore by gar she should die , Before she went any further , for with heat he began for to fry : And she was as notably peppered , to torture her it did begin , She spotted was like to a Leopard , from the sole of the foot to the Chin : At which he did seem to be pleased , and could not but laugh in his mind , Though he was as strangely diseased , as you by the sequel shall find . He told her that she was a Whore , to play such a damnable trick , She told him she knew that before , and then bid a pox of his P ------ For you like a Rogue have beguiled me , I partly do now understand , But cannot well say you have spoiled me , because I was spoiled to your hand : But yet I must tell you Monsieur , you nought by the bargain have god , And I think it will cost you full dear , for meddling with my merry Spot . A pox of your merry Spot then , the French-man aloud he did cry , It's enough for to spoil twenty men , that have no more forecast than I : But yet I believe you will find , your self in a pickled condition , At Kingsland some help you may find , if you draw up a handsome Petition : You must to the Hospital go , if ever you mean to be Cured , For it's such a torment I know , that well it cannot be endured . Was ever poor French-man so served , the Monsieur began for to cry , But yet he said he did deserve it , that with common Bitches would lie : But I do resolve for the future , no flattering Jades to believe , Experience it is the best Tutor , who tells me that Whores will deceive : But yet I am well enough served , that had and intent for to spoil her , And it's not a plague undeserved , because I did think to beguile her . And since such a trick she hath shown me , I think I had best to be friends , If she for a Husband will own me , i'll Wed her and make her amends , A Rogue and a Whore met together , it's pity they ever should part , For it's forty to one if that either , be loyal and true in the heart : So to her he told his intent , how he was disposed her to Marry , Away to the Church then they went , for neither was willing to tarry . And thus have you herd of a Wedding , where pockified couple did Wed , And there was no need of a Leading this Rogue and his Whore to the Be [ worser ] I wish this may be a fair warning , to English as well as to French , That they e'ry day may be learning to despise a bold impudent Wench : He thought at the first to deceive her , and so to leave her in the lurch , But he had not power to leave her , so both were conjoined in the Church . Printed for Josiah Blare , Book-Seller at the Looking-Glass , on London-Bridge . THE Westminster Wedding : Or , Trick for Trick . When Rogues and Whores together meet , it's pity they should parted be , But taste the bitter with the sweet , which still attends such Company . Tune is , The Winchester Wedding . A TO Westminster was such a Match , the like was never known , A Whore that was painted and patched , did meet with a French-man alone : The French-man was woefully Clapped , and so was the Whore also , He asked if she ever was Tapped , but still she made answer no : The French-man then needs would be doing supposing himself for to ease , At last by his amorous Wooing , he added unto his Disease . He joyed that so soon he had wone her , to grant him his hearts desire , And when he had stoutly done her , she set all his Rigging on fire : The French-man began for to mutter and feared she had served him a trick , For he found himself hotter and hotter , and wished she had been at Old Neck : When he first began for to dally , though 'twas with a wicked intent , But yet this same Brazen faced Molly , did little conceive what he meant . But finding himself out of order , he swore by gar she should die , Before she went any further , for with heat he began for to fry : And she was as notably peppered , to torture her it did begin , She spotted was like to a Leopard , from the sole of the foot to the Chin : At which he did seem to be pleased , and could not but laugh in his mind , Though he was as strangely diseased , as you by the sequel shall find . He told her that she was a Whore , to play such a damnable trick , She told him she knew that before , and then bid a pox of his P ------ For you like a Rogue have beguiled me , I partly do now understand , But cannot well say you have spoiled me , because I was spoiled to your hand : But yet I must tell you Monsieur , you nought by the bargain have god , And I think it will cost you full dear , for meddling with my merry Spot . A pox of your merry Spot then , the French-man aloud he did cry , It's enough for to spoil twenty men , that have no more forecast than I : But yet I believe you will find , your self in a pickled condition , At Kingsland some help you may find , if you draw up a handsome Petition : You must to the Hospital go , if ever you mean to be Cured , For it's such a torment I know , that well it cannot be endured . Was ever poor French-man so served , the Monsieur began for to cry , But yet he said he did deserve it , that with common Bitches would lie : But I do resolve for the future , no flattering Jades to believe , Experience it is the best Tutor , who tells me that Whores will deceive : But yet I am well enough served , that had and intent for to spoil her , And it's not a plague undeserved , because I did think to beguile her . And since such a trick she hath shown me , I think I had best to be friends , If she for a Husband will own me , i'll Wed her and make her amends , A Rogue and a Whore met together , it's pity they ever should part , For it's forty to one if that either , be loyal and true in the heart : So to her he told his intent , how he was disposed her to Marry , Away to the Church then they went , for neither was willing to tarry . And thus have you herd of a Wedding , where pockified couple did Wed , And there was no need of a Leading this Rogue and his Whore to the Be [ worser ] I wish this may be a fair warning , to English as well as to French , That they e'ry day may be learning to despise a bold impudent Wench : He thought at the first to deceive her , and so to leave her in the lurch , But he had not power to leave her , so both were conjoined in the Church . Printed for Josiah Blare , Book-Seller at the Looking-Glass , on London-Bridge . 