POOR ROBIN'S Miserable Misfortunes . OR , The late Experience of a Golden-Plaister to be a perfect cure of a painful Melody . To the Tune of , The Countrey-Farmer . This may be Printed , R.P. N Owe did you not hear of the wooing of late , When R obin the Fiddler he courted young Kate , His Musical rattle traps under his Cloak , Now listen a while and give ear to the joke , Said he , if thou wilt take a walk to the town , It never shall be said that i'll valve a crown , But Kate was coy , and she gave him a frown , With a kick of the breech , so she tumbled him down . Poor R obin he then on his Fiddle did fallen , And broke it in pieces , in shivers so small , Now Katy was pleased , and laughed at the fun , But R obin was ruined and clearly undone : He found that she treated him wondrous base , And forced to pack off , now with loss and disgrace ; He wept and he made a most sorrowful face , That all that came near him they pitied his case . His Mother she bid him to be of good cheer , And likewise she whispered a word in his ear , Persuading him every thing would be well , If he would but marry with bonny brisk Nell : Kates company I would have thee refrain , Since she does requite you with scorn and disdain , Take Nelly and then you need never complain , Her portion will buy thee a Fiddle again . Then R obin went on with a full carrear To Nelly , and called her his Duck and his dear , As soon as she see him but enter the door , She served him as bad as the other before : He could not tell how himself to behave , For Nelly in fury against them did rave , And said , do you think that I ever will enslave My self to a pitiful Fiddling Knave . Y Et R obin he would not be daunted with this , But went to embrace her and give her a kiss , Still this would not do , for she raved the more , And turned the poor Fiddler out of the door , And bid him be going to finish the strife , Or else he should taste of the point of her Knife , Poor Robin was forced to run for his life , If this be the trade I shall never get a wife . Now Robin resolved to go further a field To Dolly , and see if she'd lovingly yield , With courage undaunted then to her he went , As soon as he wooed her , she gave her consent , Then Robin was joyful and freely expressed , His love it was loyal , he was not in jest , Since Dolly is loving no man is more blessed , I shall have a wife now as well as the rest . At night when he went into bed to his bride , He had not continued long by her side , Before he was sensible she was with child , Then Robin cried out he was merely beguiled : Strait out of the bed then Robin arose , And all in a hurry he put on his clothes , Away to her Father with fury he goes , He told him his daughter had followed her blows . I tell you in short I am sick of my bride , She has been a playing at whoopers-hide , Nay Son , said her Father , i'de have you be friends , And if it be so I will make you amends , Her Father he opened his treasury store , And gave him full forty broad pieces and more , Now Robin does Dolly most dearly adore , He never had so many bred pieces before . This booty so cheered up poor Robins faint heart , That he from his bargain more never will part , He having this Gold now to furnish his purse , He takes his dear Dolly for better or worse : All former offences he'l cast behind , And more in affection will freely combine , Then Gold is a sovereign medicine we find , To cure the effects of a troubled mind . Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . POOR ROBIN'S Miserable Misfortunes . OR , The late Experience of a Golden-Plaister to be a perfect cure of a painful Melody . To the Tune of , The Countrey-Farmer . This may be Printed , R.P. N Owe did you not hear of the wooing of late , When R obin the Fiddler he courted young Kate , His Musical rattle traps under his Cloak , Now listen a while and give ear to the joke , Said he , if thou wilt take a walk to the town , It never shall be said that i'll valve a crown , But Kate was coy , and she gave him a frown , With a kick of the breech , so she tumbled him down . Poor R obin he then on his Fiddle did fallen , And broke it in pieces , in shivers so small , Now Katy was pleased , and laughed at the fun , But R obin was ruined and clearly undone : He found that she treated him wondrous base , And forced to pack off , now with loss and disgrace ; He wept and he made a most sorrowful face , That all that came near him they pitied his case . His Mother she bid him to be of good cheer , And likewise she whispered a word in his ear , Persuading him every thing would be well , If he would but marry with bonny brisk Nell : Kates company I would have thee refrain , Since she does requite you with scorn and disdain , Take Nelly and then you need never complain , Her portion will buy thee a Fiddle again . Then R obin went on with a full carrear To Nelly , and called her his Duck and his dear , As soon as she see him but enter the door , She served him as bad as the other before : He could not tell how himself to behave , For Nelly in fury against them did rave , And said , do you think that I ever will enslave My self to a pitiful Fiddling Knave . Y Et R obin he would not be daunted with this , But went to embrace her and give her a kiss , Still this would not do , for she raved the more , And turned the poor Fiddler out of the door , And bid him be going to finish the strife , Or else he should taste of the point of her Knife , Poor Robin was forced to run for his life , If this be the trade I shall never get a wife . Now Robin resolved to go further a field To Dolly , and see if she'd lovingly yield , With courage undaunted then to her he went , As soon as he wooed her , she gave her consent , Then Robin was joyful and freely expressed , His love it was loyal , he was not in jest , Since Dolly is loving no man is more blessed , I shall have a wife now as well as the rest . At night when he went into bed to his bride , He had not continued long by her side , Before he was sensible she was with child , Then Robin cried out he was merely beguiled : Strait out of the bed then Robin arose , And all in a hurry he put on his clothes , Away to her Father with fury he goes , He told him his daughter had followed her blows . I tell you in short I am sick of my bride , She has been a playing at whoopers-hide , Nay Son , said her Father , i'de have you be friends , And if it be so I will make you amends , Her Father he opened his treasury store , And gave him full forty broad pieces and more , Now Robin does Dolly most dearly adore , He never had so many bred pieces before . This booty so cheered up poor Robins faint heart , That he from his bargain more never will part , He having this Gold now to furnish his purse , He takes his dear Dolly for better or worse : All former offences he'l cast behind , And more in affection will freely combine , Then Gold is a sovereign medicine we find , To cure the effects of a troubled mind . Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . 