A New-Fashioned Marigold . Or , A dainty New-Fashion devised for Tom Stitch the Taylor . Then listen to my song a while , I'm sure here's that will make you smile . The Tune is , Behold the Man. TO Here was a youngman in his prime , that lately would be wed , And at the last with much ado , his purpose he had sped , For he had god a bonny Lass , to board and eke to bed : And with heigh ho the Marigold , heigh derry derry derry derry down . At night when they should go to bed , the clothes they did unfold , They went into their naked beds , and might do what they would : He sought alas , but could not find out his wives Marigold , And with , etc He sought it high , he sought it low , and also round about , And yet he could not find it within the bed nor out , Which made this silly youngman most greatly stand in doubt , That his Wife had never a Marigold , etc Betimes in the morning , for a Taylor he did send , And eke desired his counsel , for he took him for his friend . My wife ( quoth he ) is lame alas , the fault now you must mend , For she hath , etc Therefore kind Taylor now ( quoth he ) if thou wilt undertake , A brave new fashion Marigold , for my young wife to make : I'll give thee forty shillings to spend even for my sake . And with , etc But when the nimble Taylor , the money did behold , And that the forty shillings into his hand was told , He undertook forthwith to make a famous Marigold . And with , etc With that the youngman gave him full twenty shillings more , To buy brave silks and trimmings , to make it fine before : For that's the only fashion , which now adais is wore . And with heigh ho the Marigold , heigh derry derry derry derry down . TO Hen said the Nimble Taylor , since we are now together , Pray let your wife go home with me , that I may take right measure , And I'll make her a Marigold shall do you lasting pleasure , And with heigh ho the Marigold , he derry derry derry derry down . To this the bonny Bridegroom , did quickly give consent , And so away the Taylor , with the young woman went To his own house , where it's thought , he did her well content : With heigh , etc He brought her to his Chamber , and upon the bed her laid , And with his piercing Bodkin then , he drove a subtle trade ; In less then half and hour , the Marigold was made , And with , etc When he had done the practice , he brought her back again , Unto her loving Husband , who did her entertain ; He kissed his wife , and then he thanked , the Taylor for his pain , And with , etc That night they lay together , the good man and his wife , And merrily they concluded their former care and strife ; For he was never pleased so well before in all his life , As when he found her Marigold . About a fortnight after that , this woman was in pain , It seems her pretty Marigold was out of frame again , To go unto the taylor she could not refrain , And with , etc The Taylor he took pains with her , to settle all things aright , And as it is reported , he lay with her all night : And on the morrow morning , with joy and much delight ; He sent her to her Husband , with heigh derry derry derry derry down . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A New-Fashioned Marigold . Or , A dainty New-Fashion devised for Tom Stitch the Taylor . Then listen to my song a while , I'm sure here's that will make you smile . The Tune is , Behold the Man. TO Here was a youngman in his prime , that lately would be wed , And at the last with much ado , his purpose he had sped , For he had god a bonny Lass , to board and eke to bed : And with heigh ho the Marigold , heigh derry derry derry derry down . At night when they should go to bed , the clothes they did unfold , They went into their naked beds , and might do what they would : He sought alas , but could not find out his wives Marigold , And with , etc He sought it high , he sought it low , and also round about , And yet he could not find it within the bed nor out , Which made this silly youngman most greatly stand in doubt , That his Wife had never a Marigold , etc Betimes in the morning , for a Taylor he did send , And eke desired his counsel , for he took him for his friend . My wife ( quoth he ) is lame alas , the fault now you must mend , For she hath , etc Therefore kind Taylor now ( quoth he ) if thou wilt undertake , A brave new fashion Marigold , for my young wife to make : I'll give thee forty shillings to spend even for my sake . And with , etc But when the nimble Taylor , the money did behold , And that the forty shillings into his hand was told , He undertook forthwith to make a famous Marigold . And with , etc With that the youngman gave him full twenty shillings more , To buy brave silks and trimmings , to make it fine before : For that's the only fashion , which now adais is wore . And with heigh ho the Marigold , heigh derry derry derry derry down . TO Hen said the Nimble Taylor , since we are now together , Pray let your wife go home with me , that I may take right measure , And I'll make her a Marigold shall do you lasting pleasure , And with heigh ho the Marigold , he derry derry derry derry down . To this the bonny Bridegroom , did quickly give consent , And so away the Taylor , with the young woman went To his own house , where it's thought , he did her well content : With heigh , etc He brought her to his Chamber , and upon the bed her laid , And with his piercing Bodkin then , he drove a subtle trade ; In less then half and hour , the Marigold was made , And with , etc When he had done the practice , he brought her back again , Unto her loving Husband , who did her entertain ; He kissed his wife , and then he thanked , the Taylor for his pain , And with , etc That night they lay together , the good man and his wife , And merrily they concluded their former care and strife ; For he was never pleased so well before in all his life , As when he found her Marigold . About a fortnight after that , this woman was in pain , It seems her pretty Marigold was out of frame again , To go unto the taylor she could not refrain , And with , etc The Taylor he took pains with her , to settle all things aright , And as it is reported , he lay with her all night : And on the morrow morning , with joy and much delight ; He sent her to her Husband , with heigh derry derry derry derry down . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 