A New BALLAD Of and Amorous Coachman , Who was so difficult in pleasing his Lovesick Fancy ; that after his several Ad - dresses to the Female Sex , he was at last Married : which made him cry out , Alas ! My Humour is so hard to please , That I find Love , not Love , but a Disease ; Yes a Disease that rages in my Heart , And wounds my Amorous Soul in every part : I love and loath and both within and hour , So soon my Loathing Loving do's devour . This may be Printed , R. P. To the Tune of , There was a brisk Lass. I Went to the Fair to pick out a Wife , That might be a comfort to my sweet Life : On pretty black Nanny I cast a Sheeps eye , And told her for Love , I believed I should die ; I kissed her a little and thought that her breath Had poisoned me so that I looked for Death , She stunk as she stood , like Carrion I'll swear So I found that I'de god the wrong Sow by the Ear . To Jenney they wished me , indeed she was fair But a pox on her Carrots , I liked not read hair , Her skin I did love , but her hair I did hate , I never in my Life could love Carrot-pate : She told me of combs to altar the hue But Faith I thought they were like True blue ; And therefore in haste I had her adieu , And nimbly I trip to wanton Sue . Kind Sue quoth I , I'm come to Woo , Love perches methinks upon thy brow , In troth cried she , if thou meanest to be mine A pair of good Horns shall perch on thine This nettled me so that I ran away , True words spoke in jest we often do say : With head and with heart both brimful of pain Away I did scamper to Mrs. Jane . She seemed very coy , it pleased me the more , I liked her much better than all before ; In the Room was a bed to work we went And hardly ten minutes of time was spent , Before I perceived her Jewel was lost , And thus my found hope's and purpose was crossed : I thought it high-time , the Coachman was fled Perceiving the want of her Maidenhead . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Then Marry and I walked out to take Air , She had a fine skin and delicate hair , I thought me self blessed by the Powers above , For troth I was smitten and much in Love : But she was cross and as peevish as a Whore , As any old Jade can be at therefore ; She thwarted me still in whatever I said , And then I drove on to a nasty Jade . Her name was Rebecca , in holiday Clothes She was smug and far sweeter than Munday-Rose When they were locked up she looked as black As the Mourning Suit on my Master's back ; I fancy the Sow and Pigs she traced , For up to the knee her coat was laced , Her Smock was as black as the Hood she wore , I had her be gone for a nasty whore . To Deborah then in haste I ran , Her skin was as smooth as Feathers of Swan , I told her I loved her , and canted with Zeal And tried by Religion her Pulse to feel : But say what I would , she answered me nay , Thought I , I shall not be married to day : She sighed and she whined when I asked her to marry She often would cry , good Coachman tarry . Then I sneaked off , and to Dolly I went , In whom I expected to find content : But Dolly was damnable proud and high To the Coach-box before me , she needs would fly ; I took up my Whip and I gave her a lick She said she abhorred me for that trick : And now the poor Coachman must lie all alone , For he's envied by some , and pitied by none . But stay , last of all his Fortune's to mend , To Dorcas the Coachman was wished by a Friend Who said she would make him amends for the loss Of all his old Sweethearts , for she was not cross ; So the Coachman was married he thought to content , But he ever since do's live to repent , His Wife had some faults which I'll tell you in brief She was a Pick-pockit , a Whore & amp ; a Thief . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . A New BALLAD Of and Amorous Coachman , Who was so difficult in pleasing his Lovesick Fancy ; that after his several Ad - dresses to the Female Sex , he was at last Married : which made him cry out , Alas ! My Humour is so hard to please , That I find Love , not Love , but a Disease ; Yes a Disease that rages in my Heart , And wounds my Amorous Soul in every part : I love and loath and both within and hour , So soon my Loathing Loving do's devour . This may be Printed , R. P. To the Tune of , There was a brisk Lass. I Went to the Fair to pick out a Wife , That might be a comfort to my sweet Life : On pretty black Nanny I cast a Sheeps eye , And told her for Love , I believed I should die ; I kissed her a little and thought that her breath Had poisoned me so that I looked for Death , She stunk as she stood , like Carrion I'll swear So I found that I'de god the wrong Sow by the Ear . To Jenney they wished me , indeed she was fair But a pox on her Carrots , I liked not read hair , Her skin I did love , but her hair I did hate , I never in my Life could love Carrot-pate : She told me of combs to altar the hue But Faith I thought they were like True blue ; And therefore in haste I had her adieu , And nimbly I trip to wanton Sue . Kind Sue quoth I , I'm come to Woo , Love perches methinks upon thy brow , In troth cried she , if thou meanest to be mine A pair of good Horns shall perch on thine This nettled me so that I ran away , True words spoke in jest we often do say : With head and with heart both brimful of pain Away I did scamper to Mrs. Jane . She seemed very coy , it pleased me the more , I liked her much better than all before ; In the Room was a bed to work we went And hardly ten minutes of time was spent , Before I perceived her Jewel was lost , And thus my found hope's and purpose was crossed : I thought it high-time , the Coachman was fled Perceiving the want of her Maidenhead . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Then Marry and I walked out to take Air , She had a fine skin and delicate hair , I thought me self blessed by the Powers above , For troth I was smitten and much in Love : But she was cross and as peevish as a Whore , As any old Jade can be at therefore ; She thwarted me still in whatever I said , And then I drove on to a nasty Jade . Her name was Rebecca , in holiday Clothes She was smug and far sweeter than Munday-Rose When they were locked up she looked as black As the Mourning Suit on my Master's back ; I fancy the Sow and Pigs she traced , For up to the knee her coat was laced , Her Smock was as black as the Hood she wore , I had her be gone for a nasty whore . To Deborah then in haste I ran , Her skin was as smooth as Feathers of Swan , I told her I loved her , and canted with Zeal And tried by Religion her Pulse to feel : But say what I would , she answered me nay , Thought I , I shall not be married to day : She sighed and she whined when I asked her to marry She often would cry , good Coachman tarry . Then I sneaked off , and to Dolly I went , In whom I expected to find content : But Dolly was damnable proud and high To the Coach-box before me , she needs would fly ; I took up my Whip and I gave her a lick She said she abhorred me for that trick : And now the poor Coachman must lie all alone , For he's envied by some , and pitied by none . But stay , last of all his Fortune's to mend , To Dorcas the Coachman was wished by a Friend Who said she would make him amends for the loss Of all his old Sweethearts , for she was not cross ; So the Coachman was married he thought to content , But he ever since do's live to repent , His Wife had some faults which I'll tell you in brief She was a Pick-pockit , a Whore & amp ; a Thief . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 