Advice to Bachelors , OR , The Married men Lamentation . Take heed you that Unmarried are , How you do make your Choice ; But if a good Wife you do find , 'Twill make your heart Rejoice . To the Tune of , Heigh boys up go we ; busy fame ; Martellus ; Or , Jenny Gin . THE u Bachelors that single are , may led a happy life , For married men are full of care , and Women oft breed strife : As by my late unhappy match , you here may plainly see , A loving man and froward Wife , will never well agree . Beauty's a thing that wins men's hearts , and reason so bewitches , That men oft let the weaker sort , like fools to wear the Breeches . And I my self too late lament my apish foolery ; For if I speak and hasty word , then heigh boys slap goes she . I in the morning up must get , or else there is no quiet , And get her some delicious bit , for she does love good diet : I ask her why she'l be profuse ? she cries what's that to me , And if another word I use , then Heigh Boys slap goes she . S He'l make me rise out of my Bed , to let another in ; And if I ask the reason why , a quarrel does begin ; She'l haul me up and down the house , the like you never did see , I must be silent as a Mouse , or Hey Boys slap goes she . If I but for my breakfast ask , then does she laugh and jeer , Perhaps give me a hard dry crust . and strong four Shilling Beer : She tells me that is good enough , for such a Rogue as me , And if I do but seem to pout , then Heigh Boys slap goes she . She often times does tell me plain , that I do wear the horns , Sure every man does this disdain , and wise men merely scorns : But since it's my unhappy fate , how can it helped be ? But if I chance thereof to prate , then heigh Boys slap goes she . The Pots and Dishes I must wash , and scour the Irons too , Nay , and must wash the children's clouts believe me this is true : But those that did the Children get , should slave as well as me , And if I chance to vex or fret , then heigh Boys slap goes she , This is a strange and dismal life , that I poor man do led ; And when I do consider well : it makes my heart to bleed : But if it goes against the grain , I must contented be , If in the lest I do complain then heigh Boys slap goes she . O that I were a single man , as I was heretofore , Or if I were a Widower . I never would Marry more : For I do to my sorrow know . and to my grief I see , When she says I and I say no , then heigh Boys slap goes she . A thousand times I wish in vain , I never had been begotten , Then had I been a happy man , now Cuckold , Fool , and Sot : But once again you B atchelors , take warning now by me , For it's a curse to be a Slave , and yet a C [ u ] ckold be . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilded Spur-Street , without Newgate . Advice to Bachelors , OR , The Married men Lamentation . Take heed you that Unmarried are , How you do make your Choice ; But if a good Wife you do find , 'Twill make your heart Rejoice . To the Tune of , Heigh boys up go we ; busy fame ; Martellus ; Or , Jenny Gin . THE u Bachelors that single are , may led a happy life , For married men are full of care , and Women oft breed strife : As by my late unhappy match , you here may plainly see , A loving man and froward Wife , will never well agree . Beauty's a thing that wins men's hearts , and reason so bewitches , That men oft let the weaker sort , like fools to wear the Breeches . And I my self too late lament my apish foolery ; For if I speak and hasty word , then heigh boys slap goes she . I in the morning up must get , or else there is no quiet , And get her some delicious bit , for she does love good diet : I ask her why she'l be profuse ? she cries what's that to me , And if another word I use , then Heigh Boys slap goes she . S He'l make me rise out of my Bed , to let another in ; And if I ask the reason why , a quarrel does begin ; She'l haul me up and down the house , the like you never did see , I must be silent as a Mouse , or Hey Boys slap goes she . If I but for my breakfast ask , then does she laugh and jeer , Perhaps give me a hard dry crust . and strong four Shilling Beer : She tells me that is good enough , for such a Rogue as me , And if I do but seem to pout , then Heigh Boys slap goes she . She often times does tell me plain , that I do wear the horns , Sure every man does this disdain , and wise men merely scorns : But since it's my unhappy fate , how can it helped be ? But if I chance thereof to prate , then heigh Boys slap goes she . The Pots and Dishes I must wash , and scour the Irons too , Nay , and must wash the children's clouts believe me this is true : But those that did the Children get , should slave as well as me , And if I chance to vex or fret , then heigh Boys slap goes she , This is a strange and dismal life , that I poor man do led ; And when I do consider well : it makes my heart to bleed : But if it goes against the grain , I must contented be , If in the lest I do complain then heigh Boys slap goes she . O that I were a single man , as I was heretofore , Or if I were a Widower . I never would Marry more : For I do to my sorrow know . and to my grief I see , When she says I and I say no , then heigh Boys slap goes she . A thousand times I wish in vain , I never had been begotten , Then had I been a happy man , now Cuckold , Fool , and Sot : But once again you B atchelors , take warning now by me , For it's a curse to be a Slave , and yet a C [ u ] ckold be . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilded Spur-Street , without Newgate . 