A Warning for Married Women . Being and Example of M rs . Jane Reynolds ( a west-country-Woman ) born near Plimouth who having plighted her troth to a Seaman , was afterwards married to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spirit , the manner how shall presently be recited . To a west-country Tune , called , The fair maid of B ristol : Bateman , or , John True . TO Here dwelled a fair Maid in the West , of worthy Birth and Fame , Near unto Plimouth stately Town Jane Reynolds was her name . This Damsel dearly was beloved , by many a proper youth : And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth : Among the rest a Seaman brave , unto her a wooing came , A comely proper youth he was , James Harris called by Name . The Maid and Youngman was agreed as time did them allow , And to each other secretly , they made a solemn vow That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life , He was to be her Husband kind , and she his faithful Wife . A day appointed was also , when they were to be married , But before these things were brought to pass matters were strangely carried . All you that faithful Lovers be , give ear and harken well , And what of them became at last , I will directly tell . The Young man he was pressed to Sea , and forced was to go , His sweetheart she must stay behind whither she would or no . And after he was from her gone , she three years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home , and kept her self a Maid . At last news came that he was dead , within a Foreign Land , And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the maiden she , lamented many a day : And never was she known at all , the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that lived hard by , when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a wooing came . B Ut when that he had gained her love , they married were with speed , [ A ] and four years space ( being man & amp ; wife ) they lovingly agreed . Three pretty Children in this time , this lovely couple had , Which made their Father's heart rejoice and Mother wondrous glad . But as occasion served one time , the good man took his way , Some three days journey from his home intending not to stay . But while that he was gone away , a spirit in the night , Came to the window of his Wife , and did her sorely fright . Which Spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say , My dear and only love ( quoth he ) prepare and come away . James Harris is my name ( quoth he ) whom thou didst love so dear , And I have travelest for thy sake , at least this seven year . And now I am returned again , to take thee to my wife , And thou with me shalt go to Sea , to end all f [ ? ] her strife . O tempt me not sweet James ( quoth she ) with thee away to go , If I should leave my children small , alas what would they do ? My Husband is a Carpenter , a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds , that he should know the same . I might have had a Kings Daughte , and she would have married me , But [ I ] forsook her Golden Crown and for the love of thee . Therefore if thou'lt thy husband forsake and thy children three also I will forgive thee what is past if thou wilt with me go . I f I forsake my husband , and my little Children three , What means hast thou to bring me to , if I should go with thee . I have seaven Ships upon the Sea , when they are come to Land , Both Mariners and Merchandise , shall be at thy command . The Ship wherein my love shall [ l ] sail , is glorious to behold , The sails shall be of finest silk , and the mast of shining gold . When he had told her these fair tales , to love him she began , Because he was in humane shape , much like unto a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the Womankind , was never seen no more . But when her Husband he came home , and found his Wife was gone , And left her three sweet pr [ i ] tty babes , within the house alone . He beatrice him [ s ] breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case , he Hanged himself for Woe , Upon a tree , near to the place , the truth of all is so . The children now are fatherless , and left without a guide , But yet no doubt the heavenly powers , will for them well provide . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Warning for Married Women . Being and Example of M rs . Jane Reynolds ( a west-country-Woman ) born near Plimouth who having plighted her troth to a Seaman , was afterwards married to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spirit , the manner how shall presently be recited . To a west-country Tune , called , The fair maid of B ristol : Bateman , or , John True . TO Here dwelled a fair Maid in the West , of worthy Birth and Fame , Near unto Plimouth stately Town Jane Reynolds was her name . This Damsel dearly was beloved , by many a proper youth : And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth : Among the rest a Seaman brave , unto her a wooing came , A comely proper youth he was , James Harris called by Name . The Maid and Youngman was agreed as time did them allow , And to each other secretly , they made a solemn vow That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life , He was to be her Husband kind , and she his faithful Wife . A day appointed was also , when they were to be married , But before these things were brought to pass matters were strangely carried . All you that faithful Lovers be , give ear and harken well , And what of them became at last , I will directly tell . The Young man he was pressed to Sea , and forced was to go , His sweetheart she must stay behind whither she would or no . And after he was from her gone , she three years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home , and kept her self a Maid . At last news came that he was dead , within a Foreign Land , And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the maiden she , lamented many a day : And never was she known at all , the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that lived hard by , when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a wooing came . B Ut when that he had gained her love , they married were with speed , [ A ] and four years space ( being man & amp ; wife ) they lovingly agreed . Three pretty Children in this time , this lovely couple had , Which made their Father's heart rejoice and Mother wondrous glad . But as occasion served one time , the good man took his way , Some three days journey from his home intending not to stay . But while that he was gone away , a spirit in the night , Came to the window of his Wife , and did her sorely fright . Which Spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say , My dear and only love ( quoth he ) prepare and come away . James Harris is my name ( quoth he ) whom thou didst love so dear , And I have travelest for thy sake , at least this seven year . And now I am returned again , to take thee to my wife , And thou with me shalt go to Sea , to end all f [ ? ] her strife . O tempt me not sweet James ( quoth she ) with thee away to go , If I should leave my children small , alas what would they do ? My Husband is a Carpenter , a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds , that he should know the same . I might have had a Kings Daughte , and she would have married me , But [ I ] forsook her Golden Crown and for the love of thee . Therefore if thou'lt thy husband forsake and thy children three also I will forgive thee what is past if thou wilt with me go . I f I forsake my husband , and my little Children three , What means hast thou to bring me to , if I should go with thee . I have seaven Ships upon the Sea , when they are come to Land , Both Mariners and Merchandise , shall be at thy command . The Ship wherein my love shall [ l ] sail , is glorious to behold , The sails shall be of finest silk , and the mast of shining gold . When he had told her these fair tales , to love him she began , Because he was in humane shape , much like unto a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the Womankind , was never seen no more . But when her Husband he came home , and found his Wife was gone , And left her three sweet pr [ i ] tty babes , within the house alone . He beatrice him [ s ] breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case , he Hanged himself for Woe , Upon a tree , near to the place , the truth of all is so . The children now are fatherless , and left without a guide , But yet no doubt the heavenly powers , will for them well provide . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 