THE West-Country Wedding . Betwixt Roger the Plowman , and Ellin the Dary-Maid . With the Sorrowful moan of twenty or thirty forsaken Damosels , whereof fifteen being with - Child , sounded forth their sorrowful Lamentations on Rogers Wedding-day . To the Tune of , The Crafty Miss , Or , Moggies Jealousy . N Owe listen and be not mistaken , attend unto what I shall tell , Of thirty fair Damsels forsaken , when Roger he Married with Nell : Young Lasses delightful and pretty in person both proper and tall , Attend and give ear to my ditty , I'll tell you the truth of it all . Young Nell was a Lass for the Dary , and Roger a lad for the Blow , They went to the Fair to be merry , where they then contracted a vow ; With her he was truly delighted , for she was both bonny and gay , Their friends they were also invited , and Nelly appointed the day . Her friends they had freely consented , that R oger should marry with Nell Thus they being truly contented , the matter was carried on well : The Bride she rejoicing did simper , as she passed into the Church . But then his old sweetheart did wimper to see they were left in the Lurch . Full twenty or thirty he courted , and promised marriage to all , But yet it is truly reported , that they are in pitiful thrall : They make a most sad lamentation , both Dorothy , Maudlin , and Win , The rest sounding forth their relation , how loving and kind they had been . Quoth B ridget his bans I have starched and made him as neat as my nail To many a fair we have marched , and yet all this would not prevail ; Ah who would have thought it quod Dolly how little of this did we dream , When he was so jocund and jolly , we fed him with Curds & amp ; with Cream . Was ever poor Maidens so slighted , by one that they loved so dear , How often has he been invited , by us , to the best of good cheer ; And many a sweet Sillibub , we have given him warm from the Cow , And yet he hath gave us the rub , and also has broken his vow . Quoth Maudlin with kind invitations , I walked with him to next Town And there by his fair protestations , he gave me indeed a green-gown . And Custards with Cheese-Cakes and kisses my senses he soon did betray , And then to the fountain of blisses , he found out the ready right way . A shame of his head he was dirty , poor innocent Maids to beguile , He courted but twenty or thirty , and fifteen of them are with-Child ; Now from us he's clearly departed , and leaves us to sighs and complain , His Cheese-Cakes were all hollowhearted Ah! he is Villain in grain . Quoth Betty , he often concluded , to make me as bad as the rest , But yet I would never be deluded , to any uncivil request ; I found him a slivery fellow , a cunning and crafty young Elf , Ah! then bespoke fair Isabella , I would I had done to my self . Young Jenny , and Susan , and Sarah , was never so wanton and wild , Nor Margery , Nanny , nor Marry , this blade he could never beguile ; But those that was wanton and willing , now mournfully hang down their ears , Their Courting and kissing and billing , is turned to showers of tears . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . THE West-Country Wedding . Betwixt Roger the Plowman , and Ellin the Dary-Maid . With the Sorrowful moan of twenty or thirty forsaken Damosels , whereof fifteen being with - Child , sounded forth their sorrowful Lamentations on Rogers Wedding-day . To the Tune of , The Crafty Miss , Or , Moggies Jealousy . N Owe listen and be not mistaken , attend unto what I shall tell , Of thirty fair Damsels forsaken , when Roger he Married with Nell : Young Lasses delightful and pretty in person both proper and tall , Attend and give ear to my ditty , I'll tell you the truth of it all . Young Nell was a Lass for the Dary , and Roger a lad for the Blow , They went to the Fair to be merry , where they then contracted a vow ; With her he was truly delighted , for she was both bonny and gay , Their friends they were also invited , and Nelly appointed the day . Her friends they had freely consented , that R oger should marry with Nell Thus they being truly contented , the matter was carried on well : The Bride she rejoicing did simper , as she passed into the Church . But then his old sweetheart did wimper to see they were left in the Lurch . Full twenty or thirty he courted , and promised marriage to all , But yet it is truly reported , that they are in pitiful thrall : They make a most sad lamentation , both Dorothy , Maudlin , and Win , The rest sounding forth their relation , how loving and kind they had been . Quoth B ridget his bans I have starched and made him as neat as my nail To many a fair we have marched , and yet all this would not prevail ; Ah who would have thought it quod Dolly how little of this did we dream , When he was so jocund and jolly , we fed him with Curds & amp ; with Cream . Was ever poor Maidens so slighted , by one that they loved so dear , How often has he been invited , by us , to the best of good cheer ; And many a sweet Sillibub , we have given him warm from the Cow , And yet he hath gave us the rub , and also has broken his vow . Quoth Maudlin with kind invitations , I walked with him to next Town And there by his fair protestations , he gave me indeed a green-gown . And Custards with Cheese-Cakes and kisses my senses he soon did betray , And then to the fountain of blisses , he found out the ready right way . A shame of his head he was dirty , poor innocent Maids to beguile , He courted but twenty or thirty , and fifteen of them are with-Child ; Now from us he's clearly departed , and leaves us to sighs and complain , His Cheese-Cakes were all hollowhearted Ah! he is Villain in grain . Quoth Betty , he often concluded , to make me as bad as the rest , But yet I would never be deluded , to any uncivil request ; I found him a slivery fellow , a cunning and crafty young Elf , Ah! then bespoke fair Isabella , I would I had done to my self . Young Jenny , and Susan , and Sarah , was never so wanton and wild , Nor Margery , Nanny , nor Marry , this blade he could never beguile ; But those that was wanton and willing , now mournfully hang down their ears , Their Courting and kissing and billing , is turned to showers of tears . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . 