THE Winchester Wedding : OR , Ralph of Reading , with Black Bess of the Green , Did together resort , And caused such sport , As before scarce ever was seen . To the Tune of , The King's Jig . A TO Winchester was a wedding , the like was never seen , Betwixt lusty Ralph of Reading , and bonny black Bess of the Green ; The Fiddlers were crowding before , each Lass was as fine as a Queen There was and hundred and more , for all the whole Country came in ; Brick Robin led Rose so fair , she looked like a Lily o'th vale , And Ruddy faced Harry led Mary , and Roger led bouncing Nell . With Tommy came smiling Katy , he helped her over the style , And swore there was none so pretty , in forty and forty long mile ; Kit gave a green Gown to Betty , and lent her his hand to rise . But Jenny was jeered by Watty , for looking blue under the eyes : Thus merrily chatting all day , they passed to the Biide-house along ; With Johnny and pretty faced Nanny , the fairest in all the throng . The Bridegroom came out to meet they , afraid the Dinner was spoiled , And usherd they in to treat they , with baked and Roast and boiled The Lads were frolic and jolly , for each had a Lass by his side : But Willy was Melancholy , for he had a mind to the Bride : Then Phillip began her health , and turned a beer Glass on his thumb , But Jenkin was reckoned for drinking , the best in Christendom . And now they had dined , advancing into the midst of the Hall , The Fiddlers struck up for dancing , and Jeremy led up the brawl ; But Margery kept a quarter , a Lass that was proud of her pelf , Because Arthur had stolen her Garter , and swore he would tie it himself : She struggled , she blushed , and frowned , and ready with anger to cry , Because Arthur with tying her Garter , had slipped up his hand too high . And now for throwing and stocking , the Bride away was led , The Bridegroom god drunk was knocking for Candles to light they to bed ; But Robin that found him silly , most friendly took him aside , While that his Wife with Willy , was playing at Whoopers-hide : And now the warm Game begins , the Critical minute was come , And chatting , and billing , and kissing , went merrily round the room . Poor Stephen was kind to Betty , as blithe as a Bird in the Spring , And Tommy was so to Katy , and wedded her with a rush Ring ; Sakey that danced with the Cushion , and hour from the room had been gone , And Barnaby knew by her blushing , that some other Dance had been done : And thus of fifty fair Maids , that went to the Wedding with men , Scarce five of the fifty was left you , that so did return again . For when the drink god in their noddles to kissing they all did incline , Like Madmen they broke the Bottles , and foolishly wasted the wine : Each Lad god his Lass in a corner , the candles they all blew out , But Willy he was the Horner , for he with the Bride had a bout : And never was there such a Wedding , ever known in the age of man , At Winchester , no nor at Reading , disprove what I say if yot can . There twenty great bells were got [ n ] all on one Wedding night . Which will not in haste be forgotten , the Damosels found such delight , But Roger and bouncing Nelly , that happened to be in their prime , If you will believe what I tell you , did get two Twins at a time : But Christopher was somewhat feeble , and could do no feats at all So all of them laughed at him stoutly , and did him a fumbler call . You youngsters that go to a Wedding , to your Lasses be loving and kind , And tumble them well on the Bedding , for it pleasing is to their mind , It grieves them to see that another , enjoys what themselves is denied , Though they their passion do smother , in their hearts they are terrified ; And will steal a good turn if they can , so earnest they are in desire , No Treasure is like a Young-Man , to extinguish their amorous fire . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . THE Winchester Wedding : OR , Ralph of Reading , with Black Bess of the Green , Did together resort , And caused such sport , As before scarce ever was seen . To the Tune of , The King's Jig . A TO Winchester was a wedding , the like was never seen , Betwixt lusty Ralph of Reading , and bonny black Bess of the Green ; The Fiddlers were crowding before , each Lass was as fine as a Queen There was and hundred and more , for all the whole Country came in ; Brick Robin led Rose so fair , she looked like a Lily o'th vale , And Ruddy faced Harry led Mary , and Roger led bouncing Nell . With Tommy came smiling Katy , he helped her over the style , And swore there was none so pretty , in forty and forty long mile ; Kit gave a green Gown to Betty , and lent her his hand to rise . But Jenny was jeered by Watty , for looking blue under the eyes : Thus merrily chatting all day , they passed to the Biide-house along ; With Johnny and pretty faced Nanny , the fairest in all the throng . The Bridegroom came out to meet they , afraid the Dinner was spoiled , And usherd they in to treat they , with baked and Roast and boiled The Lads were frolic and jolly , for each had a Lass by his side : But Willy was Melancholy , for he had a mind to the Bride : Then Phillip began her health , and turned a beer Glass on his thumb , But Jenkin was reckoned for drinking , the best in Christendom . And now they had dined , advancing into the midst of the Hall , The Fiddlers struck up for dancing , and Jeremy led up the brawl ; But Margery kept a quarter , a Lass that was proud of her pelf , Because Arthur had stolen her Garter , and swore he would tie it himself : She struggled , she blushed , and frowned , and ready with anger to cry , Because Arthur with tying her Garter , had slipped up his hand too high . And now for throwing and stocking , the Bride away was led , The Bridegroom god drunk was knocking for Candles to light they to bed ; But Robin that found him silly , most friendly took him aside , While that his Wife with Willy , was playing at Whoopers-hide : And now the warm Game begins , the Critical minute was come , And chatting , and billing , and kissing , went merrily round the room . Poor Stephen was kind to Betty , as blithe as a Bird in the Spring , And Tommy was so to Katy , and wedded her with a rush Ring ; Sakey that danced with the Cushion , and hour from the room had been gone , And Barnaby knew by her blushing , that some other Dance had been done : And thus of fifty fair Maids , that went to the Wedding with men , Scarce five of the fifty was left you , that so did return again . For when the drink god in their noddles to kissing they all did incline , Like Madmen they broke the Bottles , and foolishly wasted the wine : Each Lad god his Lass in a corner , the candles they all blew out , But Willy he was the Horner , for he with the Bride had a bout : And never was there such a Wedding , ever known in the age of man , At Winchester , no nor at Reading , disprove what I say if yot can . There twenty great bells were got [ n ] all on one Wedding night . Which will not in haste be forgotten , the Damosels found such delight , But Roger and bouncing Nelly , that happened to be in their prime , If you will believe what I tell you , did get two Twins at a time : But Christopher was somewhat feeble , and could do no feats at all So all of them laughed at him stoutly , and did him a fumbler call . You youngsters that go to a Wedding , to your Lasses be loving and kind , And tumble them well on the Bedding , for it pleasing is to their mind , It grieves them to see that another , enjoys what themselves is denied , Though they their passion do smother , in their hearts they are terrified ; And will steal a good turn if they can , so earnest they are in desire , No Treasure is like a Young-Man , to extinguish their amorous fire . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 