The West-Country Wedding : OR , Honest Susan ' s good Fortune , who resisting the Temptations of her aged Master the Baker , became his careful Bride , and Mistress of all his Treasure . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc Or , Found Boy , etc C Ome all you old Bakers , attend and give ear , While I sing you a ditty of Somersetshire , Where there lived and old miser , a baker by trade , Who did keep a young servant , a beautiful maid : Her he often entreated to lie by his side ; Oh be kind to thy master , the baker he cried . Said Susan , what kindness , sir , do you request ? He replied , in thy bosom to take a night's rest ; Which , if I may enjoy it , I solemny swear , I will treat thee to morrow at Michaelmas - fair ; Thou shalt have tarts and custards , with sherry beside , Then be kind to thy master , the baker he cried . O grant me what I do so earnestly crave , Then a new pair of holy day hose thou shalt have , And new shoes with silk ribbons , both gawdy and green : Would not this be a delicate sighed to be seen ? Therefore prithee be free , love , to lie by my side , And be kind to thy master , the baker he cried . Why should you desire the wanton to play ? Do but look of your locks , that are hoary and grey , Which will soon blast such found idle notions as these ; But I find by the sequel , old rats do love cheese ; Yet the thoughts of your actions I scorn and deride , I will never be your harlot , no , no , she replied . Your proffers I hope , I have grace to refuse ; Sir , a fig for your hose , and your holy day shoes ; I will never receive them , and therefore forebear , It's not you that shall catch me so soon in a snare ; You must seek for some other to lie by your side , For I'll never be your harlot , no , no , she replied . I'll buy thee a scarf and a farendine-gown , Full as rich and as gay as the best in the town . With a muff , fan , and likewise a topping commode , When the harvest and pleasure of love I have mowed ; Therefore prithee sweet Susan come lie by my side , And be kind to thy master , the baker replied . A chain of fine gold on my dear I'll bestow , Nay , I'll deck thee with laces and ribbons also ; I have likewise a diamond , sweet Susan in store , Which I freely will give thee , and twenty things more , If thou wilt be but willing to lie by my side , And be kind to thy master , the baker he cried . My chastity , master , shall never be sold , For your gawdy apparel , silk , silver , or gold ; I had rather be clothed in mean country grey , Than to be a lewd harlot both gawdy and gay ; Therefore , pray Sir be civil , you must be denied , I will not be your harlot , no , no , she replied . Said he , my sweet Susan , I love thee as life , I will make thee my darling , my jewel , my wife , All that ever I have in the world shall be thine , Let us marry , and then thou art lawfully mine . Tell me , art thou contented to be my fair bride ? I can never deny you , no , no , she replied . Now thus the old baker and Susan agreed To be married the very next morning with speed : Now a match so unequal scarce ever was seen , He was threescore and seven , and she but sixteen ; But so long as he made her his darling and bride , She could never deny him , no , no , she replied . He is aged , and therefore he cannot live long , Wherefore Susan resolves that she never will wrong Her old baker , but love him as well as she can ; When he is dead , then she'll marry a jolly young man ; And the wealth which he leaves her a husband will gain , Thus she'll have no great reason to weep and complain . Printed for J Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The West-Country Wedding : OR , Honest Susan ' s good Fortune , who resisting the Temptations of her aged Master the Baker , became his careful Bride , and Mistress of all his Treasure . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc Or , Found Boy , etc C Ome all you old Bakers , attend and give ear , While I sing you a ditty of Somersetshire , Where there lived and old miser , a baker by trade , Who did keep a young servant , a beautiful maid : Her he often entreated to lie by his side ; Oh be kind to thy master , the baker he cried . Said Susan , what kindness , sir , do you request ? He replied , in thy bosom to take a night's rest ; Which , if I may enjoy it , I solemny swear , I will treat thee to morrow at Michaelmas - fair ; Thou shalt have tarts and custards , with sherry beside , Then be kind to thy master , the baker he cried . O grant me what I do so earnestly crave , Then a new pair of holy day hose thou shalt have , And new shoes with silk ribbons , both gawdy and green : Would not this be a delicate sighed to be seen ? Therefore prithee be free , love , to lie by my side , And be kind to thy master , the baker he cried . Why should you desire the wanton to play ? Do but look of your locks , that are hoary and grey , Which will soon blast such found idle notions as these ; But I find by the sequel , old rats do love cheese ; Yet the thoughts of your actions I scorn and deride , I will never be your harlot , no , no , she replied . Your proffers I hope , I have grace to refuse ; Sir , a fig for your hose , and your holy day shoes ; I will never receive them , and therefore forebear , It's not you that shall catch me so soon in a snare ; You must seek for some other to lie by your side , For I'll never be your harlot , no , no , she replied . I'll buy thee a scarf and a farendine-gown , Full as rich and as gay as the best in the town . With a muff , fan , and likewise a topping commode , When the harvest and pleasure of love I have mowed ; Therefore prithee sweet Susan come lie by my side , And be kind to thy master , the baker replied . A chain of fine gold on my dear I'll bestow , Nay , I'll deck thee with laces and ribbons also ; I have likewise a diamond , sweet Susan in store , Which I freely will give thee , and twenty things more , If thou wilt be but willing to lie by my side , And be kind to thy master , the baker he cried . My chastity , master , shall never be sold , For your gawdy apparel , silk , silver , or gold ; I had rather be clothed in mean country grey , Than to be a lewd harlot both gawdy and gay ; Therefore , pray Sir be civil , you must be denied , I will not be your harlot , no , no , she replied . Said he , my sweet Susan , I love thee as life , I will make thee my darling , my jewel , my wife , All that ever I have in the world shall be thine , Let us marry , and then thou art lawfully mine . Tell me , art thou contented to be my fair bride ? I can never deny you , no , no , she replied . Now thus the old baker and Susan agreed To be married the very next morning with speed : Now a match so unequal scarce ever was seen , He was threescore and seven , and she but sixteen ; But so long as he made her his darling and bride , She could never deny him , no , no , she replied . He is aged , and therefore he cannot live long , Wherefore Susan resolves that she never will wrong Her old baker , but love him as well as she can ; When he is dead , then she'll marry a jolly young man ; And the wealth which he leaves her a husband will gain , Thus she'll have no great reason to weep and complain . Printed for J Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 