The Sorrowful Wife : OR , LOVE in a TUB . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R.P. A S I was abroad one night with a friend , he told me a pretty Relation , Which you shall hear if you'll stay till the end , it is the best now in the fashion : But take my advice before I begin , I'ld have you take care of your Purses ; For if a Minnow by chance should slip in , I'm sure you'll have none of my Verses . There was a Cooper a huffing young blade had god a good Wife with a Portion ; Oh! how did she wish she was still a Maid , or that there mi [ g ] ht be a Divo [ r ] cion ! For why ? he always did rant about , still seeking the Ladies of London , While his poor Wife at home did cry out , alas ! I am utterly undone . I Have been married many a year , yet cannot have that which is common : Though I did entreat him , I'm never the near , still he will lie by a strange woman . Let him alone , he roving goes on , he takes a full swing of his pleasure ; If you'll believe me , before he comes home , I'll make him repent it at leisure . Now Tom the Prentice was working alone , and herd all these passionate speeches ; He threw down his Tools and to her did come , and joyfully shoved up his Breeches . Mistress ( quoth he ) am I not your man ? be pleased for to tell me your sorrow , And I will cure it if that I can , nay , if I shall die fored to morrow . Ah Tommy , thou art a brisk young Youth , I like well thy amorous Ditty ; My duty ( quoth he ) is to please you forsooth , when my Master is void of all pity . Since my Master a bulling is gone , Oh let us make much of this hour ; But what if he in the mean time should come ? he certainly would us devour . He hardly had spoke , but some body came , who madman like did fallen a bouncing ; Oh Fire and Gunpowder ! how they both ran , poor Tommy at this fell a flouncing ; Oh Mistress , quoth he , where shall I go ? the fright did make them to quarrel : Oh Tommy , quoth she , I do not well know ; Oh creep into that empty Barrel . The Cooper as he was standing without did hear all this deadly clutter ; Now when he came in , quoth he , whats the rout [ Wife . ] Ah! the Cat has been at the Butter ; I no sooner perceived the jade , but I most hideously cries out ; I ran and thought for to make her afraid , but the Witch almost pissed my eyes out . Now Tommy my cruel shriekings did hear , and came to revenge my poor quarrel . But he ran away with a flay in his ear , and ran into that empty Barrel . Then quoth the Cooper , Tommy come out , here's a shilling to make thee and I friends For he did think something else was the rout , till that they did play Master by-ends . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The Sorrowful Wife : OR , LOVE in a TUB . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R.P. A S I was abroad one night with a friend , he told me a pretty Relation , Which you shall hear if you'll stay till the end , it is the best now in the fashion : But take my advice before I begin , I'ld have you take care of your Purses ; For if a Minnow by chance should slip in , I'm sure you'll have none of my Verses . There was a Cooper a huffing young blade had god a good Wife with a Portion ; Oh! how did she wish she was still a Maid , or that there mi [ g ] ht be a Divo [ r ] cion ! For why ? he always did rant about , still seeking the Ladies of London , While his poor Wife at home did cry out , alas ! I am utterly undone . I Have been married many a year , yet cannot have that which is common : Though I did entreat him , I'm never the near , still he will lie by a strange woman . Let him alone , he roving goes on , he takes a full swing of his pleasure ; If you'll believe me , before he comes home , I'll make him repent it at leisure . Now Tom the Prentice was working alone , and herd all these passionate speeches ; He threw down his Tools and to her did come , and joyfully shoved up his Breeches . Mistress ( quoth he ) am I not your man ? be pleased for to tell me your sorrow , And I will cure it if that I can , nay , if I shall die fored to morrow . Ah Tommy , thou art a brisk young Youth , I like well thy amorous Ditty ; My duty ( quoth he ) is to please you forsooth , when my Master is void of all pity . Since my Master a bulling is gone , Oh let us make much of this hour ; But what if he in the mean time should come ? he certainly would us devour . He hardly had spoke , but some body came , who madman like did fallen a bouncing ; Oh Fire and Gunpowder ! how they both ran , poor Tommy at this fell a flouncing ; Oh Mistress , quoth he , where shall I go ? the fright did make them to quarrel : Oh Tommy , quoth she , I do not well know ; Oh creep into that empty Barrel . The Cooper as he was standing without did hear all this deadly clutter ; Now when he came in , quoth he , whats the rout [ Wife . ] Ah! the Cat has been at the Butter ; I no sooner perceived the jade , but I most hideously cries out ; I ran and thought for to make her afraid , but the Witch almost pissed my eyes out . Now Tommy my cruel shriekings did hear , and came to revenge my poor quarrel . But he ran away with a flay in his ear , and ran into that empty Barrel . Then quoth the Cooper , Tommy come out , here's a shilling to make thee and I friends For he did think something else was the rout , till that they did play Master by-ends . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 