The Discontented BRIDE : OR , A brief Account of Will . the Baker , who Sowed himself up in a Blanket every Night going to Bed , for fear of Enlarging his Family . He was a Drone full well we know , that would not Sport or Play ; And he that serves a Woman so , may make her run astray . To the Tune of , The Maids a Washing themselves , etc This may be Printed , R.P. WILL the Baker a Wooing went , At length the Damsel did give consent , A fair young Creature , both witty and pretty , yet after her Marriage she did lament : And good reason she had to do so , Her heart was filled with grief and woe ; For after Marriage she still did complain , Her Maidenhead seven Months did remain . Though he lay by his Bride each Night , A fair young pattern of Beauty bright ; Yet he did nothing to please her , or ease her , as being sowed up in a Blanket tied : It was because he was ' fraid of his Charge , And that his Family would enlarge ; Full seven Months he had lain by her side , Poor Creature , her patience in this was tried . This old Blanket did cause much strife , Between the Baker and his fair Wife ; For while he wore it , her trouble grew double , what Woman was able to led this life ? Still she wished she might find out a way , This paltry Blanket to convey , Where he might never behold it no more , That she might enjoy what he had in store . B Ut one night among all the rest , When this poor Baker was quite undrest , He sought his Blanket to wind him , and bind him , but he of that Garment was dispossessed : She had hid it he could not tell where , Which made the Baker begin to Swear , And would not go to his Bed for Repose , Until she had brought him his Swadling-Cloaths When she see all her hope's were fled , In grief and trouble she went to Bed , Where she lay sighing , not sleeping , but weeping , a thousand times wishing she'd never been Wed : Yet he little regarded her moan , But snoring lay like a drowsy Drone , Wrapped up in his Blanket as tied as a pack , And never considered what she did lack . Well , said she , I'm resolved to find Some youthful Gallant to my own mind ; I'll never lie whining , perplexing and vexing , and thus I shall fit him but in his kind : For what Woman can wait at this rate ? I am resolved to choose a Mate , Some youthful Gallant of vext'rous skill , And then he may lie in his Blanket still . Then she walking abroad next day , In all her Silks and Rich Array ; A Ranting Gallant did meet her , and treat her , she had not the power to say him nay : In a Tavern some hours they spent , Where she enjoying her hearts content With this brave Gallant , whom she did adore , Who promised her many kind visits more . Though the Baker he did offend , Yet now her trouble is at and end ; She does not valve his Courting or Sporting , since she does enjoy a more loving Friend : In his Blanket he lies at his ease , While she may Revel it where she please , It is but reason without all dispute , If he will not , somebody else must do't . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . The Discontented BRIDE : OR , A brief Account of Will . the Baker , who Sowed himself up in a Blanket every Night going to Bed , for fear of Enlarging his Family . He was a Drone full well we know , that would not Sport or Play ; And he that serves a Woman so , may make her run astray . To the Tune of , The Maids a Washing themselves , etc This may be Printed , R.P. WILL the Baker a Wooing went , At length the Damsel did give consent , A fair young Creature , both witty and pretty , yet after her Marriage she did lament : And good reason she had to do so , Her heart was filled with grief and woe ; For after Marriage she still did complain , Her Maidenhead seven Months did remain . Though he lay by his Bride each Night , A fair young pattern of Beauty bright ; Yet he did nothing to please her , or ease her , as being sowed up in a Blanket tied : It was because he was ' fraid of his Charge , And that his Family would enlarge ; Full seven Months he had lain by her side , Poor Creature , her patience in this was tried . This old Blanket did cause much strife , Between the Baker and his fair Wife ; For while he wore it , her trouble grew double , what Woman was able to led this life ? Still she wished she might find out a way , This paltry Blanket to convey , Where he might never behold it no more , That she might enjoy what he had in store . B Ut one night among all the rest , When this poor Baker was quite undrest , He sought his Blanket to wind him , and bind him , but he of that Garment was dispossessed : She had hid it he could not tell where , Which made the Baker begin to Swear , And would not go to his Bed for Repose , Until she had brought him his Swadling-Cloaths When she see all her hope's were fled , In grief and trouble she went to Bed , Where she lay sighing , not sleeping , but weeping , a thousand times wishing she'd never been Wed : Yet he little regarded her moan , But snoring lay like a drowsy Drone , Wrapped up in his Blanket as tied as a pack , And never considered what she did lack . Well , said she , I'm resolved to find Some youthful Gallant to my own mind ; I'll never lie whining , perplexing and vexing , and thus I shall fit him but in his kind : For what Woman can wait at this rate ? I am resolved to choose a Mate , Some youthful Gallant of vext'rous skill , And then he may lie in his Blanket still . Then she walking abroad next day , In all her Silks and Rich Array ; A Ranting Gallant did meet her , and treat her , she had not the power to say him nay : In a Tavern some hours they spent , Where she enjoying her hearts content With this brave Gallant , whom she did adore , Who promised her many kind visits more . Though the Baker he did offend , Yet now her trouble is at and end ; She does not valve his Courting or Sporting , since she does enjoy a more loving Friend : In his Blanket he lies at his ease , While she may Revel it where she please , It is but reason without all dispute , If he will not , somebody else must do't . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 