FOLLY plainly made Manifest , BY And Extravagant Husband Being his kind Advice to all , of high or low Degree , lest they in Poverty do fallen , and bring themselves to misery To the Tune of , I have a Mistress of my own . B Ad husbands now I pray draw near , and also harken to my Ditty ; Of evil company beware , for if you don't the more's the pity : For by the same we plainly see , some men do work their own undoing , And bring themselves to poverty , and their poor Families to ruin . For those that do delight in it , would certainly increase their trouble Beside they dulsifie their wit , and add their sorrows ten times double For when that you have wasted all , they will certainly abuse you , When you in any troubles fallen , they will utterly refuse you . I do remember formerly , when I used the trade of drinking , My wife and I could not agree , for my pocket that was shrinking : Daily I did take much pains , yet my folly overruled me , The Alehouse then received the gains , and in my trouble they did fool me . My Wife with tears persuaded me , but I afforded her no pity , But gave my self such liberty , I rambled thorough Town and City : Thus my wife and Children small , they might weep till they were weary , While I for Liquour freely called , with which I made my heart full merry TO Hus my wife and children small , they had nothing to relieve them , When they to her for Bred did call , she had never a bit to give them : Then her sorrows they were great , she with tears did much lament it , To see her poor unhappy state , and knows not how to be contented . The Alewives kindness to him in a time of Trouble . At length I being out of work , they did much deride and flout me , And said that I was but a shark , and they had rather been without me : Thus when I did stand in need , all my former friends did slight me , Which made my very heart to bleed , I had nothing to delight me . But I made a vow therefore , in the heat of my vexation , I'll set a cross upon their door , and then i'll find my habitation : My life I will begin a new , what I do get i'll save together , The Proverb old is very true , a penny is good in rainy weather . All company I have forsook , and Alehouses where I did lie at , And better courses I have took , which brings me to much peace & amp ; quiet ; I'll be a Husband to my wife , and I will do my best endeavour , To have the Comfort of our life , and live in love like lambs together . I very seldom had my health , beside the charge of my expenses , I often was beside my self , for drinking robbed me of my senses : I'll never do the like again , I will utterly refrain them , The Hostess s [ he ] shall fit and Spin , for they are fools that will maintain them . Let all bad husbands mend with speed , before old age does overtake you . For when you most do stand in need , your feigned friends will quite forsake you When your youthful strength is past , you will be from them quite absented , Griefs and sorrows comes at last , then too late you may repent it . FINIS . Entered according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . FOLLY plainly made Manifest , BY And Extravagant Husband Being his kind Advice to all , of high or low Degree , lest they in Poverty do fallen , and bring themselves to misery To the Tune of , I have a Mistress of my own . B Ad husbands now I pray draw near , and also harken to my Ditty ; Of evil company beware , for if you don't the more's the pity : For by the same we plainly see , some men do work their own undoing , And bring themselves to poverty , and their poor Families to ruin . For those that do delight in it , would certainly increase their trouble Beside they dulsifie their wit , and add their sorrows ten times double For when that you have wasted all , they will certainly abuse you , When you in any troubles fallen , they will utterly refuse you . I do remember formerly , when I used the trade of drinking , My wife and I could not agree , for my pocket that was shrinking : Daily I did take much pains , yet my folly overruled me , The Alehouse then received the gains , and in my trouble they did fool me . My Wife with tears persuaded me , but I afforded her no pity , But gave my self such liberty , I rambled thorough Town and City : Thus my wife and Children small , they might weep till they were weary , While I for Liquour freely called , with which I made my heart full merry TO Hus my wife and children small , they had nothing to relieve them , When they to her for Bred did call , she had never a bit to give them : Then her sorrows they were great , she with tears did much lament it , To see her poor unhappy state , and knows not how to be contented . The Alewives kindness to him in a time of Trouble . At length I being out of work , they did much deride and flout me , And said that I was but a shark , and they had rather been without me : Thus when I did stand in need , all my former friends did slight me , Which made my very heart to bleed , I had nothing to delight me . But I made a vow therefore , in the heat of my vexation , I'll set a cross upon their door , and then i'll find my habitation : My life I will begin a new , what I do get i'll save together , The Proverb old is very true , a penny is good in rainy weather . All company I have forsook , and Alehouses where I did lie at , And better courses I have took , which brings me to much peace & amp ; quiet ; I'll be a Husband to my wife , and I will do my best endeavour , To have the Comfort of our life , and live in love like lambs together . I very seldom had my health , beside the charge of my expenses , I often was beside my self , for drinking robbed me of my senses : I'll never do the like again , I will utterly refrain them , The Hostess s [ he ] shall fit and Spin , for they are fools that will maintain them . Let all bad husbands mend with speed , before old age does overtake you . For when you most do stand in need , your feigned friends will quite forsake you When your youthful strength is past , you will be from them quite absented , Griefs and sorrows comes at last , then too late you may repent it . FINIS . Entered according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 