And ANSWER To the London CUCKOLD , L ately fitted with a large pair of HORNS of the New Fashion , which his Wife made him in the time of his Riding to Hounslow-Heath . With and Account of his languishing under the Burden of his New Headpiece . Together with his Wives faithful promise of seeking out for a speedy Cure for his lamentable di - stemper . To the Tune of , Oh Mother , Roger . This may be Printed , R.P. I Pray now listen to my Ditty I shall weep for evermore , All my neighbours now take pity , I had never such Horns before : How my head does throb and ache , And my heart with grief will break , I am woefully possessed , Night and day I take no rest : Oh when I went the Camp to see , would I had took my Wife with me . Most bitterly I have lamented , Oh unhappy rigid Fate , Once I thought to be contented , but I find my grief so great , That there's none alive does know What I feel and undergo , I was loath the Horn to blow , But my heart is sunk full low : Oh when I went the Camp to see , would I had took my Wife with me . Dear Husband , let this be observed , never grieve for what is past , You are not the first so served , no , nor will not be the last , Though thou wertenberg a Cuckold made , It was by a ranting blade , Who most richly was arrayed , We shall have a thriving trade ; For they that gains my kind goodwill , must bring ready Money still . Beside , I will not be so common , I resolve to pick and choose , As I am and honest woman , I will never thee abuse , But wi [ l ] l stroke thy aged brows , Like a tender loving spouse , Though a wanton trick I showed , Love it is the London mode , TO hen prithee take it patiently , And I will be a help to thee . I pray what is a Shop in London , but a place of care and strife , He that keeps it may be undone , if he han't a handsome Wife , For a beauty fair and gay , In their Silks and rich array , Like a tractive Loadstone they , Draw in custom day by day , TO hen Husband pray contented be , and I will be a help to thee . Wife tell me not of Gold or treasure , I have neither peace nor rest , Nor in Wealth can take no pleasure , while I wear this horned Crest , For where ever I walk the street , There is very few I meet , But with me will play the wag , Hunt and course me like a stag , Oh when I went to the Camp to see , would I had took my Wife with me . Why love they are but newly started , as the very truth I tell . Therefore be not thus deadhearted , they become you passing well , Count it not as a disgrace , For as I am in this place , They adorn your aged face , With a more then common grace , And when they ride to Charlton-Fair , thou shalt be a Captain there . We see how many daily flourish , that are of the horned crew , Yet their loving Wives they'll nourish though theyv'e made um worse then you Therefore fear not fortune's frown , Why should you be thus cast down , Thou hast Brother's in the Town , Worse distempered in the crown , Sweet Wife I own all this may be , but Horns will not agree with me . Well Husband if you cannot bear it , I have gold and Silver sure , For thy sake i'll freely spare it , and seek out for speedy cure ; There's and able Doctor then , Which has cured the worst of men , Nay i'll tell you likewise , when They were threescore years and ten , If now in town the Doctor be , i'm sure he's cure thee perfectly . P rinted for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . And ANSWER To the London CUCKOLD , L ately fitted with a large pair of HORNS of the New Fashion , which his Wife made him in the time of his Riding to Hounslow-Heath . With and Account of his languishing under the Burden of his New Headpiece . Together with his Wives faithful promise of seeking out for a speedy Cure for his lamentable di - stemper . To the Tune of , Oh Mother , Roger . This may be Printed , R.P. I Pray now listen to my Ditty I shall weep for evermore , All my neighbours now take pity , I had never such Horns before : How my head does throb and ache , And my heart with grief will break , I am woefully possessed , Night and day I take no rest : Oh when I went the Camp to see , would I had took my Wife with me . Most bitterly I have lamented , Oh unhappy rigid Fate , Once I thought to be contented , but I find my grief so great , That there's none alive does know What I feel and undergo , I was loath the Horn to blow , But my heart is sunk full low : Oh when I went the Camp to see , would I had took my Wife with me . Dear Husband , let this be observed , never grieve for what is past , You are not the first so served , no , nor will not be the last , Though thou wertenberg a Cuckold made , It was by a ranting blade , Who most richly was arrayed , We shall have a thriving trade ; For they that gains my kind goodwill , must bring ready Money still . Beside , I will not be so common , I resolve to pick and choose , As I am and honest woman , I will never thee abuse , But wi [ l ] l stroke thy aged brows , Like a tender loving spouse , Though a wanton trick I showed , Love it is the London mode , TO hen prithee take it patiently , And I will be a help to thee . I pray what is a Shop in London , but a place of care and strife , He that keeps it may be undone , if he han't a handsome Wife , For a beauty fair and gay , In their Silks and rich array , Like a tractive Loadstone they , Draw in custom day by day , TO hen Husband pray contented be , and I will be a help to thee . Wife tell me not of Gold or treasure , I have neither peace nor rest , Nor in Wealth can take no pleasure , while I wear this horned Crest , For where ever I walk the street , There is very few I meet , But with me will play the wag , Hunt and course me like a stag , Oh when I went to the Camp to see , would I had took my Wife with me . Why love they are but newly started , as the very truth I tell . Therefore be not thus deadhearted , they become you passing well , Count it not as a disgrace , For as I am in this place , They adorn your aged face , With a more then common grace , And when they ride to Charlton-Fair , thou shalt be a Captain there . We see how many daily flourish , that are of the horned crew , Yet their loving Wives they'll nourish though theyv'e made um worse then you Therefore fear not fortune's frown , Why should you be thus cast down , Thou hast Brother's in the Town , Worse distempered in the crown , Sweet Wife I own all this may be , but Horns will not agree with me . Well Husband if you cannot bear it , I have gold and Silver sure , For thy sake i'll freely spare it , and seek out for speedy cure ; There's and able Doctor then , Which has cured the worst of men , Nay i'll tell you likewise , when They were threescore years and ten , If now in town the Doctor be , i'm sure he's cure thee perfectly . P rinted for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 