The Scolding WIFE , OR , The Poor men Lamentation of his bad M arket in his choosing him a wife [ TO ] he Poor men Sorrows and Disquiet of Mind , [ A ] re turned to Comforts , since his Wife fell blind . It was his Old Sweetheart that stood his Friend , And caused his Wife her Life to amend . To a New Play-House Tune . Licensed according to Order . W As there ever any Man so plagued with a Trul , As I poor Anthony : since I was wed ; No sooner I gets my Belly full , But straight she will hast me up to Bed ; Or , alas , she'll begin for to scold and to brawl , And call me Rogue and Cuckold with all , The while she with her comrades do tear it about , Then I lies in bed and Snore it out . It's all the Money that I get in a Day , for to keep at quiet , I give her at night : Or alas , she will find such a Tongue for to blay ; that for two or three hours , she will scold like a Spirit . Then up to the Cubbart Pilgarlick does high , For to look for the Crumbs , that are long lain a Rye , And to steep them in skim-milk , while they are wet : And this is the common Supper I do get . Then when I consider the sadness I am in , it grieves me to the Heart most bitterly and soar ; Still expecting the worst of my sorrow to begin , being now I am fast tied to a Scold and a Whore : Then to Patience , for to stand my best friend ; I knowing it is but in vain to contend , Far fe [ a ? ] r lest the Tongue's , or the Ladel being nigh ; Which straightway in her passion at my Head she lets fly . Once in a Month , for Fashion-sake ; she will allow me , for to come to her Bed ; But all the night there , I do keep me awake ; for fear lest in her fits she should knack me on the head : And as for the bed , that I lie on my self , It is as hard as and Oken-shlef ; And the Ticking it is made of the good Hemp-cords ; But yet for all this , I must give her good words . Sometime we did use for to piss in a Pan , but the Cullender did chance for to stand in the place ; She took it up into her Hand , and spilled it about my Stomach and Face : I told her that she Pist beside , But she called me Rogue . and told me I lied ; For it was not come for to touch her Thumb ; And she took it , and she halled it in the middle of the room . It was one that had been my Sweetheart before ; she came to the door for to borrow a Pale ; I Kissed her once , and I thought of no more : but my Wife fell about her Tooth and Nail : The Girl stuck to her , and she clawed her about , That for a Months space she could scarcely stir out ; For her Face was so scratched , and her Eyes so soar , That I never see a Jade so mald before . And then she god me for to drop in her Eyes , and excellent water was sent her that day ; But I god a liquour , I more did prize ; 'twas Henben and Marcury steeped in Whay : I dropped it in , and I anointed her Face , But I made the Whore in a pitiful case ; For she Cursed and Swore , well she might , For never since that day she god her sighed . And then I provided a Dog and Bell , to carry her about , from place to place : Then she cries Husband , I hope all is well : But before it was Rogue , add Cuckolds to my Face . Then blessed be the Henben , and Marcury strong , They made such a change in my Wives Tongue ; For it is a Medicine beth certain and sure , To be cured of a Scold , but I'll say no more . Printed for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-Bailey . 1689. The Scolding WIFE , OR , The Poor men Lamentation of his bad M arket in his choosing him a wife [ TO ] he Poor men Sorrows and Disquiet of Mind , [ A ] re turned to Comforts , since his Wife fell blind . It was his Old Sweetheart that stood his Friend , And caused his Wife her Life to amend . To a New Play-House Tune . Licensed according to Order . W As there ever any Man so plagued with a Trul , As I poor Anthony : since I was wed ; No sooner I gets my Belly full , But straight she will hast me up to Bed ; Or , alas , she'll begin for to scold and to brawl , And call me Rogue and Cuckold with all , The while she with her comrades do tear it about , Then I lies in bed and Snore it out . It's all the Money that I get in a Day , for to keep at quiet , I give her at night : Or alas , she will find such a Tongue for to blay ; that for two or three hours , she will scold like a Spirit . Then up to the Cubbart Pilgarlick does high , For to look for the Crumbs , that are long lain a Rye , And to steep them in skim-milk , while they are wet : And this is the common Supper I do get . Then when I consider the sadness I am in , it grieves me to the Heart most bitterly and soar ; Still expecting the worst of my sorrow to begin , being now I am fast tied to a Scold and a Whore : Then to Patience , for to stand my best friend ; I knowing it is but in vain to contend , Far fe [ a ? ] r lest the Tongue's , or the Ladel being nigh ; Which straightway in her passion at my Head she lets fly . Once in a Month , for Fashion-sake ; she will allow me , for to come to her Bed ; But all the night there , I do keep me awake ; for fear lest in her fits she should knack me on the head : And as for the bed , that I lie on my self , It is as hard as and Oken-shlef ; And the Ticking it is made of the good Hemp-cords ; But yet for all this , I must give her good words . Sometime we did use for to piss in a Pan , but the Cullender did chance for to stand in the place ; She took it up into her Hand , and spilled it about my Stomach and Face : I told her that she Pist beside , But she called me Rogue . and told me I lied ; For it was not come for to touch her Thumb ; And she took it , and she halled it in the middle of the room . It was one that had been my Sweetheart before ; she came to the door for to borrow a Pale ; I Kissed her once , and I thought of no more : but my Wife fell about her Tooth and Nail : The Girl stuck to her , and she clawed her about , That for a Months space she could scarcely stir out ; For her Face was so scratched , and her Eyes so soar , That I never see a Jade so mald before . And then she god me for to drop in her Eyes , and excellent water was sent her that day ; But I god a liquour , I more did prize ; 'twas Henben and Marcury steeped in Whay : I dropped it in , and I anointed her Face , But I made the Whore in a pitiful case ; For she Cursed and Swore , well she might , For never since that day she god her sighed . And then I provided a Dog and Bell , to carry her about , from place to place : Then she cries Husband , I hope all is well : But before it was Rogue , add Cuckolds to my Face . Then blessed be the Henben , and Marcury strong , They made such a change in my Wives Tongue ; For it is a Medicine beth certain and sure , To be cured of a Scold , but I'll say no more . Printed for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-Bailey . 1689. 