The Penitent Gallant , Being , And Account of a Gentleman who lay Condemned for the Murder of his Friend , and pretended he could not die till he had eased his Con - science , in sending for thirteen Men , to beg their Pardons , whom he had Cuckolded at Branford . Tune of , Hide Park . TO Here was , I must tell you , a Jocular Spark , who Rambled and Revealed at pleasure , Young Women he often would kiss in the Dark , and tickle their Giggs out of measure ; He being a wanton young frolicsome Blade , He was so well skilled in the Courtesan Trade , That in seven Weeks he declared that he made full thirteen poor Cuckolds in Branford . As honest good Christians as ever broke Bred , dear friends , I would have you believe it , Though each Man had lusty large Horns on his Head , alas ! they could no way perceive it ; Concluding their Wives to be honest and Chaste , Sweet Women , that hated a wanton Embrace ; Yet now after all you may pity the Case of the thirteen poor Cuckolds of Branford . These Cuckolds did love this young Fop as their lives , in Taverns they tippled together , In Corners he kissed , and made much of their Wives , whose Heels was as light as a Feather ; They were not the Rabble , I'de have you to know , But delicate Women as plump as a Doe , Then listen a while and the Horns you'll hear blow of the thirteen poor Cuckolds of Branford . But if you would know how this Mischief came out , I pray now attend to the Ditty , This Gallant he murdered a Man brave and stout , in cool Blood , the more was the pity : And while he in Prison Condemned did lie , In sad Lamentation he often did cry , He must ease his Conscience before he could die , concerning these Cuckolds of Branford . He told them that he was tormented in mind , the Gilded like sharp Arrows run through him . Beseeching the Keeper he would be so kind , as to send for these men to come to him ; Right earnestly he for this favour did plead , The Keeper he could not deny him indeed , And therefore to Newgate they sent for with speed , the thirteen poor Cuckolds of Branford . So soon as the Keeper he sent for them then to come to the Gallant in Prison , It was and astonishment to these poor Men , who wondered what might be the reason , But knowing him to be their Friend , they presume , To mount Roan and Dobbin , for Newgate they come , Not thinking that he had put Pope into Rome , and made them the Cuckolds of Branford . As these thirteen Cuckolds did enter the Goal , it almost bereft them of Senses , The Gallant he begged with a pitiful Tale , a pardon for all his offenses , Said he , and Extravagant Raze I have run , Forgive me the Injuries which I have done , Alas ! I have wronged you every one , My Cronyes in private in Branford . We know not wherein you have wronged us , they cried the valve or weight of a farthing ; But if you will tell us the Truth , they replied , you shall have our absolute Pardon ; The Gallant did then on his marrowbones fallen , And said , your good Wives they have been at my Call , So that in a word I have Cuckold you all , while I did inhabit at Branford . With shaking their Noddles they turned them about , the foremost was Cuthbert the Hatter , Now as in a body they came trooping out , the People cried , What is the matter ? A Keeper that followed , said clear the way wide , Pray what do you think they should be , he replied , But good honest Christians , not Men that are Tried , the thirteen poor Cuckolds of Branford . Licensed according to Order . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern i [ n ] West-Smithfield . The Penitent Gallant , Being , And Account of a Gentleman who lay Condemned for the Murder of his Friend , and pretended he could not die till he had eased his Con - science , in sending for thirteen Men , to beg their Pardons , whom he had Cuckolded at Branford . Tune of , Hide Park . TO Here was , I must tell you , a Jocular Spark , who Rambled and Revealed at pleasure , Young Women he often would kiss in the Dark , and tickle their Giggs out of measure ; He being a wanton young frolicsome Blade , He was so well skilled in the Courtesan Trade , That in seven Weeks he declared that he made full thirteen poor Cuckolds in Branford . As honest good Christians as ever broke Bred , dear friends , I would have you believe it , Though each Man had lusty large Horns on his Head , alas ! they could no way perceive it ; Concluding their Wives to be honest and Chaste , Sweet Women , that hated a wanton Embrace ; Yet now after all you may pity the Case of the thirteen poor Cuckolds of Branford . These Cuckolds did love this young Fop as their lives , in Taverns they tippled together , In Corners he kissed , and made much of their Wives , whose Heels was as light as a Feather ; They were not the Rabble , I'de have you to know , But delicate Women as plump as a Doe , Then listen a while and the Horns you'll hear blow of the thirteen poor Cuckolds of Branford . But if you would know how this Mischief came out , I pray now attend to the Ditty , This Gallant he murdered a Man brave and stout , in cool Blood , the more was the pity : And while he in Prison Condemned did lie , In sad Lamentation he often did cry , He must ease his Conscience before he could die , concerning these Cuckolds of Branford . He told them that he was tormented in mind , the Gilded like sharp Arrows run through him . Beseeching the Keeper he would be so kind , as to send for these men to come to him ; Right earnestly he for this favour did plead , The Keeper he could not deny him indeed , And therefore to Newgate they sent for with speed , the thirteen poor Cuckolds of Branford . So soon as the Keeper he sent for them then to come to the Gallant in Prison , It was and astonishment to these poor Men , who wondered what might be the reason , But knowing him to be their Friend , they presume , To mount Roan and Dobbin , for Newgate they come , Not thinking that he had put Pope into Rome , and made them the Cuckolds of Branford . As these thirteen Cuckolds did enter the Goal , it almost bereft them of Senses , The Gallant he begged with a pitiful Tale , a pardon for all his offenses , Said he , and Extravagant Raze I have run , Forgive me the Injuries which I have done , Alas ! I have wronged you every one , My Cronyes in private in Branford . We know not wherein you have wronged us , they cried the valve or weight of a farthing ; But if you will tell us the Truth , they replied , you shall have our absolute Pardon ; The Gallant did then on his marrowbones fallen , And said , your good Wives they have been at my Call , So that in a word I have Cuckold you all , while I did inhabit at Branford . With shaking their Noddles they turned them about , the foremost was Cuthbert the Hatter , Now as in a body they came trooping out , the People cried , What is the matter ? A Keeper that followed , said clear the way wide , Pray what do you think they should be , he replied , But good honest Christians , not Men that are Tried , the thirteen poor Cuckolds of Branford . Licensed according to Order . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern i [ n ] West-Smithfield . 