The Scolding Wives Vindication : OR , And ANSWER to the CUCKOLD'S COMPLAINT Wherein she shows what just Reasons she had to exercise Severity over her insufficient Husband . To the Tune of , The Cuckold's Complaint . Licensed according to Order . I Have been abused of late , by some of the Poet's Crew , Who says , I broke my Husband's Pate , but this I did never do . It's true I his Ears did cuff , and gave him Kick or two ; For this I had just Cause enough , because he would nothing do . He's lain like a Log of Wood , in Bed , for a year or two , And wont afford me any good , he nothing at all would do . I am in my blooming Prime , dear Neighbours I tell you true , I am lost to lose my Teeming Time , yet nothing at all he'll do . He says that I keep a Friend , but what if I did keep two , There's no one can me discommend , for nothing , etc . I make it full well appear , to be both just and true , I kept my Maidenhead Two Year , for nothing at all he'd do . Sometime he'd give me a Kiss , and I would return him two , But when he comes to farther Bliss he nothing at all would do . I am a young Buxom Dame , and fain would my Joys renew , But my poor Cuckold is to blame , he nothing , etc . He says I have him abused , but what if this same be true ? For this I may be well excused , since nothing , etc . Sure never was Wife so fooled as I , for a year or two ; I did for him whatever I could , yet nothing , etc . I feasted him every day , with Lamb-stones , and Cock-broths too , Yet all this Cost was thrown away , he nothing , etc . I feed him with Jelly of Chicks , and curious Egg-Caudles too , I'se good feed him with Faggot-sticks , for nothing , etc . He lies like a lump of Clay , such Husbands there is but few , 'Twould make a Woman run astray , when nothing , etc . Now now let him take his ease , and sleep while the Sky looks blue , I have a Friend my mind to please , since nothing , etc . Long , long , have I lived at strife , I kicked , and I cuffed him too , He's like to live no better Life , since nothing at all he'll do . I solemnly do declare , believe me this is true , He shall dig Gravel next Horn-Fair , and that he is like to do . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Scolding Wives Vindication : OR , And ANSWER to the CUCKOLD'S COMPLAINT Wherein she shows what just Reasons she had to exercise Severity over her insufficient Husband . To the Tune of , The Cuckold's Complaint . Licensed according to Order . I Have been abused of late , by some of the Poet's Crew , Who says , I broke my Husband's Pate , but this I did never do . It's true I his Ears did cuff , and gave him Kick or two ; For this I had just Cause enough , because he would nothing do . He's lain like a Log of Wood , in Bed , for a year or two , And wont afford me any good , he nothing at all would do . I am in my blooming Prime , dear Neighbours I tell you true , I am lost to lose my Teeming Time , yet nothing at all he'll do . He says that I keep a Friend , but what if I did keep two , There's no one can me discommend , for nothing , etc . I make it full well appear , to be both just and true , I kept my Maidenhead Two Year , for nothing at all he'd do . Sometime he'd give me a Kiss , and I would return him two , But when he comes to farther Bliss he nothing at all would do . I am a young Buxom Dame , and fain would my Joys renew , But my poor Cuckold is to blame , he nothing , etc . He says I have him abused , but what if this same be true ? For this I may be well excused , since nothing , etc . Sure never was Wife so fooled as I , for a year or two ; I did for him whatever I could , yet nothing , etc . I feasted him every day , with Lamb-stones , and Cock-broths too , Yet all this Cost was thrown away , he nothing , etc . I feed him with Jelly of Chicks , and curious Egg-Caudles too , I'se good feed him with Faggot-sticks , for nothing , etc . He lies like a lump of Clay , such Husbands there is but few , 'Twould make a Woman run astray , when nothing , etc . Now now let him take his ease , and sleep while the Sky looks blue , I have a Friend my mind to please , since nothing , etc . Long , long , have I lived at strife , I kicked , and I cuffed him too , He's like to live no better Life , since nothing at all he'll do . I solemnly do declare , believe me this is true , He shall dig Gravel next Horn-Fair , and that he is like to do . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 