The Lancashire Cuckold : OR , THE Country Parish-Clark betrayed by a Conjurer's Enchanted Chamber-pot . To the Tune of , Found boy , etc Licensed according to Order , A Lancashire Farmer he had a fair Wife , Whom the Clark of the Parish did love as life ; In the pleasures of Love they would frolic and play , Now her kind loving Husband grew jealous they say : To a cunning Man therefore the Farmer did go , To be told whither he was a Cuckold or no . The Conjurer cried , If my counsel you'll take , Then tomorrow right pleasant good sport I will make , For I have a strong Charm that will lock them all fast , And as pleasant a Pipe , that at every blast , All that hears it shall caper and dance too and from , And you'll find by this if you're Cuckold or no . Go tell your kind Wife you must ride out with speed ; And you shall not return till the next day indeed ; Now to keep yourself warm take your cloak and your gown ; There's and old hollow Oak half a mile out of Town , In that very same Tree if you lodge but all night , The next morning I'll show you a delicate sighed . The Farmer resolving this project to try , With the Conjurer's humour he straight did comply ; Having told his sweet Wife he must ride out of Town , She began with a sorrowful sighs to look down : Yet his back being turned , for her Gallant she sent , That all night they might revel in joys with content . Against the Clark's coming , a capon she dressed , Unto which they had humming March-beer of the best , When the S [ u ] pper was ended , to bed they did high , All the night in their wanton embraces to lie ; But before the next morning there was a strange rout . Which the cunning Man he by his Charms brought about . The Conjuring-Schollar god in by his skill , Where he lay full as safe as a Thief in a mill ; In the Pisspot he fixed such a Charm at the last , That who ever touched the same should be sure to stick fast ; Now the Clark to make water near morning did rise , Then the Pisspot was locked fast betwixt his two thighs . The Farmer's far Wife she rose up in her shift , For to help her poor Lover out at a dead lift ; On his delicate Dildoul her right hand she god , With the left hand she seized on the side of the Pot , Where she tugged and she pulled till she made her arms ache , For she likewise stuck fast like a Bear to a stake . In this sad distress with her foot she did knock , then her Daughter she straightways run up in her smock . Quoth the Mother , Girl , help us and make no excuse , Sure the Pot is bewitched for we cannot get lose ; Pretty Nancy endeavoured to set them both free , But as soon as she touched it they stuck there all three . The cunning Man opened the door , being day , On his Conjuring pipe he began for to play ; Naked all but their shifts they did caper and dance Through the Town , till they met with a Tailor by chance Who would needs break the Pot , being lusty and strong , But he stuck fast and likewise went dancing along . He piping did led them along the highway , Till they came to a place where her Husband he lay ; Who when hearing a noise , he peeped out of the Oak Like a Man that was frighted , the first words he spoke , He cried , What my friend Richard the good Parish-Clark Is it you then that tickles my Wife in the dark . Now when they had capered three times round the Oak , Then the Spell or Enchantment immediately broke ; The poor Tailor he run , but the Clark stayed behind . Quoth the Farmer , By you I'm a Cuckold I find ; If for this foul offence , I am not satisfied , I'll immediately whip out your nutmegs , he cried . The Clark he did proffer to give him ten pound , For it was but a trespass , he said , on his ground ; But the Farmer no less then a hundred would have , And the other did give it his Nutmegs to save ; Their apparel was sent for , and when they were dressed , They went all to the Alehouse , and lauged at the jest . London : Printed for J. Blare , on London-bridge . The Lancashire Cuckold : OR , THE Country Parish-Clark betrayed by a Conjurer's Enchanted Chamber-pot . To the Tune of , Found boy , etc Licensed according to Order , A Lancashire Farmer he had a fair Wife , Whom the Clark of the Parish did love as life ; In the pleasures of Love they would frolic and play , Now her kind loving Husband grew jealous they say : To a cunning Man therefore the Farmer did go , To be told whither he was a Cuckold or no . The Conjurer cried , If my counsel you'll take , Then tomorrow right pleasant good sport I will make , For I have a strong Charm that will lock them all fast , And as pleasant a Pipe , that at every blast , All that hears it shall caper and dance too and from , And you'll find by this if you're Cuckold or no . Go tell your kind Wife you must ride out with speed ; And you shall not return till the next day indeed ; Now to keep yourself warm take your cloak and your gown ; There's and old hollow Oak half a mile out of Town , In that very same Tree if you lodge but all night , The next morning I'll show you a delicate sighed . The Farmer resolving this project to try , With the Conjurer's humour he straight did comply ; Having told his sweet Wife he must ride out of Town , She began with a sorrowful sighs to look down : Yet his back being turned , for her Gallant she sent , That all night they might revel in joys with content . Against the Clark's coming , a capon she dressed , Unto which they had humming March-beer of the best , When the S [ u ] pper was ended , to bed they did high , All the night in their wanton embraces to lie ; But before the next morning there was a strange rout . Which the cunning Man he by his Charms brought about . The Conjuring-Schollar god in by his skill , Where he lay full as safe as a Thief in a mill ; In the Pisspot he fixed such a Charm at the last , That who ever touched the same should be sure to stick fast ; Now the Clark to make water near morning did rise , Then the Pisspot was locked fast betwixt his two thighs . The Farmer's far Wife she rose up in her shift , For to help her poor Lover out at a dead lift ; On his delicate Dildoul her right hand she god , With the left hand she seized on the side of the Pot , Where she tugged and she pulled till she made her arms ache , For she likewise stuck fast like a Bear to a stake . In this sad distress with her foot she did knock , then her Daughter she straightways run up in her smock . Quoth the Mother , Girl , help us and make no excuse , Sure the Pot is bewitched for we cannot get lose ; Pretty Nancy endeavoured to set them both free , But as soon as she touched it they stuck there all three . The cunning Man opened the door , being day , On his Conjuring pipe he began for to play ; Naked all but their shifts they did caper and dance Through the Town , till they met with a Tailor by chance Who would needs break the Pot , being lusty and strong , But he stuck fast and likewise went dancing along . He piping did led them along the highway , Till they came to a place where her Husband he lay ; Who when hearing a noise , he peeped out of the Oak Like a Man that was frighted , the first words he spoke , He cried , What my friend Richard the good Parish-Clark Is it you then that tickles my Wife in the dark . Now when they had capered three times round the Oak , Then the Spell or Enchantment immediately broke ; The poor Tailor he run , but the Clark stayed behind . Quoth the Farmer , By you I'm a Cuckold I find ; If for this foul offence , I am not satisfied , I'll immediately whip out your nutmegs , he cried . The Clark he did proffer to give him ten pound , For it was but a trespass , he said , on his ground ; But the Farmer no less then a hundred would have , And the other did give it his Nutmegs to save ; Their apparel was sent for , and when they were dressed , They went all to the Alehouse , and lauged at the jest . London : Printed for J. Blare , on London-bridge . 