The Clothworker caught in a Trap : Or , A Fool and his Money soon parted . Being a true Relation of a Cloth worker , dweelling in Thames-street who was wished by and old woe - man to a Maid near Pauls Churchyard , persuading him she had money at use , being a mere Plot of the Maiden and she to cheat him of his Money , knowing him to be none of the wisest , cheated him of forty pound . if you will know then give good Ear , The merriest Jest that e'r you did hear . The Tune is , How now Jockey whither away . Or the Tyrant . C God people I'll tell , you now of a fine jest , Which now unto you shall here be expressed , You shall know how I have been cozened of late , By her whom I called my Love and my Mute : She made me a promise she would be my Bride , But I have lost her and my Money beside . There was and old Woman did wish me unto her , And I , like a woodcok , must needs go and woe her , I bought me new clothes , boots and silver spurs , The cause why I missed her the fault it was hers . She made , etc My sweetheart was wondrous gallant & amp ; spruce , She made me believe she had money at use , My fingers did itch to be at her coin , As hoping the money and she should be mine . She made , etc I followed her closely by day and by night , The hope of her Money was all my delight : But when she perceived my greedy intent , A trick for to cheat me she then did invent , She made , etc She knew I had money , and she had the wit , To cozen me of it she thought it most fit . O she was to [ hard for ] me in the end , God keep me hereafter from such a false friend . She made , etc She sent the old Woman upon and ill day , She came unto me , and thus she did say , Your Sweetheart [ is tO ] aching the Lease of a house . The which does be [ long ] to old Nicholas Rouse . She made , etc Her Money's at use , and out of her hands , That she cannot purch [ a ] se Houses nor Lands . But if forty pound y [ oh ] u will lend her in lain , Lo she will make over the house unto you . I looked for the house and likewise the Bride , etc I was overjoyed when I herd her say so , I gave her the Money without more ado , Forty good pounds she cozened me of , And now at my misery make but a scoff . She made me a Promise she would be my Bride , But I have lost her and my Money beside . I Told all my Neighbours I merry would be , my sweetheart had purchased a house now for me Though I lent her money her cause to prefer , Yet I should have all when I married with her . Thus a promise she made me for to be my Bride , But I have lost her and my Money beside . At length I did find that I was overmatched , I reckoned my Chickens before they were hatched , I found to my grief I was wronged God wot , By a young Harlot and and old old Trot . This cunning old woman , my Sweetheart & amp ; she Did make but a younger Brother of me , For when as I went to visit my Dove , She would not come near me , nor grant me her Love She said her affection was altered quite , And she bid me be packing now out of her sighed , She made , etc Fair Mistress , quoth I , what moves this change ? And what is the reason you should be so strange ; If you be resolved to leave me , sweet Jane , I pray then restore me my Money again . Now all men that here me pity my case , For I have lost all by her being base . She would not be known that my Money she had , But asked the question , if that I were man ? The old Woman had it , quoth I , for your use : Then you may go look it , quod she , goodman Goose . She made , etc If you were so foolish to give her your Coin , Who came in my name , the fault is not mine : Oh learn you more wit hereafter , I pray . Seek out your old woman , if you'd have your pa [ y ] And since thou wantest wit thou shalt want a wife For I'll never have thee while that I have life . When as she had given me these purging Plumb [ s ] I stood like sheepbiter by [ tO ] ing my Thumbs , It made me to fret , to fume , and to stare , Just like the Bull that bewrayed the Fair . That all that beheld me thought I was mad , Beholding my staring and countenance sad . She shoved me out then , and locked the door , Now was ever man so abused before , Unless 'twere the Grafter , I never knew the like , Next morning she sent me a Feather-bed-like . She made , etc She sent me a Featherbed then in disdain , When as she herd how I did complain , To rest my restless body , upon , After the Baggage had me undone . She made , etc She sent me a Bed in height of my pride , But she was too good to lie by my side , I paid dearly for it I play [ nl ] y have found , My Featherbed sirs cost me forty good pound : Now welladay must be all my Song , She hath the Money and I have the wrong . My covetous humour did meet with a cross ; And I was rewarded with forty pound loss , A Proverb to all men , lo here I will be , A fool and his Money's soon parted we see . She made me a promise she would be my Bride . But I have lost her and my Money beside . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Clothworker caught in a Trap : Or , A Fool and his Money soon parted . Being a true Relation of a Cloth worker , dweelling in Thames-street who was wished by and old woe - man to a Maid near Pauls Churchyard , persuading him she had money at use , being a mere Plot of the Maiden and she to cheat him of his Money , knowing him to be none of the wisest , cheated him of forty pound . if you will know then give good Ear , The merriest Jest that e'r you did hear . The Tune is , How now Jockey whither away . Or the Tyrant . C God people I'll tell , you now of a fine jest , Which now unto you shall here be expressed , You shall know how I have been cozened of late , By her whom I called my Love and my Mute : She made me a promise she would be my Bride , But I have lost her and my Money beside . There was and old Woman did wish me unto her , And I , like a woodcok , must needs go and woe her , I bought me new clothes , boots and silver spurs , The cause why I missed her the fault it was hers . She made , etc My sweetheart was wondrous gallant & amp ; spruce , She made me believe she had money at use , My fingers did itch to be at her coin , As hoping the money and she should be mine . She made , etc I followed her closely by day and by night , The hope of her Money was all my delight : But when she perceived my greedy intent , A trick for to cheat me she then did invent , She made , etc She knew I had money , and she had the wit , To cozen me of it she thought it most fit . O she was to [ hard for ] me in the end , God keep me hereafter from such a false friend . She made , etc She sent the old Woman upon and ill day , She came unto me , and thus she did say , Your Sweetheart [ is tO ] aching the Lease of a house . The which does be [ long ] to old Nicholas Rouse . She made , etc Her Money's at use , and out of her hands , That she cannot purch [ a ] se Houses nor Lands . But if forty pound y [ oh ] u will lend her in lain , Lo she will make over the house unto you . I looked for the house and likewise the Bride , etc I was overjoyed when I herd her say so , I gave her the Money without more ado , Forty good pounds she cozened me of , And now at my misery make but a scoff . She made me a Promise she would be my Bride , But I have lost her and my Money beside . I Told all my Neighbours I merry would be , my sweetheart had purchased a house now for me Though I lent her money her cause to prefer , Yet I should have all when I married with her . Thus a promise she made me for to be my Bride , But I have lost her and my Money beside . At length I did find that I was overmatched , I reckoned my Chickens before they were hatched , I found to my grief I was wronged God wot , By a young Harlot and and old old Trot . This cunning old woman , my Sweetheart & amp ; she Did make but a younger Brother of me , For when as I went to visit my Dove , She would not come near me , nor grant me her Love She said her affection was altered quite , And she bid me be packing now out of her sighed , She made , etc Fair Mistress , quoth I , what moves this change ? And what is the reason you should be so strange ; If you be resolved to leave me , sweet Jane , I pray then restore me my Money again . Now all men that here me pity my case , For I have lost all by her being base . She would not be known that my Money she had , But asked the question , if that I were man ? The old Woman had it , quoth I , for your use : Then you may go look it , quod she , goodman Goose . She made , etc If you were so foolish to give her your Coin , Who came in my name , the fault is not mine : Oh learn you more wit hereafter , I pray . Seek out your old woman , if you'd have your pa [ y ] And since thou wantest wit thou shalt want a wife For I'll never have thee while that I have life . When as she had given me these purging Plumb [ s ] I stood like sheepbiter by [ tO ] ing my Thumbs , It made me to fret , to fume , and to stare , Just like the Bull that bewrayed the Fair . That all that beheld me thought I was mad , Beholding my staring and countenance sad . She shoved me out then , and locked the door , Now was ever man so abused before , Unless 'twere the Grafter , I never knew the like , Next morning she sent me a Feather-bed-like . She made , etc She sent me a Featherbed then in disdain , When as she herd how I did complain , To rest my restless body , upon , After the Baggage had me undone . She made , etc She sent me a Bed in height of my pride , But she was too good to lie by my side , I paid dearly for it I play [ nl ] y have found , My Featherbed sirs cost me forty good pound : Now welladay must be all my Song , She hath the Money and I have the wrong . My covetous humour did meet with a cross ; And I was rewarded with forty pound loss , A Proverb to all men , lo here I will be , A fool and his Money's soon parted we see . She made me a promise she would be my Bride . But I have lost her and my Money beside . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 