A dainty new Ditty of a Sailor and his Love , How one the others constancy did prove : Wherein is shown the S eamans constant mind , Though at the first he seemed to her unkind . To a pleasant Sea-far-ing Tune . Maid . M Y only love thoured welcome to the shore , Thy absence long shall grieve my heart no more , Since thou art come thou must with me remain , A and not as yet go to the Seas again . M an . Content thy self my dear , and make no strife , I am resolved to led a sing life ? I have a voyage for to take in hand , Which fits my humour better then the Land. M aid . Cast Anchor here , this harbour shall be thine , In Hymens Bans we will together join ? So shalt I shelter thee from all annoy , The Tides of love shall be thy safe Convoy . Man. Great Neptune gave my mind such sweet Content , That I think time at Sea far better spent : The Land to me brings grief and sad annoys , The Ocean yields a multitude of joys . Maid . Instead of storms , and blustering blasts at Seas , Thou shalt with safety rest , and take thine ease : Nor shalt thou watch by night in dangers deep , Sweet Nightingales shall rock my Love asleep . M an . The lusty Ship in which I mean to go , Dares to encounter with the proudest foe ; And when the bouncing Cannons bark apace , Then must I look mine enemies in the face . Maid . My bed shalt be the Ship wherein thou shalt sail , My breath shall also be the pleasant Gale : My strong affections and enfolded arms , Shall be the Fort to keep thee from all harms . M an . My trusty Cutless and my Musket still shall be , The only refuge of defence for me : My diet shall be Beef and Biscuit bred ; My Cabin shall suffice to hold my head . M aid . TO How shalt not need to fear the Pagans power , Which daily seek good Christians to devour , Quicksands , or any other dangers shall , Procure my death to work my loves downfall . M an . Bellonia's blustering shot gives me delight , When as the enemies appear in sighed ; The rattling drum and the melodious Fife , Brings comfort to a valiant Seamans life . M aid . Instead of WORSER rums and rattling Muskets found , Which sturbs the air and makes the Sea rebound , Harps , Lutes , and Citeyrns shall most sweetly play , And flowers green shall crown thy head with bay , M an . What though the fight be tedious to endure , When all is ended then shall we be sure To be refreshed then we to prayers fallen , And heartily we give God thanks for all . M aid . Thy mean attire and clothing stained with pitch , Shall be exchanged for gold and silver rich ; The choicest that for money can be bought , Shall ( for thy sake ) both far and near be sought . M an . My clothes with pitch although they stained be , They are the garments that contents me : Thy gayest Robes cannot thee same excel , Nor can they please my fancy half so well . M aid . A ll pleasant correspondent to thy mind , Shall be performed if I the same can find : And when thou hast the thing that likes thee best , Then shall I think my self more safe at rest . M an . Mo love is fixed upon the sounding Main , The Labyrinth of the earth shall not obtain , My company for why ? I mean to have , The Sea my wife , and therein make my grave M aid . O let the knot that no man can untie , Be quickly knit between my Love and I , Whereby all men may understand and prove , The firm affection of a maidens love . M an . Let this suffice for all & amp ; and say no more , I'll never wed while I remain on shore , In vain it is for you thus to complain I single am and so I will remain . Maid . W high then dear love ten thousand times farewell , My life is spent go tole my passing Bell , Let all forsaken maids lament my death , Love is the cause for which I lose my breath . M an . Nay stay sweet heart , 'twas only for to try Thy love to me and faithful constancy : And now I find thou dost both say and hold , I will not leave thee for rich Croesus gold . M aid . My love quoth she then use no more delay , I long desire to see that happy day , That our hearts may be no longer twain , But linked in love , and so for aye remain . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A dainty new Ditty of a Sailor and his Love , How one the others constancy did prove : Wherein is shown the S eamans constant mind , Though at the first he seemed to her unkind . To a pleasant Sea-far-ing Tune . Maid . M Y only love thoured welcome to the shore , Thy absence long shall grieve my heart no more , Since thou art come thou must with me remain , A and not as yet go to the Seas again . M an . Content thy self my dear , and make no strife , I am resolved to led a sing life ? I have a voyage for to take in hand , Which fits my humour better then the Land. M aid . Cast Anchor here , this harbour shall be thine , In Hymens Bans we will together join ? So shalt I shelter thee from all annoy , The Tides of love shall be thy safe Convoy . Man. Great Neptune gave my mind such sweet Content , That I think time at Sea far better spent : The Land to me brings grief and sad annoys , The Ocean yields a multitude of joys . Maid . Instead of storms , and blustering blasts at Seas , Thou shalt with safety rest , and take thine ease : Nor shalt thou watch by night in dangers deep , Sweet Nightingales shall rock my Love asleep . M an . The lusty Ship in which I mean to go , Dares to encounter with the proudest foe ; And when the bouncing Cannons bark apace , Then must I look mine enemies in the face . Maid . My bed shalt be the Ship wherein thou shalt sail , My breath shall also be the pleasant Gale : My strong affections and enfolded arms , Shall be the Fort to keep thee from all harms . M an . My trusty Cutless and my Musket still shall be , The only refuge of defence for me : My diet shall be Beef and Biscuit bred ; My Cabin shall suffice to hold my head . M aid . TO How shalt not need to fear the Pagans power , Which daily seek good Christians to devour , Quicksands , or any other dangers shall , Procure my death to work my loves downfall . M an . Bellonia's blustering shot gives me delight , When as the enemies appear in sighed ; The rattling drum and the melodious Fife , Brings comfort to a valiant Seamans life . M aid . Instead of WORSER rums and rattling Muskets found , Which sturbs the air and makes the Sea rebound , Harps , Lutes , and Citeyrns shall most sweetly play , And flowers green shall crown thy head with bay , M an . What though the fight be tedious to endure , When all is ended then shall we be sure To be refreshed then we to prayers fallen , And heartily we give God thanks for all . M aid . Thy mean attire and clothing stained with pitch , Shall be exchanged for gold and silver rich ; The choicest that for money can be bought , Shall ( for thy sake ) both far and near be sought . M an . My clothes with pitch although they stained be , They are the garments that contents me : Thy gayest Robes cannot thee same excel , Nor can they please my fancy half so well . M aid . A ll pleasant correspondent to thy mind , Shall be performed if I the same can find : And when thou hast the thing that likes thee best , Then shall I think my self more safe at rest . M an . Mo love is fixed upon the sounding Main , The Labyrinth of the earth shall not obtain , My company for why ? I mean to have , The Sea my wife , and therein make my grave M aid . O let the knot that no man can untie , Be quickly knit between my Love and I , Whereby all men may understand and prove , The firm affection of a maidens love . M an . Let this suffice for all & amp ; and say no more , I'll never wed while I remain on shore , In vain it is for you thus to complain I single am and so I will remain . Maid . W high then dear love ten thousand times farewell , My life is spent go tole my passing Bell , Let all forsaken maids lament my death , Love is the cause for which I lose my breath . M an . Nay stay sweet heart , 'twas only for to try Thy love to me and faithful constancy : And now I find thou dost both say and hold , I will not leave thee for rich Croesus gold . M aid . My love quoth she then use no more delay , I long desire to see that happy day , That our hearts may be no longer twain , But linked in love , and so for aye remain . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 