A Pleasant New Song betwixt a Sailor and his Love ; To the Tune of , Dulcinas . W Hat does ail my love so sadly , in such heavy dumps to stand Does she grieve , or take unkindly that I am so nigh at hand Or does she vow , She will not know , Nor speak to me when I do come ; if that be so , away i'll go , First kiss and bid me welcome home . Had I ever thee forsaken , putting thee out of my mind , Then thou mightest have justly spoken that I to thee was unkind : or should I take some other mate then might thou have a cause to mourn , but let me die , before that I Do so , then bid me welcome home . Sooner shall the grass leave growing from the Hare the Hound shall run , Husbandmen shall leave their sowing , floods shall run the Land upon , the Fish shall fly , the Sea run dry , The birds shall sing no more but mourn ever I of thee unmindful be , Then kiss and bid me welcome home . Smile on me , be not offended , pardon grant for my amiss , Let thy favour so befriend me , as to seal it with a kiss , to me I swear , thou art so dear , That for thy sake i'll fancy none ; then do not frown , but fit thee down , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome home . If thou hast proved chaste Diana , since from thee I did depart , I have as constant been unto thee , for on thee fixed was my heart : no not for she , Jupiter see , Diana in her tower alone , should me entice not i'll be nice , Then kiss and bid me welcome home . No nor , Venus , Cupids Mother , nor the fairest Wife of J ove , Should L ucretia or some other , seek by gifts to win my love , should Hellen fair , to me compare , And unto me for love make moan , yet none of these , my mind shall please , Then kiss and bid me welcome home . F Rom thy sighed though I were banished , yet I always was to thee , Far more kinder than Ulisses to his chaste Penellope ; for why away , he once did stay , Ten years and left her all alone , but I from thee , have not been three , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome home . Come sweetheart and fit down by me , let thy lap my pillow be , While sweet sleep my mind beguileth , and all my dreams shall be of thee , I pray thee stay , Steal not away , Let Lullaby be all thy Song ; with kisses sweet , Lull me asleep , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome home . The Woman's answer . I Have been sad to see how from me , thou so long from me did stay , Yet now I more rejoice to see thee happily arrived this way , thou from our shore , shalt go no more , To wander thus abroad alone , but thou shalt stay , with me always , and here's my hand , thoured welcome home . I have proved Diana to thee since from me thou wentest away , I have Suitors well nigh twenty , and much ado I had to stay , but I denied , when they replied And sent them all away with scorn , for I had sworn , to live forlorn , Until that I see the come home . Seeing thou art home returned , thou shall not go from home in haste , But lovingly come fit down by me , let my arms embrace thy waste , farewell annoy , welcome my joy , Now Lullaby shall be the song , for now my Heart , seems loath to part , The kiss , etc since sweetheart thou dost befriend me , thus to take me to thy love , Never more will I offend thee , but will ever constant prove : thou hast my heart , not to depart , But ever constant to remain ; and thou art mine , and I am thine , Then let us kiss and welcome home . FINIS . Printed for J. wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passin [ her ] A Pleasant New Song betwixt a Sailor and his Love ; To the Tune of , Dulcinas . W Hat does ail my love so sadly , in such heavy dumps to stand Does she grieve , or take unkindly that I am so nigh at hand Or does she vow , She will not know , Nor speak to me when I do come ; if that be so , away i'll go , First kiss and bid me welcome home . Had I ever thee forsaken , putting thee out of my mind , Then thou mightest have justly spoken that I to thee was unkind : or should I take some other mate then might thou have a cause to mourn , but let me die , before that I Do so , then bid me welcome home . Sooner shall the grass leave growing from the Hare the Hound shall run , Husbandmen shall leave their sowing , floods shall run the Land upon , the Fish shall fly , the Sea run dry , The birds shall sing no more but mourn ever I of thee unmindful be , Then kiss and bid me welcome home . Smile on me , be not offended , pardon grant for my amiss , Let thy favour so befriend me , as to seal it with a kiss , to me I swear , thou art so dear , That for thy sake i'll fancy none ; then do not frown , but fit thee down , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome home . If thou hast proved chaste Diana , since from thee I did depart , I have as constant been unto thee , for on thee fixed was my heart : no not for she , Jupiter see , Diana in her tower alone , should me entice not i'll be nice , Then kiss and bid me welcome home . No nor , Venus , Cupids Mother , nor the fairest Wife of J ove , Should L ucretia or some other , seek by gifts to win my love , should Hellen fair , to me compare , And unto me for love make moan , yet none of these , my mind shall please , Then kiss and bid me welcome home . F Rom thy sighed though I were banished , yet I always was to thee , Far more kinder than Ulisses to his chaste Penellope ; for why away , he once did stay , Ten years and left her all alone , but I from thee , have not been three , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome home . Come sweetheart and fit down by me , let thy lap my pillow be , While sweet sleep my mind beguileth , and all my dreams shall be of thee , I pray thee stay , Steal not away , Let Lullaby be all thy Song ; with kisses sweet , Lull me asleep , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome home . The Woman's answer . I Have been sad to see how from me , thou so long from me did stay , Yet now I more rejoice to see thee happily arrived this way , thou from our shore , shalt go no more , To wander thus abroad alone , but thou shalt stay , with me always , and here's my hand , thoured welcome home . I have proved Diana to thee since from me thou wentest away , I have Suitors well nigh twenty , and much ado I had to stay , but I denied , when they replied And sent them all away with scorn , for I had sworn , to live forlorn , Until that I see the come home . Seeing thou art home returned , thou shall not go from home in haste , But lovingly come fit down by me , let my arms embrace thy waste , farewell annoy , welcome my joy , Now Lullaby shall be the song , for now my Heart , seems loath to part , The kiss , etc since sweetheart thou dost befriend me , thus to take me to thy love , Never more will I offend thee , but will ever constant prove : thou hast my heart , not to depart , But ever constant to remain ; and thou art mine , and I am thine , Then let us kiss and welcome home . FINIS . Printed for J. wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passin [ her ] 