The Bulls Feather ; BEING The Good-fellows Song , usually sung at their Merry-Meeting in Bulls Feather-Hall , who sent this Song to their Brothers , ( of what degree or quality ) in praise of the Bulls Feather . And to all merry Cuckolds who think it no scorn , To wear the Bulls Feather , though made of a Horn . To a very pleasant new Tune : Or : The Bulls Feather : I I chanced not long ago , as I was walking , And Echo did bring me , where two were a talking : 'Twas a Man said to his Wife , die had I rather , Then to be Cornuted , and wear the Bulls Feather . Then presently she replied , sweet , art thou jealous ? Thou canst not play Vulcan , before thou play Venus : Thy Fancies are foolish , such follies to gather , For there's many and honest man , wears the Bulls Feather . Though it be invisible , let no man it scorn , Being it is a New Feather , made of and old Horn : He that disdains it , in mind or in heart either , May be the more subject to wear the Bulls Feather . He that lives discontented , or in despair , And fears false measure , because his Wife's fair : His thoughts are inconstant , much like Winter weather , Though one or two want it , he shall have a Feather . BUlls Feathers are common , as Ergo i'th Schools , And only Contemned by those that are fools : Why should a Bulls Feather cause any unrest , Since Neighbours fair always , is counted the best : Those Women who are fairest , are likest to give it , And Husbands that have them , are apt to believe it : Some men though their Wives they seem for to tender , They would play the kind neighbours & amp ; give the Bulls feather . Why should we repine , that our Wives are so kind , Since we that are Husbands , are of the same mind ? Shall we give them Feathers , and think to go free , Believe it believe it , that hardly will be . For he that disdains my Bulls Feather to day , May light of a Lass that , will play him foul play : There's never a proud Gallant , that treads on Cows leather , But may be Cornuted , and wear the Bulls Feather . The shortest , the tallest , the foulest , the fairest , The fattest , the leanest , the commonest the rarest : When they and their Dicks , are all merry together , Will be using tricks , to advance the Bulls feather . A King and a Cobbler , a Lord and a Loon , A Prince and a Pedlar , a Courtier and a Clown : Put all their Degrees , and conditions together , Are liable always to wear the Bulls feather . Though Beer of that Brewing , I never did drink , Yet be not displeased , if I speak what I think : Scarce ten in and hundred , believe it , believe it , But either they will have it , or else they will give it . Then let me advice all those that do pine , For fear that false Jealousy shorten their Line : That disease will torment them , worse than any Fever , Then let all be contented , and wear the Bulls feather . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. ClarkeThe Bulls Feather ; BEING The Good-fellows Song , usually sung at their Merry-Meeting in Bulls Feather-Hall , who sent this Song to their Brothers , ( of what degree or quality ) in praise of the Bulls Feather . And to all merry Cuckolds who think it no scorn , To wear the Bulls Feather , though made of a Horn . To a very pleasant new Tune : Or : The Bulls Feather : I I chanced not long ago , as I was walking , And Echo did bring me , where two were a talking : 'Twas a Man said to his Wife , die had I rather , Then to be Cornuted , and wear the Bulls Feather . Then presently she replied , sweet , art thou jealous ? Thou canst not play Vulcan , before thou play Venus : Thy Fancies are foolish , such follies to gather , For there's many and honest man , wears the Bulls Feather . Though it be invisible , let no man it scorn , Being it is a New Feather , made of and old Horn : He that disdains it , in mind or in heart either , May be the more subject to wear the Bulls Feather . He that lives discontented , or in despair , And fears false measure , because his Wife's fair : His thoughts are inconstant , much like Winter weather , Though one or two want it , he shall have a Feather . BUlls Feathers are common , as Ergo i'th Schools , And only Contemned by those that are fools : Why should a Bulls Feather cause any unrest , Since Neighbours fair always , is counted the best : Those Women who are fairest , are likest to give it , And Husbands that have them , are apt to believe it : Some men though their Wives they seem for to tender , They would play the kind neighbours & amp ; give the Bulls feather . Why should we repine , that our Wives are so kind , Since we that are Husbands , are of the same mind ? Shall we give them Feathers , and think to go free , Believe it believe it , that hardly will be . For he that disdains my Bulls Feather to day , May light of a Lass that , will play him foul play : There's never a proud Gallant , that treads on Cows leather , But may be Cornuted , and wear the Bulls Feather . The shortest , the tallest , the foulest , the fairest , The fattest , the leanest , the commonest the rarest : When they and their Dicks , are all merry together , Will be using tricks , to advance the Bulls feather . A King and a Cobbler , a Lord and a Loon , A Prince and a Pedlar , a Courtier and a Clown : Put all their Degrees , and conditions together , Are liable always to wear the Bulls feather . Though Beer of that Brewing , I never did drink , Yet be not displeased , if I speak what I think : Scarce ten in and hundred , believe it , believe it , But either they will have it , or else they will give it . Then let me advice all those that do pine , For fear that false Jealousy shorten their Line : That disease will torment them , worse than any Fever , Then let all be contented , and wear the Bulls feather . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke 