The GALLANT's Wish : OR , His earnest desire to be delivered from a WOMAN , OF Various evil DISPOSITIONS and cross-grained QUALITIES . To the Tune of , Oh brave Popery , etc . Licensed according to Order . F Rom a Woman who thirty long Winter's has seen , Yet by patching and painting , and bathing her skin , Appears plump and young as a Girl of fifteen : The Fates deliver us , Heavens deliver us , For they are desperate things . From One who in Meetings is always in motion , Or to Church , hourly gadding , pretending Devotion , Her ways are unknown , like the ways of the Ocean : The Fates deliver us , etc . From One who is always a scolding and railing , Against the faults of her Sex and their ludeness bewailing Twenty pound to a Cherrystone she has her failing : The Fates deliver us , etc . From One who pretends to more Tongues then her own , And in French and Italian a Student is grown , When one Tongue is enough for a Woman it's known : The Fates deliver us , etc . From One who e [ ach ] night to the Playhouse still goes , To show her fine Face , or her much finer Coaths , And receives the Addresses of Sharpers and Beaus : The Fates deliver us , etc . From a raw Country Girl , who god all her breeding In a Village , where cows , swine , & amp ; poultry were feeding , And never was taught either wrieting or reading : The Fates deliver us , Heavens deliver us , For they are desperate things . From a Citizen's Daughter , whose dugling charms , Will eagerly take a young Fop in her arms ; And from and old Widow , with scolding alarms , The Fates deliver us , Heavens deliver us , For they are desperate things . From a sanctified Widow , if such there be any , Who pretends she can love none though courted by many : From One with six Children and never a penny : The Fates deliver us . etc . From a Lass of Intrigue , who before she was wed , Could willingly take a young Lad in her Bed ; From One who has never a good Tooth in Head : The Fates deliver us , etc . From such a One , who a Town-mistress has been , Who surfeits herself in the pleasure of since ; And from One who strives for to draw a Man in : The Fates deliver us , etc . From One who in thought , is as lude as a Stallion , Who tipples Canary , wholesale by the Gallon ; From One that's as jealous as any Italion : The Fates deliver us , etc . From taking a Wife here for better or worse , And keeping another Man's Children at Nurse ; From One that brought nothing , yet will have the Purse : The Fates deliver us , et c . From the horrible torment of leading my life , With One that is nothing but Tumult and Strife ; From One that is more like Old Neck than a Wife : The Fates deliver us , etc From One that is commonly subject to weep , And will not her Husband's good company keep ; From One that is subject to Fart in her sleep : The Fates deliver us , Heavens deliver us . For they are desperate things . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass , on London-Bridge . The GALLANT's Wish : OR , His earnest desire to be delivered from a WOMAN , OF Various evil DISPOSITIONS and cross-grained QUALITIES . To the Tune of , Oh brave Popery , etc . Licensed according to Order . F Rom a Woman who thirty long Winter's has seen , Yet by patching and painting , and bathing her skin , Appears plump and young as a Girl of fifteen : The Fates deliver us , Heavens deliver us , For they are desperate things . From One who in Meetings is always in motion , Or to Church , hourly gadding , pretending Devotion , Her ways are unknown , like the ways of the Ocean : The Fates deliver us , etc . From One who is always a scolding and railing , Against the faults of her Sex and their ludeness bewailing Twenty pound to a Cherrystone she has her failing : The Fates deliver us , etc . From One who pretends to more Tongues then her own , And in French and Italian a Student is grown , When one Tongue is enough for a Woman it's known : The Fates deliver us , etc . From One who e [ ach ] night to the Playhouse still goes , To show her fine Face , or her much finer Coaths , And receives the Addresses of Sharpers and Beaus : The Fates deliver us , etc . From a raw Country Girl , who god all her breeding In a Village , where cows , swine , & amp ; poultry were feeding , And never was taught either wrieting or reading : The Fates deliver us , Heavens deliver us , For they are desperate things . From a Citizen's Daughter , whose dugling charms , Will eagerly take a young Fop in her arms ; And from and old Widow , with scolding alarms , The Fates deliver us , Heavens deliver us , For they are desperate things . From a sanctified Widow , if such there be any , Who pretends she can love none though courted by many : From One with six Children and never a penny : The Fates deliver us . etc . From a Lass of Intrigue , who before she was wed , Could willingly take a young Lad in her Bed ; From One who has never a good Tooth in Head : The Fates deliver us , etc . From such a One , who a Town-mistress has been , Who surfeits herself in the pleasure of since ; And from One who strives for to draw a Man in : The Fates deliver us , etc . From One who in thought , is as lude as a Stallion , Who tipples Canary , wholesale by the Gallon ; From One that's as jealous as any Italion : The Fates deliver us , etc . From taking a Wife here for better or worse , And keeping another Man's Children at Nurse ; From One that brought nothing , yet will have the Purse : The Fates deliver us , et c . From the horrible torment of leading my life , With One that is nothing but Tumult and Strife ; From One that is more like Old Neck than a Wife : The Fates deliver us , etc From One that is commonly subject to weep , And will not her Husband's good company keep ; From One that is subject to Fart in her sleep : The Fates deliver us , Heavens deliver us . For they are desperate things . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass , on London-Bridge . 