A DIALOGUE BETWEEN A Baker and his Wife , living near Lambath Mash , in Lambeth Parish , in the County of Surry : Being a new Song by the old Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . Licensed and Entered according to Order . W Here have you been , you drunken Dog , where have you been to day ? For every fault you do commit , you shall severely pay : I'll tear your throat , i ll hang your bones , that you shall quickly see , Before that ever you shall play , at heigh Boys up go we . My dearest dear , the Breeches take , for all I have is thine ; Go out among thy Gossips love , drink Beer , or Ale , or Wine , Hight Pots or any thing you please , so I may quiet be ; And come and let us play in Bed , at heigh Boys up go we . A curse upon your plaguy Face , I wish that thou were dead ; Nay , if thou live assuredly , I will cornute thy Head : You drunken Dog when you are out , if you'll not better be ; With another I will have about at hey Boys up go we . Upon my bent knees my Dear , thy Pardon I do beg ; I never will forsake thy Bed , While I can lift a Leg ; My Love , it was , the Taylor's fault , it's he hath ruined me ; Come my dear Love let's have a game , [ a ] tO heigh Boys up go we . You Dog I'll stamp upon your Guts , I'll end your wretched Life ; Was ever Churl so bade as thee , unto so good a Wife : Now it is time to praise myself none else will do it I see ; You Rogue you shall not have one bit , of hey Boys up go we . Dear Love , be but reconciled , this once my Love to me ; And I will never more offend , to such a high degree ; The Taylor's company I'll leave , for he has ruined me : Come Love let's have a little touch , at heigh Boys up go we . Thou toothless Fool , thou Drunken Sot , thou foolish silly Ass ; I'll drive thee in the Fields to feed , with Bulls that live on Grass ; Go fumble like a fumbling Fool , go get thee gone from me , For thou shalt not so much as feel , my hey Boys up go we . O wretched Man ! What shall I do ? where shall I hide my Head ? I am a weary of my Life , I wish that I was Dead ; See how the Tears do trickle down , behold dear Wife and see , How I am in a piteous Case , for heigh Boys up go we . Well , if you'll promise to be good , and will the Dishes wash , And mind to feed the Poultery this fault I by will pass : My little , silly , pretty , Cock , be thou but ruled by me , And I'll give thee thy Belly full , of hey Boys up go we . By thy Smock-tail I'll swear my Love , I n'er will do amiss , And to confirm the same , my Dear , the Book I'll freely kiss ; All Company I will forsake , and go to Bed with thee , Where I will please my love , with heigh Boys up go we . Printed for J.S. in the Strand . A DIALOGUE BETWEEN A Baker and his Wife , living near Lambath Mash , in Lambeth Parish , in the County of Surry : Being a new Song by the old Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . Licensed and Entered according to Order . W Here have you been , you drunken Dog , where have you been to day ? For every fault you do commit , you shall severely pay : I'll tear your throat , i ll hang your bones , that you shall quickly see , Before that ever you shall play , at heigh Boys up go we . My dearest dear , the Breeches take , for all I have is thine ; Go out among thy Gossips love , drink Beer , or Ale , or Wine , Hight Pots or any thing you please , so I may quiet be ; And come and let us play in Bed , at heigh Boys up go we . A curse upon your plaguy Face , I wish that thou were dead ; Nay , if thou live assuredly , I will cornute thy Head : You drunken Dog when you are out , if you'll not better be ; With another I will have about at hey Boys up go we . Upon my bent knees my Dear , thy Pardon I do beg ; I never will forsake thy Bed , While I can lift a Leg ; My Love , it was , the Taylor's fault , it's he hath ruined me ; Come my dear Love let's have a game , [ a ] tO heigh Boys up go we . You Dog I'll stamp upon your Guts , I'll end your wretched Life ; Was ever Churl so bade as thee , unto so good a Wife : Now it is time to praise myself none else will do it I see ; You Rogue you shall not have one bit , of hey Boys up go we . Dear Love , be but reconciled , this once my Love to me ; And I will never more offend , to such a high degree ; The Taylor's company I'll leave , for he has ruined me : Come Love let's have a little touch , at heigh Boys up go we . Thou toothless Fool , thou Drunken Sot , thou foolish silly Ass ; I'll drive thee in the Fields to feed , with Bulls that live on Grass ; Go fumble like a fumbling Fool , go get thee gone from me , For thou shalt not so much as feel , my hey Boys up go we . O wretched Man ! What shall I do ? where shall I hide my Head ? I am a weary of my Life , I wish that I was Dead ; See how the Tears do trickle down , behold dear Wife and see , How I am in a piteous Case , for heigh Boys up go we . Well , if you'll promise to be good , and will the Dishes wash , And mind to feed the Poultery this fault I by will pass : My little , silly , pretty , Cock , be thou but ruled by me , And I'll give thee thy Belly full , of hey Boys up go we . By thy Smock-tail I'll swear my Love , I n'er will do amiss , And to confirm the same , my Dear , the Book I'll freely kiss ; All Company I will forsake , and go to Bed with thee , Where I will please my love , with heigh Boys up go we . Printed for J.S. in the Strand . 