THE Well-Approved DOCTOR : OR , And Infallible Cure for CUCKOLDS . It did appear from far and near , they traveled not in vain , For they were sure to have their Cure , when they to London came . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R. P. TO Here is a fine Doctor now new come to Town , Whose practice in physic had gained him renown , In curing of Cuckolds he had the best skill , By giving one Dose of his approved Pill . His skill is well known , and his practice is great , Then come to the Doctor before it's too late ; His Medicines are safe , and the Doctor is sure , He takes none in hand but he perfects a Cure . The Doctor himself he does freely unfold , That he can cure Cuckolds though never so old ; He helps this Distemper in all sorts of men , At forty , and fifty , yea threescore and ten . There was and old Man lived near to the Strand , Decreped and Feeble , scarce able to stand ; Who had been a Cuckold full forty long years , But hearing of this , how he pricked up his ears . Away to the Doctor he went with all speed , Where he struck a Bargain , they soon were agreed : He cured his Forehead that nothing is seen , And now he's as brisk as a Youth of Fifteen . Now this being known , how his fame it did ring , And unto the Doctor much trading did bring ; They come to the Doctor out of e'ry Shire , From all parts and places , yea both far and near . Both Dutchmen and Scotchmen to London did ride , With Shonny a Morgan and thousands beside ; Thus all sorts and sizes both Rich men and poor , They came in whole Cartloads to this Doctors door . Some whining , some weeping , some careful and sad , And some was contented , and others Horn-mad ; Some crooked some straightHorns , & amp ; some overgrown The like in all Ages I think was never known . Some rich and brave flourishing Cuckolds was there That come in whole Droves Sir , as is to Horn-Fair : For now there is hope's to be cured of their grief , The Doctor declares in the fallen of the Leaf . Let none be so foolish as now to neglect This Doctors great kindness and civil respect : Though Rich men may pay , yet the poor shall go free , So kind and so careful a Doctor is he . It's known he so worthy a Conscience does make , Poor Cuckolds he'l Cure them for Charity sake ; Nay , farther than this , still his love does enlarge , Providing for them at his own cost and charge . But some are so wicked that they will exclaim Against their poor wives , making they bear the blame And will not look out in the least for a cure , But all the sad pains and their torture endure . But it's without reason , for he that is born Under such a Planet , is Heir to the Horn : Then come to the Doctor both Rich men and poor , He'l carefully cure you , what would you have more ? The term of his time here the Doctor does write ; From six in the morning till seven at night ; Where in his own Chamber he still will remain , At the Sign of the Woodcock in Vinegar Lane . The Doctor does here likewise present you with the Re - ceipt of his Infallible Medicine , that those that hath no oc - casion for it themselves may do good to their Neighbours and Acquaintances , and take it here as follows . TO Ake 5 pound of Brains of your December Flies And forty true tears from a Crocodiles Eyes , The wit of a Weasle , the Wool of a Frog , With and ounce of conserves of a Michaelmas Fogg , And make him a Poltis when he goes to Bed , To bind to his Temples behind of his Head ; As hight as the Patient he can well endure , And this is for Cuckolds and absolute Cure . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur - Street , without Newgate . THE Well-Approved DOCTOR : OR , And Infallible Cure for CUCKOLDS . It did appear from far and near , they traveled not in vain , For they were sure to have their Cure , when they to London came . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R. P. TO Here is a fine Doctor now new come to Town , Whose practice in physic had gained him renown , In curing of Cuckolds he had the best skill , By giving one Dose of his approved Pill . His skill is well known , and his practice is great , Then come to the Doctor before it's too late ; His Medicines are safe , and the Doctor is sure , He takes none in hand but he perfects a Cure . The Doctor himself he does freely unfold , That he can cure Cuckolds though never so old ; He helps this Distemper in all sorts of men , At forty , and fifty , yea threescore and ten . There was and old Man lived near to the Strand , Decreped and Feeble , scarce able to stand ; Who had been a Cuckold full forty long years , But hearing of this , how he pricked up his ears . Away to the Doctor he went with all speed , Where he struck a Bargain , they soon were agreed : He cured his Forehead that nothing is seen , And now he's as brisk as a Youth of Fifteen . Now this being known , how his fame it did ring , And unto the Doctor much trading did bring ; They come to the Doctor out of e'ry Shire , From all parts and places , yea both far and near . Both Dutchmen and Scotchmen to London did ride , With Shonny a Morgan and thousands beside ; Thus all sorts and sizes both Rich men and poor , They came in whole Cartloads to this Doctors door . Some whining , some weeping , some careful and sad , And some was contented , and others Horn-mad ; Some crooked some straightHorns , & amp ; some overgrown The like in all Ages I think was never known . Some rich and brave flourishing Cuckolds was there That come in whole Droves Sir , as is to Horn-Fair : For now there is hope's to be cured of their grief , The Doctor declares in the fallen of the Leaf . Let none be so foolish as now to neglect This Doctors great kindness and civil respect : Though Rich men may pay , yet the poor shall go free , So kind and so careful a Doctor is he . It's known he so worthy a Conscience does make , Poor Cuckolds he'l Cure them for Charity sake ; Nay , farther than this , still his love does enlarge , Providing for them at his own cost and charge . But some are so wicked that they will exclaim Against their poor wives , making they bear the blame And will not look out in the least for a cure , But all the sad pains and their torture endure . But it's without reason , for he that is born Under such a Planet , is Heir to the Horn : Then come to the Doctor both Rich men and poor , He'l carefully cure you , what would you have more ? The term of his time here the Doctor does write ; From six in the morning till seven at night ; Where in his own Chamber he still will remain , At the Sign of the Woodcock in Vinegar Lane . The Doctor does here likewise present you with the Re - ceipt of his Infallible Medicine , that those that hath no oc - casion for it themselves may do good to their Neighbours and Acquaintances , and take it here as follows . TO Ake 5 pound of Brains of your December Flies And forty true tears from a Crocodiles Eyes , The wit of a Weasle , the Wool of a Frog , With and ounce of conserves of a Michaelmas Fogg , And make him a Poltis when he goes to Bed , To bind to his Temples behind of his Head ; As hight as the Patient he can well endure , And this is for Cuckolds and absolute Cure . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur - Street , without Newgate . 