The two Lymas Lovers , THOMAS and BETTY . Set forth in a Dialogue between them at his departure . Although they part , yet still his Heart was true , he loved her dear , And likewise she in Loyalty , did perfectly appear . Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed , R. P. F Airest of Creatures I leave thee , now for a Twelvemonth or more , Yet I will never deceive thee , but will thy blessings restore : When I return from the Ocean , Gold I will bring to my dear , For my sweet Jewels promotion , there is no Perils i'll fear . Surely thy words they are killing , which to my sorrow I hear , Never was Maid more unwilling than I to part with my dear , Why wilt thou hazard the dangers of the Tempestuous Seas , With the abuses of Strangers , when thou mightest live at thy ease . Why should those dangers affright us , Seamen must near be dismayed , There is nothing can delight us , more than a prosperous Trade : Sailing from Nation to Nation , traveling Seamen behold , Wondered works of Creation , bring home the Indian Gold . Why dost thou tell me of treasure , threaten me that thou wilt rome , Can I possess greater pleasure , then to embrace thee at home , Oh that I might but enjoy thee , it's what thy true Lover craves , Here there is none can annoy thee , no not the turbulent Waves . What though a while we are parted , Heaven still will be my guide , Why should I then be fainthearted , since there is many beside ? Captain , with valiant stout Seamen , Bowson with all the whole crew , Married Men as well as Freemen , fears not what Tempests can do . Dearest thy language does grieve me , being surrounded with fears , Hast thou the power to leave me , drowned in sorrowful Tears : When I consider my Jewel , whom I so dearly adore , Meet with those Billows so cruel , where I shall never see him more . Love , when most terrible thunder , causes a Tempest to rise , Tearing your rigging asunder , tossed between Billows and Skies : Weeping alas ! must relieve me , while thou art sailing the Sea , Nothing in Nature does grieve me more than the parting with thee . Prithee be patient my sweating , let nothing trouble thy mind , There will be joy in next meeting , thou shalt assuredly find , When I return you shall flourish , Jewels to thee I will give , And in my arms I will nourish my love as long as I live . No one but thee I will marry , whom I so dearly adore , Though I no longer can tarry with thee my jewel on shore : Let it be still thy endeavour , truly contented to be , Though for a while we shall sever , I will be Loyal to thee . Seeing we must be divided , and that thou wilt have thy will , May you by Blessings be guided , thus I shall pray for thee still : That nothing ever [ ? ] annoy thee , while thou comest safe to the shore , Love [ I ] sh [ ? ] long to enjoy thee , and to b [ ? ] worser thee once more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The two Lymas Lovers , THOMAS and BETTY . Set forth in a Dialogue between them at his departure . Although they part , yet still his Heart was true , he loved her dear , And likewise she in Loyalty , did perfectly appear . Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed , R. P. F Airest of Creatures I leave thee , now for a Twelvemonth or more , Yet I will never deceive thee , but will thy blessings restore : When I return from the Ocean , Gold I will bring to my dear , For my sweet Jewels promotion , there is no Perils i'll fear . Surely thy words they are killing , which to my sorrow I hear , Never was Maid more unwilling than I to part with my dear , Why wilt thou hazard the dangers of the Tempestuous Seas , With the abuses of Strangers , when thou mightest live at thy ease . Why should those dangers affright us , Seamen must near be dismayed , There is nothing can delight us , more than a prosperous Trade : Sailing from Nation to Nation , traveling Seamen behold , Wondered works of Creation , bring home the Indian Gold . Why dost thou tell me of treasure , threaten me that thou wilt rome , Can I possess greater pleasure , then to embrace thee at home , Oh that I might but enjoy thee , it's what thy true Lover craves , Here there is none can annoy thee , no not the turbulent Waves . What though a while we are parted , Heaven still will be my guide , Why should I then be fainthearted , since there is many beside ? Captain , with valiant stout Seamen , Bowson with all the whole crew , Married Men as well as Freemen , fears not what Tempests can do . Dearest thy language does grieve me , being surrounded with fears , Hast thou the power to leave me , drowned in sorrowful Tears : When I consider my Jewel , whom I so dearly adore , Meet with those Billows so cruel , where I shall never see him more . Love , when most terrible thunder , causes a Tempest to rise , Tearing your rigging asunder , tossed between Billows and Skies : Weeping alas ! must relieve me , while thou art sailing the Sea , Nothing in Nature does grieve me more than the parting with thee . Prithee be patient my sweating , let nothing trouble thy mind , There will be joy in next meeting , thou shalt assuredly find , When I return you shall flourish , Jewels to thee I will give , And in my arms I will nourish my love as long as I live . No one but thee I will marry , whom I so dearly adore , Though I no longer can tarry with thee my jewel on shore : Let it be still thy endeavour , truly contented to be , Though for a while we shall sever , I will be Loyal to thee . Seeing we must be divided , and that thou wilt have thy will , May you by Blessings be guided , thus I shall pray for thee still : That nothing ever [ ? ] annoy thee , while thou comest safe to the shore , Love [ I ] sh [ ? ] long to enjoy thee , and to b [ ? ] worser thee once more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 