The Mariners Delight The constant Seaman leaves his Love , to sail upon the Main , Engaging for to Wed his Dear when he returns again . To the Tune of Philander . This may be Printed , R.P. Man. F Arewel my Dearest Dear , for thee and I must part , And I do greatly fear that it will break my heart : But yet if I return alive Old England for to see , Thou needest not fear , my ownly Dear but I'll be true to thee . Maid . Alas ( my Love ) quoth she wilt thou be so unkind To go away to Sea and leave me here behind ? Both night and day I shall complain for my Beloved Dear , and e'ry Storm will do me harm , possessing me with fear . Man. When stormy winds do blow , and Billows they do roar , Our true Loves then we know are frightened on the Shore , And fear we should be cast away by Fortune too unkind , At length do we return from Sea to ease their troubled mind . Maid Well , since it must be so , I must contented be , For certainly I know thou wilt be true to me . No foreign land will change thy mind nor altar thee my Love , And I will be , assuredly , true as the Turtle Dove . Man. TO Hen Neptune I implore assistance from thy hand Now I must leave the shore keep me from Rocks and sand That I may safely home return to my beloved Dear Who for my absence long will mourn and part with many a tear . Maid . Can Maidens tears prevail i'll part from them good store W hen thou art under Sail though I am on the shore . All Comforts I will sure refuse till thee I see again ; For Night and Day , I'll for thee pray when thou art on the Main . Man. Nothing shall me affright when from thee I am gone It'll be my hearts delight my Love to think upon . I'll write thy Name upon the Mast and paint thee in the Ship That when I see the shape of thee my very heart may leap . Maid I'll do the like on shore , where ever I chance to be The Element shall roar of my true Constancy . I'll sing thy praise where ever I go thy Virtues I'll applaud And spread thy name on wings of fame at home , and eke abroad . Man. My Voyage is but short and soon I shall return ; I shall be joyful fored lest thou my dear , shouldst mourn : Then Hymens Rites we will perform to joy each others heart ; Till cruel death shall stop our Breath there's nothing shall us part . maid . That hour I long to see O twould my joys increase W ere I but matched to thee my Soul would be at peace . Till then I never shall be at rest by night nor yet by Day , A and so adieu , my Love most true , long from me do not stay . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Mariners Delight The constant Seaman leaves his Love , to sail upon the Main , Engaging for to Wed his Dear when he returns again . To the Tune of Philander . This may be Printed , R.P. Man. F Arewel my Dearest Dear , for thee and I must part , And I do greatly fear that it will break my heart : But yet if I return alive Old England for to see , Thou needest not fear , my ownly Dear but I'll be true to thee . Maid . Alas ( my Love ) quoth she wilt thou be so unkind To go away to Sea and leave me here behind ? Both night and day I shall complain for my Beloved Dear , and e'ry Storm will do me harm , possessing me with fear . Man. When stormy winds do blow , and Billows they do roar , Our true Loves then we know are frightened on the Shore , And fear we should be cast away by Fortune too unkind , At length do we return from Sea to ease their troubled mind . Maid Well , since it must be so , I must contented be , For certainly I know thou wilt be true to me . No foreign land will change thy mind nor altar thee my Love , And I will be , assuredly , true as the Turtle Dove . Man. TO Hen Neptune I implore assistance from thy hand Now I must leave the shore keep me from Rocks and sand That I may safely home return to my beloved Dear Who for my absence long will mourn and part with many a tear . Maid . Can Maidens tears prevail i'll part from them good store W hen thou art under Sail though I am on the shore . All Comforts I will sure refuse till thee I see again ; For Night and Day , I'll for thee pray when thou art on the Main . Man. Nothing shall me affright when from thee I am gone It'll be my hearts delight my Love to think upon . I'll write thy Name upon the Mast and paint thee in the Ship That when I see the shape of thee my very heart may leap . Maid I'll do the like on shore , where ever I chance to be The Element shall roar of my true Constancy . I'll sing thy praise where ever I go thy Virtues I'll applaud And spread thy name on wings of fame at home , and eke abroad . Man. My Voyage is but short and soon I shall return ; I shall be joyful fored lest thou my dear , shouldst mourn : Then Hymens Rites we will perform to joy each others heart ; Till cruel death shall stop our Breath there's nothing shall us part . maid . That hour I long to see O twould my joys increase W ere I but matched to thee my Soul would be at peace . Till then I never shall be at rest by night nor yet by Day , A and so adieu , my Love most true , long from me do not stay . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 