The Seamans leave taken of his sweetest Margery . AND Margery her singing loath to depart , Being very unwilling to leave her sweet heart . To the Tune of , I'll go throw the world with thee . M an . S Weet M argery I am pressed to Sea , with Gold and Silver in my hand , I come to take my leave of thee , and bid adieu to fair England . M aid . But wilt thou be gone my honey sweet and must I loose thy company ? Methinks for thee it is not meet , to leave thy dearest M argery . M an . Sweet M argery I must needs be gone , alas there is no remedy ; But be in company or alone , I'll not forget my Margery . M aid . I would thou couldst thy voyage excuse , for I am loath to part from thee , When thy sweet presence I do lose , I shall be a sorrowful Margery . Man. I prithee be not grieved so , but take my absence patiently , For wheresoever I come or go . my heart remains with M argery . M aid . A bird in hand's worth two in the Bush , and when thou art once gone from me , I doubt thou wilt not care a rush , what will become of M argery . M an . I prithee do not conjecture thus , nor question my true constancy : The Gordion Knot which tyeth us , i'll never break from my M argery . M aid . Well if I thought thou wouldst prove true , and bear a faithful heart to me , To sorrow I should bid adieu , as thou takest leave of thy Margery . M an . Do not misdoubt my love at all , nor vex thy head with jealousy ; What chance soever me befall , i'll never forsake my Margery . Maid . Excuse me if I judged wrong , it is my tender love to thee : lest when thou hast been absent long , thou might forget thy M argery . Man. That can I never for my life , for I am thine until I die ; And if I ever marry a wife , it shall be my sweet M argery . M aid . I prithee do that ever we part , that joyful day I might but see : 'Twould put all sorrows from my heart , and none so blithe as M argery . M an . B E not so hasty , rather stay , for at this time it cannot be , I must aboard this present day , and leave my sweetest Margery . M aid . Then take from me a parting Kiss , this point about thine arm i'll tie , And when thou lookest upon thy wrist , than think upon thy M argery . Man. This point I will esteem more dear , then all the jewels I shall see , Pluck up thy heart and be of good cheer ; till I return to my Margery . M aid . When you do walk the Spanish street , and many Gallants pass you by , Your Chamber docks and Music sweet , then you'll forget your M argery . Man. I prithee harp not on that string , these words does touch my heart full nigh For I esteem no earthly thing , so much as I do sweet M argery . Maid . Sweet love forget that word unkind , 'twas spoke thy patience but to try : For I'm persuaded in my mind , thou lovest no Lass but Margery . Man. I have seven Ships upon the Sea , and they are all laden to the brim : I am so inflamed with love to thee , I care not whither they sink or swim . Maid . Henceforth , I'll never mistrust thee more , nor question thy true Loyalty : Where ever thou art , on Seal , shore , thou'st think upon thy Margery . M an . If any Knight or Gentleman do pass the Seas to my country , I'll write a Letter with my own hand , and send it to my Margery . M aid , Oh how shall I that Letter kiss , so soon as ever I it spy , It would present a World of bliss , unto thy loving M argery . M an . M argery i'll a Gallant prove , and for thy sake my valour try , Though all my Kin seek to remove my thoughts from my sweet M argery . M aid . If I had wist before I had kissed , that Love had been so dear to win ; My heart I would have closed in Gold and pined it with a Silver Pin. M an . The time sweet Margery calls away , I now must leave thy company , For time and tide for none will stay , once more farewell sweet M argery . M aid . Once more i'll kiss thy sugared Lips , and take thy absence patiently , Heaven prosper thee and thy seven ships and send thee safe to M argery . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. PassingerThe Seamans leave taken of his sweetest Margery . AND Margery her singing loath to depart , Being very unwilling to leave her sweet heart . To the Tune of , I'll go throw the world with thee . M an . S Weet M argery I am pressed to Sea , with Gold and Silver in my hand , I come to take my leave of thee , and bid adieu to fair England . M aid . But wilt thou be gone my honey sweet and must I loose thy company ? Methinks for thee it is not meet , to leave thy dearest M argery . M an . Sweet M argery I must needs be gone , alas there is no remedy ; But be in company or alone , I'll not forget my Margery . M aid . I would thou couldst thy voyage excuse , for I am loath to part from thee , When thy sweet presence I do lose , I shall be a sorrowful Margery . Man. I prithee be not grieved so , but take my absence patiently , For wheresoever I come or go . my heart remains with M argery . M aid . A bird in hand's worth two in the Bush , and when thou art once gone from me , I doubt thou wilt not care a rush , what will become of M argery . M an . I prithee do not conjecture thus , nor question my true constancy : The Gordion Knot which tyeth us , i'll never break from my M argery . M aid . Well if I thought thou wouldst prove true , and bear a faithful heart to me , To sorrow I should bid adieu , as thou takest leave of thy Margery . M an . Do not misdoubt my love at all , nor vex thy head with jealousy ; What chance soever me befall , i'll never forsake my Margery . Maid . Excuse me if I judged wrong , it is my tender love to thee : lest when thou hast been absent long , thou might forget thy M argery . Man. That can I never for my life , for I am thine until I die ; And if I ever marry a wife , it shall be my sweet M argery . M aid . I prithee do that ever we part , that joyful day I might but see : 'Twould put all sorrows from my heart , and none so blithe as M argery . M an . B E not so hasty , rather stay , for at this time it cannot be , I must aboard this present day , and leave my sweetest Margery . M aid . Then take from me a parting Kiss , this point about thine arm i'll tie , And when thou lookest upon thy wrist , than think upon thy M argery . Man. This point I will esteem more dear , then all the jewels I shall see , Pluck up thy heart and be of good cheer ; till I return to my Margery . M aid . When you do walk the Spanish street , and many Gallants pass you by , Your Chamber docks and Music sweet , then you'll forget your M argery . Man. I prithee harp not on that string , these words does touch my heart full nigh For I esteem no earthly thing , so much as I do sweet M argery . Maid . Sweet love forget that word unkind , 'twas spoke thy patience but to try : For I'm persuaded in my mind , thou lovest no Lass but Margery . Man. I have seven Ships upon the Sea , and they are all laden to the brim : I am so inflamed with love to thee , I care not whither they sink or swim . Maid . Henceforth , I'll never mistrust thee more , nor question thy true Loyalty : Where ever thou art , on Seal , shore , thou'st think upon thy Margery . M an . If any Knight or Gentleman do pass the Seas to my country , I'll write a Letter with my own hand , and send it to my Margery . M aid , Oh how shall I that Letter kiss , so soon as ever I it spy , It would present a World of bliss , unto thy loving M argery . M an . M argery i'll a Gallant prove , and for thy sake my valour try , Though all my Kin seek to remove my thoughts from my sweet M argery . M aid . If I had wist before I had kissed , that Love had been so dear to win ; My heart I would have closed in Gold and pined it with a Silver Pin. M an . The time sweet Margery calls away , I now must leave thy company , For time and tide for none will stay , once more farewell sweet M argery . M aid . Once more i'll kiss thy sugared Lips , and take thy absence patiently , Heaven prosper thee and thy seven ships and send thee safe to M argery . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger 