The Faithful Mariner . The Constant Seaman leaves the Land , To Sail upon the Main , Engaging for to wed his Dear When he Returns again . Tune of , Philander . F Arewel my dearest Dear , for thee and I must part , And I do greatly fear that it will break my heart : Yet hope I shall return again , Old England for to see : Nothing but Death , or want of breath shall part my Love and me . Alas ! my Love , quoth she , wilt thou be so unkind , To go away from me , and leave me here behind . Both night and day I shall complain ( my Love ) for want of thee , And still relate how cruel Fate did part my love and me . When stormy winds do blow , and billows they do roar , Our trueloves then we know are troubled on the shore , For fear we should be cast away , or foundered in the Sea , While we do sing , no earthly thing shall part my love and me . O Fortune too unkind ! why dost thou use me so , To cause my love so kind away from me to go : Let not strange Countries change thy mind , but ever constant be , Nothing shall part but death's cold dart my faithful love and me . Then Neptune , I implore assistance from thy hand , Now I must leave the shore , keep me from Rocks and Sands : That I may happily escape the dangers of the Sea , And let not Death stop my poor breath , and part my etc Can Maidens tears prevail , i'll part with them good store , When thou art under sail i'll mourn upon the shore : All kind of comforts i'll refuse , till thee again I see , And nothing shall to us befall to part my etc Nothing shall me affright when I from thee am gone , It'll be my hearts delight , my love to think upon : I'll write thy name upon the Mast , and painted thou shalt be In my poor heart , that none may part my faithful love and me . I'll do the like on shore , for wheresoever I be , The Element shall roar , of my fidelity : I'll sing thy praise where ever I go , thou shalt applauded be , And nought but Death shall stop my breath to part my love and me . My Voyage is but short , and I shall soon return , I shall be joyful fored , lest thou my Dear shouldst mourn : Then Hymens Rites we will perform united will we be : And he at last , shall tie us fast , and join my love and me . That hour I long to see , Oh 'twould my joys increase , Were I but matched to thee , my soul would be at peace : Till then I never shall be at rest , or shall contented be , Make no delay , Hymen , I say , to join my love and me . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . The Faithful Mariner . The Constant Seaman leaves the Land , To Sail upon the Main , Engaging for to wed his Dear When he Returns again . Tune of , Philander . F Arewel my dearest Dear , for thee and I must part , And I do greatly fear that it will break my heart : Yet hope I shall return again , Old England for to see : Nothing but Death , or want of breath shall part my Love and me . Alas ! my Love , quoth she , wilt thou be so unkind , To go away from me , and leave me here behind . Both night and day I shall complain ( my Love ) for want of thee , And still relate how cruel Fate did part my love and me . When stormy winds do blow , and billows they do roar , Our trueloves then we know are troubled on the shore , For fear we should be cast away , or foundered in the Sea , While we do sing , no earthly thing shall part my love and me . O Fortune too unkind ! why dost thou use me so , To cause my love so kind away from me to go : Let not strange Countries change thy mind , but ever constant be , Nothing shall part but death's cold dart my faithful love and me . Then Neptune , I implore assistance from thy hand , Now I must leave the shore , keep me from Rocks and Sands : That I may happily escape the dangers of the Sea , And let not Death stop my poor breath , and part my etc Can Maidens tears prevail , i'll part with them good store , When thou art under sail i'll mourn upon the shore : All kind of comforts i'll refuse , till thee again I see , And nothing shall to us befall to part my etc Nothing shall me affright when I from thee am gone , It'll be my hearts delight , my love to think upon : I'll write thy name upon the Mast , and painted thou shalt be In my poor heart , that none may part my faithful love and me . I'll do the like on shore , for wheresoever I be , The Element shall roar , of my fidelity : I'll sing thy praise where ever I go , thou shalt applauded be , And nought but Death shall stop my breath to part my love and me . My Voyage is but short , and I shall soon return , I shall be joyful fored , lest thou my Dear shouldst mourn : Then Hymens Rites we will perform united will we be : And he at last , shall tie us fast , and join my love and me . That hour I long to see , Oh 'twould my joys increase , Were I but matched to thee , my soul would be at peace : Till then I never shall be at rest , or shall contented be , Make no delay , Hymen , I say , to join my love and me . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 