THE Wanton Maid of Lambeth AND The Courageous Waterman . B eing a pleasant new Song , showing how much young maids desire to be married and the dan - her of keeping their maidenheads too long . A s also the way how a Waterman's apprentice Courted his Master's Daughter , and is now like to be his Son-in Law . whence every young - M and and maid may learn how to behave themselves towards their sweethearts . To the Tune of , Tom the Taylor . I Am a Maid both Brisk and Bold , both Handsome , Fair , and dainty ; And now I find that I grow Old , I'm upward unto Twenty : Yet never a Man , do what I can , or Sweetheart does come to me ; But Night and Day , I sighs and pray , for one to come and Woo me : My Mother she hath promised , as soon as I do Marry , Two Pillows and a Feather Bed , to sleep till I be weary : A pair of Grates : two Pewter-Plates , two Dishes , and a Ladle ; A Dripping-Pan , a Wooden Can , a Jointstool , and a Cradle . I've twenty Shillings , and a Ring , ten Acres of good ground Sir ; I likewise have a better thing , that's well worth thirty pound Sir : I'm all complete , and Sugar-sweet , and soft to admiration : To sport and play , till it be Day , in pleasant Recreytion . M Y Gown it is of darkish blue , my Petticoat's of Scarlet ; I wear the Colour that is true , and hate the name of Harlet ; My Maidenhead is turned to Led , and like a Millstone heavy , Yet none at Night , with Candlelight , does strive to come and ease me . Th'Apprentice of a Waterman , that was both brisk and airy , He did intend me to trappan , and swore he would me marry ; But he before had made a Whore of his own Master's Daughter , And Neighbours all , both great & amp ; small could not refrain from laughter Of Victory he was assured , ever he the fight did venture , He rowed his Wherry straight aboard and under Deck did enter : At twelve a Clock , he did unlock , the Cabin of her pleasure , And with a job he did her rob , of all her hidden Treasure . The young man he was always wild , yet he was well beloved ; The maid she was but seeming mild , as by her belly's proved It mounts up high , and she does cry , that ever she was enticed At game to play that thing away , which she so dearly prised . His Master does commend his wit , his Dame she is enraged , And calls her daughter simple slut . so soon to be engaged : But both intend the ' miss to mend , by covering her miscarriage , And join their hands in wedlock bans by solemnizing marriage . The maid hath whereupon to boast , in finding such a Lover , Who though her maidenhead be lost , her Credit does recover : Oh that I could , I gladly would , even follow this new custom , There's nothing such as take a touch and try before you trust ' um . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . THE Wanton Maid of Lambeth AND The Courageous Waterman . B eing a pleasant new Song , showing how much young maids desire to be married and the dan - her of keeping their maidenheads too long . A s also the way how a Waterman's apprentice Courted his Master's Daughter , and is now like to be his Son-in Law . whence every young - M and and maid may learn how to behave themselves towards their sweethearts . To the Tune of , Tom the Taylor . I Am a Maid both Brisk and Bold , both Handsome , Fair , and dainty ; And now I find that I grow Old , I'm upward unto Twenty : Yet never a Man , do what I can , or Sweetheart does come to me ; But Night and Day , I sighs and pray , for one to come and Woo me : My Mother she hath promised , as soon as I do Marry , Two Pillows and a Feather Bed , to sleep till I be weary : A pair of Grates : two Pewter-Plates , two Dishes , and a Ladle ; A Dripping-Pan , a Wooden Can , a Jointstool , and a Cradle . I've twenty Shillings , and a Ring , ten Acres of good ground Sir ; I likewise have a better thing , that's well worth thirty pound Sir : I'm all complete , and Sugar-sweet , and soft to admiration : To sport and play , till it be Day , in pleasant Recreytion . M Y Gown it is of darkish blue , my Petticoat's of Scarlet ; I wear the Colour that is true , and hate the name of Harlet ; My Maidenhead is turned to Led , and like a Millstone heavy , Yet none at Night , with Candlelight , does strive to come and ease me . Th'Apprentice of a Waterman , that was both brisk and airy , He did intend me to trappan , and swore he would me marry ; But he before had made a Whore of his own Master's Daughter , And Neighbours all , both great & amp ; small could not refrain from laughter Of Victory he was assured , ever he the fight did venture , He rowed his Wherry straight aboard and under Deck did enter : At twelve a Clock , he did unlock , the Cabin of her pleasure , And with a job he did her rob , of all her hidden Treasure . The young man he was always wild , yet he was well beloved ; The maid she was but seeming mild , as by her belly's proved It mounts up high , and she does cry , that ever she was enticed At game to play that thing away , which she so dearly prised . His Master does commend his wit , his Dame she is enraged , And calls her daughter simple slut . so soon to be engaged : But both intend the ' miss to mend , by covering her miscarriage , And join their hands in wedlock bans by solemnizing marriage . The maid hath whereupon to boast , in finding such a Lover , Who though her maidenhead be lost , her Credit does recover : Oh that I could , I gladly would , even follow this new custom , There's nothing such as take a touch and try before you trust ' um . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 