The SEAMANS Return to his Sweetheart ; OR , The Constant Lovers happy Agreement . When he returned for whom she mourned They both in Love Combine , And did agree most lovingly In Marriage for to join . To the Tune of , Dub a Dub Man. TO Is this eighteen months now since I , Bid adieu to my Dear and my native Country My Fortune on the Sea to try ; but now I'm returned again , I do enjoy my chief delight My heart rejoices at the sighed Of her whom I thought on day and night when I sailed on the Main . Maid . Welcome my Dearest to the shore Thy absence I lamented whom I do so adore , But thou dost all my Joys restore now with sweet Company , Oh how I was oppressed with fear When blustering Winds I used to hear lest they should rob me of my dear when you sailed on the Sea. Man . O my dearest I joy to see That thou art so loyal , true and constant unto me As I likewise have been to thee since that I from thee did part , Though many Beauty's I have seen In France and Spain , and where I've been , Yet thou excellest them all as Queen , and dear Mistress of my Heart . Maid Happy am I my dearest then To place my affections on the Loyalest of men Who love Reward with love again , which makes all my joys complete And in Requital here do I Yield to be thy Bride most joyfully , In Nuptial Bonds our Hearts to tie , and in marriage Joys so sweet . Man. Well since that thou dost then agree , That in lawful Matrimony joined we should be This Ring a Pledge I give to thee let's appoint the wedding-day , I'll work my Dear on Sea or Land Or fight for Gold while I can stand And all shall be at thy command to maintain thee fine and gay . Maid . You may cast Anchor for a while In my Arms is safe harbour all sorrow to beguile Since Fortune now on me does smile . in the enjoyment of you , But o what Grief it'll be to part ; That word strikes Terror to my Heart , And will I fear cause future smart when thou biddest me adieu . Man Let not such sad thoughts cause thy fear I'll send thee loving Letters thy troubled Heart to cheer I always shall think on my Dear when I'm sailing on the Main , I'll Blow the curled Ocean over , And sail from foreign shore to shore , To bring thee Gold and Silver store when I do come home again . Maid But while thou art here free from harms All night I'll enfold and embrace thee in my arms Where no raging Wave nor Storm Alarms which S eamen do oft annoy And when that thou art gone to S ea I'll pray Heaven to prosper thee And keep thee from all dangers free , till you come again with Joy . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The SEAMANS Return to his Sweetheart ; OR , The Constant Lovers happy Agreement . When he returned for whom she mourned They both in Love Combine , And did agree most lovingly In Marriage for to join . To the Tune of , Dub a Dub Man. TO Is this eighteen months now since I , Bid adieu to my Dear and my native Country My Fortune on the Sea to try ; but now I'm returned again , I do enjoy my chief delight My heart rejoices at the sighed Of her whom I thought on day and night when I sailed on the Main . Maid . Welcome my Dearest to the shore Thy absence I lamented whom I do so adore , But thou dost all my Joys restore now with sweet Company , Oh how I was oppressed with fear When blustering Winds I used to hear lest they should rob me of my dear when you sailed on the Sea. Man . O my dearest I joy to see That thou art so loyal , true and constant unto me As I likewise have been to thee since that I from thee did part , Though many Beauty's I have seen In France and Spain , and where I've been , Yet thou excellest them all as Queen , and dear Mistress of my Heart . Maid Happy am I my dearest then To place my affections on the Loyalest of men Who love Reward with love again , which makes all my joys complete And in Requital here do I Yield to be thy Bride most joyfully , In Nuptial Bonds our Hearts to tie , and in marriage Joys so sweet . Man. Well since that thou dost then agree , That in lawful Matrimony joined we should be This Ring a Pledge I give to thee let's appoint the wedding-day , I'll work my Dear on Sea or Land Or fight for Gold while I can stand And all shall be at thy command to maintain thee fine and gay . Maid . You may cast Anchor for a while In my Arms is safe harbour all sorrow to beguile Since Fortune now on me does smile . in the enjoyment of you , But o what Grief it'll be to part ; That word strikes Terror to my Heart , And will I fear cause future smart when thou biddest me adieu . Man Let not such sad thoughts cause thy fear I'll send thee loving Letters thy troubled Heart to cheer I always shall think on my Dear when I'm sailing on the Main , I'll Blow the curled Ocean over , And sail from foreign shore to shore , To bring thee Gold and Silver store when I do come home again . Maid But while thou art here free from harms All night I'll enfold and embrace thee in my arms Where no raging Wave nor Storm Alarms which S eamen do oft annoy And when that thou art gone to S ea I'll pray Heaven to prosper thee And keep thee from all dangers free , till you come again with Joy . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 