The Loyal Seamans Happy Return . The Seamans safe return , has made his lovesick Mistress glad ; Of every storm she was afraid , his Death would make her sad . To the Tune of , Young Jemmy . N Oh longer will I grieve , since my Love is returned , He's Loyal I perceive , for whom so long I mourned : Sad dreams no more my mind torment , nor fill my heart with fear , For now again to my content , I do enjoy my Dear . You Fates that prove so kind , to you I am indebted , Your favour now I find , and never shall forget it ; But while my love was out at Sea , each storm procured my fear , And now I needs must happy be , enjoying of my Dear . Now brackish tears no more , from my poor eyes shall trickle , Since he whom I adore , does scorn for to prove fickle : Him in my arms I will embrace , who does so kind appear , And I am in a happy case , enjoying of my Dear . The Waves seemed to be proud , as my poor Love was Sailing , And Neptune to him vowed , my Prayers were so prevailing : That Heaven to him did prove so kind , that banished all my fear , And eased my once tormented mind , by sending back my Dear . Now shall I die in peace . and never matter trouble , For when my Life does cease , my Comforts will be double : And in the very pains of Death , I shall be freed from fear , And as I spend my Latest breath , I'll cry God bless my Dear . The men Answer . M Y Dear I do Rejoice , to see thou art so pleased , For when I herd thy Voice , my Troubles were appeased : Those sighs & amp ; killing groans which I did use upon the Sea , Are now forgotten , for certainly , I'll live and die with thee . Now must I leave the Main , and tarry with my Dearest , I passed through France and Spain , but still my Love's the Fairest : More beautiful my Love then thou , mine eyes yet never did see , Believe me Love , I now do vow , to live and die with thee . No pleasure can I find , like my true Lovers kisses , And in my loving mind , they are the only blisses , He that such comfort does enjoy , doubtless must happy be , And nothing shall my Love destroy , I'll live and die with thee . You Lovers that are true , come help me to commend her , That she may have her endue , since Heaven did so befriend her : That she all Mortals does exceed , there's none so fair as she , Thou art so just in word and deed , I'll live and die with thee . Now farewell , Fortune's frown , since happy's my condition : And Cupid hath been kind , by granting my petition : Oh! that my joy and hearts delight , might live from Sorrow free , I'de never be out of her sighed , but live and die with thee . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven , in Duck-Lane . The Loyal Seamans Happy Return . The Seamans safe return , has made his lovesick Mistress glad ; Of every storm she was afraid , his Death would make her sad . To the Tune of , Young Jemmy . N Oh longer will I grieve , since my Love is returned , He's Loyal I perceive , for whom so long I mourned : Sad dreams no more my mind torment , nor fill my heart with fear , For now again to my content , I do enjoy my Dear . You Fates that prove so kind , to you I am indebted , Your favour now I find , and never shall forget it ; But while my love was out at Sea , each storm procured my fear , And now I needs must happy be , enjoying of my Dear . Now brackish tears no more , from my poor eyes shall trickle , Since he whom I adore , does scorn for to prove fickle : Him in my arms I will embrace , who does so kind appear , And I am in a happy case , enjoying of my Dear . The Waves seemed to be proud , as my poor Love was Sailing , And Neptune to him vowed , my Prayers were so prevailing : That Heaven to him did prove so kind , that banished all my fear , And eased my once tormented mind , by sending back my Dear . Now shall I die in peace . and never matter trouble , For when my Life does cease , my Comforts will be double : And in the very pains of Death , I shall be freed from fear , And as I spend my Latest breath , I'll cry God bless my Dear . The men Answer . M Y Dear I do Rejoice , to see thou art so pleased , For when I herd thy Voice , my Troubles were appeased : Those sighs & amp ; killing groans which I did use upon the Sea , Are now forgotten , for certainly , I'll live and die with thee . Now must I leave the Main , and tarry with my Dearest , I passed through France and Spain , but still my Love's the Fairest : More beautiful my Love then thou , mine eyes yet never did see , Believe me Love , I now do vow , to live and die with thee . No pleasure can I find , like my true Lovers kisses , And in my loving mind , they are the only blisses , He that such comfort does enjoy , doubtless must happy be , And nothing shall my Love destroy , I'll live and die with thee . You Lovers that are true , come help me to commend her , That she may have her endue , since Heaven did so befriend her : That she all Mortals does exceed , there's none so fair as she , Thou art so just in word and deed , I'll live and die with thee . Now farewell , Fortune's frown , since happy's my condition : And Cupid hath been kind , by granting my petition : Oh! that my joy and hearts delight , might live from Sorrow free , I'de never be out of her sighed , but live and die with thee . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven , in Duck-Lane . 