The Seamans Wives ranting Resolution , OR , Make use of time , while time serves . It is a Proverb old some P eople say , While the Cat is gone the Mouse hath leave to play ; Just so this witty Seamans wife , She is resolved to live a merry life : And while her Husband is abroad for gain , A loving Friend she'l kindly entertain . Tune of Counterfeit u ragio , Or If by your good leave I may , etc , M Y goodman is gone to Sea on the long Voyage Oh : My Goodman is gone to Sea on the long Voyage Oh , He hath left me no money , I'll get some with my Coney : Couragio , Couragio , Couragio , Let him have good Wind and Tide and I do presage Oh : Let him have good Wind and Tide and I do presage Oh : For my self I will provide , And Cornute his head beside , Couragio , etc If he brings home Gold and Pearl , from his long Voyage Oh : If he brings home Gold and Pearl , from his long Voyage Oh : I shall be a ranting Girl , Fit for either Lord or Earl : Couragio , etc I'm a young and lively Dame , twenty years of age Oh : I'm a young and lively Dame , twenty years of age Oh : And I say it is no shame For to play at Venus Game , Couragio etc N Owe the brave youngman is come my love to assuage Oh : Now the brave youngman is come my love to assuage Oh , Prithee dearest strike it home , Found the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum Couragio , Couragio , Couragio , Beatrice allaram beatrice it well , and I will engage Oh : Beatrice allaram beatrice it well , and I will engage Oh : Though you make my belly swell Never fear that I will tell : Couragio , etc Now the fight goes on amain , on the pleasant Stage Oh , Now the fight goes on amain , on the pleasant Stage Oh : We will have the other strain , Rally up and played again , Couragio etc Little thinks my own Goodman , that my Sails are spread Jo , Little thinks my own Goodman that my Sails are spread Jo , We will do the best we can In the Rear and in the Van. Couragio , etc Methinks I feel a little Bird stirring in my Cage Oh : Methinks I feel a little Bird stirring in my Cage Oh : Methinks I feel a little Bird Pierces me much like a sword . Couragio , etc Now my eyes are dazzled quite , while we engage Oh : Now my eyes are dazzled quite while we engage Oh : Never Mars the God of fight , Better pleased his Venus bright , Couragio , etc But our joys must have and end which does me enrage : Oh But our joys must have and end which does me enrage Oh : Fare thee well my dearest Friend , Till again for thee I send . Couragio , etc My Goodman is come on shore , from his long Voyage Oh : My Goodman is come on shore from his long Voyage Oh : He will kiss me ten times more , Then perhaps he'l tell you more Couragio , Couragio , Couragio , Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Seamans Wives ranting Resolution , OR , Make use of time , while time serves . It is a Proverb old some P eople say , While the Cat is gone the Mouse hath leave to play ; Just so this witty Seamans wife , She is resolved to live a merry life : And while her Husband is abroad for gain , A loving Friend she'l kindly entertain . Tune of Counterfeit u ragio , Or If by your good leave I may , etc , M Y goodman is gone to Sea on the long Voyage Oh : My Goodman is gone to Sea on the long Voyage Oh , He hath left me no money , I'll get some with my Coney : Couragio , Couragio , Couragio , Let him have good Wind and Tide and I do presage Oh : Let him have good Wind and Tide and I do presage Oh : For my self I will provide , And Cornute his head beside , Couragio , etc If he brings home Gold and Pearl , from his long Voyage Oh : If he brings home Gold and Pearl , from his long Voyage Oh : I shall be a ranting Girl , Fit for either Lord or Earl : Couragio , etc I'm a young and lively Dame , twenty years of age Oh : I'm a young and lively Dame , twenty years of age Oh : And I say it is no shame For to play at Venus Game , Couragio etc N Owe the brave youngman is come my love to assuage Oh : Now the brave youngman is come my love to assuage Oh , Prithee dearest strike it home , Found the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum Couragio , Couragio , Couragio , Beatrice allaram beatrice it well , and I will engage Oh : Beatrice allaram beatrice it well , and I will engage Oh : Though you make my belly swell Never fear that I will tell : Couragio , etc Now the fight goes on amain , on the pleasant Stage Oh , Now the fight goes on amain , on the pleasant Stage Oh : We will have the other strain , Rally up and played again , Couragio etc Little thinks my own Goodman , that my Sails are spread Jo , Little thinks my own Goodman that my Sails are spread Jo , We will do the best we can In the Rear and in the Van. Couragio , etc Methinks I feel a little Bird stirring in my Cage Oh : Methinks I feel a little Bird stirring in my Cage Oh : Methinks I feel a little Bird Pierces me much like a sword . Couragio , etc Now my eyes are dazzled quite , while we engage Oh : Now my eyes are dazzled quite while we engage Oh : Never Mars the God of fight , Better pleased his Venus bright , Couragio , etc But our joys must have and end which does me enrage : Oh But our joys must have and end which does me enrage Oh : Fare thee well my dearest Friend , Till again for thee I send . Couragio , etc My Goodman is come on shore , from his long Voyage Oh : My Goodman is come on shore from his long Voyage Oh : He will kiss me ten times more , Then perhaps he'l tell you more Couragio , Couragio , Couragio , Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 