A Ship-load of Waggery OR clouded Merriment to please young Men and Maids . Maidens , here's long and strong , both great and small ; For one poor penny you may purchase all . To a new Tune . Or Cloris awake . A Ship must have a Steersman to steer her Course true , And a Maid must have a Youngman to give her her - Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails trimly Maids , if they be not pleased They'll frown and look grimly . A Ship must have Rudder to steer in the dark , And a Maid must have a youngman to hit at her - Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails , etc A Ship she sails must have a Cannon to keep off her Foes , And a Maid must have a youngman to take up her - Top and Top gallant , A ship she sails etc . A Ship she must have a Boltsprit , with a Sprizen a cross , And a maid must have a youngman with a swinging long - Top & amp ; top Gallant A ship she sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased They'll frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Buntlin to haul up her Bunt , And a maid must have a youngman to tickle her - Top and Top gallant A ship she sails trimly Maids , if they be not pleased , They'll frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Mast ; a long , strong , and strait Stick , A and a Maid must have a youngman with a lusty long - top and top , gallant , A ship she , etc A Ship must be well Victualed with Meat without Bones , And a maid would have a youngman with a stout pair of -- top and top gallant , A ship she etc A Ship should have a Captain , her Men to command , And a maid would have a youngman to have his P-Top and Top gallant . A ship she etc A Ship should have a Master to take in her freights , And a maid would have a youngman to sail in her - Top and Top gallant A ship she sails etc When a Ship is under sail we do wish her good luck , And a maid under a youngman we wish her a good - top and top gallant , A ship she etc When a Ship comes into Port she must enter her Cockit , When a youngman come to'the fort he must enter , and - top and top gallant , A ship she sails trimly Maids , if they be not pleased , They'll frown and look grimly . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . A Ship-load of Waggery OR clouded Merriment to please young Men and Maids . Maidens , here's long and strong , both great and small ; For one poor penny you may purchase all . To a new Tune . Or Cloris awake . A Ship must have a Steersman to steer her Course true , And a Maid must have a Youngman to give her her - Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails trimly Maids , if they be not pleased They'll frown and look grimly . A Ship must have Rudder to steer in the dark , And a Maid must have a youngman to hit at her - Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails , etc A Ship she sails must have a Cannon to keep off her Foes , And a Maid must have a youngman to take up her - Top and Top gallant , A ship she sails etc . A Ship she must have a Boltsprit , with a Sprizen a cross , And a maid must have a youngman with a swinging long - Top & amp ; top Gallant A ship she sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased They'll frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Buntlin to haul up her Bunt , And a maid must have a youngman to tickle her - Top and Top gallant A ship she sails trimly Maids , if they be not pleased , They'll frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Mast ; a long , strong , and strait Stick , A and a Maid must have a youngman with a lusty long - top and top , gallant , A ship she , etc A Ship must be well Victualed with Meat without Bones , And a maid would have a youngman with a stout pair of -- top and top gallant , A ship she etc A Ship should have a Captain , her Men to command , And a maid would have a youngman to have his P-Top and Top gallant . A ship she etc A Ship should have a Master to take in her freights , And a maid would have a youngman to sail in her - Top and Top gallant A ship she sails etc When a Ship is under sail we do wish her good luck , And a maid under a youngman we wish her a good - top and top gallant , A ship she etc When a Ship comes into Port she must enter her Cockit , When a youngman come to'the fort he must enter , and - top and top gallant , A ship she sails trimly Maids , if they be not pleased , They'll frown and look grimly . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 