The Unfeigned LOVER , OR , The Loyal Seamans kind Farewell to his Beloved NANCY . He to the Seas resolved to Sail , And bid his Dear adieu , For sighs and tears could not prevail , And yet her Love was true . To the Tune of , The Usurers Daught [ er ] [ That ] is may be Printed , R.P. Man. C Ease my pretty Nancy do not thou bewail , though I here must bid thee now adieu ; We have all things ready now to hoist up Sail , yet I evermore will think on you : And will prove as constant as the Turtle Dove , While I do return to thee my Love ; Therefore take thy pleasure , treasure I will bring When I do return to thee at S pring ; And wheresoever I come thy praises I will sing , As a Pledge with thee i'll leave my Ring . Woman . Oh! what doleful tidings soundeth in my ear , must my Love and I be parted now , In the vail of sorrows I shall bear a share , if your presence here you dissalow : For my heart is wounded , I had rather die , Then be parted from thy company : When my dearest Jewel cruel Seas do roar , Then thy absence I shall much deplore , And wishing thee ten thousand thousand times on shore , Fearing I shall never see thee more . Man. Say not so sweet creature , be not thou dismayed , for I hope I shall return again , We must blow the Ocean to advance a Trade , sailing to the Indies , France , and Spain : Yet wheresoever I go so long as life does last , I will never break the vow that past : Therefore take thy pleasure , treasure I will bring , When I do return to thee at Spring , And wheresoever I come thy praises I will sing , As a Pledge with thee I'll leave my Ring . Woman . TO Ell me not of pleasure , what can I enjoy , since I never do expect to see Thy return in safety , this will me destroy , prithee what is all the world to me : I have no enjoyment but in thee alone , And when thou art gone my joys are flown : When my dearest Jewel , etc Man. Noble brave Commanders with me did prevail , unto whom I also did engage , That along with them I to the Seas would sail , therefore Love let this thy grief assuage ; Here's my hand , my Love I still will Loyal be , Wheresoever I am I'll think on thee : Therefore take thy pleasure , etc Woman . When he talked of going , then her heart did bleed , sorrow did her senses so surprise , Many sighs and tears in her behalf did plead , which did trickle from her tempting eyes : With a sighs she said , Love is there no relief , Must my tender heart be killed with grief . When my dearest Jewel , etc Man. Dearest cease thy weeping , set thy heart at rest , let not fears and fancies thee affright , Through those pathless waves over Neptunes throbbing breast , from my very Youth I took delight : When the hand of Heaven our Ship does steer , In the greatest storm there is no fear . Therefore take thy pleasure , etc Woman . Well my dear said she , and if thou needest must go , seeing thou in this must have thy will , When the storms and most tempestuous winds do blow Heavens be thy guide and guard the still : That thou mayest indeed preserved be alive , Home again in safety to arrive : Though my dearest Jewel cruel waves may roar , When thou art in dangers far from shore ; The Heavens may for thee a blessing have in store , To preserve my Dear whom I adore . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street . The Unfeigned LOVER , OR , The Loyal Seamans kind Farewell to his Beloved NANCY . He to the Seas resolved to Sail , And bid his Dear adieu , For sighs and tears could not prevail , And yet her Love was true . To the Tune of , The Usurers Daught [ er ] [ That ] is may be Printed , R.P. Man. C Ease my pretty Nancy do not thou bewail , though I here must bid thee now adieu ; We have all things ready now to hoist up Sail , yet I evermore will think on you : And will prove as constant as the Turtle Dove , While I do return to thee my Love ; Therefore take thy pleasure , treasure I will bring When I do return to thee at S pring ; And wheresoever I come thy praises I will sing , As a Pledge with thee i'll leave my Ring . Woman . Oh! what doleful tidings soundeth in my ear , must my Love and I be parted now , In the vail of sorrows I shall bear a share , if your presence here you dissalow : For my heart is wounded , I had rather die , Then be parted from thy company : When my dearest Jewel cruel Seas do roar , Then thy absence I shall much deplore , And wishing thee ten thousand thousand times on shore , Fearing I shall never see thee more . Man. Say not so sweet creature , be not thou dismayed , for I hope I shall return again , We must blow the Ocean to advance a Trade , sailing to the Indies , France , and Spain : Yet wheresoever I go so long as life does last , I will never break the vow that past : Therefore take thy pleasure , treasure I will bring , When I do return to thee at Spring , And wheresoever I come thy praises I will sing , As a Pledge with thee I'll leave my Ring . Woman . TO Ell me not of pleasure , what can I enjoy , since I never do expect to see Thy return in safety , this will me destroy , prithee what is all the world to me : I have no enjoyment but in thee alone , And when thou art gone my joys are flown : When my dearest Jewel , etc Man. Noble brave Commanders with me did prevail , unto whom I also did engage , That along with them I to the Seas would sail , therefore Love let this thy grief assuage ; Here's my hand , my Love I still will Loyal be , Wheresoever I am I'll think on thee : Therefore take thy pleasure , etc Woman . When he talked of going , then her heart did bleed , sorrow did her senses so surprise , Many sighs and tears in her behalf did plead , which did trickle from her tempting eyes : With a sighs she said , Love is there no relief , Must my tender heart be killed with grief . When my dearest Jewel , etc Man. Dearest cease thy weeping , set thy heart at rest , let not fears and fancies thee affright , Through those pathless waves over Neptunes throbbing breast , from my very Youth I took delight : When the hand of Heaven our Ship does steer , In the greatest storm there is no fear . Therefore take thy pleasure , etc Woman . Well my dear said she , and if thou needest must go , seeing thou in this must have thy will , When the storms and most tempestuous winds do blow Heavens be thy guide and guard the still : That thou mayest indeed preserved be alive , Home again in safety to arrive : Though my dearest Jewel cruel waves may roar , When thou art in dangers far from shore ; The Heavens may for thee a blessing have in store , To preserve my Dear whom I adore . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street . 