The Hasty Damosel . OR , Her worthy Praise of her Beloved William , a Seaman . The Maid would fain a Husband gain , to give her true content ; Her Mother she most willingly at length did give consent . Tune of , The Seamans departure , or , Doubting Virgin . This may be printed , R.P. M Other , pray when shall I marry , and receive a woman's due ? Do you think that I will tarry while I am as old as you ? Men and Maidens then will flout me , but I now have sweethearts store , Harry , Will and Tom's about me ; nay , beside a dozen more . This did cause her Mother's laughter , then immediately she said , Sure you oned so hasty Daughter , who lives better than a Maid ? This discourse , said she , don't please me , there is Robin , Ralph and Will , Kiss and court , and daily tease me , thus they do torment me still . Three or four each day comes to me , then they seldom do agree ; They so eager are to woo me , that I fear they'll fight for me : But if things were rightly carried , I should led a happy life ; That is , if I once were married this would straightway end the strife . L Ikewise for another Reason I indeed would fain be wed ; In the cold in winter season I shall lie full warm in bed . Then bespoke her loving mother , which of these prey will you have ? Will , said she , above all other , he's a man both neat and brave . Never was a finer Sailor ; every one will speak his praise ; True , I might heave had a Taylor , but I did not like his ways ; He showed me a deal a Cabbage which he pinched the week before ; But I slaved him , and outbraved him , so that he came there no more . After him , a Miller , Mother , came and did in love proceed , But as I had served the tother , so I served him indeed : Neither Miller , no nor Taylor , ever shall my love obtain ; But a noble-hearted Sailor , who hath ploughed the Ocean main . He hath sailed to foreign Nations , in the Straits , to France and Spain ; I of him give this Relation , when as he returned again , Gold and Silver he had plenty , with Apparel neat and trim , Might I have the choice of twenty , i'd forsake them all for him . He is of a comely carriage , like him there is hardly one ; If I ever join in marriage , it shall be with him alone : I will never be unruly , but in true Obedience stand ; Pray now mother tell me truly , is he not a pretty man ? Yes , I like him , therefore Daughter , may you both full happy be ; Marry now , or else hereafter , it shall be all one to me . She no sooner had consented that she should be made a Bride , But the Tears of joy was vented , with a thousand thanks beside . Printed for P. Brouksby at the golden Ball in Py-corner . The Hasty Damosel . OR , Her worthy Praise of her Beloved William , a Seaman . The Maid would fain a Husband gain , to give her true content ; Her Mother she most willingly at length did give consent . Tune of , The Seamans departure , or , Doubting Virgin . This may be printed , R.P. M Other , pray when shall I marry , and receive a woman's due ? Do you think that I will tarry while I am as old as you ? Men and Maidens then will flout me , but I now have sweethearts store , Harry , Will and Tom's about me ; nay , beside a dozen more . This did cause her Mother's laughter , then immediately she said , Sure you oned so hasty Daughter , who lives better than a Maid ? This discourse , said she , don't please me , there is Robin , Ralph and Will , Kiss and court , and daily tease me , thus they do torment me still . Three or four each day comes to me , then they seldom do agree ; They so eager are to woo me , that I fear they'll fight for me : But if things were rightly carried , I should led a happy life ; That is , if I once were married this would straightway end the strife . L Ikewise for another Reason I indeed would fain be wed ; In the cold in winter season I shall lie full warm in bed . Then bespoke her loving mother , which of these prey will you have ? Will , said she , above all other , he's a man both neat and brave . Never was a finer Sailor ; every one will speak his praise ; True , I might heave had a Taylor , but I did not like his ways ; He showed me a deal a Cabbage which he pinched the week before ; But I slaved him , and outbraved him , so that he came there no more . After him , a Miller , Mother , came and did in love proceed , But as I had served the tother , so I served him indeed : Neither Miller , no nor Taylor , ever shall my love obtain ; But a noble-hearted Sailor , who hath ploughed the Ocean main . He hath sailed to foreign Nations , in the Straits , to France and Spain ; I of him give this Relation , when as he returned again , Gold and Silver he had plenty , with Apparel neat and trim , Might I have the choice of twenty , i'd forsake them all for him . He is of a comely carriage , like him there is hardly one ; If I ever join in marriage , it shall be with him alone : I will never be unruly , but in true Obedience stand ; Pray now mother tell me truly , is he not a pretty man ? Yes , I like him , therefore Daughter , may you both full happy be ; Marry now , or else hereafter , it shall be all one to me . She no sooner had consented that she should be made a Bride , But the Tears of joy was vented , with a thousand thanks beside . Printed for P. Brouksby at the golden Ball in Py-corner . 