The Seamens Wives Frolic OVER A BOWL of PUNCH ; Showing how a Jolly Company of Seamens Wives met together to be Merry with a Bowl of PUNCH , and the Delicate pastime that happened thereupon . With their Merry Song in praise of PUNCH . The Jolly Dams were Merry bent , And to be Brisk was their intent : Then to the Alehouse they did go , Their Love to Nobleness to show . For a lusty Bowl of PUNCH they join , Which empts their Pock [ e ] ts of their Coin. To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be printed , R.P. C Ome all you brave Gallants and listen to me , That love Mirth and Pastime , and good jollity ; Here is the best Sport that you ever did see , Where all the good Wives of their Purses are free : Not long ago , as I understand , The Seamen had newly left the Land ; When their merry Wives , who all did command , Did drink the good Liquour and Punch hand to hand . At and Alehouse near London , the place where they meet Each other with kind loving Compliments greet ; then said a brisk Dame , leted have something thats sweet A blind Man , says the other , most gladly would see't ; Come then what you do let us do with a jerk , We have no time for big nor Pork ; Most briskly and merrily ply to the Work , And Sing , though our Husbands be god with the Turk . For forty good Pots of Stale Beer I am debtor , But now a good Bowl of choice Punch will do better ; Then drink Ale or Punch Girls , I do not care whither , Or a Gill of a good Brandy to make my Nose redder : They all then agreed with Mother Bunch , Were clearly for a good Bowl of Punch , It'll make a Man hear though this fourteen years dunch But what shall we do for some Toast for to munch ? Then good Sister Boson , I pray you give ear , Good Punch is a jewel , there's no better cheer ; For Ale it is Gouty , I love no Stale Beer , And for kicking the Guts , I have left it off clear : Come , I have a declicate Holland Cheese , Which my Good Man brought over the Seas ; I'll run home and fetch it all here , if you please , Most briskly and merrily on it we'll seize . Well done Sister Boson , the company said , Then Landlord with speed let the Liquour be made ; For she that refuseth good Punch is a Jade , And Brandy and Sugar does want half her Trade : The Liquour was made , and the Cheese brought in , And now the good Wives most briskly begin , To eat Toast and Cheese must needs be no since , Oh this is the way our hearts for to win . SONG . TO Hen fill us a Bowl , and Rouzing Bowl , As large as our Capacious Soul ; Good Punch is the Liquour without control , Exceeds all other that's under the Pole : Then make is as great as our Thirst does crave , And deep enough to be our Grave ; The Grave we do mean of all our Care , For we do intend to Bury it there . Good Punch is a dainty fine pleasing Liquour , And mighty to make our Noddles the quicker : Our Husbands are now on the Ocean wide , And have it we will what ever betide ; For Flip , my Dear , we care not a Fart , It's Punch alone that comforts the heart ; And love it we will until we depart , Then here's to thee Neighbour with all my heart . To e'ry good Bowl they told it it's doom , And Merrily Danced it about the Room ; With many a pleasant New Song and Catch , And lastly concluded to welcome the Watch ; Who seeing their Dams in this humour , were glad , Then Drink you Rogues until you be Mad ; Good Punch is before you why should you be sad , Come , here's a full Bumper unto thee my Lad. We Seamens brisk Wives are bonny and glad , While our Men on the Ocean are sorry and sad ; We love our Liquour to drink it all up , None of us but love a full Glass or a Cup : For though our Husbands in many a Storm , Endure the worst Toil that ever was bourn ; Yet when they come home they are more forlorn , Because they are forced to Drink out of a Horn . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Sign of the Stationers-Arms , within Aldgate . The Seamens Wives Frolic OVER A BOWL of PUNCH ; Showing how a Jolly Company of Seamens Wives met together to be Merry with a Bowl of PUNCH , and the Delicate pastime that happened thereupon . With their Merry Song in praise of PUNCH . The Jolly Dams were Merry bent , And to be Brisk was their intent : Then to the Alehouse they did go , Their Love to Nobleness to show . For a lusty Bowl of PUNCH they join , Which empts their Pock [ e ] ts of their Coin. To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be printed , R.P. C Ome all you brave Gallants and listen to me , That love Mirth and Pastime , and good jollity ; Here is the best Sport that you ever did see , Where all the good Wives of their Purses are free : Not long ago , as I understand , The Seamen had newly left the Land ; When their merry Wives , who all did command , Did drink the good Liquour and Punch hand to hand . At and Alehouse near London , the place where they meet Each other with kind loving Compliments greet ; then said a brisk Dame , leted have something thats sweet A blind Man , says the other , most gladly would see't ; Come then what you do let us do with a jerk , We have no time for big nor Pork ; Most briskly and merrily ply to the Work , And Sing , though our Husbands be god with the Turk . For forty good Pots of Stale Beer I am debtor , But now a good Bowl of choice Punch will do better ; Then drink Ale or Punch Girls , I do not care whither , Or a Gill of a good Brandy to make my Nose redder : They all then agreed with Mother Bunch , Were clearly for a good Bowl of Punch , It'll make a Man hear though this fourteen years dunch But what shall we do for some Toast for to munch ? Then good Sister Boson , I pray you give ear , Good Punch is a jewel , there's no better cheer ; For Ale it is Gouty , I love no Stale Beer , And for kicking the Guts , I have left it off clear : Come , I have a declicate Holland Cheese , Which my Good Man brought over the Seas ; I'll run home and fetch it all here , if you please , Most briskly and merrily on it we'll seize . Well done Sister Boson , the company said , Then Landlord with speed let the Liquour be made ; For she that refuseth good Punch is a Jade , And Brandy and Sugar does want half her Trade : The Liquour was made , and the Cheese brought in , And now the good Wives most briskly begin , To eat Toast and Cheese must needs be no since , Oh this is the way our hearts for to win . SONG . TO Hen fill us a Bowl , and Rouzing Bowl , As large as our Capacious Soul ; Good Punch is the Liquour without control , Exceeds all other that's under the Pole : Then make is as great as our Thirst does crave , And deep enough to be our Grave ; The Grave we do mean of all our Care , For we do intend to Bury it there . Good Punch is a dainty fine pleasing Liquour , And mighty to make our Noddles the quicker : Our Husbands are now on the Ocean wide , And have it we will what ever betide ; For Flip , my Dear , we care not a Fart , It's Punch alone that comforts the heart ; And love it we will until we depart , Then here's to thee Neighbour with all my heart . To e'ry good Bowl they told it it's doom , And Merrily Danced it about the Room ; With many a pleasant New Song and Catch , And lastly concluded to welcome the Watch ; Who seeing their Dams in this humour , were glad , Then Drink you Rogues until you be Mad ; Good Punch is before you why should you be sad , Come , here's a full Bumper unto thee my Lad. We Seamens brisk Wives are bonny and glad , While our Men on the Ocean are sorry and sad ; We love our Liquour to drink it all up , None of us but love a full Glass or a Cup : For though our Husbands in many a Storm , Endure the worst Toil that ever was bourn ; Yet when they come home they are more forlorn , Because they are forced to Drink out of a Horn . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Sign of the Stationers-Arms , within Aldgate . 