The Seamans safe Return , Or , And answer to the Job for a Journeyman - SHOOMAKER ; When he came here , it did appear She had the Wanton played , A broad she Rolled , and spent his Gold , And drove a Subtle Trade , But when he knew , he then did rue His very heart did bleed But now at last the storm is past And all is well indeed To the Tune of , Tom the Taylor near the Strand . A TO length the Seaman he came home , and herd of this confusion , But how he then did fret and fume , and plague them in conclusion : I now in brief will here declare , the truth of all the story , The like before you never did hear , this did eclipse their Glory . His Neighbours told him of their trade , and how she spent his Money , She with the Shoemaker hath played , and called him joy and honey : This put the Seaman in a rage , and in a hight vexation He vowed nothing should him assuage , he'd make them fly the Nation . But then the Shoemaker did hear , Ah how he was tormented , He trembled and quaked for fear , he could not be contented : For now he see's he is undone , alas what will betide him , He knows not where to go or run , or from his presence hide him . Upon her knees the Seamans wife , beseeched for a pardon , And vowed that she'd amend her life , if that he would not harden His cruel heart against her now , but tenderly forgive her , She'd solemnly protest and vow , she'd be and honest Liver . Likewise the Shoemaker did stand like one that had offended , Before the Seaman Cap in hand , the more to be commended : He wished he never had known the time , when she and he were jolly , For now their merry bouts in Wine , are turned to melancholy . The Seamans Reply . You took your time and spent my Coin , I understand it clearly , I'll make you know before you go , that you shall pay it severely : Before a justice they did go , and all the town did follow The Seaman he his horn did blow , and all the Boys did hollow . When they before the justice came , He told them in conclusion , That they were very much to blame , to make this great confusion ; What need you take it in such scorn , and let the world to know it ; What though indeed you wear the [ horn ] you are a fool to blow it . Be reconciled to your wife , it seems she has repented , And put and end to all the strife , and strive to be contented : What though she once hath done a [ ? ] forbear this cruel Riot , He must put up such faults as this that means to live at quiet . Now shoemaker I tell you plain , this is a sad distraction , Her company you must refrain , this is no civil actium Then be not such a crafty Elf , at any time and season , But let him take her to himself , it is more then reason . The Justice he to make the peace , did use his whole endeavour ; The Seamans love did then increase and they went home together : He vows to marry her again ; she tells him she'l be loyal , And well no more her credit stain , therefore he'l make a trial . The Seaman and the shoemaker Rec [ ? ] and the Seaman and his Wife n [ oh ? ] ried . It being and Excellent C [ ? ] CUCKOLD S . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgat [ e ] The Seamans safe Return , Or , And answer to the Job for a Journeyman - SHOOMAKER ; When he came here , it did appear She had the Wanton played , A broad she Rolled , and spent his Gold , And drove a Subtle Trade , But when he knew , he then did rue His very heart did bleed But now at last the storm is past And all is well indeed To the Tune of , Tom the Taylor near the Strand . A TO length the Seaman he came home , and herd of this confusion , But how he then did fret and fume , and plague them in conclusion : I now in brief will here declare , the truth of all the story , The like before you never did hear , this did eclipse their Glory . His Neighbours told him of their trade , and how she spent his Money , She with the Shoemaker hath played , and called him joy and honey : This put the Seaman in a rage , and in a hight vexation He vowed nothing should him assuage , he'd make them fly the Nation . But then the Shoemaker did hear , Ah how he was tormented , He trembled and quaked for fear , he could not be contented : For now he see's he is undone , alas what will betide him , He knows not where to go or run , or from his presence hide him . Upon her knees the Seamans wife , beseeched for a pardon , And vowed that she'd amend her life , if that he would not harden His cruel heart against her now , but tenderly forgive her , She'd solemnly protest and vow , she'd be and honest Liver . Likewise the Shoemaker did stand like one that had offended , Before the Seaman Cap in hand , the more to be commended : He wished he never had known the time , when she and he were jolly , For now their merry bouts in Wine , are turned to melancholy . The Seamans Reply . You took your time and spent my Coin , I understand it clearly , I'll make you know before you go , that you shall pay it severely : Before a justice they did go , and all the town did follow The Seaman he his horn did blow , and all the Boys did hollow . When they before the justice came , He told them in conclusion , That they were very much to blame , to make this great confusion ; What need you take it in such scorn , and let the world to know it ; What though indeed you wear the [ horn ] you are a fool to blow it . Be reconciled to your wife , it seems she has repented , And put and end to all the strife , and strive to be contented : What though she once hath done a [ ? ] forbear this cruel Riot , He must put up such faults as this that means to live at quiet . Now shoemaker I tell you plain , this is a sad distraction , Her company you must refrain , this is no civil actium Then be not such a crafty Elf , at any time and season , But let him take her to himself , it is more then reason . The Justice he to make the peace , did use his whole endeavour ; The Seamans love did then increase and they went home together : He vows to marry her again ; she tells him she'l be loyal , And well no more her credit stain , therefore he'l make a trial . The Seaman and the shoemaker Rec [ ? ] and the Seaman and his Wife n [ oh ? ] ried . It being and Excellent C [ ? ] CUCKOLD S . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgat [ e ] 