The Seamans doleful Farewell Or , The Greenwitch Lovers mournful Departure , See here the pattern of true Love , which absence cannot strain ; And nothing shall his mind remove , till he returns again . This may be printed , R.P. Tune of , State and Ambition . Man. [ F ] Arewel my dearest Love now must I leave thee , to the East-Indies my Course I must steer , [ a ] and when I think upon't soar it does grieve me ; let nothing possess thee with doubt or with fear , [ r ] i'll be Loyal unto thee for ever , and like to the Turtle will constant remain , [ n ] othing but cruel Death our loves shall sever , but we will be married when I come again . Maid . [ ? ] worser must we by Fortune thus strangely be parted ? what dost thou think will become then of me , [ w ] ho must continue here quite brokenhearted , [ ? ] tO me thy true Love now venture with thee : [ fe ] are not the dangers that wait on the Ocean , [ tO ] hy troubles will greater be here on the shore ; [ ? ] r thy true Love now grant what she does motion [ ? ] she shall see thee no more . Man. With dangers on Seas thou art ilttle acquainted , for when the winds blow and the billows do roar , I fear that my true-Love will greatly be daunted , then let me entreat thee to stay on the shore : My heart in thy breast I will sure leave behind me , and thou of my constancy never shalt complain , A pattern of true love thou ever shalt find me , and we will be married when I come again . Maid . How many like thee that are constant and loyal do venture to Sea and do never return ? Then grant me my suit and make no more denial , for I in thine absence for ever shall mourn : O like to a Seaboy let me be attired , and talk not of leaving me here on the shore , Thy company by me so much is desired , that sure I should die should I see thee no more . Man. Cease my true Love , and no more do persuade me , why shouldst thou run hazards just now in thy prime Thy true Love for ever blind Cupid hath made me , and thou to the Topmast i'm sure canst not climb ; Thy Lily-white hand cannot handle the Tackle , the Pitch and the Tar on thy palms will remain : Though now thou art fettered in Cupids strong shackle , yet we will be married when I come again . Maid . Go them my true Love and Heavens great blessing where ever thou dost sail still upon thee attend , Love is a pleasure beyond all expressing , and Neptune my dearest I pray thee defend : For if in mine absence my Love should miscarry , whom I for his Virtues do so much adore , Then I of my life without doubt should be weary , and pine to my Grave should I see thee no more . Man. Come be of good comfort and grieve not my dearest , for I am as loath from my Love to depart , Heaven can prevent all the dangers thou fearest , then let nor such jealousies throuble thy heart : For should I behold all the Beauty's in Venice , yet still to my Dear I would constant remain , And nothing shall cause any difference between us , but we will be married when I come again . Maid . I long for that hour and covet the minute when Hymen my true Love and me shall unite ; I surfeit to think of the pleasure there's in it , it's comfort by day , but far sweeter by night , When we like true Lovers shall join our poor fates and find such delight as I never knew before , This for certain a bliss for to lie in embraces , and then I will part with my true Love no more . Man. Well now the wind serves , in despite I must leave thee but at our farewell let us change a sweet kiss : Again I do swear I will never deceive thee , and hope at the last to enjoy what I wish ; Still hoping that Fortune will show me such favour that I may be prosperous on the Salt Main , My true Love in sorrow I fear for to leave her , but hope to enjoy her when I come again , Maid . Then down their poor [ ? ] whole volleys of sighs [ ? ] At last he prevailed by little and [ little ] that he might be gone , and she [ might not ? : ] But kisses at parting were woe [ ? ] and needs it must be that it [ grieves ? ] Tears they did drop till their eyes [ ? ] for fear she her true Love should [ ? ] Printed for J . Deacon at the sign of the Angel in Gilt-spurr street . The Seamans doleful Farewell Or , The Greenwitch Lovers mournful Departure , See here the pattern of true Love , which absence cannot strain ; And nothing shall his mind remove , till he returns again . This may be printed , R.P. Tune of , State and Ambition . Man. [ F ] Arewel my dearest Love now must I leave thee , to the East-Indies my Course I must steer , [ a ] and when I think upon't soar it does grieve me ; let nothing possess thee with doubt or with fear , [ r ] i'll be Loyal unto thee for ever , and like to the Turtle will constant remain , [ n ] othing but cruel Death our loves shall sever , but we will be married when I come again . Maid . [ ? ] worser must we by Fortune thus strangely be parted ? what dost thou think will become then of me , [ w ] ho must continue here quite brokenhearted , [ ? ] tO me thy true Love now venture with thee : [ fe ] are not the dangers that wait on the Ocean , [ tO ] hy troubles will greater be here on the shore ; [ ? ] r thy true Love now grant what she does motion [ ? ] she shall see thee no more . Man. With dangers on Seas thou art ilttle acquainted , for when the winds blow and the billows do roar , I fear that my true-Love will greatly be daunted , then let me entreat thee to stay on the shore : My heart in thy breast I will sure leave behind me , and thou of my constancy never shalt complain , A pattern of true love thou ever shalt find me , and we will be married when I come again . Maid . How many like thee that are constant and loyal do venture to Sea and do never return ? Then grant me my suit and make no more denial , for I in thine absence for ever shall mourn : O like to a Seaboy let me be attired , and talk not of leaving me here on the shore , Thy company by me so much is desired , that sure I should die should I see thee no more . Man. Cease my true Love , and no more do persuade me , why shouldst thou run hazards just now in thy prime Thy true Love for ever blind Cupid hath made me , and thou to the Topmast i'm sure canst not climb ; Thy Lily-white hand cannot handle the Tackle , the Pitch and the Tar on thy palms will remain : Though now thou art fettered in Cupids strong shackle , yet we will be married when I come again . Maid . Go them my true Love and Heavens great blessing where ever thou dost sail still upon thee attend , Love is a pleasure beyond all expressing , and Neptune my dearest I pray thee defend : For if in mine absence my Love should miscarry , whom I for his Virtues do so much adore , Then I of my life without doubt should be weary , and pine to my Grave should I see thee no more . Man. Come be of good comfort and grieve not my dearest , for I am as loath from my Love to depart , Heaven can prevent all the dangers thou fearest , then let nor such jealousies throuble thy heart : For should I behold all the Beauty's in Venice , yet still to my Dear I would constant remain , And nothing shall cause any difference between us , but we will be married when I come again . Maid . I long for that hour and covet the minute when Hymen my true Love and me shall unite ; I surfeit to think of the pleasure there's in it , it's comfort by day , but far sweeter by night , When we like true Lovers shall join our poor fates and find such delight as I never knew before , This for certain a bliss for to lie in embraces , and then I will part with my true Love no more . Man. Well now the wind serves , in despite I must leave thee but at our farewell let us change a sweet kiss : Again I do swear I will never deceive thee , and hope at the last to enjoy what I wish ; Still hoping that Fortune will show me such favour that I may be prosperous on the Salt Main , My true Love in sorrow I fear for to leave her , but hope to enjoy her when I come again , Maid . Then down their poor [ ? ] whole volleys of sighs [ ? ] At last he prevailed by little and [ little ] that he might be gone , and she [ might not ? : ] But kisses at parting were woe [ ? ] and needs it must be that it [ grieves ? ] Tears they did drop till their eyes [ ? ] for fear she her true Love should [ ? ] Printed for J . Deacon at the sign of the Angel in Gilt-spurr street . 