A Job for a Journeyman-Shoomaker , With a Kindhearted Seamans Wife , his Landlady : She was his loving Landlady , And she would well afford To give him Clothes and Money too and also Bed and Board . To the Tune of , Tom the Taylor . A Seamans Wife , a buxom Dame , a Shoemaker did jumble , For she was right and fit for Game , as good as ever did tumble : And he a brisk and bonny Blade , no Ranter nor no Quaker , But of the Gentle-Craft by Trade , a Journeyman Shoemaker , Upon a day it chanced so , as she abroad was walking , She to the Shoemaker did go , to have some serious talking : She showed him many a pretty toy , in Courting and in Billing , And called him her only joy , to make him kind and willing , Thou knowest I am a Seamans Wife , thou needest not fear to venture , And we will live a merry life , and thou shalt freely enter : And when my Husband goes to Sea , to raise his own promotion , Oh thee and I will make it fly , while he Sails on the Ocean . She gave him a new suit of Clothes , two Shirts and other Linen , She also gave him Shoes and Hose , this was a good beginning : But yet he still was something Coy , his Courage waxed colder , She stroked him , and called him joy , kissed him and made him bolder . At length he made no more dispute , but willingly consented , Then gallantly they did go to't , and she was well contented : My bonny Boy , Oh here behold , thou art my joy and honey , Here's fifteen pound for thee in Gold thou shalt not want for money . She clothed him new from top to toe , the Shoemaker was jolly , Then to the Tavern they did go , to drown their Melancholy : They called there for store of Wine , to make their hearts full merry , In Love they passed away the time , and drank both Sack and Sherry . My Love i'll be a Friend to thee , I can't forbear to show it , Let me enjoy the like of thee , what need my Husband know it ? While he is on the Ocean wide , at work for Gold and Treasure , My dear thou shalt lie by my side , and there enjoy thy pleasure . The Shoemaker was pleased at this he had both Clothes and Money , The which procured her a kiss , more sweet than drops of Honey ; She was not coy , but called him [ ? ] her milkwhite hand did stroke him , To led the way to Venus sport , and by this means provoke him , To play with her the other strain , for it was her desire , The Shoemaker he did complain , that he began to tyre : But yet she would not let him go , Oh he was forced to touze her , The Shoemaker did puff and blow , but he at the last did please her . They called them for Wine a pace , so set their Hearts a soaking , And they did bravely suck their face , till they fell both a yoking : Thw Wine into their Brains did flow , but mark what followed after , Oh they could neither stand nor go , which caused a deal of Laughter . O let them laugh that wins , said she , for we will change Embraces , My love and I will merry be , when no one sees our faces : For though my husband sails the Main in many a bitter storm Sir , Yet when he does return again , he shall drink in the Horn Sir . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street ; without Newgate . A Job for a Journeyman-Shoomaker , With a Kindhearted Seamans Wife , his Landlady : She was his loving Landlady , And she would well afford To give him Clothes and Money too and also Bed and Board . To the Tune of , Tom the Taylor . A Seamans Wife , a buxom Dame , a Shoemaker did jumble , For she was right and fit for Game , as good as ever did tumble : And he a brisk and bonny Blade , no Ranter nor no Quaker , But of the Gentle-Craft by Trade , a Journeyman Shoemaker , Upon a day it chanced so , as she abroad was walking , She to the Shoemaker did go , to have some serious talking : She showed him many a pretty toy , in Courting and in Billing , And called him her only joy , to make him kind and willing , Thou knowest I am a Seamans Wife , thou needest not fear to venture , And we will live a merry life , and thou shalt freely enter : And when my Husband goes to Sea , to raise his own promotion , Oh thee and I will make it fly , while he Sails on the Ocean . She gave him a new suit of Clothes , two Shirts and other Linen , She also gave him Shoes and Hose , this was a good beginning : But yet he still was something Coy , his Courage waxed colder , She stroked him , and called him joy , kissed him and made him bolder . At length he made no more dispute , but willingly consented , Then gallantly they did go to't , and she was well contented : My bonny Boy , Oh here behold , thou art my joy and honey , Here's fifteen pound for thee in Gold thou shalt not want for money . She clothed him new from top to toe , the Shoemaker was jolly , Then to the Tavern they did go , to drown their Melancholy : They called there for store of Wine , to make their hearts full merry , In Love they passed away the time , and drank both Sack and Sherry . My Love i'll be a Friend to thee , I can't forbear to show it , Let me enjoy the like of thee , what need my Husband know it ? While he is on the Ocean wide , at work for Gold and Treasure , My dear thou shalt lie by my side , and there enjoy thy pleasure . The Shoemaker was pleased at this he had both Clothes and Money , The which procured her a kiss , more sweet than drops of Honey ; She was not coy , but called him [ ? ] her milkwhite hand did stroke him , To led the way to Venus sport , and by this means provoke him , To play with her the other strain , for it was her desire , The Shoemaker he did complain , that he began to tyre : But yet she would not let him go , Oh he was forced to touze her , The Shoemaker did puff and blow , but he at the last did please her . They called them for Wine a pace , so set their Hearts a soaking , And they did bravely suck their face , till they fell both a yoking : Thw Wine into their Brains did flow , but mark what followed after , Oh they could neither stand nor go , which caused a deal of Laughter . O let them laugh that wins , said she , for we will change Embraces , My love and I will merry be , when no one sees our faces : For though my husband sails the Main in many a bitter storm Sir , Yet when he does return again , he shall drink in the Horn Sir . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street ; without Newgate . 