The Sorrowful Ladies Comp [ laint ] [ How a ] Damosel Lamenteth the loss of her Lover , who behaved himself very Valiantly in a late Engagement at Sea , but at last was unfortunately Slave . This Stories known both far and wide , To Holland's wonder , England's Pride ; Come therefore every Loyal Heart , And in my burden bear a part . To the Tune of , The Earl of Sandwich farewell . O Ne morning I walked by myself on the shore , When the Tempest did sing and the Waves they did roar , Yet the voice of the winds and the waters was drowned , By the pitiful cry and the sorrowful found , Of ah ! ah ! my Love's dead , There is not a Bell But a Triton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Love's knell , It troubled me much when I herd all her grief , But hoping it might not be passed all Relief , I followed the voice till at last I espied , A sorrowful Lady , and all that she cried , Was ah , ah , ah , my Love's dead , There is not a Bell , But a Triton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Love's knell . A handsomer Damosel sure never were seen , With a face like and Angel , a Robe like a Queen , A Voice like a Syren , and Eyes like a Dove , Yet ever she cried for the loss of her Love ; Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , etc When my Love was alive his courage was such , He conquered the Dane , and affrighted the Dutch , He ventured to show he never feared to die , But woe be to me that for ever must cry , Ah , ah , ah , my Love's dead , There is not a Bell , But a Triton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Love's knell . Surrounded with Ships and asaulted by Foes , He stoutly received , and returned their blows ; So well he did manage his Ship in the strife , That he never would yield till he yielded his life , Ah , ah , ah , my Love's dead , etc To recall him to life , O what would I give ? But since he is dead , it's no pleasure to live , He ventured for me , and shall I be afraid , To die for my love ? it shall never be said : Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , There is not a Bell , But a Triton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Love's knell . The second Part , [ to the ] same Tune : M [ Y ] Love lies now in his watery Grave , And hath nothing to show for his Tomb but a Wave , I'll kiss his dear lips , then the Corral more Read , That grows where he lies in his watery Bed , Ah , ah , ah , my Love's dead , TO here is not a Bell , but a Tryton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Loves knell . The Oriential Pearl , which the Ocean bestows , We'll mix with a Corral , a Crown to compose : The Sea Nymphs shall grieve , and envy our bliss , We'll teach them to love and like Cockels to kiss , Ah , ah , ah , my Love , dead , There is not a Bell , but a Trytons shell ; To ring , to ring , to ring my Loves knell . I'll go to my Love that lies in the deep , And in my embraces my dearest shall sleep , When awake , the kind Dolphins together shall throng , In Chariots of Shells to convey him along . Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , There is not a Bell , but a Trytons shell ; To ring , to ring , to ring my Loves knell . And just as she spoke , she was casting her self From the top of a Rock on a dangerous shelf , But I being near her made haste to her aid , And saved her from falling , when just she had said Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , There is not a Bell , But a Trytons shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Loves knell . Fair Lady , said I , whither Maiden or Wife , Your death will not call the departed to Life : Loves fire goes out at the loss of the Fuel , And though you be constant , you need not be cruel . Ah! what though your Loves dead , Yet he had a Bell , Not a Trytons shell To ring , to ring , to ring out his knell . She started to find this unhappy surprise , With grief in her face , and disdain in her eyes , She told me my kindness had done her much wrong , And prayed me to bear but a part in her Song : Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , There was not a bell , But a Trytons shell , To ring , to ring , to ring out his knell . London , Printed for Phillip Brooksby , at the Hospital-gate , in West-smith-field . The Sorrowful Ladies Comp [ laint ] [ How a ] Damosel Lamenteth the loss of her Lover , who behaved himself very Valiantly in a late Engagement at Sea , but at last was unfortunately Slave . This Stories known both far and wide , To Holland's wonder , England's Pride ; Come therefore every Loyal Heart , And in my burden bear a part . To the Tune of , The Earl of Sandwich farewell . O Ne morning I walked by myself on the shore , When the Tempest did sing and the Waves they did roar , Yet the voice of the winds and the waters was drowned , By the pitiful cry and the sorrowful found , Of ah ! ah ! my Love's dead , There is not a Bell But a Triton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Love's knell , It troubled me much when I herd all her grief , But hoping it might not be passed all Relief , I followed the voice till at last I espied , A sorrowful Lady , and all that she cried , Was ah , ah , ah , my Love's dead , There is not a Bell , But a Triton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Love's knell . A handsomer Damosel sure never were seen , With a face like and Angel , a Robe like a Queen , A Voice like a Syren , and Eyes like a Dove , Yet ever she cried for the loss of her Love ; Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , etc When my Love was alive his courage was such , He conquered the Dane , and affrighted the Dutch , He ventured to show he never feared to die , But woe be to me that for ever must cry , Ah , ah , ah , my Love's dead , There is not a Bell , But a Triton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Love's knell . Surrounded with Ships and asaulted by Foes , He stoutly received , and returned their blows ; So well he did manage his Ship in the strife , That he never would yield till he yielded his life , Ah , ah , ah , my Love's dead , etc To recall him to life , O what would I give ? But since he is dead , it's no pleasure to live , He ventured for me , and shall I be afraid , To die for my love ? it shall never be said : Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , There is not a Bell , But a Triton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Love's knell . The second Part , [ to the ] same Tune : M [ Y ] Love lies now in his watery Grave , And hath nothing to show for his Tomb but a Wave , I'll kiss his dear lips , then the Corral more Read , That grows where he lies in his watery Bed , Ah , ah , ah , my Love's dead , TO here is not a Bell , but a Tryton's shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Loves knell . The Oriential Pearl , which the Ocean bestows , We'll mix with a Corral , a Crown to compose : The Sea Nymphs shall grieve , and envy our bliss , We'll teach them to love and like Cockels to kiss , Ah , ah , ah , my Love , dead , There is not a Bell , but a Trytons shell ; To ring , to ring , to ring my Loves knell . I'll go to my Love that lies in the deep , And in my embraces my dearest shall sleep , When awake , the kind Dolphins together shall throng , In Chariots of Shells to convey him along . Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , There is not a Bell , but a Trytons shell ; To ring , to ring , to ring my Loves knell . And just as she spoke , she was casting her self From the top of a Rock on a dangerous shelf , But I being near her made haste to her aid , And saved her from falling , when just she had said Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , There is not a Bell , But a Trytons shell , To ring , to ring , to ring my Loves knell . Fair Lady , said I , whither Maiden or Wife , Your death will not call the departed to Life : Loves fire goes out at the loss of the Fuel , And though you be constant , you need not be cruel . Ah! what though your Loves dead , Yet he had a Bell , Not a Trytons shell To ring , to ring , to ring out his knell . She started to find this unhappy surprise , With grief in her face , and disdain in her eyes , She told me my kindness had done her much wrong , And prayed me to bear but a part in her Song : Ah , ah , ah , my Loves dead , There was not a bell , But a Trytons shell , To ring , to ring , to ring out his knell . London , Printed for Phillip Brooksby , at the Hospital-gate , in West-smith-field . 