The Seamans Constancy , Or , True-Lovers Fidelity . Being and Account of a Young man in Wapping , who took his leave of his beloved I sabella , in [ this ] sorrowful manner . Written with his own hand a little before he went to Sea. W . WORSER . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . This may be Printed , R. L. S. Youngman . WORSER Earest dear we must be parted , be not troubled at the same , I'll to thee prove Loyal-hearted , else I greatly were to blame : It does grieve me for to leave thee , but I cannot it prevent , If Man more faithful , least deceitful , never from Old England went . Maid . Why should I then stay behind you , and to Death in sorrow pine ? I shall nothing do but mind thee , in my heart thou'rt wholly mine : In great anguish I shall languish , if you leave me on the Shore , My only Dear , I greatly fear , that I shall see thy face no more . Man . Cheer up my Dear , and do not doubt it , why shouldst thou create thy pain ? It's better for you to believe it , all your Sighs are but in vain : To Sea I must , but don't mistrust that thy Love will prove unkind , For my delight is in thy sighed , nothing but Death shall change my mind : Maid . I will as constant be to thee , as the Turtle's to his Mate , Constancy shall dwell within me , all false dealings I do hate : Lovers Kisses are great blisses , when their hearts are joined in one , And then again as great a pain , as when Unconstancy is shown . Man. TO How unconstant never shall find me , let such thoughts never trouble thee , In my absence I shall mind thee , in my heart thou shalt ever be : Be constant then , by Heaven it's meant , that we should both together come , And i'll complete thy joys , my sweet , as soon as I'm returned home . Maid . Every blusting Storm will fright me , while thou art upon the Main , There is nothing can delight me , till thou dost return again : Nor shall I sleep , nor quiet keep , till I thy face again behold , And thou to me , more dear shalt be , then all the Mines of Indian Gold . Man Every Roaring Surging Billow , will put me in mind of thee , I could wish my self on thy Pillow , there delighted for to be : Although the Waves to some prove Graves , I hope they'll not do so to me , Do not complain , my only Swain , I'll come my Dear to Marry thee . Maid . I shall be with joy Transported , when again thy Face I see , And shall think how thou hast Courted , when thou wertenberg some Leagues from me : Thy very Name will cause a flame to kindle in my tender Breast , Until I be Married to thee , with sorrow I shall be possessed . Man. Oh my Dear , talk not of Sorrow , it is a trouble for to hear , And my heart is pierced thorough , pray then banish all thy fear : And I protest , I do not jest , when I did love to thee pretend , I will be thine , and thou shalt be mine , and so remain till our lives end . Friendly these two Lovers parted , he unto the Ocean went , She was almost brokenhearted , in his absence did lament : He remained greatly pained , a Lover constant , firm , and true , Till he did come from the Straights home , his Lovers joys for to renew . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . The Seamans Constancy , Or , True-Lovers Fidelity . Being and Account of a Young man in Wapping , who took his leave of his beloved I sabella , in [ this ] sorrowful manner . Written with his own hand a little before he went to Sea. W . WORSER . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . This may be Printed , R. L. S. Youngman . WORSER Earest dear we must be parted , be not troubled at the same , I'll to thee prove Loyal-hearted , else I greatly were to blame : It does grieve me for to leave thee , but I cannot it prevent , If Man more faithful , least deceitful , never from Old England went . Maid . Why should I then stay behind you , and to Death in sorrow pine ? I shall nothing do but mind thee , in my heart thou'rt wholly mine : In great anguish I shall languish , if you leave me on the Shore , My only Dear , I greatly fear , that I shall see thy face no more . Man . Cheer up my Dear , and do not doubt it , why shouldst thou create thy pain ? It's better for you to believe it , all your Sighs are but in vain : To Sea I must , but don't mistrust that thy Love will prove unkind , For my delight is in thy sighed , nothing but Death shall change my mind : Maid . I will as constant be to thee , as the Turtle's to his Mate , Constancy shall dwell within me , all false dealings I do hate : Lovers Kisses are great blisses , when their hearts are joined in one , And then again as great a pain , as when Unconstancy is shown . Man. TO How unconstant never shall find me , let such thoughts never trouble thee , In my absence I shall mind thee , in my heart thou shalt ever be : Be constant then , by Heaven it's meant , that we should both together come , And i'll complete thy joys , my sweet , as soon as I'm returned home . Maid . Every blusting Storm will fright me , while thou art upon the Main , There is nothing can delight me , till thou dost return again : Nor shall I sleep , nor quiet keep , till I thy face again behold , And thou to me , more dear shalt be , then all the Mines of Indian Gold . Man Every Roaring Surging Billow , will put me in mind of thee , I could wish my self on thy Pillow , there delighted for to be : Although the Waves to some prove Graves , I hope they'll not do so to me , Do not complain , my only Swain , I'll come my Dear to Marry thee . Maid . I shall be with joy Transported , when again thy Face I see , And shall think how thou hast Courted , when thou wertenberg some Leagues from me : Thy very Name will cause a flame to kindle in my tender Breast , Until I be Married to thee , with sorrow I shall be possessed . Man. Oh my Dear , talk not of Sorrow , it is a trouble for to hear , And my heart is pierced thorough , pray then banish all thy fear : And I protest , I do not jest , when I did love to thee pretend , I will be thine , and thou shalt be mine , and so remain till our lives end . Friendly these two Lovers parted , he unto the Ocean went , She was almost brokenhearted , in his absence did lament : He remained greatly pained , a Lover constant , firm , and true , Till he did come from the Straights home , his Lovers joys for to renew . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 