The Seamans Lamentation : Or , The CAPTAIN at the Helm . Showing how and East-India-Captain in Redderiff Entertained his Boats-Swains Wife , in her Husbands ab - sense , and sent him a Voyage to Cuckold-Shire ; whence every jovial and loving S eaman may learn Wisdom , and how to be wary , and not to trust his best beloved in his Captains Arms. To the Tune of , Jenny Gin , Or , Heigh boys up go we . This may be Printed . R.L.S. June 23d . N One can endure the flames of Love when Cupid sets on fire , For Youth's like Tinder to the eye , when beauty breeds desire ; A Married life's the antidote of Love , and wanton is , But now it is my Fate to be a Cuckold I must confess . I am a Seaman by my trade , a Boats-Swain by my place , I loved a Maid that was complete , and handsome in the face : Her birth and breeding pleased me well , her name was comely Bess , But now it is my Fate to be a Cuckold I must confess . I found her in her Mother's house , and begged at her to sing , I liked her well , and gave to her a pure Cornelian Ring : But after taking kisses two , my Love it did increase , But now it is my Fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess : I felt her pulse , it pleased me well , I loved her as my life , I seriously inquired of her if she would be my Wife : I gained consent , I kissed her then , and kindly did embrace , But now it is my fate to be , a Cuckold I must confess . I went with her to Redderiff Church , in Wedlock did her tie , She was as sweet a Bedfellow as ever man lay by : I lived with her a whole years space , in love and joyfulness , But now it is my fate to be a Cuckold I must confess . I to the Indies made a Voyage , and sailed the swelling Main , I pleased my Captain , and the Mate , and gladly came again : Yet all the time I was at Sea , my heart she did possess , But now it is my fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess . My wife and I did gladly meet , and were possessed with joy , I kissed my dear and loving Spouse , and hugged my pretty Boy But ever a month did go about , my sorrow did increase , For now it is my fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess . I was from home , the Captain came , and asked if all were well , He with my wife did dance a jig , which I am ashamed to tell : He took the helm , and steered a trick , in mirth , and Wantonness , B ut now it is my fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess . The Horns are much in fashion now , and since they are my [ fate ] , I'll wear them in my pocket still , and not upon my pate : For since they are my destiny , I can not blame poor B ess , Although it is my fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess . Printed for J. B ack , at the Sign of the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . The Seamans Lamentation : Or , The CAPTAIN at the Helm . Showing how and East-India-Captain in Redderiff Entertained his Boats-Swains Wife , in her Husbands ab - sense , and sent him a Voyage to Cuckold-Shire ; whence every jovial and loving S eaman may learn Wisdom , and how to be wary , and not to trust his best beloved in his Captains Arms. To the Tune of , Jenny Gin , Or , Heigh boys up go we . This may be Printed . R.L.S. June 23d . N One can endure the flames of Love when Cupid sets on fire , For Youth's like Tinder to the eye , when beauty breeds desire ; A Married life's the antidote of Love , and wanton is , But now it is my Fate to be a Cuckold I must confess . I am a Seaman by my trade , a Boats-Swain by my place , I loved a Maid that was complete , and handsome in the face : Her birth and breeding pleased me well , her name was comely Bess , But now it is my Fate to be a Cuckold I must confess . I found her in her Mother's house , and begged at her to sing , I liked her well , and gave to her a pure Cornelian Ring : But after taking kisses two , my Love it did increase , But now it is my Fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess : I felt her pulse , it pleased me well , I loved her as my life , I seriously inquired of her if she would be my Wife : I gained consent , I kissed her then , and kindly did embrace , But now it is my fate to be , a Cuckold I must confess . I went with her to Redderiff Church , in Wedlock did her tie , She was as sweet a Bedfellow as ever man lay by : I lived with her a whole years space , in love and joyfulness , But now it is my fate to be a Cuckold I must confess . I to the Indies made a Voyage , and sailed the swelling Main , I pleased my Captain , and the Mate , and gladly came again : Yet all the time I was at Sea , my heart she did possess , But now it is my fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess . My wife and I did gladly meet , and were possessed with joy , I kissed my dear and loving Spouse , and hugged my pretty Boy But ever a month did go about , my sorrow did increase , For now it is my fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess . I was from home , the Captain came , and asked if all were well , He with my wife did dance a jig , which I am ashamed to tell : He took the helm , and steered a trick , in mirth , and Wantonness , B ut now it is my fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess . The Horns are much in fashion now , and since they are my [ fate ] , I'll wear them in my pocket still , and not upon my pate : For since they are my destiny , I can not blame poor B ess , Although it is my fate to be a Cuckold , I must confess . Printed for J. B ack , at the Sign of the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . 