The Boatswains Call ; OR , The Courageous Mariners Invitation to all his Brother Sailors , to forsake Friends and Relations , for to fight in the defence of their King and Country . To the Tune of , Ring of Gold . Licencsed according to Order . S Tout Seamen come away , never be daunted : For if at home you stay , then it is granted The Fleet can never be Manned for the Ocean , To Fight the Enemy , and gain Promotion . Lewis that Christian - TURK makes preparation ; His Engines are at work in Consultation [ , ] Thinking to Ruin quite all Christian Princes ; But we their wrongs will right , at Life's expenses . The Mighty force of France , we never valve For when we once advance , we will not dally : But on the Ocean wide , ( through blessed permission ) We'll soon subdue their Pride , and grand Ambition . Therefore with Courage bold , Boys , let us venture , Like noble hearts of Gold , now freely enter Your names on Board the Fleet , all Friends forsaking , That we may soon Complete this under taking . Is it not that the Land , might be defended , By a Victorious hand , though France intended To lay a heavy Yoke , on a free Nation ; Boys let a fatal stroke , prove their vexation . But yet my thinks I hear some Cowards crying , The Press they dread and fear , as much as dying : And skulk like frighted Slaves , here in distraction [ , ] To hide in Dens and Caves , from Warlike Actium . Yet some declare they fight , but a dear Mother , Who counts him her delight , above all other ; She loves him as her Life , parting would grieve her , Another has a Wife , he's loath to leave her . Thus Cowards they can find excuses many , To tarry here behind , yet there's not any Right Valiant Noble Soul heeds a Relation , He'll fight against Control for this his Nation . Has not Men wished and cried , a war with France , Boys , That on the Ocean wide we may advance , Boys , To storm and shake their throne , no danger fearing ; This has been still their Tone , oft in my hearing . Where are those Heroes now those sons of thunder , That would make Lewis vow , and bring him under ? Your wishes now you have , France is the Centre , Like Seamen stout and brave , Boys , freely venture . In a fight fierce and hight , once was I wounded ; We received showers of shot being surrounded ; Yet I again will go , and scorn to hide me , I'll face the daring foe , what ever betide me . He that has been in fight , fears not another , He leaves with much delight Father and Mother , To embrace those true Joys , which men admire , We can be merry Boys , in Smoke and Fire . If we the Conquest gain , that brings promotion , If we by chance are slave , then the wide Ocean , Shall be our watery Tomb near Neptunes Palace . This Boys , shall be our Doom in spite of Malice . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Boatswains Call ; OR , The Courageous Mariners Invitation to all his Brother Sailors , to forsake Friends and Relations , for to fight in the defence of their King and Country . To the Tune of , Ring of Gold . Licencsed according to Order . S Tout Seamen come away , never be daunted : For if at home you stay , then it is granted The Fleet can never be Manned for the Ocean , To Fight the Enemy , and gain Promotion . Lewis that Christian - TURK makes preparation ; His Engines are at work in Consultation [ , ] Thinking to Ruin quite all Christian Princes ; But we their wrongs will right , at Life's expenses . The Mighty force of France , we never valve For when we once advance , we will not dally : But on the Ocean wide , ( through blessed permission ) We'll soon subdue their Pride , and grand Ambition . Therefore with Courage bold , Boys , let us venture , Like noble hearts of Gold , now freely enter Your names on Board the Fleet , all Friends forsaking , That we may soon Complete this under taking . Is it not that the Land , might be defended , By a Victorious hand , though France intended To lay a heavy Yoke , on a free Nation ; Boys let a fatal stroke , prove their vexation . But yet my thinks I hear some Cowards crying , The Press they dread and fear , as much as dying : And skulk like frighted Slaves , here in distraction [ , ] To hide in Dens and Caves , from Warlike Actium . Yet some declare they fight , but a dear Mother , Who counts him her delight , above all other ; She loves him as her Life , parting would grieve her , Another has a Wife , he's loath to leave her . Thus Cowards they can find excuses many , To tarry here behind , yet there's not any Right Valiant Noble Soul heeds a Relation , He'll fight against Control for this his Nation . Has not Men wished and cried , a war with France , Boys , That on the Ocean wide we may advance , Boys , To storm and shake their throne , no danger fearing ; This has been still their Tone , oft in my hearing . Where are those Heroes now those sons of thunder , That would make Lewis vow , and bring him under ? Your wishes now you have , France is the Centre , Like Seamen stout and brave , Boys , freely venture . In a fight fierce and hight , once was I wounded ; We received showers of shot being surrounded ; Yet I again will go , and scorn to hide me , I'll face the daring foe , what ever betide me . He that has been in fight , fears not another , He leaves with much delight Father and Mother , To embrace those true Joys , which men admire , We can be merry Boys , in Smoke and Fire . If we the Conquest gain , that brings promotion , If we by chance are slave , then the wide Ocean , Shall be our watery Tomb near Neptunes Palace . This Boys , shall be our Doom in spite of Malice . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 