The Famous Fight at M alago , Or , The E nglishmen's Victory over the Spaniards . Relating how Five English Frigates : Viz. The Henry , the Ruby , the Antelope the Greyhound , and the Bryan , burned all the Spanish Ships in their Harbour at Ma - lago : battered down their Churches , and their Houses about their Ears , killed abundance of their men , and obtained and Honourable Victory . Where ever English Seamen goes , They are a Terror to their Foes . To the Tune of , Five Sail of Frigates bound for Malago . With Allowance . C Ome all you brave Sailors , that sails on the Main , I'll tell you of a fight that was lately in Spain ; And of five Sail of Frigates bound to Malago , For to fight the proud Spaniard our order was so . There was the Henry and Ruby and the Antelope also , The Greyhound , and the Bryan , for Fireships must go ; But so bravely we weighed , and played our parts , That we made the proud Spaniards to quake in their hearts . TO hen we came to and Anchor so nigh to the Mould , Methinks you proud English do grow very bold : But we came to and Anchor so near to the Town , That some of their Churches we soon battered down . They hung out their Flag of Truce , for to know our intent , And they sent out their Longboat , to know what we meant : But our Captain he answered them bravely , it was so , For to burn all your shipping before we do go . For to burn all our shipping you must us excuse , It's not five Sail of Frigates shall make us to muse : But we burned all their Shipping , and their Galleys also , And we left in the City full many a Widow . Come then says our Captain , let's fire at the Church , And down came their Belfrey , which grieved them much : And down came the Steeple which stands so high ; Which made the proud Spaniards to the Nunnery fly . So great a confusion we made made in the Town , That their lofty Buildings came tumbling down : Their Wives and their Children for help they did cry , But none could relieve them , though danger was nigh . The Flames and the Smoke , so increased their woe , That they knew not whither to run nor to go ; Some to shun the Fire , leapt into the Flood , And there they did perish in Water and Mudd . Our Guns we kept firing , still shooting amain , While many a proud Spaniard was on the place slave : The rest being amazed , for succour did cry , But all was in vain , they had no where to fly . At length being forced , they thought it most fit , Unto the brave English-men for to submit : And so a conclusion at last we did make , Upon such conditions as was fit to take . The Spanish Armado , did England no harm , 'Twas but a bravado to give us alarm ; But with our five Frigates , we did them bombast , And made them of English [ - ] men's valour to taste . When this Noble Victory we did obtain , . Then home we returned to England again . Where we were received with welcomes of joy , Because with five Frigates we did them destroy . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Famous Fight at M alago , Or , The E nglishmen's Victory over the Spaniards . Relating how Five English Frigates : Viz. The Henry , the Ruby , the Antelope the Greyhound , and the Bryan , burned all the Spanish Ships in their Harbour at Ma - lago : battered down their Churches , and their Houses about their Ears , killed abundance of their men , and obtained and Honourable Victory . Where ever English Seamen goes , They are a Terror to their Foes . To the Tune of , Five Sail of Frigates bound for Malago . With Allowance . C Ome all you brave Sailors , that sails on the Main , I'll tell you of a fight that was lately in Spain ; And of five Sail of Frigates bound to Malago , For to fight the proud Spaniard our order was so . There was the Henry and Ruby and the Antelope also , The Greyhound , and the Bryan , for Fireships must go ; But so bravely we weighed , and played our parts , That we made the proud Spaniards to quake in their hearts . TO hen we came to and Anchor so nigh to the Mould , Methinks you proud English do grow very bold : But we came to and Anchor so near to the Town , That some of their Churches we soon battered down . They hung out their Flag of Truce , for to know our intent , And they sent out their Longboat , to know what we meant : But our Captain he answered them bravely , it was so , For to burn all your shipping before we do go . For to burn all our shipping you must us excuse , It's not five Sail of Frigates shall make us to muse : But we burned all their Shipping , and their Galleys also , And we left in the City full many a Widow . Come then says our Captain , let's fire at the Church , And down came their Belfrey , which grieved them much : And down came the Steeple which stands so high ; Which made the proud Spaniards to the Nunnery fly . So great a confusion we made made in the Town , That their lofty Buildings came tumbling down : Their Wives and their Children for help they did cry , But none could relieve them , though danger was nigh . The Flames and the Smoke , so increased their woe , That they knew not whither to run nor to go ; Some to shun the Fire , leapt into the Flood , And there they did perish in Water and Mudd . Our Guns we kept firing , still shooting amain , While many a proud Spaniard was on the place slave : The rest being amazed , for succour did cry , But all was in vain , they had no where to fly . At length being forced , they thought it most fit , Unto the brave English-men for to submit : And so a conclusion at last we did make , Upon such conditions as was fit to take . The Spanish Armado , did England no harm , 'Twas but a bravado to give us alarm ; But with our five Frigates , we did them bombast , And made them of English [ - ] men's valour to taste . When this Noble Victory we did obtain , . Then home we returned to England again . Where we were received with welcomes of joy , Because with five Frigates we did them destroy . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 