THE Loyal Soldiers Courtship ; OR , Constant PEGGY's Kind Answer . BEING Her Resolution to Forsake her Friends , and venture to the Wars with her Beloved Soldier . To a Pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . U Pon the Banks of Ireland , when first we Landed there , So cold was then our Lodging , yet harder was our Fare ; For want of Meat and Drink , Sir , our Men did pine and die , And I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . O come away , sweet Peggy , and hear what I shall say , We must for famous England , there to receive our Pay : Now for thy constant kindness , I will love thee till I die , And I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . I'll take thee cross the Ocean , unto my native Land , And study thy Promotion , then don't disputing stand ; These Arms shall still Embrace thee , in Love and Constancy ; And I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . Sweet Soldier , since you Wooed me , my Friends have made a noise , Then do not thus delude me , with such fine Golden Joys , For fear of Parents anger , your Suit I must deny , Although you will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . What need you fear your Father or Mother's angry Frowns ? My Hand and Sword shall Guard you through Cities , Courts and towns : For thee , my dearest Jewel ; I'll Fight until I die ; And Love , I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . But Soldier , should you leave me , when you another find , This would perplex and grieve me , should you prove so unkind : Therefore I'm loath to v [ e ] nter , your Suit I must deny ; Although you do no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . I cannot be so Cruel , while I remain alive , If I am false , sweet Jewel , then never let me thrive : I never will deceive thee , but love thee till I die ; Yet now I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . Soldier , as thou art Loyal , what ever become of me , I'll make no more denial , but through the World with thee : My Fortune I will venture , whither I live or die , The Field of Mars I'll enter , where we in Camp will lie . I'll leave my found Relations , my Parents dear also , And unto Foreign Nations , along with thee I'll go : A Musquet on my Shoulder , I'll bear right valiantly ; Thus as a fellow Soldier , with thee I'll live and die . Let's go on Board together , to Blow the Ocean Main , I fear no Wind nor Weather , Love , with the Warlike Train , In France or famous Flanders , where ever thy lot shall be , Under those brave Commanders , I'll live and die with thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Loyal Soldiers Courtship ; OR , Constant PEGGY's Kind Answer . BEING Her Resolution to Forsake her Friends , and venture to the Wars with her Beloved Soldier . To a Pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . U Pon the Banks of Ireland , when first we Landed there , So cold was then our Lodging , yet harder was our Fare ; For want of Meat and Drink , Sir , our Men did pine and die , And I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . O come away , sweet Peggy , and hear what I shall say , We must for famous England , there to receive our Pay : Now for thy constant kindness , I will love thee till I die , And I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . I'll take thee cross the Ocean , unto my native Land , And study thy Promotion , then don't disputing stand ; These Arms shall still Embrace thee , in Love and Constancy ; And I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . Sweet Soldier , since you Wooed me , my Friends have made a noise , Then do not thus delude me , with such fine Golden Joys , For fear of Parents anger , your Suit I must deny , Although you will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . What need you fear your Father or Mother's angry Frowns ? My Hand and Sword shall Guard you through Cities , Courts and towns : For thee , my dearest Jewel ; I'll Fight until I die ; And Love , I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . But Soldier , should you leave me , when you another find , This would perplex and grieve me , should you prove so unkind : Therefore I'm loath to v [ e ] nter , your Suit I must deny ; Although you do no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . I cannot be so Cruel , while I remain alive , If I am false , sweet Jewel , then never let me thrive : I never will deceive thee , but love thee till I die ; Yet now I will no more go into Dundaugh Camp to lie . Soldier , as thou art Loyal , what ever become of me , I'll make no more denial , but through the World with thee : My Fortune I will venture , whither I live or die , The Field of Mars I'll enter , where we in Camp will lie . I'll leave my found Relations , my Parents dear also , And unto Foreign Nations , along with thee I'll go : A Musquet on my Shoulder , I'll bear right valiantly ; Thus as a fellow Soldier , with thee I'll live and die . Let's go on Board together , to Blow the Ocean Main , I fear no Wind nor Weather , Love , with the Warlike Train , In France or famous Flanders , where ever thy lot shall be , Under those brave Commanders , I'll live and die with thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 