THE Prince of Orange's Triumph , Or , The Downfall of the Distressed JESUITS . To the Tune of , COURAGIO . N Owe Orange is on British shore , come from his long Voyage Oh ; Now Orange is on Brittains shore , come from his long Voyage Oh ; We now shall have no Masses more , But will pull down their Scarlet Whore , Couragio , Couragio , Couragio . Now all her Brats we understand , does weep at this Voyage Oh , And forced are to quit the Land , For fear of a strong Hempen Band , Couragio , etc While here they Sung their Antic Song , before the brave Voyage Oh , The best of Subject's they did wrong , But now they run away ding dung , Couragio , etc The London Lads was much concerned at Friars in this Axe Oh , Therefore their Wooden Gods they burned And trinkets into Ashes turned , Couragio , etc They never stood to count their Cost , they being in a Rage Oh , Their Beads and Crucifix they lost , Was ever Jesuits so Crossed , Couragio , etc Their hope's were turned to slavish fears , at this August Voyage Oh , Some sighed and stewed in brinish TO [ ea ] rs . While others sneaked & amp ; hung their Ears , Couragio , etc The Prince of Orange Heavens bless ; who came on this Voyage Oh , The Jesuits to dispossess ; God grant him evermore Success , C ouragio , etc When we beheld his Glorious Fleet , sailing on their Voyage Oh , Our whole desire was to meet , The Kingdoms blessings to complete , C ouragio , etc Now Welcome to our English Shore , and now we will engage Oh , To Thump the Babilonish Whore , And kick her Trumpery out of door ; Couragio , etc A short and merry life they led , before this rage Voyage Oh , But now Old Peters he is fled , And some in [ N ] ewgate hide their Head ; Couragio , etc That Valiant Prince who hither came , our Sorrows to assuage Oh , Oh let his Right Renowned Name , Recorded be in Books of Fame , Couragio , etc He undertook a Glorious Cause in this Warlike Voyage Oh To keep us from Rome's Ravenous Paws And to preserve our Lives and Laws , Couragio , etc Now let us all United be , and then I will engage Oh , In little space we soon shall free This Land from Popish Tyranny ; C ouragio , etc We valve not the Frenchman's Frow [ n ] who threatens to engage Oh , We'll Raze [ tO ] he Walls of every Town , And beatrice their lofty Towers down ; Couragio , etc If it should be our happy chance , with Monsieur to Engage Oh , With Forces thither we'll advance , And shake the very Crown of France , Couragio , Couragio , Couragio . F INIS . Printed for J. Back . THE Prince of Orange's Triumph , Or , The Downfall of the Distressed JESUITS . To the Tune of , COURAGIO . N Owe Orange is on British shore , come from his long Voyage Oh ; Now Orange is on Brittains shore , come from his long Voyage Oh ; We now shall have no Masses more , But will pull down their Scarlet Whore , Couragio , Couragio , Couragio . Now all her Brats we understand , does weep at this Voyage Oh , And forced are to quit the Land , For fear of a strong Hempen Band , Couragio , etc While here they Sung their Antic Song , before the brave Voyage Oh , The best of Subject's they did wrong , But now they run away ding dung , Couragio , etc The London Lads was much concerned at Friars in this Axe Oh , Therefore their Wooden Gods they burned And trinkets into Ashes turned , Couragio , etc They never stood to count their Cost , they being in a Rage Oh , Their Beads and Crucifix they lost , Was ever Jesuits so Crossed , Couragio , etc Their hope's were turned to slavish fears , at this August Voyage Oh , Some sighed and stewed in brinish TO [ ea ] rs . While others sneaked & amp ; hung their Ears , Couragio , etc The Prince of Orange Heavens bless ; who came on this Voyage Oh , The Jesuits to dispossess ; God grant him evermore Success , C ouragio , etc When we beheld his Glorious Fleet , sailing on their Voyage Oh , Our whole desire was to meet , The Kingdoms blessings to complete , C ouragio , etc Now Welcome to our English Shore , and now we will engage Oh , To Thump the Babilonish Whore , And kick her Trumpery out of door ; Couragio , etc A short and merry life they led , before this rage Voyage Oh , But now Old Peters he is fled , And some in [ N ] ewgate hide their Head ; Couragio , etc That Valiant Prince who hither came , our Sorrows to assuage Oh , Oh let his Right Renowned Name , Recorded be in Books of Fame , Couragio , etc He undertook a Glorious Cause in this Warlike Voyage Oh To keep us from Rome's Ravenous Paws And to preserve our Lives and Laws , Couragio , etc Now let us all United be , and then I will engage Oh , In little space we soon shall free This Land from Popish Tyranny ; C ouragio , etc We valve not the Frenchman's Frow [ n ] who threatens to engage Oh , We'll Raze [ tO ] he Walls of every Town , And beatrice their lofty Towers down ; Couragio , etc If it should be our happy chance , with Monsieur to Engage Oh , With Forces thither we'll advance , And shake the very Crown of France , Couragio , Couragio , Couragio . F INIS . Printed for J. Back . 