Neptune's Raging Fury . OR , The Gallant Seamans Sufferings . Being a Relation of their perils and dangers , and of the extraordinary hazards they undergo in their Noble adventures : Together with their Undaunted Valour and rare Constancy in all their extremities , And the manner of their Rejoicing on shore , at their return home . To the Tune of , When the Stormy Winds do Blow . Y Ou Gentlemen of England , that lives at home at ease , Full little do you think upon the dangers of the Seas : Give ear unto the Mariners , and they will plainly show , The cares and the fears when the stormy winds do blow . All you that will be Seamen , must bear a valiant heart , For when you come upon the Seas you must not think to start : Nor once to be fainthearted , in Hail , rain or Snow , Nor to shrink , nor to shrink , when the stormy winds do blow . The bitter storms and tempests , poor Seamen must endure , Both day & amp ; night , with many a fright , we seldom rest secure ; Our sleep it is disturbed , with visions strange to know , And with dreams on the streams , when the stormy winds do blow . In Claps of roaring thunder which darkness does enforce , We often find our ships to stray , beyond our wonted course ; Which causeth great distractions , and sinks our hearts fallen low , This in vain to complain , when the stormy winds do blow . S Sometimes in Neptunes bosom , our ships is tossed in waves , And every man expecting the Sea to be their graves : Then up a loft she mounts , and down again so low : It's with waves Oh with waves , when the stormy winds do blow . Then down again we fallen to prayer : with all our might and thought , When refuge all does fail us , it's that must bear us out , To God we call for succour , for he it is we know , That must aid us , and save us , when the stormy winds do blow . The Lawyer and the Usurer , that sits in gown of Fur , In Closets warm can take no harm , abroad they need not stir , When Winter fierce with cold does pierce , and beats with Hail and Snow , We are sure to endure , when the stormy winds do blow . We bring home costly merchandise , and Jewels of great price , To serve our English gallahtry , with many a rare device : To please the English gallatnry , our pains we freely show , For we toil and we moil , when the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to the Indies , to fetch home Spices rare , Sometime gain to France and Spain , for wines beyond compare ; While gallants are carousing , in Taverns on a row , Then we sweep over the deep , when the stormy winds do blow . When tempests are blown over , and greatest fears are past , I weather fair , and temperate air , we straight lie down to rest : But when the Billows tumble , and waves do furious grow , Then we rouse , up we rouse , when the stormy winds do blow : If Enemies oppose us , when England is at wars With any Foreign Nations , we fear not wounds and scars ; Our roaring Guns shall teach'em our valour for to know , While they reel in the Keel , when the stormy winds do blow . We are no cowardly shrinkers , but English-men true bred , We'll play our parts like valiant hearts and never fly for dread ; We'll ply our business nimbly , where ever we come or go , With our mates to the Straights , when the stormy winds do blow . Then courage all brave Mariners , and never be dismayed , While we have bold adventures we never shall want a trade ; Our Merchant's will employ us , to fetch them wealth I know , Then be bold , work for Gold , when the stormy winds do blow . When we return in safety , with wages for our pains , The Tapster and the Vintner will help to share our gains , We'll call for Liquour roundly , and pay before we go , Then we'll roar on the shore , when the Stormy winds do blow . Printed for J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Neptune's Raging Fury . OR , The Gallant Seamans Sufferings . Being a Relation of their perils and dangers , and of the extraordinary hazards they undergo in their Noble adventures : Together with their Undaunted Valour and rare Constancy in all their extremities , And the manner of their Rejoicing on shore , at their return home . To the Tune of , When the Stormy Winds do Blow . Y Ou Gentlemen of England , that lives at home at ease , Full little do you think upon the dangers of the Seas : Give ear unto the Mariners , and they will plainly show , The cares and the fears when the stormy winds do blow . All you that will be Seamen , must bear a valiant heart , For when you come upon the Seas you must not think to start : Nor once to be fainthearted , in Hail , rain or Snow , Nor to shrink , nor to shrink , when the stormy winds do blow . The bitter storms and tempests , poor Seamen must endure , Both day & amp ; night , with many a fright , we seldom rest secure ; Our sleep it is disturbed , with visions strange to know , And with dreams on the streams , when the stormy winds do blow . In Claps of roaring thunder which darkness does enforce , We often find our ships to stray , beyond our wonted course ; Which causeth great distractions , and sinks our hearts fallen low , This in vain to complain , when the stormy winds do blow . S Sometimes in Neptunes bosom , our ships is tossed in waves , And every man expecting the Sea to be their graves : Then up a loft she mounts , and down again so low : It's with waves Oh with waves , when the stormy winds do blow . Then down again we fallen to prayer : with all our might and thought , When refuge all does fail us , it's that must bear us out , To God we call for succour , for he it is we know , That must aid us , and save us , when the stormy winds do blow . The Lawyer and the Usurer , that sits in gown of Fur , In Closets warm can take no harm , abroad they need not stir , When Winter fierce with cold does pierce , and beats with Hail and Snow , We are sure to endure , when the stormy winds do blow . We bring home costly merchandise , and Jewels of great price , To serve our English gallahtry , with many a rare device : To please the English gallatnry , our pains we freely show , For we toil and we moil , when the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to the Indies , to fetch home Spices rare , Sometime gain to France and Spain , for wines beyond compare ; While gallants are carousing , in Taverns on a row , Then we sweep over the deep , when the stormy winds do blow . When tempests are blown over , and greatest fears are past , I weather fair , and temperate air , we straight lie down to rest : But when the Billows tumble , and waves do furious grow , Then we rouse , up we rouse , when the stormy winds do blow : If Enemies oppose us , when England is at wars With any Foreign Nations , we fear not wounds and scars ; Our roaring Guns shall teach'em our valour for to know , While they reel in the Keel , when the stormy winds do blow . We are no cowardly shrinkers , but English-men true bred , We'll play our parts like valiant hearts and never fly for dread ; We'll ply our business nimbly , where ever we come or go , With our mates to the Straights , when the stormy winds do blow . Then courage all brave Mariners , and never be dismayed , While we have bold adventures we never shall want a trade ; Our Merchant's will employ us , to fetch them wealth I know , Then be bold , work for Gold , when the stormy winds do blow . When we return in safety , with wages for our pains , The Tapster and the Vintner will help to share our gains , We'll call for Liquour roundly , and pay before we go , Then we'll roar on the shore , when the Stormy winds do blow . Printed for J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 