The Courageous SEAMAN ; OR , His Farewell to his Sweetheart , resolving to Fight in the Defence of his King and Country . To the Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . A Dieu , my dear Partner in all my past joys , Adieu to Loves pleasures and amorous toys ; More noble Encounters I now must pursue , At Sea a good Subject and Mariner show : The Frenchmen do boast of their Fleet & amp ; their Guns , Their great Men of War of nine hundered Tons ; Then 'twere a great shame for stout Seamen to sleep While Monsieur is Riding the Ocean so deep . O break not my heart , then replied the fair Maid , The Sea has such dangers as makes me afraid I never shall see my dear Lover again , Or hear any tidings , but that you are slave ; Amongst Bullets and Fire there's few that escapes , And Death waits upon you in various shapes ; Then prithee , my Dearest , don't from me depart , For thou art the only true joy of my heart . Away with vain fears , then the Mariner cried , True valour must always in danger be tried ; I fear neither Bullets , nor Fire , nor Sword , But heartily wish I were with them on board : A Bowl of good Punch shall brave Courage inspire , While on the proud Frenchmen our Broadsides we fire , Our Trumpets and Fifes they shall warble and found , And thundering loud Cannons their Echo's rebound . O talk not of Cannons , my Dearest , said she , I tremble to think how the Bullets will flee , And how your brave limbs may in pieces be torn , I then shall bewail me that ever I was born : My Life and my Limbs I will freely expose , And Manfully fight against King Williams foes , Then think not to melt me with sighs and with tears , Or soften my heart with your Womanish fears : Methinks I do hear our all-conquering Fleet , With joy under Sail , the French Navy to meet , They hallow and shout , and do merrily sing , And in jolly Punch drink a Health to the King : Then how can I lazily tarry behind ? When honour invites with a prosperous wind : She yielded and fairly she gave her consent , As if her tongue spoke what her heart never meant . Since dying men's groans and the Clamours of War To thy valiant heart more delectable are , Then soft and more charming engagements of Love , And amorous pleasure we taste in the Grove : Go , go , cruel Man , and may Heaven defend Your person from dangers , that threaten your end : He kissed and embraced her a thousand times over , And that he'd be constant for ever he swore . No distance nor absence can altar my mind , By Sea and by Land to my love I'll be kind : In the Heat of the Battle I'll think of my Dear , And that very thought my tired Spirits will cheer : She answered with loving expressions again , To thee I'll be faithful , when thou'rt on the Main ; By day when awake and by Night when asleep , I'll think , and shall Dream of my Love on the deep . Thus Billing and Kissing , and all the soft things , As parting endearments and breaking of Rings : Employed the two Lovers until the day came That he must take leave of the sorrowful Dame : She wished him good Fortune and happy success , And prayed the kind Heavens her Seaman to bless ; And safe to her Arms her beloved restore , That she might embrace and enjoy him once more . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , at the Sign of the Angel in Little-Brittain . The Courageous SEAMAN ; OR , His Farewell to his Sweetheart , resolving to Fight in the Defence of his King and Country . To the Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . A Dieu , my dear Partner in all my past joys , Adieu to Loves pleasures and amorous toys ; More noble Encounters I now must pursue , At Sea a good Subject and Mariner show : The Frenchmen do boast of their Fleet & amp ; their Guns , Their great Men of War of nine hundered Tons ; Then 'twere a great shame for stout Seamen to sleep While Monsieur is Riding the Ocean so deep . O break not my heart , then replied the fair Maid , The Sea has such dangers as makes me afraid I never shall see my dear Lover again , Or hear any tidings , but that you are slave ; Amongst Bullets and Fire there's few that escapes , And Death waits upon you in various shapes ; Then prithee , my Dearest , don't from me depart , For thou art the only true joy of my heart . Away with vain fears , then the Mariner cried , True valour must always in danger be tried ; I fear neither Bullets , nor Fire , nor Sword , But heartily wish I were with them on board : A Bowl of good Punch shall brave Courage inspire , While on the proud Frenchmen our Broadsides we fire , Our Trumpets and Fifes they shall warble and found , And thundering loud Cannons their Echo's rebound . O talk not of Cannons , my Dearest , said she , I tremble to think how the Bullets will flee , And how your brave limbs may in pieces be torn , I then shall bewail me that ever I was born : My Life and my Limbs I will freely expose , And Manfully fight against King Williams foes , Then think not to melt me with sighs and with tears , Or soften my heart with your Womanish fears : Methinks I do hear our all-conquering Fleet , With joy under Sail , the French Navy to meet , They hallow and shout , and do merrily sing , And in jolly Punch drink a Health to the King : Then how can I lazily tarry behind ? When honour invites with a prosperous wind : She yielded and fairly she gave her consent , As if her tongue spoke what her heart never meant . Since dying men's groans and the Clamours of War To thy valiant heart more delectable are , Then soft and more charming engagements of Love , And amorous pleasure we taste in the Grove : Go , go , cruel Man , and may Heaven defend Your person from dangers , that threaten your end : He kissed and embraced her a thousand times over , And that he'd be constant for ever he swore . No distance nor absence can altar my mind , By Sea and by Land to my love I'll be kind : In the Heat of the Battle I'll think of my Dear , And that very thought my tired Spirits will cheer : She answered with loving expressions again , To thee I'll be faithful , when thou'rt on the Main ; By day when awake and by Night when asleep , I'll think , and shall Dream of my Love on the deep . Thus Billing and Kissing , and all the soft things , As parting endearments and breaking of Rings : Employed the two Lovers until the day came That he must take leave of the sorrowful Dame : She wished him good Fortune and happy success , And prayed the kind Heavens her Seaman to bless ; And safe to her Arms her beloved restore , That she might embrace and enjoy him once more . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , at the Sign of the Angel in Little-Brittain . 