THE Undaunted SEAMAN ; Who resolved to Fight for his King and Country : TOGETHER WITH His Love's Sorrowful Lamentation at their Departure . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove . Licenced according to Order . M Y Love I come to take my leave , Yet prithee do not sighs and grieve ; On the wide Ocean I will fight , For to maintain the Nation's Right : Under Noble Chief Commanders , I resolve to take my Chance ; On Board I'll enter , Life I'll venture , To subdue the Pride of France . My Dear , said she , be not unkind , I shall no Peace nor Comfort find , My very Heart will break for thee , If thus we must divided be : While thou art with Foes surrounded , Where the loud-mouthed Cannons roar ; This Warlike Actium breeds Distraction , I shall never see thee more . Let no such fear attend my Dear , I hope to be as safe as here , For King and Country's good I'll stand , And vow to fight with Heart and Hand : None but Cowards fear to venture , Freely will I take my chance ; On Board I'll enter , Life I'll venture , To subdue the Pride of France . The Youthful Damsel then did cry , I'll part with Gold and Silver too , Another person to Employ , that may be better spared than you : Never shall I be contented , While you leave your Native Shore ; This warlike Actium breeds Distraction , I shall never see thee more . My Dear all Hazards will I run , My thinks the Work cannot be done , Except I do in Person go , To Face that Perjured Potent Foe : We have Warlike Sons of Thunder , Which will Valiantly Advance To the wide Ocean , for Promotion , And to check the Pride of France . My dear , the Royal English Fleet , With the Dutch Navy , will complete The Work , which fairly is begun , We fear not but Monsieur will run ; For we'll drive the Rogues before us , Teach them such and English Dance , While they retire , still we'll fire , Check the growing Pride of France . With Sighs and Tears this Damsel said , If you resolve to go to Sea , In Sailors Robes I'll be arrayed , and freely go along with thee : Life and Fortune I will Venture , Rather than to stay on Shore ; Grief will oppress me , and possess me , That I never shall see thee more . Said he , My Dearest stay on Land , such idle Fancies never pursue , Thy soft and tender milkwhite Hand , Seamen's labour cannot do : Here I leave both Gold and treasure , To maintain my Dear on Shore ; But still She crying and replying , I shall never see thee more . Thy Gold's not more than Dross to me , alas ! my Heart is sunk full low , The want of thy sweet Company , will surely prove my Overthrow : Therefore dearest do not leave me Here tormented , on the Shore ; Let us not sever , love for ever , Lest I never shall see thee more . Though bitterly she did Complain , Her Sighs and Tears were all in vain , He would not suffer her to go , So many Cares and Griefs to know : But with sweet Salutes they parted , She was left with Tears on Shore ; Here often crying and replying , I shall never see him more . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . THE Undaunted SEAMAN ; Who resolved to Fight for his King and Country : TOGETHER WITH His Love's Sorrowful Lamentation at their Departure . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove . Licenced according to Order . M Y Love I come to take my leave , Yet prithee do not sighs and grieve ; On the wide Ocean I will fight , For to maintain the Nation's Right : Under Noble Chief Commanders , I resolve to take my Chance ; On Board I'll enter , Life I'll venture , To subdue the Pride of France . My Dear , said she , be not unkind , I shall no Peace nor Comfort find , My very Heart will break for thee , If thus we must divided be : While thou art with Foes surrounded , Where the loud-mouthed Cannons roar ; This Warlike Actium breeds Distraction , I shall never see thee more . Let no such fear attend my Dear , I hope to be as safe as here , For King and Country's good I'll stand , And vow to fight with Heart and Hand : None but Cowards fear to venture , Freely will I take my chance ; On Board I'll enter , Life I'll venture , To subdue the Pride of France . The Youthful Damsel then did cry , I'll part with Gold and Silver too , Another person to Employ , that may be better spared than you : Never shall I be contented , While you leave your Native Shore ; This warlike Actium breeds Distraction , I shall never see thee more . My Dear all Hazards will I run , My thinks the Work cannot be done , Except I do in Person go , To Face that Perjured Potent Foe : We have Warlike Sons of Thunder , Which will Valiantly Advance To the wide Ocean , for Promotion , And to check the Pride of France . My dear , the Royal English Fleet , With the Dutch Navy , will complete The Work , which fairly is begun , We fear not but Monsieur will run ; For we'll drive the Rogues before us , Teach them such and English Dance , While they retire , still we'll fire , Check the growing Pride of France . With Sighs and Tears this Damsel said , If you resolve to go to Sea , In Sailors Robes I'll be arrayed , and freely go along with thee : Life and Fortune I will Venture , Rather than to stay on Shore ; Grief will oppress me , and possess me , That I never shall see thee more . Said he , My Dearest stay on Land , such idle Fancies never pursue , Thy soft and tender milkwhite Hand , Seamen's labour cannot do : Here I leave both Gold and treasure , To maintain my Dear on Shore ; But still She crying and replying , I shall never see thee more . Thy Gold's not more than Dross to me , alas ! my Heart is sunk full low , The want of thy sweet Company , will surely prove my Overthrow : Therefore dearest do not leave me Here tormented , on the Shore ; Let us not sever , love for ever , Lest I never shall see thee more . Though bitterly she did Complain , Her Sighs and Tears were all in vain , He would not suffer her to go , So many Cares and Griefs to know : But with sweet Salutes they parted , She was left with Tears on Shore ; Here often crying and replying , I shall never see him more . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . 