The Seamans Frolic : OR , A Cooler for the Captain . You Seamen bold that blow the Ocean Main To read this Song do not at all disdain : But rather learn thereby how to avoid , The whores increase which many hath destroyed . To a New Tune ; Or , Come no more there , etc C Aptain Robert is gone to Sea and I lov [ ' ] worser him well , and I loved him well , With all his merry , merry , company ther's them can sing and say , Captain Robert is gone to Sea The girls for his return does pray : And shall we never , never , while we live come no more there , We'll come no more there brave boys we'll come no more there : And we shall never , never , while we live come no more there . Our Captain is a Jovial blade and I loved him well , etc And well he loves a pretty Maid ther's them , etc . Our Captain is a Jovial blade And many a Gun hath under laid , And shall etc . I wish I was on the Starboard side and I loved him , etc . Withal my merry men in their pride ther's them , etc . I wish I were on the Starboard side With Cable and Anchor for to ride , And shall , etc . To the top , to the top , my little Ship boy , and I lov ' him , etc And see who you can there descry ther's them , etc To the top , to the top , my little Ship boy . And see what Ships comes Sailing by And shall , etc . W E pitched our Anchor in Plymouth found and I loved him well , and I loved him well . And there we wasted many a pound ther's them can sing and say , We pitched our Anchor in Plymouth found And spent all our money to one half Crown And shall we never , never , while we live come no more there , We'll come no more there brave boys we [ ' ] l come no more there : And we shall never , never while we live , come no more there . And with that money I bought a Cony and I lov [ ' ] worser her , etc . As good as ever was used by any ther's them , etc And with that money I bought a Cony With sauce more sweet then any honey And shall , etc . Our Captain did a small pinnace board and he , etc . And left his own ship in the Road ther's them , etc . Our Captain did a small pinnace board While we his merry men Sung and roared And shall , etc . She did abide him many a shot and he , etc . Before the upper hand he god and some can , etc . She did abide him many shot But under deck she proved too hight And shall , etc . It proved to him sad mishap and he , etc . He thinking for to stop the gap ther's them , etc . It proved to him a sad mishap For by report he god a clap , And shall , etc . Our Captain he hath god a read face , and I loved , etc . And now is in a pitiful case ther's them , etc . Our Captain he hath god a read face He does belong to the Whores increa [ se ] And shall , etc . Therefore brave Seamen all beware and I loved , etc . Before you venture have a care ther's them , etc . Therefore brave Seamen all beware How that you meddle with such ware , And shall , etc . When as you do desire to range and I loved her well and I loved her well And ware , for ware , for to exchange ther's them can sing and say , When as as you do desire to range Cast Anchor in no harbour strange , For fear you never , never , while you live come no more there , We'll come no more there brave boys we'll come no more there , And we shall never , never , while we live come no more there . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P assenger . The Seamans Frolic : OR , A Cooler for the Captain . You Seamen bold that blow the Ocean Main To read this Song do not at all disdain : But rather learn thereby how to avoid , The whores increase which many hath destroyed . To a New Tune ; Or , Come no more there , etc C Aptain Robert is gone to Sea and I lov [ ' ] worser him well , and I loved him well , With all his merry , merry , company ther's them can sing and say , Captain Robert is gone to Sea The girls for his return does pray : And shall we never , never , while we live come no more there , We'll come no more there brave boys we'll come no more there : And we shall never , never , while we live come no more there . Our Captain is a Jovial blade and I loved him well , etc And well he loves a pretty Maid ther's them , etc . Our Captain is a Jovial blade And many a Gun hath under laid , And shall etc . I wish I was on the Starboard side and I loved him , etc . Withal my merry men in their pride ther's them , etc . I wish I were on the Starboard side With Cable and Anchor for to ride , And shall , etc . To the top , to the top , my little Ship boy , and I lov ' him , etc And see who you can there descry ther's them , etc To the top , to the top , my little Ship boy . And see what Ships comes Sailing by And shall , etc . W E pitched our Anchor in Plymouth found and I loved him well , and I loved him well . And there we wasted many a pound ther's them can sing and say , We pitched our Anchor in Plymouth found And spent all our money to one half Crown And shall we never , never , while we live come no more there , We'll come no more there brave boys we [ ' ] l come no more there : And we shall never , never while we live , come no more there . And with that money I bought a Cony and I lov [ ' ] worser her , etc . As good as ever was used by any ther's them , etc And with that money I bought a Cony With sauce more sweet then any honey And shall , etc . Our Captain did a small pinnace board and he , etc . And left his own ship in the Road ther's them , etc . Our Captain did a small pinnace board While we his merry men Sung and roared And shall , etc . She did abide him many a shot and he , etc . Before the upper hand he god and some can , etc . She did abide him many shot But under deck she proved too hight And shall , etc . It proved to him sad mishap and he , etc . He thinking for to stop the gap ther's them , etc . It proved to him a sad mishap For by report he god a clap , And shall , etc . Our Captain he hath god a read face , and I loved , etc . And now is in a pitiful case ther's them , etc . Our Captain he hath god a read face He does belong to the Whores increa [ se ] And shall , etc . Therefore brave Seamen all beware and I loved , etc . Before you venture have a care ther's them , etc . Therefore brave Seamen all beware How that you meddle with such ware , And shall , etc . When as you do desire to range and I loved her well and I loved her well And ware , for ware , for to exchange ther's them can sing and say , When as as you do desire to range Cast Anchor in no harbour strange , For fear you never , never , while you live come no more there , We'll come no more there brave boys we'll come no more there , And we shall never , never , while we live come no more there . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P assenger . 