The Young Seaman's Misfortune ; OR , THE The F alse-hearted Lass of Lymus . To the Tune of The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . Y OU loyal Lovers far and near , that live and reign in Cupid is Court , I'ld have you freely lend and Ear , while I my Sorrows do report : She that I loved has left me over , I'll never trust a Woman more . In her I placed my chief Delight , and was her Captive night and day ; For why ? her charming Beauty bright had clearly stole my Heart away : But she will not my Joys restore , I'll never , etc On Board of Ship I chanced to go , to serve our good and gracious King ; Now when she found it must be so , she did her Hands in Sorrow ring , Yet Wedded when I left the Shore , I'll never trust a Woman more . My dearest Love , she often cried forbear to sail the Ocean Sea ; If Fortune shall us now divide , alas ! what will become of me ? This she repeated ten times over , yet I'll never , etc A thousand solemn Vows I made , and she returned the like again , That not one should our Hearts invade , but both in loyal Love remain ; Yet she another had in store , I'll never , etc I was obliged to leave the Land , and ready to go hoist up Sail , At which Tears in her Eyes did stand , and bitterly she did bewail ; Yet she another had in store , I'll never , etc I gave her then a Ring of Gold , to keep in Token of True Love , And said , My dearest Dear behold ! I evermore will Loyal prove ; She Married when I left the Shore , I'll never , etc Five Months I ploughed the Ocean Main , with Courage void of dread and fear , At length with Joy returned again , to the Embraces of my Dear , But she another had in store , I'll never , etc Constancy does torture me , and makes my Sorrows most sever [ e ] Like a keen Dart it pierced my Heart , for why I did the Tidings hear , As soon as ever I came on Shore ; I'll never , etc Now must I wander in Despair , I find it is the Fates Decree ; My Grief is more than I can bear , I can love none alive [ b ] ut she : Farewell , farewell , my Native shore , I'll never trust a Woman more . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Young Seaman's Misfortune ; OR , THE The F alse-hearted Lass of Lymus . To the Tune of The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . Y OU loyal Lovers far and near , that live and reign in Cupid is Court , I'ld have you freely lend and Ear , while I my Sorrows do report : She that I loved has left me over , I'll never trust a Woman more . In her I placed my chief Delight , and was her Captive night and day ; For why ? her charming Beauty bright had clearly stole my Heart away : But she will not my Joys restore , I'll never , etc On Board of Ship I chanced to go , to serve our good and gracious King ; Now when she found it must be so , she did her Hands in Sorrow ring , Yet Wedded when I left the Shore , I'll never trust a Woman more . My dearest Love , she often cried forbear to sail the Ocean Sea ; If Fortune shall us now divide , alas ! what will become of me ? This she repeated ten times over , yet I'll never , etc A thousand solemn Vows I made , and she returned the like again , That not one should our Hearts invade , but both in loyal Love remain ; Yet she another had in store , I'll never , etc I was obliged to leave the Land , and ready to go hoist up Sail , At which Tears in her Eyes did stand , and bitterly she did bewail ; Yet she another had in store , I'll never , etc I gave her then a Ring of Gold , to keep in Token of True Love , And said , My dearest Dear behold ! I evermore will Loyal prove ; She Married when I left the Shore , I'll never , etc Five Months I ploughed the Ocean Main , with Courage void of dread and fear , At length with Joy returned again , to the Embraces of my Dear , But she another had in store , I'll never , etc Constancy does torture me , and makes my Sorrows most sever [ e ] Like a keen Dart it pierced my Heart , for why I did the Tidings hear , As soon as ever I came on Shore ; I'll never , etc Now must I wander in Despair , I find it is the Fates Decree ; My Grief is more than I can bear , I can love none alive [ b ] ut she : Farewell , farewell , my Native shore , I'll never trust a Woman more . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 