The Seamans Deceit . OR , The wanton Wench of WAPPING . Being a pleasant new SONG , Showing how a handsome young Maid was deceived by a perfidious Seaman , and ( under promise of Marriage ) being got with Child , to her great loss , grief , and ruin of her reputation . To the Tune of , TO he Journeyman Shoemaker . Y Ou Maids that live in London town , mark well my lamentation ; I was a Maid a comely brown , as most within the nation : But now a Seaman ( by his art ) hath brought me to such sorrow , That I could wish ( with all my heart ) to die before the morrow He saw me walking in the street , no object vain did move me ; He viewed me a [ l ] l betwixt head , and feet , and instantly did love me [ : ] He followed me along to see where was my habitation ; And humbly begged to speak with me , to my great admiration . Quoth he , a spark of your bright eye hath set me all a burning , And if in love you'll not Supply , i'll end my days in mourning : No Antidote can save my life , or me preserve from dying , For if you will not be my wife , i'll kill my self with crying I said , the flame of youthful love which passion flash o're-casteth : Does seldom ever constant prove , but in a moment Blasteth : A marriage is a thing of weight , and great Consideration ; If once amiss none can it right , then take deliberation . He did reply , my love is such as will take no denial ; And if it were put to the touch , it would endure the trial , Not all the Water of the Sea , nor waves that swells the Ocean , Shall quench or drown my love to thee it's far beyond their Motion . Thus with his vows and flattering tongue , he gained my found affection ; And stole my heart with him along , to keep in his protection . But ( in his converse ) as he came to gaze upon my buty , He kindled was into a flame , and on his knees paid duty , And now my belly swells up high , my sweetheart he hath left me ; Here comfortless to weep and cry , of my good name bereft me . All my Relations call me Whore , and my acquaintance jeer me , But if I were as once before , the Rogue should never come near me . I sink in Seas of endless shame , my grief's beyond expression ; And every one my self does blame , for trusting his profession , As soon's a Seaman comes on shore , he still must be a doing ; He drinks and swears , calls for a whore , or needs must be a wooing . Then Maids and Widows all that be , beware by my disaster , Let every one remember me , and prove a Wife forecaster . Never trust a Seaman for his oaths , his compliments , or Baulen , There's no belief within his clothes , nor truth in a Tarpalin . Printed fot C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms without Aldgate . The Seamans Deceit . OR , The wanton Wench of WAPPING . Being a pleasant new SONG , Showing how a handsome young Maid was deceived by a perfidious Seaman , and ( under promise of Marriage ) being got with Child , to her great loss , grief , and ruin of her reputation . To the Tune of , TO he Journeyman Shoemaker . Y Ou Maids that live in London town , mark well my lamentation ; I was a Maid a comely brown , as most within the nation : But now a Seaman ( by his art ) hath brought me to such sorrow , That I could wish ( with all my heart ) to die before the morrow He saw me walking in the street , no object vain did move me ; He viewed me a [ l ] l betwixt head , and feet , and instantly did love me [ : ] He followed me along to see where was my habitation ; And humbly begged to speak with me , to my great admiration . Quoth he , a spark of your bright eye hath set me all a burning , And if in love you'll not Supply , i'll end my days in mourning : No Antidote can save my life , or me preserve from dying , For if you will not be my wife , i'll kill my self with crying I said , the flame of youthful love which passion flash o're-casteth : Does seldom ever constant prove , but in a moment Blasteth : A marriage is a thing of weight , and great Consideration ; If once amiss none can it right , then take deliberation . He did reply , my love is such as will take no denial ; And if it were put to the touch , it would endure the trial , Not all the Water of the Sea , nor waves that swells the Ocean , Shall quench or drown my love to thee it's far beyond their Motion . Thus with his vows and flattering tongue , he gained my found affection ; And stole my heart with him along , to keep in his protection . But ( in his converse ) as he came to gaze upon my buty , He kindled was into a flame , and on his knees paid duty , And now my belly swells up high , my sweetheart he hath left me ; Here comfortless to weep and cry , of my good name bereft me . All my Relations call me Whore , and my acquaintance jeer me , But if I were as once before , the Rogue should never come near me . I sink in Seas of endless shame , my grief's beyond expression ; And every one my self does blame , for trusting his profession , As soon's a Seaman comes on shore , he still must be a doing ; He drinks and swears , calls for a whore , or needs must be a wooing . Then Maids and Widows all that be , beware by my disaster , Let every one remember me , and prove a Wife forecaster . Never trust a Seaman for his oaths , his compliments , or Baulen , There's no belief within his clothes , nor truth in a Tarpalin . Printed fot C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms without Aldgate . 