The Royal Character : OR , The Mirror of Majesty , A New SONG . ' This Sacred , this is and Illustrous Theam , A bright Reflection of that Radiant Beam ; That Albion does illumen such a Ray , As shirking through black Clouds , restored our Day ; A Glorious Sun that risin [ g ] [ i ] n the East , With warmth revived the North , the South and West . To the pleasant New Tune of , Long live our Great Cesar ; Or , Now , now the Fight's done . L Ong Live our Great Cesar , and long be his Reign , Who Justice and mercy so well does maintain ; Before whose stern anger the Rebels do fly , Yet find him relenting when mercy they cry : He like his Creator does pity their State , And in hope's of amendment reverses their fate . Spares those would un-King him , and favour extends , To the stubbornest Rebel , when humbly he bends : His eyes have compassion in war and in peace , And delights not in blood on the land nor the Seas : But in its mid Volue his thunder he stays , And thinks it enough to be Crowned with fresh bays . The proud he does humble , the humble he spares , As too low for his anger , though not for his cares : A Royal compassion and bounty does Reign , In the breast of our Monarch , who never did design , To look down on the wretched , and yield them relief , To condole their misfortune and banish their grief . He glories in mildness , and studies to be Above Romes first Cesar in his Clemency : The fierce banded parts could never remove , From those that are Loyal his favour and Love : He weathered the tempest with such a brave mind , That he rightly is stiled the supreme of Mankind . The second part , to the same Tune . Majesty ever triumphed on his brow , And in him the Genius of all Nations bow : High Arbitrer ever of peace and of war , Whom Christians admire , and Heathens adore : From India to Fez the proud Monarchs think fit , Though Barbarous with him by Embassy to treat . The late shaken Empire Sweed , Dane , Dutch and Spain , His mediation were forced to obtain : As a Prince in whose breast both trouble and peace , The fates of the Nations do daily take place : Who with virtue or'ecomes more then by the sword , And calms the wild tempest of war with his word . Who makes his worst foes with remorse to confess , That Heaven in him does our nation most bless : That in him we are happy and nought can wish more , Unless be that God would his grace on us shower : To be thankful for blessings above our desert , Even such as command in us a Loyal Heart . The pattern of Heaven in him good men find So gracious , so just , and so affable kind : That his Majesty shrouded his pitying eye , Regards the distressed , and shuns not their cry : But relief he does tender unto the Oppressed , And suffers them not to depart unredressed . Then who but the worst of mankind can offend , Against inate goodness that still does extend : Like to kind providence in such a care , That his friends and his foes of his bounty take share Let faction and tumult for ever then cease , And blush to offend such a Monarch as this . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Royal Character : OR , The Mirror of Majesty , A New SONG . ' This Sacred , this is and Illustrous Theam , A bright Reflection of that Radiant Beam ; That Albion does illumen such a Ray , As shirking through black Clouds , restored our Day ; A Glorious Sun that risin [ g ] [ i ] n the East , With warmth revived the North , the South and West . To the pleasant New Tune of , Long live our Great Cesar ; Or , Now , now the Fight's done . L Ong Live our Great Cesar , and long be his Reign , Who Justice and mercy so well does maintain ; Before whose stern anger the Rebels do fly , Yet find him relenting when mercy they cry : He like his Creator does pity their State , And in hope's of amendment reverses their fate . Spares those would un-King him , and favour extends , To the stubbornest Rebel , when humbly he bends : His eyes have compassion in war and in peace , And delights not in blood on the land nor the Seas : But in its mid Volue his thunder he stays , And thinks it enough to be Crowned with fresh bays . The proud he does humble , the humble he spares , As too low for his anger , though not for his cares : A Royal compassion and bounty does Reign , In the breast of our Monarch , who never did design , To look down on the wretched , and yield them relief , To condole their misfortune and banish their grief . He glories in mildness , and studies to be Above Romes first Cesar in his Clemency : The fierce banded parts could never remove , From those that are Loyal his favour and Love : He weathered the tempest with such a brave mind , That he rightly is stiled the supreme of Mankind . The second part , to the same Tune . Majesty ever triumphed on his brow , And in him the Genius of all Nations bow : High Arbitrer ever of peace and of war , Whom Christians admire , and Heathens adore : From India to Fez the proud Monarchs think fit , Though Barbarous with him by Embassy to treat . The late shaken Empire Sweed , Dane , Dutch and Spain , His mediation were forced to obtain : As a Prince in whose breast both trouble and peace , The fates of the Nations do daily take place : Who with virtue or'ecomes more then by the sword , And calms the wild tempest of war with his word . Who makes his worst foes with remorse to confess , That Heaven in him does our nation most bless : That in him we are happy and nought can wish more , Unless be that God would his grace on us shower : To be thankful for blessings above our desert , Even such as command in us a Loyal Heart . The pattern of Heaven in him good men find So gracious , so just , and so affable kind : That his Majesty shrouded his pitying eye , Regards the distressed , and shuns not their cry : But relief he does tender unto the Oppressed , And suffers them not to depart unredressed . Then who but the worst of mankind can offend , Against inate goodness that still does extend : Like to kind providence in such a care , That his friends and his foes of his bounty take share Let faction and tumult for ever then cease , And blush to offend such a Monarch as this . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 