A New SONG In Praise of the Gentle-Craft . Written by R. Rigby of the same Trade . To the Tune of , The Shoemakers Travels to London , Oxford , Cambridge , and a Thou - sand places more . To all truehearted Shoemakers these lines I do present , And better would , if that I could my Brains get to invent . In honour of the Gentle-Craft , that Subject's true hath been , Who proffers still with a goodwill to serve their King and Queen . And in defence of Englands Cause , against Popery they'll fight Tyrconnel [ , ] M onsieur , or by the Turk , maintaining Englands Right . Let Weavers , Butchers , and the like , that dares not show their face In loyalty to King and Queen , to Shoemakers give place . For why ? the Shoemakers of old most valiant hearts did bear , Who feared no men by Land or Sea , for fire , arms , sword , or spear . There's Crispin and Crispianus both true Kings Sons they were born , Who stooped so low the Craft to know , and thought it not a scorn . Till Crispianus that brave Prince , whose warlike deeds were known , Whose loyalty for ever free , brave Shoemakers have shown . And now Shoemakers with all speed packs up their working geer , In loyalty to the King and Queen , and for their Country dear . To help poor Protestants at need , whose troubles great are seen , In hope's of their delivery , by our good King and Queen . Let Bowels earn within you then , put case it were your own , That for the King , Queen , and Gospel-sake , your Valour may be shown . Let every Trade , whatever they be , with Shoemakers consent , And for their pains they'll reap the gains , blind Popery to prevent . Poor Protestants they waiting are for help of Englands aid , Our King and Queen for to embrace ; then let it never be said , That English boys should Cowards be , and are so much unmanned , Who with those Teagues before did fight and banished them their Land. Then let them know we do not fear no Talbot nor no Dog , Against whom brave Shoemakers will fight and run them int ' a Bog . And when that we have caught him there Dear-Joys you'll have the rout , And cry , Oh hone ! it is in vain , King William to stand out . Then what becomes of all your Priests ? this bout will fright them dead , For Protestants will smell them out , and get five pounds a head . Return thanks unto God on high . who is our heavenly King , And set us free from popery ; his praise for ever sing . And though some think Ireland is lost , our God , when he sees good , Can turn their hearts and then convert without much loss of blood . Take courage then my hearts of gold , brave Shoemakers so free ; For why ? your fame and valour bold Recorded sure shall be . Printed for A. Milbourn in green Arbour in the Old Baily . A New SONG In Praise of the Gentle-Craft . Written by R. Rigby of the same Trade . To the Tune of , The Shoemakers Travels to London , Oxford , Cambridge , and a Thou - sand places more . To all truehearted Shoemakers these lines I do present , And better would , if that I could my Brains get to invent . In honour of the Gentle-Craft , that Subject's true hath been , Who proffers still with a goodwill to serve their King and Queen . And in defence of Englands Cause , against Popery they'll fight Tyrconnel [ , ] M onsieur , or by the Turk , maintaining Englands Right . Let Weavers , Butchers , and the like , that dares not show their face In loyalty to King and Queen , to Shoemakers give place . For why ? the Shoemakers of old most valiant hearts did bear , Who feared no men by Land or Sea , for fire , arms , sword , or spear . There's Crispin and Crispianus both true Kings Sons they were born , Who stooped so low the Craft to know , and thought it not a scorn . Till Crispianus that brave Prince , whose warlike deeds were known , Whose loyalty for ever free , brave Shoemakers have shown . And now Shoemakers with all speed packs up their working geer , In loyalty to the King and Queen , and for their Country dear . To help poor Protestants at need , whose troubles great are seen , In hope's of their delivery , by our good King and Queen . Let Bowels earn within you then , put case it were your own , That for the King , Queen , and Gospel-sake , your Valour may be shown . Let every Trade , whatever they be , with Shoemakers consent , And for their pains they'll reap the gains , blind Popery to prevent . Poor Protestants they waiting are for help of Englands aid , Our King and Queen for to embrace ; then let it never be said , That English boys should Cowards be , and are so much unmanned , Who with those Teagues before did fight and banished them their Land. Then let them know we do not fear no Talbot nor no Dog , Against whom brave Shoemakers will fight and run them int ' a Bog . And when that we have caught him there Dear-Joys you'll have the rout , And cry , Oh hone ! it is in vain , King William to stand out . Then what becomes of all your Priests ? this bout will fright them dead , For Protestants will smell them out , and get five pounds a head . Return thanks unto God on high . who is our heavenly King , And set us free from popery ; his praise for ever sing . And though some think Ireland is lost , our God , when he sees good , Can turn their hearts and then convert without much loss of blood . Take courage then my hearts of gold , brave Shoemakers so free ; For why ? your fame and valour bold Recorded sure shall be . Printed for A. Milbourn in green Arbour in the Old Baily . 