The Cobbler's CORRANT : OR , THE Old Shoemaker Metamorphosed Into a Spick and Span new Translator , or a Trans - mogreficater of the Mystical Art. Concluding with the four Coats of Arms , viz. Couchant , Guardant , Rampant and Passant . To the Tune of , Craft ; or , Grafts-men more or less . Written by Richard Rigby , a faithful Brother to the Gentle-craft . Licensed according to Order . A Proverb oftimes hath been told , which now I find for to be true , A Shoemaker when he grows old will make a Cobbler fresh and new : Then loving Neighbours stand my Friend , And send me your , Old Shoes to mend . For a Shoemaker long time I've been , this forty years and almost five , With auls and knives both sharp and keen , yet n'er could find the way to thrive , Till now I'm come , my loving Friend , Near Hicks's Hall , Old Shoes to mend . In St. John's Street , by St. John's Lane , there am I fired in a stall , For to begin the good old game , that does rejoice my heart withal ; Thus many a penny I may spend , If I get but , Old Shoes to mend . In the dreadful fire of sixty six , near to Fleet-bridge I was burned out ; Both hammer , pincers and tickling-sticks , likewise I have a rubing-clout , Which I have kept for this same end , With St. Hugh's Bones , Old Shoes to mend . Then let no Cobbler angry be , nor fallen out with his Brothe-trade ; Since St. John's Street is free for me , where now a Cobbler I am arrayed , For to get my living I do pretend , While neatly I Old Shoes do mend . With contentment I now am crowned , a merry Cobbler in my stall ; As he that has ten thousand pound , of Gold and Silver at his call ; And thus my Life I mean to spend , If I get but Old Shoes to mend . Long time I lived in Ireland , And wrought for many a Noble Peer ; Yet now at length , at your Command , I ready am to serve you here ; For nothing more I do contend , Then for to have Old Shoes to mend . A Cobbler Rampant I have been , But never Couchant till this time ; And since I do the same begin , I hope it won't be thought a Crime ; Then you that seen me , stand my Friend , And send me your Old Shoes to mend . I was a Cobbler Guardant too , And Passant in my days of Youth , Thus the four Coats , I have run through , If I may speak the naked Truth , To Rich and Poor I'll prove a Friend , Who brings me their , Old Shoes to mend . I have been tumbled to and from , And could not find a pleasant Stall ; Till Fortune did a favour show , And placed me close to Hick's Hall , Wherein my Office I'll attend , For to receive Old Shoes to mend . Thus do I give a large Account , Of our renowned ancient Trade , Where Wealth and Riches does surmount , Likewise our Banners are displayed ; Thus my true Joys will still transcend , Can I but get Old Shoes to mend . Now to conclude my pleasant Song , Let Craftsmen with me all agree , Since to that Trade I do belong , I hope none will offended be ; For I will prove a jovial Friend , Can I but get Old Shoes to mend . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner , near West-smithfield . The Cobbler's CORRANT : OR , THE Old Shoemaker Metamorphosed Into a Spick and Span new Translator , or a Trans - mogreficater of the Mystical Art. Concluding with the four Coats of Arms , viz. Couchant , Guardant , Rampant and Passant . To the Tune of , Craft ; or , Grafts-men more or less . Written by Richard Rigby , a faithful Brother to the Gentle-craft . Licensed according to Order . A Proverb oftimes hath been told , which now I find for to be true , A Shoemaker when he grows old will make a Cobbler fresh and new : Then loving Neighbours stand my Friend , And send me your , Old Shoes to mend . For a Shoemaker long time I've been , this forty years and almost five , With auls and knives both sharp and keen , yet n'er could find the way to thrive , Till now I'm come , my loving Friend , Near Hicks's Hall , Old Shoes to mend . In St. John's Street , by St. John's Lane , there am I fired in a stall , For to begin the good old game , that does rejoice my heart withal ; Thus many a penny I may spend , If I get but , Old Shoes to mend . In the dreadful fire of sixty six , near to Fleet-bridge I was burned out ; Both hammer , pincers and tickling-sticks , likewise I have a rubing-clout , Which I have kept for this same end , With St. Hugh's Bones , Old Shoes to mend . Then let no Cobbler angry be , nor fallen out with his Brothe-trade ; Since St. John's Street is free for me , where now a Cobbler I am arrayed , For to get my living I do pretend , While neatly I Old Shoes do mend . With contentment I now am crowned , a merry Cobbler in my stall ; As he that has ten thousand pound , of Gold and Silver at his call ; And thus my Life I mean to spend , If I get but Old Shoes to mend . Long time I lived in Ireland , And wrought for many a Noble Peer ; Yet now at length , at your Command , I ready am to serve you here ; For nothing more I do contend , Then for to have Old Shoes to mend . A Cobbler Rampant I have been , But never Couchant till this time ; And since I do the same begin , I hope it won't be thought a Crime ; Then you that seen me , stand my Friend , And send me your Old Shoes to mend . I was a Cobbler Guardant too , And Passant in my days of Youth , Thus the four Coats , I have run through , If I may speak the naked Truth , To Rich and Poor I'll prove a Friend , Who brings me their , Old Shoes to mend . I have been tumbled to and from , And could not find a pleasant Stall ; Till Fortune did a favour show , And placed me close to Hick's Hall , Wherein my Office I'll attend , For to receive Old Shoes to mend . Thus do I give a large Account , Of our renowned ancient Trade , Where Wealth and Riches does surmount , Likewise our Banners are displayed ; Thus my true Joys will still transcend , Can I but get Old Shoes to mend . Now to conclude my pleasant Song , Let Craftsmen with me all agree , Since to that Trade I do belong , I hope none will offended be ; For I will prove a jovial Friend , Can I but get Old Shoes to mend . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner , near West-smithfield . 