The Great Boobee . To a pleasant New Tune ; Or , Sallengers Bound . M Y Friend , if you will understand my Fortune's what they are , I once had Cattle , House , and Land , but now I am never the near , My Father left a good estate , as I may tell to thee , I cozened was of all I had , like a great Boobee . I went to School with a good intent and for to learn my Book , And all the day I went to play , in it I never did look , Full seven years , or very nigh , as I may tell to thee I could hardly say my Christ-Cross Row , like a great Boobee . My Father then in all the haste , did set me to the Blow , And for to lash to Horse about , indeed I knew not how : My Father took his Whip in hand , and soundly lashed me ; He called me fool and-Country Clown , like a great Boobee . But I did from my Father run , for I will Blow no more , Because he had so slashed me , and made my sides so soar : But I will go to London Town , some [ F ] ashions for to see , When I came there they called me clown , and great Boobee . But as I went along the street , I carried my hat in my had , And to every one that I did meet , I bravely bust my hand : Some did laugh and some did scoff , and some did mock at me , And some did say I was a Woodcock , and a great Boobee . Then I did walk in haste to Pauls , the Steeple for to view , Because I herd some people say , it should be built new . Then I god up unto the top , the City for to see , It was so high it made me cry , like a great Boobee . The Second Part , to the same Tune . F Rom thence I went to Westminster , and for to see the Tombs , O , said I , what a house is here , with and infinite sighed of Rooms ? Sweetly the Abbey Bells' did ring , it was a fine sighed to see , Methought I was going to heaven in a string like a great Boobee . But as I went along the street , the most part of the day , Many Gallants I did meet , methought they were very gay : I blew Nose , and pist my Hose , some people did me see , They said I was a Beastly fool , and a great Boobee . Next day I through Pie-corner past , the Roast meat-on the Stall , Invited me to take a taste , my Money was but small : The meat I picked , the Cook me kicked , as I may tell to thee ; He beatrice me soar , and made me roar , like a great Boobee . As I through Smith-field lately walked , a gallant Lass I met , Familiarly with me she talked , which I cannot forget , She proffered me a pint of Wine , methought she was a wondrous free , To the Tavern then I went with her , like a great Boobee . She told me we were near of Kin , and called for Wine good store . Before the reckoning was brought in , my Cousin proved a Whore : My purse she picked , and went away , my Cousin cozened me , The Vintner kicked me out of door , like a great Boobee . At the Exchange when I came there , I saw most gallant things , I thought the Pictures living were of all our English Kings : I doffed my hat and made a Leg , and kneeled on my knee ; The people laughed and called me Fool , and a great Boobee . To Paris-Garden then I went , where there is great resort , My pleasure was my punishment , I did not like the sport : The Garden Bull with his stone horns on high then tossed me , I did bewray my self with fear , like a great Boobee . The Bearheard went to save me then , the people flocked about , I told thee Be k r-Garden-men , my guts were almost out : They said I stunk most grievously , no man would pity me , They called me witless fool and ass , and great Boobee . Then over the water I did pass , as you shall understand , I dropped into the Thames alas , before I came to Land. The Waterman did help me out , and thus did say to me , It's not thy fortune to be drowned , like a great Boobee . But I have learned so much wit , shall shorten all my cares . If I can but a License get , to play before the Bears ; 'Twould be a gallant place indeed as I may tell to thee , Then who dares call me fool or ass , or great Boobee . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. M. and A . M.The Great Boobee . To a pleasant New Tune ; Or , Sallengers Bound . M Y Friend , if you will understand my Fortune's what they are , I once had Cattle , House , and Land , but now I am never the near , My Father left a good estate , as I may tell to thee , I cozened was of all I had , like a great Boobee . I went to School with a good intent and for to learn my Book , And all the day I went to play , in it I never did look , Full seven years , or very nigh , as I may tell to thee I could hardly say my Christ-Cross Row , like a great Boobee . My Father then in all the haste , did set me to the Blow , And for to lash to Horse about , indeed I knew not how : My Father took his Whip in hand , and soundly lashed me ; He called me fool and-Country Clown , like a great Boobee . But I did from my Father run , for I will Blow no more , Because he had so slashed me , and made my sides so soar : But I will go to London Town , some [ F ] ashions for to see , When I came there they called me clown , and great Boobee . But as I went along the street , I carried my hat in my had , And to every one that I did meet , I bravely bust my hand : Some did laugh and some did scoff , and some did mock at me , And some did say I was a Woodcock , and a great Boobee . Then I did walk in haste to Pauls , the Steeple for to view , Because I herd some people say , it should be built new . Then I god up unto the top , the City for to see , It was so high it made me cry , like a great Boobee . The Second Part , to the same Tune . F Rom thence I went to Westminster , and for to see the Tombs , O , said I , what a house is here , with and infinite sighed of Rooms ? Sweetly the Abbey Bells' did ring , it was a fine sighed to see , Methought I was going to heaven in a string like a great Boobee . But as I went along the street , the most part of the day , Many Gallants I did meet , methought they were very gay : I blew Nose , and pist my Hose , some people did me see , They said I was a Beastly fool , and a great Boobee . Next day I through Pie-corner past , the Roast meat-on the Stall , Invited me to take a taste , my Money was but small : The meat I picked , the Cook me kicked , as I may tell to thee ; He beatrice me soar , and made me roar , like a great Boobee . As I through Smith-field lately walked , a gallant Lass I met , Familiarly with me she talked , which I cannot forget , She proffered me a pint of Wine , methought she was a wondrous free , To the Tavern then I went with her , like a great Boobee . She told me we were near of Kin , and called for Wine good store . Before the reckoning was brought in , my Cousin proved a Whore : My purse she picked , and went away , my Cousin cozened me , The Vintner kicked me out of door , like a great Boobee . At the Exchange when I came there , I saw most gallant things , I thought the Pictures living were of all our English Kings : I doffed my hat and made a Leg , and kneeled on my knee ; The people laughed and called me Fool , and a great Boobee . To Paris-Garden then I went , where there is great resort , My pleasure was my punishment , I did not like the sport : The Garden Bull with his stone horns on high then tossed me , I did bewray my self with fear , like a great Boobee . The Bearheard went to save me then , the people flocked about , I told thee Be k r-Garden-men , my guts were almost out : They said I stunk most grievously , no man would pity me , They called me witless fool and ass , and great Boobee . Then over the water I did pass , as you shall understand , I dropped into the Thames alas , before I came to Land. The Waterman did help me out , and thus did say to me , It's not thy fortune to be drowned , like a great Boobee . But I have learned so much wit , shall shorten all my cares . If I can but a License get , to play before the Bears ; 'Twould be a gallant place indeed as I may tell to thee , Then who dares call me fool or ass , or great Boobee . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. M. and A.M. 