The West-Country MISER : OR , AND Unconscionable Farmer's Miserable End : Who having Hoarded up his Corn in hope's it would rise to a higher Price , was Disappointed so that he fell into Despair , and [ died at last ] by the fright of and Apparition . Tune of , Love's a sweet passion : or , Found Boy , etc L Et all loving people be pleased to attend , To a woeful relation sent up by a friend , Of a couple of farmers who happened of late , To discourse as they met at the parish church-gate : Now the one was a miser who hoarded his store , And the other was loving and good to the poor . The miser he seemed to be troubled in mind , For his heart was to cruel oppression enctised , Though he came from a sermon , yet nevertheless , In a passion these words he began to express : Now the price is abated of all sorts of grain , But I'll never fell mine till they raise it again . O neighbour ! How can you thus murmuring stand , When the Lord by a gracious and plentiful hand , Has been pleased to replenish our barns again , Therefore sure we have not any cause to complain : I rejoice in a plenty , for last year I know That the poor they with hungry bellies did go . The miser replied with a fury so hight , Friend , a fig for the poor , faith , I valve them not , A good price I am willing to make of my corn , But I never was so balked since the day I was born ; Above two hundred pound I shall lose now I fear , By the wheat which I might have sold off the last year . The other said , Neighbour , you have your desert , You can blame none alive but your covetous heart , For you reckon to fell it for twice as much more , And for that very reason you keep up your store ; Since you had such a cruel and covetous heart , I declare of a truth you were served in your kind . The miser cried , When I lie down in my bed , I have nothing but trouble and cares in my head ; Oh , this plentiful summer my purpose did cross , I am almost distracted to think of my loss ; But I'll keep it as long as my barns will hold , Ever at such a low market my corn shall be sold . O cruel oppressor , the other replied , The sweet blessings of God then it seems you will hide , Which he sends for to nourish the raze of mankind , In your barns for profit it must be confined ; Sure the name of a christian you do not deserve , Who desires to see your poor brothers starve . If God had no greater compassion then you , Neighbour , what would this land of poor sufferers do ? In the tilling our ground we might labour and strive , Ay , and yet not have bred for to keep us alive ; Oh but blessed be God in the heaven's above , He has sent us down showers of his infinite love . They parted and home the old miser repaired , As he entered the yard he was woefully scared , There the Devil with silver and gold did appear , For to buy all his corn that was left the last year : And no sooner the miser had set him a price , But this strange apparition was gone in a trice . He run in and told them what he had beheld , Being frighted they were with astonishment filled ; All the night in his bed he raving did lie , Let me fell off my corn , I'll not keep it not I : To the grief of his friends thus he languishing lay , And he died about five of the clock the next day . Now let not our thoughts after vanities range , For this was a sad sudden and sorrowful change , On the wealth of the world he had set his whole heart , Yet from that he was forced with sorrow to part : Now let his fatal end be a warning to all , Who in dealing makes not any conscience at all . London : Printed for J. Wolrah , in Holbourn . The West-Country MISER : OR , AND Unconscionable Farmer's Miserable End : Who having Hoarded up his Corn in hope's it would rise to a higher Price , was Disappointed so that he fell into Despair , and [ died at last ] by the fright of and Apparition . Tune of , Love's a sweet passion : or , Found Boy , etc L Et all loving people be pleased to attend , To a woeful relation sent up by a friend , Of a couple of farmers who happened of late , To discourse as they met at the parish church-gate : Now the one was a miser who hoarded his store , And the other was loving and good to the poor . The miser he seemed to be troubled in mind , For his heart was to cruel oppression enctised , Though he came from a sermon , yet nevertheless , In a passion these words he began to express : Now the price is abated of all sorts of grain , But I'll never fell mine till they raise it again . O neighbour ! How can you thus murmuring stand , When the Lord by a gracious and plentiful hand , Has been pleased to replenish our barns again , Therefore sure we have not any cause to complain : I rejoice in a plenty , for last year I know That the poor they with hungry bellies did go . The miser replied with a fury so hight , Friend , a fig for the poor , faith , I valve them not , A good price I am willing to make of my corn , But I never was so balked since the day I was born ; Above two hundred pound I shall lose now I fear , By the wheat which I might have sold off the last year . The other said , Neighbour , you have your desert , You can blame none alive but your covetous heart , For you reckon to fell it for twice as much more , And for that very reason you keep up your store ; Since you had such a cruel and covetous heart , I declare of a truth you were served in your kind . The miser cried , When I lie down in my bed , I have nothing but trouble and cares in my head ; Oh , this plentiful summer my purpose did cross , I am almost distracted to think of my loss ; But I'll keep it as long as my barns will hold , Ever at such a low market my corn shall be sold . O cruel oppressor , the other replied , The sweet blessings of God then it seems you will hide , Which he sends for to nourish the raze of mankind , In your barns for profit it must be confined ; Sure the name of a christian you do not deserve , Who desires to see your poor brothers starve . If God had no greater compassion then you , Neighbour , what would this land of poor sufferers do ? In the tilling our ground we might labour and strive , Ay , and yet not have bred for to keep us alive ; Oh but blessed be God in the heaven's above , He has sent us down showers of his infinite love . They parted and home the old miser repaired , As he entered the yard he was woefully scared , There the Devil with silver and gold did appear , For to buy all his corn that was left the last year : And no sooner the miser had set him a price , But this strange apparition was gone in a trice . He run in and told them what he had beheld , Being frighted they were with astonishment filled ; All the night in his bed he raving did lie , Let me fell off my corn , I'll not keep it not I : To the grief of his friends thus he languishing lay , And he died about five of the clock the next day . Now let not our thoughts after vanities range , For this was a sad sudden and sorrowful change , On the wealth of the world he had set his whole heart , Yet from that he was forced with sorrow to part : Now let his fatal end be a warning to all , Who in dealing makes not any conscience at all . London : Printed for J. Wolrah , in Holbourn . 