The Frolicsome Duke : Or , The Tinker's good Fortune , Who being found Dead Drunk , was conveyed to the Duke's Palace , where in a Bed of State he slept himself Sober ; the next day being honoured as the real Duke till they made him as Drunk as before , and then left him where they first found him ; he believing when he awakened , that all had been a Dream : together with the Duke's Kindness for the Frolick's Sake . Tune of , Found Boy , etc Now as famed as report , a young duke keeps a court , One that pleases his fancy with frolicsome sport : Now among all the rest , here is one I protest , Which make you to smile when you hear the true just : A poor tinker he found , lying drunk on the ground , As secure in a sleep as if laid in a shroud . The duke said to his men , ' William , Richard and Ben , Take him home to my palace , We'll sport with him then ; Over a horse he was laid , and with care soon conveyed To the palace , although he was poorly arrayed ; Then they stripped off his clothes , both his shirt , shoes , and hose , And they put him to bed for to take his repose . Having pulled off his shirt . which was all over dirt , They did give him clean holland , this was no great hurt ; On a bed of soft down , like a lord of renown , They did lay him to sleep the drink out of his crown ; In the morning when day , he admiring lay . For to see the rich chamber both gaudy and gay . Now he lay something late , in his rich bed of state , Till at last knights and squires , they on him did wait ; And the chamberling bore , then did likewise declare , He desired to know what apparel he'd beware : The poor tinker amazed , on the gentleman gazed . And admired how he to this honour was raised . Though he seemed something mute , yet he chosen a rich suit , Which he streitways put on without longer dispute ; With a star on his side , which the tinker offt eyed , And it seemed for to swell him a little with pride ; For he said to himself , Where is Joan my sweet wife ? Sure s he never did see me so fine in her life / From a convenient place , the right duke his good grace , Did observe his behaviour in every case ; To a garden of state , on the tinker they wait , Trumpets sounding before him , thought he this is great Where on horses or two , pleasant walks he did view , With commanders and squires in scarlet and blue . A fine dinner was dressed , both for him and his guest , He was placed at the table above all the rest , In a rich chair of state , lined with fine crimson read , With a rich golden canopy over his head ; As he sat at his meat , the music played sweet , With the choicest of singing his joys to complete . While the tinker did dine , he had plenty of wine , Rich canary with sherry , and tent superfine ; Like a right honest soul , faith , he took off his bowl , Till at last he began for to tumble and roll From his chair to the flower , where he sleeping did snore , Being seven times drunker then ever before . Then the duke did ordain , they should strip him amain , And restore him his old leather garments again ; 'Twas a point next the worst , yet perform it they must , And they carried him strait where they found him at first ; Then he slept all the night , as indeed well he might , But when he did awaken his joys took their flight . For the height of his glory so pleasant did seem , That he thought it to be but a mere golden dream , Till at length being brought , to the duke where he sought For a pardon , as fearing he had set them at nought : But his highness he said , Thou'rt a jolly bold blade , Such a frolic before I think never was played . Then his highness bespoke him a new suit and a cloak , Which he gave for the sake of this frolicsome joak , Nay , and five hundred pound , with ten acres of ground , Thou shalt never , said he , range the countries round , Crying old brass to mend , for I'll be thy good friend , Nay , and Joan thy sweet wife shall my duchess attend . Then the tinker replied , What must Joan my sweet bride Be a lady , in chariots of pleasure to ride ? Must we have gold and land , e'ry day at command ? Then I shall be a squire I well understand . Well , I thank your good grace , and your love I embrace , I was never before in so happy a case . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-blass on London-bridge . The Frolicsome Duke : Or , The Tinker's good Fortune , Who being found Dead Drunk , was conveyed to the Duke's Palace , where in a Bed of State he slept himself Sober ; the next day being honoured as the real Duke till they made him as Drunk as before , and then left him where they first found him ; he believing when he awakened , that all had been a Dream : together with the Duke's Kindness for the Frolick's Sake . Tune of , Found Boy , etc Now as famed as report , a young duke keeps a court , One that pleases his fancy with frolicsome sport : Now among all the rest , here is one I protest , Which make you to smile when you hear the true just : A poor tinker he found , lying drunk on the ground , As secure in a sleep as if laid in a shroud . The duke said to his men , ' William , Richard and Ben , Take him home to my palace , We'll sport with him then ; Over a horse he was laid , and with care soon conveyed To the palace , although he was poorly arrayed ; Then they stripped off his clothes , both his shirt , shoes , and hose , And they put him to bed for to take his repose . Having pulled off his shirt . which was all over dirt , They did give him clean holland , this was no great hurt ; On a bed of soft down , like a lord of renown , They did lay him to sleep the drink out of his crown ; In the morning when day , he admiring lay . For to see the rich chamber both gaudy and gay . Now he lay something late , in his rich bed of state , Till at last knights and squires , they on him did wait ; And the chamberling bore , then did likewise declare , He desired to know what apparel he'd beware : The poor tinker amazed , on the gentleman gazed . And admired how he to this honour was raised . Though he seemed something mute , yet he chosen a rich suit , Which he streitways put on without longer dispute ; With a star on his side , which the tinker offt eyed , And it seemed for to swell him a little with pride ; For he said to himself , Where is Joan my sweet wife ? Sure s he never did see me so fine in her life / From a convenient place , the right duke his good grace , Did observe his behaviour in every case ; To a garden of state , on the tinker they wait , Trumpets sounding before him , thought he this is great Where on horses or two , pleasant walks he did view , With commanders and squires in scarlet and blue . A fine dinner was dressed , both for him and his guest , He was placed at the table above all the rest , In a rich chair of state , lined with fine crimson read , With a rich golden canopy over his head ; As he sat at his meat , the music played sweet , With the choicest of singing his joys to complete . While the tinker did dine , he had plenty of wine , Rich canary with sherry , and tent superfine ; Like a right honest soul , faith , he took off his bowl , Till at last he began for to tumble and roll From his chair to the flower , where he sleeping did snore , Being seven times drunker then ever before . Then the duke did ordain , they should strip him amain , And restore him his old leather garments again ; 'Twas a point next the worst , yet perform it they must , And they carried him strait where they found him at first ; Then he slept all the night , as indeed well he might , But when he did awaken his joys took their flight . For the height of his glory so pleasant did seem , That he thought it to be but a mere golden dream , Till at length being brought , to the duke where he sought For a pardon , as fearing he had set them at nought : But his highness he said , Thou'rt a jolly bold blade , Such a frolic before I think never was played . Then his highness bespoke him a new suit and a cloak , Which he gave for the sake of this frolicsome joak , Nay , and five hundred pound , with ten acres of ground , Thou shalt never , said he , range the countries round , Crying old brass to mend , for I'll be thy good friend , Nay , and Joan thy sweet wife shall my duchess attend . Then the tinker replied , What must Joan my sweet bride Be a lady , in chariots of pleasure to ride ? Must we have gold and land , e'ry day at command ? Then I shall be a squire I well understand . Well , I thank your good grace , and your love I embrace , I was never before in so happy a case . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-blass on London-bridge . 