The West-Countrey Cheat upon Cheat ; OR , No Jest like a True Jest . Here in this Song you may behold and see , What base deceit in choosing Mates there be , Youngmen and Maidens all henceforth be wary , Stand fast to them you do intend to marry : For in my mind , it seems strange and unkind , That Lovers now should turn with every wind : Butcher and Barber , both , pray live in peace , And with your Wives let unity increase . The Tune is , High , ho , my Honey . With Allowance . B Rave West-Country blades come listen , i'll sing you a harmless Song , In troth it was not written , to do any one wrong . It's of a Wanton Barber , that courted a handsome Maid , With Compliments , Gloves and Ribbins , he wooed her , as it's said : But the Butcher he cheated the Barber , and the Barber cozened his Brother : Then was this handsomely done , for one man to cheat the other ? The Girl showed love to the Barber , and friends gave their consent : The Wedding-day was appointed , to be kept in merriment . Both Horse and Foot was invited , to meet'th Bridegroom and Bride : And the Wedding-dinner provided , this cannot be denied . But the Butcher , etc Upon the appointed day , the guess came all to Town : 'Twas pretty for to see how they rid up and down . But a pox upon ill luck , the Barber had lost his Mate , For the Laundress of his Towels , was turned to Butchers meat : So the Butcher , etc The second part , to the same tune . When the Barber he perceived the Butcher had stolen his Bride : He threw by his Scissors and Rayzers , and readily thus replied : I wish the Butcher no harm , but would I were in the Stocks : So the Butcher he had horns , as large as ever had Ox . For the Butcher , etc The people that came to the wedding , went home just as they came : And all about the Country , this news they did proclaim : How that they was deceived , and made it forth in a word : That the Barber had beaten the bush , but the Butcher he catched the Bird . So the Butcher , etc Next day the Barber he , finding himself not well : Did promise faithfully , to marry Coffee Nell . But she was not good food , nor could him satisfy : He had rather feed upon a good fat Chicken-Pye . But the Butcher , etc The Barber shakes off Nell and makes suit to another : As he was cheated before , he needs would cheat his Brother : Then was this handsomely done ? to court his Brother's Bride , I wish that he hereafter , the Wooden-horse may ride . So the Butcher , etc Now Butcher and Barber together , I give you this advice : Beware of the Bulls feather , for it comes in a trice : One thing I had forgotten , which here my song does lack , That is , I prithee Sam , lie closer to my back : But the Butcher , etc More of the matter is , then my song will contain : Yet would I not have you think , I any man disdain . Although the Proverbs so , the truth it may be blamed : But this you all do know , speak truth , it can't be shamed . But the Butcher , etc At Charde also a Miller , a Maiden there did court , Which now had made himself a laughingstock of sport : He had no silver for her , nor had he any gold : But instead of leaving her the Bag , he left his Cloak to hold : But the Butcher , etc God bless the fine town of Taunton , the Glory of the West , For in or near that place , was acted this pretty jest : So to conclude my song , I pray let it be so , Come Brother let's shake hands , and sing Cuckolds all a row For the Butcher cheated the Barber , the Barber cozened his Brother , Then was this handsomely done , for one man to cheat the other ? FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wrig [ ht , ] J. Clarke . The West-Countrey Cheat upon Cheat ; OR , No Jest like a True Jest . Here in this Song you may behold and see , What base deceit in choosing Mates there be , Youngmen and Maidens all henceforth be wary , Stand fast to them you do intend to marry : For in my mind , it seems strange and unkind , That Lovers now should turn with every wind : Butcher and Barber , both , pray live in peace , And with your Wives let unity increase . The Tune is , High , ho , my Honey . With Allowance . B Rave West-Country blades come listen , i'll sing you a harmless Song , In troth it was not written , to do any one wrong . It's of a Wanton Barber , that courted a handsome Maid , With Compliments , Gloves and Ribbins , he wooed her , as it's said : But the Butcher he cheated the Barber , and the Barber cozened his Brother : Then was this handsomely done , for one man to cheat the other ? The Girl showed love to the Barber , and friends gave their consent : The Wedding-day was appointed , to be kept in merriment . Both Horse and Foot was invited , to meet'th Bridegroom and Bride : And the Wedding-dinner provided , this cannot be denied . But the Butcher , etc Upon the appointed day , the guess came all to Town : 'Twas pretty for to see how they rid up and down . But a pox upon ill luck , the Barber had lost his Mate , For the Laundress of his Towels , was turned to Butchers meat : So the Butcher , etc The second part , to the same tune . When the Barber he perceived the Butcher had stolen his Bride : He threw by his Scissors and Rayzers , and readily thus replied : I wish the Butcher no harm , but would I were in the Stocks : So the Butcher he had horns , as large as ever had Ox . For the Butcher , etc The people that came to the wedding , went home just as they came : And all about the Country , this news they did proclaim : How that they was deceived , and made it forth in a word : That the Barber had beaten the bush , but the Butcher he catched the Bird . So the Butcher , etc Next day the Barber he , finding himself not well : Did promise faithfully , to marry Coffee Nell . But she was not good food , nor could him satisfy : He had rather feed upon a good fat Chicken-Pye . But the Butcher , etc The Barber shakes off Nell and makes suit to another : As he was cheated before , he needs would cheat his Brother : Then was this handsomely done ? to court his Brother's Bride , I wish that he hereafter , the Wooden-horse may ride . So the Butcher , etc Now Butcher and Barber together , I give you this advice : Beware of the Bulls feather , for it comes in a trice : One thing I had forgotten , which here my song does lack , That is , I prithee Sam , lie closer to my back : But the Butcher , etc More of the matter is , then my song will contain : Yet would I not have you think , I any man disdain . Although the Proverbs so , the truth it may be blamed : But this you all do know , speak truth , it can't be shamed . But the Butcher , etc At Charde also a Miller , a Maiden there did court , Which now had made himself a laughingstock of sport : He had no silver for her , nor had he any gold : But instead of leaving her the Bag , he left his Cloak to hold : But the Butcher , etc God bless the fine town of Taunton , the Glory of the West , For in or near that place , was acted this pretty jest : So to conclude my song , I pray let it be so , Come Brother let's shake hands , and sing Cuckolds all a row For the Butcher cheated the Barber , the Barber cozened his Brother , Then was this handsomely done , for one man to cheat the other ? FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wrig [ ht , ] J. Clarke . 