[ ? ] OR The Good Fellows Frolic BEING The Jovial Companions Pastime . He takes no care to hoard up Wealth and Treasure , But is resolved to spend his time in pleasure : So he but get good Liquour of the strongest , He cares no more , let them take all lives longest . To a new Tune , Or , leave the World behind us . C Ome prithee Will let us drink our fill now we are met together We'll quench our thirst in liquour till we fear no Wind nor Weather , H ang Sorrow cast away care the Parish is bound to find us : For thee and I and all must die and leave the world behind us Let rich men strive to gather wealth , and wise men spend their spirits We'll drink the tother jovial health according to our merits While we carouse it merrily we care not who do mind us , For thee etc , We will not to the Indies sail or seek out Foreign Nations At home we'll drink a Cup of Ale and fear no fogs invasions . When we are on the merry Pin our Liquour will not blind us : For thee , etc , Dick Tarlton was a merry wag as ever trodden on leather , He used to vapor , boast and brag , and shake his hat and feather Just such as he we two must be even so does nature bind us For thee , etc , Then Drawer fill us Liquour store we scorn to be so borish , A pretty woman was Jane Shore but she was something whorish : Drink oft thy Glase my honest lad here's nobody does mind us : For thee etc W E'l try each house throughout the town to find out drink that's strongest , And there we'll pitch our Standard down take all that lives the longest , Stand not in awe , for why the Law in Fetters shall not bind us , For thee and I and all must die . and leave the World behind us . A dish of Music bring ( you Knave ) to celebrate our Fancies , Make use of time whist time we have where's Peg and Sue , and Frances When we are in the silent grave , ther's nobody will mind us For thee etc While Soldiers fight for wounds & amp ; scars and Seamen blows the Ocean , We'll fight at home in Venus Wars we care not for promotion : Affairs of Sates , loads not out pates such troubles shall not find us For thee etc Then fill us in a cup of Sack hang pinching let us frolic , The more we spend the less we lack 'Twill cure us of the Cholic : Now we are born we must be kept as yet they have not pined us For thee etc , A short and merry life is best and most to be commended Live free from care and take our rest and always be befriended . We'll never strive to gather Gold since riches will but blind us , For thee etc We have not long to take our swing by course of nature's spinning For both the Beggar and the King hath ending and beginning , Then let us always merry be , until that death do find us For thee etc And when as death has closed our eyes as he will do [ ? ] sir [ ? ] tO [ ? ] in , They'll say here's two good fellows lies that often drank at parting , The Bells' shall ring , the Clark shall sing , the good old wife shall wind us : The Sexton shall lay , our bodies in Clay Where our Creditors never shall find us FINIS London Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , and J , Wright . [ ? ] OR The Good Fellows Frolic BEING The Jovial Companions Pastime . He takes no care to hoard up Wealth and Treasure , But is resolved to spend his time in pleasure : So he but get good Liquour of the strongest , He cares no more , let them take all lives longest . To a new Tune , Or , leave the World behind us . C Ome prithee Will let us drink our fill now we are met together We'll quench our thirst in liquour till we fear no Wind nor Weather , H ang Sorrow cast away care the Parish is bound to find us : For thee and I and all must die and leave the world behind us Let rich men strive to gather wealth , and wise men spend their spirits We'll drink the tother jovial health according to our merits While we carouse it merrily we care not who do mind us , For thee etc , We will not to the Indies sail or seek out Foreign Nations At home we'll drink a Cup of Ale and fear no fogs invasions . When we are on the merry Pin our Liquour will not blind us : For thee , etc , Dick Tarlton was a merry wag as ever trodden on leather , He used to vapor , boast and brag , and shake his hat and feather Just such as he we two must be even so does nature bind us For thee , etc , Then Drawer fill us Liquour store we scorn to be so borish , A pretty woman was Jane Shore but she was something whorish : Drink oft thy Glase my honest lad here's nobody does mind us : For thee etc W E'l try each house throughout the town to find out drink that's strongest , And there we'll pitch our Standard down take all that lives the longest , Stand not in awe , for why the Law in Fetters shall not bind us , For thee and I and all must die . and leave the World behind us . A dish of Music bring ( you Knave ) to celebrate our Fancies , Make use of time whist time we have where's Peg and Sue , and Frances When we are in the silent grave , ther's nobody will mind us For thee etc While Soldiers fight for wounds & amp ; scars and Seamen blows the Ocean , We'll fight at home in Venus Wars we care not for promotion : Affairs of Sates , loads not out pates such troubles shall not find us For thee etc Then fill us in a cup of Sack hang pinching let us frolic , The more we spend the less we lack 'Twill cure us of the Cholic : Now we are born we must be kept as yet they have not pined us For thee etc , A short and merry life is best and most to be commended Live free from care and take our rest and always be befriended . We'll never strive to gather Gold since riches will but blind us , For thee etc We have not long to take our swing by course of nature's spinning For both the Beggar and the King hath ending and beginning , Then let us always merry be , until that death do find us For thee etc And when as death has closed our eyes as he will do [ ? ] sir [ ? ] tO [ ? ] in , They'll say here's two good fellows lies that often drank at parting , The Bells' shall ring , the Clark shall sing , the good old wife shall wind us : The Sexton shall lay , our bodies in Clay Where our Creditors never shall find us FINIS London Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , and J , Wright . 