This Money that makes a Man : OR , The Good-Fellows Folly . Here in this Song Good-Fellow thou mayest find , How Money makes a Man , if thou'rt not blind ? Therefore return ever that it be too late , And don't on Strumpets spend thy whole estate , For when all is gone , no better thou wilt be : But Laughed to scorn in all thy poverty . To a pleasant new Tune : Bonny black Bess : Or , Digby . By J. Wade . O H what a madness it's to borrow or lend , Or for strong Liquour thy money to spend ; For when that is wanting thy courage is cool , Thou must stand Cap in hand to every fool : but if thy pockets can jingle they will take thy word O then thou art company for Knight or yet Lord : Then make much of a Penny as near as you can , For if that be wanting thou'rt counted no man . Then listen a while and i'll tell you in brief , The most of my sorrow , my care , and my grief ; I had and estate I'll make it appear , Beside all my stock , was worth fifty a year : But so soon as I to drinking then fell , My Land I then Mortgaged , my Cattle did fell ; No sooner the money I for them had took , But it went to the Alehouse i'll swear on a book . Thus in a short time my money did waste , And I found my self not a pin better at last ; While other Tradesmen were working full hard , I from and Alehouse could not be debarred ; There would I fit tippling day after day , And my Wife she unto me full often would say , Make much of a Penny as near as you can , For if that be wanting thou'lt be counted no man . But the words that she spoke i'd regard not a straw But would kick her & amp ; beatrice her , & amp ; keep her in awe ; My children at home might eat the bore wall , While I in and Alehouse for strong liquour did call : And my Hostis forsooth must needs fit on my knee though my wife she hath twice more beauty than she Yet that would not please my lecherous mind , Because for my Money my Hostis was kind . But in conclusion here comes all my care , My back it grew thin , and my pockets grew bore ; Then I told my Hostis my pitiful tale , In hope's that my sorrows she would bewail : But she turned up her nose , and she looked a squoy , You might have been wiser she straight did reply ; This was all the comfort that I god from she , That always pretended my friend for to be . TO Herefore all youngmen that loves the Alebench Some counsel i'll give them before they go hence ; If thou sittest day and night , & amp ; drinkest never so fast Yet thou'lt find thy own home is the best at last : It is but for your money they wait you upon , And when that is wanting you're lightly looked on ; If she sees but twopence you run on the score , She'l swear by her troth she will trust you no more Then have a care youngmen , be ruled in time , Lest drink overcome thee , in old days you pine : For you see Good-fellows how threadbare they go And what good-husbandry brings a man to ; For some lives most bravely though means they have small , And some that had hun [ worser ] reds do quickly spend all ; Then make much of a Penny as near as you can , For if that be wanting thou'rt counted no man . It's money you see makes a Lord , or yet Earl , It's money you see that sets out a young Girl ; Likewise it's money makes the Lawyer to prate , & amp ; it's money does make the man love his wife Kate And it's money breeds love where never was none . Although she be old , yet money makes her young : A Knight or a Beggar , whatever they be If they have but money they're welcome to me . Thus money you see , and do well understand , If a poor man can but get it , he buys house and land But it must not be those that works hard all day , And at night in and Alehouse does throw it away . Nay , that will not serve , but twice as much more If his word it will pass , he runs on the score ; Then all the week after , though then he don't heed He wants breadcorn his poor children to feed . Therefore be advised boon Companions all , For you see the world's so they laugh at a men fallen With speed your old haunts pray begin for to shun Take warning by others the which are undone : You'll say a goodfellow it is a brave name , But many a man does pay dear for the same : The which hath all spent , now in Goal he does lie , And none will relieve him of his poverty . But some men have god such a spark in their throat That I would not be him that should quenched for a groat ; All the fair words his wife can him give , Yet he'l not be ruled though poor he does live : Hang money he cries , till all oned is gone , As for house and Land I mean to buy none ; I must see my Hostis to go neat and fine , Although that my family does starve and pine . And thus have I told you the conditions of some , That all long of strong liquour will never keep home His stock it decays , although his wife cries , And in the conclusion a beggar he die : but a good husband's means you see does increase He maintains his household in joy and in peace ; Then make much of a penny as near as you can , For if that be wanting , thou'lt be counted no man FINIS With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , . Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . This Money that makes a Man : OR , The Good-Fellows Folly . Here in this Song Good-Fellow thou mayest find , How Money makes a Man , if thou'rt not blind ? Therefore return ever that it be too late , And don't on Strumpets spend thy whole estate , For when all is gone , no better thou wilt be : But Laughed to scorn in all thy poverty . To a pleasant new Tune : Bonny black Bess : Or , Digby . By J. Wade . O H what a madness it's to borrow or lend , Or for strong Liquour thy money to spend ; For when that is wanting thy courage is cool , Thou must stand Cap in hand to every fool : but if thy pockets can jingle they will take thy word O then thou art company for Knight or yet Lord : Then make much of a Penny as near as you can , For if that be wanting thou'rt counted no man . Then listen a while and i'll tell you in brief , The most of my sorrow , my care , and my grief ; I had and estate I'll make it appear , Beside all my stock , was worth fifty a year : But so soon as I to drinking then fell , My Land I then Mortgaged , my Cattle did fell ; No sooner the money I for them had took , But it went to the Alehouse i'll swear on a book . Thus in a short time my money did waste , And I found my self not a pin better at last ; While other Tradesmen were working full hard , I from and Alehouse could not be debarred ; There would I fit tippling day after day , And my Wife she unto me full often would say , Make much of a Penny as near as you can , For if that be wanting thou'lt be counted no man . But the words that she spoke i'd regard not a straw But would kick her & amp ; beatrice her , & amp ; keep her in awe ; My children at home might eat the bore wall , While I in and Alehouse for strong liquour did call : And my Hostis forsooth must needs fit on my knee though my wife she hath twice more beauty than she Yet that would not please my lecherous mind , Because for my Money my Hostis was kind . But in conclusion here comes all my care , My back it grew thin , and my pockets grew bore ; Then I told my Hostis my pitiful tale , In hope's that my sorrows she would bewail : But she turned up her nose , and she looked a squoy , You might have been wiser she straight did reply ; This was all the comfort that I god from she , That always pretended my friend for to be . TO Herefore all youngmen that loves the Alebench Some counsel i'll give them before they go hence ; If thou sittest day and night , & amp ; drinkest never so fast Yet thou'lt find thy own home is the best at last : It is but for your money they wait you upon , And when that is wanting you're lightly looked on ; If she sees but twopence you run on the score , She'l swear by her troth she will trust you no more Then have a care youngmen , be ruled in time , Lest drink overcome thee , in old days you pine : For you see Good-fellows how threadbare they go And what good-husbandry brings a man to ; For some lives most bravely though means they have small , And some that had hun [ worser ] reds do quickly spend all ; Then make much of a Penny as near as you can , For if that be wanting thou'rt counted no man . It's money you see makes a Lord , or yet Earl , It's money you see that sets out a young Girl ; Likewise it's money makes the Lawyer to prate , & amp ; it's money does make the man love his wife Kate And it's money breeds love where never was none . Although she be old , yet money makes her young : A Knight or a Beggar , whatever they be If they have but money they're welcome to me . Thus money you see , and do well understand , If a poor man can but get it , he buys house and land But it must not be those that works hard all day , And at night in and Alehouse does throw it away . Nay , that will not serve , but twice as much more If his word it will pass , he runs on the score ; Then all the week after , though then he don't heed He wants breadcorn his poor children to feed . Therefore be advised boon Companions all , For you see the world's so they laugh at a men fallen With speed your old haunts pray begin for to shun Take warning by others the which are undone : You'll say a goodfellow it is a brave name , But many a man does pay dear for the same : The which hath all spent , now in Goal he does lie , And none will relieve him of his poverty . But some men have god such a spark in their throat That I would not be him that should quenched for a groat ; All the fair words his wife can him give , Yet he'l not be ruled though poor he does live : Hang money he cries , till all oned is gone , As for house and Land I mean to buy none ; I must see my Hostis to go neat and fine , Although that my family does starve and pine . And thus have I told you the conditions of some , That all long of strong liquour will never keep home His stock it decays , although his wife cries , And in the conclusion a beggar he die : but a good husband's means you see does increase He maintains his household in joy and in peace ; Then make much of a penny as near as you can , For if that be wanting , thou'lt be counted no man FINIS With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , . Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 