THE Wondered Praise of Money : Or ; And Account of the many Evils that attend the ill Use thereof . Money when Used , and not Abuseed , will do Men good , we know : But when they shall Consume it all , it proves their Overthrow . Tune of , The Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. W Ill you know why the Old Misers adore their Coffers of ill-gotten Treasure ? Always a gripping and grinding the Poor , until he has Wealth out of measure : Because he had nothing else he can trust , he seldom is found any Spender ; But in his Troubles away to his Chest , thus Money is all his defender . He that is with a great plenty possessed , how ought he to honour and prize it ; Being a thing that is much in request , and there is but few that despise it : For there is none can live without it , it's counted more sweeter than Honey , For if a Man should have never so much Wit , he cannot buy Land without Money . Mind but the Story which here I have Penned , and then you will find the Conclusion , Money , that many times proves a Man's Friend , as often it makes a Confusion : Yet when a Man shall meet with a Foe , whose looks are as sour as Sorrel , And shall supply him with many a dry Blow , this Money will end all the Quarrel . For when the Duel is over and passed , and both are resolved to be Merry , Then to the Tavern they hurry at last , where over a Glass of Canary , Love they unite , the anger's forgotten , their hearts are as light as a Feather , But it was Money that paid their Shot , which brought them so loving together . S Ome that have Money will Traverse the Law , for good they will never be doing , But labour always to keep Men in awe , never pleased with nothing but Ruin : Passionate Men will trouble increase , for Malice is always in actium , Money that oftentimes makes the Peace , as often does cause a Distraction , Some Men they will be with Money high-flown , as having not Wisdom to use it , Then it were better they never had none , then have it and highly abuse it : For when a Man meets one that is fair , who calls him her joy and her Honey , He may be cunningly catched in a Snare , and all for the sake of his Money . But the true valve will further appear , then hath in this present Relation , Soldiers for Money will Fight without fear , and vanquish the Foes of the Nation : Like Loyal Souls , they scorn for to fly , therefore we have cause to adore them , Give them but Money they'll Fight till they die , or cut down and clear all before them . Thus having told you what Money can do , and likewise the Evils attend it , Yet among Soldiers there is but a few , but what will as willingly spend it : Each with his Lass then seldom is sad , but many fine Nick-nacks afford her , Because too much Money will make a Man Mad , each hates to be counted a hoarder . Money we find is a delicate thing , by every Person required , Therefore my Customers , if you will bring this , then I have what I desired : Every one which is in the Throng , if kindnesses you will show any ; Pray now be willing to Buy this New Song , the Price of it is but a Penny . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . THE Wondered Praise of Money : Or ; And Account of the many Evils that attend the ill Use thereof . Money when Used , and not Abuseed , will do Men good , we know : But when they shall Consume it all , it proves their Overthrow . Tune of , The Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. W Ill you know why the Old Misers adore their Coffers of ill-gotten Treasure ? Always a gripping and grinding the Poor , until he has Wealth out of measure : Because he had nothing else he can trust , he seldom is found any Spender ; But in his Troubles away to his Chest , thus Money is all his defender . He that is with a great plenty possessed , how ought he to honour and prize it ; Being a thing that is much in request , and there is but few that despise it : For there is none can live without it , it's counted more sweeter than Honey , For if a Man should have never so much Wit , he cannot buy Land without Money . Mind but the Story which here I have Penned , and then you will find the Conclusion , Money , that many times proves a Man's Friend , as often it makes a Confusion : Yet when a Man shall meet with a Foe , whose looks are as sour as Sorrel , And shall supply him with many a dry Blow , this Money will end all the Quarrel . For when the Duel is over and passed , and both are resolved to be Merry , Then to the Tavern they hurry at last , where over a Glass of Canary , Love they unite , the anger's forgotten , their hearts are as light as a Feather , But it was Money that paid their Shot , which brought them so loving together . S Ome that have Money will Traverse the Law , for good they will never be doing , But labour always to keep Men in awe , never pleased with nothing but Ruin : Passionate Men will trouble increase , for Malice is always in actium , Money that oftentimes makes the Peace , as often does cause a Distraction , Some Men they will be with Money high-flown , as having not Wisdom to use it , Then it were better they never had none , then have it and highly abuse it : For when a Man meets one that is fair , who calls him her joy and her Honey , He may be cunningly catched in a Snare , and all for the sake of his Money . But the true valve will further appear , then hath in this present Relation , Soldiers for Money will Fight without fear , and vanquish the Foes of the Nation : Like Loyal Souls , they scorn for to fly , therefore we have cause to adore them , Give them but Money they'll Fight till they die , or cut down and clear all before them . Thus having told you what Money can do , and likewise the Evils attend it , Yet among Soldiers there is but a few , but what will as willingly spend it : Each with his Lass then seldom is sad , but many fine Nick-nacks afford her , Because too much Money will make a Man Mad , each hates to be counted a hoarder . Money we find is a delicate thing , by every Person required , Therefore my Customers , if you will bring this , then I have what I desired : Every one which is in the Throng , if kindnesses you will show any ; Pray now be willing to Buy this New Song , the Price of it is but a Penny . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . 