Looking-Glass for Drunkards . Or , The Good-Fellows Folly . Moderately Deproving all such as practice the Beastly since of Inordinate and Excessive Tippling : With and Admonition for the future to forbear the same . To the Tune of , Fie , Dutchmen , fie ! WORSER Runkards how dare you boast of your hard drinking ? think you there is neither heaven nor hell ? While you do headlong post , to the pit sinking : you take no care , but think all things is well : Oh fie ! forb [ e ] are , it's a since that will cry ; And pierce the clouds and the heavens so high : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Late in the Tavern where I had occasion , to drink my part of a pint with a friend , Being overcome by his subtle persuasion , & amp ; stayed the longer some business to end : I saw a drunken crew in the room by , Swearing and tearing and rending the sye , fie , Drunkards , fie ! Some were caroussing , while others were singing , others like sots lay dead drunk on the floor , Some at their fellows Glasses were slinging , another a vomiting behind the door : Such a confusions I never did espy , M en in their shape but like beasts they did lie : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Drawers says one bring us Pottles in plenty , let us not want , whatsoever we score ; I'll make them every one drunk were they twenty , or else i'll never drink Sack any more : Fill more Tobacco another did cry , Time is but short , then our wor k let us ply : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Fiddlers strike up amain , why are you drowsy ? are you already drunk , you sons for whores ? Why do you shrug so as if you were Rowsie ? play or i'll kick you all out of the doors : With such base language they still did reply , Sirrah fill Liquour for I am dry : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! When with Canary their heads were inflamed , then down they tumble over Chairs & amp ; over stools , Yet never felt how their bodies were maimed . they were so sottishly drunk and such fools , Then up and at it , we here must not lie , Fill us more liquour again they do cry . Fie , Drunkards , fie ! The second Part , to the same Tune . TO Hen by and by they begin for to quarrel , as it is usual among such a rout ; Having drunk more then enough by a Barrel . Flaggons and Pots they must now fly about : Reeling and staggering thus they would cry : Zounds if thou kills me thou surely shalt die : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Run call a Constable Boy , quoth the Master , to take and order with this same mad crew ; I will take care they shall be locked up faster , in a strong Prison , since it is their endue : Where they like Rats till the morning must lie , Every one flouting as they do pass by : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! O what a shame it is , men of good breeding , should be besotted and so led a [ w ] ay : While your concerns and estates lies a bleeding , you never consider but thus go astray : Beside offending the Lord that's on high , You take a course to be poor ever you die . Fie , Drunkards , fie ! What will you do when your pockets are drained , and all your coin is consumed in drink ; How shall your family thus be maintained ? who shall provide for you then do you think ? Leave off in time , and such tippling defy , And God will bless you the better , say I . Fie , Drunards , fie ! I only speak to all those that abuse it , it's not to all that my lines I direct ; Men may be merry , and yet may not use it , for to be drunk , or occasion neglect : But there's so many from thence will not lie , That unto such I am forced to cry , Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Now to conclude , I should be highly pleased , if in this Glass their own forms they would view ; Before that folly too much hath them seized , and at the last they are forced to rue , Consider rightly , and cast it not by , And then hereafter I need not to cry , Fie , Drunkards , fie . FINIS . Printed for R.B. and sold by F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Looking-Glass for Drunkards . Or , The Good-Fellows Folly . Moderately Deproving all such as practice the Beastly since of Inordinate and Excessive Tippling : With and Admonition for the future to forbear the same . To the Tune of , Fie , Dutchmen , fie ! WORSER Runkards how dare you boast of your hard drinking ? think you there is neither heaven nor hell ? While you do headlong post , to the pit sinking : you take no care , but think all things is well : Oh fie ! forb [ e ] are , it's a since that will cry ; And pierce the clouds and the heavens so high : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Late in the Tavern where I had occasion , to drink my part of a pint with a friend , Being overcome by his subtle persuasion , & amp ; stayed the longer some business to end : I saw a drunken crew in the room by , Swearing and tearing and rending the sye , fie , Drunkards , fie ! Some were caroussing , while others were singing , others like sots lay dead drunk on the floor , Some at their fellows Glasses were slinging , another a vomiting behind the door : Such a confusions I never did espy , M en in their shape but like beasts they did lie : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Drawers says one bring us Pottles in plenty , let us not want , whatsoever we score ; I'll make them every one drunk were they twenty , or else i'll never drink Sack any more : Fill more Tobacco another did cry , Time is but short , then our wor k let us ply : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Fiddlers strike up amain , why are you drowsy ? are you already drunk , you sons for whores ? Why do you shrug so as if you were Rowsie ? play or i'll kick you all out of the doors : With such base language they still did reply , Sirrah fill Liquour for I am dry : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! When with Canary their heads were inflamed , then down they tumble over Chairs & amp ; over stools , Yet never felt how their bodies were maimed . they were so sottishly drunk and such fools , Then up and at it , we here must not lie , Fill us more liquour again they do cry . Fie , Drunkards , fie ! The second Part , to the same Tune . TO Hen by and by they begin for to quarrel , as it is usual among such a rout ; Having drunk more then enough by a Barrel . Flaggons and Pots they must now fly about : Reeling and staggering thus they would cry : Zounds if thou kills me thou surely shalt die : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Run call a Constable Boy , quoth the Master , to take and order with this same mad crew ; I will take care they shall be locked up faster , in a strong Prison , since it is their endue : Where they like Rats till the morning must lie , Every one flouting as they do pass by : Fie , Drunkards , fie ! O what a shame it is , men of good breeding , should be besotted and so led a [ w ] ay : While your concerns and estates lies a bleeding , you never consider but thus go astray : Beside offending the Lord that's on high , You take a course to be poor ever you die . Fie , Drunkards , fie ! What will you do when your pockets are drained , and all your coin is consumed in drink ; How shall your family thus be maintained ? who shall provide for you then do you think ? Leave off in time , and such tippling defy , And God will bless you the better , say I . Fie , Drunards , fie ! I only speak to all those that abuse it , it's not to all that my lines I direct ; Men may be merry , and yet may not use it , for to be drunk , or occasion neglect : But there's so many from thence will not lie , That unto such I am forced to cry , Fie , Drunkards , fie ! Now to conclude , I should be highly pleased , if in this Glass their own forms they would view ; Before that folly too much hath them seized , and at the last they are forced to rue , Consider rightly , and cast it not by , And then hereafter I need not to cry , Fie , Drunkards , fie . FINIS . Printed for R.B. and sold by F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 