The BEGGARS Song , Both in City and Country . Showing the Contentedness of their Lives , the little Care they take , and how Merrily they Live , To the Tune of , O , how they did Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , under the Greenwood Tree . This may be Printed , R.P. I N Summer time when Men make Hay we walk into the Fields , And spend our time in seeing what , dame Nature unto us yields : If we do spy something we like , we pluck and do not spare , Till we are fully satisfied , and every one takes a share . And when we meet with Water clear , we use it for our Drink , There's none who lives so Merry Lives , as we I verily think : For we do pass from Town to Town , but for a time we stay , lest the Magistrates hear of us , and Whip us thence away . When we pass by and Orchard brave , we think it is no since ; Some of that dainty Fruit to pluck , if that we can get in : Sometime a Mastiff Dog comes out , and frights us very soar , And if that we do get from him , we never come there no more . Sometime we pass hard by a Barn door , where little fat Piggs do feed , We cut the Throat of one of them , to serve us at our need : And then we go to another Town , where we may have it dressed , And then to please the Landlady , we give her of the best . Sometime we meet with Geese and Hens , and sometime with a fat Duck , When they are killed we fit under some Hedge , and then their Feathers pluck : And then we walk to another Town , and do as we did with the Pigg , We Laugh and Sing most Merrily , to think on this pleasant Jig . There is no Lord within this Land , lives half so merry as we , We take no care for Meat nor Drink , for what we get is free : Sometime we lie within a Barn , or under a thick Hedge , And when we can fair Water get , we do each other Pledge . Thus we spend the Summer time , in Mirth and Jollitty , And when we come to fair London , then Mumpers we will be : For we are so Lazy we cannot Work , there is other ways to gain , Sometime we are Blind , or else we are Deaf , or else we feign to be Lame . When we unto our good Houses do go , we get good pieces of Meat , Which we do put within a clean Bag , to keep it clean and sweet : And as we pass from Door to Door , we do some Farthings take , And they will serve to quench our Thirst , when we a Resting make . When we have Traveled all the day , and then come home at night , We can our Wives and Children Treat , with joy and great Delight ; And then we do our Farthings send , to the Alehouse for Strong Beer , So do we live , and Merry are , with this our dainty Cheer . Our Wives they do take care for Rend , by Spinning , or such work , While we do Ramble all the day , and in some Corners lurk ; To get a Farthing here and there , as Providence does give , The Housekeeper does take more care , then we do for to Live . Thus have you here the Beggars Life , the little Care they have , They do not study for their Back , to keep it fine and brave ; For that would spoil their Begging Trade , no pity would any take ; They then might Travel all the day and not a good Market make . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The BEGGARS Song , Both in City and Country . Showing the Contentedness of their Lives , the little Care they take , and how Merrily they Live , To the Tune of , O , how they did Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , under the Greenwood Tree . This may be Printed , R.P. I N Summer time when Men make Hay we walk into the Fields , And spend our time in seeing what , dame Nature unto us yields : If we do spy something we like , we pluck and do not spare , Till we are fully satisfied , and every one takes a share . And when we meet with Water clear , we use it for our Drink , There's none who lives so Merry Lives , as we I verily think : For we do pass from Town to Town , but for a time we stay , lest the Magistrates hear of us , and Whip us thence away . When we pass by and Orchard brave , we think it is no since ; Some of that dainty Fruit to pluck , if that we can get in : Sometime a Mastiff Dog comes out , and frights us very soar , And if that we do get from him , we never come there no more . Sometime we pass hard by a Barn door , where little fat Piggs do feed , We cut the Throat of one of them , to serve us at our need : And then we go to another Town , where we may have it dressed , And then to please the Landlady , we give her of the best . Sometime we meet with Geese and Hens , and sometime with a fat Duck , When they are killed we fit under some Hedge , and then their Feathers pluck : And then we walk to another Town , and do as we did with the Pigg , We Laugh and Sing most Merrily , to think on this pleasant Jig . There is no Lord within this Land , lives half so merry as we , We take no care for Meat nor Drink , for what we get is free : Sometime we lie within a Barn , or under a thick Hedge , And when we can fair Water get , we do each other Pledge . Thus we spend the Summer time , in Mirth and Jollitty , And when we come to fair London , then Mumpers we will be : For we are so Lazy we cannot Work , there is other ways to gain , Sometime we are Blind , or else we are Deaf , or else we feign to be Lame . When we unto our good Houses do go , we get good pieces of Meat , Which we do put within a clean Bag , to keep it clean and sweet : And as we pass from Door to Door , we do some Farthings take , And they will serve to quench our Thirst , when we a Resting make . When we have Traveled all the day , and then come home at night , We can our Wives and Children Treat , with joy and great Delight ; And then we do our Farthings send , to the Alehouse for Strong Beer , So do we live , and Merry are , with this our dainty Cheer . Our Wives they do take care for Rend , by Spinning , or such work , While we do Ramble all the day , and in some Corners lurk ; To get a Farthing here and there , as Providence does give , The Housekeeper does take more care , then we do for to Live . Thus have you here the Beggars Life , the little Care they have , They do not study for their Back , to keep it fine and brave ; For that would spoil their Begging Trade , no pity would any take ; They then might Travel all the day and not a good Market make . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 