The Skilful DOCTOR ; Or , The Complete Mountebank . Good people give ear to me , that stand within the Throng , And you shall hear a Story strange of a Doctor that is come . Strange Courages he does undertake , and he does come from Spain , If a Maid has lost her Maidenhead , he can help her to it again . To the Tune of , Over the Mountains . By R. P ilkington . C Ome here you brave Gallants , of Fame and Renown , Here is a brave Doctor , that is new come to town : He hath been in Holland , in France and in Spain , And he can help a Maid to her Maidenhead again . All other Diseases , I likewise can cure , The which young Women , they much do endure . Therefore come unto me , you that are not wed For the chief of my skill is , to cure your Maidenhead . I have been at Dover , at Barwick likewise , In F rance and in F landers , my skill they much prize ; All sorts of young Women , will me entertain , Because I do help them to their Maidenheads again . I have been at Glascow , and S cotland throughout , Where M oggy and J enny for joy they did shout ; There is not such a Doctor , in all Scotland does remain , Now M oggy and Jenny are Maidens again . Throughout the whole Nation , and Country about , My Fame it is known , to Turkey quite out : Then take your opportunity , while here I do remain , For when I am gone , you would wish me here again . The Doctor is Famous Cures . I Must have a fat Over , that was hatched in and Egg , Likewise a quick Ass that has never a Leg , A Swan with five Legs , you must fetch me from S pain , And then I can help you to your M aiden-heads again . I must have and Oak that in Norway did grow , I must have a Fat Buck , that was Pigged by a Sow , I must have and Eagle , hatched under and Hen , And then I can help you , to your , etc I must have a Cuckoo , that at Christmass did cry , I must have a young Swal [ low ] that in M arch did fly , And Egg of and Ant-pie , you must fetch me from Sp [ ain ] And then I can help you , to your , etc When they in Virginia . no Tobacco can plant , When at P aris in F rance , holy-Water is scant , When there is not a Tory in Ireland do remain , Oh then you shall all become M aidens , etc When there is no division , betwixt Church and State , When old Wives speak reason and Hens cannot crake : When the arrant Dissembler truth to all Men do mean , Oh then you will all become M aidens , etc When the Cat she can speak , both Latin and Greek ; And the Monkey does teach her to Write and to Read : And the Fox comes to tell them their labours in vain , The you will all become M aidens again . And now all young Maids , I you do advice , What ever you do , to be merry and wise : Keep close to your Maidenheads while they do remain , F or when they are gone , you'll never see them again . This may be Printed . R.P. Printed for J. Conyers , at the Golden-Ring , upon Ludgate-Hill , over against the Old-Baily . The Skilful DOCTOR ; Or , The Complete Mountebank . Good people give ear to me , that stand within the Throng , And you shall hear a Story strange of a Doctor that is come . Strange Courages he does undertake , and he does come from Spain , If a Maid has lost her Maidenhead , he can help her to it again . To the Tune of , Over the Mountains . By R. P ilkington . C Ome here you brave Gallants , of Fame and Renown , Here is a brave Doctor , that is new come to town : He hath been in Holland , in France and in Spain , And he can help a Maid to her Maidenhead again . All other Diseases , I likewise can cure , The which young Women , they much do endure . Therefore come unto me , you that are not wed For the chief of my skill is , to cure your Maidenhead . I have been at Dover , at Barwick likewise , In F rance and in F landers , my skill they much prize ; All sorts of young Women , will me entertain , Because I do help them to their Maidenheads again . I have been at Glascow , and S cotland throughout , Where M oggy and J enny for joy they did shout ; There is not such a Doctor , in all Scotland does remain , Now M oggy and Jenny are Maidens again . Throughout the whole Nation , and Country about , My Fame it is known , to Turkey quite out : Then take your opportunity , while here I do remain , For when I am gone , you would wish me here again . The Doctor is Famous Cures . I Must have a fat Over , that was hatched in and Egg , Likewise a quick Ass that has never a Leg , A Swan with five Legs , you must fetch me from S pain , And then I can help you to your M aiden-heads again . I must have and Oak that in Norway did grow , I must have a Fat Buck , that was Pigged by a Sow , I must have and Eagle , hatched under and Hen , And then I can help you , to your , etc I must have a Cuckoo , that at Christmass did cry , I must have a young Swal [ low ] that in M arch did fly , And Egg of and Ant-pie , you must fetch me from Sp [ ain ] And then I can help you , to your , etc When they in Virginia . no Tobacco can plant , When at P aris in F rance , holy-Water is scant , When there is not a Tory in Ireland do remain , Oh then you shall all become M aidens , etc When there is no division , betwixt Church and State , When old Wives speak reason and Hens cannot crake : When the arrant Dissembler truth to all Men do mean , Oh then you will all become M aidens , etc When the Cat she can speak , both Latin and Greek ; And the Monkey does teach her to Write and to Read : And the Fox comes to tell them their labours in vain , The you will all become M aidens again . And now all young Maids , I you do advice , What ever you do , to be merry and wise : Keep close to your Maidenheads while they do remain , F or when they are gone , you'll never see them again . This may be Printed . R.P. Printed for J. Conyers , at the Golden-Ring , upon Ludgate-Hill , over against the Old-Baily . 