Wit never ought , till it be bought ; & amp ; then it is stark nought . OR The Spendthrifts Recantation . That spent his Means in such a wasteful fashion He sold his land & amp ; goods & amp ; let his money fly , Come fill us in ten dozen what care I He neither cares for Children nor for Wife So long as money could be god he lives that life , Now at last that he has spent his store He does repent his wasteful life before ; He works & amp ; takes great pains now all his Life , For to maintain his Children and his Wife ; He desires that he and example be to all And every one take warning by his fallen . The Tune of the Bad Husband's Folly , or , Come hither my own sweet Duck . O F all the spendthrifts in this Land I am the worst you see If you do but understand To take warning all by me A Man may be a good fellow And not to make away all To mind the Beer so much in the Cellar , That hath brought Me to this thrall , B ut if ever I do get money again I will save some in store , To keep better Clothes upon my back I never will go so poor . That Man thats always drinking among the drunken Crew His estate must needs be sinking Without any more ado ; That I might be and example To all that go astray , That every Man may mend his life And be warned by me this day For If ever I do get money again . etc , I had a fine Estate of Land of my one Was worth fifty pound a year That my Father he did leave me For I was his only Heir , I sold and I mortgaged it all away And made myself so poor , My Wife and my Friends could not rule me I kept drinking on so soar But if ever I do get money again , etc I came unto my Hostess And called for liquour apace She saw my money was plenty Then she smiled in my Face , If I said fill a Flagon She set two upon the score She slabered and kissed and sat on my Knee , A Pox on her then for a Whore . But if ever I do get money again I will save some in store , To keep better Clothes upon my back , I never will go so poor . The second Part to the same Tune . I rambled up and down And I let my money fly While my Wife was ready to break her heart To hear her Children cry For she was almost pined and starved Their want it was so soar , And their nakedness they scarce could hide Their poverty was so poor But if ever I do get money again , etc At two a clock i'th morning I would come drunken home If my Wife but chance to speak a word I would kick her about the room And call her Bitch and Whore I'de abuse my one dear Wife I was a Villain for my pains To live such a wicked life But if ever I do get money again The I god a Surfeit and lay sick And lay twenty weeks and more But never and Alewife in my need Would come within my door , But my poor Wife was my best Friend Though I had been bad with her before She suckered me unto the end And of me she took great care But if I get strength and Money again , My Wife she sold the Sheets from her Bed , And she pawned he Wedding Ring To relieve me in my Misery To get my Health again , Oh was not I woeful Man To spend away my store To let my Wife & amp ; Children want at home , I was a knave therefore , If ever I do get money again . When I began get strength to mend a little I walked to take the air , And as I went along the Town I came by my Hostises door I asked her for to trust me two pence But she denied me like a Whore , The money that I have spent with her Does grieve me very soar if ever I do get money again As soon as I get my Health again I'll call to work apace To maintain my Wife and Children For my Hostises are base I see who is a men best Friend If he be sick or soar They'll draw a Man to consume his means Then after they do not care If ever I do get money again , etc , If I get any thing under my hand again . I'll learn to be more wise I'll never be ruled by the drunken Crew That tickled me up with lies And carry my money home to my Wife , To mend my Children's fare I have paid for my wit to mend my Life , For to have a better Care . If I do get money again . He runs a long raze that never has end Good People understand Let every one be ruled by their Friend , I say quite through this Land For wilful waste comes often to want With me and a great many more But the greatest grief I have wronged my wife Which troubles me wondrous soar If ever I do get money again , And so i'll have you understand Good People every one I lost my time and spent my money The more I was to blame But yet I wish all others may Take warning now by me Here is a Groatsworth of wit if you look in it Come buy this Ballad and see , If ever I do get money again , I wlll save some in Store And keep a better House & amp ; Clothes on our backs I will never live so poor . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black-Raven the first shop in Fetter-Lane next Holborn . Where all Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of small Books and Ballads . Wit never ought , till it be bought ; & amp ; then it is stark nought . OR The Spendthrifts Recantation . That spent his Means in such a wasteful fashion He sold his land & amp ; goods & amp ; let his money fly , Come fill us in ten dozen what care I He neither cares for Children nor for Wife So long as money could be god he lives that life , Now at last that he has spent his store He does repent his wasteful life before ; He works & amp ; takes great pains now all his Life , For to maintain his Children and his Wife ; He desires that he and example be to all And every one take warning by his fallen . The Tune of the Bad Husband's Folly , or , Come hither my own sweet Duck . O F all the spendthrifts in this Land I am the worst you see If you do but understand To take warning all by me A Man may be a good fellow And not to make away all To mind the Beer so much in the Cellar , That hath brought Me to this thrall , B ut if ever I do get money again I will save some in store , To keep better Clothes upon my back I never will go so poor . That Man thats always drinking among the drunken Crew His estate must needs be sinking Without any more ado ; That I might be and example To all that go astray , That every Man may mend his life And be warned by me this day For If ever I do get money again . etc , I had a fine Estate of Land of my one Was worth fifty pound a year That my Father he did leave me For I was his only Heir , I sold and I mortgaged it all away And made myself so poor , My Wife and my Friends could not rule me I kept drinking on so soar But if ever I do get money again , etc I came unto my Hostess And called for liquour apace She saw my money was plenty Then she smiled in my Face , If I said fill a Flagon She set two upon the score She slabered and kissed and sat on my Knee , A Pox on her then for a Whore . But if ever I do get money again I will save some in store , To keep better Clothes upon my back , I never will go so poor . The second Part to the same Tune . I rambled up and down And I let my money fly While my Wife was ready to break her heart To hear her Children cry For she was almost pined and starved Their want it was so soar , And their nakedness they scarce could hide Their poverty was so poor But if ever I do get money again , etc At two a clock i'th morning I would come drunken home If my Wife but chance to speak a word I would kick her about the room And call her Bitch and Whore I'de abuse my one dear Wife I was a Villain for my pains To live such a wicked life But if ever I do get money again The I god a Surfeit and lay sick And lay twenty weeks and more But never and Alewife in my need Would come within my door , But my poor Wife was my best Friend Though I had been bad with her before She suckered me unto the end And of me she took great care But if I get strength and Money again , My Wife she sold the Sheets from her Bed , And she pawned he Wedding Ring To relieve me in my Misery To get my Health again , Oh was not I woeful Man To spend away my store To let my Wife & amp ; Children want at home , I was a knave therefore , If ever I do get money again . When I began get strength to mend a little I walked to take the air , And as I went along the Town I came by my Hostises door I asked her for to trust me two pence But she denied me like a Whore , The money that I have spent with her Does grieve me very soar if ever I do get money again As soon as I get my Health again I'll call to work apace To maintain my Wife and Children For my Hostises are base I see who is a men best Friend If he be sick or soar They'll draw a Man to consume his means Then after they do not care If ever I do get money again , etc , If I get any thing under my hand again . I'll learn to be more wise I'll never be ruled by the drunken Crew That tickled me up with lies And carry my money home to my Wife , To mend my Children's fare I have paid for my wit to mend my Life , For to have a better Care . If I do get money again . He runs a long raze that never has end Good People understand Let every one be ruled by their Friend , I say quite through this Land For wilful waste comes often to want With me and a great many more But the greatest grief I have wronged my wife Which troubles me wondrous soar If ever I do get money again , And so i'll have you understand Good People every one I lost my time and spent my money The more I was to blame But yet I wish all others may Take warning now by me Here is a Groatsworth of wit if you look in it Come buy this Ballad and see , If ever I do get money again , I wlll save some in Store And keep a better House & amp ; Clothes on our backs I will never live so poor . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black-Raven the first shop in Fetter-Lane next Holborn . Where all Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of small Books and Ballads . 