The bonny Blacksmith's delight : OR , A Noble Song in praise of the Blacksmiths . Setting forth the excellency of their Trade , the rareness of their qualities , their love to their Friends , and their kindness to their Neighbours . To a dainty new Tune , called , No body can deny . O F all the Trades that ever I see , There's none to the Black-Smith compared may be Which so many several tools Works he , which no body can deny . The first that ever Thunderbolts made , Was a Cyclops of the Blacksmiths Trade , As in a learned Author is said , which no body can deny . Then thundering like we strike about , The fire like lightning flashes out , Which suddenly with water we doubt , which no body can deny . The fairest Goddess in the skies , To marry with Vulcan did advice , And he was a Blacksmith grave and wise , which no body can deny . Vulcan he to do her right , Did built her a Town by day and by night and gave it a name which was Hammersmith height , which no body can deny . Vulcan farther did acquaint her , That a pretty estate he would appoint her , And leave her Seacoal-lane for a Jointer , which no body can deny . And that no Enemy might wrong her , He built her a Fort you'd wish no stronger , Which was the Lane of Ironmonger , which no body can deny . Smithfield he did cleanse from dirt , And sure there was great reason fored , For there he meant she should keep her Court , which no body can deny . But after in a good time or tide , It was by the Blacksmith rectified , To the honour of Edmond Ironside , which no body can deny . Vulcan after made a Train , Wherein the God of War was taken , Which ever since hath been called Pals-chain , which no body can deny . The common Proverb as it is read , That a man must hit the nail on the head , Without the Blacksmith cannot be said , which no body can deny . Another Proverb must not be forgotten , And falls unto the Blacksmith's lot , That a man must strike while the Iron is hight , which no body can deny . Another comes in most proper and fit , The Blacksmiths justice is seen in it , When you give a man roast , and beatrice him with the spit , which no body can deny . A Nother comes in our Blacksmiths way , When things are safe as old Wives say , We have them under lock and key , which no body can deny . Another that's in the Blacksmiths books , And only to him for remedy looks , Is when a man's quite off the hooks , which no body can deny . Another Proverb to him does belong , And therefore let's doe the Blacksmith no wrong When a man's held hard tooed buckle and thong which no body can deny . Another Proverb does make me laugh , Wherein the Blacksmith may challenge half , When a reason's as plain as a Pikestaff , which no body can deny . Though your Lawyers travel both near & amp ; far , And by long pleading a good cause may mar , Yet your Blacksmiths takes more pains at the bar , which no body can deny . Though your Scriveners seek to crush & amp ; to kill , By his counterfeit deeds and thereby does ill , Yet your Blacksmith he may forge what he will which no body can deny . though your bankrupt citizens lurk in their holes and laugh at their creditors & amp ; their catchpoles Yet your Blacksmith can fetch them over the coals which no body can deny . Though Jockey in the Stable be never so neat , To look to his Nag , and prescribe him his meat Yet your Blacksmith knows better how to give a heat , which no body can deny . If any Taylor have the Itch The Blacksmiths water as black as pitch Will make his hands go through stitch , which no body can deny . There's never a slut if filth o're-smuch her , But ows to the Blacksmith for her letchor , for without a pair of tongue's there's no man will touch her which no body can deny . Your roaring boys who every one quails , Fights , Domineers , Swagers and Rails , Could never yet make the smith eat his nails , which no body can deny . If any Scholar be in a doubt , And cannot well bring his matter about , The Blacksmith he can hammer it out , which no body can deny . Now if to know him you would desire , You must not scorn but rank him higher , For what he gets is out of the fire , which no body can deny . Now here's a good health to Blacksmiths all And let it go round , as round as a ball , We'll drink it off though it cost us a fallen , which no body can deny . London , Printed for P. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The bonny Blacksmith's delight : OR , A Noble Song in praise of the Blacksmiths . Setting forth the excellency of their Trade , the rareness of their qualities , their love to their Friends , and their kindness to their Neighbours . To a dainty new Tune , called , No body can deny . O F all the Trades that ever I see , There's none to the Black-Smith compared may be Which so many several tools Works he , which no body can deny . The first that ever Thunderbolts made , Was a Cyclops of the Blacksmiths Trade , As in a learned Author is said , which no body can deny . Then thundering like we strike about , The fire like lightning flashes out , Which suddenly with water we doubt , which no body can deny . The fairest Goddess in the skies , To marry with Vulcan did advice , And he was a Blacksmith grave and wise , which no body can deny . Vulcan he to do her right , Did built her a Town by day and by night and gave it a name which was Hammersmith height , which no body can deny . Vulcan farther did acquaint her , That a pretty estate he would appoint her , And leave her Seacoal-lane for a Jointer , which no body can deny . And that no Enemy might wrong her , He built her a Fort you'd wish no stronger , Which was the Lane of Ironmonger , which no body can deny . Smithfield he did cleanse from dirt , And sure there was great reason fored , For there he meant she should keep her Court , which no body can deny . But after in a good time or tide , It was by the Blacksmith rectified , To the honour of Edmond Ironside , which no body can deny . Vulcan after made a Train , Wherein the God of War was taken , Which ever since hath been called Pals-chain , which no body can deny . The common Proverb as it is read , That a man must hit the nail on the head , Without the Blacksmith cannot be said , which no body can deny . Another Proverb must not be forgotten , And falls unto the Blacksmith's lot , That a man must strike while the Iron is hight , which no body can deny . Another comes in most proper and fit , The Blacksmiths justice is seen in it , When you give a man roast , and beatrice him with the spit , which no body can deny . A Nother comes in our Blacksmiths way , When things are safe as old Wives say , We have them under lock and key , which no body can deny . Another that's in the Blacksmiths books , And only to him for remedy looks , Is when a man's quite off the hooks , which no body can deny . Another Proverb to him does belong , And therefore let's doe the Blacksmith no wrong When a man's held hard tooed buckle and thong which no body can deny . Another Proverb does make me laugh , Wherein the Blacksmith may challenge half , When a reason's as plain as a Pikestaff , which no body can deny . Though your Lawyers travel both near & amp ; far , And by long pleading a good cause may mar , Yet your Blacksmiths takes more pains at the bar , which no body can deny . Though your Scriveners seek to crush & amp ; to kill , By his counterfeit deeds and thereby does ill , Yet your Blacksmith he may forge what he will which no body can deny . though your bankrupt citizens lurk in their holes and laugh at their creditors & amp ; their catchpoles Yet your Blacksmith can fetch them over the coals which no body can deny . Though Jockey in the Stable be never so neat , To look to his Nag , and prescribe him his meat Yet your Blacksmith knows better how to give a heat , which no body can deny . If any Taylor have the Itch The Blacksmiths water as black as pitch Will make his hands go through stitch , which no body can deny . There's never a slut if filth o're-smuch her , But ows to the Blacksmith for her letchor , for without a pair of tongue's there's no man will touch her which no body can deny . Your roaring boys who every one quails , Fights , Domineers , Swagers and Rails , Could never yet make the smith eat his nails , which no body can deny . If any Scholar be in a doubt , And cannot well bring his matter about , The Blacksmith he can hammer it out , which no body can deny . Now if to know him you would desire , You must not scorn but rank him higher , For what he gets is out of the fire , which no body can deny . Now here's a good health to Blacksmiths all And let it go round , as round as a ball , We'll drink it off though it cost us a fallen , which no body can deny . London , Printed for P. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 