The Woody Querristers . When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither good nor bad to say ; The pretty Birds then filled with pain . Did to each other thus complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-catchers Delight . O H says the Cuckoo , loud and stout , I fly the Country round about : While other Birds my young ones feed , And I my self do stand in need . Then says the Sparrow on her nest , I loved a Lass but it was in jest : And ever since that self same thing , I made a vow I never would sing . In comes the Robin , and thus he said , I loved once a well-favoured Maid : Her Beauty kindled such a spark , That on my breast I bear the mark . The said the Lark upon the Grass , I loved once a well-favoured Lass : But she would not hear her true love sing , Though he had a voice would please a King . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I loved one but she is dead ; And ever since my love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in Black . Then said the bonny Nightingale , Thus I must end my mournful tale , While others sing , I fit and mourn , Leaning my breast against a thorn . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then , I never shall be my self again : I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause that I wag my tail . Then said the pritty-coloured Jay , My dearest love is fled away , And in remembrance of my dear , A Feather of every sort I wear . Then said the Leather-winged Batt , Mind but my tale , and i'll tell you what Is the cause that I do fly by night , Because I lost my hearts delight . Then said the Green-Bird as she flew , I loved one that proved untrue : And since she can no more be seen , Like a lovesick Maid I turn to green . Then did begin the Chattering Swallow , My love she is fled , but I would not follow ; And now upon the Chimney high , I sing forth my poor malady . Oh! says the Owl , my love is gone , That I so much did dote upon : I know not how my love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing as she flies , I search the Meadows and the Skies : But cannot find my Love again . So about I fly in deadly pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing , Which does to me no comfort bring , For oftentimes I at midnight , Record my love and hearts delight . The Canary-bird she then comes in , To tell her tale she does begin ; I am of my dear love bereft . So I have my own Country left . The Chafinch then begins to speak , For love , quoth she , my heart will break ; I grieve so for my only dear , I sing but two months in the year . Then , quoth the Magpie , I was crossed In love , and now my dear is lost ; And wanting of my hearts delight , I mourn for him in black and white . O says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why in black we go , It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bullfinch he was in a rage , And nothing could his wrath assuage So in the Woods he would not dwell , But spends his time in lonesome Cell . Thus have you herd the Birds complaint Taking delight in their restraint Let this to all a pattern be , For to delight in Constancy . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P assinger . The Woody Querristers . When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither good nor bad to say ; The pretty Birds then filled with pain . Did to each other thus complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-catchers Delight . O H says the Cuckoo , loud and stout , I fly the Country round about : While other Birds my young ones feed , And I my self do stand in need . Then says the Sparrow on her nest , I loved a Lass but it was in jest : And ever since that self same thing , I made a vow I never would sing . In comes the Robin , and thus he said , I loved once a well-favoured Maid : Her Beauty kindled such a spark , That on my breast I bear the mark . The said the Lark upon the Grass , I loved once a well-favoured Lass : But she would not hear her true love sing , Though he had a voice would please a King . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I loved one but she is dead ; And ever since my love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in Black . Then said the bonny Nightingale , Thus I must end my mournful tale , While others sing , I fit and mourn , Leaning my breast against a thorn . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then , I never shall be my self again : I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause that I wag my tail . Then said the pritty-coloured Jay , My dearest love is fled away , And in remembrance of my dear , A Feather of every sort I wear . Then said the Leather-winged Batt , Mind but my tale , and i'll tell you what Is the cause that I do fly by night , Because I lost my hearts delight . Then said the Green-Bird as she flew , I loved one that proved untrue : And since she can no more be seen , Like a lovesick Maid I turn to green . Then did begin the Chattering Swallow , My love she is fled , but I would not follow ; And now upon the Chimney high , I sing forth my poor malady . Oh! says the Owl , my love is gone , That I so much did dote upon : I know not how my love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing as she flies , I search the Meadows and the Skies : But cannot find my Love again . So about I fly in deadly pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing , Which does to me no comfort bring , For oftentimes I at midnight , Record my love and hearts delight . The Canary-bird she then comes in , To tell her tale she does begin ; I am of my dear love bereft . So I have my own Country left . The Chafinch then begins to speak , For love , quoth she , my heart will break ; I grieve so for my only dear , I sing but two months in the year . Then , quoth the Magpie , I was crossed In love , and now my dear is lost ; And wanting of my hearts delight , I mourn for him in black and white . O says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why in black we go , It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bullfinch he was in a rage , And nothing could his wrath assuage So in the Woods he would not dwell , But spends his time in lonesome Cell . Thus have you herd the Birds complaint Taking delight in their restraint Let this to all a pattern be , For to delight in Constancy . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P assinger . 