Wit bought at a Dear Rate , Being a Relation of the Misery on suffers by being too kind hearted : Wishing all people to beware of that undoing quality ; and to be frugal and saving , that in aged years , their life may be as comfortable , as in youth it was pleasant and folly . To the Tune of , Turn Love , I prithee love turn to me . I F all the World my mind did know , I would not care a pin , If I were young I would take heed , my life how to begin : I would not be kind hearted , but money keep in store , Which if that I in youth had done , I should not now be poor . When in Prosperity I was , I then of friends had plenty , But now adversity is come , I find not one in twenty ; Then was I treated well of all , and had of gifts good store , If wise I had been in my youth , I should not now be poor . This World I liken to the tide , which oft does ebb and flow , Some are to great riches brought , and some do fallen full low : The joys and pleasures of this life , like flowers fade , therefore We in our youth must frugal be , or in age must poor . Some for and honest livelihood , do use endeavours great , And though they work both day & amp ; night , they scarce get bred to eat : There's some again with little pains , have riches in great store , To me blind fortune is unkind , therefore I must be poor . Yet I a little comfort find , that I am not alone , Thousands there be as good as I , do daily make their moan : If yet I could some Money get , I would it keep in store , Too kind I have been in my youth , and now I must be poor . S Ome with extravagant expense , make their estates to fly , And some who little had before , are made when friends do die : So various are our fortune's here , some need , and some have store , But if in youth we be not wise , we must in age be poor . This age is grown to such a pass , that they who go but mean , And to their friends for kindness go , they give them no esteem : So cruel and hardhearted , are people now , therefore Youth must be wise , and careful be , or else in age be poor . When plenty in my purse I had , I then relieved many , But now I come to need my self , not pitied am by any : I toil and weary out my days , yet still am troubled soar , For charity is waxed cold , and quite turned out of door . Love from me long time since is gone , but patience tarries still , Poverty comes oft to my door , and vows to have his will : If Providence does not step in , as he hath done before , I always shall in sorrow fit , and in my age be poor . Good people all be warned by me , do not too freely live , Slight not my Council nor Advice , which here to you I give : Make use of it at present time , lest you for evermore , Hereafter dearly do repent , and in your age be poor . Youth for most part is Prodigal , age bears a frugal mind , More families are not undone , then those who are too kind : If that in time my words you mark , you may still more and more , Live in esteem , continue rich , ( if not ) live to be poor . While that you live in good estate , you shall have company , But when that you have need of some , you then alone shall be : While you do feast and give good gifts , keep for your self some store , For if that you do part with all , you then must needs be poor . Despite not now what I hear say , but take it in good part , What here you read you well may think is spoken from the heart : It comes from one who troubled is , each day in mind full soar , Who in their youth have been too kind , therefore must now be poor . Farewell my friends , I wish you all , may warning by me take , And in your youth while you are strong , your future fortune's make : Be courteous , kind , to every one , yet as I said before , Be careful in your youthful time , or else in age be poor . FINIS . With Allowance . London . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , near Hatten-Garden . Wit bought at a Dear Rate , Being a Relation of the Misery on suffers by being too kind hearted : Wishing all people to beware of that undoing quality ; and to be frugal and saving , that in aged years , their life may be as comfortable , as in youth it was pleasant and folly . To the Tune of , Turn Love , I prithee love turn to me . I F all the World my mind did know , I would not care a pin , If I were young I would take heed , my life how to begin : I would not be kind hearted , but money keep in store , Which if that I in youth had done , I should not now be poor . When in Prosperity I was , I then of friends had plenty , But now adversity is come , I find not one in twenty ; Then was I treated well of all , and had of gifts good store , If wise I had been in my youth , I should not now be poor . This World I liken to the tide , which oft does ebb and flow , Some are to great riches brought , and some do fallen full low : The joys and pleasures of this life , like flowers fade , therefore We in our youth must frugal be , or in age must poor . Some for and honest livelihood , do use endeavours great , And though they work both day & amp ; night , they scarce get bred to eat : There's some again with little pains , have riches in great store , To me blind fortune is unkind , therefore I must be poor . Yet I a little comfort find , that I am not alone , Thousands there be as good as I , do daily make their moan : If yet I could some Money get , I would it keep in store , Too kind I have been in my youth , and now I must be poor . S Ome with extravagant expense , make their estates to fly , And some who little had before , are made when friends do die : So various are our fortune's here , some need , and some have store , But if in youth we be not wise , we must in age be poor . This age is grown to such a pass , that they who go but mean , And to their friends for kindness go , they give them no esteem : So cruel and hardhearted , are people now , therefore Youth must be wise , and careful be , or else in age be poor . When plenty in my purse I had , I then relieved many , But now I come to need my self , not pitied am by any : I toil and weary out my days , yet still am troubled soar , For charity is waxed cold , and quite turned out of door . Love from me long time since is gone , but patience tarries still , Poverty comes oft to my door , and vows to have his will : If Providence does not step in , as he hath done before , I always shall in sorrow fit , and in my age be poor . Good people all be warned by me , do not too freely live , Slight not my Council nor Advice , which here to you I give : Make use of it at present time , lest you for evermore , Hereafter dearly do repent , and in your age be poor . Youth for most part is Prodigal , age bears a frugal mind , More families are not undone , then those who are too kind : If that in time my words you mark , you may still more and more , Live in esteem , continue rich , ( if not ) live to be poor . While that you live in good estate , you shall have company , But when that you have need of some , you then alone shall be : While you do feast and give good gifts , keep for your self some store , For if that you do part with all , you then must needs be poor . Despite not now what I hear say , but take it in good part , What here you read you well may think is spoken from the heart : It comes from one who troubled is , each day in mind full soar , Who in their youth have been too kind , therefore must now be poor . Farewell my friends , I wish you all , may warning by me take , And in your youth while you are strong , your future fortune's make : Be courteous , kind , to every one , yet as I said before , Be careful in your youthful time , or else in age be poor . FINIS . With Allowance . London . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , near Hatten-Garden . 