Yea-and-Nay the Hypocrite : OR , A Brief Relation of a pretended Quaker near Yarmouth , who having lain with his own Sister , god her with Child , so that she brought him Two Sons at a Birth for a New-years-Gift . To the Tune of The Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . A Pretended Quaker near Yarmouth did dwell , Of whom I a certain Relation shall tell ; He had and own Sister called Marry by Name , The which he hath brought now to public shame : He often did Court her before she would yield , At length his whole Mind in a Word he revealed ; By Yea-and-Nay Sister do not say me nay , You know that the innocent Lambs they will play . A Spirit does move me to Love thee this Night , I long for to taste of those Joys and Delight , Which other found Lovers so highly do prize , Methinks I see Babies in thy pretty Eyes : O do not deny me , but let me prevail , Strong is the Desire , my Flesh it is frail , And subject to Pleasure and wander astray , Thou knowest that the innocent Lambs they will play . O fie for shame Brother ! thouled cause me to chide , What wouldst thou be nought with thy Sister she cried , Pray tell me , is wanton young Women so scarce , That your loving Sister you strive to disgrace : I will not go unto a Harlot , said he , I'ld rather be kissing , and loving of thee ; In what I desire do not say me nay , Thou knowest that the innocent Lambs they will play . Said she , It is a since if I lie with another , And worse if I happen to lie with my Brother ; The World will cry out of this horrible Crime , Without doubt it will be discovered in time : Tush , fear not this since , for the nearer of Kin , The common old Maxim is , the farther in : Then prithee sweet Sister , do not say me nay , Thou knowest that the innocent Lambs they will play . Thou hearest the Town-Bells how they merrily ring , Let us be as blithe as the Birds in the Spring , For I am both merry and jolly , he cried , And willing I am to lie down by thy side , To taste of the Fountain and Raptures of Joy , My sweet Sister Marry forbear to be coy ; Indeed I do love thee , by Yea and by Nay , Thou knowest that , etc But if you should get me with Child , she replied . For such a great Charge I can never provide : Sweet Sister that Charge I tell thee never fear , I have and Estate of full Six pounds a year , Which shall be thine , Marry , if thou wilt be free To take now the weight of a man upon thee : Be kind to thy Brother , and don't say me nay , Thou knowest that , etc His Gifts were so large that she could not deny , But readily did to his humours comply ; The Quaker as brisk as a Town-Bully Spark , His Light did go out , they were both in the Dark : Quoth he , If I miss of a Daughter or Son , The Wicked shall never know what we have done : I'll love thee for ever , now by Yea and Nay , Thou knowest that the innocent Lambs they will play Soon after his Sister he thus had embraced , Poor heart , she began to grow wide in the Waste ; The pain it lay in the Back , Belly , and Side , Alas ! I am ruined dear Brother she cried . But then at the length as the Truth did appear , She brought him two Sons to begin the New Year , And both at a Birth , my Friends , by Yea-and-Nay , This comes when the innocent Lambs they do play . Printed for P. Brooksby , J , Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Yea-and-Nay the Hypocrite : OR , A Brief Relation of a pretended Quaker near Yarmouth , who having lain with his own Sister , god her with Child , so that she brought him Two Sons at a Birth for a New-years-Gift . To the Tune of The Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . A Pretended Quaker near Yarmouth did dwell , Of whom I a certain Relation shall tell ; He had and own Sister called Marry by Name , The which he hath brought now to public shame : He often did Court her before she would yield , At length his whole Mind in a Word he revealed ; By Yea-and-Nay Sister do not say me nay , You know that the innocent Lambs they will play . A Spirit does move me to Love thee this Night , I long for to taste of those Joys and Delight , Which other found Lovers so highly do prize , Methinks I see Babies in thy pretty Eyes : O do not deny me , but let me prevail , Strong is the Desire , my Flesh it is frail , And subject to Pleasure and wander astray , Thou knowest that the innocent Lambs they will play . O fie for shame Brother ! thouled cause me to chide , What wouldst thou be nought with thy Sister she cried , Pray tell me , is wanton young Women so scarce , That your loving Sister you strive to disgrace : I will not go unto a Harlot , said he , I'ld rather be kissing , and loving of thee ; In what I desire do not say me nay , Thou knowest that the innocent Lambs they will play . Said she , It is a since if I lie with another , And worse if I happen to lie with my Brother ; The World will cry out of this horrible Crime , Without doubt it will be discovered in time : Tush , fear not this since , for the nearer of Kin , The common old Maxim is , the farther in : Then prithee sweet Sister , do not say me nay , Thou knowest that the innocent Lambs they will play . Thou hearest the Town-Bells how they merrily ring , Let us be as blithe as the Birds in the Spring , For I am both merry and jolly , he cried , And willing I am to lie down by thy side , To taste of the Fountain and Raptures of Joy , My sweet Sister Marry forbear to be coy ; Indeed I do love thee , by Yea and by Nay , Thou knowest that , etc But if you should get me with Child , she replied . For such a great Charge I can never provide : Sweet Sister that Charge I tell thee never fear , I have and Estate of full Six pounds a year , Which shall be thine , Marry , if thou wilt be free To take now the weight of a man upon thee : Be kind to thy Brother , and don't say me nay , Thou knowest that , etc His Gifts were so large that she could not deny , But readily did to his humours comply ; The Quaker as brisk as a Town-Bully Spark , His Light did go out , they were both in the Dark : Quoth he , If I miss of a Daughter or Son , The Wicked shall never know what we have done : I'll love thee for ever , now by Yea and Nay , Thou knowest that the innocent Lambs they will play Soon after his Sister he thus had embraced , Poor heart , she began to grow wide in the Waste ; The pain it lay in the Back , Belly , and Side , Alas ! I am ruined dear Brother she cried . But then at the length as the Truth did appear , She brought him two Sons to begin the New Year , And both at a Birth , my Friends , by Yea-and-Nay , This comes when the innocent Lambs they do play . Printed for P. Brooksby , J , Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 