The Birds Lamentation . When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither good nor bad to say , The pretty Birds then filled with pain Did to each other thus complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-catchers delight . O H says the Cuckoo loud and stout , I fly the Country round about : While other Birds my young ones feed , And I my self do stand in need . Then says the Sparrow on her Nest , I loved a Lass but it was in jest : And ever since that self same thing , I made a vow I never would sing . Then said the Black-Bird as she fled , I loved one but she is dead ; And ever since my love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in Black . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then , I never shall be my self again : I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause that I wag my tail . Then did begin the chattering Swallow , My love she is fled , but I would not follow ; And now upon the Chimney high , I sing forth my poor Melody . O says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why in Black we go ; It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . Oh! says the Owl , that flies by night , I have quite lost my hearts delight , But since my Love is gone away , I never fly out in the day . Oh! says the squealing little Thresh , my sorrows now begin a fresh ; For my Lover grows exceeding proud , and that is the cause that I squeal so loud . Oh! says the Robin-red-Breast , when you do me see , conclude it then The cold hard Winter's drawing nigh , which makes me towards the houses fly . Oh! says the pretty Skie-Lark , I up to the Element do fly ; I lost my love , that caused my pain , and strive to sing it away in vain , Oh! says the little Titty-mouse , In secret holes I keep my house , Where mournfully I do complain , and curse my Lovers rash disdain . Oh! says the Bullfinch mind my moan , like my great loss you never had none ; Then to my Lamentation hark , as I fit singing in the dark . Oh! says the Magpie , what's the matter that you admire me when I chatter ? I lost my Love and dearest Mate ; I think it's then high-time to prate . Oh! says the Jackdaw I'm perplexed , I lost my Love , and am strangely vexed ; And now I am forced to lodge in straw , most people still call me Jackdaw . Oh! says the Goldfinch mind me well , while my sad story I do tell , It often puts me in a rage , to see me penned up in a Cage . Oh! says the pretty little Linet , I loved well , but the duce was in it ; For I'm forsook for good and all , though oft in vain on him I call . Oh! says the pretty Nightingale , come listen a while unto my tale ; While other Birds do sleep I mourn , leaning my breast against a thorn , When they had mourned thus every one telling the cause they made such moan ; All of a sudden away they flew , and never so much as said adieu . But I suppose to their Nests they went , to sleep all night was their intent , But when the morning came again , then they began for to complain . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-cornerThe Birds Lamentation . When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither good nor bad to say , The pretty Birds then filled with pain Did to each other thus complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-catchers delight . O H says the Cuckoo loud and stout , I fly the Country round about : While other Birds my young ones feed , And I my self do stand in need . Then says the Sparrow on her Nest , I loved a Lass but it was in jest : And ever since that self same thing , I made a vow I never would sing . Then said the Black-Bird as she fled , I loved one but she is dead ; And ever since my love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in Black . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then , I never shall be my self again : I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause that I wag my tail . Then did begin the chattering Swallow , My love she is fled , but I would not follow ; And now upon the Chimney high , I sing forth my poor Melody . O says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why in Black we go ; It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . Oh! says the Owl , that flies by night , I have quite lost my hearts delight , But since my Love is gone away , I never fly out in the day . Oh! says the squealing little Thresh , my sorrows now begin a fresh ; For my Lover grows exceeding proud , and that is the cause that I squeal so loud . Oh! says the Robin-red-Breast , when you do me see , conclude it then The cold hard Winter's drawing nigh , which makes me towards the houses fly . Oh! says the pretty Skie-Lark , I up to the Element do fly ; I lost my love , that caused my pain , and strive to sing it away in vain , Oh! says the little Titty-mouse , In secret holes I keep my house , Where mournfully I do complain , and curse my Lovers rash disdain . Oh! says the Bullfinch mind my moan , like my great loss you never had none ; Then to my Lamentation hark , as I fit singing in the dark . Oh! says the Magpie , what's the matter that you admire me when I chatter ? I lost my Love and dearest Mate ; I think it's then high-time to prate . Oh! says the Jackdaw I'm perplexed , I lost my Love , and am strangely vexed ; And now I am forced to lodge in straw , most people still call me Jackdaw . Oh! says the Goldfinch mind me well , while my sad story I do tell , It often puts me in a rage , to see me penned up in a Cage . Oh! says the pretty little Linet , I loved well , but the duce was in it ; For I'm forsook for good and all , though oft in vain on him I call . Oh! says the pretty Nightingale , come listen a while unto my tale ; While other Birds do sleep I mourn , leaning my breast against a thorn , When they had mourned thus every one telling the cause they made such moan ; All of a sudden away they flew , and never so much as said adieu . But I suppose to their Nests they went , to sleep all night was their intent , But when the morning came again , then they began for to complain . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner 