The Maidens Frolicsome Undertaking To Press Twenty Tailors , With the Success of that Comical Adventure . To the Tune of , And Orange . Licensed according to Order . L Ate near Temple-Bar , a Frolic we hear , Which many brisk Fellows did put in much fear Ten Lasses i'th' Strand , did take it in hand , In Seamens disguise , for to Press and Command Twenty Tailors . Moll , Nelly , and Sue , with Nan , Kate , and Prue , Their Hangers put on , with the rest of the Crew , And so strait they went , about their intent , To Ferret them out of their Garrets , they meant , All the Tailors . But as they did go , along the back-Row , They met with a Snipper that well they did know ; Moll starts from the rest , and cries Friend you are pressed He let fallen his Cabbidge , and cried by his List , I'm a Taylor . A Taylor for Sea , he never can fit be , He's the ninth of a Man , then pray set me free , But this blind excuse , nor the price of his Goose , Did not then prevail , for , says Kate , there's much use For a Taylor . Though it's plain he's no Man , yet stitch well he can , There's need oned at Sea , then you Rascal come on , Then trembling full low , himself he did throw At their feet , and did beg that they pity would show To a Taylor . Pray pity my tears , and my Bodkin and Shears , With all the good Cabbidge I've stole many years ; Talk not of the Sea , I pray set me free , For when did you hear that to Fight did agree With a Taylor . But nothing availed , away he was hailed , Nor long of more Tailors this buxom Crew failed , Six more they did seize , at Small-beer and Cheese , For well out of Cowcumber-time that agrees With the Tailors . At sighed of this Crew , some fainted , some flew , The Room it was scented , but all would not do ; You Soundrels , quoth Nell , date you to rebel , Come along , and with that they to Cudgeling fell Of the Tailors . They cried out full soar , they had Children store , And Wives to maintain , but quoth Molly give over ; It's better be brave , than fit like a Slave , Crosslegged on a Shopboard ; but this sorrow gave To the Tailors . These once away sent , to the Garrets they went , And though they saw none , yet to search they were [ bent ] And feeling i the Shreads , they found out their [ beds ] In Hell then for dear were hidden the Heads Of the Tail [ ors . ] Then out from the Rags , a Taylor each drags O some by the Heels , and some by the Crags , And cried out away , you Rascals , to Sea , Fight for King and Queen , but this did not agree , With the Tail [ ors . ] Thus eight more they god , to make up the shot , Cries Sue , in the Chimney as yet we looked not ; This made them look there , when strid on the B [ ? ] A cockhorse were riding three ( half dead with fear ) Of the Tail [ ors . ] These being thus Pressed , they looked for the rest , And quickly they pulled they all out of their Nest Compelled them to go , with Kick and with blow , Some cried and some pist , and yet all would not d [ ? ] For the Taylo [ rs . ] They stood not to choose , nor none did refuse , Monsieur , Shon-a-Morgan , & amp ; Teague they did no [ ? ] And more in the Trap , these Females did snap , Until they the Twenty had fairly made up Of all Tailors . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . The Maidens Frolicsome Undertaking To Press Twenty Tailors , With the Success of that Comical Adventure . To the Tune of , And Orange . Licensed according to Order . L Ate near Temple-Bar , a Frolic we hear , Which many brisk Fellows did put in much fear Ten Lasses i'th' Strand , did take it in hand , In Seamens disguise , for to Press and Command Twenty Tailors . Moll , Nelly , and Sue , with Nan , Kate , and Prue , Their Hangers put on , with the rest of the Crew , And so strait they went , about their intent , To Ferret them out of their Garrets , they meant , All the Tailors . But as they did go , along the back-Row , They met with a Snipper that well they did know ; Moll starts from the rest , and cries Friend you are pressed He let fallen his Cabbidge , and cried by his List , I'm a Taylor . A Taylor for Sea , he never can fit be , He's the ninth of a Man , then pray set me free , But this blind excuse , nor the price of his Goose , Did not then prevail , for , says Kate , there's much use For a Taylor . Though it's plain he's no Man , yet stitch well he can , There's need oned at Sea , then you Rascal come on , Then trembling full low , himself he did throw At their feet , and did beg that they pity would show To a Taylor . Pray pity my tears , and my Bodkin and Shears , With all the good Cabbidge I've stole many years ; Talk not of the Sea , I pray set me free , For when did you hear that to Fight did agree With a Taylor . But nothing availed , away he was hailed , Nor long of more Tailors this buxom Crew failed , Six more they did seize , at Small-beer and Cheese , For well out of Cowcumber-time that agrees With the Tailors . At sighed of this Crew , some fainted , some flew , The Room it was scented , but all would not do ; You Soundrels , quoth Nell , date you to rebel , Come along , and with that they to Cudgeling fell Of the Tailors . They cried out full soar , they had Children store , And Wives to maintain , but quoth Molly give over ; It's better be brave , than fit like a Slave , Crosslegged on a Shopboard ; but this sorrow gave To the Tailors . These once away sent , to the Garrets they went , And though they saw none , yet to search they were [ bent ] And feeling i the Shreads , they found out their [ beds ] In Hell then for dear were hidden the Heads Of the Tail [ ors . ] Then out from the Rags , a Taylor each drags O some by the Heels , and some by the Crags , And cried out away , you Rascals , to Sea , Fight for King and Queen , but this did not agree , With the Tail [ ors . ] Thus eight more they god , to make up the shot , Cries Sue , in the Chimney as yet we looked not ; This made them look there , when strid on the B [ ? ] A cockhorse were riding three ( half dead with fear ) Of the Tail [ ors . ] These being thus Pressed , they looked for the rest , And quickly they pulled they all out of their Nest Compelled them to go , with Kick and with blow , Some cried and some pist , and yet all would not d [ ? ] For the Taylo [ rs . ] They stood not to choose , nor none did refuse , Monsieur , Shon-a-Morgan , & amp ; Teague they did no [ ? ] And more in the Trap , these Females did snap , Until they the Twenty had fairly made up Of all Tailors . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . 