The Londoners Answer TO Downright Dick of the West . Showing , That they cannot live without London , being the place where they Fell and receive money for their Goods . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . I F you to my words now will attend , This little dispute we will quickly end , We'll give what is due to London-Town , And you shall be sure for to have your own , The City has many brave things from you , It's owned always , for it's most true : But while you do only your riches pursue , The City is little obliged to you . The Dairy-Maid comes into London town , Full often to buy her a Russet Gown , You know by experience that this is true : But here you first god the money too , And why do you sow either Seed or Grain , Or trot through the Dirt and Rain , The reason appears to be ready and plain , You sweat and you labour for your own gain . Why sits the old Shepherd upon the plain , Regardless all day of the Storms and Rain , And why does the Plowman mind his plough , And why does the Milkmaid milk her Cow , The reason is plain as I said before , It's all for to increase their store , That they may grown wealthy and never be poor , And keep the lean Wolf far off their door . Y Ou bring us to Town your Curds and Cream , But Money maintains the Farmers Team , You mind not the Winter nor the cold , But fix all your mind upon London Gold : It's that does still raise your hope's up higher , And adds fuel unto your fire , It's that which indeed , we do all admire , For it's merry Wealth that we all desire . Then London is not obliged to you , While only you do your wealth pursue , It's this merry town that does make you rich , Or else you might all go scratch your breech : To London you must all your treasure bring , Whose fame around the Orb does Ring , Each country and shire were a wretched poor thing , If 'twere not for London , whose praise we sing . We into the Country for our Health , But come up to London for to get wealth , To reach this rich place all mankind strive , For London is always the great BEE-HIVE : Here's Wax , and rich Honey , and all things rare , And none can with this place compare , Such plenty abounds that we all things can spare Then where dwell such Beauty's , so bright and fair . We teach you fine fashions and fine things , Without us you can't buy your wedding Rings . Sweet Dickee must foot it to this place , If he will buy Dolly a fine Bonelace , Without us you cant have a drop of Oil , And if Beef in the Pot does boil You must then go Ramble over many a style , For Mustard sometime you must go five mile , But we without Wheat can never live , And for it , our money we freely give , You therefore should ever fair London prize , And we too should never the Swain despise , Though we have a Thousand things more then you If we give to each one his due , You must have of us and we must have of you , And every one knows well that this is true . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Back at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . The Londoners Answer TO Downright Dick of the West . Showing , That they cannot live without London , being the place where they Fell and receive money for their Goods . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . I F you to my words now will attend , This little dispute we will quickly end , We'll give what is due to London-Town , And you shall be sure for to have your own , The City has many brave things from you , It's owned always , for it's most true : But while you do only your riches pursue , The City is little obliged to you . The Dairy-Maid comes into London town , Full often to buy her a Russet Gown , You know by experience that this is true : But here you first god the money too , And why do you sow either Seed or Grain , Or trot through the Dirt and Rain , The reason appears to be ready and plain , You sweat and you labour for your own gain . Why sits the old Shepherd upon the plain , Regardless all day of the Storms and Rain , And why does the Plowman mind his plough , And why does the Milkmaid milk her Cow , The reason is plain as I said before , It's all for to increase their store , That they may grown wealthy and never be poor , And keep the lean Wolf far off their door . Y Ou bring us to Town your Curds and Cream , But Money maintains the Farmers Team , You mind not the Winter nor the cold , But fix all your mind upon London Gold : It's that does still raise your hope's up higher , And adds fuel unto your fire , It's that which indeed , we do all admire , For it's merry Wealth that we all desire . Then London is not obliged to you , While only you do your wealth pursue , It's this merry town that does make you rich , Or else you might all go scratch your breech : To London you must all your treasure bring , Whose fame around the Orb does Ring , Each country and shire were a wretched poor thing , If 'twere not for London , whose praise we sing . We into the Country for our Health , But come up to London for to get wealth , To reach this rich place all mankind strive , For London is always the great BEE-HIVE : Here's Wax , and rich Honey , and all things rare , And none can with this place compare , Such plenty abounds that we all things can spare Then where dwell such Beauty's , so bright and fair . We teach you fine fashions and fine things , Without us you can't buy your wedding Rings . Sweet Dickee must foot it to this place , If he will buy Dolly a fine Bonelace , Without us you cant have a drop of Oil , And if Beef in the Pot does boil You must then go Ramble over many a style , For Mustard sometime you must go five mile , But we without Wheat can never live , And for it , our money we freely give , You therefore should ever fair London prize , And we too should never the Swain despise , Though we have a Thousand things more then you If we give to each one his due , You must have of us and we must have of you , And every one knows well that this is true . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Back at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . 