THE French King's Vision : OR , And Account of those fearful Apparitions which disturbed him in his Sleep , when he had been lay - king his Senses in soak in a prodigious Quantity of Claret . To the Tune of Hope Farewell . O N the Fourteenth day of October , with many Bumpers of Claret well filled The French King went to Bed not half sober , and in his sleep he a Vision beheld ; Many strange things on Subject's and Kings , & amp ; all his Vainglory was mounted on Wings , Taking their flight , that very night , and chased by stout Hero's in shining Armour bright . Then a Voice said , Lewis be humble , and let the Protestant Princes alone , Or the Crown from your Noddle shall tumble , for no such Tyrant shall fit on the Throne . This dreadful Found his Senses did wound , then dreaming a Fire encircled him round , His Heart did ache , ready to break , but yet from this slumber the Monarch would not wake . Then appeared and Army of Martyrs , which he had Murdered by Fire and Sword ; Men and Wives with both Sons & amp ; Daughters ; the Sighed of which did much horror afford : These Martyrs boar a Banner before , now with this Inscription in a Protestant Gore , Lewis shall fly from France : for why ? the innocent Blood do's for fearful Vengeance cry Then a Crew of Bald-pated Friars he see , began to scamper about , Whose false Faces then flamed like Fire , Father Le Cheese in the midst of the Rout ; As they did run they cried we're undone , we all shall be killed by the Heretics Gun , Which will take place in a short space , Begar we are now in a miserable Case . After them came more of their Creatures , now they were clothed in Garments of Black , In the middle ran Old Father Petres , with his Welsh Highness fast bound to his back . There did he fume , and cried out , Make Room , or utter Destruction will soon be our Doom ; Protestants they have god the day , and therefore in Paris no longer will I stay . Then this French unfortunate Caesar he quaked and trembled in every Limb ; For he dreamed that Nebuchadnezer told this Tyrant he must be like him : The Throne he disgraced , the Turk he embraced , And many fair Cities by Fire laid waste , Destroying all , these Crimes do call For Vengeance , proud Lewis behold your dismal Fallen ! In and Agony Lewis was taken , to think that he should be ruined and marred ; In this fright he did straightways awaken , and then did Thunder and Call to his Guard : Saying , I fear my Ruin draws near , For to me a Vision this night did appear , The Protestants they will advance , And make their King William the Monarch of great France . In my dream I see Petre ' s kindness , when my Servants was cloudy and dull , At his Back he had bound his Welsh Highness , and ran with him like a Pedlar's Trull ; This was his Care at point of Despair , To save from Destruction the Catholic Heir , Such Love he had for the young Lad , That for ought I know he may be his noun sweet Dad . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . THE French King's Vision : OR , And Account of those fearful Apparitions which disturbed him in his Sleep , when he had been lay - king his Senses in soak in a prodigious Quantity of Claret . To the Tune of Hope Farewell . O N the Fourteenth day of October , with many Bumpers of Claret well filled The French King went to Bed not half sober , and in his sleep he a Vision beheld ; Many strange things on Subject's and Kings , & amp ; all his Vainglory was mounted on Wings , Taking their flight , that very night , and chased by stout Hero's in shining Armour bright . Then a Voice said , Lewis be humble , and let the Protestant Princes alone , Or the Crown from your Noddle shall tumble , for no such Tyrant shall fit on the Throne . This dreadful Found his Senses did wound , then dreaming a Fire encircled him round , His Heart did ache , ready to break , but yet from this slumber the Monarch would not wake . Then appeared and Army of Martyrs , which he had Murdered by Fire and Sword ; Men and Wives with both Sons & amp ; Daughters ; the Sighed of which did much horror afford : These Martyrs boar a Banner before , now with this Inscription in a Protestant Gore , Lewis shall fly from France : for why ? the innocent Blood do's for fearful Vengeance cry Then a Crew of Bald-pated Friars he see , began to scamper about , Whose false Faces then flamed like Fire , Father Le Cheese in the midst of the Rout ; As they did run they cried we're undone , we all shall be killed by the Heretics Gun , Which will take place in a short space , Begar we are now in a miserable Case . After them came more of their Creatures , now they were clothed in Garments of Black , In the middle ran Old Father Petres , with his Welsh Highness fast bound to his back . There did he fume , and cried out , Make Room , or utter Destruction will soon be our Doom ; Protestants they have god the day , and therefore in Paris no longer will I stay . Then this French unfortunate Caesar he quaked and trembled in every Limb ; For he dreamed that Nebuchadnezer told this Tyrant he must be like him : The Throne he disgraced , the Turk he embraced , And many fair Cities by Fire laid waste , Destroying all , these Crimes do call For Vengeance , proud Lewis behold your dismal Fallen ! In and Agony Lewis was taken , to think that he should be ruined and marred ; In this fright he did straightways awaken , and then did Thunder and Call to his Guard : Saying , I fear my Ruin draws near , For to me a Vision this night did appear , The Protestants they will advance , And make their King William the Monarch of great France . In my dream I see Petre ' s kindness , when my Servants was cloudy and dull , At his Back he had bound his Welsh Highness , and ran with him like a Pedlar's Trull ; This was his Care at point of Despair , To save from Destruction the Catholic Heir , Such Love he had for the young Lad , That for ought I know he may be his noun sweet Dad . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . 