The Warlike Taylor ; Or , A true Relation of a great Fight between a Taylor and a Louse most Heroicly performed in Black-Fryers , at the sign of the three flying Chamber-Pots , and four halfpenny Loaves , at the house of Sir John Swallowall . Describing the manner of the bloody Battle , and the success hereof , To the Tune of , I am the Duke of Norfolk , etc O Nce upon a time , There was a Taylor neat and fine , catched a Louse by the Shoulder-bone ; Quoth he , I'll make thee know , Before that I do go , whither a Taylor be a man or none . The Louse she gave a start , Made the Taylor let a F ----- and smilingly to him she did say ; Do not strike me when I'm down , It's the trick of a Clown , I beseech you let us have fair play . Quoth the Taylor that I grant , For no courage I do want , but a Coward I always did scorn ; I do give thee leave to rise , Fight thy best I thee advice for my anger is not to be born . Quoth the Louse I wonder much , That your rage should be such , against so old a Companion as I ; But I vow and do protest , I had thought you were in jest , but if otherwise , I scorn to fly . Yet I very fain would know , Before either strike a blow , what's the cause you so rashly contend Vouchsafe to tell me this , And have at you , hit or miss , for the best of my blood i'll spend . Quoth the Taylor , yester night , You my flesh did sorely bite , beside other things I could name ; But it would impeach my honour , For to parley in that manner , and therefore I conceal the same . The the Louse , since it's so , hQat you know what you know , [ n ] oh [ tO ] and your dignity is so immense , My heart is now at ease , You may strike me when you please . I am ready for to make my defence . Then the Taylor he began , Oh! so bravely like a man , and struck the Louse a box on the ear , Quoth he , then take thou that , And have at thee tother pat , then the Louse she began for to stare . But she gave him such a kick , She'd almost broke his neck , by tumbling him out of door ; Quoth he , 'twas bravely meant , Now I know thy full intent , I will quickly pay this odd score . [ Fr ] om the ground he arose , And pulled off his Clothes , and began in his pride for to strut ; Have at thee once again , Foreo put thee out of pain , I'm resolved to have tother bout . Then he catches up his Goose , And he threw it at the Louse , and he hit her such a clap on the side ; That she began to reel , With the pain she did feel , quoth the Taylor , now the wager is tried Quoth the Louse , Gudseers , And she catched up the Sheers , and the Taylor perceiving the stroke ; He nimbly stooped down , Yet she struck him on the Crown , that his head was most lamentably broke . O it vexed him to the heart , To feel the wound smart , and thus he did say in his rage ; If I could but get my Sword , Now I tell thee in a word , I've not fear with two such to engage . For by measures and my thimble , I would make thee to tremble , and to ask me forgiveness on thy knees , For this wound thou hast me given , To be sure I'll pay thee seven , for thou never knewest a weapon take fees . Then his Lap-board lying by , He catched it presently , and up to the Louse he came ; Quoth he , thou filthy creature , Who art so hateful to my nature , if I end not thy days i'm to blame . Quoth the Louse , I them sure my brood Is almost half your food , sitting cracking from morning till night And you stitch us here and there , Like a Rascal as you are , And yet now I'm abhorred in your sighed . But he quickly god his Yard , And the Louse was sorely scared , that under the shopboard she did creep , Quoth he are you there ? Come out if you dare , I will pay you with a Pox ever I sleep . And then the Taylor saw That the Louse would go to Law , Which made him willing to agree ; And because he would compound , He gave the Louse a crown , and by that means the Taylor god free . So then all was at peace , And these bloody wars did cease ; but the Taylor was so jeered up & amp ; down That his credit to maintain He has swore he'l fight again , if it were for a thousand pound . So my noble-hearted friends My story here it ends : and I wish you all to beware How the Taylor and the Louse Come to quarter in your house ; for you hear how desperate they are . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Warlike Taylor ; Or , A true Relation of a great Fight between a Taylor and a Louse most Heroicly performed in Black-Fryers , at the sign of the three flying Chamber-Pots , and four halfpenny Loaves , at the house of Sir John Swallowall . Describing the manner of the bloody Battle , and the success hereof , To the Tune of , I am the Duke of Norfolk , etc O Nce upon a time , There was a Taylor neat and fine , catched a Louse by the Shoulder-bone ; Quoth he , I'll make thee know , Before that I do go , whither a Taylor be a man or none . The Louse she gave a start , Made the Taylor let a F ----- and smilingly to him she did say ; Do not strike me when I'm down , It's the trick of a Clown , I beseech you let us have fair play . Quoth the Taylor that I grant , For no courage I do want , but a Coward I always did scorn ; I do give thee leave to rise , Fight thy best I thee advice for my anger is not to be born . Quoth the Louse I wonder much , That your rage should be such , against so old a Companion as I ; But I vow and do protest , I had thought you were in jest , but if otherwise , I scorn to fly . Yet I very fain would know , Before either strike a blow , what's the cause you so rashly contend Vouchsafe to tell me this , And have at you , hit or miss , for the best of my blood i'll spend . Quoth the Taylor , yester night , You my flesh did sorely bite , beside other things I could name ; But it would impeach my honour , For to parley in that manner , and therefore I conceal the same . The the Louse , since it's so , hQat you know what you know , [ n ] oh [ tO ] and your dignity is so immense , My heart is now at ease , You may strike me when you please . I am ready for to make my defence . Then the Taylor he began , Oh! so bravely like a man , and struck the Louse a box on the ear , Quoth he , then take thou that , And have at thee tother pat , then the Louse she began for to stare . But she gave him such a kick , She'd almost broke his neck , by tumbling him out of door ; Quoth he , 'twas bravely meant , Now I know thy full intent , I will quickly pay this odd score . [ Fr ] om the ground he arose , And pulled off his Clothes , and began in his pride for to strut ; Have at thee once again , Foreo put thee out of pain , I'm resolved to have tother bout . Then he catches up his Goose , And he threw it at the Louse , and he hit her such a clap on the side ; That she began to reel , With the pain she did feel , quoth the Taylor , now the wager is tried Quoth the Louse , Gudseers , And she catched up the Sheers , and the Taylor perceiving the stroke ; He nimbly stooped down , Yet she struck him on the Crown , that his head was most lamentably broke . O it vexed him to the heart , To feel the wound smart , and thus he did say in his rage ; If I could but get my Sword , Now I tell thee in a word , I've not fear with two such to engage . For by measures and my thimble , I would make thee to tremble , and to ask me forgiveness on thy knees , For this wound thou hast me given , To be sure I'll pay thee seven , for thou never knewest a weapon take fees . Then his Lap-board lying by , He catched it presently , and up to the Louse he came ; Quoth he , thou filthy creature , Who art so hateful to my nature , if I end not thy days i'm to blame . Quoth the Louse , I them sure my brood Is almost half your food , sitting cracking from morning till night And you stitch us here and there , Like a Rascal as you are , And yet now I'm abhorred in your sighed . But he quickly god his Yard , And the Louse was sorely scared , that under the shopboard she did creep , Quoth he are you there ? Come out if you dare , I will pay you with a Pox ever I sleep . And then the Taylor saw That the Louse would go to Law , Which made him willing to agree ; And because he would compound , He gave the Louse a crown , and by that means the Taylor god free . So then all was at peace , And these bloody wars did cease ; but the Taylor was so jeered up & amp ; down That his credit to maintain He has swore he'l fight again , if it were for a thousand pound . So my noble-hearted friends My story here it ends : and I wish you all to beware How the Taylor and the Louse Come to quarter in your house ; for you hear how desperate they are . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 