News from CRUTCHET-FRYERS . Being and Account of some notorious passages which not long since happened there , and will appear a shame to the Actors , not to be forgotten , nor concealed Being a great part of impudence , as you shall hear by the following Ditty . Tune is , Heigh Boys up go we . A Story strange I will declare , the like was never known ; [ ? ] I to you will make appear , and was but lately done : Some that were void of grace and shame , Merkins and Dildoes made , And threw them over their neighbours wall , this was a hopeful Trade . A Person of great worth and fame , whose Virtues well were known , These Sluts were minded to defame , as plainly shall be shown : God blessed her with Riches store , she liberal was and free ; And daily gave unto the poor , so good a Soul was she . But yet some envious Neighbours , they envied her happiness . And studied how to find a way their malice to express : Impudently they then did frame [ ? ] Stiff-standing Dildoes they did make , and put in Earthen-Pots ; With other things , a shame to speak , made by these foolish Sots , Which when they shamelessly had done , they threw them over the Wall , Their honest Neighbour to torment , and vex her therewithal . And being for this thing reproved , they seemed not ashamed , But civil People would be moved to hear such Baubles named : Where impudence is grounded in , there shame is banished quite ; In wantonness and other since they fix their whole delight . Good Neighbourhood is a dainty thing , which honest People love ; And does such great contentment bring , that malice can't remove : But envy from the Devil springs , [ ? ] Civility is banished quite , where envy gets root ; They study how to show their spite , and glory when heigh dooed : But it's a shame to Womenkind , such ugly things to frame , Which civil People scorn to mind , and are ashamed to name . Let civil People far and near , their impudence admire ; For of the like I never did hear , nor never more desire : Merkins and Dildoes made of Clouts , till now were never known ; And they were Plastered round about , to several they were shown . At these my Lines take no offence , Writ for no other end Than to set forth their impudence , who herein did offend : For 'twas indeed a perfect shame , that those called Women kind [ ? ] News from CRUTCHET-FRYERS . Being and Account of some notorious passages which not long since happened there , and will appear a shame to the Actors , not to be forgotten , nor concealed Being a great part of impudence , as you shall hear by the following Ditty . Tune is , Heigh Boys up go we . A Story strange I will declare , the like was never known ; [ ? ] I to you will make appear , and was but lately done : Some that were void of grace and shame , Merkins and Dildoes made , And threw them over their neighbours wall , this was a hopeful Trade . A Person of great worth and fame , whose Virtues well were known , These Sluts were minded to defame , as plainly shall be shown : God blessed her with Riches store , she liberal was and free ; And daily gave unto the poor , so good a Soul was she . But yet some envious Neighbours , they envied her happiness . And studied how to find a way their malice to express : Impudently they then did frame [ ? ] Stiff-standing Dildoes they did make , and put in Earthen-Pots ; With other things , a shame to speak , made by these foolish Sots , Which when they shamelessly had done , they threw them over the Wall , Their honest Neighbour to torment , and vex her therewithal . And being for this thing reproved , they seemed not ashamed , But civil People would be moved to hear such Baubles named : Where impudence is grounded in , there shame is banished quite ; In wantonness and other since they fix their whole delight . Good Neighbourhood is a dainty thing , which honest People love ; And does such great contentment bring , that malice can't remove : But envy from the Devil springs , [ ? ] Civility is banished quite , where envy gets root ; They study how to show their spite , and glory when heigh dooed : But it's a shame to Womenkind , such ugly things to frame , Which civil People scorn to mind , and are ashamed to name . Let civil People far and near , their impudence admire ; For of the like I never did hear , nor never more desire : Merkins and Dildoes made of Clouts , till now were never known ; And they were Plastered round about , to several they were shown . At these my Lines take no offence , Writ for no other end Than to set forth their impudence , who herein did offend : For 'twas indeed a perfect shame , that those called Women kind [ ? ] 