The Valiant Dairy-Maid ; OR , Three TAYLORS well Fitted . Showing how Three Tailors carried home Work to a Rich Farmers House , who having kindly Entertained them , and paid them their Money , were afterwards set upon and Robbed by Honest Joan the Dairy-Maid ; who Dressing her self in men Attire , frighted the poor Tailors out of both Wit and Money , by virtue of a Rouling-Pin . Being very Pleasant , full of Mirth , and worth your Money . To the Tune of , My Child must have a Father ; Or ; Billy and Molly . This may be Printed , R.P. TO Here were three Tailors , Tailors three , heigh down , derry , derry , There were three Tailors , Tailors three , I mean to make you Merry : There was a Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put three Tailors the to Run Sir . Three Tailors once brought home their work unto a Farmer's House Sir ; Who presently pass them their price , and gave them Beef and Souse Sir : But 'twas the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put three Tailors to the Run Sir . The Second part , To the same Tune . TO Heigh like three stout Champions did Eat the Farmer looked sour , And warned them for to Retreat , lest they should him Devour : But Joan the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir , But with a Ruling Pin did put three Tailors to the Run Sir . They eat the Meat , and picked the Bone , and then they ganged away Sir ; Having their Money paid them down , they would no longer stay Sir : I'll fright the hungry Rogues , quoth Joan , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin i'll put these Tailors to the Run Sir . Her Master quickly gave consent , and put her on Apparel , 'Twas so much Meat that they did eat , occasioned the Quarrel : The Maid revenged her Master's cause , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . With a Coat of Buff , did ding and Huff , until she found them out Sir ; With the Rouling-Pin she did them Cuff , for all they were so stout Sir : This was the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir , But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . O save our lives , and take our Wives , for we are no Beguilers , Do not our Goods and Money take , for we are honest Tailors : But Joan the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . Your lives , quoth Joan , lie at the stake if you do not Deliver ; Which pierced their hearts , & amp ; made them ache these words did make them quiver : And Joan did all their Money get , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . The Tailors knew not what to do , for fear their Wives would chide them , And for their Brats they must buy Sprats , or they would never abide them : For Joan the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; Did take their Money all away , and put them to the Run Sir . Back to the Farmers House they went , and humbly him entreated , That he on them would pity take , for they were sorely Cheated : This was the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . With many a Scoff , they did come off , when they a while had stayed Sir ; The Farmer told them 'twas a Trick of Joan his Servant Maid Sir : They swore that they would come no more unto the Farmers House Sir ; But eating Cucombers at home , they'll pass by Beef and Souse Sir . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Sign of the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . The Valiant Dairy-Maid ; OR , Three TAYLORS well Fitted . Showing how Three Tailors carried home Work to a Rich Farmers House , who having kindly Entertained them , and paid them their Money , were afterwards set upon and Robbed by Honest Joan the Dairy-Maid ; who Dressing her self in men Attire , frighted the poor Tailors out of both Wit and Money , by virtue of a Rouling-Pin . Being very Pleasant , full of Mirth , and worth your Money . To the Tune of , My Child must have a Father ; Or ; Billy and Molly . This may be Printed , R.P. TO Here were three Tailors , Tailors three , heigh down , derry , derry , There were three Tailors , Tailors three , I mean to make you Merry : There was a Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put three Tailors the to Run Sir . Three Tailors once brought home their work unto a Farmer's House Sir ; Who presently pass them their price , and gave them Beef and Souse Sir : But 'twas the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put three Tailors to the Run Sir . The Second part , To the same Tune . TO Heigh like three stout Champions did Eat the Farmer looked sour , And warned them for to Retreat , lest they should him Devour : But Joan the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir , But with a Ruling Pin did put three Tailors to the Run Sir . They eat the Meat , and picked the Bone , and then they ganged away Sir ; Having their Money paid them down , they would no longer stay Sir : I'll fright the hungry Rogues , quoth Joan , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin i'll put these Tailors to the Run Sir . Her Master quickly gave consent , and put her on Apparel , 'Twas so much Meat that they did eat , occasioned the Quarrel : The Maid revenged her Master's cause , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . With a Coat of Buff , did ding and Huff , until she found them out Sir ; With the Rouling-Pin she did them Cuff , for all they were so stout Sir : This was the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir , But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . O save our lives , and take our Wives , for we are no Beguilers , Do not our Goods and Money take , for we are honest Tailors : But Joan the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . Your lives , quoth Joan , lie at the stake if you do not Deliver ; Which pierced their hearts , & amp ; made them ache these words did make them quiver : And Joan did all their Money get , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . The Tailors knew not what to do , for fear their Wives would chide them , And for their Brats they must buy Sprats , or they would never abide them : For Joan the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; Did take their Money all away , and put them to the Run Sir . Back to the Farmers House they went , and humbly him entreated , That he on them would pity take , for they were sorely Cheated : This was the Valiant Dairy-Maid , without a Sword or Gun Sir ; But with a Rouling-Pin did put these Tailors to the Run Sir . With many a Scoff , they did come off , when they a while had stayed Sir ; The Farmer told them 'twas a Trick of Joan his Servant Maid Sir : They swore that they would come no more unto the Farmers House Sir ; But eating Cucombers at home , they'll pass by Beef and Souse Sir . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Sign of the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 