A Strange Banquet ; OR , The Devils Entertainment by Cook Laurel , at the Peak in Devonshire ; with a true Relation of the several Dishes . Tune is , Cook Laurel . C ook Laurel would have the Devil his guest And bid him home to Peak to Dinner , Where Fiend had never such a feast Prepared at the charge of a Sinner . with a heigh down , down and a down . His stomach was queasy , he came thither coached The joggings had caused his cruets to rise , To help which , he called for a Puritan poached That used to turn up the white of his eyes . with a heigh , etc And so he recovered unto his wish , He sat him down and began to eat : A Promoter in plum broth was the first dish His own Privy-Kitchen had no such meat . with a heigh , etc Yet though with this he was much taken , Upon a sudden he shifted his Trencher , As soon as he spied the Bawd and Bacon , By that it is plain the Devil's a wencher . with a heigh , etc Six pickled Tailors sliced and cut , With semsters & amp ; tire-women fit for his pallet With Feathermen and Perfumers put Some 12 in a charger to make a grand salad . with a heigh , etc A rich fat Usurer stewed in his marrow , With him a Lawyers head and green sauce ; All which his belly took like a barrel , As though till then he had never seen sauce . with a heigh , etc Then carbonadoed and cooked with pains , Was brought up a Cloven Sergeants face , The sauce was made of a Yeomans brains That had been beaten out with his Mace . with a heigh , etc 2 roasted Sherrifs came whole to the board , The feast had nothing been without they , Both living and dead were foxed and furred , & amp ; their chains like sassages hung about they with a heigh , etc The next dish was the Mayor of the town , With a pudding of maintenance put in's belly , Like a Goose in her feathers in his gown , With a couple of hinch-bois boiled to a jelly with a heigh , etc Next came the overworn Justice of Peace , with Clerks like gizzards stuck under each arm & amp ; warrants like sipits lay in his own grease Set over a Chafingdish to be kept warm . with a heigh , etc A London Cuckold came hight from the spit , And when the Carver had broken him open , The Devil chopped his head off at a bit , But the horns had almost like to choke him . with a heigh , etc A fair large Pasty of a Midwife hight , And for cold baked meat in this story , A reverend painted Lady was brought , Long Coffined in crust till now she's grown hoary . with a heigh , etc The loins of a Lecher then was roasted , With a plump Harlots head and Garlic , With a Panders Peti-toes that had boasted , Himself for a Capt. that never was warlike . with a heigh , etc Then boiled and stuck upon a prick , The Gizzard was brought of a holy sister , That bit made the Devil almost so sick , That the Dr. did think he had need of a glister with a heigh , etc The Jowl of a Jailor served for a Fish , A Constable souse , pist Vinegar by , Two Aldermen-Lobsters laid in a dish , A Deputy-Tart , and a Churchwarden Pie . with a heigh , etc All which devoured , then for a close , He did for a draught of Derby call ; He heaved the vessel up to his nose , And never left till he had drank up all . with a heigh , etc Then from the Table he gave a start , Where banquet and wine was not to seek , All which he blew away with a fart , & amp ; so it's called the Devils arse in the Peak . with a heigh down , down a down down . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Strange Banquet ; OR , The Devils Entertainment by Cook Laurel , at the Peak in Devonshire ; with a true Relation of the several Dishes . Tune is , Cook Laurel . C ook Laurel would have the Devil his guest And bid him home to Peak to Dinner , Where Fiend had never such a feast Prepared at the charge of a Sinner . with a heigh down , down and a down . His stomach was queasy , he came thither coached The joggings had caused his cruets to rise , To help which , he called for a Puritan poached That used to turn up the white of his eyes . with a heigh , etc And so he recovered unto his wish , He sat him down and began to eat : A Promoter in plum broth was the first dish His own Privy-Kitchen had no such meat . with a heigh , etc Yet though with this he was much taken , Upon a sudden he shifted his Trencher , As soon as he spied the Bawd and Bacon , By that it is plain the Devil's a wencher . with a heigh , etc Six pickled Tailors sliced and cut , With semsters & amp ; tire-women fit for his pallet With Feathermen and Perfumers put Some 12 in a charger to make a grand salad . with a heigh , etc A rich fat Usurer stewed in his marrow , With him a Lawyers head and green sauce ; All which his belly took like a barrel , As though till then he had never seen sauce . with a heigh , etc Then carbonadoed and cooked with pains , Was brought up a Cloven Sergeants face , The sauce was made of a Yeomans brains That had been beaten out with his Mace . with a heigh , etc 2 roasted Sherrifs came whole to the board , The feast had nothing been without they , Both living and dead were foxed and furred , & amp ; their chains like sassages hung about they with a heigh , etc The next dish was the Mayor of the town , With a pudding of maintenance put in's belly , Like a Goose in her feathers in his gown , With a couple of hinch-bois boiled to a jelly with a heigh , etc Next came the overworn Justice of Peace , with Clerks like gizzards stuck under each arm & amp ; warrants like sipits lay in his own grease Set over a Chafingdish to be kept warm . with a heigh , etc A London Cuckold came hight from the spit , And when the Carver had broken him open , The Devil chopped his head off at a bit , But the horns had almost like to choke him . with a heigh , etc A fair large Pasty of a Midwife hight , And for cold baked meat in this story , A reverend painted Lady was brought , Long Coffined in crust till now she's grown hoary . with a heigh , etc The loins of a Lecher then was roasted , With a plump Harlots head and Garlic , With a Panders Peti-toes that had boasted , Himself for a Capt. that never was warlike . with a heigh , etc Then boiled and stuck upon a prick , The Gizzard was brought of a holy sister , That bit made the Devil almost so sick , That the Dr. did think he had need of a glister with a heigh , etc The Jowl of a Jailor served for a Fish , A Constable souse , pist Vinegar by , Two Aldermen-Lobsters laid in a dish , A Deputy-Tart , and a Churchwarden Pie . with a heigh , etc All which devoured , then for a close , He did for a draught of Derby call ; He heaved the vessel up to his nose , And never left till he had drank up all . with a heigh , etc Then from the Table he gave a start , Where banquet and wine was not to seek , All which he blew away with a fart , & amp ; so it's called the Devils arse in the Peak . with a heigh down , down a down down . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 