Whipping TOM , Or , The deceitful KINSMAN . Maidens beware who you do trust , For promises may fail , And when you're bound for to obey , Your Prayers will not prevail . Tune , Awake O my Cloris . G Ive ear to my ditty , and I will declare , A Story most strange and wondered Rare : Such a Story before I do think was never told , Nor can be Rehearsed by young nor by old . In Hertfordshire County a maiden did live , Content to her master she no ways could give And and Orphan she was of indifferent parts , She had a dull wit , and of slender deserts . This maiden was troubled with some discontent , And so in a Pet from her master she went : But her flight and design did appear but in vain , For her Kinsman by searching soon found her again . He straight went to seek for to find the girl out , Which when he had done , he to banish her doubt With dissembling speeches this girl he betrayed And merely seduced this sorrowful Maid . And being by him thus drawn into a snare , With her Kinsman she went , who did strangely betray her , For he bid her cheer up and let sorrow cease , And he with her master would soon make her peace . Through Woods and by Paths , with her Kinsman she sent , And nothing did dream of his wicked intent , Till at last he did come to a place to his mind , And then to this girl he proved base and unkind . He tied this poor girl then full fast to a Tree , And never was girl so misused as she , About her head also her Coats he did tie When no one could hear her most sorrowful cry . Then Maidens beware when to Service you go Let your Actions be just , lest you are served so , For this girl she was whipped at a very strange Rate , And her Kinsman he proved a mere piece of deceit . And now all good people observe but this Weaver , Who seemed to be kind , but he was a deceiver : Such Kinsmen poor Maidens I wish you keep from , For there's none can prove worse then this whipping Tom. But if you do mean for to wander a while , To a Warren straight go give the Keeper a smile He may chance for to give you a Smock and a Beaver , And so I conclude , with this pitiful Weaver , Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . Whipping TOM , Or , The deceitful KINSMAN . Maidens beware who you do trust , For promises may fail , And when you're bound for to obey , Your Prayers will not prevail . Tune , Awake O my Cloris . G Ive ear to my ditty , and I will declare , A Story most strange and wondered Rare : Such a Story before I do think was never told , Nor can be Rehearsed by young nor by old . In Hertfordshire County a maiden did live , Content to her master she no ways could give And and Orphan she was of indifferent parts , She had a dull wit , and of slender deserts . This maiden was troubled with some discontent , And so in a Pet from her master she went : But her flight and design did appear but in vain , For her Kinsman by searching soon found her again . He straight went to seek for to find the girl out , Which when he had done , he to banish her doubt With dissembling speeches this girl he betrayed And merely seduced this sorrowful Maid . And being by him thus drawn into a snare , With her Kinsman she went , who did strangely betray her , For he bid her cheer up and let sorrow cease , And he with her master would soon make her peace . Through Woods and by Paths , with her Kinsman she sent , And nothing did dream of his wicked intent , Till at last he did come to a place to his mind , And then to this girl he proved base and unkind . He tied this poor girl then full fast to a Tree , And never was girl so misused as she , About her head also her Coats he did tie When no one could hear her most sorrowful cry . Then Maidens beware when to Service you go Let your Actions be just , lest you are served so , For this girl she was whipped at a very strange Rate , And her Kinsman he proved a mere piece of deceit . And now all good people observe but this Weaver , Who seemed to be kind , but he was a deceiver : Such Kinsmen poor Maidens I wish you keep from , For there's none can prove worse then this whipping Tom. But if you do mean for to wander a while , To a Warren straight go give the Keeper a smile He may chance for to give you a Smock and a Beaver , And so I conclude , with this pitiful Weaver , Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 