Yea & amp ; Nay the Quaker , Deceived : OR , The Tailors Cabbidge Discovered , Showing how a Taylor took a S atten Gown to make for a Lady , and how he Cabbidged four yards of the Satin out of it . To the Tune of , TO he Two English Travellers : Or , Packingtons P owned . This may be Printed , R.P. I Le tell you a jest if you'll listen a while , How a Tailors wife did her husband beguile , A Taylor he was , and he often would say , He did not love Cabbidge by Yea and by Nay . His Customers thinking that he did say true , They willingly brought him their work for to do , But he would deceive them and Cabidge would pinch , Nay if it was possible , out of and Inch. The Spirit forsook him his light it was out , He wandered in darkness then without all doubt . For one of the tricks which this Quaker did doe , The following lines will declare unto you . A Gown for a Lady he had for to make , And how much Cabbidge do you think he did take ? Then out of the piece of fine Satin so pure , Though Yea and Nay could not no Cabbidge endure , Four yards of this Satin the Taylor did take , Intending to use it for the Ladies sake , And for to secure it he put it in hell , Yea and Nay not dreading what after befell . The Gown for the Lady he put in a bag , And as if he would carry home e'ry rag , He took all the scraps and small bits he could see And put in the bag to vouch his honesty . He often deceived his Customers so , Some scraps and small pieces to them he would show Saying Yea and Nay , there was all that was left , That he by his cunning might colour his theft . His wife was a Quaker , more Zealous then he And would not to any such dealings agree , She thought by persuading him over and over , To make him live honest and Cabbidge no more . But this was a lesson too hard for to learn , Poor Yea and nay thought he but little could earn If he did not Cabbidge now and then a bit , So that he resolved for to do it yet . His wife seeing all her persuasions in vain , And that he in deeds of darkness did remain : The Spirit did move her , she thought it a since To let him so long to continue therein . Therefore to deceive the deceiver , straight she Went and took the four yards of Satin , which he Thought sure was good Cabbidge , but she put it down Into the bag , for to go home with the gown . The Taylor then taking the Bag , he did go To carry the Gown home , and the scraps also , Unto the same Lady for whom it was made , And when he came there unto him thus she said . Friend hast thou been honest and true unto me , And put all the Silk in the Gown I gave thee : With a Saintlike look he demurely did say , He did not love Cabbidge by Yea and by Nay . Said he , for to clear thee of any such doubt , I have brought what is left , then straight to pull out The Gown , and small pieces , the bag he untied , And pulled out his un-look'd-for Cabbide beside . O friend , said the Lady , I pray what is this , I find by my hand that you have done amiss , The Taylor perceiving his Cabbidge so near , Fell quaking and shaking with terrible fear . Then down on his Marrowbones straight he did fallen And humbly confessed the truth of it all : Thus often repeating in his quaking fit , Oh Satan , Oh Satan , was the cause of it . The Lady did pardon him since he did say , He never would do so no more by Yea and Nay : But if that he did he resolved in his mind , His wife should not know it , she was so unkind . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . Yea & amp ; Nay the Quaker , Deceived : OR , The Tailors Cabbidge Discovered , Showing how a Taylor took a S atten Gown to make for a Lady , and how he Cabbidged four yards of the Satin out of it . To the Tune of , TO he Two English Travellers : Or , Packingtons P owned . This may be Printed , R.P. I Le tell you a jest if you'll listen a while , How a Tailors wife did her husband beguile , A Taylor he was , and he often would say , He did not love Cabbidge by Yea and by Nay . His Customers thinking that he did say true , They willingly brought him their work for to do , But he would deceive them and Cabidge would pinch , Nay if it was possible , out of and Inch. The Spirit forsook him his light it was out , He wandered in darkness then without all doubt . For one of the tricks which this Quaker did doe , The following lines will declare unto you . A Gown for a Lady he had for to make , And how much Cabbidge do you think he did take ? Then out of the piece of fine Satin so pure , Though Yea and Nay could not no Cabbidge endure , Four yards of this Satin the Taylor did take , Intending to use it for the Ladies sake , And for to secure it he put it in hell , Yea and Nay not dreading what after befell . The Gown for the Lady he put in a bag , And as if he would carry home e'ry rag , He took all the scraps and small bits he could see And put in the bag to vouch his honesty . He often deceived his Customers so , Some scraps and small pieces to them he would show Saying Yea and Nay , there was all that was left , That he by his cunning might colour his theft . His wife was a Quaker , more Zealous then he And would not to any such dealings agree , She thought by persuading him over and over , To make him live honest and Cabbidge no more . But this was a lesson too hard for to learn , Poor Yea and nay thought he but little could earn If he did not Cabbidge now and then a bit , So that he resolved for to do it yet . His wife seeing all her persuasions in vain , And that he in deeds of darkness did remain : The Spirit did move her , she thought it a since To let him so long to continue therein . Therefore to deceive the deceiver , straight she Went and took the four yards of Satin , which he Thought sure was good Cabbidge , but she put it down Into the bag , for to go home with the gown . The Taylor then taking the Bag , he did go To carry the Gown home , and the scraps also , Unto the same Lady for whom it was made , And when he came there unto him thus she said . Friend hast thou been honest and true unto me , And put all the Silk in the Gown I gave thee : With a Saintlike look he demurely did say , He did not love Cabbidge by Yea and by Nay . Said he , for to clear thee of any such doubt , I have brought what is left , then straight to pull out The Gown , and small pieces , the bag he untied , And pulled out his un-look'd-for Cabbide beside . O friend , said the Lady , I pray what is this , I find by my hand that you have done amiss , The Taylor perceiving his Cabbidge so near , Fell quaking and shaking with terrible fear . Then down on his Marrowbones straight he did fallen And humbly confessed the truth of it all : Thus often repeating in his quaking fit , Oh Satan , Oh Satan , was the cause of it . The Lady did pardon him since he did say , He never would do so no more by Yea and Nay : But if that he did he resolved in his mind , His wife should not know it , she was so unkind . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 