THE Cheater Cheated : OR , Sauce for the GOOSE is good for the GANDER , Being and Account of a Famous Foot-Race on Tetnal - Wood , near Woolver-Hampton in Staffordshire , where many Londoners that intended to Bubble , by Bribing the Racer , were fairly Outdone by the Honest Country Men . To the Tune of , Hark the Thundering Cannons Roar . This may be Printed , R.P. K Ind Gentlemen let me request You lend your ears to hear a Jest , Pure as ever was expressed , in Rusty Rhime and Reason ; Tongue and Moore ( swift Footmen ) are Agreed for to Run with a full Career , On Tetnal Wood in Staffordshire , within the Verge of Season . The day perfixt to all Men known , Brave Londoners came Trooping down , With Rich Fobbs to Hampton Town , confiding them to double ; And to make their Spankers sure , A base Booty-Match they soon procure , Giving Gold to Runner Moore , his Countrymen to Bubble . Then they follow on their Chase , Guinnies daily drop apace , Betting roundly on the Raze , till little was remaining ; Mean while M oore perplexed in mind , For that to a Paper he had Signed , Rest not where that he could find , within himself complaining . Ah! what hard hap had I to choose This cursed way my Friends to lose , Rogues they are that me abuse , in driving such a Bargain ; In good time a Friend draws near , Speaking so loud that he makes him hear , Courage Dick , thou needest not dear , the Bond's not worth a Farthing . H Is heart with joy leaps to his Throat , He quickly changes now his Note , Spirits [ ? ] ht are all afloat , he s [ ? ] s to Friends acquainted , Wishing them no call to spare , But take up Bets wherever they are , With what Mortal Weights they dare , and not at all be daunted . Now time is come they take the Ground , Where People thousands may be found , Rustics Betting all the round , of good Returns never doubting ; Stripped , they start , each other tries , What speed is had for to gain the Prize , Dick M oore Wins , and all the Skies are rend and torn with Shouting . Citts confounded at their their State , Stark-mad to hear the Rabble prate , Leave the Ground with deadly hate , bidding Devil Damn them ; Jogging on , says one , I find , From the matters that are left behind , If Hell prove not still unkind , in spite of Fate we'll Sham them . S turgeon hath of Bets great store , Full two hundred pound or more , Which if gained will gaul them soar , I hope to leave them panting ; Forty pound which we have had , Out of a Bet Guinny Bag , To yield to us will make her glad , for so much will be wanting . To pay for Quarters in they go , The Drawer called , they Danger show , What is said is said below , where strong M arch - Beer and Ale is ; Soon convinced , she gives consent , while none but themselves know what is meant ; Away she Swims incontinent , with Summee ( Boys ) Totalls . The Game played up , I now must end , Advising all Men as a Friend , In good sort their time to spend , dreading Hells Confusion ; When as Ditties they do make , This is the way that the Poets take , Sinful Creatures to awake , before they make Conclusion . FINIS . Printed for P. B rooksby , in Pye-Corner . THE Cheater Cheated : OR , Sauce for the GOOSE is good for the GANDER , Being and Account of a Famous Foot-Race on Tetnal - Wood , near Woolver-Hampton in Staffordshire , where many Londoners that intended to Bubble , by Bribing the Racer , were fairly Outdone by the Honest Country Men . To the Tune of , Hark the Thundering Cannons Roar . This may be Printed , R.P. K Ind Gentlemen let me request You lend your ears to hear a Jest , Pure as ever was expressed , in Rusty Rhime and Reason ; Tongue and Moore ( swift Footmen ) are Agreed for to Run with a full Career , On Tetnal Wood in Staffordshire , within the Verge of Season . The day perfixt to all Men known , Brave Londoners came Trooping down , With Rich Fobbs to Hampton Town , confiding them to double ; And to make their Spankers sure , A base Booty-Match they soon procure , Giving Gold to Runner Moore , his Countrymen to Bubble . Then they follow on their Chase , Guinnies daily drop apace , Betting roundly on the Raze , till little was remaining ; Mean while M oore perplexed in mind , For that to a Paper he had Signed , Rest not where that he could find , within himself complaining . Ah! what hard hap had I to choose This cursed way my Friends to lose , Rogues they are that me abuse , in driving such a Bargain ; In good time a Friend draws near , Speaking so loud that he makes him hear , Courage Dick , thou needest not dear , the Bond's not worth a Farthing . H Is heart with joy leaps to his Throat , He quickly changes now his Note , Spirits [ ? ] ht are all afloat , he s [ ? ] s to Friends acquainted , Wishing them no call to spare , But take up Bets wherever they are , With what Mortal Weights they dare , and not at all be daunted . Now time is come they take the Ground , Where People thousands may be found , Rustics Betting all the round , of good Returns never doubting ; Stripped , they start , each other tries , What speed is had for to gain the Prize , Dick M oore Wins , and all the Skies are rend and torn with Shouting . Citts confounded at their their State , Stark-mad to hear the Rabble prate , Leave the Ground with deadly hate , bidding Devil Damn them ; Jogging on , says one , I find , From the matters that are left behind , If Hell prove not still unkind , in spite of Fate we'll Sham them . S turgeon hath of Bets great store , Full two hundred pound or more , Which if gained will gaul them soar , I hope to leave them panting ; Forty pound which we have had , Out of a Bet Guinny Bag , To yield to us will make her glad , for so much will be wanting . To pay for Quarters in they go , The Drawer called , they Danger show , What is said is said below , where strong M arch - Beer and Ale is ; Soon convinced , she gives consent , while none but themselves know what is meant ; Away she Swims incontinent , with Summee ( Boys ) Totalls . The Game played up , I now must end , Advising all Men as a Friend , In good sort their time to spend , dreading Hells Confusion ; When as Ditties they do make , This is the way that the Poets take , Sinful Creatures to awake , before they make Conclusion . FINIS . Printed for P. B rooksby , in Pye-Corner . 