The Wonder of this present Age . OR , And Account of a MONSTER Born in the Liberty of Westminster , on the 16 th . of this Instant September , 1687. Having two Heads , four Arms and Hands ; as likewise four Legs and Feet , yet but one Body from the lower parts to the Breast , they seem to Embrace one another , and lie face to face , as if they would Salute , to the Wonder and Admiration of all Spectators . Tune of Young men Legacy . This may be Printed , R.P. C Ome listen now both Young and Old , to this strange Wonder of the Land , And when the Truth I do unfold , you will in admiration stand . September on the sixteenth day , it being Friday in the Morn , Near to St. Gileses I hear say , there was indeed a Monster Born . I saw it , so did many more , who did unto that place arrive , The like was never beheld before , sure by the oldest Man alive . To tell the shape I now do mean , according to my chiefest Skill ; God grant the like may never be seen , if it be his most gracious will . I speak no more then what I know , as here I solemnly protest , Two Infants did together grow , from the lower parts up to the breast . As if one Body and no more , four legs and feet there was likewise Two pair of Hips , now this therefore , did the Spectators much surprise . Two Male-Children they were indeed . as by their parts it did appear : Nay farther now I must proceed , to tell this mighty Wonder here . Then from their breasts as many knows two little pretty Babes they were , Their very Heads as black as slows , with locks of soft and downy Hair . Some Women that the sighed beheld , when they these babes approached nigh They were alas , with sorrow filled , to so how these sweet Lambs did lie . For they both lay with Face to Face , which would the Hearts of mother's move , And with their Arms they did embrace , as if in most entire Love , Their little arms as white as snow , their pretiy Fingers long and small ; Not one in twenty that does go to see them , but some Tears do fallen . Heads , Arms , and Legs , nothing amiss , in perfect shape as if for two , But yet the greatest wonder's this , to see how they together grew . They were Deadborn , therefore we know , this fit we should due praises give To God , who did his kindness show , in not ordaining them to live . For the poor Parents , we may guess , it would have been a grief to see Them live and languish in Distress , with such a strange Deformity . Through London now this true Report , much admiration does afford , So that great numbers do resort , to see the wonders of the Lord . Let us from since our Lives reclaim , that we Gods Anger may escape , How ought we to adore his Name , that granted us our Humane shape . Now to the Lord , Oh let us pray , with Hearts of true sincerity , That never tender Mother may behold the like deformity . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded - Spur-Street , without Newgate . The Wonder of this present Age . OR , And Account of a MONSTER Born in the Liberty of Westminster , on the 16 th . of this Instant September , 1687. Having two Heads , four Arms and Hands ; as likewise four Legs and Feet , yet but one Body from the lower parts to the Breast , they seem to Embrace one another , and lie face to face , as if they would Salute , to the Wonder and Admiration of all Spectators . Tune of Young men Legacy . This may be Printed , R.P. C Ome listen now both Young and Old , to this strange Wonder of the Land , And when the Truth I do unfold , you will in admiration stand . September on the sixteenth day , it being Friday in the Morn , Near to St. Gileses I hear say , there was indeed a Monster Born . I saw it , so did many more , who did unto that place arrive , The like was never beheld before , sure by the oldest Man alive . To tell the shape I now do mean , according to my chiefest Skill ; God grant the like may never be seen , if it be his most gracious will . I speak no more then what I know , as here I solemnly protest , Two Infants did together grow , from the lower parts up to the breast . As if one Body and no more , four legs and feet there was likewise Two pair of Hips , now this therefore , did the Spectators much surprise . Two Male-Children they were indeed . as by their parts it did appear : Nay farther now I must proceed , to tell this mighty Wonder here . Then from their breasts as many knows two little pretty Babes they were , Their very Heads as black as slows , with locks of soft and downy Hair . Some Women that the sighed beheld , when they these babes approached nigh They were alas , with sorrow filled , to so how these sweet Lambs did lie . For they both lay with Face to Face , which would the Hearts of mother's move , And with their Arms they did embrace , as if in most entire Love , Their little arms as white as snow , their pretiy Fingers long and small ; Not one in twenty that does go to see them , but some Tears do fallen . Heads , Arms , and Legs , nothing amiss , in perfect shape as if for two , But yet the greatest wonder's this , to see how they together grew . They were Deadborn , therefore we know , this fit we should due praises give To God , who did his kindness show , in not ordaining them to live . For the poor Parents , we may guess , it would have been a grief to see Them live and languish in Distress , with such a strange Deformity . Through London now this true Report , much admiration does afford , So that great numbers do resort , to see the wonders of the Lord . Let us from since our Lives reclaim , that we Gods Anger may escape , How ought we to adore his Name , that granted us our Humane shape . Now to the Lord , Oh let us pray , with Hearts of true sincerity , That never tender Mother may behold the like deformity . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded - Spur-Street , without Newgate . 