Poor Robins Dream ; commonly called Poor Charity . I know no Reason but this harmless Riddle May as well be Printed as Sung to a Fiddle . To a complete Tune , well known by Musicians , and many others : Or , A game at cards . H Owe now good fellow what all amort ; I pray thee tell me what is the news , Trading is dead and I am sorry fored which makes me look worse then I use , If a man hath no employment whereby to get a penny he hath no enjoyment if that he wants money And Charity is not used by many . I have nothing to spend nor i've nothing to lend i've nothing to do , I tarry at home , Sitting in my Chair , drawing near to the fire , I fell into a sleep like and idle drone . And as I slept I fell into a dream , I see a Play acted without ever Theam , But I could not tell what the Play did mean . But afterwards I did perceive and something more I did understand , The Stage was the world wherein we live , the Actors they were all mankind , And when the play is ended the Stage down they fling then there will be no difference in this thing , Between a Beggar and a King . The first that Acted I protest , was Time with a Glass & amp ; a Sith in his hand With the Globe of the World upon his breast , to show that he could the same command : There's a time for to work , and a time for to play a time for to borrow , and a time for to pay , And a time that does call us all away , C Onscience in order takes his place , and very gallantly plays his part , He fears not to fly in a Rulers face , although it cuts him to the heart : He tells him that all this is the later Age Which put the Actors into such a rage , That they kicked poor Conscience off the stage . Plain-Dealing presently appears in habit like a simple man , The Actors at him mocks and jears ; pointing their fingers as they ran : How came this fellow into our company , away with him many a gallant did cry . For Plain-dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage , but he was clothed in gallant attire , He was acquainted with Youth and Age , many his company did desire ; They entertained him in their very breast , There he could have harbour , and quietly rest , For Dissemblers and Turncoats fare the best . Then comes in poor Charity methinks she looked wondrous old , She quivered and she quaked most piteously , it grieved me to think she was grown so cold : She had been i'th' City , & amp ; in the Country , among the Lawyers and Nobility , But there was no room for poor Charity . Then in comes Truth , not clothed in Wool , but like unto youth in his white Laun sleeves And says the Land it is full , full , full , too full of Rebels worse than Thieves . The City's full of poverty , the French are full of pride Fanatics full of Envy , which order can't abide And the Usurers Bags are full beside . Hark how Bellona is Drums they do beatrice , methinks they go rattling through the Town Hark how they thunder through the street as though they would shake the Chimneys down , Then comes in Mars , the great God of War , And bids us face about and be as we were : But when I awaked I sat in my Chair . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Poor Robins Dream ; commonly called Poor Charity . I know no Reason but this harmless Riddle May as well be Printed as Sung to a Fiddle . To a complete Tune , well known by Musicians , and many others : Or , A game at cards . H Owe now good fellow what all amort ; I pray thee tell me what is the news , Trading is dead and I am sorry fored which makes me look worse then I use , If a man hath no employment whereby to get a penny he hath no enjoyment if that he wants money And Charity is not used by many . I have nothing to spend nor i've nothing to lend i've nothing to do , I tarry at home , Sitting in my Chair , drawing near to the fire , I fell into a sleep like and idle drone . And as I slept I fell into a dream , I see a Play acted without ever Theam , But I could not tell what the Play did mean . But afterwards I did perceive and something more I did understand , The Stage was the world wherein we live , the Actors they were all mankind , And when the play is ended the Stage down they fling then there will be no difference in this thing , Between a Beggar and a King . The first that Acted I protest , was Time with a Glass & amp ; a Sith in his hand With the Globe of the World upon his breast , to show that he could the same command : There's a time for to work , and a time for to play a time for to borrow , and a time for to pay , And a time that does call us all away , C Onscience in order takes his place , and very gallantly plays his part , He fears not to fly in a Rulers face , although it cuts him to the heart : He tells him that all this is the later Age Which put the Actors into such a rage , That they kicked poor Conscience off the stage . Plain-Dealing presently appears in habit like a simple man , The Actors at him mocks and jears ; pointing their fingers as they ran : How came this fellow into our company , away with him many a gallant did cry . For Plain-dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage , but he was clothed in gallant attire , He was acquainted with Youth and Age , many his company did desire ; They entertained him in their very breast , There he could have harbour , and quietly rest , For Dissemblers and Turncoats fare the best . Then comes in poor Charity methinks she looked wondrous old , She quivered and she quaked most piteously , it grieved me to think she was grown so cold : She had been i'th' City , & amp ; in the Country , among the Lawyers and Nobility , But there was no room for poor Charity . Then in comes Truth , not clothed in Wool , but like unto youth in his white Laun sleeves And says the Land it is full , full , full , too full of Rebels worse than Thieves . The City's full of poverty , the French are full of pride Fanatics full of Envy , which order can't abide And the Usurers Bags are full beside . Hark how Bellona is Drums they do beatrice , methinks they go rattling through the Town Hark how they thunder through the street as though they would shake the Chimneys down , Then comes in Mars , the great God of War , And bids us face about and be as we were : But when I awaked I sat in my Chair . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 