ROGER'S Delight : OR , The WEST - Country Christening , and Gossipping . To and Excellent New Tune : Or , Cold and Raw . Licensed according to Order . W Hen Sol had left his weary Teams , and turned his Steeds a grazing , Ten Fathom deep in Neptune's Streams , he his Thetis lay Embracing ; The Stars trip in the Firmament , like School-Boys on a Playday ; The Country Lasses a Mumming went , like Milk-Maids on a May day . Then apace grew on the gray Morn , when the Herdsman flocks were Lowing , And among the Poultry in the Barn , the Plowman's Cocks were Crowing ; While Roger he dreamed of Golden Joys , was walked by a Rebel-rout Sir , But Cicely she tells him he needs must rise , for his Juggy was crying out Sir . Not half so merry the Cup went round , as the Tapping of good Ale-Firkin , Then Roger his Hose and Shoes had found , and buttoned his leathern Jerkin ; Gray Mare was Saddled with wondrous speed , with Pillion and Buttock aright Sir , And for and old Midwife away he road , to bring the poor Kid to light Sir . O good Mother I pray get up , for the Fruits of my Labour it's now come , And there it lies struggling in Juggy's Womb , but it cannot get out till you come . I'll help her , quoth the old Hag , never doubt , thy Juggy shall be well again Boy , And I'm warrant that I'se get the Kid out as well as thou gottest it in Boy . Grey Mare they mount , and away they ride , no Whip nor Spur was wanting ; As soon as the old Hag entered the Room , then Hoop cried out the Bantling : A Female Chit , so small it was born , you might put it into a Flaggin , And it must be Christened that very Morn , for fear it should die a Pagan . Then Robin and Doll with constant Kate were Gossips for this Great Christening , And the good Wives did merrily prate , while Juggy in Bed lay listening : They talked of this , and they talked of that , of Chatting they were not sparing ; Some said it was so small a Brat , that hardly it was worth the rearing . Then Roger he strutted about the Hall , as great as the Prince of Conde ; What if her Parts they are but small , they will be bigger one-day : What if her Legs and Thighs lie close , as little as any Spider , You need not fear , ever seventeen years , she'll lig them a little wider ; For then she'll be a Woman grown , I'll lay Five pounds in Money , And have a little One of her own , as well as Jug my Honey : These will be joyful days to see , I'll study for to advance her , That Juggy may a Granny be , then I shall be a Grandsir . The Nappy Ale went fairly round , as brown as any Berry , With which the good Wives being Crowned . they all was brisk and merry ; While Roger he turned Cups over his Thumb to every honest Neighbour , Saying , A Twelvemonth hence pray come , once more to my Juggy's Labour . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . ROGER'S Delight : OR , The WEST - Country Christening , and Gossipping . To and Excellent New Tune : Or , Cold and Raw . Licensed according to Order . W Hen Sol had left his weary Teams , and turned his Steeds a grazing , Ten Fathom deep in Neptune's Streams , he his Thetis lay Embracing ; The Stars trip in the Firmament , like School-Boys on a Playday ; The Country Lasses a Mumming went , like Milk-Maids on a May day . Then apace grew on the gray Morn , when the Herdsman flocks were Lowing , And among the Poultry in the Barn , the Plowman's Cocks were Crowing ; While Roger he dreamed of Golden Joys , was walked by a Rebel-rout Sir , But Cicely she tells him he needs must rise , for his Juggy was crying out Sir . Not half so merry the Cup went round , as the Tapping of good Ale-Firkin , Then Roger his Hose and Shoes had found , and buttoned his leathern Jerkin ; Gray Mare was Saddled with wondrous speed , with Pillion and Buttock aright Sir , And for and old Midwife away he road , to bring the poor Kid to light Sir . O good Mother I pray get up , for the Fruits of my Labour it's now come , And there it lies struggling in Juggy's Womb , but it cannot get out till you come . I'll help her , quoth the old Hag , never doubt , thy Juggy shall be well again Boy , And I'm warrant that I'se get the Kid out as well as thou gottest it in Boy . Grey Mare they mount , and away they ride , no Whip nor Spur was wanting ; As soon as the old Hag entered the Room , then Hoop cried out the Bantling : A Female Chit , so small it was born , you might put it into a Flaggin , And it must be Christened that very Morn , for fear it should die a Pagan . Then Robin and Doll with constant Kate were Gossips for this Great Christening , And the good Wives did merrily prate , while Juggy in Bed lay listening : They talked of this , and they talked of that , of Chatting they were not sparing ; Some said it was so small a Brat , that hardly it was worth the rearing . Then Roger he strutted about the Hall , as great as the Prince of Conde ; What if her Parts they are but small , they will be bigger one-day : What if her Legs and Thighs lie close , as little as any Spider , You need not fear , ever seventeen years , she'll lig them a little wider ; For then she'll be a Woman grown , I'll lay Five pounds in Money , And have a little One of her own , as well as Jug my Honey : These will be joyful days to see , I'll study for to advance her , That Juggy may a Granny be , then I shall be a Grandsir . The Nappy Ale went fairly round , as brown as any Berry , With which the good Wives being Crowned . they all was brisk and merry ; While Roger he turned Cups over his Thumb to every honest Neighbour , Saying , A Twelvemonth hence pray come , once more to my Juggy's Labour . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 