A Trial of skill , performed by a poor decayed Gentlewoman , Who cheated a rich Grazier of Sevenscore pound , and left him a Child to keep . If you will know , then listen a while , And you shall know that which will make you smile . The Tune is , Ragged and Torn . K Ind Countrymen list to my Ditty , I pray you what ever you be , I know that my case you will pity , I pray then take warning by me . Sevenscore pounds I did loose , beside a fine Babe at Nurse : My Sweetheart she did me abuse , and left me no Coin in my Purse : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made Poor , when as they keep more then their own . I brought some Cattle to Town , and sold them for Sevenscore pound ; But moneyless then I went home , with sorrow encompassed round : A dainty fine Cloak-bag I had , within it my treasure I laid , My fortune now makes me sad , to think how that I was betrayed Take heed , etc As through Cheapside I did pass , mistrusting no manner of harm , I met with a proud decayed Lass , with a pretty fine Child in her arm : She seemed in habit , to be a Gentlewoman that was made poor , She asked relief then of me , then I thought to have made her my whore : Quoth she , pray yield some relief , these words then unto me she said , Unto a poor wretch full of grief , a poor Gentlewoman decayed : Fair Mistress quoth I , I do grieve , to see you so distressed be , But I all your wants will relieve . if you will be ruled by me : Take heed , etc Go with me unto my Inn , and there you shall lie at your ease , You never was brought up to Spin , but Gentlemens humours to please : I'll tell them that you are my wife , and this is my Child that you have , 'Twas I that did breed all the strife , and with my self played the Knave . Take heed , etc She seemed to be overjoyed , and cast a Sheeps eye upon me , She could not be better employed , and so we did quickly agree : When unto the Inn I did come , her fingers did itch at my Pelf , I called for a large fair Room , for my Wife my Child and my self : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made poor , when as they keep more then their own . A Dainty fine Supper we had , and brought up unto us with speed But all the charge lay upon me , I paid for it soundly indeed : Now when she had supped I kissed her , and she was as willing as I , But would to God that I had missed her , and her decayed Gentility : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made Poor , when as they keep more then their own . Down stairs then softly she went , and called for my Cloackbag with speed This Harlot was surely bent , for to undo me with speed , My night-clothes are in it quoth she , such mischief in Harlots are rife , He gave her my Cloak-bag most free , as thinking she had been my wife : Take heed , etc She cunningly slunk out of doors , when no body did her mind , I may bid a pox of all Whores , for leaving her Bastard behind : Now farewell my sevenscore pound , Lullaby must be my Song , I'm left like a Horse in the pound , it's I that must suffer the wrong : Take heed , etc I called her to come unto bed , not thinking I had been undone , I looked like a man had been dead , when as I perceived she was gone : I fretted , I fumed , and swore , the Child had god a new Dad And when I began for to roar , the people did think I was mad : Take heed , etc The Chamberlain run up amain , sir , what is the matter , quoth he , Oh call back that woman again , for she hath quite ruined me : She leaveth her Bastard behind her , on purpose to shorten my life , Oh prithee see if thou canst find her , for why ? she is none of my wife : Take heed , etc But where is my Cloak-bag I pray , for theirin lies all my gains : I gave it your wife by my faith , then would you were hanged for your pains You called your wife and your honey , why should not your wife then be bold , To have the command of your money , your Cloak-bag , your Silver and Gold : Take heed , etc The Child lay crying apace , and I lay swearing as fast , To understand rightly my case , the Inn keeper came at the last : When he understood the matter , he said he was glad 'twas no worse , He told me that he would not flatter , for I must provide me a nurse : Take heed , etc I'm sorry you met with this Varlet , the cause of your sorrow and grief , But you would have made her your Harlot , if she had not proved a Thief : You wanted a bit for your Cat , to purge out your mad mallencholly , I pray you think wisely of that , for you have paid well for your folly : Take heed , etc This was all the comfort he gave , I never was so beguiled , The folks in the house did outbrave me , and bid me provide for my Child : I carried my Child unto Nurse , to end all the trouble and strife , With never a groat in my Purse , I went unto my Wife : Take heed , etc No wonder that meat is so dear , the Grazier so pincheth the Poor , But now it does it does plainly appear , the Grazier maintaineth a Whore : Since Wenches so chargeable are , the Grazier had need to be witty , If ever it should be his care , to fetch his loss out of the City . Take heed of bad women therefore , etc FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Trial of skill , performed by a poor decayed Gentlewoman , Who cheated a rich Grazier of Sevenscore pound , and left him a Child to keep . If you will know , then listen a while , And you shall know that which will make you smile . The Tune is , Ragged and Torn . K Ind Countrymen list to my Ditty , I pray you what ever you be , I know that my case you will pity , I pray then take warning by me . Sevenscore pounds I did loose , beside a fine Babe at Nurse : My Sweetheart she did me abuse , and left me no Coin in my Purse : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made Poor , when as they keep more then their own . I brought some Cattle to Town , and sold them for Sevenscore pound ; But moneyless then I went home , with sorrow encompassed round : A dainty fine Cloak-bag I had , within it my treasure I laid , My fortune now makes me sad , to think how that I was betrayed Take heed , etc As through Cheapside I did pass , mistrusting no manner of harm , I met with a proud decayed Lass , with a pretty fine Child in her arm : She seemed in habit , to be a Gentlewoman that was made poor , She asked relief then of me , then I thought to have made her my whore : Quoth she , pray yield some relief , these words then unto me she said , Unto a poor wretch full of grief , a poor Gentlewoman decayed : Fair Mistress quoth I , I do grieve , to see you so distressed be , But I all your wants will relieve . if you will be ruled by me : Take heed , etc Go with me unto my Inn , and there you shall lie at your ease , You never was brought up to Spin , but Gentlemens humours to please : I'll tell them that you are my wife , and this is my Child that you have , 'Twas I that did breed all the strife , and with my self played the Knave . Take heed , etc She seemed to be overjoyed , and cast a Sheeps eye upon me , She could not be better employed , and so we did quickly agree : When unto the Inn I did come , her fingers did itch at my Pelf , I called for a large fair Room , for my Wife my Child and my self : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made poor , when as they keep more then their own . A Dainty fine Supper we had , and brought up unto us with speed But all the charge lay upon me , I paid for it soundly indeed : Now when she had supped I kissed her , and she was as willing as I , But would to God that I had missed her , and her decayed Gentility : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made Poor , when as they keep more then their own . Down stairs then softly she went , and called for my Cloackbag with speed This Harlot was surely bent , for to undo me with speed , My night-clothes are in it quoth she , such mischief in Harlots are rife , He gave her my Cloak-bag most free , as thinking she had been my wife : Take heed , etc She cunningly slunk out of doors , when no body did her mind , I may bid a pox of all Whores , for leaving her Bastard behind : Now farewell my sevenscore pound , Lullaby must be my Song , I'm left like a Horse in the pound , it's I that must suffer the wrong : Take heed , etc I called her to come unto bed , not thinking I had been undone , I looked like a man had been dead , when as I perceived she was gone : I fretted , I fumed , and swore , the Child had god a new Dad And when I began for to roar , the people did think I was mad : Take heed , etc The Chamberlain run up amain , sir , what is the matter , quoth he , Oh call back that woman again , for she hath quite ruined me : She leaveth her Bastard behind her , on purpose to shorten my life , Oh prithee see if thou canst find her , for why ? she is none of my wife : Take heed , etc But where is my Cloak-bag I pray , for theirin lies all my gains : I gave it your wife by my faith , then would you were hanged for your pains You called your wife and your honey , why should not your wife then be bold , To have the command of your money , your Cloak-bag , your Silver and Gold : Take heed , etc The Child lay crying apace , and I lay swearing as fast , To understand rightly my case , the Inn keeper came at the last : When he understood the matter , he said he was glad 'twas no worse , He told me that he would not flatter , for I must provide me a nurse : Take heed , etc I'm sorry you met with this Varlet , the cause of your sorrow and grief , But you would have made her your Harlot , if she had not proved a Thief : You wanted a bit for your Cat , to purge out your mad mallencholly , I pray you think wisely of that , for you have paid well for your folly : Take heed , etc This was all the comfort he gave , I never was so beguiled , The folks in the house did outbrave me , and bid me provide for my Child : I carried my Child unto Nurse , to end all the trouble and strife , With never a groat in my Purse , I went unto my Wife : Take heed , etc No wonder that meat is so dear , the Grazier so pincheth the Poor , But now it does it does plainly appear , the Grazier maintaineth a Whore : Since Wenches so chargeable are , the Grazier had need to be witty , If ever it should be his care , to fetch his loss out of the City . Take heed of bad women therefore , etc FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 