The Old men Sayings Concerning the Alteration of the Times . Being and account of and ancient Man of Fourscore and ten Years of age , that gave this relation to a friend , of the difference of the times since his remembrance , and desired that it might be Printed for the satisfaction of all people . TO une is , The two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R. P. W Hen I was a Youngman , as some of you be , Brave flourishing days in the Land I did see , But now the times altered , my neighbour and friend , Which is now the reason these Lines I have penned , For Men to turn Antics , is counted a toy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Men was not so wicked then in all their ways , For they loved one another then in the Old Days , Rich men they scorned then to wrong the poor , But rather was willing , to increase their store , But now Pride and envy , it is all their joy , But the times they were better when I was a Boy . Trading was quicker , and money was free , And neighbours in e'ry town , lived lovingly , But now they had rather to scold and to brawl , And does not seem willing , upon God to call ; For baseness and wickedness , is now their joy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Poor Tradesmen lived better far , then now they do , Where they have a Shilling now , then they had two , But now times are altered , since Money grew scant , They hardly can get enough , to pay their rend : For Landlords their Tenants , do sorely annoy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Hatred and malice then was not so rife , Nor Lawyers so Fed , for to end a great strife : For brotherly Love , did in most men remain , But now all such doings , is held in disdain , To undo one another , they make it their joy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Of Gods Commandments , Men stood in fear , And loved the King and their Country so dear , Men was not so treacherous in all their ways , There was no such Rebels , as is nowadays , For to practice all goodness , they made it their joy , For the times , etc - All wicked actions men seemed to hate , Which will be too tedious for me to relate : As Whoredom and Drunkenness , was not so rife , For most Men in those days , lived a civil life : But now such debaucherous tricks is their joy , But the times , etc Then Husband and Wife , they enjoyed their peace , And God gave a blessing unto their increase ; Then Children were dutiful , now they're not so , For they learn to swear when they newly can go : And the Parents that hear them , count it but a toy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Men were not so fickle to turn with the wind , To laugh in your face , and kill you behind ; For truly the times they are altered so , It's a hard thing to know a men friend from his foe : For flattery and falsehood is many a men joy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . And so for conclusion , I now make and end , And hope that this Song , will no person offend , But say what you will the truth is the truth , There was better living when I was a Youth ; Then to love one another , let's make it our joy , For the times they were better , when I was a Boy . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . The Old men Sayings Concerning the Alteration of the Times . Being and account of and ancient Man of Fourscore and ten Years of age , that gave this relation to a friend , of the difference of the times since his remembrance , and desired that it might be Printed for the satisfaction of all people . TO une is , The two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R. P. W Hen I was a Youngman , as some of you be , Brave flourishing days in the Land I did see , But now the times altered , my neighbour and friend , Which is now the reason these Lines I have penned , For Men to turn Antics , is counted a toy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Men was not so wicked then in all their ways , For they loved one another then in the Old Days , Rich men they scorned then to wrong the poor , But rather was willing , to increase their store , But now Pride and envy , it is all their joy , But the times they were better when I was a Boy . Trading was quicker , and money was free , And neighbours in e'ry town , lived lovingly , But now they had rather to scold and to brawl , And does not seem willing , upon God to call ; For baseness and wickedness , is now their joy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Poor Tradesmen lived better far , then now they do , Where they have a Shilling now , then they had two , But now times are altered , since Money grew scant , They hardly can get enough , to pay their rend : For Landlords their Tenants , do sorely annoy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Hatred and malice then was not so rife , Nor Lawyers so Fed , for to end a great strife : For brotherly Love , did in most men remain , But now all such doings , is held in disdain , To undo one another , they make it their joy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Of Gods Commandments , Men stood in fear , And loved the King and their Country so dear , Men was not so treacherous in all their ways , There was no such Rebels , as is nowadays , For to practice all goodness , they made it their joy , For the times , etc - All wicked actions men seemed to hate , Which will be too tedious for me to relate : As Whoredom and Drunkenness , was not so rife , For most Men in those days , lived a civil life : But now such debaucherous tricks is their joy , But the times , etc Then Husband and Wife , they enjoyed their peace , And God gave a blessing unto their increase ; Then Children were dutiful , now they're not so , For they learn to swear when they newly can go : And the Parents that hear them , count it but a toy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . Men were not so fickle to turn with the wind , To laugh in your face , and kill you behind ; For truly the times they are altered so , It's a hard thing to know a men friend from his foe : For flattery and falsehood is many a men joy , But the times they were better , when I was a Boy . And so for conclusion , I now make and end , And hope that this Song , will no person offend , But say what you will the truth is the truth , There was better living when I was a Youth ; Then to love one another , let's make it our joy , For the times they were better , when I was a Boy . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . 