A New Mournful Ballad , CALLED The Duke of Allbemarle's Farewell , Who lately departed this Life , in the Island of Jamaica ; being sent there as Governor , by his present Majesty , in the Year of our Lord , 87. and died in the Year 88. To the Tune of , Grim King of the Ghost . This may be P rinted , R.P. Y E Lovers of Loyalty , come yield me a small relief ; Pray shed a sad Tear with me , and share in the Nations Grief . A Noble brave Peer of the Land , is to the Blessed Regeons fled , Subdued by sad Fates bold hand , Great Allbemarl now is dead . Ah! who could forbear to weep , that does the sad Tidings hear ; He's laid in a silent sleep , lamented with many a Tear : How terrible is the found ; it strikes to our Ears a sad dread , Like Thunder it cries all round , Great Allbemarl now is dead . He was to Jamaica sent , to serve Royal JAMES our King ; Submissively there he went , Obeyed him in every Thing : But from the Hight Indian shore , he lately to Heaven is fled ; And we shall never see him more , Great Allbemarl now is dead . He often exposed his Blood , for King and his Countries sake ; He Loyally always stood , and to the just side did take : And now he is fled and gone ; our Nation it misses his Aid , And cry as they make their moan , Great Allbemarl now is dead . His Valour he oft has tried , upon the Salt Raging Main , Success he had on his side , and did many Honours gain : But Death with his Mortal Dart , the Trick of a Traitor has played , And Cowardly pierced his Heart , Great Allbemarl now is dead . Come you that great Souls admire ; Let's mingle our present Cares , And to a dark Shade retire , there Weep away all our Tears : Our Sighs they shall witness our Grief : We'll Both in the Tears that we shed , And suffer no sort of Relief , Since great Allbemarl is dead . Printed for J. Bissel , at the B ible and Harp near the Hospital-Gate in West-Smithfield . A New Mournful Ballad , CALLED The Duke of Allbemarle's Farewell , Who lately departed this Life , in the Island of Jamaica ; being sent there as Governor , by his present Majesty , in the Year of our Lord , 87. and died in the Year 88. To the Tune of , Grim King of the Ghost . This may be P rinted , R.P. Y E Lovers of Loyalty , come yield me a small relief ; Pray shed a sad Tear with me , and share in the Nations Grief . A Noble brave Peer of the Land , is to the Blessed Regeons fled , Subdued by sad Fates bold hand , Great Allbemarl now is dead . Ah! who could forbear to weep , that does the sad Tidings hear ; He's laid in a silent sleep , lamented with many a Tear : How terrible is the found ; it strikes to our Ears a sad dread , Like Thunder it cries all round , Great Allbemarl now is dead . He was to Jamaica sent , to serve Royal JAMES our King ; Submissively there he went , Obeyed him in every Thing : But from the Hight Indian shore , he lately to Heaven is fled ; And we shall never see him more , Great Allbemarl now is dead . He often exposed his Blood , for King and his Countries sake ; He Loyally always stood , and to the just side did take : And now he is fled and gone ; our Nation it misses his Aid , And cry as they make their moan , Great Allbemarl now is dead . His Valour he oft has tried , upon the Salt Raging Main , Success he had on his side , and did many Honours gain : But Death with his Mortal Dart , the Trick of a Traitor has played , And Cowardly pierced his Heart , Great Allbemarl now is dead . Come you that great Souls admire ; Let's mingle our present Cares , And to a dark Shade retire , there Weep away all our Tears : Our Sighs they shall witness our Grief : We'll Both in the Tears that we shed , And suffer no sort of Relief , Since great Allbemarl is dead . Printed for J. Bissel , at the B ible and Harp near the Hospital-Gate in West-Smithfield . 