A NEW SONG : To and Excellent IRISH Tune , much in Request . H Oh , Brother Teague , dost hear the Degree , Lil -- li Burlero Bullen a -- la ; That we shall have a new Debittie , Lili -- li Burlero Bullen a -- la : Lero , lero , lero , lero , Lilli burlero bullen a -- la ; Lero , lero , lero , lero , Lilli burlero bullen a -- la . Ho , by my Shoul , it is a TO -- tO , lilli burlero etc And he will Cut all de English TO -- tO , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Though , by my Shoul , de English doe Prat , lilli , etc De Laws on dare side , and Chreist knows what , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc But if Dispense do come from de Pope , lilli , etc Weel hang Magna Carto & amp ; demselves in a Rope , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc And the good TO -- tO to made a Lord , lilli , etc And he with brave Lads is coming aboard . lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Who all in France have taken a Swear . lilli , etc That day will have no Protestant H -- r , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Oh! but why does he stay behind ? lilli , etc Ho , by my Shoul , it's a Protestant Wind , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Now TO -- l is come ashore , lilli , etc And we shall have Commissions gillore ; lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc And he that will not go to M -- ss , lilli , etc Shall turn out and look like and Ass , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Now , now the Heretics all go down , lilli , etc By Chreist and St Patrick the Nations our own , lilli burlero bullen a -- la ; Lero , lero , lero , lero , lilli burlero bullen a -- la , lero , lero , lero , lero , lilli burlero bullen a -- la . FINIS . Printed for A . B.A NEW SONG : To and Excellent IRISH Tune , much in Request . H Oh , Brother Teague , dost hear the Degree , Lil -- li Burlero Bullen a -- la ; That we shall have a new Debittie , Lili -- li Burlero Bullen a -- la : Lero , lero , lero , lero , Lilli burlero bullen a -- la ; Lero , lero , lero , lero , Lilli burlero bullen a -- la . Ho , by my Shoul , it is a TO -- tO , lilli burlero etc And he will Cut all de English TO -- tO , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Though , by my Shoul , de English doe Prat , lilli , etc De Laws on dare side , and Chreist knows what , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc But if Dispense do come from de Pope , lilli , etc Weel hang Magna Carto & amp ; demselves in a Rope , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc And the good TO -- tO to made a Lord , lilli , etc And he with brave Lads is coming aboard . lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Who all in France have taken a Swear . lilli , etc That day will have no Protestant H -- r , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Oh! but why does he stay behind ? lilli , etc Ho , by my Shoul , it's a Protestant Wind , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Now TO -- l is come ashore , lilli , etc And we shall have Commissions gillore ; lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc And he that will not go to M -- ss , lilli , etc Shall turn out and look like and Ass , lilli , etc lero , lero , etc lero , lero , etc Now , now the Heretics all go down , lilli , etc By Chreist and St Patrick the Nations our own , lilli burlero bullen a -- la ; Lero , lero , lero , lero , lilli burlero bullen a -- la , lero , lero , lero , lero , lilli burlero bullen a -- la . FINIS . Printed for A.B. 