The Naked TRUTH : OR , A Brief Collection of the poor Man's Cares in this Hard and Dull SEASON . The Rich you know has many Friends , the Poor has few or none , Yet don't Despair but cast your Care upon the Lord alone . To the Tune of The Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . TO He Summer's departed , and Winter is come , Which is a great trouble and sorrow to some , Who is not provided with something in store , For Charity she is turned quite out of Door ; All Trading is dead , and the Rich Men are hard , The Poor and the Needy there's few will regard , The Truth of these Sayings there's none can deny , For this is a Ditty without ever a Lie . Bad Husbands that always did spend what they earn And will not endeavour this Lesson to learn For saving in Summer , while Weather is warm , Some Comfort to help in a cold Winter Storm , His head , and his heart will be furnished with care , For Friendship he'll find is as cold as the Air , The Truth of these Sayings there's none can deny For this is a Ditty without ever a Lie . He that has much Money shall never want a Friend , For all will be ready his Cause to defend , But he that has neither god Money nor Clothes , Why he shall be then as well furnished with Foes ; In this very Channel the whole World does run , It's seen by all Persons as clear as the Sun : The Truth of these Sayings there's none can deny , For this is a Ditty without ever a Lie . Alas ! there is many a right honest Man , That Labors , and takes all the pains that he can , To thrive in this World , by industrious Care , And yet after all , may be never the near ; For Losses and Crosses do's often attend Some Persons , and though not addicted to spend , The Truth of these Sayings , etc All Trading is dead , both in City and Town , And therefore the Poor they are daily run down : But there is Three Callings attended with Crimes , And these I must tell you live best in bad Times , The Bailiff , the Broker , and Usurer too , All these do's endeavour the Poor to undo : I'm sure there's no one , etc The Covetous Miser we here may behold Is raking , and making a God of his Gold , And likewise the Bailiff do's practice all Evil , The Broker is almost as bad as the Devil ; For those Caterpillars will eat and destroy The Substance that honest poor Men should enjoy : The Truth of these Sayings , etc Some Persons have Hundreds and Thousands a year , While others with care canned tell which way to steer ; 'Twere well if the Rich would consider the Poor , Out of their vast heaps of this plentiful Store , For Trading is dead , and there's little to do , And have a long Winter likewise to rub through , The Truth which I tell you , there's none can deny , For this is a Ditty without ever a Lie . Pride , Envy , and Malice among us do's Reign , Of which the whole Kingdom has cause to complain Then let us endeavour our Lives to amend , That the Divine Power a Blessing may send ; For how can we think that all things should go well , While we by our Sins against Heaven Rebel ? These Lines I would have you all willingly buy , It is a New Ditty without ever a Lie . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare J. Back . The Naked TRUTH : OR , A Brief Collection of the poor Man's Cares in this Hard and Dull SEASON . The Rich you know has many Friends , the Poor has few or none , Yet don't Despair but cast your Care upon the Lord alone . To the Tune of The Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . TO He Summer's departed , and Winter is come , Which is a great trouble and sorrow to some , Who is not provided with something in store , For Charity she is turned quite out of Door ; All Trading is dead , and the Rich Men are hard , The Poor and the Needy there's few will regard , The Truth of these Sayings there's none can deny , For this is a Ditty without ever a Lie . Bad Husbands that always did spend what they earn And will not endeavour this Lesson to learn For saving in Summer , while Weather is warm , Some Comfort to help in a cold Winter Storm , His head , and his heart will be furnished with care , For Friendship he'll find is as cold as the Air , The Truth of these Sayings there's none can deny For this is a Ditty without ever a Lie . He that has much Money shall never want a Friend , For all will be ready his Cause to defend , But he that has neither god Money nor Clothes , Why he shall be then as well furnished with Foes ; In this very Channel the whole World does run , It's seen by all Persons as clear as the Sun : The Truth of these Sayings there's none can deny , For this is a Ditty without ever a Lie . Alas ! there is many a right honest Man , That Labors , and takes all the pains that he can , To thrive in this World , by industrious Care , And yet after all , may be never the near ; For Losses and Crosses do's often attend Some Persons , and though not addicted to spend , The Truth of these Sayings , etc All Trading is dead , both in City and Town , And therefore the Poor they are daily run down : But there is Three Callings attended with Crimes , And these I must tell you live best in bad Times , The Bailiff , the Broker , and Usurer too , All these do's endeavour the Poor to undo : I'm sure there's no one , etc The Covetous Miser we here may behold Is raking , and making a God of his Gold , And likewise the Bailiff do's practice all Evil , The Broker is almost as bad as the Devil ; For those Caterpillars will eat and destroy The Substance that honest poor Men should enjoy : The Truth of these Sayings , etc Some Persons have Hundreds and Thousands a year , While others with care canned tell which way to steer ; 'Twere well if the Rich would consider the Poor , Out of their vast heaps of this plentiful Store , For Trading is dead , and there's little to do , And have a long Winter likewise to rub through , The Truth which I tell you , there's none can deny , For this is a Ditty without ever a Lie . Pride , Envy , and Malice among us do's Reign , Of which the whole Kingdom has cause to complain Then let us endeavour our Lives to amend , That the Divine Power a Blessing may send ; For how can we think that all things should go well , While we by our Sins against Heaven Rebel ? These Lines I would have you all willingly buy , It is a New Ditty without ever a Lie . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare J. Back . 