A New Touch of the Times , OR , The Naton's Consent , For a Free Parliament . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still flowing . L Et truehearted Protestans with me rejoice , And set forth our Mirth in a laudable voice ; Since Popery out of this Nation we clear , And have none but honest true Protestants here ; And therefore the Prince calls a Free Parliament , In order to Crown this great land with Content ; And heal all the Breeches that long has been made , Then , then we may hope for a Flourishing Trade . The Papists has been a sad Stich in our side , But now we will down with their insolent Pride ; And then we shall see a most rare Golden Age , When we of all Jesuits have cleared the Stage : For they have such turbulent Spirits we know , That nothing pleased them but the lands overthrow They're catched in the Snare which for others they laid And now we may hope for a Flourishing Trade . We see that the Lords and Nobility , Likewise the Gentry of e'ry Degree ; In one joint consent they resolved to stand , To preserve the Church and the Laws of the Land ; Which some evil Persons did strive to run down , All places of Trust both in City and Town The Papishes served in , our Laws to Invade , And that was the absolute Ruin of Trade . Before this great Prince came our Rights to maintain Alas ! we had reason enough to Complain : The Roman were coming to that height of Pride , That who would not turn , at a Stake must have died Nay , Bridles and Grid-Irons , as some people say , They then had provided , our lives to betray ; But now they're confounded and left in the lurch , And Heaven preserved the true Protestant Church . Some Turbulent Spirits were never at rest , But still they endeavoured to take of the Test : How often together their Foddles was laid , To break all the Laws which wise Parliaments made And Papers was Printed the land to Convince ; But then at the last comes a Protestant Prince , Then straightways their Glory did blast and decay , And some they were forced to scour away . I likewise remembered a Person of late , Who boar a great sway then in matters of State , He hung up poor ignorant men in the West , And therefore I reckon among all the rest , He must give account here for e'ry offence Before he will ever have leave to go hence : And as for brave Monmouth , I say he is dead , But others is come now to look for his Head. How many poor men in the West lost their lives , And left their poor Fatherless Children and Wives ; No manner of pity , alas ! did they show , But did what they could to prove their overthrow : That sharp bloody Sense will not soon be forgotten , It was a mere Papist and Jesuit Plot ; And valiant brave Monmouth I say he is dead , But others is come now to look for his Head. As soon as brave Monmouth was put to the [ Rout ] The Bald-pated Friars they were so [ Devout ] That they sung their Masses , and old Antic Song , With Crossing and telling their Beads over ding dung But now they will sing in a contrayry Tone , When under old Tyburn they make their sad moan , To think of that Soldier whose Breeches was Read , And some comes to London to look for his Head. Let us but consider the Jesuit bred , You'll find they're far better to Hang then to Feed ; And therefore at present some must lie in Jail , We won't take St. Patrick to be their Bail ; And therefore they now must submit to hard Fate , For Triumphing over brave Monmouth of late , Who some say is Living , and others he's Dead , So some's come to London to look for his Head. FINIS . Printed for , T. F . A New Touch of the Times , OR , The Naton's Consent , For a Free Parliament . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still flowing . L Et truehearted Protestans with me rejoice , And set forth our Mirth in a laudable voice ; Since Popery out of this Nation we clear , And have none but honest true Protestants here ; And therefore the Prince calls a Free Parliament , In order to Crown this great land with Content ; And heal all the Breeches that long has been made , Then , then we may hope for a Flourishing Trade . The Papists has been a sad Stich in our side , But now we will down with their insolent Pride ; And then we shall see a most rare Golden Age , When we of all Jesuits have cleared the Stage : For they have such turbulent Spirits we know , That nothing pleased them but the lands overthrow They're catched in the Snare which for others they laid And now we may hope for a Flourishing Trade . We see that the Lords and Nobility , Likewise the Gentry of e'ry Degree ; In one joint consent they resolved to stand , To preserve the Church and the Laws of the Land ; Which some evil Persons did strive to run down , All places of Trust both in City and Town The Papishes served in , our Laws to Invade , And that was the absolute Ruin of Trade . Before this great Prince came our Rights to maintain Alas ! we had reason enough to Complain : The Roman were coming to that height of Pride , That who would not turn , at a Stake must have died Nay , Bridles and Grid-Irons , as some people say , They then had provided , our lives to betray ; But now they're confounded and left in the lurch , And Heaven preserved the true Protestant Church . Some Turbulent Spirits were never at rest , But still they endeavoured to take of the Test : How often together their Foddles was laid , To break all the Laws which wise Parliaments made And Papers was Printed the land to Convince ; But then at the last comes a Protestant Prince , Then straightways their Glory did blast and decay , And some they were forced to scour away . I likewise remembered a Person of late , Who boar a great sway then in matters of State , He hung up poor ignorant men in the West , And therefore I reckon among all the rest , He must give account here for e'ry offence Before he will ever have leave to go hence : And as for brave Monmouth , I say he is dead , But others is come now to look for his Head. How many poor men in the West lost their lives , And left their poor Fatherless Children and Wives ; No manner of pity , alas ! did they show , But did what they could to prove their overthrow : That sharp bloody Sense will not soon be forgotten , It was a mere Papist and Jesuit Plot ; And valiant brave Monmouth I say he is dead , But others is come now to look for his Head. As soon as brave Monmouth was put to the [ Rout ] The Bald-pated Friars they were so [ Devout ] That they sung their Masses , and old Antic Song , With Crossing and telling their Beads over ding dung But now they will sing in a contrayry Tone , When under old Tyburn they make their sad moan , To think of that Soldier whose Breeches was Read , And some comes to London to look for his Head. Let us but consider the Jesuit bred , You'll find they're far better to Hang then to Feed ; And therefore at present some must lie in Jail , We won't take St. Patrick to be their Bail ; And therefore they now must submit to hard Fate , For Triumphing over brave Monmouth of late , Who some say is Living , and others he's Dead , So some's come to London to look for his Head. FINIS . Printed for , T. F. 