A Third Touch of the Times , To the Tune of , Charon make haste , etc B Rave English Boys now rejoice and be merry , which Loves your Country , Religion , and Laws , Let not your bloodsucking Enemies fear you , since that brave Orange defends your Cause ; He is come over and will protect us , though he be Cursed by Devil and Pope ; Then you damned Papists forbear to vex us , if that you do , you shall die in a Rope . For now you Villains you're even Confounded , though you designed for to cut our Throats , Now by the Seas you are quite surrounded , while the stout Hollanders stops your Boats : Oh you will sadly now be hanged , for the base mischiefs done by you , And at the last you shall all be hanged , so we'll be rid of a Cursed Crew . When you were well you could not be contented , but you must down with our Ancient Laws ; Yet I believe you will shortly repent it , that you did ever engage in that Cause : Jefferys and Peters , Walker and Chester , Pulton , and other Rascals too ; Also the base Temporizing Addressor , Penal Laws will now meet with you . Nothing would serve you but Protestants ruin , Rackings , and Gallows , and Knives , and Fire , You had provided , but 'twas your undoing , now you shall have them your selves for hire : Yea , so unbridled was your Power , ( though they no evil had deserved ) You must go send the Bishops to Tower , but now your Rogueships shall worse be served . Closely we'll hunt you throughout all the Nations , into the den , and the Caves of the Earth ; Nor will we matter thr Popes Execrations , but we will put a full stop to your Mirth : For the brave Orange , to your Confusion , will our just Laws restore again : Which we will soon put in Execution , paying the Papists in their own Coyn. Orange's Stomach you see will not bear it , that our Rights and his shall be lost ; But like a generous Noble Spirit , comes to defend us , though much to his Cost : Then let good Protestants all endeavour , for to assist his Highness still , Praying that Heaven would him deliver , from all the Rascals that wish him ill . Come drink a Health then to bonny Will . Harry , Englands Defender at time of need ; And to his Excellent Princess Marry , with all the rest of the Protestant breed : Long may they Live , by Heaven befriended ; but whosoever is their Foe : May at the Gallows his Life be ended , and every other that would not so . Printed in the Year , 1688. A Third Touch of the Times , To the Tune of , Charon make haste , etc B Rave English Boys now rejoice and be merry , which Loves your Country , Religion , and Laws , Let not your bloodsucking Enemies fear you , since that brave Orange defends your Cause ; He is come over and will protect us , though he be Cursed by Devil and Pope ; Then you damned Papists forbear to vex us , if that you do , you shall die in a Rope . For now you Villains you're even Confounded , though you designed for to cut our Throats , Now by the Seas you are quite surrounded , while the stout Hollanders stops your Boats : Oh you will sadly now be hanged , for the base mischiefs done by you , And at the last you shall all be hanged , so we'll be rid of a Cursed Crew . When you were well you could not be contented , but you must down with our Ancient Laws ; Yet I believe you will shortly repent it , that you did ever engage in that Cause : Jefferys and Peters , Walker and Chester , Pulton , and other Rascals too ; Also the base Temporizing Addressor , Penal Laws will now meet with you . Nothing would serve you but Protestants ruin , Rackings , and Gallows , and Knives , and Fire , You had provided , but 'twas your undoing , now you shall have them your selves for hire : Yea , so unbridled was your Power , ( though they no evil had deserved ) You must go send the Bishops to Tower , but now your Rogueships shall worse be served . Closely we'll hunt you throughout all the Nations , into the den , and the Caves of the Earth ; Nor will we matter thr Popes Execrations , but we will put a full stop to your Mirth : For the brave Orange , to your Confusion , will our just Laws restore again : Which we will soon put in Execution , paying the Papists in their own Coyn. Orange's Stomach you see will not bear it , that our Rights and his shall be lost ; But like a generous Noble Spirit , comes to defend us , though much to his Cost : Then let good Protestants all endeavour , for to assist his Highness still , Praying that Heaven would him deliver , from all the Rascals that wish him ill . Come drink a Health then to bonny Will . Harry , Englands Defender at time of need ; And to his Excellent Princess Marry , with all the rest of the Protestant breed : Long may they Live , by Heaven befriended ; but whosoever is their Foe : May at the Gallows his Life be ended , and every other that would not so . Printed in the Year , 1688. 