The Chimney-Men's Grief ; OR , The poor Subject's Joyful Expectation of the Downfall of that Terrible Tax which so long has been their Yearly Vexation . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes , etc . Licensed according to Order . L Et all Loyal Subject's Rejoice now amain , and pray for King Williams long prosperous Reign ; Who does to his people all Favour extend , And will not be wanting our Rights to defend : The Nation he never designs to Oppress , The Taxes most grievous he strives to make less ; And that of the Chimneys he'l freely pull down , All over his Kingdom in City and Town . This Tax has continued for many long years , And caused the poor people whole showers of tears ; When truly not able their Coin to produce , Each often received a most horrid abuse , From cruel Collectors , quite void of all Grace Who like roaring Lyons , would come to each place , And if disappointed , then on them they Frown , But this Chimney-money we hope will go down . The Tax of these Chimneys when first it was made , It was on good Tradesmen and Gentry laid . Who had store of Treasure the same to discharge , But in a short time this did further enlarge ; For it being Farmed by a Rich Knavish pack , The poor of this Kingdom went sorely to wrack , In every Village , nay , City and Town , But we are in hope's now this Tax will go down . Poor Plowmen that labours for Sixpence a day , Was likewise abliged this Tax for to pay ; And though a poor Wife , and young Children small , And none but his Care to maintain them withal : It was but in vain to plead Poverty , when They met with those cruel and hardhearted men , Who would with much Malice upon the poor frown , But we are in hope's now this Tax will go down . There's many that scarce had a Groat in the world , But was on the wrack of Extremity hurled ; Like Plundering Soldiers , they enter the Door , And make a Distress on the Goods of the poor , While frighted poor Children distractedly cried , This nothing abated their insolent pride ; With rugged hursh Language upon them they frown Yet this heavy Tax now we hope will go down . Sometime a poor Labourer works all the week , Then hies to the Market a Dinner to seek , Whereas he may purchase a joint of good Meat , And this may no sooner be Roasted and eat , But straightways the Spit may be seized for the Tax , Oh this was enough the poor Tradesman to vex , To think that Dame Fortune should thus on him frown But we are in hope's no this Tax will go down . But thanks to the King , who is graciously pleased , That every Subject in time should be eased From what has been grievous to most in this Land , Then let us in Loyal Obedience here stand , To him that will study our flourishing peace ; Let Heavenly Blessings be found to increase To make his days happy with Royal Renown , Who freely desires that Tax to go down . His Generous Spirit is seasoned with Love , Which flows from the Heavenly powers above ; May Blessings attend him where ever he goes , And Guard him from all his implacable Foes ; So here to enjoy a true prosperous Reign , , Then , then we shall never have cause to complain : His Love is as Great as his Royal Renown , For this heavy Tax he will freely take down . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Chimney-Men's Grief ; OR , The poor Subject's Joyful Expectation of the Downfall of that Terrible Tax which so long has been their Yearly Vexation . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes , etc . Licensed according to Order . L Et all Loyal Subject's Rejoice now amain , and pray for King Williams long prosperous Reign ; Who does to his people all Favour extend , And will not be wanting our Rights to defend : The Nation he never designs to Oppress , The Taxes most grievous he strives to make less ; And that of the Chimneys he'l freely pull down , All over his Kingdom in City and Town . This Tax has continued for many long years , And caused the poor people whole showers of tears ; When truly not able their Coin to produce , Each often received a most horrid abuse , From cruel Collectors , quite void of all Grace Who like roaring Lyons , would come to each place , And if disappointed , then on them they Frown , But this Chimney-money we hope will go down . The Tax of these Chimneys when first it was made , It was on good Tradesmen and Gentry laid . Who had store of Treasure the same to discharge , But in a short time this did further enlarge ; For it being Farmed by a Rich Knavish pack , The poor of this Kingdom went sorely to wrack , In every Village , nay , City and Town , But we are in hope's now this Tax will go down . Poor Plowmen that labours for Sixpence a day , Was likewise abliged this Tax for to pay ; And though a poor Wife , and young Children small , And none but his Care to maintain them withal : It was but in vain to plead Poverty , when They met with those cruel and hardhearted men , Who would with much Malice upon the poor frown , But we are in hope's now this Tax will go down . There's many that scarce had a Groat in the world , But was on the wrack of Extremity hurled ; Like Plundering Soldiers , they enter the Door , And make a Distress on the Goods of the poor , While frighted poor Children distractedly cried , This nothing abated their insolent pride ; With rugged hursh Language upon them they frown Yet this heavy Tax now we hope will go down . Sometime a poor Labourer works all the week , Then hies to the Market a Dinner to seek , Whereas he may purchase a joint of good Meat , And this may no sooner be Roasted and eat , But straightways the Spit may be seized for the Tax , Oh this was enough the poor Tradesman to vex , To think that Dame Fortune should thus on him frown But we are in hope's no this Tax will go down . But thanks to the King , who is graciously pleased , That every Subject in time should be eased From what has been grievous to most in this Land , Then let us in Loyal Obedience here stand , To him that will study our flourishing peace ; Let Heavenly Blessings be found to increase To make his days happy with Royal Renown , Who freely desires that Tax to go down . His Generous Spirit is seasoned with Love , Which flows from the Heavenly powers above ; May Blessings attend him where ever he goes , And Guard him from all his implacable Foes ; So here to enjoy a true prosperous Reign , , Then , then we shall never have cause to complain : His Love is as Great as his Royal Renown , For this heavy Tax he will freely take down . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 