ENGLAND'S JOY , For the Taking off The Chimney-Money . OR , The NATIONS Hearty Thanks for their MAJESTIES Royal Clemency . Tune of , Heigh Boys up gh we . Licensed , and Entered according to Order . C Ome , England , make a joyful Day , our Gracious King and Queen Have took the Chimney-Tax away , has so vexatious been : Collectors now must all go down , who were such frightful Evils , That one would scare a Country-Town , as much as twenty Devils . The Good old Dams when ever they the Chimney Man espied ; Unto their Nooks they hast away , their Pots , and Pipkins hide : But now those Bugbears are plucked down , you hated thus to see ; You now may use what ever's your own , from straining you are free . There is not one Old Dame in Ten , and search the Nation through ; But when you talk of Chimney Men , shall spare a Curse or two : Let us unto our Gracious King , our grateful thanks repay , For doing such a generous thing , as take this Tax away . Now happy Times are coming on , let's pray that they may last ; For now the Chimney Tax is gone , our chiefest care is past : We'll in our Country Cottage sing , and push the Jug about ; We'll drink and Health unto our King , till all our Liquour's out , No Nation ever could be more blessed , or greater ease enjoy ; We of those Rights are repossest , which Popery did destroy : From cares and fears we are set free , our King such Bounty gives ; Each Man enjoys his Liberty , and like a Prince he lives . The Chimney-Money , which oppressed the people that are poor ; Such grievances are now redressed , and will be felt no more : How blessed and happy is our Land , in such a Gracious King , Whose Noble Heart and Giving Hand , does all these Blessings bring ? The Country Wives now need not dear to bring their Pewter forth ; Or let their shining shelves declare their Cleanliness and Worth : For Chimney Men no more will come , or take your Goods away ; You safely may enjoy your home , there's no such Tax to pay . Our loving Gracious King and Queen , may Heaven ever bless ; God give them both a Prosperous Reign , and Crown their Happiness ; May they those Enemies destroy , that against them do Conspire ; And may they here on Earth enjoy , all Blessings they desire . Printed for A. Milbourn , and sold by R. Hayhurst , in Little-Britain . ENGLAND'S JOY , For the Taking off The Chimney-Money . OR , The NATIONS Hearty Thanks for their MAJESTIES Royal Clemency . Tune of , Heigh Boys up gh we . Licensed , and Entered according to Order . C Ome , England , make a joyful Day , our Gracious King and Queen Have took the Chimney-Tax away , has so vexatious been : Collectors now must all go down , who were such frightful Evils , That one would scare a Country-Town , as much as twenty Devils . The Good old Dams when ever they the Chimney Man espied ; Unto their Nooks they hast away , their Pots , and Pipkins hide : But now those Bugbears are plucked down , you hated thus to see ; You now may use what ever's your own , from straining you are free . There is not one Old Dame in Ten , and search the Nation through ; But when you talk of Chimney Men , shall spare a Curse or two : Let us unto our Gracious King , our grateful thanks repay , For doing such a generous thing , as take this Tax away . Now happy Times are coming on , let's pray that they may last ; For now the Chimney Tax is gone , our chiefest care is past : We'll in our Country Cottage sing , and push the Jug about ; We'll drink and Health unto our King , till all our Liquour's out , No Nation ever could be more blessed , or greater ease enjoy ; We of those Rights are repossest , which Popery did destroy : From cares and fears we are set free , our King such Bounty gives ; Each Man enjoys his Liberty , and like a Prince he lives . The Chimney-Money , which oppressed the people that are poor ; Such grievances are now redressed , and will be felt no more : How blessed and happy is our Land , in such a Gracious King , Whose Noble Heart and Giving Hand , does all these Blessings bring ? The Country Wives now need not dear to bring their Pewter forth ; Or let their shining shelves declare their Cleanliness and Worth : For Chimney Men no more will come , or take your Goods away ; You safely may enjoy your home , there's no such Tax to pay . Our loving Gracious King and Queen , may Heaven ever bless ; God give them both a Prosperous Reign , and Crown their Happiness ; May they those Enemies destroy , that against them do Conspire ; And may they here on Earth enjoy , all Blessings they desire . Printed for A. Milbourn , and sold by R. Hayhurst , in Little-Britain . 