A New Ballad , CALLED The Husbandman's Delight : OR , A S ONG in the praise of STRAW . Tune of , Ladies of London , etc This may be printed , R. P [ ? ] e all you Farmers , and listen a while , [ ? ] sing you a Song to delight you ; [ ? ] ect it self , it will make you smile , [ ? ] buy my Song 'twill invite the [ u ] : [ ? ] you a verse in praise of Good straw , [ ? ] e that will set you on laughing Tratise you find out a flaw , [ ? ] e you my Ballads for nothing . Straw it bears Wheat that fair delicate Grain , and Cods of all sorts let me tell yea , Such ones as Bean Cods , and Peas Cods I mean , fit for a fair Lady's Belly ; For they're accounted excellent food , by women much loved by relation , Why should not straw then be counted as good , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw bears the Barley that yields us the Ale we drink , while we beg or can borrow , Throwed in at mouth , and Cast out at the Tale , till we have quite drowned our sorrow ; It lengthens our lives and lightens our days and it is our Healths preservation ; Why should not straw then have far greater praise , then any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw it is good for to father a Ox , or litter a horse in the Stable ; Some in their shoes were it instead of socks , who to buy better are not able , For many beasts it's excellent food , and for many other occasion , Why should not straw then be recond as good , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw is the Subject upon which we treat , it bears a most delicate berry , Plump it's , and pleasant , and full of Good meat , and Coloured as Read as a Cherry , Put into Cream it's Curious food , and much at great dinners in fashion ; Why should not straw then be rechoned as Good , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw it will serve our Tobacco to light , and Straw it will rub down our Horses , Straw it will serve us when we go to sh --- tO , most neatly to wipe clean our Arses , The praise of Good Straw cannot be expressed , it's that always sings our Bacon Why should not straw be as much in request , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw is a thing by no means we could want , It stands us in many a [ st ] eed Sir , A Pretty Wench we may tumble upon't , as well as upon a down bed Sir , Many a Cup of Good Ale has been brewed , with Straw too upon and occasion , Then for the future lets think straw as Good , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blew-Anchor near Pie-corner . A New Ballad , CALLED The Husbandman's Delight : OR , A S ONG in the praise of STRAW . Tune of , Ladies of London , etc This may be printed , R. P [ ? ] e all you Farmers , and listen a while , [ ? ] sing you a Song to delight you ; [ ? ] ect it self , it will make you smile , [ ? ] buy my Song 'twill invite the [ u ] : [ ? ] you a verse in praise of Good straw , [ ? ] e that will set you on laughing Tratise you find out a flaw , [ ? ] e you my Ballads for nothing . Straw it bears Wheat that fair delicate Grain , and Cods of all sorts let me tell yea , Such ones as Bean Cods , and Peas Cods I mean , fit for a fair Lady's Belly ; For they're accounted excellent food , by women much loved by relation , Why should not straw then be counted as good , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw bears the Barley that yields us the Ale we drink , while we beg or can borrow , Throwed in at mouth , and Cast out at the Tale , till we have quite drowned our sorrow ; It lengthens our lives and lightens our days and it is our Healths preservation ; Why should not straw then have far greater praise , then any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw it is good for to father a Ox , or litter a horse in the Stable ; Some in their shoes were it instead of socks , who to buy better are not able , For many beasts it's excellent food , and for many other occasion , Why should not straw then be recond as good , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw is the Subject upon which we treat , it bears a most delicate berry , Plump it's , and pleasant , and full of Good meat , and Coloured as Read as a Cherry , Put into Cream it's Curious food , and much at great dinners in fashion ; Why should not straw then be rechoned as Good , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw it will serve our Tobacco to light , and Straw it will rub down our Horses , Straw it will serve us when we go to sh --- tO , most neatly to wipe clean our Arses , The praise of Good Straw cannot be expressed , it's that always sings our Bacon Why should not straw be as much in request , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Straw is a thing by no means we could want , It stands us in many a [ st ] eed Sir , A Pretty Wench we may tumble upon't , as well as upon a down bed Sir , Many a Cup of Good Ale has been brewed , with Straw too upon and occasion , Then for the future lets think straw as Good , as any Heigh , ho in the Nation . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blew-Anchor near Pie-corner . 