A Fair Warning for PRIDE : By a Foal which is lately said to come into the World with a Top = knot on its Head of several Colours , at Chelcknom in Gloucestershire . Attested by several Persons of good Credit . Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . C Ome listen a while , and I here will unfold ; A wonder as strange now as ever was told By persons of Credit the truth is well known , And therefore young Women and Lasses alone , I pray cast aside your invincible Pride , Since Heaven has pleased your strange Dress to deride ; For now near a Village in Gloucestershire , A Mare brought a Foal with a Topknot , we hear . For now give me leave here the truth to express , Young Women was never so proud in their Dress As they have been here in this Nation of late , In Ribbons they flourish and vaunt at that rate , With Topknot and Tower , but Heaven will lower , And will all your Pride and Vainglory devour : Behold ! near a Village in Gloucestershire , A Mare brought , etc Oh Monstrous Women ! why will you offend Your Maker , who many sad Judgements may send Upon the whole Nation , for your since of Pride , Your Laces , nay , Towers and Topknots beside : So Gawdy you are , when dressed in your Hair , That good sober Christians you perfectly scare ; The wrath of high Heaven you have cause to fear , A Mare brought a Foal with a Topknot , we hear . I pray you is this not sufficient to show That God is offended to see how you go Like Antics , in Ribbons of green , blue and read , As if a whole Millenors Shop on your Head : Oh make no delay , but straight cast them away , For why , your strange Mode is degraded this day : Now in a small Village in Gloucestershire , A Mare brought a Foal with a Topknot , we hear . The Knot which this Creature brought into the world , Although it be Flesh , yet like Ribbons it Curled ; Of several Colours , full seven indeed , And when they are handled they presently bleed : And likewise again , from the Head to the Main , The likeness of Ribbon is perfectly plain ; Young Women you see how your Pride does appear , A Mare has a Foal with a Topknot , we hear . In hundreds and thousands together they trowl From all parts and places to see this strange Foal Where e'ry Spectator with wonder is filled , The like of this Creature they never beheld : Young Women for shame , then strive reclaim , Or else the whole world must conclude you're to blame Let Modesty in your Apparel appear , A Mare has a Foal , etc Most Gentry that this strange wonder hath seen , Resolves for the future themselves to demean ; Young Women and Lasses it did so surprise , That they part with Towers and Topknots likewise ; And smite on their Breast , likewise vow and protest , Hereafter in Topknots they'll never be dressed , Like them may all Women now Decent appear , A Mare has a Foal , etc ' This said that this Monstrous Foal and its Mare , Will both be brought up here to Bartholomew-Fair , For to be exposed to the view of the Town , Oh then your high Topknots I hope will come down , Which lately increased , when you see at least , A Badge of your Pride on the Head of a Beast , Let Modesty in your Apparel appear , A Mare has a Foal with a Topknot , you hear . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp near the HospitaGate in West-Smithfield . A Fair Warning for PRIDE : By a Foal which is lately said to come into the World with a Top = knot on its Head of several Colours , at Chelcknom in Gloucestershire . Attested by several Persons of good Credit . Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . C Ome listen a while , and I here will unfold ; A wonder as strange now as ever was told By persons of Credit the truth is well known , And therefore young Women and Lasses alone , I pray cast aside your invincible Pride , Since Heaven has pleased your strange Dress to deride ; For now near a Village in Gloucestershire , A Mare brought a Foal with a Topknot , we hear . For now give me leave here the truth to express , Young Women was never so proud in their Dress As they have been here in this Nation of late , In Ribbons they flourish and vaunt at that rate , With Topknot and Tower , but Heaven will lower , And will all your Pride and Vainglory devour : Behold ! near a Village in Gloucestershire , A Mare brought , etc Oh Monstrous Women ! why will you offend Your Maker , who many sad Judgements may send Upon the whole Nation , for your since of Pride , Your Laces , nay , Towers and Topknots beside : So Gawdy you are , when dressed in your Hair , That good sober Christians you perfectly scare ; The wrath of high Heaven you have cause to fear , A Mare brought a Foal with a Topknot , we hear . I pray you is this not sufficient to show That God is offended to see how you go Like Antics , in Ribbons of green , blue and read , As if a whole Millenors Shop on your Head : Oh make no delay , but straight cast them away , For why , your strange Mode is degraded this day : Now in a small Village in Gloucestershire , A Mare brought a Foal with a Topknot , we hear . The Knot which this Creature brought into the world , Although it be Flesh , yet like Ribbons it Curled ; Of several Colours , full seven indeed , And when they are handled they presently bleed : And likewise again , from the Head to the Main , The likeness of Ribbon is perfectly plain ; Young Women you see how your Pride does appear , A Mare has a Foal with a Topknot , we hear . In hundreds and thousands together they trowl From all parts and places to see this strange Foal Where e'ry Spectator with wonder is filled , The like of this Creature they never beheld : Young Women for shame , then strive reclaim , Or else the whole world must conclude you're to blame Let Modesty in your Apparel appear , A Mare has a Foal , etc Most Gentry that this strange wonder hath seen , Resolves for the future themselves to demean ; Young Women and Lasses it did so surprise , That they part with Towers and Topknots likewise ; And smite on their Breast , likewise vow and protest , Hereafter in Topknots they'll never be dressed , Like them may all Women now Decent appear , A Mare has a Foal , etc ' This said that this Monstrous Foal and its Mare , Will both be brought up here to Bartholomew-Fair , For to be exposed to the view of the Town , Oh then your high Topknots I hope will come down , Which lately increased , when you see at least , A Badge of your Pride on the Head of a Beast , Let Modesty in your Apparel appear , A Mare has a Foal with a Topknot , you hear . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp near the HospitaGate in West-Smithfield . 