PECUNIA's Departure : OR , A Hue and Cry after Madam Money , With a considerable Reward for those that can bring Her to our full Satisfaction . Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . W E have lost a Lady beloved of Rich and Poor , And great has been her power this potent Land all over ; But , alas ! she's fled away , therefore now this very day , Quite through the Nation , lamentation threatens our decay : If you would know what her name is called , It's Madam Money , whom many thousands have extalled : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by , If Madam Money , Madam Money , you of late did spy . She has conquered Kingdoms and many Sieges formed , And many Castles taken , with Cities never stormed , Having battered fenced Walls , more than roaring Cannonballs ; Old Lewis ever does endeavour , still by golden Calls , To conquer more then he could by strength , Yet she is gone we fear from the needy World at length : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , Madam Money , you of late did spy . She has been admired more than a charming Saint , Therefore since she's withdrawn you may hear a sad Complaint , From the Courtier to the Clown , as we travel up and down , Both weeping , whining , sighing , pining , many others frown , Crying , They never shall find her more , Whose sweet and pleasant Charms like and Idol they adore : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , Madam Money , you of late did spy . Let us but consider she was a loving Mate , And then we must acknowledge the loss of her is great , For I'ld have you understand , we might travel through the Land With her about us , none would flout us , all things at command Strait would be brought for her sake alone , But now she's gone , alas ! and for her we make our moan : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by , If Madam Money , etc She has clothed the naked in time of sad distress , And been a daily Friend to the Poor and Fatherless , And a very potent Aid to the great affairs of Trade , Without the Penny there's not any can be happy made ; Therefore to find out our loving Friend , A speedy hue and cry through the Nation now we send : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , etc Farmers they have wanted her loving company , Likewise the wealthy Grazier to yield a fresh supply ; But alas , alas , in vain they may bitterly complain , That she has left them , and bereft them , of their former gain ; Men are unwilling their Debts to pay , They cry , They have no Coin , therefore they must longer stay : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , etc We have searched the City with more then common care , The Misers Bags and Coffers , but could not find her there , Where herself she used to hide , then the Misers wept and cried , She is departed brokenhearted , we must still abide Till she returns for to make us glad , Without her Company there's to pleasure to be had : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , Madam Money , you of late did spy . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-street . PECUNIA's Departure : OR , A Hue and Cry after Madam Money , With a considerable Reward for those that can bring Her to our full Satisfaction . Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . W E have lost a Lady beloved of Rich and Poor , And great has been her power this potent Land all over ; But , alas ! she's fled away , therefore now this very day , Quite through the Nation , lamentation threatens our decay : If you would know what her name is called , It's Madam Money , whom many thousands have extalled : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by , If Madam Money , Madam Money , you of late did spy . She has conquered Kingdoms and many Sieges formed , And many Castles taken , with Cities never stormed , Having battered fenced Walls , more than roaring Cannonballs ; Old Lewis ever does endeavour , still by golden Calls , To conquer more then he could by strength , Yet she is gone we fear from the needy World at length : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , Madam Money , you of late did spy . She has been admired more than a charming Saint , Therefore since she's withdrawn you may hear a sad Complaint , From the Courtier to the Clown , as we travel up and down , Both weeping , whining , sighing , pining , many others frown , Crying , They never shall find her more , Whose sweet and pleasant Charms like and Idol they adore : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , Madam Money , you of late did spy . Let us but consider she was a loving Mate , And then we must acknowledge the loss of her is great , For I'ld have you understand , we might travel through the Land With her about us , none would flout us , all things at command Strait would be brought for her sake alone , But now she's gone , alas ! and for her we make our moan : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by , If Madam Money , etc She has clothed the naked in time of sad distress , And been a daily Friend to the Poor and Fatherless , And a very potent Aid to the great affairs of Trade , Without the Penny there's not any can be happy made ; Therefore to find out our loving Friend , A speedy hue and cry through the Nation now we send : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , etc Farmers they have wanted her loving company , Likewise the wealthy Grazier to yield a fresh supply ; But alas , alas , in vain they may bitterly complain , That she has left them , and bereft them , of their former gain ; Men are unwilling their Debts to pay , They cry , They have no Coin , therefore they must longer stay : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , etc We have searched the City with more then common care , The Misers Bags and Coffers , but could not find her there , Where herself she used to hide , then the Misers wept and cried , She is departed brokenhearted , we must still abide Till she returns for to make us glad , Without her Company there's to pleasure to be had : Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , tell me you Standers by If Madam Money , Madam Money , you of late did spy . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-street . 