THE French CRYER Newly arrived in ENGLAND . To the Tune of , Lullaby-Baby . Licensed according to Order . I F any in Town or Country can Tell any news of and honest Man , And when to be so he first began ; Then let they come to the Crier , the Crier , then let they come to the Crier , If any has a Maidenhead found , Close up in a Cleanly Napkin bound ; And dropped by chance upon the ground : Then let him come to the Crier , the C ryer , then let , etc If any Cuckold has god but one Horn , Which makes him look like a Unicorn , And wants another his Brow t'adorn ; Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc If any Old Woman has god the art , To blow a Lamp out and in with a Fart , And will for Money the secret impart , Then let her come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc If any that's in the humour to lend , A brace of Thousand Pounds to a Friend , To take security , does not intend , Then let they come to the C ryer , the crier , then let they come to the crier . A Man one Night at Bartholomew Fair , Was chused of his St -- s , a lusty pair , If any can tidings of them declare , Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc Another had all his Teeth stole out , As he was a gazing round about If brought to pawn , as they will no doubt , Pray send they unto the Crier , the crier , pray send , etc If any a Pisspot Prophet needs , In Little-Moor-Fields is surely speeds , But if his Distemper Maggots breeds , Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , Then let , etc If any young Lass be in a straight , And cannot long for a Husband wait , But fain would Nibble the Charming Bait , Then let her come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc If any a Cure for Corns do need , And yet is loath his Pocket should bleed , If at the Exchange he cannot speed , Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc If any Taylor be out of work , And up and down streets does idly lurk , If he'l make Old Neck a Suit at a jerk ; Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc Does any want greasy Pork or Beef , Or stand in need of a Whore or a Thief , If in the Fair he miss of relief , Then let him come to the Crier , the Crier , then let him come to the Crier . Printed for J. Millet , next door to the Flow - er-de-luce in Little-Brittain . THE French CRYER Newly arrived in ENGLAND . To the Tune of , Lullaby-Baby . Licensed according to Order . I F any in Town or Country can Tell any news of and honest Man , And when to be so he first began ; Then let they come to the Crier , the Crier , then let they come to the Crier , If any has a Maidenhead found , Close up in a Cleanly Napkin bound ; And dropped by chance upon the ground : Then let him come to the Crier , the C ryer , then let , etc If any Cuckold has god but one Horn , Which makes him look like a Unicorn , And wants another his Brow t'adorn ; Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc If any Old Woman has god the art , To blow a Lamp out and in with a Fart , And will for Money the secret impart , Then let her come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc If any that's in the humour to lend , A brace of Thousand Pounds to a Friend , To take security , does not intend , Then let they come to the C ryer , the crier , then let they come to the crier . A Man one Night at Bartholomew Fair , Was chused of his St -- s , a lusty pair , If any can tidings of them declare , Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc Another had all his Teeth stole out , As he was a gazing round about If brought to pawn , as they will no doubt , Pray send they unto the Crier , the crier , pray send , etc If any a Pisspot Prophet needs , In Little-Moor-Fields is surely speeds , But if his Distemper Maggots breeds , Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , Then let , etc If any young Lass be in a straight , And cannot long for a Husband wait , But fain would Nibble the Charming Bait , Then let her come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc If any a Cure for Corns do need , And yet is loath his Pocket should bleed , If at the Exchange he cannot speed , Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc If any Taylor be out of work , And up and down streets does idly lurk , If he'l make Old Neck a Suit at a jerk ; Then let him come to the Crier , the crier , then let , etc Does any want greasy Pork or Beef , Or stand in need of a Whore or a Thief , If in the Fair he miss of relief , Then let him come to the Crier , the Crier , then let him come to the Crier . Printed for J. Millet , next door to the Flow - er-de-luce in Little-Brittain . 