West-Country TOM Tormented , OR , Vexed to the Heart by the News-Mongers of the Town . He vowed he'd neither talk nor prate , or any blows would give , Concerning the Affairs of State , but would at quiet live . To the Tune of , Lilli borlero . I Am a Lad that's come to the Town , who from the West did travel of late ; And they do call me Country Clown , because I will not prattle and prate : I no sooner came to London , but by the hand a Friend did me take , And News did require , but 'twas my desire , I told him neither to meddle nor make . As I came by a Cobblers Stall , where he was set a sowing his Shoes , After me then he straightways did call , saying , my Friend , I prithee what news : This did straightways raise my anger , knitting my brows , my head I did shake ; Do not stand bawling , but mind your own Calling , for I will neither meddle nor make . I having herd Men talk of rich Wine , some of that drink methought I did lack , Then I resolved a Tavern to find , where I would buy two pennoth of Sack : Being in my Leather Jacket , Gallants unto poor Tommy did speak , Concerning the Army , but they could not charm me , I swore I would neither meddle nor make . Some said the Prince to L ondon would come , then we should be more happy than ever ; Others declare we all were undone , if to the City he did repair : Thus they talked like men distracted , but not a word to them did I spoke , But as I sat drinking , I paid it with thinking , but vowed I would neither meddle nor make . Some they did drink a Health to the Prince , with a fair Orange placed in a Glass , And without any seeming offence , flowing full brimmers freely did pass : Then they called to Leather Breeches , saying to me this Health I should take , I'de not be at leisure , they might do their pleasure , for I would neither meddle nor make . Then I went to the Royal Exchange , where they discoursed of matters of State , Z'bobs , thought I , it's wondrous strange , that they do talk at such a rude rate : Some were seemingly Disloyal , the which did cause my heart for to ache , But the I stood neuter , and was no disputer , vowing I'ld neither meddle nor make . Then a young Spark all in a vine Coat , in a great rage his Rapier he draw , Swearing he'd make me altar my Note , and tell him more than ever I knew : But as he was coming to me , I with my Club his Noddle did break , And said , honest Neighbour , take this for your labour for I will neither meddle nor make . Then to a Barbers Shop I did go , where being placed and set in the Chair , Straightways he did desire to know what kine of News abroad I did hear ? This did make me near Distracted , unto my heels I straightways did take , I run and I Raved , with half my Beard shaved , crying , I'de neither meddle nor make . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . West-Country TOM Tormented , OR , Vexed to the Heart by the News-Mongers of the Town . He vowed he'd neither talk nor prate , or any blows would give , Concerning the Affairs of State , but would at quiet live . To the Tune of , Lilli borlero . I Am a Lad that's come to the Town , who from the West did travel of late ; And they do call me Country Clown , because I will not prattle and prate : I no sooner came to London , but by the hand a Friend did me take , And News did require , but 'twas my desire , I told him neither to meddle nor make . As I came by a Cobblers Stall , where he was set a sowing his Shoes , After me then he straightways did call , saying , my Friend , I prithee what news : This did straightways raise my anger , knitting my brows , my head I did shake ; Do not stand bawling , but mind your own Calling , for I will neither meddle nor make . I having herd Men talk of rich Wine , some of that drink methought I did lack , Then I resolved a Tavern to find , where I would buy two pennoth of Sack : Being in my Leather Jacket , Gallants unto poor Tommy did speak , Concerning the Army , but they could not charm me , I swore I would neither meddle nor make . Some said the Prince to L ondon would come , then we should be more happy than ever ; Others declare we all were undone , if to the City he did repair : Thus they talked like men distracted , but not a word to them did I spoke , But as I sat drinking , I paid it with thinking , but vowed I would neither meddle nor make . Some they did drink a Health to the Prince , with a fair Orange placed in a Glass , And without any seeming offence , flowing full brimmers freely did pass : Then they called to Leather Breeches , saying to me this Health I should take , I'de not be at leisure , they might do their pleasure , for I would neither meddle nor make . Then I went to the Royal Exchange , where they discoursed of matters of State , Z'bobs , thought I , it's wondrous strange , that they do talk at such a rude rate : Some were seemingly Disloyal , the which did cause my heart for to ache , But the I stood neuter , and was no disputer , vowing I'ld neither meddle nor make . Then a young Spark all in a vine Coat , in a great rage his Rapier he draw , Swearing he'd make me altar my Note , and tell him more than ever I knew : But as he was coming to me , I with my Club his Noddle did break , And said , honest Neighbour , take this for your labour for I will neither meddle nor make . Then to a Barbers Shop I did go , where being placed and set in the Chair , Straightways he did desire to know what kine of News abroad I did hear ? This did make me near Distracted , unto my heels I straightways did take , I run and I Raved , with half my Beard shaved , crying , I'de neither meddle nor make . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . 