A New-Years GIFT FOR Covetous COLLIERS . To the Tune of The Orange . Licensed according to Order . TO He Parliament all , near Westminster Hall Have rated the Coals , for the great and the small , A Bonfire let's make , bonny boys for their sake , And thank them for this Noble Act that they make , For the Collier . Though Coals we had store , the wretched and Poor , The Widows , and Orphans , might starve within door , The Price was so high , that the Poor could not buy , And their Bushels so short , that the Nation cried Fie , On the Collier . Old Neck that is black , as the Colliers foul Sack , Will carry them all , ( ever belong ) Pick a Pack , Since the Price of their Coals , they did rise more and more , And for starving the Poor , as I told you before , Oh brave Collier . But now let us Sing , and let all the Bells' Ring , But all things in order , first , God save the King , And the Parliament Men , again , and again , And let all the whole Realm , to this Act say Amen . For the Collier . Their Covetousness , kind Heaven did not Bless , The Colliers-Caball , will no more have success , 'Twas Black , and it Base , as the Colliers foul-face , But this ( my Master's ) a pitiful Case , For the Collier . We here might enlarge , and tell of our Charge , Since their Conscience was long as their Lyter or Barge As thick , and as Teugh , very much of that Hue , And the Nation , and People abused by the Crew , Of the Colliers . In sharp Winter weather , these Rooks hung together , And like very Black-Birds were all of a Feather , Their prizes they raised , but it's now , thanks be praised , As the Parliament pleases , and that has amazed the Old Colliers . We have herd of Old Coal , a Jolly Old Soul , That would take off his Bottle , and drink off his Bowl , Sure he was no Kind , nor yet any good Friend , When he lived in the World to this damnable Fiend , The Black Collier . If there comes but one Frost , the Coals must more cost , For he cares not a TO --- if the poor were all lost , If they can get Sack , and if nothing they lack , They mind not what others do bear on their Back , Oh brave Collier . Thus they fill their Purse , and the Realm fares the worse , Both the good honest Granum , and old honest Nurse , When they want some Fire , to broil their Beef-Stake , How often they wish that the Devil may take , The Old Collier . Alas ! how we look , in the Chimney-nook , When we want meat , and Fire , and are quite forsook , As cold as the Clay , we appear all the day , And this is the damnable fault I must say . of the Collier . ' This Coals that we want , and it's Coals that are scant , And that is the truth , and the short , and long on tO , Then can this be Civil , when all this same Evil , We know does proceed from that covetous Devil : the Collier . My Master's I tell you , Im'e sure that the belly , Cannot be kept warm , if that Neck or young Nelly , No Seacoal have god , for to put in the Pot And this same falls heavy , because of the Sot , The old Collier , Then lads stout and tall , old Grannums and all , Let us thank our good friends near to Westminster-Hall , Our case it was sad , and so wondrous bade It soon would have made any Mortal man mad , But the Collier . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . A New-Years GIFT FOR Covetous COLLIERS . To the Tune of The Orange . Licensed according to Order . TO He Parliament all , near Westminster Hall Have rated the Coals , for the great and the small , A Bonfire let's make , bonny boys for their sake , And thank them for this Noble Act that they make , For the Collier . Though Coals we had store , the wretched and Poor , The Widows , and Orphans , might starve within door , The Price was so high , that the Poor could not buy , And their Bushels so short , that the Nation cried Fie , On the Collier . Old Neck that is black , as the Colliers foul Sack , Will carry them all , ( ever belong ) Pick a Pack , Since the Price of their Coals , they did rise more and more , And for starving the Poor , as I told you before , Oh brave Collier . But now let us Sing , and let all the Bells' Ring , But all things in order , first , God save the King , And the Parliament Men , again , and again , And let all the whole Realm , to this Act say Amen . For the Collier . Their Covetousness , kind Heaven did not Bless , The Colliers-Caball , will no more have success , 'Twas Black , and it Base , as the Colliers foul-face , But this ( my Master's ) a pitiful Case , For the Collier . We here might enlarge , and tell of our Charge , Since their Conscience was long as their Lyter or Barge As thick , and as Teugh , very much of that Hue , And the Nation , and People abused by the Crew , Of the Colliers . In sharp Winter weather , these Rooks hung together , And like very Black-Birds were all of a Feather , Their prizes they raised , but it's now , thanks be praised , As the Parliament pleases , and that has amazed the Old Colliers . We have herd of Old Coal , a Jolly Old Soul , That would take off his Bottle , and drink off his Bowl , Sure he was no Kind , nor yet any good Friend , When he lived in the World to this damnable Fiend , The Black Collier . If there comes but one Frost , the Coals must more cost , For he cares not a TO --- if the poor were all lost , If they can get Sack , and if nothing they lack , They mind not what others do bear on their Back , Oh brave Collier . Thus they fill their Purse , and the Realm fares the worse , Both the good honest Granum , and old honest Nurse , When they want some Fire , to broil their Beef-Stake , How often they wish that the Devil may take , The Old Collier . Alas ! how we look , in the Chimney-nook , When we want meat , and Fire , and are quite forsook , As cold as the Clay , we appear all the day , And this is the damnable fault I must say . of the Collier . ' This Coals that we want , and it's Coals that are scant , And that is the truth , and the short , and long on tO , Then can this be Civil , when all this same Evil , We know does proceed from that covetous Devil : the Collier . My Master's I tell you , Im'e sure that the belly , Cannot be kept warm , if that Neck or young Nelly , No Seacoal have god , for to put in the Pot And this same falls heavy , because of the Sot , The old Collier , Then lads stout and tall , old Grannums and all , Let us thank our good friends near to Westminster-Hall , Our case it was sad , and so wondrous bade It soon would have made any Mortal man mad , But the Collier . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . 