The City Rambler ; OR , The Merry Cries of London Town . To the Tune of The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . I Pray now listen to this Song , It is of Cries which you may hear , As you the Streets may pass along , In London City every Year ; As you do walk them up and down , These are the Cries of London Town . Fine Oranges and Lemons fair , they are as good as ever was cut ; Yet I'll not pick and cull my Ware for ever a Drab , or dirty Slut : Thus Billings-gate begins to frown These are the Cries of London Town . H ere's Artichokes and Cucumbers Cauliflowers fresh and gay ; I'll use you well , my worthy Sirs , my Customers , now come away ; I have choice Ware I'll lay a Crown ; These are the Cries of London Town . Have you any old Brass to mend ? a Kettle ? Skellet ? Frying pan ? here ; I'll use each Woman as a Friend , and stop her Hold , you need not fear : I please the fair , the black , and brown , These are the Cries , etc Will you have any Milk to day ? sweet Bridget , Nancy , Kate , or Prue ; Or likewise curious Curds and Whey , I have as choice as ever you knew ; To fell them I walk up and down , These are the Cries , etc Here's honest Codpiece Points and Pins , Thread-Laces three , for one penny And Maids bring out your Coney-skins all Colours are a Case to me ; The black , the grizzle , gray , and brown These are the Cries , etc Work for the Cooper now I cry , and daily do for Labour seek , I call as I am passing by , young Lasses if your Vessels leak , I'll freely Hoop you up and down , These are the Cries ; etc Old Suits and Cloaks , or Taffety ? Silk-stockings , Velvet , Stuffs in grain ? Or have you any Brass Money to feague ? and cheat the World again For this I travel up and down These are the Cries , etc I am a Chimney-sweeper Black , behold my Shackle , Broom and Poles , Which here are hanging at my Back to cleanse young Lasses smutty holes I'll cleanse your Funnels up and down , These are the Cries , etc Here's knives to grind , here's knives to grind and Tailors too , bring out your shear [ s ] For if they are not sharp you'll find , in Cabbage you'll be in Arrears ; That will your Calling quite run down These are the Cries , etc Come buy a Steel , or a Tinder-Box , or else a curious large Horn Comb , Young Women with your powdered Locks , for your kind Husbands now at home To trim and comb his Cuckold's crown These are the Cries of London Town . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The City Rambler ; OR , The Merry Cries of London Town . To the Tune of The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . I Pray now listen to this Song , It is of Cries which you may hear , As you the Streets may pass along , In London City every Year ; As you do walk them up and down , These are the Cries of London Town . Fine Oranges and Lemons fair , they are as good as ever was cut ; Yet I'll not pick and cull my Ware for ever a Drab , or dirty Slut : Thus Billings-gate begins to frown These are the Cries of London Town . H ere's Artichokes and Cucumbers Cauliflowers fresh and gay ; I'll use you well , my worthy Sirs , my Customers , now come away ; I have choice Ware I'll lay a Crown ; These are the Cries of London Town . Have you any old Brass to mend ? a Kettle ? Skellet ? Frying pan ? here ; I'll use each Woman as a Friend , and stop her Hold , you need not fear : I please the fair , the black , and brown , These are the Cries , etc Will you have any Milk to day ? sweet Bridget , Nancy , Kate , or Prue ; Or likewise curious Curds and Whey , I have as choice as ever you knew ; To fell them I walk up and down , These are the Cries , etc Here's honest Codpiece Points and Pins , Thread-Laces three , for one penny And Maids bring out your Coney-skins all Colours are a Case to me ; The black , the grizzle , gray , and brown These are the Cries , etc Work for the Cooper now I cry , and daily do for Labour seek , I call as I am passing by , young Lasses if your Vessels leak , I'll freely Hoop you up and down , These are the Cries ; etc Old Suits and Cloaks , or Taffety ? Silk-stockings , Velvet , Stuffs in grain ? Or have you any Brass Money to feague ? and cheat the World again For this I travel up and down These are the Cries , etc I am a Chimney-sweeper Black , behold my Shackle , Broom and Poles , Which here are hanging at my Back to cleanse young Lasses smutty holes I'll cleanse your Funnels up and down , These are the Cries , etc Here's knives to grind , here's knives to grind and Tailors too , bring out your shear [ s ] For if they are not sharp you'll find , in Cabbage you'll be in Arrears ; That will your Calling quite run down These are the Cries , etc Come buy a Steel , or a Tinder-Box , or else a curious large Horn Comb , Young Women with your powdered Locks , for your kind Husbands now at home To trim and comb his Cuckold's crown These are the Cries of London Town . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 