Old England's New Save-all : OR , The Boasting F [ a ] rmer's Vainglory . Together with the Merchant , Weaver , and Taylor is Lamentation : Concluding with Honest Tom the Cobbler is Resolution . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . O Ne night in my bed As then I was lying , With grief I was crying , Remembering bred was desperate dear : The Farmers they huff , And the Bakers cry puff , their gains are but small ; But I'm sure the poor tradesman , I'm sure the poor tradesman must buy a Save-all . Five Farmers we hear , Strong liquour was quaffing , And merrily laughing , The Corn being dear , they well might carouse : Nay , they often replied , Boys , the world's on our side , for liquour let's call ; The labouring tradesman , The labouring tradesman may buy a Save-all . A Tinker that night Sat mending a Kittle , A bold man of mettle , Quoth he , by this light , you are villains in grain : But the weather grows fair , And warm is the air , I hope Corn will fallen , And then jolly Farmers , And then jolly Farmers may buy Save-all . A Merchant stood by , Who grieved and lamented , And seemed discontented , I'll tell you for why , his losses was great : For his Ship homeward bound The French did surround , his comforts was small ; He scarce had a penny , He scarce had a penny to buy a Save-all . A pox take the French , Quoth Bottom the Weaver , I'll do my endeavour To give them a drench of fire and smoke : They have made Silk so dear among tradesmen here , to nothing we fallen ; Ten thousand poor Weavers , Then thousand poor Weavers may buy a Save-all . My case is the same , Says Trueman the Taylor , Would I were a Sailor , For then sick or lame the King would take care To maintain me , I know , Now cabbaged grows low , to nothing I fallen I have not a tester , I have not a tester to buy a Save-all . A sixpenny Loaf , ( I will not dissemble ) I have made it to tremble , When brisk I took off a pint of good Ale : I may now take my Sheers And clip off my ears , since to starving I fallen ; Poor Trueman the Taylor Must live with a Jailor , or buy a Save-all . Come cease thy complaint , Quoth Tom the Translator , A true small-beer hater , My cheeks I must paint with liquour of life : Let us drink , boys , and fight , That our wrongs we may right ; the French let us maul , Or else the whole Nation , Or else the whole Nation may buy a Save-all . I'll throw by my Last , On board I will enter , My life I will venture , To blow them a blast , which they little dread : While our Cannons do raor , We will drive them to shore with powder and ball ; Or else poor old England , Or else poor old England may buy a Save-all . Never fit like a moam , Here weeping and whining , Nay , sighing and pining , We leave house and home to meet the proud French : Come , by thousands let's go , We must soon lay them low , and make their pride fallen ; Or else poor old England , Or else poor old England may buy a Save-all . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , near West-Smithfield . Old England's New Save-all : OR , The Boasting F [ a ] rmer's Vainglory . Together with the Merchant , Weaver , and Taylor is Lamentation : Concluding with Honest Tom the Cobbler is Resolution . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . O Ne night in my bed As then I was lying , With grief I was crying , Remembering bred was desperate dear : The Farmers they huff , And the Bakers cry puff , their gains are but small ; But I'm sure the poor tradesman , I'm sure the poor tradesman must buy a Save-all . Five Farmers we hear , Strong liquour was quaffing , And merrily laughing , The Corn being dear , they well might carouse : Nay , they often replied , Boys , the world's on our side , for liquour let's call ; The labouring tradesman , The labouring tradesman may buy a Save-all . A Tinker that night Sat mending a Kittle , A bold man of mettle , Quoth he , by this light , you are villains in grain : But the weather grows fair , And warm is the air , I hope Corn will fallen , And then jolly Farmers , And then jolly Farmers may buy Save-all . A Merchant stood by , Who grieved and lamented , And seemed discontented , I'll tell you for why , his losses was great : For his Ship homeward bound The French did surround , his comforts was small ; He scarce had a penny , He scarce had a penny to buy a Save-all . A pox take the French , Quoth Bottom the Weaver , I'll do my endeavour To give them a drench of fire and smoke : They have made Silk so dear among tradesmen here , to nothing we fallen ; Ten thousand poor Weavers , Then thousand poor Weavers may buy a Save-all . My case is the same , Says Trueman the Taylor , Would I were a Sailor , For then sick or lame the King would take care To maintain me , I know , Now cabbaged grows low , to nothing I fallen I have not a tester , I have not a tester to buy a Save-all . A sixpenny Loaf , ( I will not dissemble ) I have made it to tremble , When brisk I took off a pint of good Ale : I may now take my Sheers And clip off my ears , since to starving I fallen ; Poor Trueman the Taylor Must live with a Jailor , or buy a Save-all . Come cease thy complaint , Quoth Tom the Translator , A true small-beer hater , My cheeks I must paint with liquour of life : Let us drink , boys , and fight , That our wrongs we may right ; the French let us maul , Or else the whole Nation , Or else the whole Nation may buy a Save-all . I'll throw by my Last , On board I will enter , My life I will venture , To blow them a blast , which they little dread : While our Cannons do raor , We will drive them to shore with powder and ball ; Or else poor old England , Or else poor old England may buy a Save-all . Never fit like a moam , Here weeping and whining , Nay , sighing and pining , We leave house and home to meet the proud French : Come , by thousands let's go , We must soon lay them low , and make their pride fallen ; Or else poor old England , Or else poor old England may buy a Save-all . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , near West-Smithfield . 