The Bountiful Brewers : Who pays the King's Taxes out of the Poor Men's Purses , rather than diminish their own golden Stores . To the Tune of And Orange . Licensed according to Order . I N this present Reign , the War to maintain , A Tax being laid upon Liquour of Grain , It's Barley made Malt , but here I must halt , To give you a touch of a damnable Fault of the Brewer . The Parliament they , was pleased to lay The Tax upon those that are able to pay ; May Heaven therefore , replenish their Store , Yet this very Tax is now laid on the poor by the Brewer . On Dealers retail of strong Beer and Ale , This Tax is not laid but of Traders whole-sail ; This was the intent of the good Parliament , But some says , they had not the perfect consent of the Brewers . The Case being thus , they make a sad Fuss Yet they will pay nothing out of their own Purse But as for the Act , they vow to exact Upon the poor Tradesmen , and thus they are racked by the Brewer . Their Liquours made small , their Measures they maul , Nay , was I but now for to reckon up all The Ways that they take , this Money to make , You'd swear that the Devil had now lent a Rake to the Brewers . Their Conscience they stain , for Profit and Gain , And yet if and honest Men chance to complain They huffingly say , such Taxes they pay , That it wilt be smaller before the next day ; wretched Brewers . Their Coffers to fill , I know that they will Give us a true touch of their dexterous skill ; Much Water they'll put to make us rat Gut ; Likewise it is said that their Gallons are cut , wretched Brewers . And were you to sink for one Cup of Drink They will not part with it , but cry , Do you think That Tax we can pay , by giving away ? They shant have as much as the smell of a Dray under Sixpence . They are glad of this bit , for why they will get A Triple Excise by their Diligent Wit ; For the River and Wells , where Water excels Shall pay the Kings Taxes , and get Golden Spells for the Brewer . The Truth to relate , their Profit is great For most of them having a worthy Estate , Gold , Silver beside , flows in like a Tide And they have the River of Thames on their [ side ] wealthy Brewers . We formerly here complained of their Beer , But then they would tell us that Malt it was dear ; Yet now Princes fallen , the Liquour is small , And therefore they should get the Devil and all wretched Brewers . Strange ways they devise to raise this Excise , The smallest of Liquour now highly they prize ; Such Profit they bring from every Spring , That Faith , I believe , they get more than the King wretched Brewers . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . and J. Back . The Bountiful Brewers : Who pays the King's Taxes out of the Poor Men's Purses , rather than diminish their own golden Stores . To the Tune of And Orange . Licensed according to Order . I N this present Reign , the War to maintain , A Tax being laid upon Liquour of Grain , It's Barley made Malt , but here I must halt , To give you a touch of a damnable Fault of the Brewer . The Parliament they , was pleased to lay The Tax upon those that are able to pay ; May Heaven therefore , replenish their Store , Yet this very Tax is now laid on the poor by the Brewer . On Dealers retail of strong Beer and Ale , This Tax is not laid but of Traders whole-sail ; This was the intent of the good Parliament , But some says , they had not the perfect consent of the Brewers . The Case being thus , they make a sad Fuss Yet they will pay nothing out of their own Purse But as for the Act , they vow to exact Upon the poor Tradesmen , and thus they are racked by the Brewer . Their Liquours made small , their Measures they maul , Nay , was I but now for to reckon up all The Ways that they take , this Money to make , You'd swear that the Devil had now lent a Rake to the Brewers . Their Conscience they stain , for Profit and Gain , And yet if and honest Men chance to complain They huffingly say , such Taxes they pay , That it wilt be smaller before the next day ; wretched Brewers . Their Coffers to fill , I know that they will Give us a true touch of their dexterous skill ; Much Water they'll put to make us rat Gut ; Likewise it is said that their Gallons are cut , wretched Brewers . And were you to sink for one Cup of Drink They will not part with it , but cry , Do you think That Tax we can pay , by giving away ? They shant have as much as the smell of a Dray under Sixpence . They are glad of this bit , for why they will get A Triple Excise by their Diligent Wit ; For the River and Wells , where Water excels Shall pay the Kings Taxes , and get Golden Spells for the Brewer . The Truth to relate , their Profit is great For most of them having a worthy Estate , Gold , Silver beside , flows in like a Tide And they have the River of Thames on their [ side ] wealthy Brewers . We formerly here complained of their Beer , But then they would tell us that Malt it was dear ; Yet now Princes fallen , the Liquour is small , And therefore they should get the Devil and all wretched Brewers . Strange ways they devise to raise this Excise , The smallest of Liquour now highly they prize ; Such Profit they bring from every Spring , That Faith , I believe , they get more than the King wretched Brewers . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . and J. Back . 