A Description of Bartholomew - Fair . Whither this be wit or nonsense , who need care , It's like the subject , which is Bartholomew - Fair ; A mess of altogether , well enough , To get good Money , which will make us huff , And swagger bravely , drink a Glass , or so , With some kind she-acquaintance , which you know , Are pretty tempting things , so much for that , I now must come to tell you plain and flat , That in this Song the whole Fair you may view , You may believe me when I tell you true . To the Tune of , Digby's Farewell . Y Ou Bartholomew Tapsters I first do advice , To take my good Counsel if that you be wise , Your hearts now are merry , but your heads full of care , How to get store of Money this Bartholomew - Fair : Use a Conscience in measure , and give all men their endue , And when that it's late thrust away the rude Crew : Be merry and wise , and give each man content , And then of your actions you'll never repent . You must entertain both the good and the bad , Sometime the bold Hector that rides on the Pad , Jilts , Biters , Prigs , Lifters , to him do resort , All which well observed will afford you good sport ; The Foylers , Kidnappers , and Bulkers also , For to lay their design to your Houses will go , Your eyes must be quick both behind and before , Look well to their tricks or they'll pinch you full soar . The Country Cully comes up to the Town , With good store of money , to stair up and down , He admires Jack-Pudding , who studies to please him , While a Pickpocket whore of his money does ease him : He nothing mistrusts , but laughs out aloud , Still praising the Fool with the rest of the crowd ; A Copper-laced Petticoat , and Face full of Paint , Makes the young Country fool think the devil a Saint . If his Pocket miss picking while he's in the Fair , It is sure to be done when more private they are ; For he picks up a Girl with her fine curled locks , Who for Two and Sixpence will fell him the Pox. And while he's admiring her languishing Eyes , Overcome with delight , then she does him surprise , She tickles his Coin , while she plays with his hair , Then away marches Betty again to the Fair . But when she is gone he begins to bethink , What should be the reason his money won't chinck , He feels in his Pocket and finds all is gone , Which makes him lament his sad fortune alone : He curses his fate , and begins for the swear , How damnable dear he has paid for his Ware ; Yet dares not discover his folly , lest he A mock to his friends and his Neighbours should be . The finikin Shopkeeper once in their Year , To eat a Pigs-head takes his Wife to the Fair ; There is no denial , he with her must go , And takes in his Pocket and Angel or two ; Then merry they make while the Music does play , But if I beened mistaken full dear they must pay ; A Crown for the head of a big three Weeks old , All this must be had or my Mistress will scold . The second part , to the same Tune . TO Heir Children must with them , if that they have any , It's forty to one but they have a great many : The climate is fruitful , the soil fat and good , All things to be had for to nourish the blood : There's no fear of increase , which if they can go , They must to the Fair for to see a fine Show : Being dressed very fine , like young Lords and Ladies , The Boys must have bows , & amp ; the girls must have babies The spritely young Prentice must not be forgotten , One day in the Fortnight must fallen to his lot , The Servant-Maid with him so trim he does take , And briskly does treat her with a Pot and a Cake ; If his Purse it be strong , he will venture to see The Monkeys to dance , and the Goose with legs three ; All this having seen , he home does repair , Being enough for to talk of until the next Fair . All those that have Money and want any Ware , Let them walk to Smithfield this Bartholomew - Fair : All sorts of movables there may be had , You must venture your lot amongst the good and the bad ; Gloves , Ribbons , Kinves , Scizzars , with Jack in a box , Fine Ladies with patches , and powdered with pox : With a Cock and a Gelding , with Whistle and Rattle , All which serve to please the young Kids that can prattle . With drums & amp ; with trumpets you'll hear a great noise , And arch Merry Andrew will rend out his voice : Though his looks are but simple , & amp ; his actions the same , Yet he knows well enough how to play a safe Game : By playing the fool he does get store of Coin , Which buys him good cheer , good beer , and good wine And when the night comes , he puts off his disguise , All day he's a fool , but at night he is wise . All you that are single and free from all strife , Yet seem to have courage to match with a Wife ; You here may be fitted of every degree , With all sorts and sizes you coupled may be ; If in the long run you do fear she'l prove sour , You here may make choice of a Wife for and hour ; Search all the World over , no place can compare , For such sorts of pleasure , with Bartholomew-Fair . Then away bonny Lads , and fine Lasses make haste , And some of those Bartholomew rich rarities taste ; No question but all of you will have content , And that of your money you will not repent : Make use of your time , while time you have here , Who knows who shall be at the Fair the next Year ? Merry Andrew does call you , the music invites , To partake of their pleasure , and taste their delights . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Description of Bartholomew - Fair . Whither this be wit or nonsense , who need care , It's like the subject , which is Bartholomew - Fair ; A mess of altogether , well enough , To get good Money , which will make us huff , And swagger bravely , drink a Glass , or so , With some kind she-acquaintance , which you know , Are pretty tempting things , so much for that , I now must come to tell you plain and flat , That in this Song the whole Fair you may view , You may believe me when I tell you true . To the Tune of , Digby's Farewell . Y Ou Bartholomew Tapsters I first do advice , To take my good Counsel if that you be wise , Your hearts now are merry , but your heads full of care , How to get store of Money this Bartholomew - Fair : Use a Conscience in measure , and give all men their endue , And when that it's late thrust away the rude Crew : Be merry and wise , and give each man content , And then of your actions you'll never repent . You must entertain both the good and the bad , Sometime the bold Hector that rides on the Pad , Jilts , Biters , Prigs , Lifters , to him do resort , All which well observed will afford you good sport ; The Foylers , Kidnappers , and Bulkers also , For to lay their design to your Houses will go , Your eyes must be quick both behind and before , Look well to their tricks or they'll pinch you full soar . The Country Cully comes up to the Town , With good store of money , to stair up and down , He admires Jack-Pudding , who studies to please him , While a Pickpocket whore of his money does ease him : He nothing mistrusts , but laughs out aloud , Still praising the Fool with the rest of the crowd ; A Copper-laced Petticoat , and Face full of Paint , Makes the young Country fool think the devil a Saint . If his Pocket miss picking while he's in the Fair , It is sure to be done when more private they are ; For he picks up a Girl with her fine curled locks , Who for Two and Sixpence will fell him the Pox. And while he's admiring her languishing Eyes , Overcome with delight , then she does him surprise , She tickles his Coin , while she plays with his hair , Then away marches Betty again to the Fair . But when she is gone he begins to bethink , What should be the reason his money won't chinck , He feels in his Pocket and finds all is gone , Which makes him lament his sad fortune alone : He curses his fate , and begins for the swear , How damnable dear he has paid for his Ware ; Yet dares not discover his folly , lest he A mock to his friends and his Neighbours should be . The finikin Shopkeeper once in their Year , To eat a Pigs-head takes his Wife to the Fair ; There is no denial , he with her must go , And takes in his Pocket and Angel or two ; Then merry they make while the Music does play , But if I beened mistaken full dear they must pay ; A Crown for the head of a big three Weeks old , All this must be had or my Mistress will scold . The second part , to the same Tune . TO Heir Children must with them , if that they have any , It's forty to one but they have a great many : The climate is fruitful , the soil fat and good , All things to be had for to nourish the blood : There's no fear of increase , which if they can go , They must to the Fair for to see a fine Show : Being dressed very fine , like young Lords and Ladies , The Boys must have bows , & amp ; the girls must have babies The spritely young Prentice must not be forgotten , One day in the Fortnight must fallen to his lot , The Servant-Maid with him so trim he does take , And briskly does treat her with a Pot and a Cake ; If his Purse it be strong , he will venture to see The Monkeys to dance , and the Goose with legs three ; All this having seen , he home does repair , Being enough for to talk of until the next Fair . All those that have Money and want any Ware , Let them walk to Smithfield this Bartholomew - Fair : All sorts of movables there may be had , You must venture your lot amongst the good and the bad ; Gloves , Ribbons , Kinves , Scizzars , with Jack in a box , Fine Ladies with patches , and powdered with pox : With a Cock and a Gelding , with Whistle and Rattle , All which serve to please the young Kids that can prattle . With drums & amp ; with trumpets you'll hear a great noise , And arch Merry Andrew will rend out his voice : Though his looks are but simple , & amp ; his actions the same , Yet he knows well enough how to play a safe Game : By playing the fool he does get store of Coin , Which buys him good cheer , good beer , and good wine And when the night comes , he puts off his disguise , All day he's a fool , but at night he is wise . All you that are single and free from all strife , Yet seem to have courage to match with a Wife ; You here may be fitted of every degree , With all sorts and sizes you coupled may be ; If in the long run you do fear she'l prove sour , You here may make choice of a Wife for and hour ; Search all the World over , no place can compare , For such sorts of pleasure , with Bartholomew-Fair . Then away bonny Lads , and fine Lasses make haste , And some of those Bartholomew rich rarities taste ; No question but all of you will have content , And that of your money you will not repent : Make use of your time , while time you have here , Who knows who shall be at the Fair the next Year ? Merry Andrew does call you , the music invites , To partake of their pleasure , and taste their delights . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 