The Brewers Answer ; Or , Their Vindication , against those Aspersions that hath been put upon them concerning the Double Excise . To the Tune of , The Orange . I F in this present Reign , the War to maintain , A Tax it is laid upon Liquour of Grain , Why should People halt , to find out a fault , Which none can discern , if it lie in the Malt , or the Brewers . Our Credit to stain , much pains hath been taken , But justly to balance our losses with gain , They do not intend , but this is their end , Which way that the Rabble may us most offend , slighted Brewers . What was the intent , of the good Parliament , We will not dispute , if you'll give your consent But a little to stay , and hear what we say , Before that you thus your aspersions do lay on the Brewers . Malt cheap is , we hear , but Coals they are dear , Which adds very much to the charge of our Beer : How soon each may rise , we cannot devise , Yet both must be paid for , beside this Excise , by the Brewers . Let us Brew when we will , our Coppers and Mill , Beside the first cost , they are chargeable still ; On Sundays we work , like Pagan or Turk , And yet e'ry Draggle-tayl must give a jerk to the brewers . Our Horses are stout , or they could not hold out , And many fair pounds on them we lay out ; If they happen to die , some more we must buy , Which oft comes to pass , the Purse-strings for to try of the brewers . By Night and by Day , they eat Corn and Hay , Beside we must then buy our Harness and Dray ; Both which for to mend , our Money we spend , Which to lessen the profit does very much tend , of the brewers . All this much does add , to make our case sad , Our Servants great wages , beside , make us mad , Whom with much to do , from Pressmasters Crew , We can hardly preserve , yet must pay Taxes too . slighted brewers . Some strain all their wits , to run in our Debts , And when they do break , say it is for the bets ; By cunning and slight , on'th'Evenining take flight , Carry Drink to the Mint , and bid Landlord Good-Night , and the brewer . Our losses and crosses are much many more , Then we can remember , or knew of before ; Beside many rubs , we meet with base snubbs , If we give not Barrels to make Ale-Wives Tubbs , and our Firkins . Beside this Excise , how our Charges do rise , You plainly may see , if you open your Eyes ; That it is not this thing , which such profit does bring , For this Tax it surely was made for the King , not the brewers . FINIS . Printed for J. Millet , in Little-britain . The Brewers Answer ; Or , Their Vindication , against those Aspersions that hath been put upon them concerning the Double Excise . To the Tune of , The Orange . I F in this present Reign , the War to maintain , A Tax it is laid upon Liquour of Grain , Why should People halt , to find out a fault , Which none can discern , if it lie in the Malt , or the Brewers . Our Credit to stain , much pains hath been taken , But justly to balance our losses with gain , They do not intend , but this is their end , Which way that the Rabble may us most offend , slighted Brewers . What was the intent , of the good Parliament , We will not dispute , if you'll give your consent But a little to stay , and hear what we say , Before that you thus your aspersions do lay on the Brewers . Malt cheap is , we hear , but Coals they are dear , Which adds very much to the charge of our Beer : How soon each may rise , we cannot devise , Yet both must be paid for , beside this Excise , by the Brewers . Let us Brew when we will , our Coppers and Mill , Beside the first cost , they are chargeable still ; On Sundays we work , like Pagan or Turk , And yet e'ry Draggle-tayl must give a jerk to the brewers . Our Horses are stout , or they could not hold out , And many fair pounds on them we lay out ; If they happen to die , some more we must buy , Which oft comes to pass , the Purse-strings for to try of the brewers . By Night and by Day , they eat Corn and Hay , Beside we must then buy our Harness and Dray ; Both which for to mend , our Money we spend , Which to lessen the profit does very much tend , of the brewers . All this much does add , to make our case sad , Our Servants great wages , beside , make us mad , Whom with much to do , from Pressmasters Crew , We can hardly preserve , yet must pay Taxes too . slighted brewers . Some strain all their wits , to run in our Debts , And when they do break , say it is for the bets ; By cunning and slight , on'th'Evenining take flight , Carry Drink to the Mint , and bid Landlord Good-Night , and the brewer . Our losses and crosses are much many more , Then we can remember , or knew of before ; Beside many rubs , we meet with base snubbs , If we give not Barrels to make Ale-Wives Tubbs , and our Firkins . Beside this Excise , how our Charges do rise , You plainly may see , if you open your Eyes ; That it is not this thing , which such profit does bring , For this Tax it surely was made for the King , not the brewers . FINIS . Printed for J. Millet , in Little-britain . 