THE PAPIST PRAYERS FOR Father PETERS : OR , Their sad Lamentation for the Downfall of POPERY . Tune of , A Begging we will go . Licenced according to Order . TO Here is a Holy Father , whom we are bound to Curse , And for his evil Stratagems , we all shall fair the worse . For a wandering we must go , must go , must go , And a wandering we must go , So Zealous in his Knavery , he turned the State about ; Would tother turn had broke his Neck since we are all turned out : And a wandering we must go , etc He offered up his Prayers , the Virgin Mary smiled ; He prayed the Blessed Lady , the Queen might have a Child : But a wandering we must go , etc The Queen she soon Conceived , and at last the happy Hour , It made her speak so loud , the Bishops herd her to the TO ower , But a wandering we must go , must go , must go . And a wandering we must go . Of a Prince she was delivered , and as the storys told ; The Babe was full as lusty , as a Child a Quarter old : But a wandering we must go , etc The Tileman ' s Wife they say , who was well rewarded fored Presented to the Prince a Tile , to make the Child a Cart : But a wandering we must go , etc The babe was overjoyed , and looked upon the tile ; So pleased with his New Plaything , it made his Highness smile ? A and a wandering we must go , etc How bad is our Condition , now we must leave the Town : And all our Habitations quit , to wander up and down . And a wandering we must go must go , must go , And a wandering we must go . How wretched is our state , now our Guardian's god a fallen : The Devil take our Father Peters , and the Pope and all . For a wandering we must go , etc Now Popery is trampled down , the Protestants advance , And when the Nation settled , they'll take a touch with France : And a wandering we must go , etc They've clipped the Wings of popery , it can no longer fly ; But now is bound to stand the test , Of Lulla-Babe-by . And a wandering we must go , etc How blessed was our Condition , before we god a fallen ; But now we are Obliged , to bid adieu to all . And a wandering we must go , must go , must go , And a wandering we must go . Printed for , James Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the H ospital-Gate . THE PAPIST PRAYERS FOR Father PETERS : OR , Their sad Lamentation for the Downfall of POPERY . Tune of , A Begging we will go . Licenced according to Order . TO Here is a Holy Father , whom we are bound to Curse , And for his evil Stratagems , we all shall fair the worse . For a wandering we must go , must go , must go , And a wandering we must go , So Zealous in his Knavery , he turned the State about ; Would tother turn had broke his Neck since we are all turned out : And a wandering we must go , etc He offered up his Prayers , the Virgin Mary smiled ; He prayed the Blessed Lady , the Queen might have a Child : But a wandering we must go , etc The Queen she soon Conceived , and at last the happy Hour , It made her speak so loud , the Bishops herd her to the TO ower , But a wandering we must go , must go , must go . And a wandering we must go . Of a Prince she was delivered , and as the storys told ; The Babe was full as lusty , as a Child a Quarter old : But a wandering we must go , etc The Tileman ' s Wife they say , who was well rewarded fored Presented to the Prince a Tile , to make the Child a Cart : But a wandering we must go , etc The babe was overjoyed , and looked upon the tile ; So pleased with his New Plaything , it made his Highness smile ? A and a wandering we must go , etc How bad is our Condition , now we must leave the Town : And all our Habitations quit , to wander up and down . And a wandering we must go must go , must go , And a wandering we must go . How wretched is our state , now our Guardian's god a fallen : The Devil take our Father Peters , and the Pope and all . For a wandering we must go , etc Now Popery is trampled down , the Protestants advance , And when the Nation settled , they'll take a touch with France : And a wandering we must go , etc They've clipped the Wings of popery , it can no longer fly ; But now is bound to stand the test , Of Lulla-Babe-by . And a wandering we must go , etc How blessed was our Condition , before we god a fallen ; But now we are Obliged , to bid adieu to all . And a wandering we must go , must go , must go , And a wandering we must go . Printed for , James Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the H ospital-Gate . 