The Country men Delight . Or , The Happy Joys of a Country Life . Being a most pleasant New Song . How blessed are they who free from care and strife In humble Cottages do led their life ? They there poss those joys for which mankind Of higher Rank , labour in vain to find . They live more happy , at Content and Ease , Than Princes in their stately Palaces . They feel not the tempestuous Storms of state , Live all in peace are strangers to debate . To a new Tune of , Happy is the Country life , Or , Smiling Phillis , etc H Appy is the Country life , blessed with content , & amp ; health , and ease Free from Factious noise and strife , we only plot our selves to please : Peace of mind's the days worser [ e ] light , And Love our welcome joy at night . Haile green fields , and shady Woods , hail Springs and streams that still run pure Nature's uncorrupted good , where virtue only is secure . Free from vice , and free from care , Age is no grief nor Youth no snare . No sad fancies fill our breast , but happy , still we live at ease , Whilst Kings are with fears oppressed we have joy and lasting peace : Nature's pride bedecks each part , Whilst she to please us strains her art . In native green clothes each Plain with blooming sweets perfumes the Air , And with gentle showers of Rain makes us her free bounties share : The Birds in Groves , Woods , and Field , Do hourly pleasant Music yield . While purling streams gently glide through flowery meads where Flocks do graze And loving Swains on either side on slender Reeds tune soft lays , To charm each lovely Shepherdess , Whose looks her bashful thoughts express . Ignorant we are of wiles , desirous Mortals to ensnare , Who , still after many toils in courting the disdainful fair , Nothing get but flouts and scorns , have for one role a thousand thorns . Whilst like Infant nature we both in the streams of endless bliss , Air it self is not more free , nor ought exceed our happiness : Who then would not toils lay by ? and let Ambition-feavour die ? Who would not retire from strife ? from senseless noise , and lewd debate ? For a happy Country life , free from all cares and fears of state , Free from jealousy and pride , of greatness still the restless tide . Joys attend the opening Dawn , fresh pleasures they do ever spring , Courtier-like we cannot fawn , yet are as Loyal to our King , Flatterers we ever hate , those Caterpillars of the State . Who strange discord daily breed , raising fools hope's above the Sky , Yet leave them when they have most need , to plunge themselves in misery : In wholesome Ware still we deal , Such as we need not to conceal . On each green Bank we lie down , and sport it ' midst a thousand joys , Easier than on beds of Doune , whilst there no fear our love destroys : Violets still perfume our way , Till evening does shut up the day . Then to homely Cottages our bleating flocks we do convey ; Where soft slumber on us seizes , till Phoebus does restore the day : Who'd not then thus happy be ? thus blessed with all felicity . Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. P assenger . The Country men Delight . Or , The Happy Joys of a Country Life . Being a most pleasant New Song . How blessed are they who free from care and strife In humble Cottages do led their life ? They there poss those joys for which mankind Of higher Rank , labour in vain to find . They live more happy , at Content and Ease , Than Princes in their stately Palaces . They feel not the tempestuous Storms of state , Live all in peace are strangers to debate . To a new Tune of , Happy is the Country life , Or , Smiling Phillis , etc H Appy is the Country life , blessed with content , & amp ; health , and ease Free from Factious noise and strife , we only plot our selves to please : Peace of mind's the days worser [ e ] light , And Love our welcome joy at night . Haile green fields , and shady Woods , hail Springs and streams that still run pure Nature's uncorrupted good , where virtue only is secure . Free from vice , and free from care , Age is no grief nor Youth no snare . No sad fancies fill our breast , but happy , still we live at ease , Whilst Kings are with fears oppressed we have joy and lasting peace : Nature's pride bedecks each part , Whilst she to please us strains her art . In native green clothes each Plain with blooming sweets perfumes the Air , And with gentle showers of Rain makes us her free bounties share : The Birds in Groves , Woods , and Field , Do hourly pleasant Music yield . While purling streams gently glide through flowery meads where Flocks do graze And loving Swains on either side on slender Reeds tune soft lays , To charm each lovely Shepherdess , Whose looks her bashful thoughts express . Ignorant we are of wiles , desirous Mortals to ensnare , Who , still after many toils in courting the disdainful fair , Nothing get but flouts and scorns , have for one role a thousand thorns . Whilst like Infant nature we both in the streams of endless bliss , Air it self is not more free , nor ought exceed our happiness : Who then would not toils lay by ? and let Ambition-feavour die ? Who would not retire from strife ? from senseless noise , and lewd debate ? For a happy Country life , free from all cares and fears of state , Free from jealousy and pride , of greatness still the restless tide . Joys attend the opening Dawn , fresh pleasures they do ever spring , Courtier-like we cannot fawn , yet are as Loyal to our King , Flatterers we ever hate , those Caterpillars of the State . Who strange discord daily breed , raising fools hope's above the Sky , Yet leave them when they have most need , to plunge themselves in misery : In wholesome Ware still we deal , Such as we need not to conceal . On each green Bank we lie down , and sport it ' midst a thousand joys , Easier than on beds of Doune , whilst there no fear our love destroys : Violets still perfume our way , Till evening does shut up the day . Then to homely Cottages our bleating flocks we do convey ; Where soft slumber on us seizes , till Phoebus does restore the day : Who'd not then thus happy be ? thus blessed with all felicity . Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. P assenger . 