Michaelmas Term : The Citizens Kind Welcome to Countrymen , that from all parts of the Land come hither about their needless occasions ( needful I mean ) with a description of the seasons and manners of people therein employed . To the tune of , The Rambling Clerk . C Ome hither my Muse if that thou be'st cold , And warm thy self well with Promethian Fire , Which when thou hast done let me be bold , In matter of moment thy aid to require . My mind is resolved to write on a Theam , The which my expression I hope shall confirm , Those men that do room from all parts of the Realm I bid them all welcome to Michaelmans Term. The Tradesman of London with long Expectation , Have looked for the coming of this happy time , They are sick at the heart of the tedious vexation , But now on a sudden they'll be in their prime . They think themselves happy ; especially some , If Michaelmas rend and their diet they earn , But now they are glad for their harvest is come , The Country brings money to Michaelmas Term. The Inholders , Vintners , Victualers , and Cooks , through want of employment make grievus complaint In all this long season they were off o'th books , But now their read Lettice they do new paint , Some set up new signs or new flourish the old , And mend their old houses if they be infirm , To venture their money they dare well be be bold , In hope to regain it in Michaelmas Term. The Tapsters Ostlers , and Chamberlains all , Chiefly about Holborn , Fleet-street and the Strand , Since Trinity Term had takings but small , Which caused many of them to run behind hand . But now they are jovial and take heart a grace , And both nimble gestures and speeches they learn , Their gains now come tumbling in a great pace , Long time they have wished for Michaelmas Term. Some Attorneys and some that solicit Law cases , That all the Vacation in the Country plods , They like to King Janus can use double faces , And strive to set Neighbour with Neighbour at ods , Now hither they come with their bags full of Law , But the profits they all to themselves do confirm Although it be but for a Truss of Rye straw , The case must be tried at Michaelmas Term. The rambling Clerks that for lodging and diet Have run on the Ticket with Vitlers and Cooks , Beside now and then for some overplus royot , Some of them have pawned their gowns & amp ; their books O now they are frolic and sing care away , For Country Clients about them do swarm , Now all their old scores they'll be able to pay , Their hands are so nimble in Michaelmas Term. The threepenny Ordinaries are so full thronged , That there you can scarce get one bit of meat , Your country men proudly do scorn to be wronged , And yet their own bellies they basly will cheat . The Lawyers hands are still itching for fees , Which makes the plain hu s bandman let out his farm To come up to London to eat bred and cheese , While Lawyers eat Roastmeat in Michaelmas Term. The second P art [ , ] To the same Tune . TO He dainty fine Girls that keep shop in Change Against thy s quick season have been exercised , To furnish their coffers with fashions all strange , The finest and rarest that can be devi s ' worser , They keep their old Ditty , Sir what is't you lack , Which Country people are greedy to learn , The husband must carry the wife some new knack Or else he's not welcome from Michaelmas Term. The jovial Watermen trim up their Boats , And to be more pliant in plying their fares , With strong beer & amp ; Ale they do licker their throats For which they will wander to thee Alehouse by pairs And if the frost do not their labour prevent , Abundance of money they daily will earn , Which in the vacation will freely be spent , And then they will think upon Michaelmas Term. The feather-heeld wenches that live by their own , Who long have been needy for want of good trading , For when all the gallants are gone out o'th town , O then these fine Pinnaces lack their due lading : Therefore the vocation they rue like the rest , Because neither diet nor clothes they can earn , But now they're in hope well to feather their nest , They look for good doings in Michaelmas Term. Pick-pockets & amp ; Cheaters with Knights of thee Post , Do long for the Termtime like hencster men , Where concourse of people is , they do get most , With rooking exploits which they use now & amp ; then : And yet if they chance to be god in the neck , Thee hangman next sessions will teach them a charm Will cure their disease be they never so sick , O then will they think on Michaelmas Term. The Court and the City , the Country withal If you will behold a part of all three , Then come at this time to Westminster-hall , Where people from all parts assembled be : And thus I'll conclude as at first I begun , Experience all this for truth will confirm , I hope I have given distaste to no man For I bid them all welcome to Michaelmas Term. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Michaelmas Term : The Citizens Kind Welcome to Countrymen , that from all parts of the Land come hither about their needless occasions ( needful I mean ) with a description of the seasons and manners of people therein employed . To the tune of , The Rambling Clerk . C Ome hither my Muse if that thou be'st cold , And warm thy self well with Promethian Fire , Which when thou hast done let me be bold , In matter of moment thy aid to require . My mind is resolved to write on a Theam , The which my expression I hope shall confirm , Those men that do room from all parts of the Realm I bid them all welcome to Michaelmans Term. The Tradesman of London with long Expectation , Have looked for the coming of this happy time , They are sick at the heart of the tedious vexation , But now on a sudden they'll be in their prime . They think themselves happy ; especially some , If Michaelmas rend and their diet they earn , But now they are glad for their harvest is come , The Country brings money to Michaelmas Term. The Inholders , Vintners , Victualers , and Cooks , through want of employment make grievus complaint In all this long season they were off o'th books , But now their read Lettice they do new paint , Some set up new signs or new flourish the old , And mend their old houses if they be infirm , To venture their money they dare well be be bold , In hope to regain it in Michaelmas Term. The Tapsters Ostlers , and Chamberlains all , Chiefly about Holborn , Fleet-street and the Strand , Since Trinity Term had takings but small , Which caused many of them to run behind hand . But now they are jovial and take heart a grace , And both nimble gestures and speeches they learn , Their gains now come tumbling in a great pace , Long time they have wished for Michaelmas Term. Some Attorneys and some that solicit Law cases , That all the Vacation in the Country plods , They like to King Janus can use double faces , And strive to set Neighbour with Neighbour at ods , Now hither they come with their bags full of Law , But the profits they all to themselves do confirm Although it be but for a Truss of Rye straw , The case must be tried at Michaelmas Term. The rambling Clerks that for lodging and diet Have run on the Ticket with Vitlers and Cooks , Beside now and then for some overplus royot , Some of them have pawned their gowns & amp ; their books O now they are frolic and sing care away , For Country Clients about them do swarm , Now all their old scores they'll be able to pay , Their hands are so nimble in Michaelmas Term. The threepenny Ordinaries are so full thronged , That there you can scarce get one bit of meat , Your country men proudly do scorn to be wronged , And yet their own bellies they basly will cheat . The Lawyers hands are still itching for fees , Which makes the plain hu s bandman let out his farm To come up to London to eat bred and cheese , While Lawyers eat Roastmeat in Michaelmas Term. The second P art [ , ] To the same Tune . TO He dainty fine Girls that keep shop in Change Against thy s quick season have been exercised , To furnish their coffers with fashions all strange , The finest and rarest that can be devi s ' worser , They keep their old Ditty , Sir what is't you lack , Which Country people are greedy to learn , The husband must carry the wife some new knack Or else he's not welcome from Michaelmas Term. The jovial Watermen trim up their Boats , And to be more pliant in plying their fares , With strong beer & amp ; Ale they do licker their throats For which they will wander to thee Alehouse by pairs And if the frost do not their labour prevent , Abundance of money they daily will earn , Which in the vacation will freely be spent , And then they will think upon Michaelmas Term. The feather-heeld wenches that live by their own , Who long have been needy for want of good trading , For when all the gallants are gone out o'th town , O then these fine Pinnaces lack their due lading : Therefore the vocation they rue like the rest , Because neither diet nor clothes they can earn , But now they're in hope well to feather their nest , They look for good doings in Michaelmas Term. Pick-pockets & amp ; Cheaters with Knights of thee Post , Do long for the Termtime like hencster men , Where concourse of people is , they do get most , With rooking exploits which they use now & amp ; then : And yet if they chance to be god in the neck , Thee hangman next sessions will teach them a charm Will cure their disease be they never so sick , O then will they think on Michaelmas Term. The Court and the City , the Country withal If you will behold a part of all three , Then come at this time to Westminster-hall , Where people from all parts assembled be : And thus I'll conclude as at first I begun , Experience all this for truth will confirm , I hope I have given distaste to no man For I bid them all welcome to Michaelmas Term. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 