The Weavers Request . OR , Their Just COMPLAINT against the Rude Rabble , that revile against the Gentile Mode now in Fashion . To the Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be Printed . R.P. W E the brave Weavers of ancient renown , whom Fame has for ever recorded , Would know the reason we thus are run down instead of our being rewarded : Top-Knots of late the Rabble contemn , to ruin us is their endeavours ; Let some strict Order be taken with them , for why should they run down the Weavers ? It is well known we have been dismayed , although we did patiently take it ; Seven long years we have served for the Trade and yet have been forced to forsake it , Put to our shifts , and daily contrived by labour we did our endeavours ; But now since Top-Knots are wearing , we thrive , and therefore they run down the Weavers . Formerly Weavers their work was in haste , when Gallants did wear on their Breeches Ribbons at knees , nay , and all round the waste , Oh then the brave Weavers god Riches : But since , alas ! Dame Fortune does frown , affording us none of her Favours , Top-Knots are made the scoff of the Town , and all for to run down the Weavers . Women and Damosels they daily offend , and makes a most horrid Narration ; Nay , and the Rabble does likewise pretend that this is the Pride of the Nation : Fain would they keep their Betters in awe by flouting , which is their endeavours ; Let them be punished according to Law ; for why should they run down the Weavers ? Yet the Mechanic will hector and brag , enough to make any admire ; Yet we may see them as proud in a Rag as Ladies in sumptuous attire : Wearing of Knots they counted a Pride , to end it they do their endeavours , And would have Women now lay them aside , in order to run down the Weavers . But let them all be as mad as they will , that seem to be highly offended ; Women their Top-Knots I'ld have them wear still then shall they be highly commended . Never regard what any shall say , for they are but sorry deceivers ; I would have Women go gallant and gay ; for why should they run down the Weavers ? Had it not been for the Women indeed , our Trade had been utterly fallen ; But by the making them Ribbon and Breed , it was a great help in our Calling . Therefore we ought to speak in their praise from whom we received such favours ; Long may they flourish with happy good days , for being so kind to the Weavers . Those that does offer abuse are to blame , to Weavers , who never offended ; Let Gallants go still like Persons of Fame , since they are most Nobly-descended : And as for those that will be so rude for Ruin they make their endeavours , By some strict Order let them be subdued : This is the Desire of the Weavers . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . The Weavers Request . OR , Their Just COMPLAINT against the Rude Rabble , that revile against the Gentile Mode now in Fashion . To the Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be Printed . R.P. W E the brave Weavers of ancient renown , whom Fame has for ever recorded , Would know the reason we thus are run down instead of our being rewarded : Top-Knots of late the Rabble contemn , to ruin us is their endeavours ; Let some strict Order be taken with them , for why should they run down the Weavers ? It is well known we have been dismayed , although we did patiently take it ; Seven long years we have served for the Trade and yet have been forced to forsake it , Put to our shifts , and daily contrived by labour we did our endeavours ; But now since Top-Knots are wearing , we thrive , and therefore they run down the Weavers . Formerly Weavers their work was in haste , when Gallants did wear on their Breeches Ribbons at knees , nay , and all round the waste , Oh then the brave Weavers god Riches : But since , alas ! Dame Fortune does frown , affording us none of her Favours , Top-Knots are made the scoff of the Town , and all for to run down the Weavers . Women and Damosels they daily offend , and makes a most horrid Narration ; Nay , and the Rabble does likewise pretend that this is the Pride of the Nation : Fain would they keep their Betters in awe by flouting , which is their endeavours ; Let them be punished according to Law ; for why should they run down the Weavers ? Yet the Mechanic will hector and brag , enough to make any admire ; Yet we may see them as proud in a Rag as Ladies in sumptuous attire : Wearing of Knots they counted a Pride , to end it they do their endeavours , And would have Women now lay them aside , in order to run down the Weavers . But let them all be as mad as they will , that seem to be highly offended ; Women their Top-Knots I'ld have them wear still then shall they be highly commended . Never regard what any shall say , for they are but sorry deceivers ; I would have Women go gallant and gay ; for why should they run down the Weavers ? Had it not been for the Women indeed , our Trade had been utterly fallen ; But by the making them Ribbon and Breed , it was a great help in our Calling . Therefore we ought to speak in their praise from whom we received such favours ; Long may they flourish with happy good days , for being so kind to the Weavers . Those that does offer abuse are to blame , to Weavers , who never offended ; Let Gallants go still like Persons of Fame , since they are most Nobly-descended : And as for those that will be so rude for Ruin they make their endeavours , By some strict Order let them be subdued : This is the Desire of the Weavers . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 