The Careless Gallant , Or , A Farewell to Sorrow . Whither these Lines do please , or give offence , Or shall be damned as neither wit nor sense ; The Poet is , for that , in no suspense , For ie is all one a hundred years hence . To and Excellent , and delightful Tune . L Et us sing and merry , dance , joke and rejoice , With Claret and Sherry , Theorbo and voice , The changeable world to our joy is unjust , All treasures uncertain , Then down with your dust : I n frolicks dispose your pounds , shillings , and pence For we shall be nothing a hundred years hence . We'll sport and be free , with Frank , Betty , and Dolly Have Losters and Oysters to cure melancholy , Fish-dinners will make a man Spring like a Flay , Dame Venus , loves Lady was born of the Sea : With her and with Bacchus we'll tickle the sense , For we shall be past it a hundred years hence , Your beautiful bit , who hath all eyes upon her , That her honesty sells for a hog go of honour , Whose lightness and brightness does cast such a splender That none art thought fit , But the Stars to attend her ; Though now she seems pleasant , & amp ; sweet to the sense Will be damnable mouldy a hundred years hence , Your greatest Grand-Seignior who rants it in riot , Nor suffering his poor Christian neighbours live quiet , Whose numberless army to him belongs , Consists of more Nations , Than Babble hath tongues : Though numerous as dust , yet in spite of defence , Shall all lie in ashes a hundred years hence . Your Usurer that in the hundred takes twenty . Who wants in his wealth , and pines in his plenty , Lays up for a season which he shall never see , The year one thousand , Eight hundred and three ; Shall have changed all his Bags his houses & amp ; Rends For a wormeaten Coffin a hundred years hence . Y our Chancery - Lawyer , who by conscience thrives In spinning a suit to the length of three lives , A suit which the Client does wear out in slavery , while pleader makes conscience a cloak for his Knavery : Can boast of his cunning but i'th present-Tence , For Non est inventus a hundred years hence . Then why should we Turmoil in cares and fears , And turn our tranquillity to sighs and tears , Let's eat drink , & amp ; play , ever the worms do corrupt us For I say , that Post mortem nulla voluptas : let's deal with our damsels that we may from thence Have brood's to succeed us a hundred years hence . I never could gain satisfaction upon , Your dreams of a bliss when we'r cold as a stone , The Sages , call us Drunkards , Glutons , & amp ; wenchers But we find such Morsels , upon their own Trenchers : For Abigal , Hannah and sister Prudence , Will simper to nothing a hundred years hence . The Plush-coated Quack that his fees to enlarge , Kills people with Licence , and at their own charge , Who builds a vast structure of ill got wealth , from the degrees of a Pisspot , and ruins of health : Though treasures of life he pretends to dispense . Shall be turned into mumy a hundred years hence The Buterflye Courtier that Peagant of state , The Mousetrap of honour and Maygame of fate , With all his ambitions , intrigues , and his tricks , must die like a Clown , and then drop into Stix ; His plots against death , art too slender a fence , For he'l be out of fashion a hundred years hence . Yea the Poet himself that so loftily sings , As he scorns any subject's , but Hero's or Kings , Must to the Caprico's of fortune submit , and often be counted a fool for his wit , Thus beauty , wit , wealth , law learning , and sense All come to nothing a hundred years hence . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Careless Gallant , Or , A Farewell to Sorrow . Whither these Lines do please , or give offence , Or shall be damned as neither wit nor sense ; The Poet is , for that , in no suspense , For ie is all one a hundred years hence . To and Excellent , and delightful Tune . L Et us sing and merry , dance , joke and rejoice , With Claret and Sherry , Theorbo and voice , The changeable world to our joy is unjust , All treasures uncertain , Then down with your dust : I n frolicks dispose your pounds , shillings , and pence For we shall be nothing a hundred years hence . We'll sport and be free , with Frank , Betty , and Dolly Have Losters and Oysters to cure melancholy , Fish-dinners will make a man Spring like a Flay , Dame Venus , loves Lady was born of the Sea : With her and with Bacchus we'll tickle the sense , For we shall be past it a hundred years hence , Your beautiful bit , who hath all eyes upon her , That her honesty sells for a hog go of honour , Whose lightness and brightness does cast such a splender That none art thought fit , But the Stars to attend her ; Though now she seems pleasant , & amp ; sweet to the sense Will be damnable mouldy a hundred years hence , Your greatest Grand-Seignior who rants it in riot , Nor suffering his poor Christian neighbours live quiet , Whose numberless army to him belongs , Consists of more Nations , Than Babble hath tongues : Though numerous as dust , yet in spite of defence , Shall all lie in ashes a hundred years hence . Your Usurer that in the hundred takes twenty . Who wants in his wealth , and pines in his plenty , Lays up for a season which he shall never see , The year one thousand , Eight hundred and three ; Shall have changed all his Bags his houses & amp ; Rends For a wormeaten Coffin a hundred years hence . Y our Chancery - Lawyer , who by conscience thrives In spinning a suit to the length of three lives , A suit which the Client does wear out in slavery , while pleader makes conscience a cloak for his Knavery : Can boast of his cunning but i'th present-Tence , For Non est inventus a hundred years hence . Then why should we Turmoil in cares and fears , And turn our tranquillity to sighs and tears , Let's eat drink , & amp ; play , ever the worms do corrupt us For I say , that Post mortem nulla voluptas : let's deal with our damsels that we may from thence Have brood's to succeed us a hundred years hence . I never could gain satisfaction upon , Your dreams of a bliss when we'r cold as a stone , The Sages , call us Drunkards , Glutons , & amp ; wenchers But we find such Morsels , upon their own Trenchers : For Abigal , Hannah and sister Prudence , Will simper to nothing a hundred years hence . The Plush-coated Quack that his fees to enlarge , Kills people with Licence , and at their own charge , Who builds a vast structure of ill got wealth , from the degrees of a Pisspot , and ruins of health : Though treasures of life he pretends to dispense . Shall be turned into mumy a hundred years hence The Buterflye Courtier that Peagant of state , The Mousetrap of honour and Maygame of fate , With all his ambitions , intrigues , and his tricks , must die like a Clown , and then drop into Stix ; His plots against death , art too slender a fence , For he'l be out of fashion a hundred years hence . Yea the Poet himself that so loftily sings , As he scorns any subject's , but Hero's or Kings , Must to the Caprico's of fortune submit , and often be counted a fool for his wit , Thus beauty , wit , wealth , law learning , and sense All come to nothing a hundred years hence . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 