The Somersetshire Wonder : BEING A True Relation of a Cow within 8 mile of bath , who brought forth a Calf , with the Likeness of a Woman's Headdress , being a COMMODE , near Half a yard high , which Calf will be shortly brought to the Tower of London , there to be exposed to all curious Spectators . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . Y Oung Women and Damsels , I'ld have you draw near , It's you that have Reason this day to give ear ; Remember your strange and fantastical Dress , As Towers and Topknots such Pride in excess , Has caused Strange Wonders and Signs to be sent , In hope's that thereby you in time will repent . Young Damsels have often been told of their Pride , And have been admonished to lay it aside ; Yet in the defiance of what can be said , In Towers like Antics they will be arrayed ; Not minding the Wonders and Signs that are sent In order to call them in time to repent . The very Brutus Beasts have at sundry times , Set forth the Proud Women's detestable Crimes ; As bringing the absolute From in the World Of Topknots and Towers , with Locks finely curled And will not those wonderful Signs that are sent , Engage you young Women this day to repent ? among them Miraculous Wonders , we hear , One happened of late in fair Somersetshire , The which many Hundred Spectators beheld , Who were at the sighed with astonishment filled : Oh let the strange Wonders and Signs that are sent , Engage the young Women , etc A Cow in those Parts being eased of her Load , She brought forth a Calf with a flaunting Commode , Exact like the London proved Women's Attire ; At which the good Farmer did strange and admire ; He straight was concluding this Wonder was sent , To call proud young Women in time to repent . The Farmer with others they streightways agreed To measure the highth of this Commode with speed . When as it appearing by all standers by , To be I must tell you near half a Yard high : All Persons concluding this Wonder was sent To call the proud Women in time to repent . The News being spread of this monstrous sighed , They came from all Cities and Towns day and night ; When seeing the Wonder , they stood in a maze , Declaring they never before in their Days Had herd of the like , sure this Wonder was sent To call the proud Women , etc When many had seen it , the Calf then he sold . And in the fair Tower of London behold It will be exposed to every ones view ; Although it be strange it is absolute true : This Wonder of Wonders kind Heaven has sent To call the proud Women , etc Proud Women you see that your Sins are revealed This day by the very Brutus Beasts in the Field ; Therefore I would have you this Minute reclaim , And throw by your Towers and Topknots for shame , I tell you these Wonders from Heaven are sent , To call the proud Women , etc Young Women and Damsels how dare you contend , For Pride when you know by the same you offend , If these present Warnings at length will not do , With sharper Corrections he may Visit you : We know that these Wondered Signs they are sent To Council , and call you this day to Repent . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back [ . ] The Somersetshire Wonder : BEING A True Relation of a Cow within 8 mile of bath , who brought forth a Calf , with the Likeness of a Woman's Headdress , being a COMMODE , near Half a yard high , which Calf will be shortly brought to the Tower of London , there to be exposed to all curious Spectators . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . Y Oung Women and Damsels , I'ld have you draw near , It's you that have Reason this day to give ear ; Remember your strange and fantastical Dress , As Towers and Topknots such Pride in excess , Has caused Strange Wonders and Signs to be sent , In hope's that thereby you in time will repent . Young Damsels have often been told of their Pride , And have been admonished to lay it aside ; Yet in the defiance of what can be said , In Towers like Antics they will be arrayed ; Not minding the Wonders and Signs that are sent In order to call them in time to repent . The very Brutus Beasts have at sundry times , Set forth the Proud Women's detestable Crimes ; As bringing the absolute From in the World Of Topknots and Towers , with Locks finely curled And will not those wonderful Signs that are sent , Engage you young Women this day to repent ? among them Miraculous Wonders , we hear , One happened of late in fair Somersetshire , The which many Hundred Spectators beheld , Who were at the sighed with astonishment filled : Oh let the strange Wonders and Signs that are sent , Engage the young Women , etc A Cow in those Parts being eased of her Load , She brought forth a Calf with a flaunting Commode , Exact like the London proved Women's Attire ; At which the good Farmer did strange and admire ; He straight was concluding this Wonder was sent , To call proud young Women in time to repent . The Farmer with others they streightways agreed To measure the highth of this Commode with speed . When as it appearing by all standers by , To be I must tell you near half a Yard high : All Persons concluding this Wonder was sent To call the proud Women in time to repent . The News being spread of this monstrous sighed , They came from all Cities and Towns day and night ; When seeing the Wonder , they stood in a maze , Declaring they never before in their Days Had herd of the like , sure this Wonder was sent To call the proud Women , etc When many had seen it , the Calf then he sold . And in the fair Tower of London behold It will be exposed to every ones view ; Although it be strange it is absolute true : This Wonder of Wonders kind Heaven has sent To call the proud Women , etc Proud Women you see that your Sins are revealed This day by the very Brutus Beasts in the Field ; Therefore I would have you this Minute reclaim , And throw by your Towers and Topknots for shame , I tell you these Wonders from Heaven are sent , To call the proud Women , etc Young Women and Damsels how dare you contend , For Pride when you know by the same you offend , If these present Warnings at length will not do , With sharper Corrections he may Visit you : We know that these Wondered Signs they are sent To Council , and call you this day to Repent . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back [ . ] 