A Dialogue Between Tom and Jack , Two North-Country Plowmen , Containing their witty Discourse , and pleasant pastime In their Travels up to the City of London ; whither they were going to seek their Fortune . To the Tune of the Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order . S Soot Tom and Jack from Cumberland , Would Travel up to London Town , Each with a pike-Staff in his hand , To knock all Thieves and Padders down . Who might beset them by the way , To Rob them of their present store , Faith they vowed to show them play , [ ? ] [ s ] having [ full ] Ten Groats and more . With merry Tales they passed along , Till they did happily espy , A stately Building large and long , A pleasant River running by . Udz-waggers Tom , says lusty Jack , The mon that owns this stately place , Both Gold and Silver does not lack , It's built with such a sumptuous grace . If I my Judgement have not lost , When this fair Hall was first built new , Forty broad Shillings it did cost , Dear Brother Jack , now what say you , Tush fool , said he , our Landlords house , which e'nt so big as this by four , When it was built by Goodman Rouse , It cost as much as that , and more . This stately Building from the ground , Up to the highest ridge of all , I am persuaded cost Nine Pound , Your Skill in Building is but small . Since the first hour I was born , So large a House I never came near , The Barns too they are cramed with Corn , I'll warrant you some King lives here . As by the House they both did walk , And viewing the fair Silver Spring , They straight did fallen into a talk , What each would wish for , if a King . At this stout Tom his Ears did claw and told his Brother Jack then soon , He'd have a Truss of good wheat straw , on which he'd lie a Bed till Noon . The next thing that I would desire I know it would my fancy fit , I'ld have a lusty rousing fire , and in the Chimney Corner fit . And further more I tell to you , if I was but a King I say , I'ld have fat Beef and Bacon too , likewise Bag Puddings every Day . As I went to the Blow and Cart , I'ld have a Bottle of the best , The which I love with all my heart , what sayest thou Jack , I an't in Jest . New Hose and Shoes , I'ld likewise have a Hat , and Jacket lined with Bays , Then should I be both fine and brave , among the Maids on Holidays . Now I have let you understand what I would have if King I were , Tell me your wishes out of Hand , for Brother Jack it is but fair . Jack answered him immediately , since it is so , pray take the rest , What good things is there left for me , since you have picked and choosed the best , Tom . You know full well my lot was first , therefore I took this Golden Rule , As Knowing if I chosen the worst , e'faith I knew you'd call me fool . But Dearest Brother do not frown , your Pardon here this day I crave , Pray let us post to London Town . who knows what Fortune we may have . As soon as ever I come there , I'll do you all the good I can , If they should choose me for Lord Mayor , then you shall be my waiting man . Printed for P. Prooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . A Dialogue Between Tom and Jack , Two North-Country Plowmen , Containing their witty Discourse , and pleasant pastime In their Travels up to the City of London ; whither they were going to seek their Fortune . To the Tune of the Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order . S Soot Tom and Jack from Cumberland , Would Travel up to London Town , Each with a pike-Staff in his hand , To knock all Thieves and Padders down . Who might beset them by the way , To Rob them of their present store , Faith they vowed to show them play , [ ? ] [ s ] having [ full ] Ten Groats and more . With merry Tales they passed along , Till they did happily espy , A stately Building large and long , A pleasant River running by . Udz-waggers Tom , says lusty Jack , The mon that owns this stately place , Both Gold and Silver does not lack , It's built with such a sumptuous grace . If I my Judgement have not lost , When this fair Hall was first built new , Forty broad Shillings it did cost , Dear Brother Jack , now what say you , Tush fool , said he , our Landlords house , which e'nt so big as this by four , When it was built by Goodman Rouse , It cost as much as that , and more . This stately Building from the ground , Up to the highest ridge of all , I am persuaded cost Nine Pound , Your Skill in Building is but small . Since the first hour I was born , So large a House I never came near , The Barns too they are cramed with Corn , I'll warrant you some King lives here . As by the House they both did walk , And viewing the fair Silver Spring , They straight did fallen into a talk , What each would wish for , if a King . At this stout Tom his Ears did claw and told his Brother Jack then soon , He'd have a Truss of good wheat straw , on which he'd lie a Bed till Noon . The next thing that I would desire I know it would my fancy fit , I'ld have a lusty rousing fire , and in the Chimney Corner fit . And further more I tell to you , if I was but a King I say , I'ld have fat Beef and Bacon too , likewise Bag Puddings every Day . As I went to the Blow and Cart , I'ld have a Bottle of the best , The which I love with all my heart , what sayest thou Jack , I an't in Jest . New Hose and Shoes , I'ld likewise have a Hat , and Jacket lined with Bays , Then should I be both fine and brave , among the Maids on Holidays . Now I have let you understand what I would have if King I were , Tell me your wishes out of Hand , for Brother Jack it is but fair . Jack answered him immediately , since it is so , pray take the rest , What good things is there left for me , since you have picked and choosed the best , Tom . You know full well my lot was first , therefore I took this Golden Rule , As Knowing if I chosen the worst , e'faith I knew you'd call me fool . But Dearest Brother do not frown , your Pardon here this day I crave , Pray let us post to London Town . who knows what Fortune we may have . As soon as ever I come there , I'll do you all the good I can , If they should choose me for Lord Mayor , then you shall be my waiting man . Printed for P. Prooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 