The Miser mumped of his Gold : OR , The merry Frolic of a Lady of Pleasure , in Bartholomew - Fair : Showing , how she fed the Usurer with big , but made him pay for the Sauce . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . A Lady of Pleasure in Bartholomew - Fair , Was powdered and painted , nay dressed in her Hair , In such rich Apparel she then did appear , As if her Estate was Ten Thousand a Year : Of each huffing Gallant she would make and Ass , She fed them with big , but they paid for the Sauce . Among all the rest , I will mention but one , A Miser , who is in fair London well known , Yet I will forbear now to mention his Name , Because I am willing to keep free from blame ; Of this wretched Miser she made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . ' This known this old Miser he seldom did eat , From Years-end to Years-end , a meal of good Meat , Except i [ ? ] was given him freely , and then He would eat as much as five labouring Men : He happened to meet with this Beautiful Lass , Who fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . It happened this Miser went over the Rounds , And under his Arm he had sevenscore Pounds , The which he was going that Morning to lend ; This Lady she met him , and said , my dear Friend , Your former good Nature lays claim to a Glass ; She found Wine and big , but he paid for the Sowce . The Miser he told her , he dare not drink Wine , Nor any such Liquers , until he had Dined ; Quoth she , since we here did so luckily meet , I now am resolved to give thee a Treat ; Away to her Chamber they straightways did pass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . A Dinner she straightways provided with speed , The Miser he like and old Farmer did feed , Concluding that he should have nothing to pay , But to eat and drink , aye and so go his way : The Lady supplied him with Glass after Glass , She found him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . This Lady supplied him with Liquour good store , Till he was not able to drink any more , Full Bowls of Canary he had drank so deep , That all of a sudden he fell fast asleep : Thus of this Old Miser she made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . She shook him , and finding that he would not wake , The Sevenscore Pound she did presently take ; Then locking the Miser up in and old Chest , This brings me , in short , to the Cream of the Jest : Thus her waggish purpose was soon brought to pass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . Now he having told her before where he dwelled , In this subtle manner she cunningly dealt ; Straight calling a Porter to finish this strife , The Miser she sent in a Chest to his Wife , Without ever a Penny in Silver , alas ! Thus she fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . This Lady she gave him two Shillings at first , And bid him be sure he was true to his Trust , Now for to deliver his Burden with Care ; For why I must tell you it is Merchant's Ware : And thus the poor Miser was made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . Now just as the Porter came home to his Door , The Miser awaked and loudly did roar ; The honest poor Porter was frighened alack ! Supposing he had Old Neck at his back : But it was the wretched Old Miser , alas ! Who was fed with big , but he paid for the Sauce . The Wife she was frightened this Wretch to behold ; The Miser stark mad for his Silver and Gold , But all was in vain , though he searched Smithfield round , The Lady of Pleasure was not to be feund Thus of and old Miser she made a mere Ass , She gave him roast big , but he paid for the Sauce . Printed for P. Brooksby , J Deacon , J. Blare , J BackThe Miser mumped of his Gold : OR , The merry Frolic of a Lady of Pleasure , in Bartholomew - Fair : Showing , how she fed the Usurer with big , but made him pay for the Sauce . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . A Lady of Pleasure in Bartholomew - Fair , Was powdered and painted , nay dressed in her Hair , In such rich Apparel she then did appear , As if her Estate was Ten Thousand a Year : Of each huffing Gallant she would make and Ass , She fed them with big , but they paid for the Sauce . Among all the rest , I will mention but one , A Miser , who is in fair London well known , Yet I will forbear now to mention his Name , Because I am willing to keep free from blame ; Of this wretched Miser she made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . ' This known this old Miser he seldom did eat , From Years-end to Years-end , a meal of good Meat , Except i [ ? ] was given him freely , and then He would eat as much as five labouring Men : He happened to meet with this Beautiful Lass , Who fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . It happened this Miser went over the Rounds , And under his Arm he had sevenscore Pounds , The which he was going that Morning to lend ; This Lady she met him , and said , my dear Friend , Your former good Nature lays claim to a Glass ; She found Wine and big , but he paid for the Sowce . The Miser he told her , he dare not drink Wine , Nor any such Liquers , until he had Dined ; Quoth she , since we here did so luckily meet , I now am resolved to give thee a Treat ; Away to her Chamber they straightways did pass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . A Dinner she straightways provided with speed , The Miser he like and old Farmer did feed , Concluding that he should have nothing to pay , But to eat and drink , aye and so go his way : The Lady supplied him with Glass after Glass , She found him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . This Lady supplied him with Liquour good store , Till he was not able to drink any more , Full Bowls of Canary he had drank so deep , That all of a sudden he fell fast asleep : Thus of this Old Miser she made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . She shook him , and finding that he would not wake , The Sevenscore Pound she did presently take ; Then locking the Miser up in and old Chest , This brings me , in short , to the Cream of the Jest : Thus her waggish purpose was soon brought to pass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . Now he having told her before where he dwelled , In this subtle manner she cunningly dealt ; Straight calling a Porter to finish this strife , The Miser she sent in a Chest to his Wife , Without ever a Penny in Silver , alas ! Thus she fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . This Lady she gave him two Shillings at first , And bid him be sure he was true to his Trust , Now for to deliver his Burden with Care ; For why I must tell you it is Merchant's Ware : And thus the poor Miser was made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . Now just as the Porter came home to his Door , The Miser awaked and loudly did roar ; The honest poor Porter was frighened alack ! Supposing he had Old Neck at his back : But it was the wretched Old Miser , alas ! Who was fed with big , but he paid for the Sauce . The Wife she was frightened this Wretch to behold ; The Miser stark mad for his Silver and Gold , But all was in vain , though he searched Smithfield round , The Lady of Pleasure was not to be feund Thus of and old Miser she made a mere Ass , She gave him roast big , but he paid for the Sauce . Printed for P. Brooksby , J Deacon , J. Blare , J Back 