A New SONG , Called , The Musical Couple , Or , the Merry Northern Lass. With The pleasant Pastimes between a Country Lass , and a brisk C ountry Bachelor . To a New Playhouse Tune . With Allowance . THere was a Maid in the North-country , And she was as gallant as gallant might be , And as frolicsome too as ever you see With her Tol de ra lal etc There was a young Man and he had a good will With this fair Maid for to try his skill , He pulled out his Fiddle to play in the middle Of my Tol , etc Young Man said she I'll tell you your fault , Your will is good but your skill is stark nought , You're sometime to high , & amp ; sometime too low With your Tol , etc Fair Maiden excuse a learner at this Though instead of hitting I chanced to miss , When the Instrument's tuned I'll find out the bliss Of a Tol , etc She laid her Lute before me then , And bid me play with my own Pen , among 500 strings and ten On her Tol , etc I handled her Lute and I gave it a touch , The pleasantness of it to her proved such She said she could never have my Music too much Tol , etc The Instrument was so fair to the Eye I could not forbear the strings for to try When I saw them all fixed in Ivory With Tol , etc Quoth I fair Maid your Lute is well strung , I'll play one Lesson , and then I begun To strike up a Tune while she with me Sung Tol , etc She took my Fiddle into her hand , And said sh'e have it at her command , For it made the best Music in all the Land With Tol , etc Kind Lass said I both Morning and Noon , You may have the Music whenever you come , Provided my Fiddle be not out of Tune For Tol , etc She begged one Jig more before we did part , For the Musical Fiddle had wounded her heart And as she desired I eased her smart Wit I Tol , etc It was in a Meadow where nothing was over us That we in Music so joined in a Chorus , There never was Couple played better before u [ s ] On Tol , etc . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . A New SONG , Called , The Musical Couple , Or , the Merry Northern Lass. With The pleasant Pastimes between a Country Lass , and a brisk C ountry Bachelor . To a New Playhouse Tune . With Allowance . THere was a Maid in the North-country , And she was as gallant as gallant might be , And as frolicsome too as ever you see With her Tol de ra lal etc There was a young Man and he had a good will With this fair Maid for to try his skill , He pulled out his Fiddle to play in the middle Of my Tol , etc Young Man said she I'll tell you your fault , Your will is good but your skill is stark nought , You're sometime to high , & amp ; sometime too low With your Tol , etc Fair Maiden excuse a learner at this Though instead of hitting I chanced to miss , When the Instrument's tuned I'll find out the bliss Of a Tol , etc She laid her Lute before me then , And bid me play with my own Pen , among 500 strings and ten On her Tol , etc I handled her Lute and I gave it a touch , The pleasantness of it to her proved such She said she could never have my Music too much Tol , etc The Instrument was so fair to the Eye I could not forbear the strings for to try When I saw them all fixed in Ivory With Tol , etc Quoth I fair Maid your Lute is well strung , I'll play one Lesson , and then I begun To strike up a Tune while she with me Sung Tol , etc She took my Fiddle into her hand , And said sh'e have it at her command , For it made the best Music in all the Land With Tol , etc Kind Lass said I both Morning and Noon , You may have the Music whenever you come , Provided my Fiddle be not out of Tune For Tol , etc She begged one Jig more before we did part , For the Musical Fiddle had wounded her heart And as she desired I eased her smart Wit I Tol , etc It was in a Meadow where nothing was over us That we in Music so joined in a Chorus , There never was Couple played better before u [ s ] On Tol , etc . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 