THE Charmed Lover ; OR , A Young Man that Courted a Welch LADY , For the sake of her BEAUTY . Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of , Sir John Johnson's Farewell AS I was walking in the Fields , My self to recreate , And take the Pleasure Summer yields ; Two lovers I saw sat , Near to a pleasant Rivers Side , In a Morning fresh and gay , Where Love and Virtue does abide , But mark what he does say . M y Love your like the Phoenix fair , That is so fine and gay ; No Beauty may with you compare , Though decked in rich Array ; Your Presence is my whole Delight , And glorious is your Nature Of Love , Virtue , and Beauty bright , England is fair dainty Dame . Your cery Cheeks , and rudy Lips , Have set my Heart on fire , I , and your pretty smiling Looks , M y Soul does much admire : Your Beauty shines exceedingly , M such like the Sun above ; For which have I so mightily , Upon you fixed my Love . Your crisped Locks like Threads of Gold , Does in my Sighed appear , Your Teeth like Ivory I behold , And Jewels in each Ear : A lovely Creature , sure are you Exceeding fine and gay , Of shining Beauty and Virtue , That never can decay . A glorious Name and good Report , On you I'll ever give ; For none but you can me comfort , While that I here does live : Not one in all the World is found , That can to you compare ; Where Love and Virtue does abound , In you my only Dear . I pray my Love , don't say me nay , But grant me my Desire , And yield to be my Bride strait , And quench a burning Fire : The Fire of Love's exceeding fierce , And burns in a Rage ; Such are my Torments in the least , No one can them assuage . But you my only Joy and Deer , Can ease me of my Smart , And quench those hellish Torments where , They rage in my poor Heart , Your Love and Virtue is full sure , Where once it does begin , And in a Moments time can cure , The pains that I am in . My Dear and well-beloved Swain , A small Request I crave , That is , your true Love to obtain , And shield me from the Grave : For surely if you me deny , Your Person and your Love , Alas ! then I for you must die ; or wander in a Grove . London , Printed by J. Willkins , in White-Fryers . THE Charmed Lover ; OR , A Young Man that Courted a Welch LADY , For the sake of her BEAUTY . Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of , Sir John Johnson's Farewell AS I was walking in the Fields , My self to recreate , And take the Pleasure Summer yields ; Two lovers I saw sat , Near to a pleasant Rivers Side , In a Morning fresh and gay , Where Love and Virtue does abide , But mark what he does say . M y Love your like the Phoenix fair , That is so fine and gay ; No Beauty may with you compare , Though decked in rich Array ; Your Presence is my whole Delight , And glorious is your Nature Of Love , Virtue , and Beauty bright , England is fair dainty Dame . Your cery Cheeks , and rudy Lips , Have set my Heart on fire , I , and your pretty smiling Looks , M y Soul does much admire : Your Beauty shines exceedingly , M such like the Sun above ; For which have I so mightily , Upon you fixed my Love . Your crisped Locks like Threads of Gold , Does in my Sighed appear , Your Teeth like Ivory I behold , And Jewels in each Ear : A lovely Creature , sure are you Exceeding fine and gay , Of shining Beauty and Virtue , That never can decay . A glorious Name and good Report , On you I'll ever give ; For none but you can me comfort , While that I here does live : Not one in all the World is found , That can to you compare ; Where Love and Virtue does abound , In you my only Dear . I pray my Love , don't say me nay , But grant me my Desire , And yield to be my Bride strait , And quench a burning Fire : The Fire of Love's exceeding fierce , And burns in a Rage ; Such are my Torments in the least , No one can them assuage . But you my only Joy and Deer , Can ease me of my Smart , And quench those hellish Torments where , They rage in my poor Heart , Your Love and Virtue is full sure , Where once it does begin , And in a Moments time can cure , The pains that I am in . My Dear and well-beloved Swain , A small Request I crave , That is , your true Love to obtain , And shield me from the Grave : For surely if you me deny , Your Person and your Love , Alas ! then I for you must die ; or wander in a Grove . London , Printed by J. Willkins , in White-Fryers . 