The Maidens Resolution ; OR , And ANSWER to the ADVICE against TOP-KNOTS . Tune of , You Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R P. W Hat is the matter you make such ado , come tell us we now do require ? Must we young Damsels be ruled by you , concerning our Youthful Attire ? Are we not brisk and just in our prime , then what is the cause we should spare it ? Though we wear Top-Knots , I hope it's no Crime , for if we win Gold we will wear it . As for the Women of Old , which you say , might learn us a modest Behaviour ; They , I declare , was as proud in their way , as we in our flourishing Favour : Had they not Gold and other rich Stuff ? to us they were no ways inferior , She was no Woman that had not a Ruff , the which was a thousand times dearer . Dragel'd-tayled Girls , you are pleased to call the Country Damsels at pleasure , Are they not often the best of us all in London , well furnished with Treasure ? Is not the best of Citizens Wives , from Country-Cities descended ? Here they do flourish and led happy lives , then why should you Fools be offended ? E Very Damsel of Beauty so bright , you say they'll make Shipwreck of Credit , For a Top-Knot , which is all their delight , but he is a Rascal that said it : For I protest you're something too rude , since under a Scandal you laid us , Count us and call us the Billings-gate Crew , you do what you can to Degrade us . Why should not Kate the Cook-Maid have a Knot , if she has wherewith to afford it ? Is't not to Fame , pray , a far fouler blot , for Maidens like Misers to hoard it ? If in their Dress , which gallant they went , a Wealthy good Husband they Marry , Then has the Top-Knot brought perfect content , when other poor Gillians may tarry . Towers and Top-Knots , it seems you have said , we often take up by the Tally , Yet the poor Creditor seldom is paid , but do you suppose that we valve What you can say , degrading of these , and telling the world of our failing , We'll have our Top-Knots as long as we please , and care not a fig for your Railing . Top-Knots I tell you , we prize and adore , and therefore pray leave off this rumour ; What if we Women wear seven times more , pray who can control our humour ? Therefore a fig for what you can say , the Top-Knots we are not for hating , But are resolved to go Gallant and Gay , therefore pray leave off your pra [ tO ] ing . Here at the last , the whole truth to express , we'll have both a Top-Knot and Tower , I'm sure there was never a more aimable Dress , therefore you may frown , fret , and lower : These we will wear , although upon force , we valve not though they may grieve you ; Now I will hold you no longer Discourse , and therefore farewell , I must leave you . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The Maidens Resolution ; OR , And ANSWER to the ADVICE against TOP-KNOTS . Tune of , You Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R P. W Hat is the matter you make such ado , come tell us we now do require ? Must we young Damsels be ruled by you , concerning our Youthful Attire ? Are we not brisk and just in our prime , then what is the cause we should spare it ? Though we wear Top-Knots , I hope it's no Crime , for if we win Gold we will wear it . As for the Women of Old , which you say , might learn us a modest Behaviour ; They , I declare , was as proud in their way , as we in our flourishing Favour : Had they not Gold and other rich Stuff ? to us they were no ways inferior , She was no Woman that had not a Ruff , the which was a thousand times dearer . Dragel'd-tayled Girls , you are pleased to call the Country Damsels at pleasure , Are they not often the best of us all in London , well furnished with Treasure ? Is not the best of Citizens Wives , from Country-Cities descended ? Here they do flourish and led happy lives , then why should you Fools be offended ? E Very Damsel of Beauty so bright , you say they'll make Shipwreck of Credit , For a Top-Knot , which is all their delight , but he is a Rascal that said it : For I protest you're something too rude , since under a Scandal you laid us , Count us and call us the Billings-gate Crew , you do what you can to Degrade us . Why should not Kate the Cook-Maid have a Knot , if she has wherewith to afford it ? Is't not to Fame , pray , a far fouler blot , for Maidens like Misers to hoard it ? If in their Dress , which gallant they went , a Wealthy good Husband they Marry , Then has the Top-Knot brought perfect content , when other poor Gillians may tarry . Towers and Top-Knots , it seems you have said , we often take up by the Tally , Yet the poor Creditor seldom is paid , but do you suppose that we valve What you can say , degrading of these , and telling the world of our failing , We'll have our Top-Knots as long as we please , and care not a fig for your Railing . Top-Knots I tell you , we prize and adore , and therefore pray leave off this rumour ; What if we Women wear seven times more , pray who can control our humour ? Therefore a fig for what you can say , the Top-Knots we are not for hating , But are resolved to go Gallant and Gay , therefore pray leave off your pra [ tO ] ing . Here at the last , the whole truth to express , we'll have both a Top-Knot and Tower , I'm sure there was never a more aimable Dress , therefore you may frown , fret , and lower : These we will wear , although upon force , we valve not though they may grieve you ; Now I will hold you no longer Discourse , and therefore farewell , I must leave you . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 