And Excellent New SONG , CALLED , Fox-Hall Frolic , Showing how lusty Luky Courted a Maid in Fox-Hall , but was lately unhappily catched by his Mother in Patty is Bed , while Robby the Cobbler her Husband is on Shipboard . Tune of , The City Ramble . Licensed according to Order . THE Potter a lusty young Wooer , was formerly Sweetheart to Broom , And said that he loved none truer then Broomy in all the whole Town , With a fa la la , etc And thus he went on in deceiving the Innocent Maid of her Heart , But when he was found with Bobs leaving , he cared not for Broom of a Ft . With a fa la la , etc But now for to tell you the story , how lately it chanced to fallen , Poor Luky was catched ( to his glory ) in Patty is own Bed at Fox-Hall . With a fa la la , etc For when by the Neighbours informing , that Luky with Patty did lie , The Mother came early i'th Morning , and roused they as soon as it Day . With a fa la la , etc But Patty not knowing the matter , came down with her Coats in her hand , Says Mam , I do want a young Potter ; cries Patty , I know no such Man. With a fa la la , etc With that Lukys Mother in Passion began for to run up the stairs , But Patty cried that want the Fashion , and pushed her out of the Doors . With a fa la la , etc But coming by chance a Milkwoman , the Mother did beg her and pray S he'd call but a Constable to they , then Patty she hasted away . With a fa la la , etc And the Mother as nimble did follow , and tripped up stairs in a trice , And found this same lusty young fellow in Patty is Bed ere he could rise , With a fa la la , etc Then Rogue and Whore over and over , she called them each in their turn , Was ever such beastly young Lovers , in Hell you will certainly burn . With a fa la la , etc But Luky desired his Mother not to call the Woman a Whore , Nor make such a damnable pother , for he was her Husband he swore . With a fa la la , etc And if that she would not be civil , he'd hang , or he'd drown himself quite And Robby he'd send to the WORSER --- l , which put his poor Mam in a fright . With a fa la la , etc He said it no since he was certain , sinch Patty could take no delight With Bob who lay snoring and F --- ting , And never offered to take her byed . With a fa ca la , etc Then Patty cried prithe dear Luky don't trouble thy self at this time , My Body I freely give to thee , And wholly the same do resign . With a fall la la , etc For I did tell Robby beforehand that I was for certain with Child , Although we kiss , he shall not know oned for he is good natured and mild . With a fa la la , etc London , Printed by TO . M.An Excellent New SONG , CALLED , Fox-Hall Frolic , Showing how lusty Luky Courted a Maid in Fox-Hall , but was lately unhappily catched by his Mother in Patty is Bed , while Robby the Cobbler her Husband is on Shipboard . Tune of , The City Ramble . Licensed according to Order . THE Potter a lusty young Wooer , was formerly Sweetheart to Broom , And said that he loved none truer then Broomy in all the whole Town , With a fa la la , etc And thus he went on in deceiving the Innocent Maid of her Heart , But when he was found with Bobs leaving , he cared not for Broom of a Ft . With a fa la la , etc But now for to tell you the story , how lately it chanced to fallen , Poor Luky was catched ( to his glory ) in Patty is own Bed at Fox-Hall . With a fa la la , etc For when by the Neighbours informing , that Luky with Patty did lie , The Mother came early i'th Morning , and roused they as soon as it Day . With a fa la la , etc But Patty not knowing the matter , came down with her Coats in her hand , Says Mam , I do want a young Potter ; cries Patty , I know no such Man. With a fa la la , etc With that Lukys Mother in Passion began for to run up the stairs , But Patty cried that want the Fashion , and pushed her out of the Doors . With a fa la la , etc But coming by chance a Milkwoman , the Mother did beg her and pray S he'd call but a Constable to they , then Patty she hasted away . With a fa la la , etc And the Mother as nimble did follow , and tripped up stairs in a trice , And found this same lusty young fellow in Patty is Bed ere he could rise , With a fa la la , etc Then Rogue and Whore over and over , she called them each in their turn , Was ever such beastly young Lovers , in Hell you will certainly burn . With a fa la la , etc But Luky desired his Mother not to call the Woman a Whore , Nor make such a damnable pother , for he was her Husband he swore . With a fa la la , etc And if that she would not be civil , he'd hang , or he'd drown himself quite And Robby he'd send to the WORSER --- l , which put his poor Mam in a fright . With a fa la la , etc He said it no since he was certain , sinch Patty could take no delight With Bob who lay snoring and F --- ting , And never offered to take her byed . With a fa ca la , etc Then Patty cried prithe dear Luky don't trouble thy self at this time , My Body I freely give to thee , And wholly the same do resign . With a fall la la , etc For I did tell Robby beforehand that I was for certain with Child , Although we kiss , he shall not know oned for he is good natured and mild . With a fa la la , etc London , Printed by T.M. 