THE Captains Courtship TO A TOWN MISS . Being lately Sung in the Play , called , DONE Quixot . Captain . DEar Pickninny , If half a Guinny To Lvoe will win you lay it here down : We must be thrifty , It'll serve to shift you , And I know fifty Will do't for a Crown . Duns comes so boldly , And Money so slowly , That by all things holy It's all I can say : Yet I am so wrapped in , The Snares that i'm trapped in As i'm a true Captain , It's more than my Pay . Miss . Good Captain TO hunder , Go mind your Plunder ; Odzooks ! I wonder You dare be so bold . Thus to be making A Treaty so sneaking , Or dream of the taking My F word without Gold Other TO own Misses May gape at half Pieces ; But who me possesses A Guinny shall pay . To all poor Rogues is Buff TO hus , thus , I strut and huff ; So Captain Kick and Cuff , March on your way . Captain . Come , come , leave slighting A and take delight in One that loves Fighting , Yet you does love more . WORSER oh but once try me , You'll never more deny me , TO hen prithee lie be me Thou little damed W ---- Here my dear Honey , Near refuse Money Thou'rt brisk and bonny , And lives by thy Trade : I t's but a folly , To stand shilly shally , For i'll no more dally With thee like a Maid . Miss . A s for my Ware S ir , You must forbear Sir , And come not there Sir , Although you scold ; It's not your huffing , Nor yet your puffing , Nor kick and cuffing Shall do without Gold . I ' le not deceive you , Therefore believe me , you must now ygive me A Guinny or more . Without the yellow , You are no fellow , And if you bellow Sir , there is the WORSER oor . Printed by and for A.M. L icensed according to Order . THE Captains Courtship TO A TOWN MISS . Being lately Sung in the Play , called , DONE Quixot . Captain . DEar Pickninny , If half a Guinny To Lvoe will win you lay it here down : We must be thrifty , It'll serve to shift you , And I know fifty Will do't for a Crown . Duns comes so boldly , And Money so slowly , That by all things holy It's all I can say : Yet I am so wrapped in , The Snares that i'm trapped in As i'm a true Captain , It's more than my Pay . Miss . Good Captain TO hunder , Go mind your Plunder ; Odzooks ! I wonder You dare be so bold . Thus to be making A Treaty so sneaking , Or dream of the taking My F word without Gold Other TO own Misses May gape at half Pieces ; But who me possesses A Guinny shall pay . To all poor Rogues is Buff TO hus , thus , I strut and huff ; So Captain Kick and Cuff , March on your way . Captain . Come , come , leave slighting A and take delight in One that loves Fighting , Yet you does love more . WORSER oh but once try me , You'll never more deny me , TO hen prithee lie be me Thou little damed W ---- Here my dear Honey , Near refuse Money Thou'rt brisk and bonny , And lives by thy Trade : I t's but a folly , To stand shilly shally , For i'll no more dally With thee like a Maid . Miss . A s for my Ware S ir , You must forbear Sir , And come not there Sir , Although you scold ; It's not your huffing , Nor yet your puffing , Nor kick and cuffing Shall do without Gold . I ' le not deceive you , Therefore believe me , you must now ygive me A Guinny or more . Without the yellow , You are no fellow , And if you bellow Sir , there is the WORSER oor . Printed by and for A.M. L icensed according to Order . 