And excellent New SONG , CALLED , The Praise of Women ; OR , Wine , Women , and Music . Being a Play-House Song to a pleasant New TO une . HOw lovely's a Woman before she's enjoyed , when the Spirits are strong , & amp ; the fancy not cloyed we admire every part though never so plain , which when thoroughly possessed we quickly disdain . 2. Each Lady we court , and beg they be kind , A and when they consent for to be of our mind , We kiss and embrace and do what's to be done , When their Bellies are full we leave them forlorn 3. A ll Women we see we do hope to enjoy , We think our selves hapy if they prove not coy , Each feature we praise and admire their parts , ' Though to the next face we do proffer our hearts . 4. So drinking we love too just at the same rate , For when we are at it we foolishly prate ; What Acts we have done , and set up for wit , But next morning's pains our pleasures do quit . 5. W e drink all the morning both Coffee and TO ea , And think there is none live more sober than we , Till to dinner we move then the glass must go round , Full Bumpers of Wine till our senses are drowned . 6. TO hen about midnight we reeling home go , A and neither the W atchmen or Constable know , TO hus wine makes us valiant for when we are drunk W e draw at each man for a nasty Town Punk . 7. But M usicks a pleasure , that tires not so soon , TO is pleasant in morning , this welcome at Noon , This charming at nights to sing Catches in parts , It diverts our dull hours , & amp ; rejoices our hearts . 8. But M usick alone without W omen and W ine , Will govern but dully though never so fine ; TO herefore by consent we'll enjoy them all three , W ine & amp ; M usick for you , & amp ; the W omen for me . 9. For still of all pleasures there's none can copare , To the joys of a Woman that's charming & amp ; fair , She diverts us all day with pleasing delight , TO hen Raptures of Joy she yields all the night . London , Printed and sold by Charles Barnet . And excellent New SONG , CALLED , The Praise of Women ; OR , Wine , Women , and Music . Being a Play-House Song to a pleasant New TO une . HOw lovely's a Woman before she's enjoyed , when the Spirits are strong , & amp ; the fancy not cloyed we admire every part though never so plain , which when thoroughly possessed we quickly disdain . 2. Each Lady we court , and beg they be kind , A and when they consent for to be of our mind , We kiss and embrace and do what's to be done , When their Bellies are full we leave them forlorn 3. A ll Women we see we do hope to enjoy , We think our selves hapy if they prove not coy , Each feature we praise and admire their parts , ' Though to the next face we do proffer our hearts . 4. So drinking we love too just at the same rate , For when we are at it we foolishly prate ; What Acts we have done , and set up for wit , But next morning's pains our pleasures do quit . 5. W e drink all the morning both Coffee and TO ea , And think there is none live more sober than we , Till to dinner we move then the glass must go round , Full Bumpers of Wine till our senses are drowned . 6. TO hen about midnight we reeling home go , A and neither the W atchmen or Constable know , TO hus wine makes us valiant for when we are drunk W e draw at each man for a nasty Town Punk . 7. But M usicks a pleasure , that tires not so soon , TO is pleasant in morning , this welcome at Noon , This charming at nights to sing Catches in parts , It diverts our dull hours , & amp ; rejoices our hearts . 8. But M usick alone without W omen and W ine , Will govern but dully though never so fine ; TO herefore by consent we'll enjoy them all three , W ine & amp ; M usick for you , & amp ; the W omen for me . 9. For still of all pleasures there's none can copare , To the joys of a Woman that's charming & amp ; fair , She diverts us all day with pleasing delight , TO hen Raptures of Joy she yields all the night . London , Printed and sold by Charles Barnet . 