And Excellent New SONG , called , The Intrigues of Love : OR , One worth a Thousand . To a pleasant New Tune . HOW happy are we , when we meet with a Beauty , That is charming and free , and knows more than her Duty : Women they were made for Men , The Gods above allow the same ; But this cunning Creature Will not yield to Nature , Nor will let you do't , Unless you court her to't , And give her Gold to boot , But you , you must ever swear for to be true . But when the Guinea wins her , she's at your Devotion , She'll freely let you in Sir , and meet you in the Motion ; It's then , if you behold her Eyes , How they roll when at the Sport she lies ; First , she turns the White , And then she shuts them quite , And then with all her might , She seems her Lips to bite , And swears you're her Delight , Such Joys sure she never felt the like before . And if you have but Gold Sir , with you she'll be moving , She cares not though you're old S ir , she will be found and loving ; In Love she'll passed the time away , And ask you all the Night to stay , And for your Money's sake , She'll hang about your Neck , And give a Ki [ s ] s to please , And then your Hand she'll squeeze , And look with dying Eyes , And swear , swear she die if that you leave her there . When she's god your Treasure , and left you no Money , Then you must wait her leisure , while another she calls Honey ; She minds not all the Oaths you swear , Although you vow you love her never so dear , But he that brings the Coal , Shall have my Lady's Hold ; For Money is the cry , Fine Ringing for to buy , Or else she will deny , The Toy , Toy , the Cullies of the Town call Joy . But where's the Charming Beauty , that's constant and loyal , That loves and will be true to you , when put to the trial ; Although you'd Guineas give her down , Yet she no ways can be like the Town , For she'll be just and true , And lie with none but you , While the jilting Whore Lets you and thousands more , To do her over and over , And swears each is the Man she does adore . Printed for J. Seience in the Great Old-Baily . And Excellent New SONG , called , The Intrigues of Love : OR , One worth a Thousand . To a pleasant New Tune . HOW happy are we , when we meet with a Beauty , That is charming and free , and knows more than her Duty : Women they were made for Men , The Gods above allow the same ; But this cunning Creature Will not yield to Nature , Nor will let you do't , Unless you court her to't , And give her Gold to boot , But you , you must ever swear for to be true . But when the Guinea wins her , she's at your Devotion , She'll freely let you in Sir , and meet you in the Motion ; It's then , if you behold her Eyes , How they roll when at the Sport she lies ; First , she turns the White , And then she shuts them quite , And then with all her might , She seems her Lips to bite , And swears you're her Delight , Such Joys sure she never felt the like before . And if you have but Gold Sir , with you she'll be moving , She cares not though you're old S ir , she will be found and loving ; In Love she'll passed the time away , And ask you all the Night to stay , And for your Money's sake , She'll hang about your Neck , And give a Ki [ s ] s to please , And then your Hand she'll squeeze , And look with dying Eyes , And swear , swear she die if that you leave her there . When she's god your Treasure , and left you no Money , Then you must wait her leisure , while another she calls Honey ; She minds not all the Oaths you swear , Although you vow you love her never so dear , But he that brings the Coal , Shall have my Lady's Hold ; For Money is the cry , Fine Ringing for to buy , Or else she will deny , The Toy , Toy , the Cullies of the Town call Joy . But where's the Charming Beauty , that's constant and loyal , That loves and will be true to you , when put to the trial ; Although you'd Guineas give her down , Yet she no ways can be like the Town , For she'll be just and true , And lie with none but you , While the jilting Whore Lets you and thousands more , To do her over and over , And swears each is the Man she does adore . Printed for J. Seience in the Great Old-Baily . 