ROGER , The West-Country Lad , Set forth in his proper SHAPES , OR , THE WEST - Country Lasses Sweetheart Described , in And - swer to the Well-shaped Country L ass . To the Tune of Cavalilly Man . Licensed according to Order . High hoe , pray what shall I do ? My Sweetheart is gone I cannot tell how , He's like to Old Neck , and give him his endue , And this is my Love , do you like him hoe ? I'm sure he has god a goodly burned Face , He looks like to Cain , or one of his Raze , And a Halter would set him off with a good grace And this is my Love , do you like him ho [ e ] ? He has a fine Nose that is like to a Bottle , But it bends somewhat downwards and covers his Throttle , It's partly green coloured , & amp ; partly it's mottle , And this is my Love , etc His Teeth , like a Chequer , is all black & amp ; read , And stands very handsomely in his Calves-head Which makes me full often the thoughts of him dread , And this is my Love , etc H [ i ] s mouth it is narrow , being square a yard long His Breath it is scented , and that very strong , It smells like a Turd when you stir in it long , And this is my Love , etc The Hair of his Head its colour is read , But it looks very grey having Nits in his Head , And where there is Nits there is Lice it is said , And this is my Love , etc I spies him by chance the last Wednesday Morn , A Combing his Hair with a Comb made of Horn And I think such a lousy Rogue never was born And this is my Love , etc His Throat it is like the Ditch near to the Fleet , But it is not so handsome , nor scarce so sweet , And I'm sure he can swallow a Bushel of Wheat , And this is my Love , etc His Body is Crooked more every day , And his Legs they are both often turned the wrong way , Which makes him look wonderful handsome and gay , And this is my Love , etc His Legs are small as the Post of a Mill , I think it is true , believe it who will , But his Arse I am sure a great Cauldron will fill , And this is my Love , etc Last night in a nasty old Bed he Pigged in , His Feet in his Mouth all beshit to his Skin , He looked like a Monster and fiercely did Grin , And this is my Love , etc And now my good Neighbours I swear by my faith I'm afraid that some of you will steal him away But I hope you'll return him again the next day If you like not my dearest Love high ho , Printed for James Gilbertson , and G. Conyers . ROGER , The West-Country Lad , Set forth in his proper SHAPES , OR , THE WEST - Country Lasses Sweetheart Described , in And - swer to the Well-shaped Country L ass . To the Tune of Cavalilly Man . Licensed according to Order . High hoe , pray what shall I do ? My Sweetheart is gone I cannot tell how , He's like to Old Neck , and give him his endue , And this is my Love , do you like him hoe ? I'm sure he has god a goodly burned Face , He looks like to Cain , or one of his Raze , And a Halter would set him off with a good grace And this is my Love , do you like him ho [ e ] ? He has a fine Nose that is like to a Bottle , But it bends somewhat downwards and covers his Throttle , It's partly green coloured , & amp ; partly it's mottle , And this is my Love , etc His Teeth , like a Chequer , is all black & amp ; read , And stands very handsomely in his Calves-head Which makes me full often the thoughts of him dread , And this is my Love , etc H [ i ] s mouth it is narrow , being square a yard long His Breath it is scented , and that very strong , It smells like a Turd when you stir in it long , And this is my Love , etc The Hair of his Head its colour is read , But it looks very grey having Nits in his Head , And where there is Nits there is Lice it is said , And this is my Love , etc I spies him by chance the last Wednesday Morn , A Combing his Hair with a Comb made of Horn And I think such a lousy Rogue never was born And this is my Love , etc His Throat it is like the Ditch near to the Fleet , But it is not so handsome , nor scarce so sweet , And I'm sure he can swallow a Bushel of Wheat , And this is my Love , etc His Body is Crooked more every day , And his Legs they are both often turned the wrong way , Which makes him look wonderful handsome and gay , And this is my Love , etc His Legs are small as the Post of a Mill , I think it is true , believe it who will , But his Arse I am sure a great Cauldron will fill , And this is my Love , etc Last night in a nasty old Bed he Pigged in , His Feet in his Mouth all beshit to his Skin , He looked like a Monster and fiercely did Grin , And this is my Love , etc And now my good Neighbours I swear by my faith I'm afraid that some of you will steal him away But I hope you'll return him again the next day If you like not my dearest Love high ho , Printed for James Gilbertson , and G. Conyers . 