And Excellent New Play-House Song , Called , The Bonny Milk-Maid . you Nymph's and Sylvian Gods , That love green Fields and woods , when Spring newly blown , her self does adorn With Flowers and blooming Buds come sing in the praise , while Flocks do graze In yonder pleasant Vale , of those that choose their sleep to loose , and in cold Dews , with clouted shoes , Do carry the Milking Pail . The Goddess of the morn With blushes they adorn , and take the fresh Air , while Linnets prepare A Consort on each green thorn : the Blackbird and TO hrush on every bush , And the charming Nightingale , in merry vain their throats do strain , go entertain the jolly train TO hat carry the Milking Pail . When cold bleak Winds do roar , And Flowers can spring no more , the Fields that were seen so pleasant and green , By Winter all Candid over , o how the town Lass looks with her white face , And her lips of deadly pale , but it is not so with those that go through Frost and Snow , with cheeks that glow , TO oh carry the Milking Pail . TO he Miss of Courtly mould , Adorned with Pearl and Gold , with washes and paint , her skin does so taint , She's weathered before she's old , while she in Commode puts on a Cartload , And with Cushions plumps her tail , what joys are found in Russet Gown , young , plump and round , and sweet and found , TO hat carry the Milking Pail . TO he Girls of Venus Game TO hat ventures health and fame , in practicing feats with Colds and with Heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame , if men were so wise to valve the prize Of the Wares most fit for Sale , what store of Beaus would daub their clothes , to save a Nose , by following those That carry the Milking Pail . The Country Lad is free From Fears and Jealousy , when upon the green he is often seen With his Lass upon his Knee , with kisses most sweet he does her so treat , And swears she'll never grow stale , while the London Lass , in every place , with her brazen Face , despises the Grace Of those with the Milking Pail . Printed for Charles Barnet . And Excellent New Play-House Song , Called , The Bonny Milk-Maid . you Nymph's and Sylvian Gods , That love green Fields and woods , when Spring newly blown , her self does adorn With Flowers and blooming Buds come sing in the praise , while Flocks do graze In yonder pleasant Vale , of those that choose their sleep to loose , and in cold Dews , with clouted shoes , Do carry the Milking Pail . The Goddess of the morn With blushes they adorn , and take the fresh Air , while Linnets prepare A Consort on each green thorn : the Blackbird and TO hrush on every bush , And the charming Nightingale , in merry vain their throats do strain , go entertain the jolly train TO hat carry the Milking Pail . When cold bleak Winds do roar , And Flowers can spring no more , the Fields that were seen so pleasant and green , By Winter all Candid over , o how the town Lass looks with her white face , And her lips of deadly pale , but it is not so with those that go through Frost and Snow , with cheeks that glow , TO oh carry the Milking Pail . TO he Miss of Courtly mould , Adorned with Pearl and Gold , with washes and paint , her skin does so taint , She's weathered before she's old , while she in Commode puts on a Cartload , And with Cushions plumps her tail , what joys are found in Russet Gown , young , plump and round , and sweet and found , TO hat carry the Milking Pail . TO he Girls of Venus Game TO hat ventures health and fame , in practicing feats with Colds and with Heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame , if men were so wise to valve the prize Of the Wares most fit for Sale , what store of Beaus would daub their clothes , to save a Nose , by following those That carry the Milking Pail . The Country Lad is free From Fears and Jealousy , when upon the green he is often seen With his Lass upon his Knee , with kisses most sweet he does her so treat , And swears she'll never grow stale , while the London Lass , in every place , with her brazen Face , despises the Grace Of those with the Milking Pail . Printed for Charles Barnet . 