THE Young men Resolution To call to CUPID to send his Arrows to his best BELOVED . To the Tune of , When Kings are called to give Account what their Expenses be . YOung Chorydon a stubbern Heart , No Beauty him could move ; Would smile to hear of Cupid is Darts , And scorn the Thoughts of Love ; Till Phillis , came with Charming Eyes , His Heart for to Invey , And Conquering then , aloud did Cry , I now Aversion Nay . He Viewed her well , which wone his Heart , And Cried , I am now undone , Come Cupid ease my deadly smart , Or else my Thrid is spun ; My Life a Burden sure will prove , Unless you ease my Pain , For I am compelled now to Love , Which once I did Disdain . He Sighed and Sighed , and still complained , That he could not Endure , Though stings of Love which he sustained , But must look out for Cure : Oh! whither shall I fly , said he , To find one Hour of Rest , Alas ! Alas ! that may not be , I am too much Oppressed . Never despise the God of Love , Whose Powers I cannot relate , Nor well express , who can remove My Cruel Raged Fate : For in my Pain such Ease I find , Which Tickleth my Desire , Although my Thoughts are now confined , No Freedom I Require . You that are Free , take my Advice , Disdain not Cupid is Power , You little think , that in a Trice , He can your Joys Devour : For , I poor Happiless Chorydon , Was in a Moment lost , When my Disdains I think upon , Me thinks I am strangely Crossed . These Links of Love are pleasant Chains , Which please the Fettered Man , And when he of his Grief complains , His Pleasures then began : O Cupid ! gentle Cupid ! now , Let me no more be free , For unto Thee I have made a Vow , Which may not broken be . Let Phillis feel a little touch Of thy Tormenting Bow , Or else poor I shall feel too much , Oh! let it not be so : But let her Pains be much like mine , Then I'll Applaud thy Name , Although she counts me as now Divine , My Passion do not blame . FINIS . London , Printed for , and Sold by J. Wilkins in White-Fryars , 1689. THE Young men Resolution To call to CUPID to send his Arrows to his best BELOVED . To the Tune of , When Kings are called to give Account what their Expenses be . YOung Chorydon a stubbern Heart , No Beauty him could move ; Would smile to hear of Cupid is Darts , And scorn the Thoughts of Love ; Till Phillis , came with Charming Eyes , His Heart for to Invey , And Conquering then , aloud did Cry , I now Aversion Nay . He Viewed her well , which wone his Heart , And Cried , I am now undone , Come Cupid ease my deadly smart , Or else my Thrid is spun ; My Life a Burden sure will prove , Unless you ease my Pain , For I am compelled now to Love , Which once I did Disdain . He Sighed and Sighed , and still complained , That he could not Endure , Though stings of Love which he sustained , But must look out for Cure : Oh! whither shall I fly , said he , To find one Hour of Rest , Alas ! Alas ! that may not be , I am too much Oppressed . Never despise the God of Love , Whose Powers I cannot relate , Nor well express , who can remove My Cruel Raged Fate : For in my Pain such Ease I find , Which Tickleth my Desire , Although my Thoughts are now confined , No Freedom I Require . You that are Free , take my Advice , Disdain not Cupid is Power , You little think , that in a Trice , He can your Joys Devour : For , I poor Happiless Chorydon , Was in a Moment lost , When my Disdains I think upon , Me thinks I am strangely Crossed . These Links of Love are pleasant Chains , Which please the Fettered Man , And when he of his Grief complains , His Pleasures then began : O Cupid ! gentle Cupid ! now , Let me no more be free , For unto Thee I have made a Vow , Which may not broken be . Let Phillis feel a little touch Of thy Tormenting Bow , Or else poor I shall feel too much , Oh! let it not be so : But let her Pains be much like mine , Then I'll Applaud thy Name , Although she counts me as now Divine , My Passion do not blame . FINIS . London , Printed for , and Sold by J. Wilkins in White-Fryars , 1689. 