The Passionate LOVER ; OR , The Damosel ' s Grief , Crowned with Comforts . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune , much in Request ; This may be Printed , R.P. Maid . SIghs and groans and melancholy moans , I languish and anguish in doleful tones , For him I loved dear , I do complain , Because his Company I can't obtain . Man. Sighs and groans you say you are oppressed , You say I am he whom you loved best , But if it be so and your heart be true , Then I will bear a part as well as you . Maid . Men are deceitful who can them believe Their flattering words , they Maids deceive : With their ruby Lips and their tempting eye , They terrify poor Maidens till they die . What cares he that never felt the smart , Of this my languishing lovesick heart , Had you a sense of what I do endure , Then you in Love would grant a speedy cure , This pale Death that now must give me ease , For there is nothing else my heart can please , Then on my Tomb , alas ! it shall be read , That here lies a Loyal Lover dead . Man. Thou hast no cause my dearest to complain , For as I am thy Love I will remain , To but believe me thou shalt be my Bride , For I valve none in the World beside . None but thee , my love I adore , Thy Blessings dearest here I will restore , Dry up thy tears and take this tender kiss , Being in token of a true Loves bliss . Maid . Was I sure that these thy words were true , Then might I bid my sorrows quite adieu , Yet I have known Men say as much as this , And then have left their lovers in distress . For when they have brought us to their bow , They then do prove our final overthrow , True hearted Men I find there is but few , Nay , I may say the very same by you . None but I , you say you do adore , Have you not said as much as this before , When you declared that I should be your wife , And yet you left me near bereaved of Life . Man. When I left my Love , it was to try Thy pure affections , and thy constancy , I know when Cupid does Mens hearts invade , Females have often times the Tyrant played , But I find my Love is none of those , Therefore my heart to thee I will disclose , Thy Loyalty my purest Love hath wone , It's none I prize but thee beneath the Sun. We'll never part while I remain alive , Then let thy drooping Spirits now revive , The very mountains shall as soon remove , As I found disloyal to my love . Now when he had uttered forth his mind , There was no grief , but both to love inclined Where he embraced her in his tender arms , With many sweet salutes and pleasing charms . Thus was tears strait turned into joy , There's nothing can their comforts now annoy , By solemn vows their hearts are linked fast , To live in Love , as long as life shall last . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy near the Draw-Bridge on London-Bridge . The Passionate LOVER ; OR , The Damosel ' s Grief , Crowned with Comforts . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune , much in Request ; This may be Printed , R.P. Maid . SIghs and groans and melancholy moans , I languish and anguish in doleful tones , For him I loved dear , I do complain , Because his Company I can't obtain . Man. Sighs and groans you say you are oppressed , You say I am he whom you loved best , But if it be so and your heart be true , Then I will bear a part as well as you . Maid . Men are deceitful who can them believe Their flattering words , they Maids deceive : With their ruby Lips and their tempting eye , They terrify poor Maidens till they die . What cares he that never felt the smart , Of this my languishing lovesick heart , Had you a sense of what I do endure , Then you in Love would grant a speedy cure , This pale Death that now must give me ease , For there is nothing else my heart can please , Then on my Tomb , alas ! it shall be read , That here lies a Loyal Lover dead . Man. Thou hast no cause my dearest to complain , For as I am thy Love I will remain , To but believe me thou shalt be my Bride , For I valve none in the World beside . None but thee , my love I adore , Thy Blessings dearest here I will restore , Dry up thy tears and take this tender kiss , Being in token of a true Loves bliss . Maid . Was I sure that these thy words were true , Then might I bid my sorrows quite adieu , Yet I have known Men say as much as this , And then have left their lovers in distress . For when they have brought us to their bow , They then do prove our final overthrow , True hearted Men I find there is but few , Nay , I may say the very same by you . None but I , you say you do adore , Have you not said as much as this before , When you declared that I should be your wife , And yet you left me near bereaved of Life . Man. When I left my Love , it was to try Thy pure affections , and thy constancy , I know when Cupid does Mens hearts invade , Females have often times the Tyrant played , But I find my Love is none of those , Therefore my heart to thee I will disclose , Thy Loyalty my purest Love hath wone , It's none I prize but thee beneath the Sun. We'll never part while I remain alive , Then let thy drooping Spirits now revive , The very mountains shall as soon remove , As I found disloyal to my love . Now when he had uttered forth his mind , There was no grief , but both to love inclined Where he embraced her in his tender arms , With many sweet salutes and pleasing charms . Thus was tears strait turned into joy , There's nothing can their comforts now annoy , By solemn vows their hearts are linked fast , To live in Love , as long as life shall last . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy near the Draw-Bridge on London-Bridge . 