THE Contented Lovers ; OR , Dioclesions WISH Obtained Who for the Love of Fair Drusilla forsook his Royalty . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune , Sung at the OPERA . 1. STill I'm wishing , still desiring , Still she's giving , I requiring , Yet each Gift I think too small , Still the more I am presented , Still the less I am contented , Though she vows she's given me all . 2. Can Drusilla give no more , Has she lavished all her store , Must my hope's to nothing fallen , Ah! you know not half your Treasure , Give me more , give over measure , Yet you'll never give me all . 3. Still your Love I do require , It is that I do desire , What you give me is too small , That I cannot be contented , Till that I am more presented , For you have not given me all . 4. Fair Drusilla is a Blessing , I could ever be possessing , You can never give in vain , Then bestow on me your Treasure , You can never give over Measure , Nor can I [ tO ] oo much obtain . 5. Dioclesion I admire , What it is you do desire , You have Riffled all my store , Then Diocles be contented , I to thee have all presented , What can you desire more . 6. I at first my heart did give you , Yet soon after you did leave me , When you did to Glory rise , You Aurelia did admire , And for her had such desire , That you did my Love despise . 7. Then of joy you did bereave me , Yet Diocles I forgive you , Let me then my Wish obtain , That you never more will Waver , For my heart is thine for ever , Then Diocles don't complain . 8. Oh! you Powers Divine and Loving , Let our Love be still improving , Make Diocles ever mine , For to him I've all presented , Make him then to be contented , And no longer to repine . 9. I will love , and still adore you , And forsake all Earthly Glory , Let us then to Shades retire , Where we'll love and live together , And in death we will not sever , But at once will both expire . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-field . THE Contented Lovers ; OR , Dioclesions WISH Obtained Who for the Love of Fair Drusilla forsook his Royalty . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune , Sung at the OPERA . 1. STill I'm wishing , still desiring , Still she's giving , I requiring , Yet each Gift I think too small , Still the more I am presented , Still the less I am contented , Though she vows she's given me all . 2. Can Drusilla give no more , Has she lavished all her store , Must my hope's to nothing fallen , Ah! you know not half your Treasure , Give me more , give over measure , Yet you'll never give me all . 3. Still your Love I do require , It is that I do desire , What you give me is too small , That I cannot be contented , Till that I am more presented , For you have not given me all . 4. Fair Drusilla is a Blessing , I could ever be possessing , You can never give in vain , Then bestow on me your Treasure , You can never give over Measure , Nor can I [ tO ] oo much obtain . 5. Dioclesion I admire , What it is you do desire , You have Riffled all my store , Then Diocles be contented , I to thee have all presented , What can you desire more . 6. I at first my heart did give you , Yet soon after you did leave me , When you did to Glory rise , You Aurelia did admire , And for her had such desire , That you did my Love despise . 7. Then of joy you did bereave me , Yet Diocles I forgive you , Let me then my Wish obtain , That you never more will Waver , For my heart is thine for ever , Then Diocles don't complain . 8. Oh! you Powers Divine and Loving , Let our Love be still improving , Make Diocles ever mine , For to him I've all presented , Make him then to be contented , And no longer to repine . 9. I will love , and still adore you , And forsake all Earthly Glory , Let us then to Shades retire , Where we'll love and live together , And in death we will not sever , But at once will both expire . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-field . 