MARAGE Forgotten , Or the Condescending SHEPHERDESS . Tune of , I often with my Jemmy strove , etc With Allowance . I . AS I was waliking over a Plain , I met a Lovely Comely Swain , He cast his Manly looks on me , And cried , faith Nymph , I must love thee ; Replied unto the Shepherd , Welcome is thy Love to me , I willing am to Wed thee , Bed thee , For I'll Marry none but thee . II With that he huged me in his Arms , And seemed to Dote upon my Charms ; He Kissed and pressed my Cheeks and Breast , And all Loves kindest vows professed ; [ I ] with melting looks was grateful , Vowing still that only he Should welcome be , to Wed me , Bed me , If to Marry he'd Agree . III . With hand in hand along we past , Kind looks we on each other cast ; He Enveyed was by every Swain Who Piping sat upon the Plain : Each sweet look , or word I gave him , Mingled with a Kiss must be , Vowing he'd surely Wed me , Bed me , And love none but only me . IV. At last into a Grove we came , His Love had set me in a flame ; We set beneath a shady Tree , No Lover ever more blessed then we : His hand was pressing towards my Garter , Begging leave he might be free , Vowing he'd surely Wed me , Bed me , If I'de let him touch my Knee . V. Could ever a Bonny Lass Believe , He would so kind a Maid Deceive ; Sweet Melting words he gently used , But yet at last his Love abused : I inflamed with such Affection , He such Speeches used to me , Vowing he'd surely Wed me , Bed me , And desired no Love but me . VI . Like Lambs we thus began to play , And pass Loves pleasing hours away ; His Words and Kisses were so sweet , His Looks , and Features so complete , That each bold Attempt he offered , Kindly was Embraced by me ; He Vowing still to Wed me , Bed me , And pursue no Lass but me . VII . We Kissed and Toyed , until at last , The thoughts of Wedding quite were passed ; No fears could our desires Remove , Of satisfying our present Love : His kind words were so prevailing , That he bent me to his Bow ; I asked him then to Wed me , Bed me , But he Answered No , no , no . VIII . I quickly after proved with Bairn , None knows how great was my Concern ; He broke the Vow so oft professed , And all the kindness he Expressed : Wretched now is my Condition , For I n're shall Married be ; There's none will ever Wed me , Bed me , How unkind a Wretch was he . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by J.W. in White-Fryars , 1689. MARAGE Forgotten , Or the Condescending SHEPHERDESS . Tune of , I often with my Jemmy strove , etc With Allowance . I . AS I was waliking over a Plain , I met a Lovely Comely Swain , He cast his Manly looks on me , And cried , faith Nymph , I must love thee ; Replied unto the Shepherd , Welcome is thy Love to me , I willing am to Wed thee , Bed thee , For I'll Marry none but thee . II With that he huged me in his Arms , And seemed to Dote upon my Charms ; He Kissed and pressed my Cheeks and Breast , And all Loves kindest vows professed ; [ I ] with melting looks was grateful , Vowing still that only he Should welcome be , to Wed me , Bed me , If to Marry he'd Agree . III . With hand in hand along we past , Kind looks we on each other cast ; He Enveyed was by every Swain Who Piping sat upon the Plain : Each sweet look , or word I gave him , Mingled with a Kiss must be , Vowing he'd surely Wed me , Bed me , And love none but only me . IV. At last into a Grove we came , His Love had set me in a flame ; We set beneath a shady Tree , No Lover ever more blessed then we : His hand was pressing towards my Garter , Begging leave he might be free , Vowing he'd surely Wed me , Bed me , If I'de let him touch my Knee . V. Could ever a Bonny Lass Believe , He would so kind a Maid Deceive ; Sweet Melting words he gently used , But yet at last his Love abused : I inflamed with such Affection , He such Speeches used to me , Vowing he'd surely Wed me , Bed me , And desired no Love but me . VI . Like Lambs we thus began to play , And pass Loves pleasing hours away ; His Words and Kisses were so sweet , His Looks , and Features so complete , That each bold Attempt he offered , Kindly was Embraced by me ; He Vowing still to Wed me , Bed me , And pursue no Lass but me . VII . We Kissed and Toyed , until at last , The thoughts of Wedding quite were passed ; No fears could our desires Remove , Of satisfying our present Love : His kind words were so prevailing , That he bent me to his Bow ; I asked him then to Wed me , Bed me , But he Answered No , no , no . VIII . I quickly after proved with Bairn , None knows how great was my Concern ; He broke the Vow so oft professed , And all the kindness he Expressed : Wretched now is my Condition , For I n're shall Married be ; There's none will ever Wed me , Bed me , How unkind a Wretch was he . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by J.W. in White-Fryars , 1689. 