THE Maidens WISH Procured : Or , Silvia is Pain Eased by Cupid . To and Excellent New Air . This may be Printed , R. P . I. S Ilvia the Fair , in the Bloom of Fifteen , Felt and Innocent warmth as she lay on the Green ; She had herd of a Pleasure , and something she guest , By their tumbling , and touzing , & amp ; touching her Breast , She saw the Men eager , but was at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their Praying and Whining , and Clasping and Twining , And Panting , and Wishing , and Sighing , and Kissing , and Sighing , and Kissing so close . II Ah! she cried Ah! that a Languishing Maid , In a Kingdom of Christians , should die without Aid ! Not a gentle fair Lover to yield to my Charms , To take me and kiss me within his soft Arms ; To instruct a young Virgin that is at a loss , What they mean by their Sighing and Kissing so close By their Praying , etc III . Cupid in shape of a Swain did appear , He herd the fair Nymph , and he kindly drew near ; He showed her his Arrow , and bid her not fear , For the Pain was no more then a Maiden might bear ; Which when he had tried , she was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their Praying , etc IV. Silvia at first seemed a little afraid , But the gentle sweet Boy did persuade the fair Maid ; A thousand soft melting sweet Kisses he pressed Upon her soft Lips , and her panting white Breast , Until she did yield , and was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their Praying and Whining , and Clasping and Twining , And Panting , and Wishing , and Sighing , and Kissing , and Sighing , and Kissing so close . V. Thus the fair nymph with sweet pleasure was Crowned , She Sighed and she blushed when she felt the soft wound She Died in the tender soft Arms of the Swain , But a Balmy sweet Kiss soon restored her again : Restored her so well , she was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their Praying and Whining , and Clasping and Twining , And panting , and Wishing , and Sighing , and Kissing , and Sighing , and Kissing so close . VI . Cupid is Young , and no Beauty can harm , He kindles sweet Fires , and gently does Warm , Does Cour [ tO ] Maids to yield to what they were designed For always fair Virgins to Men should be kind ; So kind , that they never need be at a loss , What Men mean by their sighing and kissing so close , By their praying , etc VII . Tenderly these in Embraces did meet , The Nymph was Divine , & amp ; the Swain young & amp ; sweet , Those pleasures he gave , she did double requite , And all their sweet Joys were as silent as Night ; But in the fair Morn she was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their praying , etc VIII . Silvia at last thus enjoyed her desire , Enjoyed those Delights that young Maidens admire : And Cupid a while from his Mistress did part , But left with this Beauty his wounded soft heart : But when he was gone , she was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their praying and whining , and Clasping and Twining , And panting , and Wishing , and Sighing , and Kissing , and Sighing , and Kissing so close . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge , 1689. THE Maidens WISH Procured : Or , Silvia is Pain Eased by Cupid . To and Excellent New Air . This may be Printed , R. P . I. S Ilvia the Fair , in the Bloom of Fifteen , Felt and Innocent warmth as she lay on the Green ; She had herd of a Pleasure , and something she guest , By their tumbling , and touzing , & amp ; touching her Breast , She saw the Men eager , but was at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their Praying and Whining , and Clasping and Twining , And Panting , and Wishing , and Sighing , and Kissing , and Sighing , and Kissing so close . II Ah! she cried Ah! that a Languishing Maid , In a Kingdom of Christians , should die without Aid ! Not a gentle fair Lover to yield to my Charms , To take me and kiss me within his soft Arms ; To instruct a young Virgin that is at a loss , What they mean by their Sighing and Kissing so close By their Praying , etc III . Cupid in shape of a Swain did appear , He herd the fair Nymph , and he kindly drew near ; He showed her his Arrow , and bid her not fear , For the Pain was no more then a Maiden might bear ; Which when he had tried , she was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their Praying , etc IV. Silvia at first seemed a little afraid , But the gentle sweet Boy did persuade the fair Maid ; A thousand soft melting sweet Kisses he pressed Upon her soft Lips , and her panting white Breast , Until she did yield , and was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their Praying and Whining , and Clasping and Twining , And Panting , and Wishing , and Sighing , and Kissing , and Sighing , and Kissing so close . V. Thus the fair nymph with sweet pleasure was Crowned , She Sighed and she blushed when she felt the soft wound She Died in the tender soft Arms of the Swain , But a Balmy sweet Kiss soon restored her again : Restored her so well , she was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their Praying and Whining , and Clasping and Twining , And panting , and Wishing , and Sighing , and Kissing , and Sighing , and Kissing so close . VI . Cupid is Young , and no Beauty can harm , He kindles sweet Fires , and gently does Warm , Does Cour [ tO ] Maids to yield to what they were designed For always fair Virgins to Men should be kind ; So kind , that they never need be at a loss , What Men mean by their sighing and kissing so close , By their praying , etc VII . Tenderly these in Embraces did meet , The Nymph was Divine , & amp ; the Swain young & amp ; sweet , Those pleasures he gave , she did double requite , And all their sweet Joys were as silent as Night ; But in the fair Morn she was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their praying , etc VIII . Silvia at last thus enjoyed her desire , Enjoyed those Delights that young Maidens admire : And Cupid a while from his Mistress did part , But left with this Beauty his wounded soft heart : But when he was gone , she was not at a loss , What they meant by their sighing and kissing so close , By their praying and whining , and Clasping and Twining , And panting , and Wishing , and Sighing , and Kissing , and Sighing , and Kissing so close . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge , 1689. 