THE Beautiful Barkeshire Damsel That was Courted by a Gallant Young Squire ; Giving and Account how he deluded her into the Fields , thinking there by Force , to have obtained his Will . Showing likewise how she overcame him , and stuck him to the Ground with his own Sword , etc . Tune of , All happy Times , etc Licensed according to Order . TO H ere was a Damsel young and fair , that lived lately in Barkeshire , Within three Miles of Reding Town , whose Beauty boar a great Renown . In Service there now lived she with a Justice there of high Degree , So sweet she did herself behave , that oft great Praise to her he gave : A and many a Gallant thither came , they hearing of this Virgins F ame ; But when that they once did her see , none of their hearts from love were free They Wooed and Sued her every Day , thinking her Heart for to betray , With costly Presents which they made ; but none this Damsel could invade . At length there came a gallant Squire , that had Five Thousand Pounds a Year ; He swore that all to her he'd give , if she would yield with him to live . But all his Proffers were in vain ; this Damsel showed him great Disdain . The greatest Lord that are was born , to be his Whore ( quoth she ) I scorn . But now at length they did agree , abroad to go most lovingly : The Damsel thinking little harm , while Envy in his Breast lay warm . Well now , quoth he , it is in vain , for you to show your great Disdain ; Thy Beauty great my H eart does kill , till I obtain of thee my Will . Which Bliss if you to me will grant , no chostly Riches you shall want ; If not , by force I will thee make , and then thy L ife will from thee take . Then straight she fell down on her Knee , and weeping cried , Sir pity me : Before i'll yield i'll lose my Life , until you make of me your Wife . Then in his Arms he took this Maid , and on the Ground , by force , her laid , And often strove to have his Will , but yet it was beyond his Skill . She striving long , at length god free , then catched his Sword immediately , And stuck him fast unto the Ground , which proved a sad and grievious Wound Then trembling soar , she home did speed , and told her Master of the Deed , TO hen crying said against my Will , the Gallant Squire I did Kill . TO hen Men he sent , who fetced him home , & amp ; Surgeons straight did dress his wound , Who in small time these tidings gave , that they did hope his L ife to save . Quoth he , If God do save my Life , that Damsel fair shall be my Wife , Who gave this Wound and Cruel smart , for why , I love her at my Heart . Then to the Surgeon straight he said , Oh! let me see that Virtuous Maid ; Without her sighed I cannot be , it's she alone can cure me . Printed for Charles Barnet . THE Beautiful Barkeshire Damsel That was Courted by a Gallant Young Squire ; Giving and Account how he deluded her into the Fields , thinking there by Force , to have obtained his Will . Showing likewise how she overcame him , and stuck him to the Ground with his own Sword , etc . Tune of , All happy Times , etc Licensed according to Order . TO H ere was a Damsel young and fair , that lived lately in Barkeshire , Within three Miles of Reding Town , whose Beauty boar a great Renown . In Service there now lived she with a Justice there of high Degree , So sweet she did herself behave , that oft great Praise to her he gave : A and many a Gallant thither came , they hearing of this Virgins F ame ; But when that they once did her see , none of their hearts from love were free They Wooed and Sued her every Day , thinking her Heart for to betray , With costly Presents which they made ; but none this Damsel could invade . At length there came a gallant Squire , that had Five Thousand Pounds a Year ; He swore that all to her he'd give , if she would yield with him to live . But all his Proffers were in vain ; this Damsel showed him great Disdain . The greatest Lord that are was born , to be his Whore ( quoth she ) I scorn . But now at length they did agree , abroad to go most lovingly : The Damsel thinking little harm , while Envy in his Breast lay warm . Well now , quoth he , it is in vain , for you to show your great Disdain ; Thy Beauty great my H eart does kill , till I obtain of thee my Will . Which Bliss if you to me will grant , no chostly Riches you shall want ; If not , by force I will thee make , and then thy L ife will from thee take . Then straight she fell down on her Knee , and weeping cried , Sir pity me : Before i'll yield i'll lose my Life , until you make of me your Wife . Then in his Arms he took this Maid , and on the Ground , by force , her laid , And often strove to have his Will , but yet it was beyond his Skill . She striving long , at length god free , then catched his Sword immediately , And stuck him fast unto the Ground , which proved a sad and grievious Wound Then trembling soar , she home did speed , and told her Master of the Deed , TO hen crying said against my Will , the Gallant Squire I did Kill . TO hen Men he sent , who fetced him home , & amp ; Surgeons straight did dress his wound , Who in small time these tidings gave , that they did hope his L ife to save . Quoth he , If God do save my Life , that Damsel fair shall be my Wife , Who gave this Wound and Cruel smart , for why , I love her at my Heart . Then to the Surgeon straight he said , Oh! let me see that Virtuous Maid ; Without her sighed I cannot be , it's she alone can cure me . Printed for Charles Barnet . 