LOVE and HONOUR . A Pindaric Ballad . In Two PARTS . To the Tune of , Luxemburg is March . With Allowance . PART the First . Moggy Endeavours to dissuade her Jockey from going to the Wars . I . THus I , inconstant Jockey , Fast in my Arms I lock you , Never to see the Wars again ; Nor hear the bugle sounding Trumpet : Here I'm for ever grasp you , And to my bosom clasp you , Where you shall still with me remain , Though dub a dub a dub the drum beatrice : Here , in the shades , we'll sport and play , Kiss all the Night , laugh all the day , What have you to do ( my Love ) With Germany , or Spain ? What a De'el will you ( my Love ) By either of they gain ? Would you truly show your Love ? At home remain With your Moggy . II Why will you leave your Chattels , Plunder to get in Battles ? Have you not here a new milch Cow , With many a tender lamb , and sheep too ? Sure there a mighty charm is Always in following Armies , Thus for to leave , the Lord knows who ! Your Flocks , and her that does they keep too . Hark! how the whirring bullets fly ! Hark! how they groan ! & amp ; how they die ! Lay this Warlike fury by , Dear Jockey , I thee beg ; I shall never endure you , If you get a Wooden Leg , May the De'el even cure you , For Mistress Peg , Good Jockey . PART the Second . Jockey shows his steady , and truly Loyal Reso - lution , of Serving his most Gracious Majesty K. W . against the French . I . M oggy Udsbred what mean you ? Surely the De'el is in you , Thus to control the Martial rage , That calls your Jockey forth to Combat : Must I live like a L one here , Rather than purchase honour ( While I the Monsieur Foe engage ) Where dub a dub a dub the Drum beatrice ? Moggy , d'ye think I se stay at home ? Lewis is worse than the Pope of Rome : I must have to do ( my Love ) With Germany , and Spain ; I them unworthy you ( my Love ) I f I at home remain : But , I tell you true , ( my Love ) I'm come again To my Moggy . II Let me gang , out of Scotland , Into some far remote land ; What should I do with one poor Cow And sheep ( I think ) about a dozen ? Under the good King William I see meet the French , and kill they ; So shall I Cattle get enough , By dint muckle might a thousand : Hark! how the Silver Trumpets found See how the French gasp on the ground Laird ! how fearful Women is ! Take courage Prithee Peg ; I n a battle no Man is Afraid of Wooden Leg ; I'm be , what uncommon is , A Scanderbeg For my Moggy Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . LOVE and HONOUR . A Pindaric Ballad . In Two PARTS . To the Tune of , Luxemburg is March . With Allowance . PART the First . Moggy Endeavours to dissuade her Jockey from going to the Wars . I . THus I , inconstant Jockey , Fast in my Arms I lock you , Never to see the Wars again ; Nor hear the bugle sounding Trumpet : Here I'm for ever grasp you , And to my bosom clasp you , Where you shall still with me remain , Though dub a dub a dub the drum beatrice : Here , in the shades , we'll sport and play , Kiss all the Night , laugh all the day , What have you to do ( my Love ) With Germany , or Spain ? What a De'el will you ( my Love ) By either of they gain ? Would you truly show your Love ? At home remain With your Moggy . II Why will you leave your Chattels , Plunder to get in Battles ? Have you not here a new milch Cow , With many a tender lamb , and sheep too ? Sure there a mighty charm is Always in following Armies , Thus for to leave , the Lord knows who ! Your Flocks , and her that does they keep too . Hark! how the whirring bullets fly ! Hark! how they groan ! & amp ; how they die ! Lay this Warlike fury by , Dear Jockey , I thee beg ; I shall never endure you , If you get a Wooden Leg , May the De'el even cure you , For Mistress Peg , Good Jockey . PART the Second . Jockey shows his steady , and truly Loyal Reso - lution , of Serving his most Gracious Majesty K. W . against the French . I . M oggy Udsbred what mean you ? Surely the De'el is in you , Thus to control the Martial rage , That calls your Jockey forth to Combat : Must I live like a L one here , Rather than purchase honour ( While I the Monsieur Foe engage ) Where dub a dub a dub the Drum beatrice ? Moggy , d'ye think I se stay at home ? Lewis is worse than the Pope of Rome : I must have to do ( my Love ) With Germany , and Spain ; I them unworthy you ( my Love ) I f I at home remain : But , I tell you true , ( my Love ) I'm come again To my Moggy . II Let me gang , out of Scotland , Into some far remote land ; What should I do with one poor Cow And sheep ( I think ) about a dozen ? Under the good King William I see meet the French , and kill they ; So shall I Cattle get enough , By dint muckle might a thousand : Hark! how the Silver Trumpets found See how the French gasp on the ground Laird ! how fearful Women is ! Take courage Prithee Peg ; I n a battle no Man is Afraid of Wooden Leg ; I'm be , what uncommon is , A Scanderbeg For my Moggy Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 