TO : PEGGYS Kind Answer ; OR , Languishing Jemmy Crowned with Comfort . Tune of , Bonny Lad , prithee lay thy Pipe down . Licensed according to Order . I . PRithee Bonny Lad let thy Pipe play , It's pleasant to hear the delightful found , I'm am not the L ass that will say thee nay , the Valleys and Hills shall both resound With the Music which thou shalt make , And Peggy thy dearest will still be kind , No other Lad in the world I'll take , since Jemmy he Runs in my mind . 2. When ever you visit a Park or Play , where Gallants with Beautiful Saints appear , Thou shalt have thy Peggy as well as they , who ever will honour and love her Dear , Both Hand and Heart I freely give , as being , my Dear , to love inclined , While I have and hour or Day to live , sweet Jemmy shall Run in my mind . 3. Young Sawny and Willy , I'm ever slight , their proffered kindness I still disdain , But thou in my bosom shall melt all night , who art my dear Loving and Loyal swain , So sweet a Lad was never known , to P eggy thy L ove thou wast ever kind , So that when I languishing lie alone , sweet Jemmy still Runs in my mind . 4. Though I have been banished from the a while , which did my dear J emmy with grief annoy , Yet fortune was pleased to send a smile , and I am returned again with joy , No High-Land Lad of Mucckle Fame , shall ever find Peggy to them so kind , As thee shalt my loving dear J emmy by name , who constantly Runs in my mind . 5. My WORSER addy and Mammy would have me wed a bonny blithe Lad of the Highland Raze , Who wears his broad Sword , and his gay new plad he proffer worser to give me a kind embrace , I'm bid him forbear , he's not make bold , some other Lass let him now gang to find , For I'm never Marry for Mucckle Gold , since Jemmy he Runs in my mind . How sweet was the pleasant delightful strain , which in the low Valleys thy Pipe did make , It tickled my Fancy in e'ry Vein , and think you I would my blithe L and forsake , No , no , my former Vows I'm keep , to innocent L ove I am still inclin worser , When ever I'm lie on my Pillow to sleep , Dear Jemmy he Runs in my mind . 7. The Mountains and Rocks shall as soon remove , as I prove disloyal , L ove , here's my hand , Nay , like the kind innocent Turtle Dove , I'm ever will be at my WORSER ears Command , And long to see the happy day , when we shall together in L ove be Joined , I'm never can gang to the Kirk to Pray , But Jemmy thou Runnest in my mind . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . TO : PEGGYS Kind Answer ; OR , Languishing Jemmy Crowned with Comfort . Tune of , Bonny Lad , prithee lay thy Pipe down . Licensed according to Order . I . PRithee Bonny Lad let thy Pipe play , It's pleasant to hear the delightful found , I'm am not the L ass that will say thee nay , the Valleys and Hills shall both resound With the Music which thou shalt make , And Peggy thy dearest will still be kind , No other Lad in the world I'll take , since Jemmy he Runs in my mind . 2. When ever you visit a Park or Play , where Gallants with Beautiful Saints appear , Thou shalt have thy Peggy as well as they , who ever will honour and love her Dear , Both Hand and Heart I freely give , as being , my Dear , to love inclined , While I have and hour or Day to live , sweet Jemmy shall Run in my mind . 3. Young Sawny and Willy , I'm ever slight , their proffered kindness I still disdain , But thou in my bosom shall melt all night , who art my dear Loving and Loyal swain , So sweet a Lad was never known , to P eggy thy L ove thou wast ever kind , So that when I languishing lie alone , sweet Jemmy still Runs in my mind . 4. Though I have been banished from the a while , which did my dear J emmy with grief annoy , Yet fortune was pleased to send a smile , and I am returned again with joy , No High-Land Lad of Mucckle Fame , shall ever find Peggy to them so kind , As thee shalt my loving dear J emmy by name , who constantly Runs in my mind . 5. My WORSER addy and Mammy would have me wed a bonny blithe Lad of the Highland Raze , Who wears his broad Sword , and his gay new plad he proffer worser to give me a kind embrace , I'm bid him forbear , he's not make bold , some other Lass let him now gang to find , For I'm never Marry for Mucckle Gold , since Jemmy he Runs in my mind . How sweet was the pleasant delightful strain , which in the low Valleys thy Pipe did make , It tickled my Fancy in e'ry Vein , and think you I would my blithe L and forsake , No , no , my former Vows I'm keep , to innocent L ove I am still inclin worser , When ever I'm lie on my Pillow to sleep , Dear Jemmy he Runs in my mind . 7. The Mountains and Rocks shall as soon remove , as I prove disloyal , L ove , here's my hand , Nay , like the kind innocent Turtle Dove , I'm ever will be at my WORSER ears Command , And long to see the happy day , when we shall together in L ove be Joined , I'm never can gang to the Kirk to Pray , But Jemmy thou Runnest in my mind . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 