TO : THE London Lasses Vindication : OR , THEIR Just Resentment against Country Milk maids : Showing how many of them , for their singular Virtues , have become La-dies and Mistress's of great Fortune's , by Marrying their Master's , etc To the Tune of , The Milking-pail . THe Country Damsels boast , That they are admired most , Yet nevertheless , The truth to express , Rich London shall rule the roast ; It's very well known , Kate , Bridget , and Joan , Are rusty , coarse , and brown , With loads they bear , Through scorching air ; Thus I declare , They can't compare With Lasses of London - Town . There's many a milking Lass , Is tumbled upon the grass , Both morning and night , In pleasant delight , And often it comes to pass , Their bellies do swell , Then Nancy and Nell , Poor Creatures , do look down ; With grief and woe , Their eyes do flow , At length we know , For Maids they go When ever they come to Town . When Luna is in the full , Those innocent Milkmaids will , Endeavour to make , Some willing mistake , And commonly stroke the bull ; They'll frolic and play , As well upon hay , As on soft beds of down ; They know it's true , Kate , Joan , and Prue , And smiling Sue , Will all outdo The Lasses of London - Town . They feed upon salted swine , Which makes them the more incline , To follow the sport , But we near the Court , Have delicate dishes fine , Most pleasing and sweet , Which when we have eat , We lodge on beds of down , To take our ease , Rise when we please , Such things as these , Always agrees With Lasses of London - Town . There's many a noble Knight , Has honoured a Beauty bright , And made her his own , Though wealth she had none ; Pray who has these charms of might ? No buttermilk Maid , Who follows the trade , Of kissing e'ry Clown ; But such as they , Who e'ry day , In rich array , Their plums display , Young Lasses of London - Town . What honour did ever assail The Country milking-pail ? What Spark can devote , His fancy to dote On Dorothy is dragle tail ? When beautiful charms , May lodge in his arms , Of she that cannot frown ; Not milking-pails , But sprightly Girls , That decked with pearls , For Knights and Earls , Young Lasses of Lodon - Town . Among many Girls of fame , Young beautiful Nan by name , Who being well breed , Her Master did wed , And now she's a stately Dame : What Country Kate Was ever so great , That trudges up and down ? It's beauty bright , That does invite , Duke , Lord , or Knight , To the delight - Full Lasses of London - Town . Licensed and Entered according to Order London : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . TO : THE London Lasses Vindication : OR , THEIR Just Resentment against Country Milk maids : Showing how many of them , for their singular Virtues , have become La-dies and Mistress's of great Fortune's , by Marrying their Master's , etc To the Tune of , The Milking-pail . THe Country Damsels boast , That they are admired most , Yet nevertheless , The truth to express , Rich London shall rule the roast ; It's very well known , Kate , Bridget , and Joan , Are rusty , coarse , and brown , With loads they bear , Through scorching air ; Thus I declare , They can't compare With Lasses of London - Town . There's many a milking Lass , Is tumbled upon the grass , Both morning and night , In pleasant delight , And often it comes to pass , Their bellies do swell , Then Nancy and Nell , Poor Creatures , do look down ; With grief and woe , Their eyes do flow , At length we know , For Maids they go When ever they come to Town . When Luna is in the full , Those innocent Milkmaids will , Endeavour to make , Some willing mistake , And commonly stroke the bull ; They'll frolic and play , As well upon hay , As on soft beds of down ; They know it's true , Kate , Joan , and Prue , And smiling Sue , Will all outdo The Lasses of London - Town . They feed upon salted swine , Which makes them the more incline , To follow the sport , But we near the Court , Have delicate dishes fine , Most pleasing and sweet , Which when we have eat , We lodge on beds of down , To take our ease , Rise when we please , Such things as these , Always agrees With Lasses of London - Town . There's many a noble Knight , Has honoured a Beauty bright , And made her his own , Though wealth she had none ; Pray who has these charms of might ? No buttermilk Maid , Who follows the trade , Of kissing e'ry Clown ; But such as they , Who e'ry day , In rich array , Their plums display , Young Lasses of London - Town . What honour did ever assail The Country milking-pail ? What Spark can devote , His fancy to dote On Dorothy is dragle tail ? When beautiful charms , May lodge in his arms , Of she that cannot frown ; Not milking-pails , But sprightly Girls , That decked with pearls , For Knights and Earls , Young Lasses of Lodon - Town . Among many Girls of fame , Young beautiful Nan by name , Who being well breed , Her Master did wed , And now she's a stately Dame : What Country Kate Was ever so great , That trudges up and down ? It's beauty bright , That does invite , Duke , Lord , or Knight , To the delight - Full Lasses of London - Town . Licensed and Entered according to Order London : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . 