TO : WANTON Will . of Wapping : OR , THE Country Lass Courted and Conquered by the pleasant Charms of the Jovial GARDINER , Who gave her a Tester and a Lap-full of Carrots to the Bargain . To the Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . A Gardener brisk and brave , he did a young Damosel Mow , She granted him what he did crave , and never once answered no . She neither was coy nor nice , when first he did to her go ; A single Tester was the price , she took it , and never said no . Her Cheeks they were Cherry-red , her Skin too as white as Snow , When he asked for her Maidenhead , she yielded and never said no . He gave her a tender Kiss , and wonderful kind did show , And pressed her for the farther Bliss , she yielded and never said no . When he this young Damsel found was willing to fallen down low , He laid her fairly on the ground , and she never answered no . The Gardener brisk and stout , the Damsel much Love did show , But what they did , pray find it out ; but she never answered no . When he had his Love revealed , before he would let her go , He gave her what his Ground did yield , she took it and never said no . But less than in half a year , her Belly began to show ; Then Grief and Care came in the Rear , she wished she had then said no . Her Neighbour was standing by , who ask's the Cause of her Woe ; Said she , I did with William lie , and never did answer no . Alas ! you are much to blame , for this proves your Overthrow , You bring your self to open shame , you better had answered no . Why you are a Married Wife , and yet I am certain though , Had you been there I'll pawn Life , you could not have answered no . His delicate pleasing Charms made Love in all my Veins flow ; He kissed and hugged me in his Arms , What Maiden could ever say no ? This Gardener kind and free , did much of his kindness show , And such large Gifts bestowed on me that I could not answer no . prey , What did he give to you , when first he obtained the Prze ? Why neighbour , Sixpence , this is true , and a Lap full of Carrots likewise . No longer Disputing stand , for I will the Booty prize ; He gave me Sixpence in my hand , a Lap full of Carrots likewise . I needs must confess it's true , his Kindness you seem to show ; But here I'll take my leave of you , the Carrots begins to grow . Printed for G. Conyers in Little-Britain . TO : WANTON Will . of Wapping : OR , THE Country Lass Courted and Conquered by the pleasant Charms of the Jovial GARDINER , Who gave her a Tester and a Lap-full of Carrots to the Bargain . To the Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . A Gardener brisk and brave , he did a young Damosel Mow , She granted him what he did crave , and never once answered no . She neither was coy nor nice , when first he did to her go ; A single Tester was the price , she took it , and never said no . Her Cheeks they were Cherry-red , her Skin too as white as Snow , When he asked for her Maidenhead , she yielded and never said no . He gave her a tender Kiss , and wonderful kind did show , And pressed her for the farther Bliss , she yielded and never said no . When he this young Damsel found was willing to fallen down low , He laid her fairly on the ground , and she never answered no . The Gardener brisk and stout , the Damsel much Love did show , But what they did , pray find it out ; but she never answered no . When he had his Love revealed , before he would let her go , He gave her what his Ground did yield , she took it and never said no . But less than in half a year , her Belly began to show ; Then Grief and Care came in the Rear , she wished she had then said no . Her Neighbour was standing by , who ask's the Cause of her Woe ; Said she , I did with William lie , and never did answer no . Alas ! you are much to blame , for this proves your Overthrow , You bring your self to open shame , you better had answered no . Why you are a Married Wife , and yet I am certain though , Had you been there I'll pawn Life , you could not have answered no . His delicate pleasing Charms made Love in all my Veins flow ; He kissed and hugged me in his Arms , What Maiden could ever say no ? This Gardener kind and free , did much of his kindness show , And such large Gifts bestowed on me that I could not answer no . prey , What did he give to you , when first he obtained the Prze ? Why neighbour , Sixpence , this is true , and a Lap full of Carrots likewise . No longer Disputing stand , for I will the Booty prize ; He gave me Sixpence in my hand , a Lap full of Carrots likewise . I needs must confess it's true , his Kindness you seem to show ; But here I'll take my leave of you , the Carrots begins to grow . Printed for G. Conyers in Little-Britain . 