TO : THE HAPPY LOVERS , OR , Caelia wone by Aminta is Loyalty . A New SONG in great Request at Court . This maybe Printed , R.P. W [ h ] y are my Eyes still Flowing ? Why does my heart thus trembling move ? Why do I sighs , when going ? To see the Darling Saint I Love : Ah! she's my Heaven , and in her Eyes , The Dei-ty , There is no Life Like what she can give , Nor any Death like taking my leave . I . Tell me no more of Glory , to Courts Ambition I've resigned , But tell a long long Story , of Celia is shape her face and mind : Speak too of Raptures that will Life destroy , to Enjoy , Had I a Diadem Sceptre and Ball , for that dear minute I'ld part with them all . II Why am I not enjoying my self , delighting in thy Arms ? My painful Love destroy-ing , with killing pleasures from thy Charms : Come , come dear Celia , now let S torms be gone , and o-ver-blown ; There's no delight like thy transporting Love , No joy below , what ever there's above . IV. Why does my heart thus grieve-me , as I lie panting on my Bed ? Why does my hope's deceive-me , when cruel Fate [ s ] pronounce me dead ? Speak , speak , dear Saint , and by those conquering eyes that - - surprise : Give , give me favour in thy fight again , Or kill me quite to ea [ s ] e my pain . V. Her ANSWER . HOw can I seek to cover a flaming heart overwhelmed with grief ? See , see a Constant Lover , thus fainting , plead for some relief ! No , no , Aminta , cease now to implore sigh-no more : Had I ten thousand hearts in my Breast , I'ld part with all to give my Love rest . VI . Why does Aminta sighing , think I will coily Love deface ? But can there be deny-ing , to such a Person , such a Grace ? Ah! such becoming boldness too is found , tobe Crowned , That no fair Nymph that lives upon the plain , Can have a heart to give my Dear pain . VII . Amint. Who can express the joy-ing , that my poor heart does leaping find ? Fly hence all heart-annoy-ing , and fatal grief , for Celia is kind : Come then dear Celia , let us now enjoy , Cel. Ay , dearest Ay : While we have Breath let Mortals wonder this , Envy they may , but not spoil our Bliss . Printed for J. Blare at the looking-glass on London-Bridge , 1689. TO : THE HAPPY LOVERS , OR , Caelia wone by Aminta is Loyalty . A New SONG in great Request at Court . This maybe Printed , R.P. W [ h ] y are my Eyes still Flowing ? Why does my heart thus trembling move ? Why do I sighs , when going ? To see the Darling Saint I Love : Ah! she's my Heaven , and in her Eyes , The Dei-ty , There is no Life Like what she can give , Nor any Death like taking my leave . I . Tell me no more of Glory , to Courts Ambition I've resigned , But tell a long long Story , of Celia is shape her face and mind : Speak too of Raptures that will Life destroy , to Enjoy , Had I a Diadem Sceptre and Ball , for that dear minute I'ld part with them all . II Why am I not enjoying my self , delighting in thy Arms ? My painful Love destroy-ing , with killing pleasures from thy Charms : Come , come dear Celia , now let S torms be gone , and o-ver-blown ; There's no delight like thy transporting Love , No joy below , what ever there's above . IV. Why does my heart thus grieve-me , as I lie panting on my Bed ? Why does my hope's deceive-me , when cruel Fate [ s ] pronounce me dead ? Speak , speak , dear Saint , and by those conquering eyes that - - surprise : Give , give me favour in thy fight again , Or kill me quite to ea [ s ] e my pain . V. Her ANSWER . HOw can I seek to cover a flaming heart overwhelmed with grief ? See , see a Constant Lover , thus fainting , plead for some relief ! No , no , Aminta , cease now to implore sigh-no more : Had I ten thousand hearts in my Breast , I'ld part with all to give my Love rest . VI . Why does Aminta sighing , think I will coily Love deface ? But can there be deny-ing , to such a Person , such a Grace ? Ah! such becoming boldness too is found , tobe Crowned , That no fair Nymph that lives upon the plain , Can have a heart to give my Dear pain . VII . Amint. Who can express the joy-ing , that my poor heart does leaping find ? Fly hence all heart-annoy-ing , and fatal grief , for Celia is kind : Come then dear Celia , let us now enjoy , Cel. Ay , dearest Ay : While we have Breath let Mortals wonder this , Envy they may , but not spoil our Bliss . Printed for J. Blare at the looking-glass on London-Bridge , 1689. 