TO : THE Frightened Yorkshire Damosel , OR , Fears Dispersed by Pleasure . To the Tune of , I met with a Country Lass , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) When first I began to Court , and pretty young Maids to Woo I could not win the Virgin Fort , but by the Bogulmaroo . ( 2 ) I kissed her in Summer time , and in the cold Winter too ; At last I took her in the Prime , but by the Bogulmaroo . ( 3 ) My Love she was going one Night to Bed as she used to do , When on the Stairs she saw a Spright it was the Bogulmaroo . ( 4 ) She came to my Chamber-door , and could not tell what to do ; But straight began to weep full soar , for fear of Bogulmaroo . ( 5 ) At last she came boldly in , though still her poor heart did ; For looking back the Spright did Grin , Oh cruel Bogulmaroo . ( 6 ) She started and run in haste , and close to my Bedside drew ; Her Eyes she durst not backward cast , for fear of Bogulmaroo . ( 7 ) But into my Bed she crept , and did her Sorrows renew , She wrung her hands , and sadly wept , for fear of Bogulmaroo . ( 8 ) I turned about to the Maid , as Lovers are wont to do ; And bid her be no more afraid of the Ugly Bogulmaroo . ( 9 ) I Kissed and Embraced her then , our pleasures they were not few ; We lay abed next day till Ten , for fear of Bogulmaroo . ( 10 ) My Love she was all Dismayed , to think of what she had done ; Arise , said I , be not afraid , the Bogulmaroo is gone . ( 11 ) I Married her the next day , and did her pleasures renew ; Each night we spend in Charming Play , for all the Bogulmaroo . ( 12 ) I never said a word of the thing , nor never intend to do ; But every time she Smiles on me , I think of Bogulmaroo . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce , in Little-Brittain . 1689. TO : THE Frightened Yorkshire Damosel , OR , Fears Dispersed by Pleasure . To the Tune of , I met with a Country Lass , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) When first I began to Court , and pretty young Maids to Woo I could not win the Virgin Fort , but by the Bogulmaroo . ( 2 ) I kissed her in Summer time , and in the cold Winter too ; At last I took her in the Prime , but by the Bogulmaroo . ( 3 ) My Love she was going one Night to Bed as she used to do , When on the Stairs she saw a Spright it was the Bogulmaroo . ( 4 ) She came to my Chamber-door , and could not tell what to do ; But straight began to weep full soar , for fear of Bogulmaroo . ( 5 ) At last she came boldly in , though still her poor heart did ; For looking back the Spright did Grin , Oh cruel Bogulmaroo . ( 6 ) She started and run in haste , and close to my Bedside drew ; Her Eyes she durst not backward cast , for fear of Bogulmaroo . ( 7 ) But into my Bed she crept , and did her Sorrows renew , She wrung her hands , and sadly wept , for fear of Bogulmaroo . ( 8 ) I turned about to the Maid , as Lovers are wont to do ; And bid her be no more afraid of the Ugly Bogulmaroo . ( 9 ) I Kissed and Embraced her then , our pleasures they were not few ; We lay abed next day till Ten , for fear of Bogulmaroo . ( 10 ) My Love she was all Dismayed , to think of what she had done ; Arise , said I , be not afraid , the Bogulmaroo is gone . ( 11 ) I Married her the next day , and did her pleasures renew ; Each night we spend in Charming Play , for all the Bogulmaroo . ( 12 ) I never said a word of the thing , nor never intend to do ; But every time she Smiles on me , I think of Bogulmaroo . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce , in Little-Brittain . 1689. 