TO : The Denying Lady : OR , A Travellers Frolic with a Woman that Replied no to all Questions and Discourses put to Her. Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . 1. A S I was upon the way , a Lady by me did go ; I asked her what time of day , her answer to me was not . 2. Concluding she did not hear , I asked her how far to Bow ; Instead of saying far or near , her answer to me was not . 3. Her humour methought was strange I would not be baffled so ; Madam will you a Kiss exchange ? her answer it still was not . 4. She smiled as she spoke to me , or else my Cake had been Dough ; Will you said I , then angry be , her answer it still was not . 5. Encouraged by this Reply , I on with my Tail did go ; Won't you refuse my Company ? her answer it still was not . 6. Thus I discovered the way ; her humour better to know ; Will you Loves precepts disobey ? her answer it still was not . 7. I offered her thewn my hand , she took it with pleasing show ; Will you a Lovers wish withstand ? her answer it still was not . 8. If I should a Favour crave , you would not offended grow ; Or shall I not your Anger have , her answer it still was not . 9. Won't you be averse that we , together should walk to Bow ; Or fit a while beneath yond Tree ? her answer it still was not . 10. The Tree was nearest by much , and thither we chosen to go ; Will you your sweet embraces grutch her answer to me was not . 11. I tumbled her gently down , and pleased her fancy I trow ; For she gave me full twenty pou , her answer no more was not . 12. I rallied my Forces then , and bravely attacked my Froe ; She swore I was the best of men , her answer no more was not . 13. I asked her House and Name , which no Body here shall know ; She frankly did declare the same , her answer no more was not . 14. We oft repeated our sport , we were not Idle or slow ; What ever I begged of her in short , her answer no more was not . Printed by and for A. Milbourn [ , ] at the Stationers - Arms in Green - Arbor . TO : The Denying Lady : OR , A Travellers Frolic with a Woman that Replied no to all Questions and Discourses put to Her. Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . 1. A S I was upon the way , a Lady by me did go ; I asked her what time of day , her answer to me was not . 2. Concluding she did not hear , I asked her how far to Bow ; Instead of saying far or near , her answer to me was not . 3. Her humour methought was strange I would not be baffled so ; Madam will you a Kiss exchange ? her answer it still was not . 4. She smiled as she spoke to me , or else my Cake had been Dough ; Will you said I , then angry be , her answer it still was not . 5. Encouraged by this Reply , I on with my Tail did go ; Won't you refuse my Company ? her answer it still was not . 6. Thus I discovered the way ; her humour better to know ; Will you Loves precepts disobey ? her answer it still was not . 7. I offered her thewn my hand , she took it with pleasing show ; Will you a Lovers wish withstand ? her answer it still was not . 8. If I should a Favour crave , you would not offended grow ; Or shall I not your Anger have , her answer it still was not . 9. Won't you be averse that we , together should walk to Bow ; Or fit a while beneath yond Tree ? her answer it still was not . 10. The Tree was nearest by much , and thither we chosen to go ; Will you your sweet embraces grutch her answer to me was not . 11. I tumbled her gently down , and pleased her fancy I trow ; For she gave me full twenty pou , her answer no more was not . 12. I rallied my Forces then , and bravely attacked my Froe ; She swore I was the best of men , her answer no more was not . 13. I asked her House and Name , which no Body here shall know ; She frankly did declare the same , her answer no more was not . 14. We oft repeated our sport , we were not Idle or slow ; What ever I begged of her in short , her answer no more was not . Printed by and for A. Milbourn [ , ] at the Stationers - Arms in Green - Arbor . 