TO : THE Deceitful Merchant : OR , The Waterman's Daughter's Wrongs redressed by Fortune ' [ s ] Favours , after strange and wondered Adventures . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . Licensed according to Order . A Waterman near Gravel-lane , He had a Daughter nam Jane , Whose wit and beauty did excel , Most Ladies that in London dwell . Since with her Friends it was but low , She would abroad to Service go ; And while she did in Service stay , A Merchant courted her each day . The Maiden modestly replied , Kind Sir , I am not qual [ i ] fyed For such a worthy Match as you , Who may have wealth and beauty too . Yet what she said was but in vain , His constant suit he did maintain , Till he her yielding heart betrayed , And then he left this virtuous Maid . Though faithful Love was rooted deep , Said she , I will my counsel keep , For why the World shall never know That I have been deluded so . O cruel Wretch ! what hast thou done ? My yielding heart too soon you wone , now nought but ruin can I see , Alas ! what will become of me ? N [ oh ] w void [ oh ] f all the thoughts of fear , The Seas I'll range both far and near ; And if kind Death his Dart should send , I will account him as my Friend . This said , without the least delay , She sold her silken robes that day , And clothed herself fit for the Seas , Thereby to set her Heart at ease . Thus like a proper Youth she went With a firm resolution bent , To seek a Captain , which she found Hoisting up Sail , and outward bound . He entertained her as a Youth , And never knew the naked truth , Till they were home returned again , Though eighteen months they sailed the Main . While they were out , it was their chance To meet a Privateer of France , Loaded with Plate and Golden over , Which they had took not long before . The Captain chased this Privateer , And at the length he came so near , That he his roaring Guns did play , And straight began a bloody fray . The Damsel then , in Seaman's dress , Did valiantly these words express , Let's pour them in a new broadside , And it will soon subdue their pride . The Cannons then like thunder roared , And brought their Main-mass to the board , Becoming Master's of the same , Like brave heroic lads of fame . It was a sweet and pleasant sighed , To view the Gold and Silver bright : The Captain said unto his Boy , this litte Box thou shalt enjoy . 'Twas filled with precious Stones indeed , Things which the Captain did not heed ; He minded more the Gold and Plate , But Jane by this was fortunate . This done , they straight did hoist up Sail , Attended with a pleasant gale , For London City straight they steer , With cheerful hearts and merry cheer . Jane took her Box and went on shore , Disguised as she had been before , Where she her Jems and Jewels sold , For full three thousand Pounds in Gold . Her former Love soon herd the news , And he would fain his faults excuse ; Once more he came and courted her , But , she said , I defy you Sir . False Love , said she , farewell , adieu , A better Man by far then you , Henceforth shall never flatter me , Since I have gained my liberty . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the sign of the Sun and Bible , in Pie-corner . TO : THE Deceitful Merchant : OR , The Waterman's Daughter's Wrongs redressed by Fortune ' [ s ] Favours , after strange and wondered Adventures . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . Licensed according to Order . A Waterman near Gravel-lane , He had a Daughter nam Jane , Whose wit and beauty did excel , Most Ladies that in London dwell . Since with her Friends it was but low , She would abroad to Service go ; And while she did in Service stay , A Merchant courted her each day . The Maiden modestly replied , Kind Sir , I am not qual [ i ] fyed For such a worthy Match as you , Who may have wealth and beauty too . Yet what she said was but in vain , His constant suit he did maintain , Till he her yielding heart betrayed , And then he left this virtuous Maid . Though faithful Love was rooted deep , Said she , I will my counsel keep , For why the World shall never know That I have been deluded so . O cruel Wretch ! what hast thou done ? My yielding heart too soon you wone , now nought but ruin can I see , Alas ! what will become of me ? N [ oh ] w void [ oh ] f all the thoughts of fear , The Seas I'll range both far and near ; And if kind Death his Dart should send , I will account him as my Friend . This said , without the least delay , She sold her silken robes that day , And clothed herself fit for the Seas , Thereby to set her Heart at ease . Thus like a proper Youth she went With a firm resolution bent , To seek a Captain , which she found Hoisting up Sail , and outward bound . He entertained her as a Youth , And never knew the naked truth , Till they were home returned again , Though eighteen months they sailed the Main . While they were out , it was their chance To meet a Privateer of France , Loaded with Plate and Golden over , Which they had took not long before . The Captain chased this Privateer , And at the length he came so near , That he his roaring Guns did play , And straight began a bloody fray . The Damsel then , in Seaman's dress , Did valiantly these words express , Let's pour them in a new broadside , And it will soon subdue their pride . The Cannons then like thunder roared , And brought their Main-mass to the board , Becoming Master's of the same , Like brave heroic lads of fame . It was a sweet and pleasant sighed , To view the Gold and Silver bright : The Captain said unto his Boy , this litte Box thou shalt enjoy . 'Twas filled with precious Stones indeed , Things which the Captain did not heed ; He minded more the Gold and Plate , But Jane by this was fortunate . This done , they straight did hoist up Sail , Attended with a pleasant gale , For London City straight they steer , With cheerful hearts and merry cheer . Jane took her Box and went on shore , Disguised as she had been before , Where she her Jems and Jewels sold , For full three thousand Pounds in Gold . Her former Love soon herd the news , And he would fain his faults excuse ; Once more he came and courted her , But , she said , I defy you Sir . False Love , said she , farewell , adieu , A better Man by far then you , Henceforth shall never flatter me , Since I have gained my liberty . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the sign of the Sun and Bible , in Pie-corner . 