TO : THE Wenching TANNER . Served in his Kind , OR , The Intrigues of his Wife and his Man John . To the Tune of , I met with a Country Lass , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) I Am but a Servant poor , my Master's Leather I tan , And often thresh in his Barn-floor , Trim-Tram , like Master like Man. ( 2 ) My Master's a Wenching Spark , and kisses his Neighbour N an , Which trade I soon began to mark , Trim-Tram , etc ( 3 ) I told my Mistress the Jest , it much in her fancy ran , And straight at my design she guessed , Trim-Tram , etc ( 4 ) She pleasantly smiled on me , and said , I wish you be Jahn , I sat her down upon my Knee , Trim-Tram , etc ( 5 ) I Courted her eagerly , she bids me do what I can , My finger straight was in the Pie , Trim-Tram , etc ( 6 ) Our pleasures by stealth was sweet , we ta [ s ] ted it now and than ; My Dame and I did often meet , Trim-Tram , etc ( 7 ) When he to the Butcher rides , and falls to the bouzing Can , Then I make Horns to all his Hides , Trim-Tram , etc ( 8 ) One day to Market he Scours , and there his old trade began , My Dame and I fell to All-fours , Trim-Tram , etc ( 9 ) At night he came home in drink , and at us did curse and ban ; I gave my Dame a Tip and a Wink , Trim-Tram , etc ( 10 ) She kissed and embraced the Sot , her kindness was but a Trepan ; For I mean while his Money god , Trim-Tram , etc ( 11 ) Next morning his Coin he missed , and straight was upon the [ ? ] , While she and I more warmly k [ issed ] , Trim-Tram , etc ( 12 ) One time to a Fair he went , to buy my Mistress a Fan , While we at home his Money spent , Trim-Tram , etc ( 13 ) If all our Intrigue you'd know , and sift the Flower from the Bran , While he does Harrow , I do Sow , Trim-Tram , like Master like Man , FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue - Anchor in Pye-Corner , 1689. TO : THE Wenching TANNER . Served in his Kind , OR , The Intrigues of his Wife and his Man John . To the Tune of , I met with a Country Lass , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) I Am but a Servant poor , my Master's Leather I tan , And often thresh in his Barn-floor , Trim-Tram , like Master like Man. ( 2 ) My Master's a Wenching Spark , and kisses his Neighbour N an , Which trade I soon began to mark , Trim-Tram , etc ( 3 ) I told my Mistress the Jest , it much in her fancy ran , And straight at my design she guessed , Trim-Tram , etc ( 4 ) She pleasantly smiled on me , and said , I wish you be Jahn , I sat her down upon my Knee , Trim-Tram , etc ( 5 ) I Courted her eagerly , she bids me do what I can , My finger straight was in the Pie , Trim-Tram , etc ( 6 ) Our pleasures by stealth was sweet , we ta [ s ] ted it now and than ; My Dame and I did often meet , Trim-Tram , etc ( 7 ) When he to the Butcher rides , and falls to the bouzing Can , Then I make Horns to all his Hides , Trim-Tram , etc ( 8 ) One day to Market he Scours , and there his old trade began , My Dame and I fell to All-fours , Trim-Tram , etc ( 9 ) At night he came home in drink , and at us did curse and ban ; I gave my Dame a Tip and a Wink , Trim-Tram , etc ( 10 ) She kissed and embraced the Sot , her kindness was but a Trepan ; For I mean while his Money god , Trim-Tram , etc ( 11 ) Next morning his Coin he missed , and straight was upon the [ ? ] , While she and I more warmly k [ issed ] , Trim-Tram , etc ( 12 ) One time to a Fair he went , to buy my Mistress a Fan , While we at home his Money spent , Trim-Tram , etc ( 13 ) If all our Intrigue you'd know , and sift the Flower from the Bran , While he does Harrow , I do Sow , Trim-Tram , like Master like Man , FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue - Anchor in Pye-Corner , 1689. 