TO : The Plowman's Praise : Or , A New SONG in Answer to the Bonny MILKMAID ; with a brief Account of Rural Pleasures exceeding Courtly Wanton Pastimes . To the Tune of , The Bonny Milkmaid , etc A Country life is sweet , In moderate cold and heat , to walk in the air , how pleasant and fair , Is every field of wheat ; the Goddess of flowers , adorning the bowers , And every meadow now ; so that I say , no Courtier may compare with They , who clothed in grey , Do follow the painful Blow . They rise with the morning lark , And labour till almost dark , then folding their sheep , they hasten to sleep , While every pleasant park next morning is ringing , with birds that are singing , On each green tender bough ; with what content , and merriment , their days are spent , whose minds are bent , To follow the painful Blow . Brisk Country Lads repair To every wake and fair , with Sary and Sue , Nan , Bridget , and Prue , No manner of charge they spare , in seasons of leisure , thus taking their pleasure , Such liberty they allow : the rural Train , through snow or rain , trip over the plain , with speed again , To follow the painful Blow . But hectoring Sparks at Court , According to Fame's report , are commonly soiled , nay , ruined and spoiled By follewing Venus sport : but this way of sinning , it is the beginning Of doting on e'ry Sow , who will not fail , for mugs of ale , to spread her tail ; against these we rail , Who follow the painful Blow . A hundred a year and more Some spend to maintain a Whore , who never would give , so long as they li [ v ] e , Not two-pe [ n ] ce to hell [ p ] the Poor ; their Wive [ s ] a [ r ] e neglected , and Harlots respected , This grieves the Nation now ; but it's not so , with we that go , where pleasures flow , to reap and mow , And follow the painful Blow . The Gallant that keeps his Crack , And tipples in bowls of sack , were it to be tried , his feathers of pride , Which decks and adorns his back , are Tailors , and Mercers , and other Men-dressers , For which they do don them now : but Ralph and Will no Compters fill , for Taylor's bill , or garments st [ i ] ll , But follow the painful Blow . The Gallant he's Sired and Sired , By Jenny his pretty Bird , he calls her his Honey , supplies her with Money , Till Frenchefied claps the word , and then he runs swearing , nay , raving and taring , And cries , I am ruined now ; and what is worse , the Spark does curse his empty purse : but it's not that [ u ] s With any that drives the Blow . Licensed and Entered according to [ Law ] London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . TO : The Plowman's Praise : Or , A New SONG in Answer to the Bonny MILKMAID ; with a brief Account of Rural Pleasures exceeding Courtly Wanton Pastimes . To the Tune of , The Bonny Milkmaid , etc A Country life is sweet , In moderate cold and heat , to walk in the air , how pleasant and fair , Is every field of wheat ; the Goddess of flowers , adorning the bowers , And every meadow now ; so that I say , no Courtier may compare with They , who clothed in grey , Do follow the painful Blow . They rise with the morning lark , And labour till almost dark , then folding their sheep , they hasten to sleep , While every pleasant park next morning is ringing , with birds that are singing , On each green tender bough ; with what content , and merriment , their days are spent , whose minds are bent , To follow the painful Blow . Brisk Country Lads repair To every wake and fair , with Sary and Sue , Nan , Bridget , and Prue , No manner of charge they spare , in seasons of leisure , thus taking their pleasure , Such liberty they allow : the rural Train , through snow or rain , trip over the plain , with speed again , To follow the painful Blow . But hectoring Sparks at Court , According to Fame's report , are commonly soiled , nay , ruined and spoiled By follewing Venus sport : but this way of sinning , it is the beginning Of doting on e'ry Sow , who will not fail , for mugs of ale , to spread her tail ; against these we rail , Who follow the painful Blow . A hundred a year and more Some spend to maintain a Whore , who never would give , so long as they li [ v ] e , Not two-pe [ n ] ce to hell [ p ] the Poor ; their Wive [ s ] a [ r ] e neglected , and Harlots respected , This grieves the Nation now ; but it's not so , with we that go , where pleasures flow , to reap and mow , And follow the painful Blow . The Gallant that keeps his Crack , And tipples in bowls of sack , were it to be tried , his feathers of pride , Which decks and adorns his back , are Tailors , and Mercers , and other Men-dressers , For which they do don them now : but Ralph and Will no Compters fill , for Taylor's bill , or garments st [ i ] ll , But follow the painful Blow . The Gallant he's Sired and Sired , By Jenny his pretty Bird , he calls her his Honey , supplies her with Money , Till Frenchefied claps the word , and then he runs swearing , nay , raving and taring , And cries , I am ruined now ; and what is worse , the Spark does curse his empty purse : but it's not that [ u ] s With any that drives the Blow . Licensed and Entered according to [ Law ] London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 