TO : And Excellent New Scotch Song , Called , Jockey's Complaint FOR His Beloved Moggy , Together with Moggys Kind Answer . As it was Lately Sung in a New Play at the Royal Theatre . Licensed according to Order . COme , sweet Lass , this Bonny weather , Lets together , Come sweet lass Lets trip it over the Grass , Every where , Poor Jockey seeks his dear , Unless she appear , He sees no Beauty there . On our Green , The loons are sporting , Piping , Courting , On our Green , The blithest Lads are seen , Every Day , The Lasses sport and play ; Every one is Gay , But I , when your away . Waa , is me , My Moggys staying , Long delaying , ( Waa is me ) Breeds in me Jealousy ; For , I'm fear , Her Beauty was so clear , lest some Scottish Peer Hath stold away my Dear . She I'm prize Above all others , Sisters , Brother's , She I'm prize ; TO ho' Moggy me denys , Long I'm stayed : Without her speedy Aid , My Life it will fade , Ah! Cruel , cruel , Maid ! Moggys Kind Answer to Jockey's Complaint . Jockey dear , Leave thy exclaiming , And complaining , Jockey dear , And Never , never fear , For I'm be As constant unto thee , As thou art to me , To love thee Faithfully . Dry thy Eyn ; My dearest Jockey , Take thy Moggy , Dry thy Eyn ; For ever I'm be thine : And to you I'm ever will be true ; L eave lamenting too , My dearest Jockey doe . No Scotch Peer Shall ever wed me , No , nor Bed me . No Scotch Peer , Nor any loon , my Dear , Never dread ; Let's gang to Kirk , & amp ; Wed , Then at night , in Bed , Thou'st have my Maiden head Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pye-Corner . TO : And Excellent New Scotch Song , Called , Jockey's Complaint FOR His Beloved Moggy , Together with Moggys Kind Answer . As it was Lately Sung in a New Play at the Royal Theatre . Licensed according to Order . COme , sweet Lass , this Bonny weather , Lets together , Come sweet lass Lets trip it over the Grass , Every where , Poor Jockey seeks his dear , Unless she appear , He sees no Beauty there . On our Green , The loons are sporting , Piping , Courting , On our Green , The blithest Lads are seen , Every Day , The Lasses sport and play ; Every one is Gay , But I , when your away . Waa , is me , My Moggys staying , Long delaying , ( Waa is me ) Breeds in me Jealousy ; For , I'm fear , Her Beauty was so clear , lest some Scottish Peer Hath stold away my Dear . She I'm prize Above all others , Sisters , Brother's , She I'm prize ; TO ho' Moggy me denys , Long I'm stayed : Without her speedy Aid , My Life it will fade , Ah! Cruel , cruel , Maid ! Moggys Kind Answer to Jockey's Complaint . Jockey dear , Leave thy exclaiming , And complaining , Jockey dear , And Never , never fear , For I'm be As constant unto thee , As thou art to me , To love thee Faithfully . Dry thy Eyn ; My dearest Jockey , Take thy Moggy , Dry thy Eyn ; For ever I'm be thine : And to you I'm ever will be true ; L eave lamenting too , My dearest Jockey doe . No Scotch Peer Shall ever wed me , No , nor Bed me . No Scotch Peer , Nor any loon , my Dear , Never dread ; Let's gang to Kirk , & amp ; Wed , Then at night , in Bed , Thou'st have my Maiden head Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pye-Corner . 