TO : THE CUCKOLD'S Calamity OR , THE Old Usurer Plundered of his Gold BY His Young WIFE , FOR The supply of her Gallants , WHO Hope Her out at a dead LIFT . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . Licensed according to Order . HEar my lamentation , good People , now I pray , I married with a Wife that is youthful , fair and gay ; Oh! she took me for my gold , though I'm goughty , lame , and old , The more [ r ] e's the pity , through the City , I am often told Of the Intrigues which she often plays , My Heart it is perplexed and tormented many ways ; Her Sparks she keeps in store , and kicks me out of door , Now , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . Though I strive to please her , I find it's all in vain , My tender found embraces with frowns she does disdain ; Once she threw me out of bed , where I fell , and broke my head , I cried , Sweet Jewel , why so cruel ? then she wished me dead , There did I lie in a woeful plighted , Upon the boards , dear Friends , till the morning , morning-light ; My Lodging on the Floor , did grieve my Heart full soar , Friends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . Nay I did but grumble that she had served me so , And thereupon the Pisspot she at my Head did throw , Which was of the largest size , and before that I could rise , The flood of Urine , o ! the Urine blinded both my eyes ; A tossed which was in the Pot did fly Between my aged Gums , then aloud I thus did cry , You saucy stinking Whore , intruth I said no more , But she like thunder , soon asunder my grey locks she tore . She was much offended that I had called her thus , So to be reconciled , I was force to stretch my Purse , A rich Garb for her I bought , with fine golden Flowers wrought , The best of Women , for their Trimming , though they thousands brought , Never can vaunt it more gay in Pride , Yet to my face she swears I shall still be hornified ; She having Sparks in store , a dozen still or more , Friends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . How do'ye think she served the last Whitson-wednesday , My bag of Gold and Silver under my Pillow lay , While I slept she drew it out , now with Hectors brave and stout , She takes her Pleasure , spends my Treasure , o , it flies about , While she does revel it day and night , In Taverns with her Sparks , I am clearly ruined quite , For there they rant and roar , consuming all my store , Friends , under favour , did you ever here the like before . Once it was my fortune to find her with a Bow , As they into a Tavern both hand in hand did go , Whereupon I did presume for to watch them to their Room , Where like a Novice , through a crevice , I beheld my doom , Having no power to hold my tongue , I called him , Saucy Knave , and the door I open slung ; But strait her Gallant swore , I run and said no more , F [ r ] iends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . But he overtook me , and bent his rugged Brows , And said , He'd run me through if I owned so sweet a Spouse : Now with that he drew , and swears , not regarding my grey hairs With naked Rapier did he vapour , drove me down the stairs , So that I left him with my young Wife . And glad I was , dear Friends , that I saved my precious life ; So getting out of door , I vowed I'ld come no more , Friends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . Losing all my Money I fear will break my Heart , Beside there is not many that seems to take my part ; O what Sorrows have I felt , let them take her like a Jilt , The Devil blind her , I'ld not mind her , had I but my Gilded ; But in regard she has served me so , Dear Friends I can't forbear , but my Horn I needs must blow The loose of all my Store , has made me wretched poor , Friends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . TO : THE CUCKOLD'S Calamity OR , THE Old Usurer Plundered of his Gold BY His Young WIFE , FOR The supply of her Gallants , WHO Hope Her out at a dead LIFT . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . Licensed according to Order . HEar my lamentation , good People , now I pray , I married with a Wife that is youthful , fair and gay ; Oh! she took me for my gold , though I'm goughty , lame , and old , The more [ r ] e's the pity , through the City , I am often told Of the Intrigues which she often plays , My Heart it is perplexed and tormented many ways ; Her Sparks she keeps in store , and kicks me out of door , Now , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . Though I strive to please her , I find it's all in vain , My tender found embraces with frowns she does disdain ; Once she threw me out of bed , where I fell , and broke my head , I cried , Sweet Jewel , why so cruel ? then she wished me dead , There did I lie in a woeful plighted , Upon the boards , dear Friends , till the morning , morning-light ; My Lodging on the Floor , did grieve my Heart full soar , Friends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . Nay I did but grumble that she had served me so , And thereupon the Pisspot she at my Head did throw , Which was of the largest size , and before that I could rise , The flood of Urine , o ! the Urine blinded both my eyes ; A tossed which was in the Pot did fly Between my aged Gums , then aloud I thus did cry , You saucy stinking Whore , intruth I said no more , But she like thunder , soon asunder my grey locks she tore . She was much offended that I had called her thus , So to be reconciled , I was force to stretch my Purse , A rich Garb for her I bought , with fine golden Flowers wrought , The best of Women , for their Trimming , though they thousands brought , Never can vaunt it more gay in Pride , Yet to my face she swears I shall still be hornified ; She having Sparks in store , a dozen still or more , Friends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . How do'ye think she served the last Whitson-wednesday , My bag of Gold and Silver under my Pillow lay , While I slept she drew it out , now with Hectors brave and stout , She takes her Pleasure , spends my Treasure , o , it flies about , While she does revel it day and night , In Taverns with her Sparks , I am clearly ruined quite , For there they rant and roar , consuming all my store , Friends , under favour , did you ever here the like before . Once it was my fortune to find her with a Bow , As they into a Tavern both hand in hand did go , Whereupon I did presume for to watch them to their Room , Where like a Novice , through a crevice , I beheld my doom , Having no power to hold my tongue , I called him , Saucy Knave , and the door I open slung ; But strait her Gallant swore , I run and said no more , F [ r ] iends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . But he overtook me , and bent his rugged Brows , And said , He'd run me through if I owned so sweet a Spouse : Now with that he drew , and swears , not regarding my grey hairs With naked Rapier did he vapour , drove me down the stairs , So that I left him with my young Wife . And glad I was , dear Friends , that I saved my precious life ; So getting out of door , I vowed I'ld come no more , Friends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . Losing all my Money I fear will break my Heart , Beside there is not many that seems to take my part ; O what Sorrows have I felt , let them take her like a Jilt , The Devil blind her , I'ld not mind her , had I but my Gilded ; But in regard she has served me so , Dear Friends I can't forbear , but my Horn I needs must blow The loose of all my Store , has made me wretched poor , Friends , under favour , did you ever hear the like before . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 