BONNY DUNDEE : OR , Jockey's Deliverance , BEING HIS Valiant Escape from Dundee And the Parson's Daughter , whom he had Mowed . To and Excellent Tune , called , Bonny Dundee . Licensed according to Order . WHere gottest thou the Haver-mill Bonack , blind Booby canst thou not see , I'm god it out of the Scotsman ' s Wallet , as he lig Loosing him under a Tree : Come fill me my Cup , come fill me my Can , Come saddle my Horse , and call up my Man , Come open the Gates and let me go free . And show me the way unto Bonny Dundee . For I have neither Robbed nor Stole , nor have I done any Injury , But I have got a Fair Maid with Child , the Minister is Daughter of Bonny Dundee : Come fill me my Cup , come fill me my Can , Come saddle my Horse and call up my Man , Come open the Gates and let me go free , For I'm gang no more unto Bonny Dundee . Although I'm have got her Maidenhead , gued faith I'm have left her mine own in lew , for when at her Daddys I'm gan to Bed , I'm Moad her without any more to do , I'm cuddeled her close , and gave her a Kiss , Pray tell me now , where is the harm of this : Then open the Gates and let me go free , For I'm gan no more unto Bonny Dundee . All Scotland never afforded a Lass so bonny and blithe as Jenny my dear , I'm gave her a Gown of green on the grass , yet now I'm no longer must tarry here : Then saddle my Nag , that's bonny and gay , For now it is time to gan hence away ; Then open the Gates and let me go free , Shes ken me no more unto Bonny Dundee . In liberty still I reckon to reign , for why I have done no honest Man wrong , The Parson may take his daughter again , for she'll be a Mammy before it's long , And have a young Lad or Lass of my Breed ; I'm think I have done a generous Deed : Then open the Gates and let me go free , For I'm gan no more unto Bonny Dundee . Since Jenny , the fair , was willingly kind , and came to my Arms with ready good will , A Token of Love I'm leave her behind , thus have I requited her kindness still , Though Jenny , the fair , I often have Moad , Another may reap the Harvest I sowed . Then open the Gates and let me go free , Shes ken me no more unto Bonny Dundee . Her Daddy would have me make her my Bride , but have , and to hold , I never could endure , From Bonny Dundee this day I will Ride , it being a place not safe and secure , Then Jenny farewell , my Joy and my Dear , With Sword in my hand , the Passage I'm clear , Then open the Gates and let me go free , For I'm gan no more unto Bonny Dundee . My Father is a muckle good Leard , my Mother a Lady bonny and gay , Then while I have skill to handle a sword , the Parson is request I'm never obey , Then Sanny , my Man , be thou of my mind , In Bonny Dundee we'se not be confined , The Gates we will force and set our selves free , And never come more unto Bonny Dundee . Then Sawny replied : I'm never refuse to Fight for a Leard so Valiant and Bold , While I have a drop of blood for to loose , ever any sick Loons shall keep us in hold ; This sword in my hand I'm Valiantly wield , And fight by your side to kill , or be killed , For forcing the Gates , and set our selves free , And so bid adieu to Bonny Dundee . With Swords ready drawn they r [ i ] worser to the gate where being den'y and Entrance through , The Master and Man they fought at that rate , that some ran away , and others they slew , Thus Jockey , the Leard , and Sawny , his man , They Valiantly Fought , as High-Landers can , In spite of the Leons they set themselves free , And so bid adieu to Bonny Dundee . Printed for Charles Bates at the White-Hart in West-Smith-field . BONNY DUNDEE : OR , Jockey's Deliverance , BEING HIS Valiant Escape from Dundee And the Parson's Daughter , whom he had Mowed . To and Excellent Tune , called , Bonny Dundee . Licensed according to Order . WHere gottest thou the Haver-mill Bonack , blind Booby canst thou not see , I'm god it out of the Scotsman ' s Wallet , as he lig Loosing him under a Tree : Come fill me my Cup , come fill me my Can , Come saddle my Horse , and call up my Man , Come open the Gates and let me go free . And show me the way unto Bonny Dundee . For I have neither Robbed nor Stole , nor have I done any Injury , But I have got a Fair Maid with Child , the Minister is Daughter of Bonny Dundee : Come fill me my Cup , come fill me my Can , Come saddle my Horse and call up my Man , Come open the Gates and let me go free , For I'm gang no more unto Bonny Dundee . Although I'm have got her Maidenhead , gued faith I'm have left her mine own in lew , for when at her Daddys I'm gan to Bed , I'm Moad her without any more to do , I'm cuddeled her close , and gave her a Kiss , Pray tell me now , where is the harm of this : Then open the Gates and let me go free , For I'm gan no more unto Bonny Dundee . All Scotland never afforded a Lass so bonny and blithe as Jenny my dear , I'm gave her a Gown of green on the grass , yet now I'm no longer must tarry here : Then saddle my Nag , that's bonny and gay , For now it is time to gan hence away ; Then open the Gates and let me go free , Shes ken me no more unto Bonny Dundee . In liberty still I reckon to reign , for why I have done no honest Man wrong , The Parson may take his daughter again , for she'll be a Mammy before it's long , And have a young Lad or Lass of my Breed ; I'm think I have done a generous Deed : Then open the Gates and let me go free , For I'm gan no more unto Bonny Dundee . Since Jenny , the fair , was willingly kind , and came to my Arms with ready good will , A Token of Love I'm leave her behind , thus have I requited her kindness still , Though Jenny , the fair , I often have Moad , Another may reap the Harvest I sowed . Then open the Gates and let me go free , Shes ken me no more unto Bonny Dundee . Her Daddy would have me make her my Bride , but have , and to hold , I never could endure , From Bonny Dundee this day I will Ride , it being a place not safe and secure , Then Jenny farewell , my Joy and my Dear , With Sword in my hand , the Passage I'm clear , Then open the Gates and let me go free , For I'm gan no more unto Bonny Dundee . My Father is a muckle good Leard , my Mother a Lady bonny and gay , Then while I have skill to handle a sword , the Parson is request I'm never obey , Then Sanny , my Man , be thou of my mind , In Bonny Dundee we'se not be confined , The Gates we will force and set our selves free , And never come more unto Bonny Dundee . Then Sawny replied : I'm never refuse to Fight for a Leard so Valiant and Bold , While I have a drop of blood for to loose , ever any sick Loons shall keep us in hold ; This sword in my hand I'm Valiantly wield , And fight by your side to kill , or be killed , For forcing the Gates , and set our selves free , And so bid adieu to Bonny Dundee . With Swords ready drawn they r [ i ] worser to the gate where being den'y and Entrance through , The Master and Man they fought at that rate , that some ran away , and others they slew , Thus Jockey , the Leard , and Sawny , his man , They Valiantly Fought , as High-Landers can , In spite of the Leons they set themselves free , And so bid adieu to Bonny Dundee . Printed for Charles Bates at the White-Hart in West-Smith-field . 