TO : Teague and Sawney : OR , The Unfortunate Success of a Dear-Joys Devotion by St. PATRICK is Cross . BEING Transformed into the Deel's Whirlegig . To the Tune of Lili bulero , etc 1. YOU that love Mirth , give ear to my Song , a moment you never can better employ : Sawney and Teague were marching along , a bonny Scotch Loon , and and Irish Dear-Joy . They had never seen a Windmill , nor had they herd of any such name ; As they were walking and merrily talking , at last by geud chance to a Windmill they came . 2. Swoonds , says Sawney , what do you call thot ? to tell its geud Name I am at a loss : Teague very readily answered the Scot , be Chreest I believe it's St. Patrick is Cross . Sir , said Sawney , you are mistaken , for it's St. Andrew is Cross , I will swear , There is his Bonnet and Garment hangs on it , the muckle geud St. dis in Edingbrough wear . 3. Nay , by my shoul , thou tellest all lees , for that I will swear is St. Patrick is Coat ; I see him in Ireland a buying the Frieze , and that is the same St. Patrick bought . He's a better Saint than ever hungry Scotland ever did breed , By my shalwashion he was my Relaushion , & amp ; had a great kindness for honest poor Teague . 4. Therefore , says Teague , I will be my shoul , now lay down my Arms and pluck out my Beads , Under this geud Holy Cross will I faul and say Pater Noster and some of our Creeds . Teague began with great Devotion for to adore St. Patrick is Cross ; The Wind set a blowing and turned the Sails going , & amp ; gave my Dear-Joy a damnable toss . 5. Sawny laughed to see how poor Teague lay scratching his Ears on top of the Grass , Swearing by Chreest 'twas the Deel's Whirligig , and none he was sure , of St. Patrick is Cross Teague cried out in a mighty Passion , Ah , by my shoul I'm very much soar ! By my shalwashion , this shall be a caution , to trust to St. Patrick is kindness no more . 6. Sawny to Teague then scoffingly cried , St. Patrick was but a sorry sad Loon , To hit you such a soar bang on the hide , for kneeling before him , and asking a Boon : Prithee Teague , serve geud St. Andrew , he , by my shoul , was a muckle geud Man ; Since your St. Patrick has served you such a trick I'ld see thee Dee'l take him , ever trust him again . Printed for C. G . TO : Teague and Sawney : OR , The Unfortunate Success of a Dear-Joys Devotion by St. PATRICK is Cross . BEING Transformed into the Deel's Whirlegig . To the Tune of Lili bulero , etc 1. YOU that love Mirth , give ear to my Song , a moment you never can better employ : Sawney and Teague were marching along , a bonny Scotch Loon , and and Irish Dear-Joy . They had never seen a Windmill , nor had they herd of any such name ; As they were walking and merrily talking , at last by geud chance to a Windmill they came . 2. Swoonds , says Sawney , what do you call thot ? to tell its geud Name I am at a loss : Teague very readily answered the Scot , be Chreest I believe it's St. Patrick is Cross . Sir , said Sawney , you are mistaken , for it's St. Andrew is Cross , I will swear , There is his Bonnet and Garment hangs on it , the muckle geud St. dis in Edingbrough wear . 3. Nay , by my shoul , thou tellest all lees , for that I will swear is St. Patrick is Coat ; I see him in Ireland a buying the Frieze , and that is the same St. Patrick bought . He's a better Saint than ever hungry Scotland ever did breed , By my shalwashion he was my Relaushion , & amp ; had a great kindness for honest poor Teague . 4. Therefore , says Teague , I will be my shoul , now lay down my Arms and pluck out my Beads , Under this geud Holy Cross will I faul and say Pater Noster and some of our Creeds . Teague began with great Devotion for to adore St. Patrick is Cross ; The Wind set a blowing and turned the Sails going , & amp ; gave my Dear-Joy a damnable toss . 5. Sawny laughed to see how poor Teague lay scratching his Ears on top of the Grass , Swearing by Chreest 'twas the Deel's Whirligig , and none he was sure , of St. Patrick is Cross Teague cried out in a mighty Passion , Ah , by my shoul I'm very much soar ! By my shalwashion , this shall be a caution , to trust to St. Patrick is kindness no more . 6. Sawny to Teague then scoffingly cried , St. Patrick was but a sorry sad Loon , To hit you such a soar bang on the hide , for kneeling before him , and asking a Boon : Prithee Teague , serve geud St. Andrew , he , by my shoul , was a muckle geud Man ; Since your St. Patrick has served you such a trick I'ld see thee Dee'l take him , ever trust him again . Printed for C. G. 