TO : THE Lovesick Blacksmith : OR , The Unkind MAID OF Ratcliff's Cruelty . Tune , Pegg and the Soldier . Licensed and Entered according to Order . NEar Old Gravel-lane , a Widower does dwell , That courted a Maiden whom he loved well , But she often cried , Your Suit pray forbear , For a Blacksmith I never can Love , I declare : Your Hammer and Anvil wont with me agree , Therefore for and Answer take this now from me , And leave off your Wooing , since I must be plain , For a Blacksmith is what I did ever disdain ; Do you think that I design ever to have A Blacksmith to follow me unto my Grave ; No , no , for and Answer I pray take this here , For a Blacksmith I never can Love , I declare . Her Answers they daily did run in his Mind , Yet he proved Constant , though she was Unkind , And often his Love he would make to her known ; But her Answer was always , Pray from me begone , And do not persist in your Suit here to me , For single I do resolve ever to be ; For Men are deceitful , I to you declare , Especially those that do speak you most fair . A Maid shall wait on thee , my Dear , if you'll have Me to be your Husband , I'll maintain you brave ; As for Gold and Silver , you shall have good store , If you'll fancy a Blacksmith and a Widower , That does love you dearly , & amp ; would venture his Life For to make you Happy , if you'll be his Wife ; What though I'm a Blacksmith , I have Gold good store , My Dear pity me , and your Frowns now give over : Though Forty Years of Age I am , it is true , There is none in the World I can fancy but you . Therefore , dearest Creature , be not too unkind , But let your poor Blacksmith some pity now find ; And do not so Cruel resolve for to prove , But grant me some pity and hope's of your Love ; But if that so unkind you resolve to be , Farewell , unkind Maiden , I hear Die for you . Then from her he went with a sorrowful heart , The wound which he felt from a powerful dart , Did cause him to weep , and continually cry , My life is a pain , I am willing to did : My dearest she slights me because of my trade , At every word she with scorn does upbrade A Blacksmith , and this is the cause of my grief , And now I must die without hope of relief . Farewell to my Dearest , the cause of my woe ; Farewell to the World , to my Chamber I'll go , And there I will weep out the rest of my days , For I am tormented a Million of ways . FINIS . Printed for J. Shooter . TO : THE Lovesick Blacksmith : OR , The Unkind MAID OF Ratcliff's Cruelty . Tune , Pegg and the Soldier . Licensed and Entered according to Order . NEar Old Gravel-lane , a Widower does dwell , That courted a Maiden whom he loved well , But she often cried , Your Suit pray forbear , For a Blacksmith I never can Love , I declare : Your Hammer and Anvil wont with me agree , Therefore for and Answer take this now from me , And leave off your Wooing , since I must be plain , For a Blacksmith is what I did ever disdain ; Do you think that I design ever to have A Blacksmith to follow me unto my Grave ; No , no , for and Answer I pray take this here , For a Blacksmith I never can Love , I declare . Her Answers they daily did run in his Mind , Yet he proved Constant , though she was Unkind , And often his Love he would make to her known ; But her Answer was always , Pray from me begone , And do not persist in your Suit here to me , For single I do resolve ever to be ; For Men are deceitful , I to you declare , Especially those that do speak you most fair . A Maid shall wait on thee , my Dear , if you'll have Me to be your Husband , I'll maintain you brave ; As for Gold and Silver , you shall have good store , If you'll fancy a Blacksmith and a Widower , That does love you dearly , & amp ; would venture his Life For to make you Happy , if you'll be his Wife ; What though I'm a Blacksmith , I have Gold good store , My Dear pity me , and your Frowns now give over : Though Forty Years of Age I am , it is true , There is none in the World I can fancy but you . Therefore , dearest Creature , be not too unkind , But let your poor Blacksmith some pity now find ; And do not so Cruel resolve for to prove , But grant me some pity and hope's of your Love ; But if that so unkind you resolve to be , Farewell , unkind Maiden , I hear Die for you . Then from her he went with a sorrowful heart , The wound which he felt from a powerful dart , Did cause him to weep , and continually cry , My life is a pain , I am willing to did : My dearest she slights me because of my trade , At every word she with scorn does upbrade A Blacksmith , and this is the cause of my grief , And now I must die without hope of relief . Farewell to my Dearest , the cause of my woe ; Farewell to the World , to my Chamber I'll go , And there I will weep out the rest of my days , For I am tormented a Million of ways . FINIS . Printed for J. Shooter . 