TO : THE Bonny Scotish Lad , AND THE Yielding Lass. To and excellent new Tune much in Request , called The Liggan Waters . I . BOnny Lass I love thee well , bonny Lad I love thee better , Wilt thou put off thy Hose and Shoes , and weened with me to Liggan Water ? 2. Liggan Water is so deep , and I am loath to wet my feet , But if you'll promise to marry me , I'll put off my Shoes , and follow thee . 3. I have House , and I have Land , I have all things at command , I have a thing that you never see , bonny Lass wilt thou Mow with me . 4. I good store of Cattle keep , Cows , Bulls , and Oxen , Hogs and Sheep , And all I have I'll give to thee , bonny Lass wilt thou mow with me . 5. Bonny Lad it is all in vain , before you shall your Will obtain I'll make you promise to marry me , and then thou'st freely Mow with me . 6. For your Goods and Lands I do not care , then bonny Jockey pray forbore , For I will never yield to thee without you'll promise to marry me . 7. As I went forth one Morning fair , I met with a bonny Lass , fresh and gay , A bonnier Lass , I never did see until I chanced to meet with thee . 8. This bonny Lass did ogle me , and I could hardly pass her by , She began for to be so free , and sighing said , she'd die for me . 9. From her white hand a Ring she took , and said , My Lad this is for thee , She gave me a smiling look , and soon did yield to lig with me . 10. Then bonny Jenny pity take , I'm left that bonny Lass for your sake , Soon I began to fancy thee , then bonny Jenny lig with me . 11. All night in softest Wool we'll lie , and kiss as close as Cockles do ; Then we the Bliss of Love will try , in Summer and in Winter too . 12. How can you so fickle be to dote on all that you do see ? If I should yield to lig with thee thou soon would prove as false to me . 13. I'ld have all Lasses wiser grow , and not found Love to young Men show For before that I do yield to thee , I'll make you promise to marry me . 14. But yet alas ! for all her Art little Cupid shot a Dart , That she could not resist Love's Charms , but strait did yield to Jockey is Arms. Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . TO : THE Bonny Scotish Lad , AND THE Yielding Lass. To and excellent new Tune much in Request , called The Liggan Waters . I . BOnny Lass I love thee well , bonny Lad I love thee better , Wilt thou put off thy Hose and Shoes , and weened with me to Liggan Water ? 2. Liggan Water is so deep , and I am loath to wet my feet , But if you'll promise to marry me , I'll put off my Shoes , and follow thee . 3. I have House , and I have Land , I have all things at command , I have a thing that you never see , bonny Lass wilt thou Mow with me . 4. I good store of Cattle keep , Cows , Bulls , and Oxen , Hogs and Sheep , And all I have I'll give to thee , bonny Lass wilt thou mow with me . 5. Bonny Lad it is all in vain , before you shall your Will obtain I'll make you promise to marry me , and then thou'st freely Mow with me . 6. For your Goods and Lands I do not care , then bonny Jockey pray forbore , For I will never yield to thee without you'll promise to marry me . 7. As I went forth one Morning fair , I met with a bonny Lass , fresh and gay , A bonnier Lass , I never did see until I chanced to meet with thee . 8. This bonny Lass did ogle me , and I could hardly pass her by , She began for to be so free , and sighing said , she'd die for me . 9. From her white hand a Ring she took , and said , My Lad this is for thee , She gave me a smiling look , and soon did yield to lig with me . 10. Then bonny Jenny pity take , I'm left that bonny Lass for your sake , Soon I began to fancy thee , then bonny Jenny lig with me . 11. All night in softest Wool we'll lie , and kiss as close as Cockles do ; Then we the Bliss of Love will try , in Summer and in Winter too . 12. How can you so fickle be to dote on all that you do see ? If I should yield to lig with thee thou soon would prove as false to me . 13. I'ld have all Lasses wiser grow , and not found Love to young Men show For before that I do yield to thee , I'll make you promise to marry me . 14. But yet alas ! for all her Art little Cupid shot a Dart , That she could not resist Love's Charms , but strait did yield to Jockey is Arms. Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . 