TO : The Weeping Lady : OR , The Fortune of WAR : CONTAINING Her Lamentation for the Loss of her Love , A Noble COMMANDER , WHO Was slave in the late Famous Battle of Landen , in Flanders . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . I Am and Unfortunate Lady this day ! All my Glory is blasted and gone to decay ; There is nothing but Clouds of black Sorrow appear , And the Tidings of Death which brings up the Rear : I have lost my dear Jewel which I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . And here I am left to bemoan his sad Fate ; At the Point of Despair , in a desperate State : There is none in the World now my Spirits can raise , Such a Torment I never felt before in my days ; Having lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . The Tidings was brought me , He fought in the Field , And when others gave back , he scorned to Yield ; Till at length in his Breast he received a Wound , And with which he fell dead from his Horse to the Ground . Thus I lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . This Tidings was like to a desperate Dart ; Is he gone ! then I cried , with a Sighs from my Heart ; And mine Eyes like two Fountains did straight overflow , For my Grief it was more than I could undergo ; Having lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . In Battle there is no Distinction between The right valiant Commander , the Noble and Mean ; In the Field by the force of a loud Cannonball , The Commander does with a poor Centinal fallen . I have lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He was slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . Before he went from me I did him advice , Nay , I begged and entreated with tears in mine Eyes , That he'd not go to Flanders lest he should be slave ; But he vowed he would venture while Life did remain . I have lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . The fortune of War has proved fatal to me , And to thousands and thousands of e'ry Degree ; For the Fatherless Children and Widows may weep , While a Harvest of Sorrows with me they do reap ; Who has lost me dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . His Warlike Deportment methinks I behold , When he shined in a Garb of embroidered Gold , Nay , and mounted upon his bold Palfery-grey , At the head of his Troops as they marched away : But I lost that dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . O! that in the stead of my Dear I had died , Or at least might have lain in the Grave by his side ; It were better then languishing in Grief and complain ; Though I weep I can never recall him again . I have lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Ang e [ l ] in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . TO : The Weeping Lady : OR , The Fortune of WAR : CONTAINING Her Lamentation for the Loss of her Love , A Noble COMMANDER , WHO Was slave in the late Famous Battle of Landen , in Flanders . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . I Am and Unfortunate Lady this day ! All my Glory is blasted and gone to decay ; There is nothing but Clouds of black Sorrow appear , And the Tidings of Death which brings up the Rear : I have lost my dear Jewel which I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . And here I am left to bemoan his sad Fate ; At the Point of Despair , in a desperate State : There is none in the World now my Spirits can raise , Such a Torment I never felt before in my days ; Having lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . The Tidings was brought me , He fought in the Field , And when others gave back , he scorned to Yield ; Till at length in his Breast he received a Wound , And with which he fell dead from his Horse to the Ground . Thus I lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . This Tidings was like to a desperate Dart ; Is he gone ! then I cried , with a Sighs from my Heart ; And mine Eyes like two Fountains did straight overflow , For my Grief it was more than I could undergo ; Having lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . In Battle there is no Distinction between The right valiant Commander , the Noble and Mean ; In the Field by the force of a loud Cannonball , The Commander does with a poor Centinal fallen . I have lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He was slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . Before he went from me I did him advice , Nay , I begged and entreated with tears in mine Eyes , That he'd not go to Flanders lest he should be slave ; But he vowed he would venture while Life did remain . I have lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . The fortune of War has proved fatal to me , And to thousands and thousands of e'ry Degree ; For the Fatherless Children and Widows may weep , While a Harvest of Sorrows with me they do reap ; Who has lost me dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . His Warlike Deportment methinks I behold , When he shined in a Garb of embroidered Gold , Nay , and mounted upon his bold Palfery-grey , At the head of his Troops as they marched away : But I lost that dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . O! that in the stead of my Dear I had died , Or at least might have lain in the Grave by his side ; It were better then languishing in Grief and complain ; Though I weep I can never recall him again . I have lost my dear Jewel whom I did adore , He is slave in the Wars , I shall never see him more . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Ang e [ l ] in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 