TO : The Ladies Lamentation , OR , THE Commanders last Farewell , Who Valiantly lost his Life in the late Engagement ; for the loss of whom his Loving Lady Laments . Tune of , Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . I . IN London lived a Squire , where He long enjoyed a Lady fair , At length he to the Wars must go , To face the proud insulting Foe . II While Sailing in the Royal Fleet , By which the French was fairly beatrice , It was his Fortune then to fallen In battle by a Cannon-Ball . III . The tidings came that he was slave , She wrung her hands and wept amain , And with lamenting cries , said she , My dear would I had died for thee . IV. What Joy or Pleasure can I have , While he lies sleeping in the Grave , In whom I placed my chief delight , All pleasure now has taken flight . V. He's gone , I never shall see him more , Behold the World cannot restore That fatal loss which I sustain , He now lies sleeping with the Slave . VI . The bloody wars by Land and Sea , Alas ! may well lamented be ; For while men do for Conquest strive , War parts the dearest Friends alive . VII . See women lose their Husbands here , And Parents too their Children dear : Thus while the Sword is drawn , we find , It causes grief to womenkind . VIII . By true experience have I found Some thousands are encompassed round , With grief and sorrow now this da'y , And I am so as well as they . IX . Mine eyes like streams & amp ; fountains flow , My heart's oppressed with grief and woe , The loss of my brave Hero bold , is more to me than Crowns of Gold . X. Had I and Earthly Diadem , I'de fr [ e ] ely give it now for him ; But had I that and ten times more , All this would not his Life restore . XI . The inward torment which I feel , I am not able to conceal : But to the world I here declare , My grief is more than I can bear . XII . Take hence my Jewels , Chains & amp ; Rings , Rich Diamonds , all such gawdy things , And Robes of Sable let me have , Now to go mourning to my Grave . XIII . Since thus I do in torment dwell , All Earthly glory now fare well , There's nothing steadfast here below , All things are turning too and from . XIV . Alas my splendid glory bright , Was in a moment blasted quite , And I in strange confusion hurled , There's nothing steadfast in the world . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . TO : The Ladies Lamentation , OR , THE Commanders last Farewell , Who Valiantly lost his Life in the late Engagement ; for the loss of whom his Loving Lady Laments . Tune of , Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . I . IN London lived a Squire , where He long enjoyed a Lady fair , At length he to the Wars must go , To face the proud insulting Foe . II While Sailing in the Royal Fleet , By which the French was fairly beatrice , It was his Fortune then to fallen In battle by a Cannon-Ball . III . The tidings came that he was slave , She wrung her hands and wept amain , And with lamenting cries , said she , My dear would I had died for thee . IV. What Joy or Pleasure can I have , While he lies sleeping in the Grave , In whom I placed my chief delight , All pleasure now has taken flight . V. He's gone , I never shall see him more , Behold the World cannot restore That fatal loss which I sustain , He now lies sleeping with the Slave . VI . The bloody wars by Land and Sea , Alas ! may well lamented be ; For while men do for Conquest strive , War parts the dearest Friends alive . VII . See women lose their Husbands here , And Parents too their Children dear : Thus while the Sword is drawn , we find , It causes grief to womenkind . VIII . By true experience have I found Some thousands are encompassed round , With grief and sorrow now this da'y , And I am so as well as they . IX . Mine eyes like streams & amp ; fountains flow , My heart's oppressed with grief and woe , The loss of my brave Hero bold , is more to me than Crowns of Gold . X. Had I and Earthly Diadem , I'de fr [ e ] ely give it now for him ; But had I that and ten times more , All this would not his Life restore . XI . The inward torment which I feel , I am not able to conceal : But to the world I here declare , My grief is more than I can bear . XII . Take hence my Jewels , Chains & amp ; Rings , Rich Diamonds , all such gawdy things , And Robes of Sable let me have , Now to go mourning to my Grave . XIII . Since thus I do in torment dwell , All Earthly glory now fare well , There's nothing steadfast here below , All things are turning too and from . XIV . Alas my splendid glory bright , Was in a moment blasted quite , And I in strange confusion hurled , There's nothing steadfast in the world . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 