TO : The Faithful Lovers , Farewell to the World : BEING A True Relation of a Serving Man in Soho , that Shot himself for Love of his Fellow Servant , the Cook Maid . To the Trne of , Chatam Town . YOung Lovers all , of each degree , I'de have you now for to draw near , While I rehearse a Tragedy , Of a young Man that Loved dear . This young Man lived in Soho , As many People well does know , He loved Betty a Cookmaid ; But she his Love with scorn Repaid . This young Man finding Cupids dart Had Wou [ n ] dead him unto the Heart , That he could never hap [ p ] y be , Unless in Betty is company . He was tormented Day and Night , That nothing could his Heart delight , For it was Betty , only she , That caused all his Misery . This young Man finding no redress , But still was more and more oppressed Because his Love he did conceal , And could not could not it Reveal . At last he was resolved in mind , To try if Betty would prove kind , And ease him quickly of his Pain , And grant him Love for Love again . To her he went immediately Still hoping she would soon comply , With bashful Face and Voice so low , He told this Maiden all his woe . My Love said he I am oppressed , This only you can give me Rest , And I hope that you will give Relief , And put and end to all my Grief . Away , found Fool ! she did reply , Your silly suit I must deny ; For I Love one with Riches Store , Therefore your Love I pray give over . What though I am a Servant Maid , A Servant I will never Wed ; For I a Shopkeeper will have , That will maintain me fine and brave . When Johnny herd this scornful Dame Requited his Love with proved disdain , His Heart was ready for to break , Yet could not answer make . Like one struck dumb from her he goes , To utter by himself his woes , And flung himself upon the Bed , And lay a while like one was dead . At last he did begin to speak , And sighed as if his Heart did break betty says , he for Love of you , Poor Johnny bids the World adieu . He god a Pistol then with speed , And shot himself with it indeed ; Some of the Servants herd the Gun And all in haste to him did Run . But Oh! alas , it was too late They could not , could not stop his fate ; For Death had seized every part , And peirsced this Lover to the Heart . But now I hear , for truth indeed , This scornful Maidens Heart does bleed , To think she should so cruel be To cause this young men Tragidey . LONDON : Printed by J.W. near Fleet-street . 1698. TO : The Faithful Lovers , Farewell to the World : BEING A True Relation of a Serving Man in Soho , that Shot himself for Love of his Fellow Servant , the Cook Maid . To the Trne of , Chatam Town . YOung Lovers all , of each degree , I'de have you now for to draw near , While I rehearse a Tragedy , Of a young Man that Loved dear . This young Man lived in Soho , As many People well does know , He loved Betty a Cookmaid ; But she his Love with scorn Repaid . This young Man finding Cupids dart Had Wou [ n ] dead him unto the Heart , That he could never hap [ p ] y be , Unless in Betty is company . He was tormented Day and Night , That nothing could his Heart delight , For it was Betty , only she , That caused all his Misery . This young Man finding no redress , But still was more and more oppressed Because his Love he did conceal , And could not could not it Reveal . At last he was resolved in mind , To try if Betty would prove kind , And ease him quickly of his Pain , And grant him Love for Love again . To her he went immediately Still hoping she would soon comply , With bashful Face and Voice so low , He told this Maiden all his woe . My Love said he I am oppressed , This only you can give me Rest , And I hope that you will give Relief , And put and end to all my Grief . Away , found Fool ! she did reply , Your silly suit I must deny ; For I Love one with Riches Store , Therefore your Love I pray give over . What though I am a Servant Maid , A Servant I will never Wed ; For I a Shopkeeper will have , That will maintain me fine and brave . When Johnny herd this scornful Dame Requited his Love with proved disdain , His Heart was ready for to break , Yet could not answer make . Like one struck dumb from her he goes , To utter by himself his woes , And flung himself upon the Bed , And lay a while like one was dead . At last he did begin to speak , And sighed as if his Heart did break betty says , he for Love of you , Poor Johnny bids the World adieu . He god a Pistol then with speed , And shot himself with it indeed ; Some of the Servants herd the Gun And all in haste to him did Run . But Oh! alas , it was too late They could not , could not stop his fate ; For Death had seized every part , And peirsced this Lover to the Heart . But now I hear , for truth indeed , This scornful Maidens Heart does bleed , To think she should so cruel be To cause this young men Tragidey . LONDON : Printed by J.W. near Fleet-street . 1698. 