TO : THE Valiant Soldiers last Farewell : OR , His dying Letter to his loving Lady Lucretia . To the Tune of What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to Order . I. FArewell Lucretia , my amorous Jewel , this dying Letter in Sorrow I send ; Fortune hath proved unconstant , nay cruel , bringing my Glory and Days to and end : that have ventured through Smoke , Flame and Fire , the Kingdom's Honour and Rights to regain , Am ready , now at the length to expire , alive thou never wilt behold me again . II With mournful Friends I am ever surrounded , whose Eyes like Fountains does flow night and day , Seeing their Leader so fatally wounded , that in this Life I no longer can stay ; T'herefore farewell , for alas ! I must leave thee , it's but a Folly to sighs and complain ; Let not this sorrowful Letter ever grieve thee , alive thou wilt never behold me again . III . My Loyal Duty was never neglected , the War with Courage I still did pursue ; Honour was all the Reward I expected , for the hard Service I ever went through : 'Twas for the good of King , Queen , and Nation , that I did fight on the wide Ocean Main , But now I languish without expectation ever alive to behold thee again . IV. France my true Courage could never keep under , though two to one we showed them fair play ; While the great Cannons were roarimg like Thunder I was the while in the midst of the Fray ; Yet I acknowledge it was but my Duty , the Nations Honour , and Rights to maintain ; But now Farewell my sweet amorous Beauty , alive I never shall behold thee again . V. Foes I have fought with , but never feared any , but with true Courage did always appear , And might I still be endued with as many Lives , as there's hours and days in the year , They should be all at K. William is Devotion , to fight his Enemies on the salt Main ; I'll venture still for the Kingdom's promotion , though I might never behold thee again . VI . Lady , I fallen by the hand of a Tory , who is the Actor of all Villainy ; Yet let me tell thee , I triumph and glory that in the Bed of True Honour I die : Therefore , my Dearest , let nothing offend thee many brave Soldiers beside me are slave ; May all the Blessings of Heaven attend thee , although I never behold thee again . VII . When the kind Waves shall be pleased to convey me over the Ocean to my Native shore , And near thy Lodgings , sweet Lady , shall lay me , it's not thy Tears that my Life can restore ; Therefore I'ld have thee be void of all Passion , seeing all sorrowful Sighs are in vain , My Life I lost for the good of the Nation ; therefore alive thou'lt never see me again . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . TO : THE Valiant Soldiers last Farewell : OR , His dying Letter to his loving Lady Lucretia . To the Tune of What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to Order . I. FArewell Lucretia , my amorous Jewel , this dying Letter in Sorrow I send ; Fortune hath proved unconstant , nay cruel , bringing my Glory and Days to and end : that have ventured through Smoke , Flame and Fire , the Kingdom's Honour and Rights to regain , Am ready , now at the length to expire , alive thou never wilt behold me again . II With mournful Friends I am ever surrounded , whose Eyes like Fountains does flow night and day , Seeing their Leader so fatally wounded , that in this Life I no longer can stay ; T'herefore farewell , for alas ! I must leave thee , it's but a Folly to sighs and complain ; Let not this sorrowful Letter ever grieve thee , alive thou wilt never behold me again . III . My Loyal Duty was never neglected , the War with Courage I still did pursue ; Honour was all the Reward I expected , for the hard Service I ever went through : 'Twas for the good of King , Queen , and Nation , that I did fight on the wide Ocean Main , But now I languish without expectation ever alive to behold thee again . IV. France my true Courage could never keep under , though two to one we showed them fair play ; While the great Cannons were roarimg like Thunder I was the while in the midst of the Fray ; Yet I acknowledge it was but my Duty , the Nations Honour , and Rights to maintain ; But now Farewell my sweet amorous Beauty , alive I never shall behold thee again . V. Foes I have fought with , but never feared any , but with true Courage did always appear , And might I still be endued with as many Lives , as there's hours and days in the year , They should be all at K. William is Devotion , to fight his Enemies on the salt Main ; I'll venture still for the Kingdom's promotion , though I might never behold thee again . VI . Lady , I fallen by the hand of a Tory , who is the Actor of all Villainy ; Yet let me tell thee , I triumph and glory that in the Bed of True Honour I die : Therefore , my Dearest , let nothing offend thee many brave Soldiers beside me are slave ; May all the Blessings of Heaven attend thee , although I never behold thee again . VII . When the kind Waves shall be pleased to convey me over the Ocean to my Native shore , And near thy Lodgings , sweet Lady , shall lay me , it's not thy Tears that my Life can restore ; Therefore I'ld have thee be void of all Passion , seeing all sorrowful Sighs are in vain , My Life I lost for the good of the Nation ; therefore alive thou'lt never see me again . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 