TO : The Despairing Lover : BEING A true Account of Joan Day , who shot herself with a Pistol , near Thame in Oxfordshire , on the 30th of May , 1698. To the Tune of The Ruined Virgin Licensed according to Order . COme Lovers all , and you shall hear , Near Thame , a Town in Oxfordshire , Upon the Thirtieth Day of May , A Virgin cast herself away . The Story's true which I do tell , As many Folks can witness well : She was entangled soar in Love , That nothing could her Grief remove . A Servingman had gained her Heart , She wounded was by Cupid is Dart ; But still she feared he was not true , Though Love did every Day renew . Oh! Jealousy ! A Cruel Thing , It often does Destruction bring : For now it may be truly said , It caused the Death of this poor Maid . For Day by Day she did suspect , That he at last would her r [ e ] j [ e ] ct : Her Countenance began to change , And often by herself would range . She sighed and sobbed , and often said , I basely am by Love betrayed , And I no longer will endure , [ s ] ince I can find no Hope of Cure . And thus at last it came to pass , She found a Pistol Charged was ? She smiled , and clapped it to her Heart , Cried , Now I'll ease me of my Smart . Farewell both high and low Degree , Perfidious Man farewell to Thee : For now I will , what ever ensue , Remove my Grief ; vain World adieu . My trembling Hand bids me forbear ; My Conscience starts , and Death does fear , But shall I be afraid to die ? I am resolved , No not I . And when she had these Words expressed , She did Discharge it at her Breast : The Pistol giving a Report , Unto the Place some did resort ; Where she lay Dead upon the Floor , And weltering in her Purple Gore : They stood a while and on her gazed , The dreadful sighed made them amazed . Her true Love does lament her case , That she should have so little Grace ; He soar does Weep , and beatrice his Breast , And Day and Night can take no Rest : He sighs and sobs , and makes great moan , And cries , Alas ! My Love is gone ; The Loss of her disturbs his Mind , No Ease , or Comfort he can find . I Charge you now true Lovers all , Take Warning by this Maiden's Fallen : Be not too violent in your Love , Oh [ h ] ! lest it should your Ruin prove . LONDON : Printed for J. Shooter . TO : The Despairing Lover : BEING A true Account of Joan Day , who shot herself with a Pistol , near Thame in Oxfordshire , on the 30th of May , 1698. To the Tune of The Ruined Virgin Licensed according to Order . COme Lovers all , and you shall hear , Near Thame , a Town in Oxfordshire , Upon the Thirtieth Day of May , A Virgin cast herself away . The Story's true which I do tell , As many Folks can witness well : She was entangled soar in Love , That nothing could her Grief remove . A Servingman had gained her Heart , She wounded was by Cupid is Dart ; But still she feared he was not true , Though Love did every Day renew . Oh! Jealousy ! A Cruel Thing , It often does Destruction bring : For now it may be truly said , It caused the Death of this poor Maid . For Day by Day she did suspect , That he at last would her r [ e ] j [ e ] ct : Her Countenance began to change , And often by herself would range . She sighed and sobbed , and often said , I basely am by Love betrayed , And I no longer will endure , [ s ] ince I can find no Hope of Cure . And thus at last it came to pass , She found a Pistol Charged was ? She smiled , and clapped it to her Heart , Cried , Now I'll ease me of my Smart . Farewell both high and low Degree , Perfidious Man farewell to Thee : For now I will , what ever ensue , Remove my Grief ; vain World adieu . My trembling Hand bids me forbear ; My Conscience starts , and Death does fear , But shall I be afraid to die ? I am resolved , No not I . And when she had these Words expressed , She did Discharge it at her Breast : The Pistol giving a Report , Unto the Place some did resort ; Where she lay Dead upon the Floor , And weltering in her Purple Gore : They stood a while and on her gazed , The dreadful sighed made them amazed . Her true Love does lament her case , That she should have so little Grace ; He soar does Weep , and beatrice his Breast , And Day and Night can take no Rest : He sighs and sobs , and makes great moan , And cries , Alas ! My Love is gone ; The Loss of her disturbs his Mind , No Ease , or Comfort he can find . I Charge you now true Lovers all , Take Warning by this Maiden's Fallen : Be not too violent in your Love , Oh [ h ] ! lest it should your Ruin prove . LONDON : Printed for J. Shooter . 