TO : THE Imprisoned COMMANDER : CONTAINING The Substance of a Letter , Written by his own Hand , at the City of Namur , in Flanders , TO HIS Honoured Lady in England . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . F Air beautiful Lady my love and delight , Here's a Letter which I in a Prison did write ; Yet my Jewel , although I am bared and c [ oh ] nfined , Let it never once grieve thee , or trouble thy mind : To the Foes of our Nation I'll never comply , Though at Namur ' s fair City in Prision I lie . It is not a Prision I valve or fear , Since the Fortune of War has obliged me , my Dear , Though my Body's Confined , yet my Soul is at large , And while life shall remain I'll my conscience discharge . To the Foes of our Nation I'll never comply , Though at Namur is fair City in Prison I lie . Thy Soldier with Sorrow can never be oppressed , While a Heart of true Courage here reigns in my breast , Which will raise my great Soul above trouble and care , They are Cowards and Fools that will seem to despair . To the Foes of our Nation I'll never comply , Though at Namur is fair City in Prison I lie . My Freedom once more I do hope to regain For to mount with our Forces , and fallen on amain ; We are not so much daunted as they may suppose , Having Courage and Conduct to follow our Foes : And I make no great question but to see them fly , Though at present in Namur a Prisoner I lie . It is not one Swallow a Summer can make , Neither can one lost Battle , Love , totally shake The invincible courage of Brittain , my Dear , We will charge them again fram the Front to the Rear ; Till the force of our Arms shall compel them to fly , Though at present in Namur a Prisoner I lie . Though double our Strength the French Army was found , Yet the true English Forces did scorn to g [ i ] we ground ; But like Hero's they charged them through fire and smoke , Till they gave them a sharp and a desperate stroke , Which our Enemy's Forces will never deny ; I have herd them in Namur , since here I did lie . Begar , said Monsieur , your bold Englatiers , they did make such a thundering noise in our ears : First day hallowed , and then they did fire amain Till some thousands among us , was slaughtered and slave : I am pleased to hear them still make this reply , As in Namur is fair City in Prison I lie . O never be daunted my Lady and Love , For I hope by the Blessing of Heaven above , When the Summer is ended to see thee once more , Whom I ever shall honour and dearly adore . From my Vows loving Lady I never will fly , Though in Namur is fair City I Prisoner lie . This Letter in private sweet Lady I send , By the Hand of a Merchant , my intimate Friend ; For no better a way , Dearest , could I contrive , To inform you that I was in Flanders alive : From my Vows loving Lady I never will fly , Though in Namur is fair City I Prisoner lie . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . TO : THE Imprisoned COMMANDER : CONTAINING The Substance of a Letter , Written by his own Hand , at the City of Namur , in Flanders , TO HIS Honoured Lady in England . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . F Air beautiful Lady my love and delight , Here's a Letter which I in a Prison did write ; Yet my Jewel , although I am bared and c [ oh ] nfined , Let it never once grieve thee , or trouble thy mind : To the Foes of our Nation I'll never comply , Though at Namur ' s fair City in Prision I lie . It is not a Prision I valve or fear , Since the Fortune of War has obliged me , my Dear , Though my Body's Confined , yet my Soul is at large , And while life shall remain I'll my conscience discharge . To the Foes of our Nation I'll never comply , Though at Namur is fair City in Prison I lie . Thy Soldier with Sorrow can never be oppressed , While a Heart of true Courage here reigns in my breast , Which will raise my great Soul above trouble and care , They are Cowards and Fools that will seem to despair . To the Foes of our Nation I'll never comply , Though at Namur is fair City in Prison I lie . My Freedom once more I do hope to regain For to mount with our Forces , and fallen on amain ; We are not so much daunted as they may suppose , Having Courage and Conduct to follow our Foes : And I make no great question but to see them fly , Though at present in Namur a Prisoner I lie . It is not one Swallow a Summer can make , Neither can one lost Battle , Love , totally shake The invincible courage of Brittain , my Dear , We will charge them again fram the Front to the Rear ; Till the force of our Arms shall compel them to fly , Though at present in Namur a Prisoner I lie . Though double our Strength the French Army was found , Yet the true English Forces did scorn to g [ i ] we ground ; But like Hero's they charged them through fire and smoke , Till they gave them a sharp and a desperate stroke , Which our Enemy's Forces will never deny ; I have herd them in Namur , since here I did lie . Begar , said Monsieur , your bold Englatiers , they did make such a thundering noise in our ears : First day hallowed , and then they did fire amain Till some thousands among us , was slaughtered and slave : I am pleased to hear them still make this reply , As in Namur is fair City in Prison I lie . O never be daunted my Lady and Love , For I hope by the Blessing of Heaven above , When the Summer is ended to see thee once more , Whom I ever shall honour and dearly adore . From my Vows loving Lady I never will fly , Though in Namur is fair City I Prisoner lie . This Letter in private sweet Lady I send , By the Hand of a Merchant , my intimate Friend ; For no better a way , Dearest , could I contrive , To inform you that I was in Flanders alive : From my Vows loving Lady I never will fly , Though in Namur is fair City I Prisoner lie . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . 