TO : And Excellent New song , CALLED , The False hearted young Man , OR , The Injured Maiden . To a pleasant new Tune : or , The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . WHy should not I complain on thee , Thus cruelly for using me ? When unto thee it is well known , In wronging me , in wronging me thou wrongest thy own . Hard is thy heart , harder than steel , Colder than ice which frost conjeal ; To the Gods above it is well known , My heart's more thine , my heart's more thine than it's my own . When first the youthful lad I see , O then he did appear to me And Angel , that does shine so bright ; But now I've lost , but now I've lost my hearts delight . [ I ] t's too much for a Maid to trust A young man's mercy and his just ; For I my self who sings this song , Can safely say , can safely say , he's done me wrong . Cursed be the time I did him see , Cursed be those eyes that looked on me ; Cursed be that flattering tongue I say , Which falsely stole , which falsely stole My heart away . How often he did swear and own , His Love was true to me alone , With tender kisses bound the vow [ ? ] er he proves false , yet he proves false , and is untrue . You Virgins beautiful and young , Take care of man's deluding tongue , They'll kiss and swear they love you too , Then court the next , then court the next . not minding you Him I did love would often cry : Give one kind look or else I die ; Then hug and kiss me in his arms , I thought he had , I thought he had a thousand charms . My tongue at first did give the lie , But yet I loved him tenderly , Which I to him at last did own , And gold we broke , and gold we broke , when it was known . Not gold nor vows could bind his love , The same he quickly did remove ; He's gone and wed another Maid , His perjured vows , his perjured vows my heart betrayed . Unto some lonely place I'll go And live where I may never know What it's to be deceived again , By any false , by any false and perjured man . Adieu , base one , for ever adieu , I'll never believe a man for you , And were all aid Mens of my mind , Since men prove false since men prove false we'd prove unkind . LONDON : Printed by and for A.M. 1697. TO : And Excellent New song , CALLED , The False hearted young Man , OR , The Injured Maiden . To a pleasant new Tune : or , The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . WHy should not I complain on thee , Thus cruelly for using me ? When unto thee it is well known , In wronging me , in wronging me thou wrongest thy own . Hard is thy heart , harder than steel , Colder than ice which frost conjeal ; To the Gods above it is well known , My heart's more thine , my heart's more thine than it's my own . When first the youthful lad I see , O then he did appear to me And Angel , that does shine so bright ; But now I've lost , but now I've lost my hearts delight . [ I ] t's too much for a Maid to trust A young man's mercy and his just ; For I my self who sings this song , Can safely say , can safely say , he's done me wrong . Cursed be the time I did him see , Cursed be those eyes that looked on me ; Cursed be that flattering tongue I say , Which falsely stole , which falsely stole My heart away . How often he did swear and own , His Love was true to me alone , With tender kisses bound the vow [ ? ] er he proves false , yet he proves false , and is untrue . You Virgins beautiful and young , Take care of man's deluding tongue , They'll kiss and swear they love you too , Then court the next , then court the next . not minding you Him I did love would often cry : Give one kind look or else I die ; Then hug and kiss me in his arms , I thought he had , I thought he had a thousand charms . My tongue at first did give the lie , But yet I loved him tenderly , Which I to him at last did own , And gold we broke , and gold we broke , when it was known . Not gold nor vows could bind his love , The same he quickly did remove ; He's gone and wed another Maid , His perjured vows , his perjured vows my heart betrayed . Unto some lonely place I'll go And live where I may never know What it's to be deceived again , By any false , by any false and perjured man . Adieu , base one , for ever adieu , I'll never believe a man for you , And were all aid Mens of my mind , Since men prove false since men prove false we'd prove unkind . LONDON : Printed by and for A.M. 1697. 