And ANSWER TO The Wronged LADY : OR , THE Young Nobleman's Dying LAMENTATION , FOR The LORD's Daughter of Leicestershire ; Who lately broke her Heart for the love of him : the Remembrance of which he laid to Heart , so that it cost him his Life also . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc WAs ever young Noble so tortured as I ? Under a guilty Conscience in sorrow I lie , Having wronged a Lady who did me adore , All the World is not able her Life to restore . Come release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . Most like a false Lover , I acted my part , For I having betrayed her young innocent heart , To another fair Beauty in love did I go , Which immediately proved her sad Overthrow . Now release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . This life is a torment which I cannot bear , Here is nothing but anguish and woeful despair , E'ry moment my Dearest runs fresh in my mind , Not and hour or minute of joy can I find : Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . Why did I expose her to sorrow and grief ? When it lay in my power to yield her relief . Now alas ! it's too late to recall her again ; I am left now to feel this sad torment and pain . Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in Grave by my Lady and Love . So soon as soft slumber ever closes mine eyes , I am seized with a frightful and sudden surprise , For methinks that I hear her sad passionate moan , So that I have no pleasure but torments alone : Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . Sometime in a Dream or a Vision I see , My fair Beautiful Lady stand weeping by me , Still entreating I'ld make now no longer delay , But to leave this vain World here and hasten away : Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . I slighted the Vows which between us had passed , Till I now am awakened by Conscience at last ; And my heart here with sorrow is ready to break , I can part with the Joys of the World for her sake Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . I valve no Beautiful Creature alive , Nay , nor would I here longer my Lady survive , Let the arrows that wounded the heart of my Dear Do the like for her Lover who languishing hear , Would expire , and begs of the Powers above , For to lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . The flames of a Fever does burn in my breast , Let me go to that injured Soul which does rest In the Regions of Joy , where sweet pleasure does flow I am weary of living , now , now let me go : Oh release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . And ANSWER TO The Wronged LADY : OR , THE Young Nobleman's Dying LAMENTATION , FOR The LORD's Daughter of Leicestershire ; Who lately broke her Heart for the love of him : the Remembrance of which he laid to Heart , so that it cost him his Life also . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc WAs ever young Noble so tortured as I ? Under a guilty Conscience in sorrow I lie , Having wronged a Lady who did me adore , All the World is not able her Life to restore . Come release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . Most like a false Lover , I acted my part , For I having betrayed her young innocent heart , To another fair Beauty in love did I go , Which immediately proved her sad Overthrow . Now release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . This life is a torment which I cannot bear , Here is nothing but anguish and woeful despair , E'ry moment my Dearest runs fresh in my mind , Not and hour or minute of joy can I find : Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . Why did I expose her to sorrow and grief ? When it lay in my power to yield her relief . Now alas ! it's too late to recall her again ; I am left now to feel this sad torment and pain . Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in Grave by my Lady and Love . So soon as soft slumber ever closes mine eyes , I am seized with a frightful and sudden surprise , For methinks that I hear her sad passionate moan , So that I have no pleasure but torments alone : Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . Sometime in a Dream or a Vision I see , My fair Beautiful Lady stand weeping by me , Still entreating I'ld make now no longer delay , But to leave this vain World here and hasten away : Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . I slighted the Vows which between us had passed , Till I now am awakened by Conscience at last ; And my heart here with sorrow is ready to break , I can part with the Joys of the World for her sake Then release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . I valve no Beautiful Creature alive , Nay , nor would I here longer my Lady survive , Let the arrows that wounded the heart of my Dear Do the like for her Lover who languishing hear , Would expire , and begs of the Powers above , For to lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . The flames of a Fever does burn in my breast , Let me go to that injured Soul which does rest In the Regions of Joy , where sweet pleasure does flow I am weary of living , now , now let me go : Oh release me , release me you Powers above , Let me lie in the Grave by my Lady and Love . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 