The Covetous-minded Parents : OR , The Languishing young Gentlewoman Whose Friends would have her marry and old Miser for the sake of his Gold , which [ h ] she utterly refused to do , resolving to be true to the first . Tune is , Farewell my dearest Dear . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Damosel fair of blooming Beauty ; Therefore I do declare it is my Duty My Parents to obey , Father and Mother ; They have me Marry Grey , I love another . Gray hath Five Thousand Pound , in ready Money ; There Riches does abound , but yet my Honey Whom I shall still adore , brings Love and Pleasure , The which I valve more than Gold and [ TO ] reasure . Good God what shall I do , whom shall I marry ? Father and Mother too constantly weary Their Child to entertain this wretched Miser ; For which they are to blame , would they were wiser . What are those Bags of Gold without a Blessing ? My Dearest Love behold he is possessing My Heart and all that's dear , how can I leave him ? Heaven may prove severe if I deceive him . Before my Vow I'll break , Death shall destroy me : I will no other take , he must enjoy me . Though Friends continually scorn and deride me ; With him I'll live and die , what ever betide me . Though Gray hath Riches store , my Dear's above him ; Nay , had he ten times more , I could not love him : His Gold I count but dross , dregs of confusion , Which often proves a cross in the conclusion . Gold , Pearl and Silver bright I never desire ; Give me my hearts delight , whom I admire ; That Treasure I'ld enjoy , my sweetest Jewel : What grief will me destroy ? Parents are cruel . Though tedious Nights I spend in mournful weeping ; My Heart , entire Friend , thou hast in keeping : Bear up a cheerful mind , let nothing grieve thee ; If I was not confined , I'ld never leave thee . When my free liberty once I recover ; I'll quickly be with thee my loyal lover . Though now with bitter moan , grief does annoy me ; No Man but thee alone ever shall enjoy me . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Covetous-minded Parents : OR , The Languishing young Gentlewoman Whose Friends would have her marry and old Miser for the sake of his Gold , which [ h ] she utterly refused to do , resolving to be true to the first . Tune is , Farewell my dearest Dear . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Damosel fair of blooming Beauty ; Therefore I do declare it is my Duty My Parents to obey , Father and Mother ; They have me Marry Grey , I love another . Gray hath Five Thousand Pound , in ready Money ; There Riches does abound , but yet my Honey Whom I shall still adore , brings Love and Pleasure , The which I valve more than Gold and [ TO ] reasure . Good God what shall I do , whom shall I marry ? Father and Mother too constantly weary Their Child to entertain this wretched Miser ; For which they are to blame , would they were wiser . What are those Bags of Gold without a Blessing ? My Dearest Love behold he is possessing My Heart and all that's dear , how can I leave him ? Heaven may prove severe if I deceive him . Before my Vow I'll break , Death shall destroy me : I will no other take , he must enjoy me . Though Friends continually scorn and deride me ; With him I'll live and die , what ever betide me . Though Gray hath Riches store , my Dear's above him ; Nay , had he ten times more , I could not love him : His Gold I count but dross , dregs of confusion , Which often proves a cross in the conclusion . Gold , Pearl and Silver bright I never desire ; Give me my hearts delight , whom I admire ; That Treasure I'ld enjoy , my sweetest Jewel : What grief will me destroy ? Parents are cruel . Though tedious Nights I spend in mournful weeping ; My Heart , entire Friend , thou hast in keeping : Bear up a cheerful mind , let nothing grieve thee ; If I was not confined , I'ld never leave thee . When my free liberty once I recover ; I'll quickly be with thee my loyal lover . Though now with bitter moan , grief does annoy me ; No Man but thee alone ever shall enjoy me . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 