TO : Mr. MOOR the TRIPE-MAN's Sorrowful Lamentation FOR Clipping and Coining ; With and Account of his Contrivance at his Country-House at Tripe-Hall near Hounsloe ; where , in his Garden , he had made a Trap-door , whereon grew both Goosberry-Trees and Currant-Trees to prevent the discovery thereof , but his Tongue afterwards made known what he had cunningly contrived ; wherein was found and En - gine or Money - M ill for Coining , for which he was Tried this Sessions , and found Guilty thereof . To the Tune of , The Spinning-Wheel . AH , Woe is me that I was born , For I am now become the scorn Of all that did me once adore , Nay of the Rich and of the Poor : They all against the Tripe-Man cry , For Coining he deserves to die . O why did I for Riches crave , So hastily the same to have . Had I the Tripe-Trade only known , And left the Coyning-Trade alone , Then I no Danger should have run ; But Coining has me quite undone . It's true I did great Riches gain , In Grandure did my self maintain ; Although I was of mean degree , Yet thousands did admire me : For gold and silver I had store , But now I never shall Coin more . In Peters-street where I did dwell , My Neighbours all did know full well , That I had boasted many a time , To pave the Street with Silver Coin ; And oftentimes I them had told , My Yard too I could pave with gold . My Country-house I called Tripe-Hall , Which was indeed admired by all ; Where once a week I still did go , But for what use there's none did know Nor had not to this day i'm sure , Had I not told of the Trap-door . Under my Garden I had made A Vault to keep the Coyning-Trade : A Trap-door in the Garden too , On which Currans & amp ; Goosberys grew , Where many Neighbours oft have been And yet this Trap-door never was seen . But now comes all my woe and grief , I them fast in Newgate like a Thief ; And at the Bar was fain to stand , For Coining I held up my hand . And of the indictment guilty found , Which does my Senses all confound . Had I the Tripe-Trade used alone , And never the Coining Money known , Of making Guineas and Half Crowns , Till I was worth some thousand pounds , Then I from trouble had lived free , But now for Coining I must die . Now Brother Tripe-Men all take care , lest Riches draw you in a snare , I mean Clipping and Coining too , As hundreds in this Town does doe : But yet ere many years are past , There's few but what are caught at last . Now Clippers , ay , and Coiners all , Changer's of M oney , great and small , Leave off your Trade ere iT be too late , lest you all share of my hard fate I once thought none so safe as I , But now for Coining I must die . Printed and Sold by Charles Barnet . TO : Mr. MOOR the TRIPE-MAN's Sorrowful Lamentation FOR Clipping and Coining ; With and Account of his Contrivance at his Country-House at Tripe-Hall near Hounsloe ; where , in his Garden , he had made a Trap-door , whereon grew both Goosberry-Trees and Currant-Trees to prevent the discovery thereof , but his Tongue afterwards made known what he had cunningly contrived ; wherein was found and En - gine or Money - M ill for Coining , for which he was Tried this Sessions , and found Guilty thereof . To the Tune of , The Spinning-Wheel . AH , Woe is me that I was born , For I am now become the scorn Of all that did me once adore , Nay of the Rich and of the Poor : They all against the Tripe-Man cry , For Coining he deserves to die . O why did I for Riches crave , So hastily the same to have . Had I the Tripe-Trade only known , And left the Coyning-Trade alone , Then I no Danger should have run ; But Coining has me quite undone . It's true I did great Riches gain , In Grandure did my self maintain ; Although I was of mean degree , Yet thousands did admire me : For gold and silver I had store , But now I never shall Coin more . In Peters-street where I did dwell , My Neighbours all did know full well , That I had boasted many a time , To pave the Street with Silver Coin ; And oftentimes I them had told , My Yard too I could pave with gold . My Country-house I called Tripe-Hall , Which was indeed admired by all ; Where once a week I still did go , But for what use there's none did know Nor had not to this day i'm sure , Had I not told of the Trap-door . Under my Garden I had made A Vault to keep the Coyning-Trade : A Trap-door in the Garden too , On which Currans & amp ; Goosberys grew , Where many Neighbours oft have been And yet this Trap-door never was seen . But now comes all my woe and grief , I them fast in Newgate like a Thief ; And at the Bar was fain to stand , For Coining I held up my hand . And of the indictment guilty found , Which does my Senses all confound . Had I the Tripe-Trade used alone , And never the Coining Money known , Of making Guineas and Half Crowns , Till I was worth some thousand pounds , Then I from trouble had lived free , But now for Coining I must die . Now Brother Tripe-Men all take care , lest Riches draw you in a snare , I mean Clipping and Coining too , As hundreds in this Town does doe : But yet ere many years are past , There's few but what are caught at last . Now Clippers , ay , and Coiners all , Changer's of M oney , great and small , Leave off your Trade ere iT be too late , lest you all share of my hard fate I once thought none so safe as I , But now for Coining I must die . Printed and Sold by Charles Barnet . 