TO : King William's Welcome TO IRELAND . WITH His joyful Reception by the Noble Commanders , and also his Royal Speech and Bounty to his Protestant Army . To the Tune of My sweet Corydon . I. BOys , let Healths go round , with Knees to the Ground , to great William our Crowned King ; Who is Landed where French and Rebels are , from whom all Glory may he bring : There's no fear but they shall feel his Rage ; When he do's engage , with that Tory Crew , For King William is Train , will regain all their Towns and Castles too . II Over the Marble Main our King is gone again , to the Irish Wars , brave Boys ; Fine soft pleasant Gales filled his swelling Sails , which was a Grief to the Dear-Joys , Knowing they should all be routed now , Teague must to the Blow , Fighting will not do : Great William's Train will regain all their Towns and Castles too . III . When he came on Shore , how the Guns did roar , and the Trumpets did sweetly found ; The whole Army through , shouts they did renew , making the Elements resound : Heavens now preserve our King they cried , Down with Romish Pride , Rebels we'll pursue , With a Warlike Train , and regain all their Towns and Castles too . IV. All true Courage then , raise the Hearts of Men , that like Fountains their Joys did flow ; Each resolve to die , or make Romans fly , and that the Rebels soon shall know ; For King William now in Ireland With his Armed Band , Courage will renew , That his Warlike Train shall regain all their Towns and Castles too . V. Then his Majesty walked round to see how his Army did then appear , Which was stout and brave , such as he would have , to whom he said , My Lads , never fear , For when to the Field of Mars we go , We shall chase the Foe , And the Slaves pursue ; For my Warlike Train shall regain all their Towns and Castles too . VI . Then he threw them Gold , saying , Now behold ! drink and merry be , Soldiers all ; France shall feel my Rage , soon we'll clear the Stage . Charge them with Fire , Sword , and Ball ; Trumpets sounding , Warlike Drums shall beatrice , Making Foes retreat , While we them pursue , With my Warlike Train , and regain all their Towns and Castles too . VII . Then a Loyal Shout went the Camp throughout , when our Monarch this Speech had made , All resolve to die [ in ] [ his ] Company , before a Conquest [ sh ] ould be made By that proud insulting Foe of France , Let us all advance , and our strength renew , Then our Warlike Train will regain every Town and Castle too . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Backed : King William's Welcome TO IRELAND . WITH His joyful Reception by the Noble Commanders , and also his Royal Speech and Bounty to his Protestant Army . To the Tune of My sweet Corydon . I. BOys , let Healths go round , with Knees to the Ground , to great William our Crowned King ; Who is Landed where French and Rebels are , from whom all Glory may he bring : There's no fear but they shall feel his Rage ; When he do's engage , with that Tory Crew , For King William is Train , will regain all their Towns and Castles too . II Over the Marble Main our King is gone again , to the Irish Wars , brave Boys ; Fine soft pleasant Gales filled his swelling Sails , which was a Grief to the Dear-Joys , Knowing they should all be routed now , Teague must to the Blow , Fighting will not do : Great William's Train will regain all their Towns and Castles too . III . When he came on Shore , how the Guns did roar , and the Trumpets did sweetly found ; The whole Army through , shouts they did renew , making the Elements resound : Heavens now preserve our King they cried , Down with Romish Pride , Rebels we'll pursue , With a Warlike Train , and regain all their Towns and Castles too . IV. All true Courage then , raise the Hearts of Men , that like Fountains their Joys did flow ; Each resolve to die , or make Romans fly , and that the Rebels soon shall know ; For King William now in Ireland With his Armed Band , Courage will renew , That his Warlike Train shall regain all their Towns and Castles too . V. Then his Majesty walked round to see how his Army did then appear , Which was stout and brave , such as he would have , to whom he said , My Lads , never fear , For when to the Field of Mars we go , We shall chase the Foe , And the Slaves pursue ; For my Warlike Train shall regain all their Towns and Castles too . VI . Then he threw them Gold , saying , Now behold ! drink and merry be , Soldiers all ; France shall feel my Rage , soon we'll clear the Stage . Charge them with Fire , Sword , and Ball ; Trumpets sounding , Warlike Drums shall beatrice , Making Foes retreat , While we them pursue , With my Warlike Train , and regain all their Towns and Castles too . VII . Then a Loyal Shout went the Camp throughout , when our Monarch this Speech had made , All resolve to die [ in ] [ his ] Company , before a Conquest [ sh ] ould be made By that proud insulting Foe of France , Let us all advance , and our strength renew , Then our Warlike Train will regain every Town and Castle too . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back 