TO : And Excellent New Song Called The CRUEL LOVER , OR , THE Constant Virgins Lamentation . To a pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . O my dearest Dear , be not so severe , do not , do not , do not me disdain ; I do implore , I can love no more , Constant L overs should be loved again . My dear to you my love is true , Therefore do not , do not , me disdain , Here I weeping lie , and for mercy cry , Hoping that you will come to ease my pain . O Unhappy Fate , now I mourn too late ; I am left my sorrows to deplore , Since my dear is gone whom I doted on , I shall never , never see him more . Oft he swore to be constant unto me , And that he would never cruel prove , But with grief I find he has changed his mind , For he now has god another love . My cruel L over never would give over , TO ill that he had god my heart from me : O cruel creature to abuse good nature , And to rob me of my liberty . Cupid shoot and arrow , quickly pierce him thorough , Make him make him feel what I endure , For it's only he that caused my misery , And this he alone can kill or cure . He has me forsaken , and has another taken , Cause that she has god more gold that I , Oh you powers of love that does rule above , Punish punish him for Perjury . M aidens all take care , of men beware , For they will protest most true to be ; And if you prove kind , they will change mind And will court the very next they see . I oppressed with Grief , can have no Relief , Since my dearest dear is fled from me : Thus I find in vain , still I may complain , For he will not , will not pity me . Death come shoot your dart , ease me of my smart , Do not do not let me live in pain ; Since my dears untrue , to the world I bid adieu , And to all false men thats left behind . Printed for Charles Barnet , 1697. TO : And Excellent New Song Called The CRUEL LOVER , OR , THE Constant Virgins Lamentation . To a pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . O my dearest Dear , be not so severe , do not , do not , do not me disdain ; I do implore , I can love no more , Constant L overs should be loved again . My dear to you my love is true , Therefore do not , do not , me disdain , Here I weeping lie , and for mercy cry , Hoping that you will come to ease my pain . O Unhappy Fate , now I mourn too late ; I am left my sorrows to deplore , Since my dear is gone whom I doted on , I shall never , never see him more . Oft he swore to be constant unto me , And that he would never cruel prove , But with grief I find he has changed his mind , For he now has god another love . My cruel L over never would give over , TO ill that he had god my heart from me : O cruel creature to abuse good nature , And to rob me of my liberty . Cupid shoot and arrow , quickly pierce him thorough , Make him make him feel what I endure , For it's only he that caused my misery , And this he alone can kill or cure . He has me forsaken , and has another taken , Cause that she has god more gold that I , Oh you powers of love that does rule above , Punish punish him for Perjury . M aidens all take care , of men beware , For they will protest most true to be ; And if you prove kind , they will change mind And will court the very next they see . I oppressed with Grief , can have no Relief , Since my dearest dear is fled from me : Thus I find in vain , still I may complain , For he will not , will not pity me . Death come shoot your dart , ease me of my smart , Do not do not let me live in pain ; Since my dears untrue , to the world I bid adieu , And to all false men thats left behind . Printed for Charles Barnet , 1697. 