TO : And Excellent New SONG ; Called ; The Young Man IN LOVES POUND : OR TO HE Unkind Maiden . To and Excellent New Tune . With Allowance . Frantic Love to what extteams does my furious passion drive me , Those Iris Lips and golden Streams , the one does kill , the other revives me , All my TO thoughts are idle Dreams . Fancy bids me love but one , Cupid says it's out of season , Was ever Man tormented so , beyond the bounds of Love or Reason , TO he one says Aye , the other No. Ladies I have seen great store Beauty's I have Courted many , I've turned them round & amp ; look them over , yet never left my Heart with any , TO ill I saw thy Face so fair . When a Beauty I have seen , I did Court her in my Passion , And if she peevish once had been , I could as soon be in her Fashion , I could L ove or let alone . But I now have met with one , TO hat has set my Heart on Fire , Which is the cause I am undone , for her that grants not my Desire , For no kindness she will own . Since her Beauty is so great , and her Heart has no Compassion , TO oh a youthful Lad whose Fate must end his days all in Distraction , And die a Victom at your Feet . TO oh the Rivers I'll complain , to the Rocks , and to the Fountains , TO hey're all senseless of my Pains . so are the Hills , the Dales , the Mountains , And alack what shall I do . To some Desert I will go , and my Life in Silence languish , Where no Creature ever shall know , the Pains , the Torments , & amp ; the Anguish TO his fair one makes me undergo . To Cupid then who flung this Dart , and made me be a slavish Lover , Wound this fair one to the Heart , till she her Passion does discover , And owns her Love to ease my S mars . Say she'll give but one kind S mile , 'twill cause me live some years the longer But if her Love she grants a while , instead of Age I must go younger , For it's her can Save or Kill . Printed and Sold by T. More , 1692. TO : And Excellent New SONG ; Called ; The Young Man IN LOVES POUND : OR TO HE Unkind Maiden . To and Excellent New Tune . With Allowance . Frantic Love to what extteams does my furious passion drive me , Those Iris Lips and golden Streams , the one does kill , the other revives me , All my TO thoughts are idle Dreams . Fancy bids me love but one , Cupid says it's out of season , Was ever Man tormented so , beyond the bounds of Love or Reason , TO he one says Aye , the other No. Ladies I have seen great store Beauty's I have Courted many , I've turned them round & amp ; look them over , yet never left my Heart with any , TO ill I saw thy Face so fair . When a Beauty I have seen , I did Court her in my Passion , And if she peevish once had been , I could as soon be in her Fashion , I could L ove or let alone . But I now have met with one , TO hat has set my Heart on Fire , Which is the cause I am undone , for her that grants not my Desire , For no kindness she will own . Since her Beauty is so great , and her Heart has no Compassion , TO oh a youthful Lad whose Fate must end his days all in Distraction , And die a Victom at your Feet . TO oh the Rivers I'll complain , to the Rocks , and to the Fountains , TO hey're all senseless of my Pains . so are the Hills , the Dales , the Mountains , And alack what shall I do . To some Desert I will go , and my Life in Silence languish , Where no Creature ever shall know , the Pains , the Torments , & amp ; the Anguish TO his fair one makes me undergo . To Cupid then who flung this Dart , and made me be a slavish Lover , Wound this fair one to the Heart , till she her Passion does discover , And owns her Love to ease my S mars . Say she'll give but one kind S mile , 'twill cause me live some years the longer But if her Love she grants a while , instead of Age I must go younger , For it's her can Save or Kill . Printed and Sold by T. More , 1692. 