The Bristol Tragedy : OR , THE Unfortunate Bride and Bridegroom , He being Pressed away on the Day of Marriage , and losing his Life in the late Expedition , with Grief and Sorrow it broke the Heart of this young Bride , to the unspeakable Grief of her Friends and Relations . To the Tune of , The Languishing Swain , etc Licensed according to Order . ATtend you Loyal Lovers all , A sad Relation here I shall Give of two faithful Lovers dear , To whom the Fates was most severe . These Lovers did in Bristow live , Of whom a just Account I'll give ; The one a Merchant's Daughter fair , Whose Beauty shined beyond compare . And he wealthy Squire's Son , Who had her Love and Favour wone ; Likewise their Friends were satisfied , In making her his lawful Bride . The Day appointed came at last , That they were to be linked fast , In wedlock Bonds of golden Love , Which none but Death could ever remove . The Morning did with joy appear , But Sorrow soon brought up the Rear , Fortune was most unkind that day , He for the Seas was Pressed away . No kind of Favour they afford , But hurried him straitways on board , And would not suffer him to send , One Letter to his dearest Friend . But at the length they came to know , That he was gone to face the Foe ; And then this fair young charming Bride , She sighed , she wrung her hands and cried , What could they take my Dear away ? And just upon my Wedding-day ; Was ever such Cruelty before ? Farewell , I never shall see thee more . Continually she did lament , Her Nights and Days in Tears was spent , No words of Comfort would she hear , From Friends or loving Parents dear . With bitter Sobs , she cried , I know That he can never undergo The Hardships of the roaring Seas , Who all his Lifetime lived at Ease . Now if my dearest Love shall Die , His Blood will on their Conscience lie , Who did by Violence alone , Compel my Dearest from his own . My Thoughts are in Confusion hurled , Farewell the Pleasures of the World , In Tears of Sorrow will I Mourn , Until his happy safe Return . At length a fatal Letter came , To this young Bride and Bristow Dame ; So soon as she the Lines beheld , She found that he near France was killed . Her Colour then did come and go , Like Fountains her fair Eyes did flow ; Her Parents they did likewise weep , For Life in her they could not keep . Her fainting Fits increased so fast , That with a dying Groan at last , No other Words than these she spoke , Farewell , farewell , my Heart is broke . Her Friends and Parents did lament , With Sighs and Tears of Discontent , As having lost their Darling dear , Their only Joy and Comfort here . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . The Bristol Tragedy : OR , THE Unfortunate Bride and Bridegroom , He being Pressed away on the Day of Marriage , and losing his Life in the late Expedition , with Grief and Sorrow it broke the Heart of this young Bride , to the unspeakable Grief of her Friends and Relations . To the Tune of , The Languishing Swain , etc Licensed according to Order . ATtend you Loyal Lovers all , A sad Relation here I shall Give of two faithful Lovers dear , To whom the Fates was most severe . These Lovers did in Bristow live , Of whom a just Account I'll give ; The one a Merchant's Daughter fair , Whose Beauty shined beyond compare . And he wealthy Squire's Son , Who had her Love and Favour wone ; Likewise their Friends were satisfied , In making her his lawful Bride . The Day appointed came at last , That they were to be linked fast , In wedlock Bonds of golden Love , Which none but Death could ever remove . The Morning did with joy appear , But Sorrow soon brought up the Rear , Fortune was most unkind that day , He for the Seas was Pressed away . No kind of Favour they afford , But hurried him straitways on board , And would not suffer him to send , One Letter to his dearest Friend . But at the length they came to know , That he was gone to face the Foe ; And then this fair young charming Bride , She sighed , she wrung her hands and cried , What could they take my Dear away ? And just upon my Wedding-day ; Was ever such Cruelty before ? Farewell , I never shall see thee more . Continually she did lament , Her Nights and Days in Tears was spent , No words of Comfort would she hear , From Friends or loving Parents dear . With bitter Sobs , she cried , I know That he can never undergo The Hardships of the roaring Seas , Who all his Lifetime lived at Ease . Now if my dearest Love shall Die , His Blood will on their Conscience lie , Who did by Violence alone , Compel my Dearest from his own . My Thoughts are in Confusion hurled , Farewell the Pleasures of the World , In Tears of Sorrow will I Mourn , Until his happy safe Return . At length a fatal Letter came , To this young Bride and Bristow Dame ; So soon as she the Lines beheld , She found that he near France was killed . Her Colour then did come and go , Like Fountains her fair Eyes did flow ; Her Parents they did likewise weep , For Life in her they could not keep . Her fainting Fits increased so fast , That with a dying Groan at last , No other Words than these she spoke , Farewell , farewell , my Heart is broke . Her Friends and Parents did lament , With Sighs and Tears of Discontent , As having lost their Darling dear , Their only Joy and Comfort here . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . 