THE LONDON TRAGEDY : OR , THE True Lover's Miserable Misfortunes : BEING And Account of a Mercer's Daughter who broke her Heart for the Love of her Father's eldest PRENTICE , who of - ter her Death Drowned himself in Despair . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc IN London there lives a rich Mercer by Trade , Who had one only Daughter a beautiful Maid , And unfortunate Damsel as it will appear , When this tragical Ditty at large you shall hear ; For the Arrows of Cupid had wounded her soar , Yet unknown to the Person whom she did adore . Her Father's head Prentice , sweet William by Name , Was beloved by this Damsel , a secret flame Having kindled itself in her ivory Breast , She could never enjoy one true Minute of rest , But in private she'd Weep and make pitiful Moan , Yet her Love to sweet William was clearly unknown . Then ringing her hands , Oh! she often did cry , There was never poor Soul so unhappy as I , Who am Languishing now at the point of Despair , For my Grief it is more then I'am able to bear ; In passion of Love such sad torments I feel , Which I now am not able the least to conceal . I now am a Captive , though one I was free , It was Cupid that played the harsh Tyrant with me ; Having wounded my Heart in a silent repose , Like a Lo [ v ] er distracted I straightways arose ; When my soft golden Trusses in passion I tore , For I never had suffered such torment before . I feel how my languishing Spirits do faint , Yet it is but a [ f ] olly to make my complaint ; There's no pleasure or joy in the World I behold , Therefore take hence my Robes of embroidered Gold , As a Mourner this day to my Chamber I'll take , For the Fates has decreed I shall die for his sake . Her Parents with Sorrow began to look sad , For she was their dear Darling and all that they had ; Learned Doctors was sent for to yield her relief , But they knew not the absolute cause of her Grief : Nay , she told them they could not her Sorrows remove For she languishing lay in a Fever of Love . To her loving Mother , she then did Reply , Let me see my sweet William , and then let me Die . He came to her in Love without longer delay , But it proved too late , she was dying away ; Ay , and these was the very last Words which she spoke Fare you well loving William , my Heart it is broke . Now when she was Dead , he was troubled in Mind , And could never one Day of true Happiness find , For he loved her as dear as he did his own Life , But was loath to presume to seek after a Wife Till his time was expir worser , and then 'twas too late ; He was left to bemoan her unfortunate State . Like one that was Frantic he walked too and throw , On the Bank of a River where Tides they did flow , Crying out , with a sighs , Since she's gone to the Grave I will here built my Tomb in a watery Wave : From the Bank to the River his Body he threw , Where he bid all the World and his Sorrows adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . THE LONDON TRAGEDY : OR , THE True Lover's Miserable Misfortunes : BEING And Account of a Mercer's Daughter who broke her Heart for the Love of her Father's eldest PRENTICE , who of - ter her Death Drowned himself in Despair . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc IN London there lives a rich Mercer by Trade , Who had one only Daughter a beautiful Maid , And unfortunate Damsel as it will appear , When this tragical Ditty at large you shall hear ; For the Arrows of Cupid had wounded her soar , Yet unknown to the Person whom she did adore . Her Father's head Prentice , sweet William by Name , Was beloved by this Damsel , a secret flame Having kindled itself in her ivory Breast , She could never enjoy one true Minute of rest , But in private she'd Weep and make pitiful Moan , Yet her Love to sweet William was clearly unknown . Then ringing her hands , Oh! she often did cry , There was never poor Soul so unhappy as I , Who am Languishing now at the point of Despair , For my Grief it is more then I'am able to bear ; In passion of Love such sad torments I feel , Which I now am not able the least to conceal . I now am a Captive , though one I was free , It was Cupid that played the harsh Tyrant with me ; Having wounded my Heart in a silent repose , Like a Lo [ v ] er distracted I straightways arose ; When my soft golden Trusses in passion I tore , For I never had suffered such torment before . I feel how my languishing Spirits do faint , Yet it is but a [ f ] olly to make my complaint ; There's no pleasure or joy in the World I behold , Therefore take hence my Robes of embroidered Gold , As a Mourner this day to my Chamber I'll take , For the Fates has decreed I shall die for his sake . Her Parents with Sorrow began to look sad , For she was their dear Darling and all that they had ; Learned Doctors was sent for to yield her relief , But they knew not the absolute cause of her Grief : Nay , she told them they could not her Sorrows remove For she languishing lay in a Fever of Love . To her loving Mother , she then did Reply , Let me see my sweet William , and then let me Die . He came to her in Love without longer delay , But it proved too late , she was dying away ; Ay , and these was the very last Words which she spoke Fare you well loving William , my Heart it is broke . Now when she was Dead , he was troubled in Mind , And could never one Day of true Happiness find , For he loved her as dear as he did his own Life , But was loath to presume to seek after a Wife Till his time was expir worser , and then 'twas too late ; He was left to bemoan her unfortunate State . Like one that was Frantic he walked too and throw , On the Bank of a River where Tides they did flow , Crying out , with a sighs , Since she's gone to the Grave I will here built my Tomb in a watery Wave : From the Bank to the River his Body he threw , Where he bid all the World and his Sorrows adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . 