Love Overthrown . The Young Man's Misery ; And the MAID'S RUINE : Being a True Relation , How a Beautiful Herefordshire Damsel ( who coming to Live in London , and being greatly Beloved by her Master's Son ) was , by her Mistress , Sold to Virginia : And of the Great Lamentation her Disconsolate Lover makes for her . To the Tune of All happy Times when free from Love , etc TO Here was a Maiden Fair and Clear , The which came out of Herefordshire , A Serving-Maid now for to be , That fitted best to her Degree . Her Skin the Lily did invite , To try which was the better White : Her Cheeks were of Vermilion Read , Like fragrant Beds of Roses spread . At length this fair Damsel came , As Servant , to live in the Strand , With a Tradesman of great Renown , Whose Wealth and Riches did abound . This Tradesman had a youthful Son , Whose Heart to Love had not begun ; But pretty Betty was so Fair , She soon did draw his Heart in Snare . He oftentimes did Betty try , But she always did him deny , Saying , Good Sir , it is in Vain , My Honour you shall never stain . One Night he watching of his Time , He unto Betty told his Mind , How that he dearly did her Love , And nothing sure could it remove . Therefore my dearest Dear ( quoth he ) If that thou wilt consent with me , On Sunday next , to end all Strife , My Dearest , thou shalt be my Wife . His Mother chanced them to hear , Who hid her self in a Place near ; She strait resolved in her Mind To Frustrate her Son's Design . Then in the Morning she did say , Come Betty dress you speedily ; For in the Country you must go With me for One Day or Two. And so away she did her bring Unto a Captain of her Kin , Whose Ship that time lay in the Downs , And he was for Virginia Bound . And so away this Damsel's gone , Unto Virginia sailing on . O Heavens unto her prove Kind , And grant she may some Comfort find . But when her Mistress was come Home , You are Welcome Mother , said her Son ; But where is Betty now , I pray , That she so long behind does stay . I understand , my Son , quoth she , How great your Love is to Betty ; But your Designs are all in Vain , For Betty ' s sailing on the Main . And now this Young-Man's grown so Sad , No sort of Mirth can make him glad ; But oft in slumbering Sleep does cry , Oh Betty , Betty , I must Die ! Love Overthrown . The Young Man's Misery ; And the MAID'S RUINE : Being a True Relation , How a Beautiful Herefordshire Damsel ( who coming to Live in London , and being greatly Beloved by her Master's Son ) was , by her Mistress , Sold to Virginia : And of the Great Lamentation her Disconsolate Lover makes for her . To the Tune of All happy Times when free from Love , etc TO Here was a Maiden Fair and Clear , The which came out of Herefordshire , A Serving-Maid now for to be , That fitted best to her Degree . Her Skin the Lily did invite , To try which was the better White : Her Cheeks were of Vermilion Read , Like fragrant Beds of Roses spread . At length this fair Damsel came , As Servant , to live in the Strand , With a Tradesman of great Renown , Whose Wealth and Riches did abound . This Tradesman had a youthful Son , Whose Heart to Love had not begun ; But pretty Betty was so Fair , She soon did draw his Heart in Snare . He oftentimes did Betty try , But she always did him deny , Saying , Good Sir , it is in Vain , My Honour you shall never stain . One Night he watching of his Time , He unto Betty told his Mind , How that he dearly did her Love , And nothing sure could it remove . Therefore my dearest Dear ( quoth he ) If that thou wilt consent with me , On Sunday next , to end all Strife , My Dearest , thou shalt be my Wife . His Mother chanced them to hear , Who hid her self in a Place near ; She strait resolved in her Mind To Frustrate her Son's Design . Then in the Morning she did say , Come Betty dress you speedily ; For in the Country you must go With me for One Day or Two. And so away she did her bring Unto a Captain of her Kin , Whose Ship that time lay in the Downs , And he was for Virginia Bound . And so away this Damsel's gone , Unto Virginia sailing on . O Heavens unto her prove Kind , And grant she may some Comfort find . But when her Mistress was come Home , You are Welcome Mother , said her Son ; But where is Betty now , I pray , That she so long behind does stay . I understand , my Son , quoth she , How great your Love is to Betty ; But your Designs are all in Vain , For Betty ' s sailing on the Main . And now this Young-Man's grown so Sad , No sort of Mirth can make him glad ; But oft in slumbering Sleep does cry , Oh Betty , Betty , I must Die ! 