TO : THE London TRAGEDY : OR , Fair Elizabeth is unkind Cruelty to her dearest Johnny , Who in despair of her Love , Shot Himself with a Pistol in the Fields near Hackney , on the 16th Day of this Instant August , 1698. To the Tune of , Farewell my dear Johnny . Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOu Lovers , I pray you , be pleased to draw near , And you a sad Tragical Ditty shall hear ; It's of a young Man , who in Lothbury dwelled , The Passion of Love , and sharp Sorrow he felt ; Elizabeth she was the Joy of his Heart , And therefore her Frowns like a powerful Dart , Did wound him so deep , that he often would cry , There's none in the World so unhappy as I : Wherefore is my Dearest , so false and unkind ? O! Why does she change like the wavering Wind ? As if she took Pleasure , and Pride to destroy The Man who desires , her Love to enjoy . Here am I confined by the Fetters of Love , There's none in the Kingdom I valve above Elizabeth Spencer , my Joy and Delight ; Ah! Why will she labour to ruin me quite ? I once was persuaded she never would grieve Her Johnny , whom she did in Kindness receive ; But now she does cause and invincible Pain , Ah! what have I done to deserve her Disdain ? Tell me , did I ever my Duty neglect ? Have I not afforded the dearest Respect To fairest Elizabeth , whom I adore ; Then why am I tortured , and slighted therefore ? Your Company now I no longer must have , Therefore I'll rush on to my tragical Grave ; Through Blood I will venture , the Minute draws nigh ; This Sorrow to live , but a Pleasure to die . Sometime these rash Thoughts , I endeavoured to shun , Yet straight I resolved the black Deed should be done ; My Grief being more , than I am able to bear ; For why should I live between Hope and Despair ? Perhaps when my Head , in the Grave shall be laid , You'll think of the Vows , which in private we made ; You'll weep , and acknowledge your Scorn & amp ; Disdain [ ; ] But it'll not be Tears can recall me again . This Letter I write with a sorrowful Soul ; Then when I them departed perhaps you'll condole The Death of your Johnny , who n'er was unjust , With Tears you may spinkle my innocent Dust : For Conscience will live , when your Lover is dead ; A million of Thoughts , may come then in your head , Which will be severe on your Spirits , I know , To check you my Dearest , who tortured me so . This Said , then a Pistol he took in his Hand , He never no longer disputing did stand , But shot himself , so he immediately fell , And bid both the World , and his Lover farewell . Now when he had given this desperate Wound , And that he lay Bleeding to Death on the Ground , Some Friends came about him , right sorry indeed ; Then finding his Letter , 'twas printed with speed : That other young Damsels , henceforth may beware , How they leave their Lovers in Grief and Despair ; I tO is not their Duty to torture them so , The which may endanger their sad overthrow . LONDON : Printed for J. Shoot [ er . ] TO : THE London TRAGEDY : OR , Fair Elizabeth is unkind Cruelty to her dearest Johnny , Who in despair of her Love , Shot Himself with a Pistol in the Fields near Hackney , on the 16th Day of this Instant August , 1698. To the Tune of , Farewell my dear Johnny . Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOu Lovers , I pray you , be pleased to draw near , And you a sad Tragical Ditty shall hear ; It's of a young Man , who in Lothbury dwelled , The Passion of Love , and sharp Sorrow he felt ; Elizabeth she was the Joy of his Heart , And therefore her Frowns like a powerful Dart , Did wound him so deep , that he often would cry , There's none in the World so unhappy as I : Wherefore is my Dearest , so false and unkind ? O! Why does she change like the wavering Wind ? As if she took Pleasure , and Pride to destroy The Man who desires , her Love to enjoy . Here am I confined by the Fetters of Love , There's none in the Kingdom I valve above Elizabeth Spencer , my Joy and Delight ; Ah! Why will she labour to ruin me quite ? I once was persuaded she never would grieve Her Johnny , whom she did in Kindness receive ; But now she does cause and invincible Pain , Ah! what have I done to deserve her Disdain ? Tell me , did I ever my Duty neglect ? Have I not afforded the dearest Respect To fairest Elizabeth , whom I adore ; Then why am I tortured , and slighted therefore ? Your Company now I no longer must have , Therefore I'll rush on to my tragical Grave ; Through Blood I will venture , the Minute draws nigh ; This Sorrow to live , but a Pleasure to die . Sometime these rash Thoughts , I endeavoured to shun , Yet straight I resolved the black Deed should be done ; My Grief being more , than I am able to bear ; For why should I live between Hope and Despair ? Perhaps when my Head , in the Grave shall be laid , You'll think of the Vows , which in private we made ; You'll weep , and acknowledge your Scorn & amp ; Disdain [ ; ] But it'll not be Tears can recall me again . This Letter I write with a sorrowful Soul ; Then when I them departed perhaps you'll condole The Death of your Johnny , who n'er was unjust , With Tears you may spinkle my innocent Dust : For Conscience will live , when your Lover is dead ; A million of Thoughts , may come then in your head , Which will be severe on your Spirits , I know , To check you my Dearest , who tortured me so . This Said , then a Pistol he took in his Hand , He never no longer disputing did stand , But shot himself , so he immediately fell , And bid both the World , and his Lover farewell . Now when he had given this desperate Wound , And that he lay Bleeding to Death on the Ground , Some Friends came about him , right sorry indeed ; Then finding his Letter , 'twas printed with speed : That other young Damsels , henceforth may beware , How they leave their Lovers in Grief and Despair ; I tO is not their Duty to torture them so , The which may endanger their sad overthrow . LONDON : Printed for J. Shoot [ er . ] 