The Cook-Maid's Tragedy : OR , THE Loyal LOVER's Overthrow : BEING And Account of MARY a Cook-Maid in Covent Garden ; who Poisoned herself in Despair , for the Love of THOMAS a Coachman . To the Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion . O Treacherous Lovers , what do intend ? Will your flattering Cruelties never have end ? Must we hear of new Tragedies every day , As the innocent Lovers you still do betray ? Do but think of the Passion which they do sustain , When they felt themselves wounded by Darts of Disdain . The Grief being more than they're able to bear , Straight they languish and lie at the point of Despair ; Still contriving their sorrowful Lives to destroy , Being certain they never shall the Blessing enjoy . Therefore falsehearted Lovers pray think of their pain , When alas ! they lay wounded by Darts of Disdain . among all the Tragical Stories we find , There was never young Lover more false and unkind , Than the Coachman , Brisk Thomas , who wooed the Cookmaid , Whom he slighted so soon as her heart was betrayed : Let him think of the sorrows which she did sustain , When she felt herself wounded with Darts of Disdain . At fair Covent-garden these Lovers did live , Where he courted kind Marry until she did give Him a promise , That none should enjoy her but he , Then a Treacherous Lover he proved to be : Let him think of that torment which she did sustain , When she found herself wounded with Darts of Disdain . [ Alas , my ] Dear Thomas , she often would cry , [ There's non ] e in the World more Unhappy than I : [ I'm deserted ] and left to bemoan my sad Fate , [ Though you s ] eemed to love and admire of late , [ O think of the ] Passion which here I sustain , [ Thou hast my he ] art wounded with Darts of Disdain . I find that I cannot my Passion endure , I will seek out , with speed , for and absolute Cure . It is better to die , than thus languish in grief , I will hasten my Death , through the hope's of Relief . He too late may remember what I did sustain , While in Love I lay wounded by Darts of Disdain . I hear have prepared a sad Portion to take , For , alas , now , the World I can freely forsake . As I hasten my Death through the Torments of Love , Ah! forgive me , forgive me , you Powers above ! And let Thomas remember the grief I sustain , While I here have lain wounded with Darts of Disdain . Thus taking this Dose of strong Poison she lay In a dismal Condition , till late the next day , When at last , as expiring , with tears she did crave , That they would but afford her , a true Christian Grave . Which at length being granted , her breath she resigned , And hath left her false Treacherous Lover behind . What Vows he had made to this Creature alone , Unto God and his Conscience , alas , it's best known ; It is true , he may flourish and laugh for a space , But when Conscience in fury shall fly in his face , He to late may remember what she did sustain , When in Griefs she lay wounded by Darts of Disdain . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . The Cook-Maid's Tragedy : OR , THE Loyal LOVER's Overthrow : BEING And Account of MARY a Cook-Maid in Covent Garden ; who Poisoned herself in Despair , for the Love of THOMAS a Coachman . To the Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion . O Treacherous Lovers , what do intend ? Will your flattering Cruelties never have end ? Must we hear of new Tragedies every day , As the innocent Lovers you still do betray ? Do but think of the Passion which they do sustain , When they felt themselves wounded by Darts of Disdain . The Grief being more than they're able to bear , Straight they languish and lie at the point of Despair ; Still contriving their sorrowful Lives to destroy , Being certain they never shall the Blessing enjoy . Therefore falsehearted Lovers pray think of their pain , When alas ! they lay wounded by Darts of Disdain . among all the Tragical Stories we find , There was never young Lover more false and unkind , Than the Coachman , Brisk Thomas , who wooed the Cookmaid , Whom he slighted so soon as her heart was betrayed : Let him think of the sorrows which she did sustain , When she felt herself wounded with Darts of Disdain . At fair Covent-garden these Lovers did live , Where he courted kind Marry until she did give Him a promise , That none should enjoy her but he , Then a Treacherous Lover he proved to be : Let him think of that torment which she did sustain , When she found herself wounded with Darts of Disdain . [ Alas , my ] Dear Thomas , she often would cry , [ There's non ] e in the World more Unhappy than I : [ I'm deserted ] and left to bemoan my sad Fate , [ Though you s ] eemed to love and admire of late , [ O think of the ] Passion which here I sustain , [ Thou hast my he ] art wounded with Darts of Disdain . I find that I cannot my Passion endure , I will seek out , with speed , for and absolute Cure . It is better to die , than thus languish in grief , I will hasten my Death , through the hope's of Relief . He too late may remember what I did sustain , While in Love I lay wounded by Darts of Disdain . I hear have prepared a sad Portion to take , For , alas , now , the World I can freely forsake . As I hasten my Death through the Torments of Love , Ah! forgive me , forgive me , you Powers above ! And let Thomas remember the grief I sustain , While I here have lain wounded with Darts of Disdain . Thus taking this Dose of strong Poison she lay In a dismal Condition , till late the next day , When at last , as expiring , with tears she did crave , That they would but afford her , a true Christian Grave . Which at length being granted , her breath she resigned , And hath left her false Treacherous Lover behind . What Vows he had made to this Creature alone , Unto God and his Conscience , alas , it's best known ; It is true , he may flourish and laugh for a space , But when Conscience in fury shall fly in his face , He to late may remember what she did sustain , When in Griefs she lay wounded by Darts of Disdain . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 