TO : THE SUSSEX TRAGEDY : OR , THE Fatal Overthrow of a Young Man in Petworth , WHO Broke his Heart for the sake of a Falsehearted LOVER . To the Tune of , I love thee dearly , I love thee well . Licensed and Entered , according to Order . YOung Men and Maidens , pray draw near , And harken what I do declare ; It's of a young Man , that died for Love , His Sweetheart did unconstant prove : He loved this Maiden his Life , She promised him to be his Wife ; The Wedding-day appoint ed were , For the young Tailor and his Dear . But a young Tapster lived hard by , Went unto her , and thus did cry , If then my lawful Wife will be , I ever will be true to thee . Then straight to him she gave consent , To married be ; to Church they went : Her mind was soon altered now , That she soon broke her former Vow . But when the Tailor came to know The Tapster he had served him so , [ He w ] rung his Hands , and oft would cry , [ Was ever ] Man so served as I ? [ He fell in melanc ] holly Fits , [ Read to run beside his ] Wits ; [ Our Love has broke my Heart , ] he cried ; [ And in a Week or less he died ] No sooner he in Grave was laid , But the young Tapster and his Bride They fell to Variance and to Strife , He is run away and left his Wife . See now does weep and make sad moan , Because that she is left alone ; She cries , Let other Maids beware , For fear they're drawn in the same Snare . 'Twas my false Heart did us betray , Or else he might lived till this day ; I might a been his married Wife , And lived a comfortable Life . Methinks that every Night I see His Ghost standing and looks on me ; And oft I think I hear him cry , Come , you must go as well as I. It's just of God such things should be . I deserve Death as well as he ; And free to die indeed I am , For wronging a truehearted Man. Young Lovers all , a Warning take , And see you don't your Promise break , As I did both to Vow and Swear : Henceforth , false Lovers , then beware . [ London : Printed for J. Blare ] at the Looking glass on London-bridge . TO : THE SUSSEX TRAGEDY : OR , THE Fatal Overthrow of a Young Man in Petworth , WHO Broke his Heart for the sake of a Falsehearted LOVER . To the Tune of , I love thee dearly , I love thee well . Licensed and Entered , according to Order . YOung Men and Maidens , pray draw near , And harken what I do declare ; It's of a young Man , that died for Love , His Sweetheart did unconstant prove : He loved this Maiden his Life , She promised him to be his Wife ; The Wedding-day appoint ed were , For the young Tailor and his Dear . But a young Tapster lived hard by , Went unto her , and thus did cry , If then my lawful Wife will be , I ever will be true to thee . Then straight to him she gave consent , To married be ; to Church they went : Her mind was soon altered now , That she soon broke her former Vow . But when the Tailor came to know The Tapster he had served him so , [ He w ] rung his Hands , and oft would cry , [ Was ever ] Man so served as I ? [ He fell in melanc ] holly Fits , [ Read to run beside his ] Wits ; [ Our Love has broke my Heart , ] he cried ; [ And in a Week or less he died ] No sooner he in Grave was laid , But the young Tapster and his Bride They fell to Variance and to Strife , He is run away and left his Wife . See now does weep and make sad moan , Because that she is left alone ; She cries , Let other Maids beware , For fear they're drawn in the same Snare . 'Twas my false Heart did us betray , Or else he might lived till this day ; I might a been his married Wife , And lived a comfortable Life . Methinks that every Night I see His Ghost standing and looks on me ; And oft I think I hear him cry , Come , you must go as well as I. It's just of God such things should be . I deserve Death as well as he ; And free to die indeed I am , For wronging a truehearted Man. Young Lovers all , a Warning take , And see you don't your Promise break , As I did both to Vow and Swear : Henceforth , false Lovers , then beware . [ London : Printed for J. Blare ] at the Looking glass on London-bridge . 