TO : THE Esquires Tragedy . OR , THE Unfortunate Lovers last Farewell , Together with his Unkind Ladys Lamentation for his death , when 'twas too late . Tune of , I Love you more and more each day . Licensed according to Order . FOrgive me , if your looks , I thought , did once some change discover ; To be too jealous is the fault , of every tender Lover : Might truth those kind Reproaches show , which you blame so severely , A since ( alas ! ) you little know ; You little know what it's to Love sincerely . The torment of a long despair , I did in silence smother ; But it's a pain I cannot bear , to think you love another , My Fate ( alas ! ) depends on you , I am but what you make me , Dearly blessed , if you prove true , If you prove true , undone if you forsake me . In the I place my chiefest Joy , I seek no other Treasure , Then do not all my hope's destroy , who loves thee out of measure : Forbear to triumph in disdain , since here I lie and languish , True love is a tormenting pain , Tormenting pain , which fills my soul with anguish . The silent Night I spend in tears , and melt in Lamentation , And yet no glance of love appears , but utter detestation ; Regarding not my piteous moan , my sighs and sad lamenting , Your heart like Flint or Marble Stone , Or Marble Stone , feels not the least relenting . Your Beauty gave the fatal wound , and did at first allure me , In chains of love I now lie bound , and you alone can cure me , Cast not a Loyal Love away , who at your feet lies bleeding Unto my sighed one smile convey , One smile convey , for which my tears are pleading . Why should a charming beauty bright , resolve to be so c vel , Oh let me not be ruined quite in Loves destroying Fuel ; See how mine eyes like Fountains flow , with chryistal tears before thee , Then do not seek his overthrow , His overthrow , who does this day adore thee . Behold I am thy C aptive Slave , thy wounded love believe me , And you alone my life can save , and therefore now reprieve me , Yet though my grief you'll not remove , but still with torments fill me , Yet I cannot forbear to love , Forbear to love , although with scorn you kill me . If thus you are resolved to frown , and slight my friendly favour , Then to the grave I will go down , farewell thou World for ever ; I find the Triumphs in disdain , and still denys the blessing , Why should I live to feel this pain , To feel this pain , which is beyond expressing . This said , his Naked Sword he drew , and to his heart he sent it , And as he bid the World adieu , she bitterly lamented , C rying , I was unfortunate , would I had died before him . Thus did she weep , when 'twas too late , When 'twas too late , for tears could not restore him . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. WORSER eacon , J. Blare , J. Back . TO : THE Esquires Tragedy . OR , THE Unfortunate Lovers last Farewell , Together with his Unkind Ladys Lamentation for his death , when 'twas too late . Tune of , I Love you more and more each day . Licensed according to Order . FOrgive me , if your looks , I thought , did once some change discover ; To be too jealous is the fault , of every tender Lover : Might truth those kind Reproaches show , which you blame so severely , A since ( alas ! ) you little know ; You little know what it's to Love sincerely . The torment of a long despair , I did in silence smother ; But it's a pain I cannot bear , to think you love another , My Fate ( alas ! ) depends on you , I am but what you make me , Dearly blessed , if you prove true , If you prove true , undone if you forsake me . In the I place my chiefest Joy , I seek no other Treasure , Then do not all my hope's destroy , who loves thee out of measure : Forbear to triumph in disdain , since here I lie and languish , True love is a tormenting pain , Tormenting pain , which fills my soul with anguish . The silent Night I spend in tears , and melt in Lamentation , And yet no glance of love appears , but utter detestation ; Regarding not my piteous moan , my sighs and sad lamenting , Your heart like Flint or Marble Stone , Or Marble Stone , feels not the least relenting . Your Beauty gave the fatal wound , and did at first allure me , In chains of love I now lie bound , and you alone can cure me , Cast not a Loyal Love away , who at your feet lies bleeding Unto my sighed one smile convey , One smile convey , for which my tears are pleading . Why should a charming beauty bright , resolve to be so c vel , Oh let me not be ruined quite in Loves destroying Fuel ; See how mine eyes like Fountains flow , with chryistal tears before thee , Then do not seek his overthrow , His overthrow , who does this day adore thee . Behold I am thy C aptive Slave , thy wounded love believe me , And you alone my life can save , and therefore now reprieve me , Yet though my grief you'll not remove , but still with torments fill me , Yet I cannot forbear to love , Forbear to love , although with scorn you kill me . If thus you are resolved to frown , and slight my friendly favour , Then to the grave I will go down , farewell thou World for ever ; I find the Triumphs in disdain , and still denys the blessing , Why should I live to feel this pain , To feel this pain , which is beyond expressing . This said , his Naked Sword he drew , and to his heart he sent it , And as he bid the World adieu , she bitterly lamented , C rying , I was unfortunate , would I had died before him . Thus did she weep , when 'twas too late , When 'twas too late , for tears could not restore him . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. WORSER eacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 