The Unfortunate Lady ; OR , The Young Lover's fatal Tragedy : Who lately Hanged her self for the Love of a Young Gentleman , whom her Pa - rends would not suffer her to have ; but sent her a false Letter , that he was Mar - ryed , which was the Cause of her Untimely Death . To the Tune of The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . 1. I Do not sing of Triumph , no Nor of the Blessings here below ; But of a Loyal Lover's Fallen , Which is lamented by us all . 2. Let loving Parents now attend Unto this Lesson which I send ; Cross not your Children dear , in Love , For fear it should their Ruin prove . 3. Too many in this Age we find , They are to Riches so inclined , That they can nothing less behold , Though Love be better worth than Gold . 4. When True Love cannot be enjoyed , How many Damsels are destroyed ? As we by true Experience know , It having proved their Overthrow . 5. Some has by burning Fevers fell , And some their Sorrows to expel , Have sent a fatal bloody Dart Into their fainting Lovesick Heart . 6. Others by Poison end their days ; And thus the Lover many ways Can find , to ease their Lovesick Pain , When they their Wishes can't obtain . 7. Among the rest of one I write , Her Parents Joy , and Hearts Delight , Who by them being crossed in Love , It did a sad Destruction prove . 8. Her Heart was linked to her Dear : Now when her Friends the same did hear , She was with speed to London sent , Where she in sorrow did lament . 9. She often wrang her Hands , and cried , I am of all my Joys deny worser ; No glance of Comfort do's appear , While I am banshied from my Dear . 10. Though we may for a Season part , I do declare he has my Heart ; To none but him the same I'll give , While I have here a day to live . 11. Said she , The storm may be blown over , And Fortune may our Joys restore , Therefore I will with Patience wait : [ B ] ut now behold her dismal Fate . 12. Her Friends they did a Letter frame , That he was Married : When it came , She with a Sighs , said , Is it so ? Then Love will prove my Overthrow . 13. She dressed herself in rich Array , And to her Chamber took her way , And then her Life she ended there ; The Grief was more than she could bear . 14. Let her Mishap a Warning be To Friends of high and low Degree ; Cross not your Children here in Love , Lest you their utter Ruin prove . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Unfortunate Lady ; OR , The Young Lover's fatal Tragedy : Who lately Hanged her self for the Love of a Young Gentleman , whom her Pa - rends would not suffer her to have ; but sent her a false Letter , that he was Mar - ryed , which was the Cause of her Untimely Death . To the Tune of The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . 1. I Do not sing of Triumph , no Nor of the Blessings here below ; But of a Loyal Lover's Fallen , Which is lamented by us all . 2. Let loving Parents now attend Unto this Lesson which I send ; Cross not your Children dear , in Love , For fear it should their Ruin prove . 3. Too many in this Age we find , They are to Riches so inclined , That they can nothing less behold , Though Love be better worth than Gold . 4. When True Love cannot be enjoyed , How many Damsels are destroyed ? As we by true Experience know , It having proved their Overthrow . 5. Some has by burning Fevers fell , And some their Sorrows to expel , Have sent a fatal bloody Dart Into their fainting Lovesick Heart . 6. Others by Poison end their days ; And thus the Lover many ways Can find , to ease their Lovesick Pain , When they their Wishes can't obtain . 7. Among the rest of one I write , Her Parents Joy , and Hearts Delight , Who by them being crossed in Love , It did a sad Destruction prove . 8. Her Heart was linked to her Dear : Now when her Friends the same did hear , She was with speed to London sent , Where she in sorrow did lament . 9. She often wrang her Hands , and cried , I am of all my Joys deny worser ; No glance of Comfort do's appear , While I am banshied from my Dear . 10. Though we may for a Season part , I do declare he has my Heart ; To none but him the same I'll give , While I have here a day to live . 11. Said she , The storm may be blown over , And Fortune may our Joys restore , Therefore I will with Patience wait : [ B ] ut now behold her dismal Fate . 12. Her Friends they did a Letter frame , That he was Married : When it came , She with a Sighs , said , Is it so ? Then Love will prove my Overthrow . 13. She dressed herself in rich Array , And to her Chamber took her way , And then her Life she ended there ; The Grief was more than she could bear . 14. Let her Mishap a Warning be To Friends of high and low Degree ; Cross not your Children here in Love , Lest you their utter Ruin prove . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 