The two Unhappy Lovers ; Being a Wealthy Merchant who broke his heart for Love , and the Mercers Beautiful Daughter , who after his Death , Poisoned her self in despair . Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . I . IN London there lived a Beautiful Maid , Only Daughter unto a Rich Mercer by Trade , Who had left to her Portion full three thousand pound , Thus both Riches and beauty in her did abound ; But the Pride of her insolent heart soared above All the graces of Beauty , and blasted her Love . II As through the fair City she blazed her Fame , For to Court her , a Merchant and Shopkeeper came Nay , a wealthy young Squire , and Curnol likewise , Each endeavoured to gain this Rich Beautiful prize , But their proffered Services proved but in vain , For she frowned , and returned the Darts of disdain . III . I'll have no Mechanic Shopkeeper , she cried , Nor shall any poor Soldier ever lie by my side ; No , nor Merchant , who ventures his stock on the Seas She returned them such insolent answers as these ; But the wealthy young Squire she fancied we hear , Whose Estate was some five or six thousand a year . IV. The Noble brave Curnol he valued her not , And the Shopkeeper straightways her beauty forgotten ; But the wounded young Merchant he languishing cried , Have I loved her ! yet must I be clearly denied ? O go tell her , except she some pity will take , That her Languishing Lover must die for her sake . V. She soon was informed of her languishing Love Yet no manner of pity this Damsel could move But she laughed in derision and thus did reply , I'll not hinder the Youth , if he's willing to die ; For no Merchant my Person shall ever embrace , While a Rich noble Gallant young Squire's in place . VI . So soon as her Answer was brought to his Ear , He replied with a sighs and a Sorrowful Tear , I am ruined by Beauty , my Glory is fled , In the dark silent Grave I will now lay my Head Thus he straightway departed , and left her to know Many days of sad sorrow for slighting him so . VII . The Squire whom she did so dearly adore , He rejected her Charms , and came near her no more , This beginning of sorrow she presently found , For the Arrows of Cupid had given the Wound , And did cause her in passionate sorrow to cry , There is none in the world more unhappy than I. VIII . My true Love the Merchant I sent to the Grave , When it lay in my absolute power to save His dear innocent Life ; nay , I killed him with grief , And denied him so much as one glance of relief ; Therefore now to my passionate sorrow I find , I am justy rewarded , and served in my kind . IX . After my true love to the Grave let me go , For here's nothing but torment and trouble I know , With which my poor sorrowful Soul is oppressed , Let this Potion of Poison now end the contest , Then she took up the draught , and did trembling cry , I am coming my Love , for thy sake I will die . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Anchor and Bible near St. Peters Church in Corn-Hill . The two Unhappy Lovers ; Being a Wealthy Merchant who broke his heart for Love , and the Mercers Beautiful Daughter , who after his Death , Poisoned her self in despair . Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . I . IN London there lived a Beautiful Maid , Only Daughter unto a Rich Mercer by Trade , Who had left to her Portion full three thousand pound , Thus both Riches and beauty in her did abound ; But the Pride of her insolent heart soared above All the graces of Beauty , and blasted her Love . II As through the fair City she blazed her Fame , For to Court her , a Merchant and Shopkeeper came Nay , a wealthy young Squire , and Curnol likewise , Each endeavoured to gain this Rich Beautiful prize , But their proffered Services proved but in vain , For she frowned , and returned the Darts of disdain . III . I'll have no Mechanic Shopkeeper , she cried , Nor shall any poor Soldier ever lie by my side ; No , nor Merchant , who ventures his stock on the Seas She returned them such insolent answers as these ; But the wealthy young Squire she fancied we hear , Whose Estate was some five or six thousand a year . IV. The Noble brave Curnol he valued her not , And the Shopkeeper straightways her beauty forgotten ; But the wounded young Merchant he languishing cried , Have I loved her ! yet must I be clearly denied ? O go tell her , except she some pity will take , That her Languishing Lover must die for her sake . V. She soon was informed of her languishing Love Yet no manner of pity this Damsel could move But she laughed in derision and thus did reply , I'll not hinder the Youth , if he's willing to die ; For no Merchant my Person shall ever embrace , While a Rich noble Gallant young Squire's in place . VI . So soon as her Answer was brought to his Ear , He replied with a sighs and a Sorrowful Tear , I am ruined by Beauty , my Glory is fled , In the dark silent Grave I will now lay my Head Thus he straightway departed , and left her to know Many days of sad sorrow for slighting him so . VII . The Squire whom she did so dearly adore , He rejected her Charms , and came near her no more , This beginning of sorrow she presently found , For the Arrows of Cupid had given the Wound , And did cause her in passionate sorrow to cry , There is none in the world more unhappy than I. VIII . My true Love the Merchant I sent to the Grave , When it lay in my absolute power to save His dear innocent Life ; nay , I killed him with grief , And denied him so much as one glance of relief ; Therefore now to my passionate sorrow I find , I am justy rewarded , and served in my kind . IX . After my true love to the Grave let me go , For here's nothing but torment and trouble I know , With which my poor sorrowful Soul is oppressed , Let this Potion of Poison now end the contest , Then she took up the draught , and did trembling cry , I am coming my Love , for thy sake I will die . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Anchor and Bible near St. Peters Church in Corn-Hill . 