The Wronged LADY : OR , The Lord's Daughter of Leicestershire , Who died for the Love of a young Nobleman , who left her after many solemn Protestations . To the Tune of If Love's a sweet Passion , etc I . Oh Pity a Lover who lies I declare , Where I languish and sighs at the point of Despair , He is gone , and has left me , who once did adore , My fair beautiful Charms , I shall never see him more : Look but down on a Lady , you Powers above , And relieve her sick Heart , which is wounded with Love . II He never would leave me , but Courted me still , Till at length I was conquered , he gained my good Will ; Then away to another he hastened with speed , And has left his young languishing Lady to bleed : Therefore look down in pity , you Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart which is wounded with Love . III . Sure never was Mortal so False as my Dear , Nor the Arrows of Cupid so keen and severe ; For in passionate Flames here I languishing lie , There is no one can cure me , this day let me die : Therefore look down in pity , you Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart , etc IV. So soon as my innocent Heart was betrayed , Then he flew from the Vows he had formerly made : Just as if he had studied my Ruin alone ; For he left me to make this sad passionate moan : Therefore look on a Lady , you Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart , etc V. The Torment is greater than I can endure , There is nothing but Death which can perfectly cure ; Therefore send a sharp Arrow , without more delay , Which may hasten a Lady's last Funeral Day : Do but grant my Desires you Powers above , To relieve my sick Heart , etc VI . Although the hight Flames of a Fever I feel , From my Love I would have you this Sorrow conceal , Let him never once know that I died for his sake , Of the World and my Friends now my leave I will take Then look down on a Lady , you Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart , etc VII . When I shall be laid in my slumbering Grave , To his Grief he may think of the Wound which he gam [ we ] And how he did destroy me by Darts of Disdain ; But it will be too late to recall me again : Oh! afford me your pity , Dear Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart which is all over love . VIII . Dear Friends and Relations , why weep you for me , Who am going where Transports of Joys I shall see , And the Rivers of Pleasure for ever will flow ? Here is nothing but Grief in these Valleys below ; Therefore grant me your Pity , Dear Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart , which is all over Love . IX . My Joys do increase , as my Griefs do's decay , For I see the bright Angels which soon will convey My poor injured Soul to the Mansions of Joy , There is Pleasures which Envy can never destroy : Fare you well , I shall mount to blessed Regions above , For I die a young Lady by innocent Love . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-sp [ ur - ] street , without Newgate . The Wronged LADY : OR , The Lord's Daughter of Leicestershire , Who died for the Love of a young Nobleman , who left her after many solemn Protestations . To the Tune of If Love's a sweet Passion , etc I . Oh Pity a Lover who lies I declare , Where I languish and sighs at the point of Despair , He is gone , and has left me , who once did adore , My fair beautiful Charms , I shall never see him more : Look but down on a Lady , you Powers above , And relieve her sick Heart , which is wounded with Love . II He never would leave me , but Courted me still , Till at length I was conquered , he gained my good Will ; Then away to another he hastened with speed , And has left his young languishing Lady to bleed : Therefore look down in pity , you Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart which is wounded with Love . III . Sure never was Mortal so False as my Dear , Nor the Arrows of Cupid so keen and severe ; For in passionate Flames here I languishing lie , There is no one can cure me , this day let me die : Therefore look down in pity , you Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart , etc IV. So soon as my innocent Heart was betrayed , Then he flew from the Vows he had formerly made : Just as if he had studied my Ruin alone ; For he left me to make this sad passionate moan : Therefore look on a Lady , you Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart , etc V. The Torment is greater than I can endure , There is nothing but Death which can perfectly cure ; Therefore send a sharp Arrow , without more delay , Which may hasten a Lady's last Funeral Day : Do but grant my Desires you Powers above , To relieve my sick Heart , etc VI . Although the hight Flames of a Fever I feel , From my Love I would have you this Sorrow conceal , Let him never once know that I died for his sake , Of the World and my Friends now my leave I will take Then look down on a Lady , you Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart , etc VII . When I shall be laid in my slumbering Grave , To his Grief he may think of the Wound which he gam [ we ] And how he did destroy me by Darts of Disdain ; But it will be too late to recall me again : Oh! afford me your pity , Dear Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart which is all over love . VIII . Dear Friends and Relations , why weep you for me , Who am going where Transports of Joys I shall see , And the Rivers of Pleasure for ever will flow ? Here is nothing but Grief in these Valleys below ; Therefore grant me your Pity , Dear Powers above , And relieve my sick Heart , which is all over Love . IX . My Joys do increase , as my Griefs do's decay , For I see the bright Angels which soon will convey My poor injured Soul to the Mansions of Joy , There is Pleasures which Envy can never destroy : Fare you well , I shall mount to blessed Regions above , For I die a young Lady by innocent Love . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-sp [ ur - ] street , without Newgate . 