Constant Coridon ; OR , Coy CLORINDA's unspeakable Cruelty . To and Excellent New Tune : Or , See yonder she Swims , etc Licensed according to Order . 1. ONe Morning in pleasant weather , a Heavenly sighed was seen , Young Goddesses met together , upon a Delightful Green , On Lutes they were sweetly playing Which then did most pleasant prove , I felt in and hours staying , the violent flames of Love . 2. No Minnaway Dance , or Boree , was ever so sweet a strain , Now while I beheld the Glory of Flora is delightful Train , My senses was soon surrounded , these Eyes I could not remove , Until my poor heart was wounded , with Violent shames of Love , 3. Clorinda the sweetest Creature , on her did I fix my Eyes , While viewing each Charminging feature , my senses she did surprise , For ever I will adore her , I swear by the powers above , I'll honour no Nymph before her , if that she will grant me Love . 4. Then coming with all submission , unto my sweet Charming Saint , Delivering my Petition , With sorrowful sad Complaint , Desiring she'd behold me , who ever would Loyal prove , With Angry frowns she told me , She never did mean to Love . 5. With Languishing heart I waited , to Conquor and win the field ; And every truth related , my Passion I never concealed : Then proffering to advance her , if that she would constant prove , But straight she returned this Answer , she never did mean to Love . 6. Her Conquering Eyes hath wounded my innocent melting heart , In sorrow I am surrounded , I never felt greater smart , When ever I chance to meet her , and tell her I'll Loyal prove , She frowns when I do entreat her , and vows she will never love . 7. She's fled to the Shades and left me , by Conquering Beauty slave , Of Glory and Joy bereft me , true Love is a killing pain , My Heart it is wracked in sunder , no pity that Saint will move , Distraction I here lie under , by violent flames of Love . 8. I find her both Coy , and Cruel , which Tortours me day and night , Yet I must adore that jewel , although she distroys me quite , My fancy can no ways waver , for ever I'll Loyal prove And die if I may not have her , by violent flames of Love . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare J. Back . Constant Coridon ; OR , Coy CLORINDA's unspeakable Cruelty . To and Excellent New Tune : Or , See yonder she Swims , etc Licensed according to Order . 1. ONe Morning in pleasant weather , a Heavenly sighed was seen , Young Goddesses met together , upon a Delightful Green , On Lutes they were sweetly playing Which then did most pleasant prove , I felt in and hours staying , the violent flames of Love . 2. No Minnaway Dance , or Boree , was ever so sweet a strain , Now while I beheld the Glory of Flora is delightful Train , My senses was soon surrounded , these Eyes I could not remove , Until my poor heart was wounded , with Violent shames of Love , 3. Clorinda the sweetest Creature , on her did I fix my Eyes , While viewing each Charminging feature , my senses she did surprise , For ever I will adore her , I swear by the powers above , I'll honour no Nymph before her , if that she will grant me Love . 4. Then coming with all submission , unto my sweet Charming Saint , Delivering my Petition , With sorrowful sad Complaint , Desiring she'd behold me , who ever would Loyal prove , With Angry frowns she told me , She never did mean to Love . 5. With Languishing heart I waited , to Conquor and win the field ; And every truth related , my Passion I never concealed : Then proffering to advance her , if that she would constant prove , But straight she returned this Answer , she never did mean to Love . 6. Her Conquering Eyes hath wounded my innocent melting heart , In sorrow I am surrounded , I never felt greater smart , When ever I chance to meet her , and tell her I'll Loyal prove , She frowns when I do entreat her , and vows she will never love . 7. She's fled to the Shades and left me , by Conquering Beauty slave , Of Glory and Joy bereft me , true Love is a killing pain , My Heart it is wracked in sunder , no pity that Saint will move , Distraction I here lie under , by violent flames of Love . 8. I find her both Coy , and Cruel , which Tortours me day and night , Yet I must adore that jewel , although she distroys me quite , My fancy can no ways waver , for ever I'll Loyal prove And die if I may not have her , by violent flames of Love . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare J. Back . 