And Excellent New Song , Called , The Unkind Parents , OR , The Unfortunate Lovers . Being a Relation of a young Gentleman and a Lady , who had promised to Marry one another , but the Lady's Father and Mother forced her to Marry and old Man for the sake of his Riches , which unfortunate Marriage was the occasion of the young Man's being cast away at Sea , and the Lady's stabbing her self . Tune of , Found Boy . With Allowance . O where's my Rosinda shall I never more Behold that bright Beauty whom I did adore , I wait at her Window both early and late To see her as usual , but o my sad fate Denies me that bliss , which makes me to fear That some sad mishap hath befallen my dear . In this silent Grove my Rosinda and I , Did vow to each other to love constantly , My heart is surprised for sure I do see My dearest lamenting so near unto me , Oh tell me Rosinda the cause of my tears , Thy absence hath filled my heart with sad fears . Alas my Almander my heart is oppressed With sorrow so much that can scarce be expressed , My friends hath enforced me my vows for to break , Which often to thee in this Grove I did make , That I would never Marry with none but my Love , But now I am forced unconstant to prove . My Parents , regardless of all my sad Tears , Have forced me to marry with one that's in years , Exceeding mine far , but his Riches was great , Which caused my Parents Almander to hate , Since that I did love you so dearly that I Did hate the old Miser and him did deny . But o , all in vain since the knot is once tied , Till Death come and ease me , and us shall divide , For since that I cannot Almander enjoy , Kind Death will befriend me my life to destroy , Farewell then Almander my Dearest so true , Rosinda must bid thee forever adieu . O since that my hope's are by fortune thus crossed , And I my Rosinda for ever have lost , I'll range over the World for my heart is oppressed , With sorrow so great I can no where find rest , Farewell my Rosinda these words then he spoke , Remember the Vows that thy Marriage hath broke . And then in a Ship which was ready to Sail , On board went Almander who had a fine Gale Of wind and no waves they so swiftly did glide , That soon they did sail in the Ocean so wide , But fortune that seemed at first for to smile , Did soon in a moment his hope's all beguile . A storm did arise and the Ship run a ground , Where Almander & amp ; most of the Seamen were drowned , There escaped but 3 which on Hogsheads did get , And floated oath Sea till a Ship they did meet , Which brought them to Engl. where they did relate The loss of the Ship and Almander is hard fate . But when this sad News to Rosinda they bear , She beatrice her fair Breasts and tore her gold hair , Thus crying , Almander lies deep in the Sea , O would that Rosinda was buried with thee , And thus in sad sorrow she still did complain , Since Almander is dead , now my life I disdain . Then taking a Dagger she held fast the same , And with a full stroke at her Breast she did aim , As life was departing , ah now cried She , I come my Almander , I come unto thee , Being dead by her wound , in her blood she did lie , Thus Rosinda for Love of Almander did die . London , Printed and Sold by TO : Moore . And Excellent New Song , Called , The Unkind Parents , OR , The Unfortunate Lovers . Being a Relation of a young Gentleman and a Lady , who had promised to Marry one another , but the Lady's Father and Mother forced her to Marry and old Man for the sake of his Riches , which unfortunate Marriage was the occasion of the young Man's being cast away at Sea , and the Lady's stabbing her self . Tune of , Found Boy . With Allowance . O where's my Rosinda shall I never more Behold that bright Beauty whom I did adore , I wait at her Window both early and late To see her as usual , but o my sad fate Denies me that bliss , which makes me to fear That some sad mishap hath befallen my dear . In this silent Grove my Rosinda and I , Did vow to each other to love constantly , My heart is surprised for sure I do see My dearest lamenting so near unto me , Oh tell me Rosinda the cause of my tears , Thy absence hath filled my heart with sad fears . Alas my Almander my heart is oppressed With sorrow so much that can scarce be expressed , My friends hath enforced me my vows for to break , Which often to thee in this Grove I did make , That I would never Marry with none but my Love , But now I am forced unconstant to prove . My Parents , regardless of all my sad Tears , Have forced me to marry with one that's in years , Exceeding mine far , but his Riches was great , Which caused my Parents Almander to hate , Since that I did love you so dearly that I Did hate the old Miser and him did deny . But o , all in vain since the knot is once tied , Till Death come and ease me , and us shall divide , For since that I cannot Almander enjoy , Kind Death will befriend me my life to destroy , Farewell then Almander my Dearest so true , Rosinda must bid thee forever adieu . O since that my hope's are by fortune thus crossed , And I my Rosinda for ever have lost , I'll range over the World for my heart is oppressed , With sorrow so great I can no where find rest , Farewell my Rosinda these words then he spoke , Remember the Vows that thy Marriage hath broke . And then in a Ship which was ready to Sail , On board went Almander who had a fine Gale Of wind and no waves they so swiftly did glide , That soon they did sail in the Ocean so wide , But fortune that seemed at first for to smile , Did soon in a moment his hope's all beguile . A storm did arise and the Ship run a ground , Where Almander & amp ; most of the Seamen were drowned , There escaped but 3 which on Hogsheads did get , And floated oath Sea till a Ship they did meet , Which brought them to Engl. where they did relate The loss of the Ship and Almander is hard fate . But when this sad News to Rosinda they bear , She beatrice her fair Breasts and tore her gold hair , Thus crying , Almander lies deep in the Sea , O would that Rosinda was buried with thee , And thus in sad sorrow she still did complain , Since Almander is dead , now my life I disdain . Then taking a Dagger she held fast the same , And with a full stroke at her Breast she did aim , As life was departing , ah now cried She , I come my Almander , I come unto thee , Being dead by her wound , in her blood she did lie , Thus Rosinda for Love of Almander did die . London , Printed and Sold by TO : Moore . 