THE Young Lass's Lamentation : CONTAINING HER Melancholy Moan for the loss of her Maidenhead . To which is added , The Young MAN's Answer ; concluding with his kind Promise , in helping her to a Husband to make her Amends . To the Tune of , Found Boy . Her COMPLAINT . I Am a young damsel this day in distress , Who has a sad sorrowful tale to express , And therefore good people pray hear my complaint : Young Thomas the baker I took for a saint ; But since I did let him once tickle my geer , He leaves me to sighs and shed many a tear . At first he did love me , and kindness did show , Now who would have thought he'd served me so ! I thought my self sure , I'ld a laid my sweet life , That he had intended to make me his wife , Had I not believed it , as sure as I am here , Young Thomas should never have tickled my geer . I gave him a taste of the pleasure of night , In hope's to allure him with love and delight , And that he should think me a heaven of charms , When melting he lay in my languishing arms . For this very reason , as sure as I am here , I suffered young Thomas to tickle my geer . My maidenhead's gone , and in-faith let it go , For now I am eased of that burden you know ; Some journeyman shoemaker , friends I may wed , Who never had skill in a true maidenhead . He'll count me a virgin , and call me his dear , Though Thomas the baker first tickled my geer . His ANSWER . I tell thee , sweet creature , it is but in vain , In sorrowful tears thus to sign and complain ; For as I am here , a true baker by trade , Whoever I marry she shall be a Maid . But since you beforehand was free to be tried , You must not expect for to be my sweet bride . I love a young Lass that is virtuous and wise , But she that is wanton , I hate and despise ; Perhaps I the minute of pleasure may take , And when that is over , the lass I forsake . Though you may entreat me . your suit is denied ; No lass that is wanton shall ever be my bride . I courted you once for the fountain of bliss , The which was denied me no more than a kiss ; Now finding that you was beforehand so kind , I straightways concluded to altar my mind . I thought you right virtuous before I had tried , But now I do tell you , you shant be my bride . It's like I may do you what kindness I can , To help you ever long to some innocent man , A husband with silver and gold in his purse , Who freely will take you for better for worse . What he never see love , his heart will not rue , And so at the present sweet creature adieu . London : Printed for TO --- H --- , in the Friars , 1693. THE Young Lass's Lamentation : CONTAINING HER Melancholy Moan for the loss of her Maidenhead . To which is added , The Young MAN's Answer ; concluding with his kind Promise , in helping her to a Husband to make her Amends . To the Tune of , Found Boy . Her COMPLAINT . I Am a young damsel this day in distress , Who has a sad sorrowful tale to express , And therefore good people pray hear my complaint : Young Thomas the baker I took for a saint ; But since I did let him once tickle my geer , He leaves me to sighs and shed many a tear . At first he did love me , and kindness did show , Now who would have thought he'd served me so ! I thought my self sure , I'ld a laid my sweet life , That he had intended to make me his wife , Had I not believed it , as sure as I am here , Young Thomas should never have tickled my geer . I gave him a taste of the pleasure of night , In hope's to allure him with love and delight , And that he should think me a heaven of charms , When melting he lay in my languishing arms . For this very reason , as sure as I am here , I suffered young Thomas to tickle my geer . My maidenhead's gone , and in-faith let it go , For now I am eased of that burden you know ; Some journeyman shoemaker , friends I may wed , Who never had skill in a true maidenhead . He'll count me a virgin , and call me his dear , Though Thomas the baker first tickled my geer . His ANSWER . I tell thee , sweet creature , it is but in vain , In sorrowful tears thus to sign and complain ; For as I am here , a true baker by trade , Whoever I marry she shall be a Maid . But since you beforehand was free to be tried , You must not expect for to be my sweet bride . I love a young Lass that is virtuous and wise , But she that is wanton , I hate and despise ; Perhaps I the minute of pleasure may take , And when that is over , the lass I forsake . Though you may entreat me . your suit is denied ; No lass that is wanton shall ever be my bride . I courted you once for the fountain of bliss , The which was denied me no more than a kiss ; Now finding that you was beforehand so kind , I straightways concluded to altar my mind . I thought you right virtuous before I had tried , But now I do tell you , you shant be my bride . It's like I may do you what kindness I can , To help you ever long to some innocent man , A husband with silver and gold in his purse , Who freely will take you for better for worse . What he never see love , his heart will not rue , And so at the present sweet creature adieu . London : Printed for TO --- H --- , in the Friars , 1693. 