THE Lovesick Shepherd Cured . OR , THE Longing Shepherdess joy completed . Being a Pastoral Dialogue between a Shepherd and Shepherdess . Tune of We all to Conquering Beauty bow : Or , I never saw a Face till now . Shepherdess . TEll me , Oh Shepherd , why so sad , you sighing fit alone , You that was once the blithest Lad , in mirth excelled you none , When on your Pipe you used to play , which made the Groves to Ring , And oft to Drive sad care away , would dance and sweetly sing . Shepherd . Ah! true alas ! fair Shepherdess , I did in that delight , B ut Fortune , envious of my bliss , hath turned my Day to Night , Regardless of all sports and play , grief seizes every part , Instead of songs , sad sighs find way from my overburdened heart . Shepherdess . Ah ! S hephard I pity thy smart , and dought it does proceed F rome the God of love , or Cupid is dart , which makes poor L overs bleed ; Then tell to me , without delay , and do not unkind prove , Thy pale and wan Cheeks seem to say , S hepherd , thou art in love . Shepherd . I need not tell , dear Shepherdess , the Cause of all my pain , My sighs , and tears , they do express , what I would hide in vain ; L ove is the cause of all my grief , which now I do endure , And love only can yield relief my L ove-sick heart to cure . Shepherdess . [ Cruel ] is she that can deny [ so true a ] loving Swain , [ Happy is she ] , most certainly , [ that ] your affections gain ; Who is that happy fair one then that does enjoy thy heart ? Cruel , if she'll not love again , but causes all thy smart . Shepherd . Dear Shepherdess , thy Charming eyes did then my heart betray , And , in L oves fetters , did surprise , and boar my heart away ; But , loath for to reveal my Grief , fearing you would deny , Ah! if you do not yield relief , your Shepherd then must die . Shepherdess . Ah! Shepherd , can it then be true , which now with joy I hear , My heart is only fixed on you , thou art to me as dear . L ong have I loved thee , but ah ! fate , we Maidens must not woo , B ut now all grief to expiate , I'll M arry none but you . Shepherd . What unexpected joy is this does fill my L ove-sick heart ! A joy with hope of further bliss , possesses every part , Though love in sorrow oft before did make me to complain , Now love does all my joys restore , and makes me glad again . P rinted for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Lovesick Shepherd Cured . OR , THE Longing Shepherdess joy completed . Being a Pastoral Dialogue between a Shepherd and Shepherdess . Tune of We all to Conquering Beauty bow : Or , I never saw a Face till now . Shepherdess . TEll me , Oh Shepherd , why so sad , you sighing fit alone , You that was once the blithest Lad , in mirth excelled you none , When on your Pipe you used to play , which made the Groves to Ring , And oft to Drive sad care away , would dance and sweetly sing . Shepherd . Ah! true alas ! fair Shepherdess , I did in that delight , B ut Fortune , envious of my bliss , hath turned my Day to Night , Regardless of all sports and play , grief seizes every part , Instead of songs , sad sighs find way from my overburdened heart . Shepherdess . Ah ! S hephard I pity thy smart , and dought it does proceed F rome the God of love , or Cupid is dart , which makes poor L overs bleed ; Then tell to me , without delay , and do not unkind prove , Thy pale and wan Cheeks seem to say , S hepherd , thou art in love . Shepherd . I need not tell , dear Shepherdess , the Cause of all my pain , My sighs , and tears , they do express , what I would hide in vain ; L ove is the cause of all my grief , which now I do endure , And love only can yield relief my L ove-sick heart to cure . Shepherdess . [ Cruel ] is she that can deny [ so true a ] loving Swain , [ Happy is she ] , most certainly , [ that ] your affections gain ; Who is that happy fair one then that does enjoy thy heart ? Cruel , if she'll not love again , but causes all thy smart . Shepherd . Dear Shepherdess , thy Charming eyes did then my heart betray , And , in L oves fetters , did surprise , and boar my heart away ; But , loath for to reveal my Grief , fearing you would deny , Ah! if you do not yield relief , your Shepherd then must die . Shepherdess . Ah! Shepherd , can it then be true , which now with joy I hear , My heart is only fixed on you , thou art to me as dear . L ong have I loved thee , but ah ! fate , we Maidens must not woo , B ut now all grief to expiate , I'll M arry none but you . Shepherd . What unexpected joy is this does fill my L ove-sick heart ! A joy with hope of further bliss , possesses every part , Though love in sorrow oft before did make me to complain , Now love does all my joys restore , and makes me glad again . P rinted for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 