And Answer to the Covetous-Minded Parents : OR , The Youngman's Resolution to free his Captived Love , at the Hazard of his dearest Life . To the Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . MY Youthful Charming Fair , and Sweetest Jewel , I solemnly declare ( though Friends are cruel ) Thy wrongs I soon will right , could I come near thee , And study day and night how I might Clear thee . Though they so close confine my dear , and grieve thee , Yet in these Arms of mine I'll soon receive thee , Strong Locks and Bars I'll brake where soon I'll enter , For my sweet Creatures sake my Life I'll venture . It's not thy Father's Frown ever shall affright me , Thy days with joy I'll Crown who never did slight me , What though vast heaps of Gold I a'ned possessing ; True Love is still , behold , a greater Blessing . Parents we often find greedy for Treasure , They love the golden Mine here out of measure , It bears so great a sway in every Actium ; That Loyal Lovers they meet with distraction . Being compelled to Wed merely for Riches , The Palsy Hoary head thus Coin bewitches , Some Parents who has now Treasure Possessing , Children must break their vow , or loose their blessing . Gray has more Wealth than I Yet she'll not waver , But yet her Parents cry , I shall not have her , This is as if , behold , my dearest Honey , Was to be bought and sold by price of Money . Yet my sweet charming Saint , never will leave me , Her sighs and sad complaint daily does grieve me , She shall not languish long , I vow to see her , Soon to redress her wrong , I'll die , or free her . This wretched Misers Bags , are his best graces , Mixed with diseased dregs , of loath worser Embraces : Yet though her Friends contrive thus to annoy her . While I remain alive , he shan't enjoy her ? If Friends with anger fraught , clearly forsake her , so that she han't a Groat , yet will I make her , My Lawful Bride , said he , and never refrain her By true industry , I can maintain her . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . And Answer to the Covetous-Minded Parents : OR , The Youngman's Resolution to free his Captived Love , at the Hazard of his dearest Life . To the Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . MY Youthful Charming Fair , and Sweetest Jewel , I solemnly declare ( though Friends are cruel ) Thy wrongs I soon will right , could I come near thee , And study day and night how I might Clear thee . Though they so close confine my dear , and grieve thee , Yet in these Arms of mine I'll soon receive thee , Strong Locks and Bars I'll brake where soon I'll enter , For my sweet Creatures sake my Life I'll venture . It's not thy Father's Frown ever shall affright me , Thy days with joy I'll Crown who never did slight me , What though vast heaps of Gold I a'ned possessing ; True Love is still , behold , a greater Blessing . Parents we often find greedy for Treasure , They love the golden Mine here out of measure , It bears so great a sway in every Actium ; That Loyal Lovers they meet with distraction . Being compelled to Wed merely for Riches , The Palsy Hoary head thus Coin bewitches , Some Parents who has now Treasure Possessing , Children must break their vow , or loose their blessing . Gray has more Wealth than I Yet she'll not waver , But yet her Parents cry , I shall not have her , This is as if , behold , my dearest Honey , Was to be bought and sold by price of Money . Yet my sweet charming Saint , never will leave me , Her sighs and sad complaint daily does grieve me , She shall not languish long , I vow to see her , Soon to redress her wrong , I'll die , or free her . This wretched Misers Bags , are his best graces , Mixed with diseased dregs , of loath worser Embraces : Yet though her Friends contrive thus to annoy her . While I remain alive , he shan't enjoy her ? If Friends with anger fraught , clearly forsake her , so that she han't a Groat , yet will I make her , My Lawful Bride , said he , and never refrain her By true industry , I can maintain her . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 