The Languishing LADY ; Or , The Falsehearted Lovers Unspeakable Cruelty . To and excellent New Tune . WElcome Death , the Cure of all my sorrow , thou alone canst give me ease ; Of all the Delights my Senses ever did borrow , none could ever my Fancy please : Since Love has Transported me so in Sadness , that I Languish and Despair ; In all the degrees of Love I find a Madness , which causes all my Grief and Care . II When first these Eyes of mine did view him , Oh how my heart was inflamed to Love ; I lost my senses ever since I knew him , since he to me does unconstant prove : Love that transports me so in sadness , makes me languish and complain , Oh cruel Cupid , come and ease my Madness , let me no longer grieve in vain . III . Farewell Joy , and farewell Pleasure , farewell all things of Delight ; For of Sorrow I have had my measure , unto all I bid Goodnight : Farewell to him , the cause of my weeping , I hope he never will thrive in Love ; And she that has got his heart in keeping , may she for ever unconstant prove . IV. Thus shall my bleeding wrongs be righted , while I range the silent shade , And my ungrateful love be requited , who my yielding heart betrayed : Long was I Wooed before I consented unto the thoughts of Love , said she ; Till he in sorrowful sighs lamented , blaming me for my Cruelty . VI . Now when I herd his mournful Ditty , wh [ i ] le in sights he did complain , I was immediately moved to pity , granting love for love again : But I have found him now most deceitful , I of his presence am denied , Never was Lover sure so ungrateful , as he has been to me , she cried . VII . Did he not once admire my Beauty , and did solemnly declare , That he did count it a Damsels Duty , to be full as Kind as Fair : Then in his Arms he'd freely receive me , saying he did my Charms adore ; Yet after all , he does slight and leave me , was ever Man so false before ? VIII . He little knows what bitter anguish does my drooping Spirits seize ; Here in this Bower I lie and languish , shall I never be at ease ! Yes , when I in the Grave lie a sleeping , then my false love may wish in vain , Yet neither sorrowful sighs , nor weeping , ever can recall me back again . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield . The Languishing LADY ; Or , The Falsehearted Lovers Unspeakable Cruelty . To and excellent New Tune . WElcome Death , the Cure of all my sorrow , thou alone canst give me ease ; Of all the Delights my Senses ever did borrow , none could ever my Fancy please : Since Love has Transported me so in Sadness , that I Languish and Despair ; In all the degrees of Love I find a Madness , which causes all my Grief and Care . II When first these Eyes of mine did view him , Oh how my heart was inflamed to Love ; I lost my senses ever since I knew him , since he to me does unconstant prove : Love that transports me so in sadness , makes me languish and complain , Oh cruel Cupid , come and ease my Madness , let me no longer grieve in vain . III . Farewell Joy , and farewell Pleasure , farewell all things of Delight ; For of Sorrow I have had my measure , unto all I bid Goodnight : Farewell to him , the cause of my weeping , I hope he never will thrive in Love ; And she that has got his heart in keeping , may she for ever unconstant prove . IV. Thus shall my bleeding wrongs be righted , while I range the silent shade , And my ungrateful love be requited , who my yielding heart betrayed : Long was I Wooed before I consented unto the thoughts of Love , said she ; Till he in sorrowful sighs lamented , blaming me for my Cruelty . VI . Now when I herd his mournful Ditty , wh [ i ] le in sights he did complain , I was immediately moved to pity , granting love for love again : But I have found him now most deceitful , I of his presence am denied , Never was Lover sure so ungrateful , as he has been to me , she cried . VII . Did he not once admire my Beauty , and did solemnly declare , That he did count it a Damsels Duty , to be full as Kind as Fair : Then in his Arms he'd freely receive me , saying he did my Charms adore ; Yet after all , he does slight and leave me , was ever Man so false before ? VIII . He little knows what bitter anguish does my drooping Spirits seize ; Here in this Bower I lie and languish , shall I never be at ease ! Yes , when I in the Grave lie a sleeping , then my false love may wish in vain , Yet neither sorrowful sighs , nor weeping , ever can recall me back again . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield . 