The Frantic Shepherd : OR , FLOROMELLO ' s Matchless Cruelty . To and Excellent New Tune : or , Only tell her , etc Licensed according to Order . I . MUst I wear the Wreathe of Willow , tell me now you Gods on high ? Or will fairest Floromello love so mean a Swain as I ? Can she the cool Shades admire , and my Rural , Oaten Reed ? Can she quit her rich Attire , for a homely Shepherd's Weed . II If she will , I must adore her , for there's none so fair as she : Cupid is sweets shall fallen before her , own for her for a Deity : Every Golden Bow and Quiver , at her Feet they low shall lay , Yielding true Submission ever and her awful Will obey . III . Her desiring youthful Beauty , make it lawful they should give Floromello Love and Duty while she has a day to live ; Who with Love can Man inspire , with the Glances from her Eyes ; I her Virtues do admire , more than any Golden Prize . IV. Oh you Gods ! I do implore you for to stand a Shepherd's Friend ; Here in Sighs I fallen before you , let my Sorrows have and end . Tell her how I dearly love her , like a faithful Loyal Swain , Let me her sweet Smiles discover , to restore my Joys again . V. When in Shades I did behold her , like a Saint she did appear ; Then when melting Tears I told her , that my Grief was most severe : Captive-like I did entreat her for to give some present ease ; For why should so sweet a Creature , let me tell such Griefs as these ? VI . When the Shades I first frequented , then my Heart from Tears was free , But I soon to Love consented , then I lost my Liberty : Day and Night I spend in weeping , since I see my Charming Saint , Who has my kind Heart in keeping , seems to laugh at my Complaint . VII . Rather then I would demean her , many Death's I could endure ; Yes would I had never seen her , so should I have lived secure , On the Plains with Peace and Pleasure , where my little Lambs I fed , But my Grief is out of measure , all those happy days are fled . VIII . This sad Grief which I lie under , robs me of my Senses quite ; Thus in frantic Fits I wander over Mountains day and night . The cold Earth is now my Pillow , when I to a slumber go , It's my fairest Floromello that has caused all this Woe . Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . The Frantic Shepherd : OR , FLOROMELLO ' s Matchless Cruelty . To and Excellent New Tune : or , Only tell her , etc Licensed according to Order . I . MUst I wear the Wreathe of Willow , tell me now you Gods on high ? Or will fairest Floromello love so mean a Swain as I ? Can she the cool Shades admire , and my Rural , Oaten Reed ? Can she quit her rich Attire , for a homely Shepherd's Weed . II If she will , I must adore her , for there's none so fair as she : Cupid is sweets shall fallen before her , own for her for a Deity : Every Golden Bow and Quiver , at her Feet they low shall lay , Yielding true Submission ever and her awful Will obey . III . Her desiring youthful Beauty , make it lawful they should give Floromello Love and Duty while she has a day to live ; Who with Love can Man inspire , with the Glances from her Eyes ; I her Virtues do admire , more than any Golden Prize . IV. Oh you Gods ! I do implore you for to stand a Shepherd's Friend ; Here in Sighs I fallen before you , let my Sorrows have and end . Tell her how I dearly love her , like a faithful Loyal Swain , Let me her sweet Smiles discover , to restore my Joys again . V. When in Shades I did behold her , like a Saint she did appear ; Then when melting Tears I told her , that my Grief was most severe : Captive-like I did entreat her for to give some present ease ; For why should so sweet a Creature , let me tell such Griefs as these ? VI . When the Shades I first frequented , then my Heart from Tears was free , But I soon to Love consented , then I lost my Liberty : Day and Night I spend in weeping , since I see my Charming Saint , Who has my kind Heart in keeping , seems to laugh at my Complaint . VII . Rather then I would demean her , many Death's I could endure ; Yes would I had never seen her , so should I have lived secure , On the Plains with Peace and Pleasure , where my little Lambs I fed , But my Grief is out of measure , all those happy days are fled . VIII . This sad Grief which I lie under , robs me of my Senses quite ; Thus in frantic Fits I wander over Mountains day and night . The cold Earth is now my Pillow , when I to a slumber go , It's my fairest Floromello that has caused all this Woe . Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 