THE Youngman's Lamentation , OR , Love and Loyalty Rewarded with Cruelty . To and Excellent New Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . I Am so sick of Love , I can neither stand nor go , But like a Drunken Reeling man , I waver too and from . II My heart is as heavy as Led , and as Cold as the Marble-Stone ; And now my true love is from me fled , and where shall I make my Moan ? III . For Love is a little Dwarf , and Love is a Giant tall , And Love is King in every thing , Love Conquers one and all . IV. The Champion in the Field , may stand by force of Arms , But yet he must submit and yield to Loves alluring Charms . V. I fancied a Lass of late , and prized her more dear than Gold , B ut now she has chosen another Mate , and left me in Cupid's Fold . VI . H er Frowns I did daily bear , and never could a Smile obtain , My innocent heart is killed with care , while she did Tyrant Reign . VII . My Person she did abuse , reviled me many a time , Y et I my dearest could excuse , and pardon her greatest Crime . VIII . For Love it will spy no fault , nor Love it will see no since , But every corner of my heart , Love gently creeps in . IX . O gentle God of L ove , come ease me of my smart , And heal this killing Wound you gave , that bleeds within my heart . X. My passion I cannot bear , my blessings are turned to grief , Oh do not suffer me to despair , but yield me some relief . XI . Sweet Cupid now be so kind , to send Arrows from thy Bow , And make her now to love be inclinded , whither she will or no . XII . Which will my blessings increase , and I with Comfort be Crowned , And you a Captive will release , who in his Fetters lies bound . XIII , But if that you can't confine my dearest to love again , Shoot home into this heart of mine , for why should I live in Pain . XIII . I willingly would repair unto the Eliziums sweet , Among the wronged Lovers there , my Injuries to repeat . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE Youngman's Lamentation , OR , Love and Loyalty Rewarded with Cruelty . To and Excellent New Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . I Am so sick of Love , I can neither stand nor go , But like a Drunken Reeling man , I waver too and from . II My heart is as heavy as Led , and as Cold as the Marble-Stone ; And now my true love is from me fled , and where shall I make my Moan ? III . For Love is a little Dwarf , and Love is a Giant tall , And Love is King in every thing , Love Conquers one and all . IV. The Champion in the Field , may stand by force of Arms , But yet he must submit and yield to Loves alluring Charms . V. I fancied a Lass of late , and prized her more dear than Gold , B ut now she has chosen another Mate , and left me in Cupid's Fold . VI . H er Frowns I did daily bear , and never could a Smile obtain , My innocent heart is killed with care , while she did Tyrant Reign . VII . My Person she did abuse , reviled me many a time , Y et I my dearest could excuse , and pardon her greatest Crime . VIII . For Love it will spy no fault , nor Love it will see no since , But every corner of my heart , Love gently creeps in . IX . O gentle God of L ove , come ease me of my smart , And heal this killing Wound you gave , that bleeds within my heart . X. My passion I cannot bear , my blessings are turned to grief , Oh do not suffer me to despair , but yield me some relief . XI . Sweet Cupid now be so kind , to send Arrows from thy Bow , And make her now to love be inclinded , whither she will or no . XII . Which will my blessings increase , and I with Comfort be Crowned , And you a Captive will release , who in his Fetters lies bound . XIII , But if that you can't confine my dearest to love again , Shoot home into this heart of mine , for why should I live in Pain . XIII . I willingly would repair unto the Eliziums sweet , Among the wronged Lovers there , my Injuries to repeat . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 