The Young-Mans Lamentation : BEING And Answer to the Maid that Died for Love in Wood's-Close , near St. John's-Street : Together with his earnest desire to leave this Life , and follow his L ove to the Grave . Tune of , Celia , etc Licensed according to Order . I . IS my sweetest Creature Dead , With whom I did engage to Wed ? Did I leave her , and deceive her , is she to Elizium fled ? Then farewell all Joy and Pleasure , I have wronged her out of measure : Then farewell , etc II Conscience now afflicts me so , And tell me still where ever I go , I was Cruel to my Jewel , which has proved her overthrow : She is Dead and gone before me , Who so dearly did adore me . She is Dead , etc III . Here I live in Grief and Pain , And am not able to contain This sharp sorrow , which flows thorough my poor heart , and e'ry Vein ; Oh that I had never offended , Then our Glory had not ended . O that I had , etc IV. Let me Die , and come to thee , For here no Comfort can I see , Dearest Mary , I am weary of my wretched Life , said he ; No one knows what I lie under , Stubborn heart now break in sunder . No one knows , etc V. To the World I do declare , This Torment I can never bear ; I that filled thee , nay , and killed thee , with the Dart of sad Despair ; And am guilty of thy Ruin , Therefore Sorrows are ensuing . And am guilty , etc VI . Still the more I call to mind , How once I was to Love inclined , When I Wooed her , to delude her , it's as if I then designed , By Delusion to deceive her , And in grief and sorrow leave her . By Delusion , etc VII . Here I wander too and from , While melting Eyes like Fountains flow Heart relenting , still lamenting , while my Lover lies full low : I am Night and Day Tormented , All this I might have prevented . I am Night and Day , etc VIII . When I took another Bride , Poor heart , her grief she could not hide , But in Anguish , did she languish , till at length , alas ! she Died : Often Weeping , Sighing Crying , Love , I for thy sake my Dying . Often Weeping , etc IX . In my Chamber all alone , Methinks I hear her piteous Moan : Often crying , Life is flying , saying , with a Dying Groan , It's too late , I now am going , While my Dying Eyes are flowing , It's too late . etc X. Many frightful Slumbers too , My grief and sorrow does renew ; Death attend me , and befriend me , let my Days and Months be few : Fain I would , alas ! Expire , And i'th Grave be Buried by her . Fain I would , alas ! etc Printed for C. Bates , near the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Young-Mans Lamentation : BEING And Answer to the Maid that Died for Love in Wood's-Close , near St. John's-Street : Together with his earnest desire to leave this Life , and follow his L ove to the Grave . Tune of , Celia , etc Licensed according to Order . I . IS my sweetest Creature Dead , With whom I did engage to Wed ? Did I leave her , and deceive her , is she to Elizium fled ? Then farewell all Joy and Pleasure , I have wronged her out of measure : Then farewell , etc II Conscience now afflicts me so , And tell me still where ever I go , I was Cruel to my Jewel , which has proved her overthrow : She is Dead and gone before me , Who so dearly did adore me . She is Dead , etc III . Here I live in Grief and Pain , And am not able to contain This sharp sorrow , which flows thorough my poor heart , and e'ry Vein ; Oh that I had never offended , Then our Glory had not ended . O that I had , etc IV. Let me Die , and come to thee , For here no Comfort can I see , Dearest Mary , I am weary of my wretched Life , said he ; No one knows what I lie under , Stubborn heart now break in sunder . No one knows , etc V. To the World I do declare , This Torment I can never bear ; I that filled thee , nay , and killed thee , with the Dart of sad Despair ; And am guilty of thy Ruin , Therefore Sorrows are ensuing . And am guilty , etc VI . Still the more I call to mind , How once I was to Love inclined , When I Wooed her , to delude her , it's as if I then designed , By Delusion to deceive her , And in grief and sorrow leave her . By Delusion , etc VII . Here I wander too and from , While melting Eyes like Fountains flow Heart relenting , still lamenting , while my Lover lies full low : I am Night and Day Tormented , All this I might have prevented . I am Night and Day , etc VIII . When I took another Bride , Poor heart , her grief she could not hide , But in Anguish , did she languish , till at length , alas ! she Died : Often Weeping , Sighing Crying , Love , I for thy sake my Dying . Often Weeping , etc IX . In my Chamber all alone , Methinks I hear her piteous Moan : Often crying , Life is flying , saying , with a Dying Groan , It's too late , I now am going , While my Dying Eyes are flowing , It's too late . etc X. Many frightful Slumbers too , My grief and sorrow does renew ; Death attend me , and befriend me , let my Days and Months be few : Fain I would , alas ! Expire , And i'th Grave be Buried by her . Fain I would , alas ! etc Printed for C. Bates , near the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 