The MAIDS Kind ANSWER to the Young-Mans Lamentation , OR , The most Coy Frowns turned to the most pleasing Smiles . To the same Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . AS he was ready to faint , and bid all the World adieu ; The Damsel hearing his complaint , his blessings she did renew . II In sorrow do not lament , these words she often said ; My heart does still relent , to hear the moan you made . III . What though like the Marble-stone , thy heart was heavy and cold , Thou never shalt be overthrown , I'll love thee more dear than Gold . IV. I'll be at my Shepherd's call , and study to honour thee ; If Love has power to conquer all , why may it not conquer me . V. No longer can I conceal true Love from my Loyal Swain ; For why ? the powerful Charms I feel now flowing through every Vein . VI . When as I would not comply to thee whom I did adore , 'Twas but to try thy Constancy , I'll never forsake thee more . VII . Thy true L ove and Loyalty , the Gordian Knot has tied : Now through the world I'll go with thee , whatever shall me betide . VIII . I'll bend now to Cupid is Bow , and cast all my frowns away , For Love commands me to do so , and therefore I will obey . IX . With Blessings thou shalt be crowned , and all my favours regain Likewise I'll heal the bleeding wound , of which thou didst once complain . X. I'll honour my dearest Love , and never will thee offend , And here within this shady Grove , in pleasure our days we'll spend . XI . And while our Lambs does feed here by the delightful Spring , Together we'll in Love proceed , while Birds sweet Anthe [ m ] s sing . XII . I will curl thy silken Locks , which are so soft and fair , And while we tend our harmless flocks , we will live void of care . XIII . Unto the Elizium shade , my dearest shall never go , For true Love does my heart invade , it must and shall be so . XIV . This did his Joys restore , his griefs were gone and passed , They vowed never to sever more , so long as life should last . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street [ - ] J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . J. Back at the Black Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . The MAIDS Kind ANSWER to the Young-Mans Lamentation , OR , The most Coy Frowns turned to the most pleasing Smiles . To the same Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . AS he was ready to faint , and bid all the World adieu ; The Damsel hearing his complaint , his blessings she did renew . II In sorrow do not lament , these words she often said ; My heart does still relent , to hear the moan you made . III . What though like the Marble-stone , thy heart was heavy and cold , Thou never shalt be overthrown , I'll love thee more dear than Gold . IV. I'll be at my Shepherd's call , and study to honour thee ; If Love has power to conquer all , why may it not conquer me . V. No longer can I conceal true Love from my Loyal Swain ; For why ? the powerful Charms I feel now flowing through every Vein . VI . When as I would not comply to thee whom I did adore , 'Twas but to try thy Constancy , I'll never forsake thee more . VII . Thy true L ove and Loyalty , the Gordian Knot has tied : Now through the world I'll go with thee , whatever shall me betide . VIII . I'll bend now to Cupid is Bow , and cast all my frowns away , For Love commands me to do so , and therefore I will obey . IX . With Blessings thou shalt be crowned , and all my favours regain Likewise I'll heal the bleeding wound , of which thou didst once complain . X. I'll honour my dearest Love , and never will thee offend , And here within this shady Grove , in pleasure our days we'll spend . XI . And while our Lambs does feed here by the delightful Spring , Together we'll in Love proceed , while Birds sweet Anthe [ m ] s sing . XII . I will curl thy silken Locks , which are so soft and fair , And while we tend our harmless flocks , we will live void of care . XIII . Unto the Elizium shade , my dearest shall never go , For true Love does my heart invade , it must and shall be so . XIV . This did his Joys restore , his griefs were gone and passed , They vowed never to sever more , so long as life should last . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street [ - ] J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . J. Back at the Black Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . 