SEFAUTIAN's Farewell : OR , Fair SILVIA'S Matchless [ Cr ] uelty , To and E xcellent New Tune : Or , Sefautian is Farewell . I . HOpe Farewell , adieu to all Pleasure , no Torment so great , as Love with Despair ; S [ ilv ] in Frowns , my endeavour's to please her , and Laughs at those pains she makes me to bear : Life's my Disease , and there is no Cure but Death's cruel Dart , that must set me at ease ; When I'm no more , then may she grieve for him , who while living she never would relieve . II In the World so Charming a Creature , my Fancy tells me I never beheld ; Splendid Beauty is Grace in each Feature , that with Love-Raptures I strangely am filled : Here I lie slave , with Darts of disdain , While Silvia is hard heart will not pity my pain ; But let her know for this her Hate , She may much Repent it when as it is too late . III . Can you be so desperate Cruel , as for your sake to let Death by my Doom ? Love is like the Unquenchable Fuel , in which all my Glory and Life will consume : Still you despise my sorrowful Cries , And over your Lover does still Tyrannise ; But when kind Death shall set me free , You may be Rewarded for this your Cruelty . IV. When the World shall read this sad Story , which here I Write with a trembling Quill ; Showing how you have blasted my Glory , Oh! will they not count you a Tyrant still : Then let me find , my Silvia more kind , To comfort and cherish my troubled mind For if I go , to the Shades below , It's you are the cause of my final overthrow . V. Oh my Grief is never lamented by she whom I do so dearly adore ; With her Frowns I am worser [ a ] yly Tormented , no Creature for Love sure , did ever suffer more : CUPID's keen Dart , has wounded my heart , I never , no , never , did feel greater smart ; Here a poor Slave , one Smile does crave , Or else you will send him soon to the silent Grave . VI . In your Charms I dearly delighted , and ever thought you my Heaven to be ; Yet by you I was evermore slighted , and now you make a poor Martyr of me : Won't you therefore , your Captive restore , Who sues for your Love , and desires no more ? You may be sure , pains I endure , And it's in your power either to Kill or Cure . VII . In a sad and sorrowful Ditty , with S ighs and Tears I have sent forth my moan ; Yet my fair one affords me no pity , but lets me languish to Death all alone : This very Day , now I must away , Both strength , heart and spirits , with life , does decay More then untrue , Silvia was you , And therefore farewell , for I bid the World Adieu . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J , Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 1688. SEFAUTIAN's Farewell : OR , Fair SILVIA'S Matchless [ Cr ] uelty , To and E xcellent New Tune : Or , Sefautian is Farewell . I . HOpe Farewell , adieu to all Pleasure , no Torment so great , as Love with Despair ; S [ ilv ] in Frowns , my endeavour's to please her , and Laughs at those pains she makes me to bear : Life's my Disease , and there is no Cure but Death's cruel Dart , that must set me at ease ; When I'm no more , then may she grieve for him , who while living she never would relieve . II In the World so Charming a Creature , my Fancy tells me I never beheld ; Splendid Beauty is Grace in each Feature , that with Love-Raptures I strangely am filled : Here I lie slave , with Darts of disdain , While Silvia is hard heart will not pity my pain ; But let her know for this her Hate , She may much Repent it when as it is too late . III . Can you be so desperate Cruel , as for your sake to let Death by my Doom ? Love is like the Unquenchable Fuel , in which all my Glory and Life will consume : Still you despise my sorrowful Cries , And over your Lover does still Tyrannise ; But when kind Death shall set me free , You may be Rewarded for this your Cruelty . IV. When the World shall read this sad Story , which here I Write with a trembling Quill ; Showing how you have blasted my Glory , Oh! will they not count you a Tyrant still : Then let me find , my Silvia more kind , To comfort and cherish my troubled mind For if I go , to the Shades below , It's you are the cause of my final overthrow . V. Oh my Grief is never lamented by she whom I do so dearly adore ; With her Frowns I am worser [ a ] yly Tormented , no Creature for Love sure , did ever suffer more : CUPID's keen Dart , has wounded my heart , I never , no , never , did feel greater smart ; Here a poor Slave , one Smile does crave , Or else you will send him soon to the silent Grave . VI . In your Charms I dearly delighted , and ever thought you my Heaven to be ; Yet by you I was evermore slighted , and now you make a poor Martyr of me : Won't you therefore , your Captive restore , Who sues for your Love , and desires no more ? You may be sure , pains I endure , And it's in your power either to Kill or Cure . VII . In a sad and sorrowful Ditty , with S ighs and Tears I have sent forth my moan ; Yet my fair one affords me no pity , but lets me languish to Death all alone : This very Day , now I must away , Both strength , heart and spirits , with life , does decay More then untrue , Silvia was you , And therefore farewell , for I bid the World Adieu . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J , Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 1688. 