The Disconsolate LOVER : OR , THE Forsaken Damsel's Sad Lamentation FOR Her Unkind Lover's Cruelty , IN Forsaking her , after many Vows , for one more Wealthy . To and excellent new Tune . FArewel my dear Johnny whom I loved so , Your absence to me has created my Woe , Because I believed your flattering Tongue , Which deceitfully left me in Sorrow undone : But I will forgive you with all my whole Heart , [ You ] tO cursed be the minuit and time we did part , [ O ] f all Men that's living your false as God's true , [ TO ] herefore my dear Johnny i'll bid thee adieu ; For since I do find you both false and unkind , I'll set you as light as the wavering Wind ; My Portion , it seems , was too slender , therefore You seek for another with plentiful store . God send you more Money , and I better Grace , I hope to prepare for a far better place , Where flattering Lovers can never molest My Happiness , being for ever at Rest. Remember , dear Love , there's a Day for to come , On which you must answer for all you have done , In making such large Protestations to me ; Oh! pardon dear Jewel , as I pardon thee . No Trouble or Torture my Sorrow excels , Yet God bless my Dearest wherever he dwells , I wish he may live to repent of the Wrong Which I have sustained by his flattering Tongue : I pity my Love for his covetous Mind , Which was the first cause of his proving unkind , His Promise he broke for a Fortune that's great , I wish that he does not repent it too late : My Love may grow Wealthy and flourish a while , So long as kind Fortune is pleased to smile ; But if she should frown upon him after all , He then may be sorry to think of my Fallen . Where nothing but Riches their Hearts does unite , When these common Blessings shall chance to take flight , Their tender affections does often wax cold , True Love is far better then Pledges of Gold , For where it is rooted , it still will remain Like to a firm Rock , or a powerful Chain , Which no kind of envy or malice shall break , The true Love can die for the true Lover's sake . If Johnny had been but so true to his Dear , Oh! then had my Sorrows not been so severe ; But I must complain of his being unjust ; Oh! where is the Man that a Maiden can trust ? He once did admire my beautiful Charms , But now there's another to lodge in his Arms , While I the green Garland of Willow must wear , And languish almost at the point of despair : I strive to forget it as much as I can , Yet nevertheless when I think on the Man , How he with his flattering tongue did deceive My innocent Heart , then in Sorrow I grieve . Alone in my Closet there weeping I fit , And find that I cannot so easy forget , That love which is rooted and lodged in my Heart , 'Twas pleasure to meet , but a sorrow to part . Could I be but freed from the fetters of Love , I solemnly swear by the Powers above , This firm Resolution I'ld readily make , Never to believe a young Man for his sake . Be careful young Lasses what ever you do , lest flattering Bachelors ruinate you ; By woeful experience , alas , I may say , They study young innocent Maids to betray . London : Printed for E. Tracy , at the Three Bibles on London-bridge . The Disconsolate LOVER : OR , THE Forsaken Damsel's Sad Lamentation FOR Her Unkind Lover's Cruelty , IN Forsaking her , after many Vows , for one more Wealthy . To and excellent new Tune . FArewel my dear Johnny whom I loved so , Your absence to me has created my Woe , Because I believed your flattering Tongue , Which deceitfully left me in Sorrow undone : But I will forgive you with all my whole Heart , [ You ] tO cursed be the minuit and time we did part , [ O ] f all Men that's living your false as God's true , [ TO ] herefore my dear Johnny i'll bid thee adieu ; For since I do find you both false and unkind , I'll set you as light as the wavering Wind ; My Portion , it seems , was too slender , therefore You seek for another with plentiful store . God send you more Money , and I better Grace , I hope to prepare for a far better place , Where flattering Lovers can never molest My Happiness , being for ever at Rest. Remember , dear Love , there's a Day for to come , On which you must answer for all you have done , In making such large Protestations to me ; Oh! pardon dear Jewel , as I pardon thee . No Trouble or Torture my Sorrow excels , Yet God bless my Dearest wherever he dwells , I wish he may live to repent of the Wrong Which I have sustained by his flattering Tongue : I pity my Love for his covetous Mind , Which was the first cause of his proving unkind , His Promise he broke for a Fortune that's great , I wish that he does not repent it too late : My Love may grow Wealthy and flourish a while , So long as kind Fortune is pleased to smile ; But if she should frown upon him after all , He then may be sorry to think of my Fallen . Where nothing but Riches their Hearts does unite , When these common Blessings shall chance to take flight , Their tender affections does often wax cold , True Love is far better then Pledges of Gold , For where it is rooted , it still will remain Like to a firm Rock , or a powerful Chain , Which no kind of envy or malice shall break , The true Love can die for the true Lover's sake . If Johnny had been but so true to his Dear , Oh! then had my Sorrows not been so severe ; But I must complain of his being unjust ; Oh! where is the Man that a Maiden can trust ? He once did admire my beautiful Charms , But now there's another to lodge in his Arms , While I the green Garland of Willow must wear , And languish almost at the point of despair : I strive to forget it as much as I can , Yet nevertheless when I think on the Man , How he with his flattering tongue did deceive My innocent Heart , then in Sorrow I grieve . Alone in my Closet there weeping I fit , And find that I cannot so easy forget , That love which is rooted and lodged in my Heart , 'Twas pleasure to meet , but a sorrow to part . Could I be but freed from the fetters of Love , I solemnly swear by the Powers above , This firm Resolution I'ld readily make , Never to believe a young Man for his sake . Be careful young Lasses what ever you do , lest flattering Bachelors ruinate you ; By woeful experience , alas , I may say , They study young innocent Maids to betray . London : Printed for E. Tracy , at the Three Bibles on London-bridge . 