The Despairing Lovers Complaint FOR CELIAS Unkindness . To and E xcellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . 1. FOrgive me if your looks I thought , Did once some change discover , To be too Jealous is a fault of every tender lover . My looks those kind reproaches show , which you blame so severely , A sign , alas ! you little know , what it's to love sincerely . 2. The torments of a long despair , I did in silence smother , But it's a pain I cannot bear to think you love another . My fate alone depends on you , I am but what you make me , Divinely blessed if you prove true , undone if you forsake me . 3. There is no one but only you , that I do thus admrie , And dearest Celia there's but few , whose love is so entire , Then cease , Oh! cease your cruelty , and prove but kind unto me , Oh do not , do not torture me for fear you quite undo me . 4. What is the reason , cruel Maid , that you do thus deceive me , When oftentimes you promised that you would never leave me , You love to hear me thus complain , and thus to see me languish , You glory , glory in my pain , and triumph in my anguish . 5. Forgive me if I you accuse for loving of another , I think I do not you abuse , since that I do discover Your cruelty to me of late , when I for love implore you , Be kind or cruel , it's my fate , that I must still adore you . 6. But if you any mercy have , come quickly and relieve me , Oh do not , do not dig my grave , but now from death reprieve me , My life or death depends on you , then do not wretched make me , For I shall live if you prove true , but die if you forsake me . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The Despairing Lovers Complaint FOR CELIAS Unkindness . To and E xcellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . 1. FOrgive me if your looks I thought , Did once some change discover , To be too Jealous is a fault of every tender lover . My looks those kind reproaches show , which you blame so severely , A sign , alas ! you little know , what it's to love sincerely . 2. The torments of a long despair , I did in silence smother , But it's a pain I cannot bear to think you love another . My fate alone depends on you , I am but what you make me , Divinely blessed if you prove true , undone if you forsake me . 3. There is no one but only you , that I do thus admrie , And dearest Celia there's but few , whose love is so entire , Then cease , Oh! cease your cruelty , and prove but kind unto me , Oh do not , do not torture me for fear you quite undo me . 4. What is the reason , cruel Maid , that you do thus deceive me , When oftentimes you promised that you would never leave me , You love to hear me thus complain , and thus to see me languish , You glory , glory in my pain , and triumph in my anguish . 5. Forgive me if I you accuse for loving of another , I think I do not you abuse , since that I do discover Your cruelty to me of late , when I for love implore you , Be kind or cruel , it's my fate , that I must still adore you . 6. But if you any mercy have , come quickly and relieve me , Oh do not , do not dig my grave , but now from death reprieve me , My life or death depends on you , then do not wretched make me , For I shall live if you prove true , but die if you forsake me . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 