THE Jolly Seamens Welfare Upon the Ocean , Or , The Landmens Kindness to their WIVES in their Absence . To a Pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to order . WE care not for those Landed Men That do our Trade disdain , We Merchant's Love , who at Sea have been , and do our Trade maintain . From the Top , to the Yard , is our Regard , wheresoever the Wind does blow , To heave the Led , and rule the Helm , as we brave Seamen know . For our Relief , we eat salt Beef , salt Fish , and Biscuit Bred , Whilst you on the shore , with a plentiful store of daintier Dishes are fed . Our Lodging it is both poor , and bore , in our Hammocks , where we lie . We break our sleep ; our Watch for to keep , whither it be Wet or Dry . You Men of the Town , in your Beds of Down , who lie both soft and warm , Whilst we poor Seamen are Cruising the Seas , in many a bitter storm . We Toil , and we Moil , our Cabells to quoil , in danger of our lives . Whilst you on the shore , and a great many more , are a kissing of our Wives . If you such tricks will not give over , expect to have your due , For if ever more we come on shore , we'll then do the like by you . When we put into a Port , or Crick , the first young Lass we spy , We make her squeak , till she springs a Leak , then we pump her , until she's dry . We're so confused when a Storm appears , we scarce know Good from Evil , The Parson's at Prayers , whilst the Boatswain swears , thus we serve both God , and Devil . O then we look like such sad elves , some Crying , and some Frowning , Weed freely promise to hang our selves might we then but be saved from drowning . But when we're sinking the Captain swears , Oh then there's such a Puther , There's some to the Pump , and some to Prayers , and the rest Cursing one another . When our Enemies before us come , Our roaring Guns we level , When we hear the Trumpet , or the Drum , we can fight either Pope or Devil . Our Captain then upon the Deck , with Brandished Sword does stand , And gives the Word to all on board , to fire at his Command . Our Cannons Roar , our Trumpets found , and Echo over the Main , In Warlike Noise , we fight brave Boys , till our Enemies are slave . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . 1691. THE Jolly Seamens Welfare Upon the Ocean , Or , The Landmens Kindness to their WIVES in their Absence . To a Pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to order . WE care not for those Landed Men That do our Trade disdain , We Merchant's Love , who at Sea have been , and do our Trade maintain . From the Top , to the Yard , is our Regard , wheresoever the Wind does blow , To heave the Led , and rule the Helm , as we brave Seamen know . For our Relief , we eat salt Beef , salt Fish , and Biscuit Bred , Whilst you on the shore , with a plentiful store of daintier Dishes are fed . Our Lodging it is both poor , and bore , in our Hammocks , where we lie . We break our sleep ; our Watch for to keep , whither it be Wet or Dry . You Men of the Town , in your Beds of Down , who lie both soft and warm , Whilst we poor Seamen are Cruising the Seas , in many a bitter storm . We Toil , and we Moil , our Cabells to quoil , in danger of our lives . Whilst you on the shore , and a great many more , are a kissing of our Wives . If you such tricks will not give over , expect to have your due , For if ever more we come on shore , we'll then do the like by you . When we put into a Port , or Crick , the first young Lass we spy , We make her squeak , till she springs a Leak , then we pump her , until she's dry . We're so confused when a Storm appears , we scarce know Good from Evil , The Parson's at Prayers , whilst the Boatswain swears , thus we serve both God , and Devil . O then we look like such sad elves , some Crying , and some Frowning , Weed freely promise to hang our selves might we then but be saved from drowning . But when we're sinking the Captain swears , Oh then there's such a Puther , There's some to the Pump , and some to Prayers , and the rest Cursing one another . When our Enemies before us come , Our roaring Guns we level , When we hear the Trumpet , or the Drum , we can fight either Pope or Devil . Our Captain then upon the Deck , with Brandished Sword does stand , And gives the Word to all on board , to fire at his Command . Our Cannons Roar , our Trumpets found , and Echo over the Main , In Warlike Noise , we fight brave Boys , till our Enemies are slave . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . 1691. 