Constancy Lamented : OR , A Warning for Unkind Parents , Not [ tO ] oh separate those who are joined in Love : Being a full and true Account of a Wealthy Tradesman's Son in the Strand , who died on Friday last , for the Grief he conceived in the Absence of his dearly beloved E. H --- k . ( a Herefordshire Damsel ) who was by his Hardhearted Mother , sold to Virginia ; and of the many Arguments the Mother used to persuade this Young - Man to fix his love on some more Wealthy Maiden : With the Mother's sad lamen - tation , and almost Raving Distraction for her Son's Death , and her own most Un - worthy Actium . The whole Published from the Relation of a Worthy young Gentlewoman , a daily Visi - tant of the said young Man's , and a sorrowful mourner for his great mishap . To the Tune of , All happy times , etc Or , Languishing Swain . ALas ! my dearest Dear is gone , And I am left to sighs and moan , To weep and wail , to sighs & amp ; cry , Oh B etty , B etty , I must die . There is no pleasure I can find , Now she is gone : Perplexed in mind I'm rolling on my lovesick bed ; The thoughts of her does strike me dead . Physicians they do come to try Their Doses with great industry : But I tell they all it is in vain , Since B etty is sailing on the main . Nought in the world but sweet Betty , Can ease my mind , or set me free From those distractions which I bear , Her absence for my heart does tear . There is no pleasure , Oh my Dear , That I can find , no comfort here ! But ' frightened Dreams do me surprise , When that dull sleep has shut my eyes , Methinks , my dearest Dear , I see What cruel Frights attends thee : How that thou too and from art tossed , And in great Hazards to be lost . O cruel Mother , and Unkind , Which brought this grief unto my mind , By banishing my dearest Joy , ' TO is only this does me destroy ! Why shoul'st thou love , his mother said A silly poor and serving maid , Whose birth is of some mean degree , Which would bring Scandals unto me . B ehold , my Son , there's Virgins store , Most beautiful , and yet not poor ; Of birth and breeding most complete : My Son , it's these will make thee great . I'ld rather surely see thee dead , Then that thou shouldst my Servant wed , To make her equal unto me , Whose birth is of some poor degree . Wealth ! birth ! ( the Youngman cries ) Alas , alas , are foolish Toys : They do indeed perplex the mind , True Love alone does comfort find . O cruel mother hear I pray , And listen unto what I say ; For your desire you'll surely have To lay me in the silent Grave : For why , I feel now at my heart , Such cruel pain , such bitter smart That long I'm sure I cannot bear Such cruel Tortures as they are . O Neptune , let me thee implore To guard my Love safe to the shore : And though I never must her see , Heavens grant her Felicity . And now , Farewell Mother unkind , You have ruined body and mind ; For to this world I bid adieu And Dying cry , ' This long of you . But when his mother she did see That he was dead assuredly , Like one distracted she did run . Still crying , Oh my Son , my Son. For thee , alas , my heart does bleed , Accursed be my wretched Deed : Could I but have thy life again , I'ld send for Betty over the Main . Therefore you Parents everywhere , Whose chance it is these lines to hear , Do not contend against True Love , For fear you such like Trials prove . London , Printed for Charles B arnet . Constancy Lamented : OR , A Warning for Unkind Parents , Not [ tO ] oh separate those who are joined in Love : Being a full and true Account of a Wealthy Tradesman's Son in the Strand , who died on Friday last , for the Grief he conceived in the Absence of his dearly beloved E. H --- k . ( a Herefordshire Damsel ) who was by his Hardhearted Mother , sold to Virginia ; and of the many Arguments the Mother used to persuade this Young - Man to fix his love on some more Wealthy Maiden : With the Mother's sad lamen - tation , and almost Raving Distraction for her Son's Death , and her own most Un - worthy Actium . The whole Published from the Relation of a Worthy young Gentlewoman , a daily Visi - tant of the said young Man's , and a sorrowful mourner for his great mishap . To the Tune of , All happy times , etc Or , Languishing Swain . ALas ! my dearest Dear is gone , And I am left to sighs and moan , To weep and wail , to sighs & amp ; cry , Oh B etty , B etty , I must die . There is no pleasure I can find , Now she is gone : Perplexed in mind I'm rolling on my lovesick bed ; The thoughts of her does strike me dead . Physicians they do come to try Their Doses with great industry : But I tell they all it is in vain , Since B etty is sailing on the main . Nought in the world but sweet Betty , Can ease my mind , or set me free From those distractions which I bear , Her absence for my heart does tear . There is no pleasure , Oh my Dear , That I can find , no comfort here ! But ' frightened Dreams do me surprise , When that dull sleep has shut my eyes , Methinks , my dearest Dear , I see What cruel Frights attends thee : How that thou too and from art tossed , And in great Hazards to be lost . O cruel Mother , and Unkind , Which brought this grief unto my mind , By banishing my dearest Joy , ' TO is only this does me destroy ! Why shoul'st thou love , his mother said A silly poor and serving maid , Whose birth is of some mean degree , Which would bring Scandals unto me . B ehold , my Son , there's Virgins store , Most beautiful , and yet not poor ; Of birth and breeding most complete : My Son , it's these will make thee great . I'ld rather surely see thee dead , Then that thou shouldst my Servant wed , To make her equal unto me , Whose birth is of some poor degree . Wealth ! birth ! ( the Youngman cries ) Alas , alas , are foolish Toys : They do indeed perplex the mind , True Love alone does comfort find . O cruel mother hear I pray , And listen unto what I say ; For your desire you'll surely have To lay me in the silent Grave : For why , I feel now at my heart , Such cruel pain , such bitter smart That long I'm sure I cannot bear Such cruel Tortures as they are . O Neptune , let me thee implore To guard my Love safe to the shore : And though I never must her see , Heavens grant her Felicity . And now , Farewell Mother unkind , You have ruined body and mind ; For to this world I bid adieu And Dying cry , ' This long of you . But when his mother she did see That he was dead assuredly , Like one distracted she did run . Still crying , Oh my Son , my Son. For thee , alas , my heart does bleed , Accursed be my wretched Deed : Could I but have thy life again , I'ld send for Betty over the Main . Therefore you Parents everywhere , Whose chance it is these lines to hear , Do not contend against True Love , For fear you such like Trials prove . London , Printed for Charles B arnet . 