The SEA-Martyrs ; OR , The Seamen's sad Lamentation for their Faithful Sir - vice , Bad Pay , and Cruel Usage . Being a woeful Relation how some of them were unmercifully put to Death for pressing for their Pay , when their Families were like to starve . Thus our New Government does Subjects serve , And leaves them this sad choice to hang or starve . To the Tune of Banstead Downs . GOod People , do but lend and Ear , And a sad Story you shall hear , A sadder you never herd , Of due Desert and base Reward , Which will English Subjects fright For our New Government to fight . Our Seamen are the only Men That over the French did Victory gain , They kept the Foe from landing here , Which would have cost the Court full dear ; And when they for their Pay did hope , They were rewarded with a Rope . The roaring Canon they never feared , Their Lives and Blood they never spared ; Through Fire and Flame their Courage flew , No Bullets could their Hearts subdue . Had they in Fight but flinched at all King James had now been in Whitehall . Thus England , and our New King too , Their Safety to their Valour owe ; Nay , some did against their Conscience fight , To do some Great Ones too much Right ; And now , o barbarous Tyranny ! Like Men they fought , like Dogs they die . Thousands of them their Lives did loose In fighting stoutly with their Foes , And thousands wero so maimed in Fight , That 'twas a sad and piteous sighed ; And when they hoped their Pay to gain They have their Labour for their Pain . Their starving Families at home Expected their slow Pay would come ; But our proud Court meant no such thing , Not one Groat must they have till Sping ; To starve all Summer would not do , They must still starve all Winter too . It might a little ease their Grief , And give their Misery some relief , Might they in Trade Ships outward go , But that poor Boon's denied them too ; Which is as much as plain to say , You shall earn nothing , nor have Pay . Their poor Wives with Care languished , Their Children cried for want of Bred , Their Debts increased , and none would more Lend them , or let them run oth' score . In such a case what could they do But ask those who did Money owe ? Therefore some bolder than the rest The Officers for their Own request , They called they Rogues , and said , Nothing Was due to them until the Spring : The King had none for them they said , Their Betters they must first be paid . The honest Seamen then replied They could no longer Want abide , And that Nine hundred thousand Pound Was given last year to pay them round , Their Money they had earnt full dear , And could not stay another half Year . A Council then they straight did call Of Pickthanks made to please Whitehall , And there they were adjudged to die ; But no Man knows wherefore , nor why . What times are these ! Wased ever known It Death for Men to ask their own ? Yet some seemed milder than the rest , And told them , that their Fault confessed , And Pardon asked , and humbly craved , Their Lives perhaps might then be saved : But they their Cause scorned to betray , Or owned a Crime to ask their Pay . Thus Thus they the Seamens Martyrs died , And would not yield to unjust Pride , Their Lives they rather would lay down Than yield it since to ask their own . Thus they for Justice spent their Blood , To do all future Seamen good . Wherefore let Seamen all and some , Keep the days of their Martyrdom , And bear in mind these dismal times , When true Men suffer for false Crimes ; England never knew the like till now , Nor ever again the like will know . But now suppose they had done ill , In asking Pay too roughly , still When 'twas their endue , and Need so pressed , They might have Pardon found at least ; The King and Queen some merciful call , But Seamen find it not at all . To Robbers , Thieves , and Felons , they Freely grant Pardons every day ; Only poor Seamen , who alone Do keep them in their Father's Throne , Must have at all no Mercy shown : Nay , though there wants fault , they'll find one . Where is the Subject's Liberty ? And eke where is their Property ? We're forced to fight for nought , like Slaves , And though we do , we're hanged like Knaves . This is not like Old Englands ways , New Lords , new Laws , the Proverb says . Beside the Seamans Pay , that's spent , The King for Stores , Ships , and what's lent , Does owe Seven Millions at the least , And every year his Debt's increased ; So that we may despair that we One quarter of our Pay shall see . Foreigners and Confederates Get poor Men's Pay , rich Men's Estates ; Brave England does to ruin run , And Englishmen must be undone . If this Trade last but one half Year , Our Wealth and Strength is spent , I fear . God bless our noble Parliament , And give them the whole Government , That they may see we're worse than ever , And us from lawless Rule deliver ; For England is sinking , unless they Do take the Helm , and better sway . FINIS . The SEA-Martyrs ; OR , The Seamen's sad Lamentation for their Faithful Sir - vice , Bad Pay , and Cruel Usage . Being a woeful Relation how some of them were unmercifully put to Death for pressing for their Pay , when their Families were like to starve . Thus our New Government does Subjects serve , And leaves them this sad choice to hang or starve . To the Tune of Banstead Downs . GOod People , do but lend and Ear , And a sad Story you shall hear , A sadder you never herd , Of due Desert and base Reward , Which will English Subjects fright For our New Government to fight . Our Seamen are the only Men That over the French did Victory gain , They kept the Foe from landing here , Which would have cost the Court full dear ; And when they for their Pay did hope , They were rewarded with a Rope . The roaring Canon they never feared , Their Lives and Blood they never spared ; Through Fire and Flame their Courage flew , No Bullets could their Hearts subdue . Had they in Fight but flinched at all King James had now been in Whitehall . Thus England , and our New King too , Their Safety to their Valour owe ; Nay , some did against their Conscience fight , To do some Great Ones too much Right ; And now , o barbarous Tyranny ! Like Men they fought , like Dogs they die . Thousands of them their Lives did loose In fighting stoutly with their Foes , And thousands wero so maimed in Fight , That 'twas a sad and piteous sighed ; And when they hoped their Pay to gain They have their Labour for their Pain . Their starving Families at home Expected their slow Pay would come ; But our proud Court meant no such thing , Not one Groat must they have till Sping ; To starve all Summer would not do , They must still starve all Winter too . It might a little ease their Grief , And give their Misery some relief , Might they in Trade Ships outward go , But that poor Boon's denied them too ; Which is as much as plain to say , You shall earn nothing , nor have Pay . Their poor Wives with Care languished , Their Children cried for want of Bred , Their Debts increased , and none would more Lend them , or let them run oth' score . In such a case what could they do But ask those who did Money owe ? Therefore some bolder than the rest The Officers for their Own request , They called they Rogues , and said , Nothing Was due to them until the Spring : The King had none for them they said , Their Betters they must first be paid . The honest Seamen then replied They could no longer Want abide , And that Nine hundred thousand Pound Was given last year to pay them round , Their Money they had earnt full dear , And could not stay another half Year . A Council then they straight did call Of Pickthanks made to please Whitehall , And there they were adjudged to die ; But no Man knows wherefore , nor why . What times are these ! Wased ever known It Death for Men to ask their own ? Yet some seemed milder than the rest , And told them , that their Fault confessed , And Pardon asked , and humbly craved , Their Lives perhaps might then be saved : But they their Cause scorned to betray , Or owned a Crime to ask their Pay . Thus Thus they the Seamens Martyrs died , And would not yield to unjust Pride , Their Lives they rather would lay down Than yield it since to ask their own . Thus they for Justice spent their Blood , To do all future Seamen good . Wherefore let Seamen all and some , Keep the days of their Martyrdom , And bear in mind these dismal times , When true Men suffer for false Crimes ; England never knew the like till now , Nor ever again the like will know . But now suppose they had done ill , In asking Pay too roughly , still When 'twas their endue , and Need so pressed , They might have Pardon found at least ; The King and Queen some merciful call , But Seamen find it not at all . To Robbers , Thieves , and Felons , they Freely grant Pardons every day ; Only poor Seamen , who alone Do keep them in their Father's Throne , Must have at all no Mercy shown : Nay , though there wants fault , they'll find one . Where is the Subject's Liberty ? And eke where is their Property ? We're forced to fight for nought , like Slaves , And though we do , we're hanged like Knaves . This is not like Old Englands ways , New Lords , new Laws , the Proverb says . Beside the Seamans Pay , that's spent , The King for Stores , Ships , and what's lent , Does owe Seven Millions at the least , And every year his Debt's increased ; So that we may despair that we One quarter of our Pay shall see . Foreigners and Confederates Get poor Men's Pay , rich Men's Estates ; Brave England does to ruin run , And Englishmen must be undone . If this Trade last but one half Year , Our Wealth and Strength is spent , I fear . God bless our noble Parliament , And give them the whole Government , That they may see we're worse than ever , And us from lawless Rule deliver ; For England is sinking , unless they Do take the Helm , and better sway . FINIS . 