THE Mournful Lover , SHOWING How Celia , a London Lady , proved false to Strephon a Lieutenant of a Ship , and in his Absence at Sea , Married Thirsis a Country Gentleman , For which S trephon Died . Licensed according to Order . Tune of , Royal and Fair , etc [ 1 ] HEavens look down and pity my Crying , Heavy with Care thus sadly oppressed , My Soul is in pain , and still I am Dying , And never find Ease in my Lovesick Breast . In torture I lie , And hourly die ; Celia is unkind , and deaf to my Cry , S he's fickle as Wind , As I to my Sorrow find , I'm left to repine , Because she's Divine , She will not be mine . [ 2 ] Think Celia , how oft with Wishes and Curses , You vowed to love your Strephon alone , Yet forsake me , and only love Thirsis , And leave me weeping , and making my Moan . But fair one know , Though for you I go , Down to the gloomy dark Shadows below , Yet when I am dead , My pale Ghost shall haunt your Bed ; None shall define , What I design . For Celia is mine . [ 3 ] Thirsis may boast for a Time of the Blessing , And laugh to see me robbed of all , Celia is false , and not worthy possessing , Though for her sake a Martyr I fallen . But Heaven is just , Though hence I must ; Yet when I'm converted to Atoms and Dust , Each tattling Wind , Shall puff they up to make her blind ; Though she's Divine , The Gods Combine , To show she's mine . [ 4 ] With my own Blood I made her a Writing , And there I bound my self to be true , She gave me the same of her own Inditing , When into my Arms like Lightning she flew . In raptures I blessed , What I possessed , As I lay promising on her dear Breast , Which now she denies , And looks upon me with scornful Eyes ; I'll not resign , What is Divine , For Celia is mine . [ 5 ] I crossed the Sea to gain my self Honour , A Piece of Gold we then did part , I thought I was happy because I had won her , That was the Time she gave me her Heart . But the false Maid , Denies what she said ; Thus my false Celia , poor Strephons betrayed , And here I am left , Of all Joy , forever bereft : I can't Divine , At her Design , But Celia is mine . [ 6 ] My Glass it is run , & amp ; my Sands have done passing Death waits for me , and I must go , Adieu to false Celia , and all her Embracing , I must go to , the dark Dawning below . Lovers farewell , My Story go tell , Go fetch my cold Shroud , and ring my last Bell That a Tear she may shed , When she hears poor Strephon is dead , Ever may she pine , And still decline , False Celia is mine . Printed by J. Wilkins , in White-Frie r s . THE Mournful Lover , SHOWING How Celia , a London Lady , proved false to Strephon a Lieutenant of a Ship , and in his Absence at Sea , Married Thirsis a Country Gentleman , For which S trephon Died . Licensed according to Order . Tune of , Royal and Fair , etc [ 1 ] HEavens look down and pity my Crying , Heavy with Care thus sadly oppressed , My Soul is in pain , and still I am Dying , And never find Ease in my Lovesick Breast . In torture I lie , And hourly die ; Celia is unkind , and deaf to my Cry , S he's fickle as Wind , As I to my Sorrow find , I'm left to repine , Because she's Divine , She will not be mine . [ 2 ] Think Celia , how oft with Wishes and Curses , You vowed to love your Strephon alone , Yet forsake me , and only love Thirsis , And leave me weeping , and making my Moan . But fair one know , Though for you I go , Down to the gloomy dark Shadows below , Yet when I am dead , My pale Ghost shall haunt your Bed ; None shall define , What I design . For Celia is mine . [ 3 ] Thirsis may boast for a Time of the Blessing , And laugh to see me robbed of all , Celia is false , and not worthy possessing , Though for her sake a Martyr I fallen . But Heaven is just , Though hence I must ; Yet when I'm converted to Atoms and Dust , Each tattling Wind , Shall puff they up to make her blind ; Though she's Divine , The Gods Combine , To show she's mine . [ 4 ] With my own Blood I made her a Writing , And there I bound my self to be true , She gave me the same of her own Inditing , When into my Arms like Lightning she flew . In raptures I blessed , What I possessed , As I lay promising on her dear Breast , Which now she denies , And looks upon me with scornful Eyes ; I'll not resign , What is Divine , For Celia is mine . [ 5 ] I crossed the Sea to gain my self Honour , A Piece of Gold we then did part , I thought I was happy because I had won her , That was the Time she gave me her Heart . But the false Maid , Denies what she said ; Thus my false Celia , poor Strephons betrayed , And here I am left , Of all Joy , forever bereft : I can't Divine , At her Design , But Celia is mine . [ 6 ] My Glass it is run , & amp ; my Sands have done passing Death waits for me , and I must go , Adieu to false Celia , and all her Embracing , I must go to , the dark Dawning below . Lovers farewell , My Story go tell , Go fetch my cold Shroud , and ring my last Bell That a Tear she may shed , When she hears poor Strephon is dead , Ever may she pine , And still decline , False Celia is mine . Printed by J. Wilkins , in White-Frie r s . 