THE TREACHERY OF THE SPANIARDS OF PORTO RICO TO THE DARTMOUTH FRIGOT AND HER COMPANY . Composed by Hovender Walker on board of Dartmouth . WHen the Dartmouth Riggot lay off a the Town , Thats called Porto Rico , of some Renown ; The Captain sent thither to know if he could Come peaceably in for Water and Wood . They answered , We were welcome there And might venture in without all Fear ; And said it should be their only Care Whatever we wanted to prepare . On the Governor's promised Honour then We took up the Pilot , who carried us in : We [ ? ] undisturbed and safe all the Night ; Nor smoked any Cheat , till the Morning's Light Discovered their base and WORSER ------ Intent ; For when to the [ w ] at'ring place we went , We were seized and into Prison sent ; And then we found out what 'twas they meant . Quoth the Governor , now you shall never be free , Till I your Commissions and Order do see : For your Ship is become a Forfeiture , And I'll sink her if she but dares to stir : For her my Guns can command you all , If she goes not where I say she shall Il'e batter her sides with my iron Ball From every Fort and the City Wall . The Council was called , and demurely they sat , To manage the Business by grave Debate : The Bald-pated Rascals ( as if they were full Of [ ? ] Tricks ) did squint and look dull ; Yet knew not what to do in the Case , They could hardly look us in the Face ; Their Actium was so openly base , And Gilded made they conscious of their Disgrace . Till the DONE cried out to the grey-bearded Knaves , We've now god a parcel of brawny Slaves , With Provision enough to furnish the Town ; For ( unless we are fools ) the Ship is our own : And Since they are in , we'll make they sure , Our Harbour is mouth is the Prison door : Take my Advice , and I will secure , They never shall go to Sea any more : And because that the Ship is under Command , Nor can they the force of our walls withstand , Wee'll suffer these silly Poltroons to go free , For their Friggot thereby gets no Liberty : But I'll order them to go where I Will maul they with more Conveniency , Or where upon the Shoals they may lie ; And then they may bid their SHip Goodby . The business when they had consulted so well , They sent us away , and sent one to tell , That if our Commander refused to obey , And did'nt immediately order to weigh , And further within the Harbour sail , For certain then that he would not fail To send some Bullets to fork our TO    And those would be Words that should prevail . In vain said the CAPTAIN you threaten us , Sirs , For I valve your Guns but as barking of Currs ; Begin when you please , you shall find us to be As brave English Hearts as ever saw the Sea : To morrow , I will certainly Weigh , And brave all your Guns in open day ; Maugre [ when ] ever you do or say , Your Governors Order I'll not obey . Next day , to decoy us , he cunningly sent A fawning Excuse with a Compliment ; And said he would try to dispatch us that day , And send us in Peace , and in Safety away : For he had no Design in the thing , But Writing Letters unto our KING , Which a Messenger he said should bring , Before the Sun was near Setting . Our Topsails w   [ ? ] oose , and the Sheats were hauled home , We wai [ tO ] ed all day , but no Messenger come : We fan ou the Shore the Friars so gay , And some were in Black , but most were in Gray ; To every Port and Castle they went ; But the LORD in heaven knows what they meant , Unless ( that it might be their intent ) To bless e'ry Man , Gun , and Battlement No sooner the Friars were gone to their home , But we herd and Alarm beatrice by the Drum , And there a Command was sent us again , To furl our Topsails and warp further in : And if we did ' nt immediately With what the Governor said comply From all Forts he'd let the Guns fly , And batter us most confoundedly . Then straight from the City we plainly could see . The Soldiers were marching most hastily , And headed they were by their fat General , To man e'ry Fort and each Castle wall : But we were quite careless all the while , And at their grand Folly did only smile , Resolving the Spaniards to beguile , And leave they without their wish't-for Spoil . By this time the busy old Son was gone down , And Candles were lighting about the Town , The COMMANDER then cheered his men so brave , And the word for cutting the Cable gave , Which was done i'th twinkling of and eye , And the Sails were set as suddenly , Which as soon as ever they could espy , A Volley of small shot did let fly . This Warning when every Castle had god , They fire , d on us ( like mad ) their great Shot ; With louder Huzza's we answered again , And showed they that we were true English men ; Thus under Sail alongst , em we past , And till convenient we kept all Fast But Hallooed out , nor were aghast , And sent a Broadside among they at last . Thus Firing , and Firing we held a good space , And gave they the go by to their Disgrace ; Three hours or more continued the Fight , With Fire and Smoke and a very calm night , And though within Pistol shoot we were Yet nevertheless we god well clear , Without much hurt or any Fear , And to tell you the Tale , are now come here . FINIS . Printed in the Year MDCLXXXVI . Composed by HovendenTHE TREACHERY OF THE SPANIARDS OF PORTO RICO TO THE DARTMOUTH FRIGOT AND HER COMPANY . Composed by Hovender Walker on board of Dartmouth . WHen the Dartmouth Riggot lay off a the Town , Thats called Porto Rico , of some Renown ; The Captain sent thither to know if he could Come peaceably in for Water and Wood . They answered , We were welcome there And might venture in without all Fear ; And said it should be their only Care Whatever we wanted to prepare . On the Governor's promised Honour then We took up the Pilot , who carried us in : We [ ? ] undisturbed and safe all the Night ; Nor smoked any Cheat , till the Morning's Light Discovered their base and WORSER ------ Intent ; For when to the [ w ] at'ring place we went , We were seized and into Prison sent ; And then we found out what 'twas they meant . Quoth the Governor , now you shall never be free , Till I your Commissions and Order do see : For your Ship is become a Forfeiture , And I'll sink her if she but dares to stir : For her my Guns can command you all , If she goes not where I say she shall Il'e batter her sides with my iron Ball From every Fort and the City Wall . The Council was called , and demurely they sat , To manage the Business by grave Debate : The Bald-pated Rascals ( as if they were full Of [ ? ] Tricks ) did squint and look dull ; Yet knew not what to do in the Case , They could hardly look us in the Face ; Their Actium was so openly base , And Gilded made they conscious of their Disgrace . Till the DONE cried out to the grey-bearded Knaves , We've now god a parcel of brawny Slaves , With Provision enough to furnish the Town ; For ( unless we are fools ) the Ship is our own : And Since they are in , we'll make they sure , Our Harbour is mouth is the Prison door : Take my Advice , and I will secure , They never shall go to Sea any more : And because that the Ship is under Command , Nor can they the force of our walls withstand , Wee'll suffer these silly Poltroons to go free , For their Friggot thereby gets no Liberty : But I'll order them to go where I Will maul they with more Conveniency , Or where upon the Shoals they may lie ; And then they may bid their SHip Goodby . The business when they had consulted so well , They sent us away , and sent one to tell , That if our Commander refused to obey , And did'nt immediately order to weigh , And further within the Harbour sail , For certain then that he would not fail To send some Bullets to fork our TO    And those would be Words that should prevail . In vain said the CAPTAIN you threaten us , Sirs , For I valve your Guns but as barking of Currs ; Begin when you please , you shall find us to be As brave English Hearts as ever saw the Sea : To morrow , I will certainly Weigh , And brave all your Guns in open day ; Maugre [ when ] ever you do or say , Your Governors Order I'll not obey . Next day , to decoy us , he cunningly sent A fawning Excuse with a Compliment ; And said he would try to dispatch us that day , And send us in Peace , and in Safety away : For he had no Design in the thing , But Writing Letters unto our KING , Which a Messenger he said should bring , Before the Sun was near Setting . Our Topsails w   [ ? ] oose , and the Sheats were hauled home , We wai [ tO ] ed all day , but no Messenger come : We fan ou the Shore the Friars so gay , And some were in Black , but most were in Gray ; To every Port and Castle they went ; But the LORD in heaven knows what they meant , Unless ( that it might be their intent ) To bless e'ry Man , Gun , and Battlement No sooner the Friars were gone to their home , But we herd and Alarm beatrice by the Drum , And there a Command was sent us again , To furl our Topsails and warp further in : And if we did ' nt immediately With what the Governor said comply From all Forts he'd let the Guns fly , And batter us most confoundedly . Then straight from the City we plainly could see . The Soldiers were marching most hastily , And headed they were by their fat General , To man e'ry Fort and each Castle wall : But we were quite careless all the while , And at their grand Folly did only smile , Resolving the Spaniards to beguile , And leave they without their wish't-for Spoil . By this time the busy old Son was gone down , And Candles were lighting about the Town , The COMMANDER then cheered his men so brave , And the word for cutting the Cable gave , Which was done i'th twinkling of and eye , And the Sails were set as suddenly , Which as soon as ever they could espy , A Volley of small shot did let fly . This Warning when every Castle had god , They fire , d on us ( like mad ) their great Shot ; With louder Huzza's we answered again , And showed they that we were true English men ; Thus under Sail alongst , em we past , And till convenient we kept all Fast But Hallooed out , nor were aghast , And sent a Broadside among they at last . Thus Firing , and Firing we held a good space , And gave they the go by to their Disgrace ; Three hours or more continued the Fight , With Fire and Smoke and a very calm night , And though within Pistol shoot we were Yet nevertheless we god well clear , Without much hurt or any Fear , And to tell you the Tale , are now come here . FINIS . Printed in the Year MDCLXXXVI . Composed by Hovenden 