The Perjured Sailor : OR , THE Fosraken Damsel . GIVING And ACCOUNT of a Young MAID at GREENWICH , who died for Love of a SEAMAN , who after many Vows and Solemn Promises left her , so that with Grief she broke her Heart . To the Tune of , The Languishing Swain . Licensed and Entered according to Order . COme listen while I do Relate , A Damsel's most Unhappy Fate ; Caused by a most Uufaithful Love , Which did her utter Ruin prove : All Truth and upright Purity , Is turned to perfect Pergury : Nay , further still , declare I can , No Creature is so false as Man : As by this Ditty you shall find , And therefore listen now and mind , While I in brief do here express , A Seaman's most Unfaithfulness : In Greenwich - Town he courted there , A Damsel beautiful and fair , And many Protestations made , Till he her yielding Heart betrayed : He vowed her Chrams he did adore , And while he did remain on shore , It was his chief Delight to be In her sweet pleasant Company . The Damsel she was coy and strange , Declaring , That she would not change A single life , for that was best ; So bid him set his heart at rest . Be not so cruel then , he cried , I can't , nor will not be denied ; Therefore one word of comfort give ; Without thy love I cannot live . Said she , Your words I can't believe , Young Men are Subject to deceive The Wise , Discreet , and Virtuous too ; Therefore , said she , Farewell , ad [ i ] eu . Then did he smite upon his breast , Like one who was with Grief oppressed , And cried , Return , return , my Dear , My final Res [ oh ] l [ u ] cion hear : If I may not thy Charms enjoy , This life of mine I will destroy , Or else I'll quit my native Shore , And never see the Nation more . This word a deep Imperssion made Upon her Heart , she sighing said , If you are Loyal , Just , and True , I will no [ tO ] strive to ruin you . He swore by all the Powers above That he'd be Loyal to his Love : At which she did a Promise make , Till death she'd never him forsake . This done , away to Sea he went , From whence he four kind Letters sent , In which he did his Love express , With all the Marks of Faithfulness . Yet when he came on shore again , Her Company he did refrain : When told of his Disloyalty , She sighing cried , It cannot be . Yet to her Grief she found it true : Then did she cry , I never knew , In all my days , so false a Wetch . With that , a double sighs she'd fetch . Her H [ e ] art with inward Grief was filled , Her Eyes soft pearly Tears distil ; Then ringing of her hands , she said , False Man , thou hast my Life betrayed : Is this the Wretch that vowed and cried , If longer I his Suit denied , That his Destruction was at hand , He'd die , or leave his Native Land. Yet , this is he ! yet let him know , He may not thus unpunished go , When I am dead his Perjury May on his guilty Conscience lie . Soon after this her Heartstrings broke , And these was the last words she spoke : The Letters which he sent from Sea , Let them lie in the Grave with me . Having surrendered up her breath Unto the fatal stroke of Death , Soft showers of melting Tears did fallen To selebrate her Funeral . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge , 1693. The Perjured Sailor : OR , THE Fosraken Damsel . GIVING And ACCOUNT of a Young MAID at GREENWICH , who died for Love of a SEAMAN , who after many Vows and Solemn Promises left her , so that with Grief she broke her Heart . To the Tune of , The Languishing Swain . Licensed and Entered according to Order . COme listen while I do Relate , A Damsel's most Unhappy Fate ; Caused by a most Uufaithful Love , Which did her utter Ruin prove : All Truth and upright Purity , Is turned to perfect Pergury : Nay , further still , declare I can , No Creature is so false as Man : As by this Ditty you shall find , And therefore listen now and mind , While I in brief do here express , A Seaman's most Unfaithfulness : In Greenwich - Town he courted there , A Damsel beautiful and fair , And many Protestations made , Till he her yielding Heart betrayed : He vowed her Chrams he did adore , And while he did remain on shore , It was his chief Delight to be In her sweet pleasant Company . The Damsel she was coy and strange , Declaring , That she would not change A single life , for that was best ; So bid him set his heart at rest . Be not so cruel then , he cried , I can't , nor will not be denied ; Therefore one word of comfort give ; Without thy love I cannot live . Said she , Your words I can't believe , Young Men are Subject to deceive The Wise , Discreet , and Virtuous too ; Therefore , said she , Farewell , ad [ i ] eu . Then did he smite upon his breast , Like one who was with Grief oppressed , And cried , Return , return , my Dear , My final Res [ oh ] l [ u ] cion hear : If I may not thy Charms enjoy , This life of mine I will destroy , Or else I'll quit my native Shore , And never see the Nation more . This word a deep Imperssion made Upon her Heart , she sighing said , If you are Loyal , Just , and True , I will no [ tO ] strive to ruin you . He swore by all the Powers above That he'd be Loyal to his Love : At which she did a Promise make , Till death she'd never him forsake . This done , away to Sea he went , From whence he four kind Letters sent , In which he did his Love express , With all the Marks of Faithfulness . Yet when he came on shore again , Her Company he did refrain : When told of his Disloyalty , She sighing cried , It cannot be . Yet to her Grief she found it true : Then did she cry , I never knew , In all my days , so false a Wetch . With that , a double sighs she'd fetch . Her H [ e ] art with inward Grief was filled , Her Eyes soft pearly Tears distil ; Then ringing of her hands , she said , False Man , thou hast my Life betrayed : Is this the Wretch that vowed and cried , If longer I his Suit denied , That his Destruction was at hand , He'd die , or leave his Native Land. Yet , this is he ! yet let him know , He may not thus unpunished go , When I am dead his Perjury May on his guilty Conscience lie . Soon after this her Heartstrings broke , And these was the last words she spoke : The Letters which he sent from Sea , Let them lie in the Grave with me . Having surrendered up her breath Unto the fatal stroke of Death , Soft showers of melting Tears did fallen To selebrate her Funeral . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge , 1693. 