The Maiden Sailor : BEING A true Relation of a young Damsel , who was Pressed on Board the Edgar Man of War , being taken up in Seamans Would - bit ; after being known , she was discharged , and at her examinati - on , she declared she would serve the King at Sea , as long as her Sweetheart continued in Flanders . Tune of Guinea wins her : Or , Farewell my dearest Nancey . GOOD people every one Sir , come listen to my ditty The like was never known Sir , a Jest both true and pretty ; Which hear I come for to declare , Of a very pretty Damsel fair , who changed her clothes , indeed , and put on Seamans weed , and then she did appear a Youth , both fair and clear , like to a seaman rare , So that you , would swear that she'd been a sai-lor too , This Maiden she was pressed , Sir , and so was many more , And she , among the rest , Sir , was brought down to the Nore , Where every one did think they had Pressed a very pretty Colliers Lad ; but yet it proved not so , when they the truth did know , they searched her well below , and see how things did go , and found her so and so , And then swore , the like was never known before . But at length a sailor bold , Sir , that used to sport and play , S ir , Did chance for to behold , Sir , where this young Damsel lay , Sir , Who thought she like a Maid did speak , When he felt , she did begin to squeak , by which , he found that she could not a sailor be , he strove to feel her knee , but she would not agree , but strove from him to flee , And he said , that she was certainly a Maid . But when the truth was known , Sir , and every one did hear it , She examined was alone , Sir , and then she did declare it , That she this thing did undertake , For a very loving sweet-heart's sake , who does in Field remain , within the King's Campaign , expecting night and day , to fight the Enemy , which made her go to sea , So that she , might serve the King as well as he . 'Twas done on board the Edgar , as you may understand , Sir , Where noble Captain Pedder does bear the chief Command , Sir , Who set this woman sailor free , And then gave to her her liberty to go to Maidenhead , where she was born and bred , for wars will not agree with such a one as she , it's better for to be On the shore , to drive the trade she did before . You Damsels far and near , when you hear this true Relation , S ee how this Damsel fair , then did venture for her Nation , Who like a sailor bold and true , Never fearing what the French could do , but for to serve her King , would venture life and limb , and I do make no doubt , had not she been found out , but she'd have proved as stout As all they , that longer time had been at Sea. Written by John Curtin , Seaman , on Board the Edgar . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on L ondon-bridge . The Maiden Sailor : BEING A true Relation of a young Damsel , who was Pressed on Board the Edgar Man of War , being taken up in Seamans Would - bit ; after being known , she was discharged , and at her examinati - on , she declared she would serve the King at Sea , as long as her Sweetheart continued in Flanders . Tune of Guinea wins her : Or , Farewell my dearest Nancey . GOOD people every one Sir , come listen to my ditty The like was never known Sir , a Jest both true and pretty ; Which hear I come for to declare , Of a very pretty Damsel fair , who changed her clothes , indeed , and put on Seamans weed , and then she did appear a Youth , both fair and clear , like to a seaman rare , So that you , would swear that she'd been a sai-lor too , This Maiden she was pressed , Sir , and so was many more , And she , among the rest , Sir , was brought down to the Nore , Where every one did think they had Pressed a very pretty Colliers Lad ; but yet it proved not so , when they the truth did know , they searched her well below , and see how things did go , and found her so and so , And then swore , the like was never known before . But at length a sailor bold , Sir , that used to sport and play , S ir , Did chance for to behold , Sir , where this young Damsel lay , Sir , Who thought she like a Maid did speak , When he felt , she did begin to squeak , by which , he found that she could not a sailor be , he strove to feel her knee , but she would not agree , but strove from him to flee , And he said , that she was certainly a Maid . But when the truth was known , Sir , and every one did hear it , She examined was alone , Sir , and then she did declare it , That she this thing did undertake , For a very loving sweet-heart's sake , who does in Field remain , within the King's Campaign , expecting night and day , to fight the Enemy , which made her go to sea , So that she , might serve the King as well as he . 'Twas done on board the Edgar , as you may understand , Sir , Where noble Captain Pedder does bear the chief Command , Sir , Who set this woman sailor free , And then gave to her her liberty to go to Maidenhead , where she was born and bred , for wars will not agree with such a one as she , it's better for to be On the shore , to drive the trade she did before . You Damsels far and near , when you hear this true Relation , S ee how this Damsel fair , then did venture for her Nation , Who like a sailor bold and true , Never fearing what the French could do , but for to serve her King , would venture life and limb , and I do make no doubt , had not she been found out , but she'd have proved as stout As all they , that longer time had been at Sea. Written by John Curtin , Seaman , on Board the Edgar . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on L ondon-bridge . 