The Royal Match of BEAR-BAITING : Being a New Song , Written by and English Sailor , a Wellwisher to the Right Valiant Courageous Mastiffs , and the Total Overthrow of the French BEAR . Tune of , The new Game at Cards ; 1. OLd Lewis had a rugged Bear , Whose Jaws did threaten that he'd tear In sunder all wherever he came : Until stout Mastiffs of the Game , Resolved to pull his Courage down , Fighting the Bear for a French Crown . 2. Those Mastiffs was true English breed , Who with the Valiant Dutch agreed , To fight the Bear , both Tooth and Nail , And doubted not but to prevail , In bringing his fierce Courage down , Fighting for the French Royal Crown . 3. The Wager on both sides was laid , And likewise preparation made , That these stout Mastiffs might advance , To Bait this Brutish Bear of France , And pull his fiery Courage down , Fighting for the French Royal Crown . 4. And English Dog among the rest , They did approve to be the best , Old Grizel they his Name did call , And was Commander over all Those Valiant Mastiffs of Renown , Who then would fight for a French Crown . 5. Old Grizel likewise did prefer Young Lap-Dogs unto Office there , Whose Courage , Conduct , Care and Skill , Was like Old Grizels , who would Kill The Bear before he went from Town , And win the Wager of a Crown . 6. All things prepared , away they go , The Mastiffs , Spanniels , Lap-Dogs too ; And Grizel did his Wrath declare , Drinking Confusion to the Bear : For Englands Honour and Renown ; He'd win the Wager of a Crown . 7. This was at Grizel is going out , That he thus Whipped the Bear about ; But when the Beast he did draw near , He stinked , nay shrinked , and quaked for fear ; While the stout Mastiffs of Renown , Would fain have played for a French Crown . 8. He called his Lap-Dogs then with speed , And made a Speech ; they all agreed , That broken Bones yields no Delight , And they had rather Eat than Fight : But the stout Mastiffs of Renown , Was fierce to fight for a French Crown . 9. The Mastiffs they were wild to go , At length Old Grizel he did show Them where this rugged Bear did lie , Yet would not venture to come nigh : But the stout Mastiffs of Renown , Was mad to fight for a French Crown . 10. The Mastiffs then began to Growl , And was resolved to fallen foul On this Old Bear , and up they go , Whither Old Grizel would or no : For Englands Honour and Renown , They fairly play for a French Crown . 11. Their Throats like Thunder in the Air , Did seem the very Clouds to tear ; For being eager of the Game , They from their Mouths sent streams of Flame , Like wellbred Mastiffs of Renown , who bravely played for a French Crown . 12. Had but Old Grizel backed them there , This sour rugged Dancing Bear Had never returned to France again , But would have been destroyed and slave by wellbred Mastiffs of Renown , who fairly played for a French Crown . 13. Another Match we mean to play , But Grizel shall not led the way : We'll make the Bear to Rave and Roar , Then will he fly , and never more Come near this Nation of Renown , Then Lewis have at thy French Crown . FINIS . Printed for B . C.The Royal Match of BEAR-BAITING : Being a New Song , Written by and English Sailor , a Wellwisher to the Right Valiant Courageous Mastiffs , and the Total Overthrow of the French BEAR . Tune of , The new Game at Cards ; 1. OLd Lewis had a rugged Bear , Whose Jaws did threaten that he'd tear In sunder all wherever he came : Until stout Mastiffs of the Game , Resolved to pull his Courage down , Fighting the Bear for a French Crown . 2. Those Mastiffs was true English breed , Who with the Valiant Dutch agreed , To fight the Bear , both Tooth and Nail , And doubted not but to prevail , In bringing his fierce Courage down , Fighting for the French Royal Crown . 3. The Wager on both sides was laid , And likewise preparation made , That these stout Mastiffs might advance , To Bait this Brutish Bear of France , And pull his fiery Courage down , Fighting for the French Royal Crown . 4. And English Dog among the rest , They did approve to be the best , Old Grizel they his Name did call , And was Commander over all Those Valiant Mastiffs of Renown , Who then would fight for a French Crown . 5. Old Grizel likewise did prefer Young Lap-Dogs unto Office there , Whose Courage , Conduct , Care and Skill , Was like Old Grizels , who would Kill The Bear before he went from Town , And win the Wager of a Crown . 6. All things prepared , away they go , The Mastiffs , Spanniels , Lap-Dogs too ; And Grizel did his Wrath declare , Drinking Confusion to the Bear : For Englands Honour and Renown ; He'd win the Wager of a Crown . 7. This was at Grizel is going out , That he thus Whipped the Bear about ; But when the Beast he did draw near , He stinked , nay shrinked , and quaked for fear ; While the stout Mastiffs of Renown , Would fain have played for a French Crown . 8. He called his Lap-Dogs then with speed , And made a Speech ; they all agreed , That broken Bones yields no Delight , And they had rather Eat than Fight : But the stout Mastiffs of Renown , Was fierce to fight for a French Crown . 9. The Mastiffs they were wild to go , At length Old Grizel he did show Them where this rugged Bear did lie , Yet would not venture to come nigh : But the stout Mastiffs of Renown , Was mad to fight for a French Crown . 10. The Mastiffs then began to Growl , And was resolved to fallen foul On this Old Bear , and up they go , Whither Old Grizel would or no : For Englands Honour and Renown , They fairly play for a French Crown . 11. Their Throats like Thunder in the Air , Did seem the very Clouds to tear ; For being eager of the Game , They from their Mouths sent streams of Flame , Like wellbred Mastiffs of Renown , who bravely played for a French Crown . 12. Had but Old Grizel backed them there , This sour rugged Dancing Bear Had never returned to France again , But would have been destroyed and slave by wellbred Mastiffs of Renown , who fairly played for a French Crown . 13. Another Match we mean to play , But Grizel shall not led the way : We'll make the Bear to Rave and Roar , Then will he fly , and never more Come near this Nation of Renown , Then Lewis have at thy French Crown . FINIS . Printed for B.C. 