THE Seaman's Complaint FOR His Unkind Mistress O f Wapping . TO une of , I love you dearly , I love you well : Or , Languishing Swain . WHen I went early in the spring , On Board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for ever was mine . Her Love appeared most true to be , And she on board would go with me , S he went as far as the Boy i'th' Nore , And then returned back to the shore . Ofttimes I huged her in my Arms , I thought she had a thousand C harms , Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To Marry next time we did meet . A golden Chain I did present , S he seemed very well content , S he sighed , and said , it breaks my Heart , To think my love and I must part . W hile I was sailing on the S ea , I took all opportunity , To send Letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I never could hear . W hen we were Booming of a Town , W here Cannonballs flew up and down , I ' the worst of all those Dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , W ho did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And asked for my Love by her Name , Her F ather churlishly did cry , Sir , all your Love she does defy . Said I , what mean you Sir by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is , To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another wife . Cursed on all false love where ever it be , A curse on all such Perjury : A curse on those who ever do make Or break a Vow for Riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! women's tongues are like the wind . A dieu all comfort of my life , A dieu the Pleasures of a wife ; A dieu all false hearts here on shore , For I will never see England more . I'll go where Bombs and C annons play , Where they never cease both night nor day I'll range the seas until I die , W here waves are tossing mountains high . S ince I have lost my hearts delight , I bid unto the world good night , I'ld rather be where Bullets fly , Than in a woman's company . Printed for Charles Barnet . THE Seaman's Complaint FOR His Unkind Mistress O f Wapping . TO une of , I love you dearly , I love you well : Or , Languishing Swain . WHen I went early in the spring , On Board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for ever was mine . Her Love appeared most true to be , And she on board would go with me , S he went as far as the Boy i'th' Nore , And then returned back to the shore . Ofttimes I huged her in my Arms , I thought she had a thousand C harms , Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To Marry next time we did meet . A golden Chain I did present , S he seemed very well content , S he sighed , and said , it breaks my Heart , To think my love and I must part . W hile I was sailing on the S ea , I took all opportunity , To send Letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I never could hear . W hen we were Booming of a Town , W here Cannonballs flew up and down , I ' the worst of all those Dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , W ho did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And asked for my Love by her Name , Her F ather churlishly did cry , Sir , all your Love she does defy . Said I , what mean you Sir by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is , To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another wife . Cursed on all false love where ever it be , A curse on all such Perjury : A curse on those who ever do make Or break a Vow for Riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! women's tongues are like the wind . A dieu all comfort of my life , A dieu the Pleasures of a wife ; A dieu all false hearts here on shore , For I will never see England more . I'll go where Bombs and C annons play , Where they never cease both night nor day I'll range the seas until I die , W here waves are tossing mountains high . S ince I have lost my hearts delight , I bid unto the world good night , I'ld rather be where Bullets fly , Than in a woman's company . Printed for Charles Barnet . 