The Jealous Lover : OR , The Damosel's Complaint of her Seaman's Unkindness ; together with his Cheerful Answer after all her Sorrow . To a new Tune , much in request . FArewel my love , farewell my dear , No longer may I tarry here ; On board this morning I must go , This is unwelcome news I know . Will you be gone and leave your love ? Will you unkind and cruel prove ? Will you be gone , love , and leave me alone ? Then I'll lay me down and make my moan . Why will you slight and leave me now ? Why will you thus forget your vow ? Tarry at home , on shore , with me , I'ld rather lose my life then thee . Your love does ebb and flow I find , It's more unconstant then the wind ; Now prithee dearest let me know What is the cause it should be so ? Once you told me you loved me well , That , none but your heart and tongue can tell ; You love another , you love not me , And care not for my company . You love another , the reason why , Because she's god more gold then I ; But gold will wast , and silver fly , In time she may have as little as I . Have I not seen a morning gay , Bring forth a dark and cloudy day ; So may this wealth become a snare To those that most unconstant are . Your gold and silver it is dross , And love , if I must bore the loss , Of thee , because I have not gold , This shows hight love is quickly cold . Canst thou so soon be drawn away ? Can heaps of gold thy conscience sway ? [ If ] so , farewell to loyalty , Thy unkind frowns will ruin me . If I had gold , love , thou shouldst have part , As I have none , dear , thou hast my heart ; Thou hast my heart , and free good will , I vow and swear I love thee still . Though thou hast caused me to complain , Though thou shouldst kill me with disdain ; It's all a case , love , thou shalt find , That I will never change my mind . If I might have a lord or earl ; Might I be decked with orient pearl , I'ld part with all for thee , my love , Unkind to thee I'ld never prove . Shall heaps of gold and silver bright , Cause me to wrong my heart's delight ? No , while I have a day to live , A loyal heart to thee I'll give . They shall as soon the rocks remove , As the foundation of my love ; Since I so constant do remain , Return me love for love again . The Seaman's Answer . MY dearest love forbear to weep , My former solemn vows I'll keep ; No Riches in the world shall make , Me in the lest my love forsake . This ring , my dear , I'll leave with you , The posy of the same is true ; Pure love is better worth then gold , In which there's blessings manifold . O call the boat , love , unto the ferry , For I came hither to be merry ; It shall never be said , love , when we are dead , That jolly seamen are basely bred . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the sign of the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . The Jealous Lover : OR , The Damosel's Complaint of her Seaman's Unkindness ; together with his Cheerful Answer after all her Sorrow . To a new Tune , much in request . FArewel my love , farewell my dear , No longer may I tarry here ; On board this morning I must go , This is unwelcome news I know . Will you be gone and leave your love ? Will you unkind and cruel prove ? Will you be gone , love , and leave me alone ? Then I'll lay me down and make my moan . Why will you slight and leave me now ? Why will you thus forget your vow ? Tarry at home , on shore , with me , I'ld rather lose my life then thee . Your love does ebb and flow I find , It's more unconstant then the wind ; Now prithee dearest let me know What is the cause it should be so ? Once you told me you loved me well , That , none but your heart and tongue can tell ; You love another , you love not me , And care not for my company . You love another , the reason why , Because she's god more gold then I ; But gold will wast , and silver fly , In time she may have as little as I . Have I not seen a morning gay , Bring forth a dark and cloudy day ; So may this wealth become a snare To those that most unconstant are . Your gold and silver it is dross , And love , if I must bore the loss , Of thee , because I have not gold , This shows hight love is quickly cold . Canst thou so soon be drawn away ? Can heaps of gold thy conscience sway ? [ If ] so , farewell to loyalty , Thy unkind frowns will ruin me . If I had gold , love , thou shouldst have part , As I have none , dear , thou hast my heart ; Thou hast my heart , and free good will , I vow and swear I love thee still . Though thou hast caused me to complain , Though thou shouldst kill me with disdain ; It's all a case , love , thou shalt find , That I will never change my mind . If I might have a lord or earl ; Might I be decked with orient pearl , I'ld part with all for thee , my love , Unkind to thee I'ld never prove . Shall heaps of gold and silver bright , Cause me to wrong my heart's delight ? No , while I have a day to live , A loyal heart to thee I'll give . They shall as soon the rocks remove , As the foundation of my love ; Since I so constant do remain , Return me love for love again . The Seaman's Answer . MY dearest love forbear to weep , My former solemn vows I'll keep ; No Riches in the world shall make , Me in the lest my love forsake . This ring , my dear , I'll leave with you , The posy of the same is true ; Pure love is better worth then gold , In which there's blessings manifold . O call the boat , love , unto the ferry , For I came hither to be merry ; It shall never be said , love , when we are dead , That jolly seamen are basely bred . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the sign of the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 