ENGLANDS Scorn ; OR The Sham INVASION . To the Tune of , A Puding , etc I . COme listen to me , brave English Boys , For now's the time for to lay aside Toys , I'll tell you a Tale that will baffle your Joys ; For I am informed there's a terrible Noise , Of Invasion . II Monsieur , they say , in a Fury has swore , He'll over , and land on the English Shore ; Though now it's and Hundred Years and more , Since Spain did pretend on the very same Score , And Invasion . III . A terrible Fleet , and Army , He'll bring . Some say , they will surely be here this Spring . The Jacobites threaten us too with their King , That He with his Valour , alas ! poor Thing , Will Invade us . IV. Ten thousand Dear Joys are to be in the Van , And they , to be sure , are terrible Men ; For they are the same that in Ireland ran , From the Face of our Army , but that's all one , They'll invade us . V. A Thousand Ships , both small and great , Must come to do this mighty Feat . But hang they , they talk at a very mad rate , And none but a Jacobite Rogue would prate , Of Invasion . VI . They boast indeed of some great Lords , And strut like valiant Men in Words : But their tongues are as harmless as their swords And who'd be afraid of a pack of Turds , To invade us . VII . When Valiant William leads us on , Like Mars himself , and we his Sons , M onsieur must quickly change his Tune , And Teague return to his old Hone , Oh! hone . No Invasion . VIII . When Noise of Drums and Trumpets roar And English Shouts on Gallick Shore , Then Lewis must never be le Grand any more And farewell the Charms of sweet Lewid'or , And invasion . IX . When princes & amp ; states shall recover their own And Subjects oppressed shall cease for to moan Then Traitors & amp ; Tyranny all shall go down And Monarch Invincible scarce keep his Crown From invasion . X. When Liberty , Property , all are secure , The People in Freedom , the King in just Power Then the Blessings of Peace & amp ; Religion will shower . From above , and continue for many and Hour . From invasion . LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White Friars , 1692. ENGLANDS Scorn ; OR The Sham INVASION . To the Tune of , A Puding , etc I . COme listen to me , brave English Boys , For now's the time for to lay aside Toys , I'll tell you a Tale that will baffle your Joys ; For I am informed there's a terrible Noise , Of Invasion . II Monsieur , they say , in a Fury has swore , He'll over , and land on the English Shore ; Though now it's and Hundred Years and more , Since Spain did pretend on the very same Score , And Invasion . III . A terrible Fleet , and Army , He'll bring . Some say , they will surely be here this Spring . The Jacobites threaten us too with their King , That He with his Valour , alas ! poor Thing , Will Invade us . IV. Ten thousand Dear Joys are to be in the Van , And they , to be sure , are terrible Men ; For they are the same that in Ireland ran , From the Face of our Army , but that's all one , They'll invade us . V. A Thousand Ships , both small and great , Must come to do this mighty Feat . But hang they , they talk at a very mad rate , And none but a Jacobite Rogue would prate , Of Invasion . VI . They boast indeed of some great Lords , And strut like valiant Men in Words : But their tongues are as harmless as their swords And who'd be afraid of a pack of Turds , To invade us . VII . When Valiant William leads us on , Like Mars himself , and we his Sons , M onsieur must quickly change his Tune , And Teague return to his old Hone , Oh! hone . No Invasion . VIII . When Noise of Drums and Trumpets roar And English Shouts on Gallick Shore , Then Lewis must never be le Grand any more And farewell the Charms of sweet Lewid'or , And invasion . IX . When princes & amp ; states shall recover their own And Subjects oppressed shall cease for to moan Then Traitors & amp ; Tyranny all shall go down And Monarch Invincible scarce keep his Crown From invasion . X. When Liberty , Property , all are secure , The People in Freedom , the King in just Power Then the Blessings of Peace & amp ; Religion will shower . From above , and continue for many and Hour . From invasion . LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White Friars , 1692. 