A Merry New BALLAD , On the Great Victory over the French Fleet , MAY the 19th . 1692. To as Merry a New Tune , ----- Heigh ! for the Honour of Old England . I Sing you a Ballad , as round me you stand , Which is for the Honour of Old England : Old England , Old England ; Which is for the Honour of Old England . In the Month of May , the Year Ninety two , The English-man did his Old Valour show . Old England , Old England , etc We sent out our Scouts the Foe to descry , When Cape de Hague we were sailing by . Old England , etc This was a good Omen , we now understand , And Lewis hates Hague , by Sea as by Land. Old England , etc But in our Channel the Battle was fought , And so the French Fleet in a Net was caught , Net was caught , Net was caught ; And so the French Fleet in a Net was caught . Yet Monsieur expecting that all was his own , On Ambrall Russell did boldly bear down . Old England , etc He gave a [ Broad ] Side , which was kindly took , And then the Britannia in Thunder spoke , Thunder spoke , Thunder spoke , And then the Britannia in Thunder spoke . Till in Musquet shot , she fires no Gun ; In Compliment then salutes the French Sun . Old England , etc And warms her Sides so , that for all her Might , She fairly Tows off , and bids us Good night . Old England , etc Thus have we been taught in a Tale or Old Song , French Fury was never known to last long . Old England , etc When Tourville had given the Signal to fly , His Squadrons , as ready , do Westward , ho ! ply . Old England , etc Some of his Lame Geese not able to bear Their Heads above Water , to the Bottom they steer . Old England , etc The rest we pursue in their straggling Flight , And Chase the Poltroons most part of the Night . Old England , Old England , And heigh ! for the Honour of Old England . The Second Part to the Same Tune . NExt Morning was foggy ; but when it grew clear , The Chase was renewed , and so was their Fear . Old England , etc We made all our Sail , and gave they no rest , From Point to Point drove they , from West to East . Old England , etc Those Coursers so Brisk at the Starting-Place , Run heavily now through Alderney Raze . Old England , etc Into Cherburgh Bay Three Tall Ones did run , Where a Northern Blaze burns up the South Sun . ` Old England , etc 'Twas Heath did this Feat ; and Greenway another , For the Conquerant fell , in Flames , and in Smother . Old England , etc And Fowlis was Daring , though he missed his Prey ; He flew at the Sun , but stooped by the way . Old England , etc But now we are making for Bay le Hogue , Where on Land , they say , are many a Brogue . Old England , etc These Doughty Wights , those true Irish Teagues , Won't let us come near they by several Leagues . Old England , etc Such Gallant Alliance the French much imports , They'll save their Friends Ships , as they did their own Forts . Old England , etc But Manning our Boats , those Wise Ones we cozen , And burn in this Bay Thirteen to the Dozen . Old England , etc This Action's far greater , than that of Lepanto , And merits alone a whole Noble Canto . Old England , etc For like the Old Britains , our Men did Assail they , In Open Boats , and Naked , we Quail ' em . Old England , etc We stormed their Fore-Castles , their Decks we did Scale , And with their own Canon , we made they turn tale . Old England , etc Earl Danby Commanded the Headmost Boat , Which was in a moment from under him shot . Old England , etc Then a Musquet Ball does graze on his Shin , But still he goes on , more Honour to Win. Old England , etc Not a Captain was here , but tossed up his Brands ; The Seamen were Furies , with Flames in their hands . Old England , etc What Bonfires we made on our Norman Coast ! Where William the Conqueror Rules the Roast : Rules the Roast , Rules the Roast ; Where William the Conqueror Rules the Roast . The Third Part to the Same . BUT now in all Pomps , where Great Men appear , The Post of Honour is still in the Rear . Old England , etc Brave Russell can never enough be praised , Such Trophies are owing as never were rays worser . Old England , etc To his Courage , and Conduct , Great Honours are due To all of the Flag ; the Read , White and Blue . Old England , etc To Delaval , Almond , Shovel , Ashby . Rook , Whose Names are all writ in Fame's Lasting Book . Old England , etc To Carter , the Bold ! who never can die ; He only i'th' Bed of Honour does lie . Old England , etc His Story is Great , for he comes not and Ace Behind Withrington in Old Chivy Chase . Old England , etc Nay , he is before him , for he fought on his Stumps , With joy in his Face , and not Doleful Dumps . Old England , etc Stout Hastings shall live ; shall ever be famed , With all our Commanders , too long to be nam . Old England , etc What need we say more , there is no occasion , This French does excel in the Spanish Invasion : Old England , etc The Downfall of Lewis le Grand is reckoned So far above that of Philip the Second . Old England , etc 'Twas in Eighty Eight Queen Bess swept the Main ; In Ninety Two Queen Marry the same . Old England , etc Now all English Lads not entered their Teens , Shall chant forth the Praise of Those Protestant Queen's , Protestant Queen's ! Protestant Queens ! Shall chant out the Praise of those Protestant Queen's . Our London Merchant's will now live at ease , May Trade without Convoys all over the Seas . Old England , etc The New-Castle Men may bring in their Coals ; And never must Petres say Mass in Pauls . Mass in Pauls ! Mass in Pauls ! And never must Petres say Mass in PaulsB . LONDON : Printed for R. Baldwin , near the Oxford Arms in Warwick-Lane . 1692. A Merry New BALLAD , On the Great Victory over the French Fleet , MAY the 19th . 1692. To as Merry a New Tune , ----- Heigh ! for the Honour of Old England . I Sing you a Ballad , as round me you stand , Which is for the Honour of Old England : Old England , Old England ; Which is for the Honour of Old England . In the Month of May , the Year Ninety two , The English-man did his Old Valour show . Old England , Old England , etc We sent out our Scouts the Foe to descry , When Cape de Hague we were sailing by . Old England , etc This was a good Omen , we now understand , And Lewis hates Hague , by Sea as by Land. Old England , etc But in our Channel the Battle was fought , And so the French Fleet in a Net was caught , Net was caught , Net was caught ; And so the French Fleet in a Net was caught . Yet Monsieur expecting that all was his own , On Ambrall Russell did boldly bear down . Old England , etc He gave a [ Broad ] Side , which was kindly took , And then the Britannia in Thunder spoke , Thunder spoke , Thunder spoke , And then the Britannia in Thunder spoke . Till in Musquet shot , she fires no Gun ; In Compliment then salutes the French Sun . Old England , etc And warms her Sides so , that for all her Might , She fairly Tows off , and bids us Good night . Old England , etc Thus have we been taught in a Tale or Old Song , French Fury was never known to last long . Old England , etc When Tourville had given the Signal to fly , His Squadrons , as ready , do Westward , ho ! ply . Old England , etc Some of his Lame Geese not able to bear Their Heads above Water , to the Bottom they steer . Old England , etc The rest we pursue in their straggling Flight , And Chase the Poltroons most part of the Night . Old England , Old England , And heigh ! for the Honour of Old England . The Second Part to the Same Tune . NExt Morning was foggy ; but when it grew clear , The Chase was renewed , and so was their Fear . Old England , etc We made all our Sail , and gave they no rest , From Point to Point drove they , from West to East . Old England , etc Those Coursers so Brisk at the Starting-Place , Run heavily now through Alderney Raze . Old England , etc Into Cherburgh Bay Three Tall Ones did run , Where a Northern Blaze burns up the South Sun . ` Old England , etc 'Twas Heath did this Feat ; and Greenway another , For the Conquerant fell , in Flames , and in Smother . Old England , etc And Fowlis was Daring , though he missed his Prey ; He flew at the Sun , but stooped by the way . Old England , etc But now we are making for Bay le Hogue , Where on Land , they say , are many a Brogue . Old England , etc These Doughty Wights , those true Irish Teagues , Won't let us come near they by several Leagues . Old England , etc Such Gallant Alliance the French much imports , They'll save their Friends Ships , as they did their own Forts . Old England , etc But Manning our Boats , those Wise Ones we cozen , And burn in this Bay Thirteen to the Dozen . Old England , etc This Action's far greater , than that of Lepanto , And merits alone a whole Noble Canto . Old England , etc For like the Old Britains , our Men did Assail they , In Open Boats , and Naked , we Quail ' em . Old England , etc We stormed their Fore-Castles , their Decks we did Scale , And with their own Canon , we made they turn tale . Old England , etc Earl Danby Commanded the Headmost Boat , Which was in a moment from under him shot . Old England , etc Then a Musquet Ball does graze on his Shin , But still he goes on , more Honour to Win. Old England , etc Not a Captain was here , but tossed up his Brands ; The Seamen were Furies , with Flames in their hands . Old England , etc What Bonfires we made on our Norman Coast ! Where William the Conqueror Rules the Roast : Rules the Roast , Rules the Roast ; Where William the Conqueror Rules the Roast . The Third Part to the Same . BUT now in all Pomps , where Great Men appear , The Post of Honour is still in the Rear . Old England , etc Brave Russell can never enough be praised , Such Trophies are owing as never were rays worser . Old England , etc To his Courage , and Conduct , Great Honours are due To all of the Flag ; the Read , White and Blue . Old England , etc To Delaval , Almond , Shovel , Ashby . Rook , Whose Names are all writ in Fame's Lasting Book . Old England , etc To Carter , the Bold ! who never can die ; He only i'th' Bed of Honour does lie . Old England , etc His Story is Great , for he comes not and Ace Behind Withrington in Old Chivy Chase . Old England , etc Nay , he is before him , for he fought on his Stumps , With joy in his Face , and not Doleful Dumps . Old England , etc Stout Hastings shall live ; shall ever be famed , With all our Commanders , too long to be nam . Old England , etc What need we say more , there is no occasion , This French does excel in the Spanish Invasion : Old England , etc The Downfall of Lewis le Grand is reckoned So far above that of Philip the Second . Old England , etc 'Twas in Eighty Eight Queen Bess swept the Main ; In Ninety Two Queen Marry the same . Old England , etc Now all English Lads not entered their Teens , Shall chant forth the Praise of Those Protestant Queen's , Protestant Queen's ! Protestant Queens ! Shall chant out the Praise of those Protestant Queen's . Our London Merchant's will now live at ease , May Trade without Convoys all over the Seas . Old England , etc The New-Castle Men may bring in their Coals ; And never must Petres say Mass in Pauls . Mass in Pauls ! Mass in Pauls ! And never must Petres say Mass in PaulsB . LONDON : Printed for R. Baldwin , near the Oxford Arms in Warwick-Lane . 1692. 