THE Protestants of Englands Prayers FOR THE English and Dutch Good Proceedings against their Enemies by Sea and Land. To the Tune of , The English Travellers , or , Why are my Eyes still Flowing . With Allowance . THe Trouble in this Kingdom puts us to a stand , God Bless King and People from their Enemies hand , The French and the Irish may never have power , That the Lord may be our Defender then every hour , And the Lord go along with our Army and Fleet , To Fight us the Battle when their Enemies they meet , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . The French they are Bloody , and the Irish also , They are most of them Cruel , and a Monstrous Foe , There is no Mercy in their Cruel Hand , Let's be true to one another by Sea and by Land , And Fight them , and Fight them , and Fight them again , And stand them all out , till they Die , or else Run , For the Lord gives the Victory everyway , Lets down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . What a number of Irish by a small Party was Slave At Londonderry , the Truth is so plain , The Lord does stand with us , who need not to fear , All in good time , who shall Conquer they there , When our Army is Landed , who'l make them to yield , Who'l make the Proud Irish and French leave the Field , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . For all this long Siege that this People endure , From the Lord they will have some Relief to be sure , A Protestant Party god into and Isle , And Landed some Forces now in the mean while , And given them a Bang that does make them to stink , There's One and Twenty Officers has had there last drink , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . And Seventeen more Officers ta'n Prisoners that Day , Which makes it appear 'twas a foul Bloody Fray , And Twenty One more Wounded of that Popish Crew , All the Devil's Officers , I tell unto you , There Army must needs be out of order to be sure , When the brave Protestants of England did give them that Cure , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . What can these Cowards now say at this thing , That puts such great trust now in their French King , What will they do when we have and Army in the Field , Who'l Beatrice them out of Ireland and make them to yield , God is our Defender , he will keep us safe still , Who fear not the French , that does Rob , Fire , and Kill , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . Now in the Conclusion of this new Song , God Bless all true Protestants , both Old and Young , And defend us from their Bloody Hands , The Lord Bless the Church of England , and for to stand . For God will Reward them one Day for their pain , The French and the Irish , and their Bloody [ TO ] rain ; For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by J. Wilkins in White-Fryars , 1689. THE Protestants of Englands Prayers FOR THE English and Dutch Good Proceedings against their Enemies by Sea and Land. To the Tune of , The English Travellers , or , Why are my Eyes still Flowing . With Allowance . THe Trouble in this Kingdom puts us to a stand , God Bless King and People from their Enemies hand , The French and the Irish may never have power , That the Lord may be our Defender then every hour , And the Lord go along with our Army and Fleet , To Fight us the Battle when their Enemies they meet , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . The French they are Bloody , and the Irish also , They are most of them Cruel , and a Monstrous Foe , There is no Mercy in their Cruel Hand , Let's be true to one another by Sea and by Land , And Fight them , and Fight them , and Fight them again , And stand them all out , till they Die , or else Run , For the Lord gives the Victory everyway , Lets down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . What a number of Irish by a small Party was Slave At Londonderry , the Truth is so plain , The Lord does stand with us , who need not to fear , All in good time , who shall Conquer they there , When our Army is Landed , who'l make them to yield , Who'l make the Proud Irish and French leave the Field , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . For all this long Siege that this People endure , From the Lord they will have some Relief to be sure , A Protestant Party god into and Isle , And Landed some Forces now in the mean while , And given them a Bang that does make them to stink , There's One and Twenty Officers has had there last drink , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . And Seventeen more Officers ta'n Prisoners that Day , Which makes it appear 'twas a foul Bloody Fray , And Twenty One more Wounded of that Popish Crew , All the Devil's Officers , I tell unto you , There Army must needs be out of order to be sure , When the brave Protestants of England did give them that Cure , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . What can these Cowards now say at this thing , That puts such great trust now in their French King , What will they do when we have and Army in the Field , Who'l Beatrice them out of Ireland and make them to yield , God is our Defender , he will keep us safe still , Who fear not the French , that does Rob , Fire , and Kill , For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . Now in the Conclusion of this new Song , God Bless all true Protestants , both Old and Young , And defend us from their Bloody Hands , The Lord Bless the Church of England , and for to stand . For God will Reward them one Day for their pain , The French and the Irish , and their Bloody [ TO ] rain ; For the Lord gives the Victory every way , Let's down of our Knees and most heartily Pray . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by J. Wilkins in White-Fryars , 1689. 