And Excellent New SONG , ENTITLED , A Hight Engagement Between A French Privateer , and and English Fire-Ship . I'M a Prize for a Captain to fallen on , my Name it is Sea faring Kate : My Sails they are Top and Top Gallon , a Friggot that's of the First Rate . With a fa la la , etc A French-Man came lately to Press me , which was not a very hard thing , And swore that he first would embrace me , And Loaded me then for the King , With a fa la la , etc Last Summer he Sailed from the Shannon , and long at and Anchor had read , On his Mid Ship he had a good Cannon , which was all the great Guns that he had . With a fa la la , etc His Main Yard he hoized , and Steered his Course ; and gave me a Broad Side : My Poop and my Starn Port sneered , betwixt the Wind , Water , and Tide . With a fa la la , etc Still under his Lee I did hover , with all the force I could affo [ r ] worser , But as he had been a rank Rover , he briskly did lay me on Board . With a fa la la , etc He looked for some hidden Treasure , And fell to his doing of Feats , But found me a Fireship of Pleasure , When he entered the mouth of the Straits , With a fa la la , etc It was a high Tide , and the Weather With and easterly Gale it did blow : Our Frigates were foul of each other , And could not get off , nor ride to , With a fa la la , etc My Bottom was strongly well planked , My Deck could a Tempest endure , But never was poor Dog in a Blanket So tossed , as was the Monsieur , With a fa la la , etc No near , than his Course he still steered , and claped his hand down to his Sword ; But as his Love tackle he cleared , I brought down his Main Top by the B oard , With a fa la la , etc Then he feared to burn a Sea-Martyr , for my Gun-Room was all in a Fire , And I blew up my second Deck Quarter , just as he began to retire , With a fa la la , etc I peppered him off the Centre , Monsieur was never served so before ; I burn his Main Yard at a venture , So that he will press me no more , With a fa la la , etc Then Monsieur god off , and was grieved , and cursed the English first Rates , But till then he could never believe it , That Strumbulo lay in the Straits , With a fa ca la , etc Printed by T. More , for S. Green . 1691. And Excellent New SONG , ENTITLED , A Hight Engagement Between A French Privateer , and and English Fire-Ship . I'M a Prize for a Captain to fallen on , my Name it is Sea faring Kate : My Sails they are Top and Top Gallon , a Friggot that's of the First Rate . With a fa la la , etc A French-Man came lately to Press me , which was not a very hard thing , And swore that he first would embrace me , And Loaded me then for the King , With a fa la la , etc Last Summer he Sailed from the Shannon , and long at and Anchor had read , On his Mid Ship he had a good Cannon , which was all the great Guns that he had . With a fa la la , etc His Main Yard he hoized , and Steered his Course ; and gave me a Broad Side : My Poop and my Starn Port sneered , betwixt the Wind , Water , and Tide . With a fa la la , etc Still under his Lee I did hover , with all the force I could affo [ r ] worser , But as he had been a rank Rover , he briskly did lay me on Board . With a fa la la , etc He looked for some hidden Treasure , And fell to his doing of Feats , But found me a Fireship of Pleasure , When he entered the mouth of the Straits , With a fa la la , etc It was a high Tide , and the Weather With and easterly Gale it did blow : Our Frigates were foul of each other , And could not get off , nor ride to , With a fa la la , etc My Bottom was strongly well planked , My Deck could a Tempest endure , But never was poor Dog in a Blanket So tossed , as was the Monsieur , With a fa la la , etc No near , than his Course he still steered , and claped his hand down to his Sword ; But as his Love tackle he cleared , I brought down his Main Top by the B oard , With a fa la la , etc Then he feared to burn a Sea-Martyr , for my Gun-Room was all in a Fire , And I blew up my second Deck Quarter , just as he began to retire , With a fa la la , etc I peppered him off the Centre , Monsieur was never served so before ; I burn his Main Yard at a venture , So that he will press me no more , With a fa la la , etc Then Monsieur god off , and was grieved , and cursed the English first Rates , But till then he could never believe it , That Strumbulo lay in the Straits , With a fa ca la , etc Printed by T. More , for S. Green . 1691. 