THE Distracted French King : WITH And Account of his Raving Fit against his Coward - lie Sea-Commission-Officers , for suffering the total Destruc - cion of his powerful F leet Tune is , Let Marry Live Long . Licensed according to Order . F Rench Admirals all , Whom I have entrusted , Behold I'm disgusted , Your glory will fallen as well as my own , For our Enemies they Now have got the day , and Victory wone ; You've lost my whole Navy , You've lost my whole Navy , Rogues , what have you done ? Five Millions of Gold , With Silver at pleasure , A large sum of Treasure I gave you , behold , To Bribe their Trustees , You have waste [ worser ] the same , And returned home with shame Now where shall I run ? You've lost my great Navy , You've lost my great Navy , Rogues , what have you done ? A powerful Fleet , Captains in Commission , With stout Ammunition , And yet to be beatrice , This makes me run mad , Such a Cowardly crew , Sure the world never knew , What presently run , You've lost my whole Navy , You've lost my whole Navy , Rogues , what have you done ? You solemnly swore You'd raise my promortion , By sailing the Ocean ; Beside what is more , the Jacobites all That in England are , Would for L ewis declare , And yet could you run , You've lost m [ y ] whole Navy , You've lost [ m ] y whole Navy , Rogues , what have you done ? Beside I'm afraid Of what is ensuing , It will prove Ruin My Land they'll invade , And where am I then ? What they gain is their own , Royal Sceptre and Throne , Then where shall I run , You've lost my whole Navy , You've lost my whole Navy , Rogues , what you done ? We threatened them first , But Oh that false Devil , The Author of Evil , Let him be accursed , For failing his Friend , Go together like Sots , You have Ruined my Plots , And Cowardly run , You've lost my whole Navy , You've lost my whole Navy , Rogues , what have you done . I never shall have The Courage or Power That Land to devour , What could you not save My stout Men of war ? But let them be burned , Oh to Ashes they turned My dear Rising Sun , And spoiled my dear Navy , And spoiled my dear Navy , Ah! what have you done . With torment oppressed , My stout heart is breaking , And Throne likewise shaking They'll seize with the rest my Kingdom and Crown , On my Fleet of defence That should keep them from hence I cannot depend , The Devil plays booty , The Devil plays booty , And Ruins his Friend . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Distracted French King : WITH And Account of his Raving Fit against his Coward - lie Sea-Commission-Officers , for suffering the total Destruc - cion of his powerful F leet Tune is , Let Marry Live Long . Licensed according to Order . F Rench Admirals all , Whom I have entrusted , Behold I'm disgusted , Your glory will fallen as well as my own , For our Enemies they Now have got the day , and Victory wone ; You've lost my whole Navy , You've lost my whole Navy , Rogues , what have you done ? Five Millions of Gold , With Silver at pleasure , A large sum of Treasure I gave you , behold , To Bribe their Trustees , You have waste [ worser ] the same , And returned home with shame Now where shall I run ? You've lost my great Navy , You've lost my great Navy , Rogues , what have you done ? A powerful Fleet , Captains in Commission , With stout Ammunition , And yet to be beatrice , This makes me run mad , Such a Cowardly crew , Sure the world never knew , What presently run , You've lost my whole Navy , You've lost my whole Navy , Rogues , what have you done ? You solemnly swore You'd raise my promortion , By sailing the Ocean ; Beside what is more , the Jacobites all That in England are , Would for L ewis declare , And yet could you run , You've lost m [ y ] whole Navy , You've lost [ m ] y whole Navy , Rogues , what have you done ? Beside I'm afraid Of what is ensuing , It will prove Ruin My Land they'll invade , And where am I then ? What they gain is their own , Royal Sceptre and Throne , Then where shall I run , You've lost my whole Navy , You've lost my whole Navy , Rogues , what you done ? We threatened them first , But Oh that false Devil , The Author of Evil , Let him be accursed , For failing his Friend , Go together like Sots , You have Ruined my Plots , And Cowardly run , You've lost my whole Navy , You've lost my whole Navy , Rogues , what have you done . I never shall have The Courage or Power That Land to devour , What could you not save My stout Men of war ? But let them be burned , Oh to Ashes they turned My dear Rising Sun , And spoiled my dear Navy , And spoiled my dear Navy , Ah! what have you done . With torment oppressed , My stout heart is breaking , And Throne likewise shaking They'll seize with the rest my Kingdom and Crown , On my Fleet of defence That should keep them from hence I cannot depend , The Devil plays booty , The Devil plays booty , And Ruins his Friend . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 