A COPY of VERSES , COMPOSED BY Captain Henry Every , LATELY Gone to SEA to seek his FORTUNE . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . COme all you brave Boys , whose Courage is bold , Will you venture with me , I'll glut you with Gold ? Make haste unto Corona , a Ship you will find , That's called the Fancy , will pleasure your mind . Captain Every is in her , and calls her his own ; He will box her about , Boys , before he has done : French , Spaniard and Portuguese , the Heathen likewise , He has made a War with them until that he die . Her Model's like Wax , and she sails like the Wind , She is rigged and fitted and curiously trimmed , And all things convenient has for his design ; God bless his poor Fancy , she's bound for the Mine . Farewell , fair Plimouth , and Cat-down be damned , I once was Part-owner of most of that Land ; But as I am disowned , so I'll abdicate My Person from England to attend on my Fate . Then away from this Climate and temperate Zone , To one that's more torrid , you'll hear I am gone , With and hundred and fifty brave Sparks of this Age , Woe are fully resolved their Foes to engage . These Northern Parts are not thrifty for me , I'll rise the Anterhise , that some Men shall see I am not afraid to let the World know , That to the South-Seas and to Persia I'll go . Our Names shall be blazed and spread in the Sky , And many brave Places I hope to descry , Where never a French man ever yet has been , Nor any proud Dut [ c ] h man can say he has seen . My Commission is large , and I made it my self , And the Capston shall stretch it full larger by half ; It was dated in Corona , believe it , my Friend , From the Year Ninety three , unto the World's end . I Honour St. George , and his Colours I were , Good Quarters I give , but no Nation I spare , The World must assist me with what I do want , I'll give them my Bill , when my Money is scant . Now this I do say and solemnly swear , He that strikes to St. George the better shall fare ; But he that refuses , shall suddenly spy Strange Colours abroad of my Fancy to fly . Four Chiviligies of Gold in a bloody Field , Environed with green , now this is my Shield ; Yet call out for Quarter , before you do see A bloody Flag out , which our Decree , No Quarters to give , no Quarters to take , We save nothing living , alas it's too late ; For we are now sworn by the Bred and the Wine , More serious we are than any Divine . Now this is the Course I intend for to steer ; My falsehearted Nation , to you I declare , I have done thee no wrong , thou must me forgive , The Sword shall maintain me as long as I live . London : Printed for Theophilus Lewis . A COPY of VERSES , COMPOSED BY Captain Henry Every , LATELY Gone to SEA to seek his FORTUNE . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . COme all you brave Boys , whose Courage is bold , Will you venture with me , I'll glut you with Gold ? Make haste unto Corona , a Ship you will find , That's called the Fancy , will pleasure your mind . Captain Every is in her , and calls her his own ; He will box her about , Boys , before he has done : French , Spaniard and Portuguese , the Heathen likewise , He has made a War with them until that he die . Her Model's like Wax , and she sails like the Wind , She is rigged and fitted and curiously trimmed , And all things convenient has for his design ; God bless his poor Fancy , she's bound for the Mine . Farewell , fair Plimouth , and Cat-down be damned , I once was Part-owner of most of that Land ; But as I am disowned , so I'll abdicate My Person from England to attend on my Fate . Then away from this Climate and temperate Zone , To one that's more torrid , you'll hear I am gone , With and hundred and fifty brave Sparks of this Age , Woe are fully resolved their Foes to engage . These Northern Parts are not thrifty for me , I'll rise the Anterhise , that some Men shall see I am not afraid to let the World know , That to the South-Seas and to Persia I'll go . Our Names shall be blazed and spread in the Sky , And many brave Places I hope to descry , Where never a French man ever yet has been , Nor any proud Dut [ c ] h man can say he has seen . My Commission is large , and I made it my self , And the Capston shall stretch it full larger by half ; It was dated in Corona , believe it , my Friend , From the Year Ninety three , unto the World's end . I Honour St. George , and his Colours I were , Good Quarters I give , but no Nation I spare , The World must assist me with what I do want , I'll give them my Bill , when my Money is scant . Now this I do say and solemnly swear , He that strikes to St. George the better shall fare ; But he that refuses , shall suddenly spy Strange Colours abroad of my Fancy to fly . Four Chiviligies of Gold in a bloody Field , Environed with green , now this is my Shield ; Yet call out for Quarter , before you do see A bloody Flag out , which our Decree , No Quarters to give , no Quarters to take , We save nothing living , alas it's too late ; For we are now sworn by the Bred and the Wine , More serious we are than any Divine . Now this is the Course I intend for to steer ; My falsehearted Nation , to you I declare , I have done thee no wrong , thou must me forgive , The Sword shall maintain me as long as I live . London : Printed for Theophilus Lewis . 