THE Triumph of the Seas ; OR , THE English and Dutch Victory over the French Fleet , To the Joy and Satisfaction of all Loyal Subject's . Tune is , Let Marry Live long . Licensed according to Order . I . HEre's News from the Fleet , Fill Bowls with Canary , To William and Mary , The French they are Beat , and shattered at Sea ; Loud Cannons did Roar , And laid them in Gore , while some of them Run : Now , now let them Vapour , Now , now let them Vapour , of what they have done . II They threatened this Land With desperate Ruin , Strange Plots they were Brewing , A French Armed Band they thought to bring over ; But brave English Boys , With Thundering Noise , has forced them to Run : Now let the French Vapour , Now let the French Vapour , of what they have done . III . The French hoisting Sail , Their whole Fleet together , But ( O ) the bad Weather , Soon made them turn Tail , in spite of their Crew ; Till our Admirals hight , With their thundering Shot , did cause them to Run : Now , now let them Vapour , Now , now let them Vapour , of what they have done . IV. Their best Ships of War , With Cannons like Thunder , We then rend in sunder , To punish them for their Impudent way ; Likewise many we Burned , While others returned , and homeward did run , To tell their old Master , To tell their old Master , of what they had done . V. The Jacobite Crew , False Rumours was raising , Our Captains dispraising , Yet this would not do , their Plot was in vain ; For the Enemy found , They were Loyal and found , and caused them to Run , To tell their old Master , To tell their old Master , now what they have done . VI . Was ever the like known ? Instead of their Landing , With Power Commanding , Their Fleet's overthrown , by true Men of War ; To their sorrow they find , We were all of one mind , and forced they to Run , To tell their old Master , To tell their old Master , Boys , what we have done . VII . Quoth Monsieur , Verdike , Wid horror they fill us , Nay , Wound us and Kill us , Begar me no like such Fire and Smoke ; For they pounce , pounce so fast , We're forced at last , like Cowards to Run ; Begar there's no boasting , Begar there's no boasting of what we have done . VIII . De Engelish they In heat of the Battle , Deir Cannons did rattle , A sharp bloody Fray we did undergo ; But Begar , now no more , Will we trouble deir Shore , but homeward now run , To tell our dear Master , To tell our dear Master , Fait , what they have done . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back 1692. THE Triumph of the Seas ; OR , THE English and Dutch Victory over the French Fleet , To the Joy and Satisfaction of all Loyal Subject's . Tune is , Let Marry Live long . Licensed according to Order . I . HEre's News from the Fleet , Fill Bowls with Canary , To William and Mary , The French they are Beat , and shattered at Sea ; Loud Cannons did Roar , And laid them in Gore , while some of them Run : Now , now let them Vapour , Now , now let them Vapour , of what they have done . II They threatened this Land With desperate Ruin , Strange Plots they were Brewing , A French Armed Band they thought to bring over ; But brave English Boys , With Thundering Noise , has forced them to Run : Now let the French Vapour , Now let the French Vapour , of what they have done . III . The French hoisting Sail , Their whole Fleet together , But ( O ) the bad Weather , Soon made them turn Tail , in spite of their Crew ; Till our Admirals hight , With their thundering Shot , did cause them to Run : Now , now let them Vapour , Now , now let them Vapour , of what they have done . IV. Their best Ships of War , With Cannons like Thunder , We then rend in sunder , To punish them for their Impudent way ; Likewise many we Burned , While others returned , and homeward did run , To tell their old Master , To tell their old Master , of what they had done . V. The Jacobite Crew , False Rumours was raising , Our Captains dispraising , Yet this would not do , their Plot was in vain ; For the Enemy found , They were Loyal and found , and caused them to Run , To tell their old Master , To tell their old Master , now what they have done . VI . Was ever the like known ? Instead of their Landing , With Power Commanding , Their Fleet's overthrown , by true Men of War ; To their sorrow they find , We were all of one mind , and forced they to Run , To tell their old Master , To tell their old Master , Boys , what we have done . VII . Quoth Monsieur , Verdike , Wid horror they fill us , Nay , Wound us and Kill us , Begar me no like such Fire and Smoke ; For they pounce , pounce so fast , We're forced at last , like Cowards to Run ; Begar there's no boasting , Begar there's no boasting of what we have done . VIII . De Engelish they In heat of the Battle , Deir Cannons did rattle , A sharp bloody Fray we did undergo ; But Begar , now no more , Will we trouble deir Shore , but homeward now run , To tell our dear Master , To tell our dear Master , Fait , what they have done . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back 1692. 