And Excellent New Song , Called , The Politic Lovers ; OR , THE London Merchant Outwitted . To the Tune of , Why should not I complain on thee . Licensed according to Oh [ r ] der . IN London City late did dwell A Merchant , rich and known full well , Who had a Daughter fair and young , With beauty bright , with beauty bright , and charming tongue . At Hackney she did board last spring , Only to learn to dance and sing , Her father he a Prentice had , Which was in Love , which was in Love with this fair maid . But when the father found it out , There was a heavy scolding Bout , He did command his Prentice sure , Never to see , never to see his Daughter more . The Prentice and his darling Dove , Found new ways to keep on their love , TO he secret is a pretty joke , Was managed by , 'twas managed by the Father's Cloak . For when the father he did go , To see his Daughter you must know , The Prentice would a Letter poke , Within the Cape , within the Cape of''s master's Cloak . So when to Hackney he was god , The weather being something hight , The daughter to the father said , Pray give your Cloak , pray give your Cloak unto the maid . Then straightways from the Cape would they Her Lovers Letters soon convey , Wherein the WORSER aughter she did find , TO hat still her Love , that still her Love was true and kind . The Daughter writ and Answer then , And put it in the C ape again ; The F ather said , my Daughterdear , Never entertain , never entertain my servant here . The Daughter then did weeping say , Dear father i'll not disobey , Upon which words he then did cry , You shall have all , you shall have all Girl when I die . But when the merchant he came back , The Prentice soon the Cloak did take , And in the Cape he straight did find , A Letter from , a Letter from his mistress kind . TO he Prentice said , O master pray , What made you thus Angry this day , To chide your Daughter so severe , And say , that I , and say , that I must never come there . He said , A Vizard you must be , O r how could you know this by me , But yet when he to Hackney went , The Prentice still , the P rentice still a L etter sent . So when he to his Daughter came , she asked him Questions of the same . Which made her Father stamp and stare , And cried a Witch , and cried a Witch i'm sure you are . At length the Merchant , he would know , How 'twas his man had tidings so , And then he did protest and swear , That he should have , that he should have , his Daughter fair . The man replied will you not blame The messenger that brought the same ; He then began to curse and ban , That he would never , that he would never forgive the man . I n the Cape of your Cloak then know , You brought our Letters too and from , Which made the Merchant smile and say , My Daughter you , my Daughter you shall wed this day . Printed by and for A. M . And Excellent New Song , Called , The Politic Lovers ; OR , THE London Merchant Outwitted . To the Tune of , Why should not I complain on thee . Licensed according to Oh [ r ] der . IN London City late did dwell A Merchant , rich and known full well , Who had a Daughter fair and young , With beauty bright , with beauty bright , and charming tongue . At Hackney she did board last spring , Only to learn to dance and sing , Her father he a Prentice had , Which was in Love , which was in Love with this fair maid . But when the father found it out , There was a heavy scolding Bout , He did command his Prentice sure , Never to see , never to see his Daughter more . The Prentice and his darling Dove , Found new ways to keep on their love , TO he secret is a pretty joke , Was managed by , 'twas managed by the Father's Cloak . For when the father he did go , To see his Daughter you must know , The Prentice would a Letter poke , Within the Cape , within the Cape of''s master's Cloak . So when to Hackney he was god , The weather being something hight , The daughter to the father said , Pray give your Cloak , pray give your Cloak unto the maid . Then straightways from the Cape would they Her Lovers Letters soon convey , Wherein the WORSER aughter she did find , TO hat still her Love , that still her Love was true and kind . The Daughter writ and Answer then , And put it in the C ape again ; The F ather said , my Daughterdear , Never entertain , never entertain my servant here . The Daughter then did weeping say , Dear father i'll not disobey , Upon which words he then did cry , You shall have all , you shall have all Girl when I die . But when the merchant he came back , The Prentice soon the Cloak did take , And in the Cape he straight did find , A Letter from , a Letter from his mistress kind . TO he Prentice said , O master pray , What made you thus Angry this day , To chide your Daughter so severe , And say , that I , and say , that I must never come there . He said , A Vizard you must be , O r how could you know this by me , But yet when he to Hackney went , The Prentice still , the P rentice still a L etter sent . So when he to his Daughter came , she asked him Questions of the same . Which made her Father stamp and stare , And cried a Witch , and cried a Witch i'm sure you are . At length the Merchant , he would know , How 'twas his man had tidings so , And then he did protest and swear , That he should have , that he should have , his Daughter fair . The man replied will you not blame The messenger that brought the same ; He then began to curse and ban , That he would never , that he would never forgive the man . I n the Cape of your Cloak then know , You brought our Letters too and from , Which made the Merchant smile and say , My Daughter you , my Daughter you shall wed this day . Printed by and for A. M. 