The Bakers Lamentation , Containing his Sorrowful Moan , for his late Misfortunes which he met with in the loss of his Legacies , left by the Pretended S choir Wickham . To the Tune of , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order 1. GOod people I pray now pity my case , no man was ever sure so served before , One seeming to be of a noble Raze , did leave me , both Gold and Silver store , I keeping a Bake-House in the Strand , received a Pretended Country Squire , Who said he had Horses , House and L and , and gave me what I could desire , Treasure , TO reasure , Riches out of measure , never was man so cheated by any , Of the Estate which he left me of late , I never shall receive one penny . 2. I never did know in all my life , a Person so G enerous , Frank and free , Six Hundred Pound he left my Wife , and many a Hundred more to me , My Wife she began to cast of care , concluding these L egacies now would make us , And I in my Folly did declare , I soon should be above a Bake-House , Bake-House , Bake-House , but our Friends forsake us , never was man so Cheated by any , etc 3. His means he divided so in shares , which showed him a L iberal noble Soul , TO hen I shed and Oven full of TO ears , his sorrowful Sickness to condole , TO he Docter with Glister-Pipes he came , who at my own cost I still rewarded , Concluding her easter in Rolls of Fame , my worthy deeds would be Recorded , C orded , corded , and with wealth rewarded , never n as man so Cheated by any , Of the Estate which was left me of late , I never shall receive one penny . 4. A Scrivener living here in TO own I tell you had greater luck than I , TO en Guinnies the Squire said set down , the Scrivener made him this reply , I must be a witness to the Will , and therefore said he , right worthy Squire , Pray lay me down what is your good will , and this is all I do desire , My W [ ife , ] my Wife , laid him down the Guinnies , [ n'er was man ] so [ b ] it by any , My [ Guinnies and cost ] is utterly lost , [ I never shall receive ] one penny , 5. TO his Sc [ r ] ibe had a taste of her kind love , when as the Will he begun to draw , She gave him a Guinny or two above , that he might make it according to L awe , Every Sillable firm and fair , and not in the least forget to name her , I needs must confess it was her care , and therefore I can no ways blame her , Blame her , blame her , but the loss will tame her , was ever man so bit by any , etc 6. Alas ! we were grown so great and high , that when a near neighbours daughter Nell . Did bring us a Pudding , with a Pie , desiring we would B ache them well ; We made a Reply in words , like these , your Father is Rich , but we are stronger , Pray carry you P udding where you please , we shall not Keep our TO rode much longer , Longer , L onger , not a B ake-House L onger , sure so mistaken never was any , Of the Estate which was left us of late , we never shall enjoy one penny . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Bakers Lamentation , Containing his Sorrowful Moan , for his late Misfortunes which he met with in the loss of his Legacies , left by the Pretended S choir Wickham . To the Tune of , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order 1. GOod people I pray now pity my case , no man was ever sure so served before , One seeming to be of a noble Raze , did leave me , both Gold and Silver store , I keeping a Bake-House in the Strand , received a Pretended Country Squire , Who said he had Horses , House and L and , and gave me what I could desire , Treasure , TO reasure , Riches out of measure , never was man so cheated by any , Of the Estate which he left me of late , I never shall receive one penny . 2. I never did know in all my life , a Person so G enerous , Frank and free , Six Hundred Pound he left my Wife , and many a Hundred more to me , My Wife she began to cast of care , concluding these L egacies now would make us , And I in my Folly did declare , I soon should be above a Bake-House , Bake-House , Bake-House , but our Friends forsake us , never was man so Cheated by any , etc 3. His means he divided so in shares , which showed him a L iberal noble Soul , TO hen I shed and Oven full of TO ears , his sorrowful Sickness to condole , TO he Docter with Glister-Pipes he came , who at my own cost I still rewarded , Concluding her easter in Rolls of Fame , my worthy deeds would be Recorded , C orded , corded , and with wealth rewarded , never n as man so Cheated by any , Of the Estate which was left me of late , I never shall receive one penny . 4. A Scrivener living here in TO own I tell you had greater luck than I , TO en Guinnies the Squire said set down , the Scrivener made him this reply , I must be a witness to the Will , and therefore said he , right worthy Squire , Pray lay me down what is your good will , and this is all I do desire , My W [ ife , ] my Wife , laid him down the Guinnies , [ n'er was man ] so [ b ] it by any , My [ Guinnies and cost ] is utterly lost , [ I never shall receive ] one penny , 5. TO his Sc [ r ] ibe had a taste of her kind love , when as the Will he begun to draw , She gave him a Guinny or two above , that he might make it according to L awe , Every Sillable firm and fair , and not in the least forget to name her , I needs must confess it was her care , and therefore I can no ways blame her , Blame her , blame her , but the loss will tame her , was ever man so bit by any , etc 6. Alas ! we were grown so great and high , that when a near neighbours daughter Nell . Did bring us a Pudding , with a Pie , desiring we would B ache them well ; We made a Reply in words , like these , your Father is Rich , but we are stronger , Pray carry you P udding where you please , we shall not Keep our TO rode much longer , Longer , L onger , not a B ake-House L onger , sure so mistaken never was any , Of the Estate which was left us of late , we never shall enjoy one penny . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 