THE Shoemakers Delight : Or , A brief Account of their MANLY ACTS AND Warlike Performances . To the Tune of , The Low-country Soldier . Licensed according to Order . Written by RICHARD RIGBY , a Brother of the CRAFT , YOu Gentle-Crafts both far and near , Unto this pleasant Song give ear , The which , in Honour of your Trade , Is now for lasting Glory made ; For never was it known , Any Trade but your's alone , Related to the Royal Throne : Brave Shoemakers of old , Where valiant , stout and bold , Right warlike noble Hearts of Gold . They live in Roles of lasting Fame , The first of which I here shall name , Was good Sir Hugh , a worthy Knight , Who for a Lady's Beauty bright , Did cross the raging Main , And when returned again ; This Trade alone did him maintain : Brave Shoemakers of old , Were valiant , stout and bold , Right warlike noble Hearts of Gold . Nay , farther still their Fame shall ring , Two Brother's , Sons unto a King , Crispine and Crispianus who , For fear of Death , in private flew From their Father's Royal Court , As Fame does still report , To Shoe-making they did resort , And learned this Trade of old , As we are truly told , And proved right valiant Hearts of Gold . To Feversham they came with care , And bound themselves both 'Prentice there ; Though Princes of a Royal Birth , They learned this Trade , and lived in Mirth : Crispianus took his way , To see a bloody Fray ; But Crispine he at home did stay : Brave Shoemakers of old , Where valiant , stout and bold , Right warlike noble Hearts of Gold . While Crispianus gained Renown , By hewing warlike Champions down , Young Crispine he at home remained , Where he a Lady's Favour gained ; Her Love had taken root , Therefore , without dispute , There's none but he could fit her Foot : Thus Shoemakers of old , As Chronicles have told , Were brave heroic Hearts of Gold . Nay , farther yet I will declare , Renowned London is brave Lord-mayor , Sir Simon Eyre called by Name , Was a brave Shoemaker of Fame : What Trade , I pray , beside , Was ever so glorified As Shoemakers , who has been tried By Feats of Arms of old , Both valiant , stout and bold , Heroic warlike Hearts of Gold ? A Shoemaker has been the Head Of a vast Army , which he led Like a Renowned General ; Wherefore this Trade we must extal Evermore , from Age to Age , For they'll mount the Warlike Stage , And never fearful to engage : Thus Shoemakers of old , Where valiant , stout and bold , Renowned warlike Hearts of Gold . For Quarterstaff , nay , Sword and Spear , There's few or none could ever come near Renowned Shoemakers , for they Did at those Weapons often play ; And they were so active grown , They would turn their Backs to none : Thus famous Shoemakers alone , Were the valiant Men of old , Most courageous stout and bold , Heroic warlike Hearts of Gold . London : Printed for J. Shooter . THE Shoemakers Delight : Or , A brief Account of their MANLY ACTS AND Warlike Performances . To the Tune of , The Low-country Soldier . Licensed according to Order . Written by RICHARD RIGBY , a Brother of the CRAFT , YOu Gentle-Crafts both far and near , Unto this pleasant Song give ear , The which , in Honour of your Trade , Is now for lasting Glory made ; For never was it known , Any Trade but your's alone , Related to the Royal Throne : Brave Shoemakers of old , Where valiant , stout and bold , Right warlike noble Hearts of Gold . They live in Roles of lasting Fame , The first of which I here shall name , Was good Sir Hugh , a worthy Knight , Who for a Lady's Beauty bright , Did cross the raging Main , And when returned again ; This Trade alone did him maintain : Brave Shoemakers of old , Were valiant , stout and bold , Right warlike noble Hearts of Gold . Nay , farther still their Fame shall ring , Two Brother's , Sons unto a King , Crispine and Crispianus who , For fear of Death , in private flew From their Father's Royal Court , As Fame does still report , To Shoe-making they did resort , And learned this Trade of old , As we are truly told , And proved right valiant Hearts of Gold . To Feversham they came with care , And bound themselves both 'Prentice there ; Though Princes of a Royal Birth , They learned this Trade , and lived in Mirth : Crispianus took his way , To see a bloody Fray ; But Crispine he at home did stay : Brave Shoemakers of old , Where valiant , stout and bold , Right warlike noble Hearts of Gold . While Crispianus gained Renown , By hewing warlike Champions down , Young Crispine he at home remained , Where he a Lady's Favour gained ; Her Love had taken root , Therefore , without dispute , There's none but he could fit her Foot : Thus Shoemakers of old , As Chronicles have told , Were brave heroic Hearts of Gold . Nay , farther yet I will declare , Renowned London is brave Lord-mayor , Sir Simon Eyre called by Name , Was a brave Shoemaker of Fame : What Trade , I pray , beside , Was ever so glorified As Shoemakers , who has been tried By Feats of Arms of old , Both valiant , stout and bold , Heroic warlike Hearts of Gold ? A Shoemaker has been the Head Of a vast Army , which he led Like a Renowned General ; Wherefore this Trade we must extal Evermore , from Age to Age , For they'll mount the Warlike Stage , And never fearful to engage : Thus Shoemakers of old , Where valiant , stout and bold , Renowned warlike Hearts of Gold . For Quarterstaff , nay , Sword and Spear , There's few or none could ever come near Renowned Shoemakers , for they Did at those Weapons often play ; And they were so active grown , They would turn their Backs to none : Thus famous Shoemakers alone , Were the valiant Men of old , Most courageous stout and bold , Heroic warlike Hearts of Gold . London : Printed for J. Shooter . 