The Children's Cries Against Their Barbarous & amp ; Cruel Father , BEING A Relation of a most inhumane Act committed by a Grave - maker of Marybone , upon his own Children , by endeavouring to Drown them ; and like - wise a strange Boy , whom he flung in a Pond that is about two Fields from Marybone , on Monday the 25th . of M ay , 1696. and of his being seized and sent to Prison . TO oh the TO une of , You Pretty M aidens all . CHildren both far and near , hear the sad fate , That had like to befell upon us late , By a father unkind , As by and you'll find , Who wickedly designed that we should die , Our father tother day asked us to walk , Into the fields where of Birds nests we talked , Brother and Sister we Walked most harmlessly , For we did not foresee death was designed . But in the Fields as we walked along , Coming just at the brink of a great Pond , Straightways my Father there Strangely on us did stare , Which made us dread and fear what he would do . My little Sister he presently flung From a bank headlong into the said Pond , Though she cried father dear , And shedded many a tear , Yet her cries would not hear , but flung her in . Then a strange boy that was near the Pond side , Seeing what mischief the Girl did betide ; Straightways began to run , But was too overcome , For soon my father flung him in the Pond . Then I began for to beg and to pray , Crying , O do not take my Life away ; I'll beg from door to door , And not come near you more , Yet bitterly he swore he'd drown me too . At which I Murder did out aloud cry , Which brought in people that were walking by ; When he perceived the throng , That to assistance come , In the Pond straight he run to save himself . And he laid hold upon my Sisters coat , Which caused the Girl on the water to float ; Then he held up her head , she being almost dead , And to a Post he fled , placed in the Pond . There for some time he stayed in spite of all , By the Hair of the Head , holding the Girl , Till at length he was took , Fast hold with a Well-hook , Which made him soon forsook the Post he held . After they took my Father from the Pond , With my young Sister that was almost drowned Then they looked for though Lad , Whom indeed was quite dead , He being knocked oth' head by cruel blows . Now for to see the Mother of this Lad , How distracted she's run since he is dead ; Cruel hearts must shed tears To see her in dispiar , Raving and pull her hair for her dead son . O Cruel Father , why would you us kill , And our innocent blood thus would spill ; And now in prison lie , And perhaps come to die , For Acting Bleodily on your Children . Printed for Charles Barnet . The Children's Cries Against Their Barbarous & amp ; Cruel Father , BEING A Relation of a most inhumane Act committed by a Grave - maker of Marybone , upon his own Children , by endeavouring to Drown them ; and like - wise a strange Boy , whom he flung in a Pond that is about two Fields from Marybone , on Monday the 25th . of M ay , 1696. and of his being seized and sent to Prison . TO oh the TO une of , You Pretty M aidens all . CHildren both far and near , hear the sad fate , That had like to befell upon us late , By a father unkind , As by and you'll find , Who wickedly designed that we should die , Our father tother day asked us to walk , Into the fields where of Birds nests we talked , Brother and Sister we Walked most harmlessly , For we did not foresee death was designed . But in the Fields as we walked along , Coming just at the brink of a great Pond , Straightways my Father there Strangely on us did stare , Which made us dread and fear what he would do . My little Sister he presently flung From a bank headlong into the said Pond , Though she cried father dear , And shedded many a tear , Yet her cries would not hear , but flung her in . Then a strange boy that was near the Pond side , Seeing what mischief the Girl did betide ; Straightways began to run , But was too overcome , For soon my father flung him in the Pond . Then I began for to beg and to pray , Crying , O do not take my Life away ; I'll beg from door to door , And not come near you more , Yet bitterly he swore he'd drown me too . At which I Murder did out aloud cry , Which brought in people that were walking by ; When he perceived the throng , That to assistance come , In the Pond straight he run to save himself . And he laid hold upon my Sisters coat , Which caused the Girl on the water to float ; Then he held up her head , she being almost dead , And to a Post he fled , placed in the Pond . There for some time he stayed in spite of all , By the Hair of the Head , holding the Girl , Till at length he was took , Fast hold with a Well-hook , Which made him soon forsook the Post he held . After they took my Father from the Pond , With my young Sister that was almost drowned Then they looked for though Lad , Whom indeed was quite dead , He being knocked oth' head by cruel blows . Now for to see the Mother of this Lad , How distracted she's run since he is dead ; Cruel hearts must shed tears To see her in dispiar , Raving and pull her hair for her dead son . O Cruel Father , why would you us kill , And our innocent blood thus would spill ; And now in prison lie , And perhaps come to die , For Acting Bleodily on your Children . Printed for Charles Barnet . 