THAT E Bloody minded Midwife , Containing and Account of many Infants whom she M urthured , or starved to Death , some of which were found in a Hand-Basket above Ground , others dug up in a Cellar , where she had Buried them . To the Astonishment of all Spectators . Tune of , Russels last Farewell . Licensed according to Order . GOOD People all I pray attend , unto a wicked deed , While these sad M ournful Lines I penned , my very herd did bleed , And so would any heart of stone , the Rich as well as Poor , For sure the like was never known , in any Age before . At Poplar , near fair London TO own , there did a M idwife dwell , Whose M urders calls just Vengeance down , since they do far excel , TO he greatest Villains in the Land , and that you all will own , When you the truth shall understand , 'twould melt a heart of stone . Full Three and Thirty Years ago , the M idwife did begin , And ever since , for ought we know , she has been Murdering , Young Infants from their M others Womb , when first they drew their breath , Starving she made their dismal doom , or some such Cruel Death . Neighbours observed her often times , which she could not endure , TO he better to conceal her Crimes , she kept her self Obscure , At last her sins full ripe did grow , Blood did for Vengeance Cry , And nothing can be hid we know , from Gods all seeing eye . TO he M idwife chanced to go from home , and left her servant M aid , Who after her did likewise rome , thus was they then betrayed , A little Girl and Boy was left , to Nurse a Babe likewise , Who was almost of Life bereft , starving with bitter cries . TO he Boy and Girl they made their moan , to some that passed the street , And cried that they were left alone , having no food to eat , But Water and one crumb of Cheese , to feed the Babe that cried , At which sad grief did greatly seize , Neighbours on every side . TO he Officers and other M en , did open straight the door , Whereas the Boy he told them then , that they might find two more , Young Children in a Basket dead . upon a shelf below , TO hey searched the Place as he had said , and found it even so . TO his spectacle amazed them all , so soon as they were found , Live Virmin did about them craul , while lying above ground , At length they dug the Cellar floor , directed by the Boy , Where they found six or seven more , the which she did destroy . O Cruel Wretch that this could do , a M onster to all good , How could she this her hands embrue , in little Infants blood , How could she slumber Night or Day , or take one wink of rest , While little M urthered Infants lay , which might her sleep molest , TO his M idwife she was seized at last , and to a Justice brought , And as along the streets she passed , she was with passion fraught , She then was soon to Newgate sent , where she's confined to lie , And though she may in tears lament , it's just that she should die . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-Field . THAT E Bloody minded Midwife , Containing and Account of many Infants whom she M urthured , or starved to Death , some of which were found in a Hand-Basket above Ground , others dug up in a Cellar , where she had Buried them . To the Astonishment of all Spectators . Tune of , Russels last Farewell . Licensed according to Order . GOOD People all I pray attend , unto a wicked deed , While these sad M ournful Lines I penned , my very herd did bleed , And so would any heart of stone , the Rich as well as Poor , For sure the like was never known , in any Age before . At Poplar , near fair London TO own , there did a M idwife dwell , Whose M urders calls just Vengeance down , since they do far excel , TO he greatest Villains in the Land , and that you all will own , When you the truth shall understand , 'twould melt a heart of stone . Full Three and Thirty Years ago , the M idwife did begin , And ever since , for ought we know , she has been Murdering , Young Infants from their M others Womb , when first they drew their breath , Starving she made their dismal doom , or some such Cruel Death . Neighbours observed her often times , which she could not endure , TO he better to conceal her Crimes , she kept her self Obscure , At last her sins full ripe did grow , Blood did for Vengeance Cry , And nothing can be hid we know , from Gods all seeing eye . TO he M idwife chanced to go from home , and left her servant M aid , Who after her did likewise rome , thus was they then betrayed , A little Girl and Boy was left , to Nurse a Babe likewise , Who was almost of Life bereft , starving with bitter cries . TO he Boy and Girl they made their moan , to some that passed the street , And cried that they were left alone , having no food to eat , But Water and one crumb of Cheese , to feed the Babe that cried , At which sad grief did greatly seize , Neighbours on every side . TO he Officers and other M en , did open straight the door , Whereas the Boy he told them then , that they might find two more , Young Children in a Basket dead . upon a shelf below , TO hey searched the Place as he had said , and found it even so . TO his spectacle amazed them all , so soon as they were found , Live Virmin did about them craul , while lying above ground , At length they dug the Cellar floor , directed by the Boy , Where they found six or seven more , the which she did destroy . O Cruel Wretch that this could do , a M onster to all good , How could she this her hands embrue , in little Infants blood , How could she slumber Night or Day , or take one wink of rest , While little M urthered Infants lay , which might her sleep molest , TO his M idwife she was seized at last , and to a Justice brought , And as along the streets she passed , she was with passion fraught , She then was soon to Newgate sent , where she's confined to lie , And though she may in tears lament , it's just that she should die . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-Field . 