The Counterfeit Coyner : OR , The Dying Lamentation of John Moor , the Tripe man , who was Arraigned and found Guilty of Counterfeiting the Coin of the Kingdom , and was accordingly Executed at Tyburn , on Fryday the 12 of July , 1695. To the Tune of , Russel is Farewell . Licensed according to Order . W Ith bleeding heart of heaviness , my dying moan I make , For since the laws I did transgress , this world I must forsake : The dreadful day is come at last at which I am dismayed , And troubled am for what is passed : farewell the Coyning-trade . Why did I thus increase my store , by such a crying since ? Whose bags were full enough before , had I contented been , But O! my greedy , greedy heart , no conscience could persuade , With life and riches I must part : farewell the Coyning-trade . While here I did to riches rise , I swelled with pride indeed , And often looked with scornful eyes , on those that stood in need ; So that I lost the love of all , the World does me degrade , They triumph at my fatal fallen , by my late Coyning-trade . With such a piece of vanity , the World shall seldom meet , as when with crowns I boasted I could pave all Peter's street ; This pride will have a fallen I find , and in the dust be laid , My riches I must leave behind : farewell the Coyning-trade . The wicked deed which I have done , I do repent too late ; My glass of life is almost run , o ! most unhappy fate , I must be now this very day , a sad example made , I having wrought my life's decay : farewell the Coyning-trade . In westminster , it is well known , I many years did dwell , But I myself have overthrown , for want of doing well ; Had it not been for cursed gold , I there might still have stayed , But now pale Death I do behold : farewell the Coyning-trade . Kind loving Friends be warned by me , you that Spectators are , A piece of bred with honesty , is better then rich fare , That's god by such unlawful ways , as money falsely made , For that has shortened now my days : farewell the Coyning-trade . My Children does their grief express in melting tears , for why I am their Father never the less , though by the laws I die ; Nature obliges them to grieve , yet all that can be said , With sighs of them I take my leave : farewell the Coyning-trade . How bitter is the thoughts of Death , which stare's me in the face , For now I must reside my breath , in shame and sad disgrace , While few or none will pity me , because such pranks I played , Therefore no hope of life I see : farewell the Coyning-trade . The latter minute is at hand , farewell the World affairs ; All you that now Spectators stand , assit me with your prayers : Into eternity I go , God grant my peace be made , Since Coining wrought my overthrow , farewell that wicked trade . Printed for J. Bissel , at the sign of the bible and harp in West-Smithfield . The Counterfeit Coyner : OR , The Dying Lamentation of John Moor , the Tripe man , who was Arraigned and found Guilty of Counterfeiting the Coin of the Kingdom , and was accordingly Executed at Tyburn , on Fryday the 12 of July , 1695. To the Tune of , Russel is Farewell . Licensed according to Order . W Ith bleeding heart of heaviness , my dying moan I make , For since the laws I did transgress , this world I must forsake : The dreadful day is come at last at which I am dismayed , And troubled am for what is passed : farewell the Coyning-trade . Why did I thus increase my store , by such a crying since ? Whose bags were full enough before , had I contented been , But O! my greedy , greedy heart , no conscience could persuade , With life and riches I must part : farewell the Coyning-trade . While here I did to riches rise , I swelled with pride indeed , And often looked with scornful eyes , on those that stood in need ; So that I lost the love of all , the World does me degrade , They triumph at my fatal fallen , by my late Coyning-trade . With such a piece of vanity , the World shall seldom meet , as when with crowns I boasted I could pave all Peter's street ; This pride will have a fallen I find , and in the dust be laid , My riches I must leave behind : farewell the Coyning-trade . The wicked deed which I have done , I do repent too late ; My glass of life is almost run , o ! most unhappy fate , I must be now this very day , a sad example made , I having wrought my life's decay : farewell the Coyning-trade . In westminster , it is well known , I many years did dwell , But I myself have overthrown , for want of doing well ; Had it not been for cursed gold , I there might still have stayed , But now pale Death I do behold : farewell the Coyning-trade . Kind loving Friends be warned by me , you that Spectators are , A piece of bred with honesty , is better then rich fare , That's god by such unlawful ways , as money falsely made , For that has shortened now my days : farewell the Coyning-trade . My Children does their grief express in melting tears , for why I am their Father never the less , though by the laws I die ; Nature obliges them to grieve , yet all that can be said , With sighs of them I take my leave : farewell the Coyning-trade . How bitter is the thoughts of Death , which stare's me in the face , For now I must reside my breath , in shame and sad disgrace , While few or none will pity me , because such pranks I played , Therefore no hope of life I see : farewell the Coyning-trade . The latter minute is at hand , farewell the World affairs ; All you that now Spectators stand , assit me with your prayers : Into eternity I go , God grant my peace be made , Since Coining wrought my overthrow , farewell that wicked trade . Printed for J. Bissel , at the sign of the bible and harp in West-Smithfield . 