And Excellent New SONG , Called , Captain Winter's last Farewell To the WORLD ; Or His Mournful parting with His Wife and Children , Who was Executed in Fleetstreet , May 17th 1693. Tune of , All Happy Times : GOod People that do see my End , Be cautious how your Time you spend Without a watchful Care each day , The best that is may go astray . It's true a shameful Death I die For which some will me villefie , But why should I ashamed be Since my dear Saviour died for me . I beg all mercy from above , The joyful peace of Heavenly Love , As for this Life I freely give , And beg God would my Soul receive , Adieu my dear and loving Wife , For now I must depart this Life ; The Fates does call , I can't withstand , Grim Death , who once will all Command . But still my Prayers is for you Dear , That you would this with Patience bear ; Be not cast down , but be content , Although Death is my Punishment . My next advice to thee my Love , Is that thou servest thy God above , And then I doubt not but he will Preserve thee from all danger still . My little Lambs I bid adieu , And leave the Charge of them to you ; Such tender Care I know you'll take , That shall be for the Children's Sake . I am concerned the more my dear Because a Child thee now dost bear , Therefore thy sorrow is the more But God I hope will thee Restore . Farewell , for evermore adieu This is the last farewell to you , When thou a Widow once shall be I hope the Lord will cherish thee . I hope I hant forget the Prayer Which God in Mercy did declare , That all the World would me forgive As I do them while here I live . I die with all the World in Peace , And hope that when my Breath does cease My Soul may unto Heaven fly , And there remain Eternally . My Spirit Lord I recommend Unto my Saviour , Man's best friend I come Oh Lord , I come to Thee , Oh grant me blessed Eternity . Printed and Sold by T. More . 1693. And Excellent New SONG , Called , Captain Winter's last Farewell To the WORLD ; Or His Mournful parting with His Wife and Children , Who was Executed in Fleetstreet , May 17th 1693. Tune of , All Happy Times : GOod People that do see my End , Be cautious how your Time you spend Without a watchful Care each day , The best that is may go astray . It's true a shameful Death I die For which some will me villefie , But why should I ashamed be Since my dear Saviour died for me . I beg all mercy from above , The joyful peace of Heavenly Love , As for this Life I freely give , And beg God would my Soul receive , Adieu my dear and loving Wife , For now I must depart this Life ; The Fates does call , I can't withstand , Grim Death , who once will all Command . But still my Prayers is for you Dear , That you would this with Patience bear ; Be not cast down , but be content , Although Death is my Punishment . My next advice to thee my Love , Is that thou servest thy God above , And then I doubt not but he will Preserve thee from all danger still . My little Lambs I bid adieu , And leave the Charge of them to you ; Such tender Care I know you'll take , That shall be for the Children's Sake . I am concerned the more my dear Because a Child thee now dost bear , Therefore thy sorrow is the more But God I hope will thee Restore . Farewell , for evermore adieu This is the last farewell to you , When thou a Widow once shall be I hope the Lord will cherish thee . I hope I hant forget the Prayer Which God in Mercy did declare , That all the World would me forgive As I do them while here I live . I die with all the World in Peace , And hope that when my Breath does cease My Soul may unto Heaven fly , And there remain Eternally . My Spirit Lord I recommend Unto my Saviour , Man's best friend I come Oh Lord , I come to Thee , Oh grant me blessed Eternity . Printed and Sold by T. More . 1693. 