Sir JOHN FRIEND and Sir WILLIAM PERKINS Last Farewell to the World , Who were Executed at Tyburn , on Friday the 3d. of April , 1696. Or Their Sorrowful Lamentation For being Concerned in this Horrid and Bloody PLOT . Tune of , ' It within a Furlong of Edenborough TO [ oh ] wn . 1. THE Riddle is Expounded , the Plot is very plain , And some there be that's hanged & amp ; others daily taken , Some lie till Condemnation for this Assassination , As Knighted Perkins , Friend with firkins each had a Commission To raise a Troop for the late King's use , While French Dragoons were Landed to England's great abuse . But now we all may sing God bless William our King , While Traitors , Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing . 2. O Sir John Friend , what meant you to be in this same Plot ? For what this World afforded , sure Sir you wanted not : You'd Riches in great Measure and Houses much for Pleasure , And when you please , you lived at ease enjoying still your Treasure . O , what then made you Plot for the Romish Crew , And for to bring King James in , who would the Land undo But now we all may sing , God bless William our King , While Traitors Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing . 3. There's Learned Perkins too , who the Law well understood , Yet foolishly for Papists must lose his dearest Blood : A Commission he received at which he's now much grieved 'Twas for to bring the late King in , but now he is deceived , And farther too was to show his Wit , To Murder Royal William , but now they're all beshit . While honest men do sing , God bless William our King , While Traitors , Traitors , England's Haters , all in Halters swing . 4. Alas , when they were taken , they would not own their Crime . But yet to save their Bacon , they [ ' ] worser give great store of Coin [ , ] For when that they were Tried , they could not once deny it , It's come about , the Plot's made out , and honest Men defy it , And cries out , O Miss [ e ] ry's tthe End That does attend Sir William and likewise Sir John Friend . But now we all may sing God bless William our King , While Traitors , Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing 5. There's many Plotters more who in time may have their doom And end their lives at Tyburn all for the Sons of Rome : But Sir John Friend in season was taken for this Treason . Sir William too , for this damned Crew were both Condemn with reason . And such a Plot before was never seen , To kill the King in's Coach betwixt Brandford and Turnam Green . But now we all may sing , God bless William our King , While Traitors , Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing . 6. But what a Scandal is it unto us all at home , That English-men should Act for the Interest of Rome : Sure he's a cruel Villain that is thus for Blood spilling , But yet I hope he'l catch a Rope that is thus for King-killing And have Sir William and Sir John ' s desert , From Newgate drawn to Tyburn in a Sledge or Cart ; While honest Men do sing , God bless William our King , Let Traitors , Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing . Printed for J. Carew in Old Bedlam , 1696. Sir JOHN FRIEND and Sir WILLIAM PERKINS Last Farewell to the World , Who were Executed at Tyburn , on Friday the 3d. of April , 1696. Or Their Sorrowful Lamentation For being Concerned in this Horrid and Bloody PLOT . Tune of , ' It within a Furlong of Edenborough TO [ oh ] wn . 1. THE Riddle is Expounded , the Plot is very plain , And some there be that's hanged & amp ; others daily taken , Some lie till Condemnation for this Assassination , As Knighted Perkins , Friend with firkins each had a Commission To raise a Troop for the late King's use , While French Dragoons were Landed to England's great abuse . But now we all may sing God bless William our King , While Traitors , Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing . 2. O Sir John Friend , what meant you to be in this same Plot ? For what this World afforded , sure Sir you wanted not : You'd Riches in great Measure and Houses much for Pleasure , And when you please , you lived at ease enjoying still your Treasure . O , what then made you Plot for the Romish Crew , And for to bring King James in , who would the Land undo But now we all may sing , God bless William our King , While Traitors Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing . 3. There's Learned Perkins too , who the Law well understood , Yet foolishly for Papists must lose his dearest Blood : A Commission he received at which he's now much grieved 'Twas for to bring the late King in , but now he is deceived , And farther too was to show his Wit , To Murder Royal William , but now they're all beshit . While honest men do sing , God bless William our King , While Traitors , Traitors , England's Haters , all in Halters swing . 4. Alas , when they were taken , they would not own their Crime . But yet to save their Bacon , they [ ' ] worser give great store of Coin [ , ] For when that they were Tried , they could not once deny it , It's come about , the Plot's made out , and honest Men defy it , And cries out , O Miss [ e ] ry's tthe End That does attend Sir William and likewise Sir John Friend . But now we all may sing God bless William our King , While Traitors , Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing 5. There's many Plotters more who in time may have their doom And end their lives at Tyburn all for the Sons of Rome : But Sir John Friend in season was taken for this Treason . Sir William too , for this damned Crew were both Condemn with reason . And such a Plot before was never seen , To kill the King in's Coach betwixt Brandford and Turnam Green . But now we all may sing , God bless William our King , While Traitors , Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing . 6. But what a Scandal is it unto us all at home , That English-men should Act for the Interest of Rome : Sure he's a cruel Villain that is thus for Blood spilling , But yet I hope he'l catch a Rope that is thus for King-killing And have Sir William and Sir John ' s desert , From Newgate drawn to Tyburn in a Sledge or Cart ; While honest Men do sing , God bless William our King , Let Traitors , Traitors , England ' s Haters , all in Halters swing . Printed for J. Carew in Old Bedlam , 1696. 