THE Murderer's Moan ; OR , The Penitent Lamentation of J. B. Gent , for the Murder of his Wife Elizabeth , which he bitterly L amented , a little before his Execution , which was at Tyburn , on the 18 th of this Instant Sep - tember , 1691. Tune of , Johnson's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . W Ith aching heart this day I write a mournful Tragedy ; Before my Soul is taking flight , into Eternity : That men who see my wretched state , may warned be therefore ; Let not Repentance come too late , God's mercies I implore . Unto my Grief I do confess , this day I guilty stand , Of Blood which does my Soul oppress , behold this Cruel Hand Which I stretched forth against my dear , to take her Life away ; How am I able to appear in this another day . My Parents did in wealth abound , and I their Youthful Son , A Fair Sweet Charming Creature found , by whom my heart was wone ; I married making her my Wife , though of a mean degree , Then did I take away her Life , was this not Cruelty . It constantly run in my mind , for to make short her days , And then I might some Lady find , who would my fortune raise ; These was my thoughts , dear friends behold , who was with malice fraught ; Thus for the sake of cursed Gold , I am to ruin brought . The Snare that for my Love I laid , was by a Letter sent ; Poor heart my will she straight obeyed , not knowing my intent ; She came and met her only Joy , well pleased that she might , But there her Life I did destroy , this was a bloody night . For why she like a Lamb indeed , did to her Slaughter go , And when she for her Life did plead , no pity would I show ; But did the bloody Knife extend , which gave the fatal wound , For which my Life is at and end , with Sorrows compassed round . My hands I did begin to wring , and did her Death condole ; For Conscience straight began to sting my double-guilty Soul ; Like one distracted in my mind , I wander too and from , And could no peace or quiet find , mine Eyes with tears did flow . I have been wounded to the heart , tormented night and day ; For why before she did depart , as on the Ground she lay , She struggled with me for her life , and cried most bitterly , Have pity on your lawful Wife , and do not murder me . When I before the Judgment-Seat of the great God appear , And with my murdered Wife shall meet , if God should be severe : Alas ! what will become of me , whose Deeds have been unjust ? But there is mercy , Lord , with thee , in whom I put my trust . O that I never had Guilty been , for why , I do declare , This Murder is a crying since , which Mortal cannot bear ; I die , I die a shameful Death , which does my Parents grieve ; Yet when I shall resign my breath , good Lord my Soul receive . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Murderer's Moan ; OR , The Penitent Lamentation of J. B. Gent , for the Murder of his Wife Elizabeth , which he bitterly L amented , a little before his Execution , which was at Tyburn , on the 18 th of this Instant Sep - tember , 1691. Tune of , Johnson's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . W Ith aching heart this day I write a mournful Tragedy ; Before my Soul is taking flight , into Eternity : That men who see my wretched state , may warned be therefore ; Let not Repentance come too late , God's mercies I implore . Unto my Grief I do confess , this day I guilty stand , Of Blood which does my Soul oppress , behold this Cruel Hand Which I stretched forth against my dear , to take her Life away ; How am I able to appear in this another day . My Parents did in wealth abound , and I their Youthful Son , A Fair Sweet Charming Creature found , by whom my heart was wone ; I married making her my Wife , though of a mean degree , Then did I take away her Life , was this not Cruelty . It constantly run in my mind , for to make short her days , And then I might some Lady find , who would my fortune raise ; These was my thoughts , dear friends behold , who was with malice fraught ; Thus for the sake of cursed Gold , I am to ruin brought . The Snare that for my Love I laid , was by a Letter sent ; Poor heart my will she straight obeyed , not knowing my intent ; She came and met her only Joy , well pleased that she might , But there her Life I did destroy , this was a bloody night . For why she like a Lamb indeed , did to her Slaughter go , And when she for her Life did plead , no pity would I show ; But did the bloody Knife extend , which gave the fatal wound , For which my Life is at and end , with Sorrows compassed round . My hands I did begin to wring , and did her Death condole ; For Conscience straight began to sting my double-guilty Soul ; Like one distracted in my mind , I wander too and from , And could no peace or quiet find , mine Eyes with tears did flow . I have been wounded to the heart , tormented night and day ; For why before she did depart , as on the Ground she lay , She struggled with me for her life , and cried most bitterly , Have pity on your lawful Wife , and do not murder me . When I before the Judgment-Seat of the great God appear , And with my murdered Wife shall meet , if God should be severe : Alas ! what will become of me , whose Deeds have been unjust ? But there is mercy , Lord , with thee , in whom I put my trust . O that I never had Guilty been , for why , I do declare , This Murder is a crying since , which Mortal cannot bear ; I die , I die a shameful Death , which does my Parents grieve ; Yet when I shall resign my breath , good Lord my Soul receive . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 