The Plotters Reward : OR , Sir John Fenwick ' s Last Farewell to the World , who wa [ s ] Beheaded on Tower-Hill , the 28 th . of January , 1696. To the Tune of , Russels Farewell , etc I Now , alas ! this very Day , must bid Adieu to all ; And in this world hant long to stay , here's Thousands sees my fallen : That I a Traitor hence must part , all know the reason why , Who say , it is but my desert , For Plotting I must die . O what a wretched man was I , content I could not be , But must conspire Treachery , which thus hath Ruined me : But now too late I do Repent my wicked Villainy , Which makes my dying-heart relent , For Plotting I must die . I with some others did Combine , ( which on me woe does bring ) And treacherously we did design to Kill William the King : But the great God did us prevent ; and I for mercy cry , Who here must suffer Punishment , For Plotting I must die . If this our Plot had took effect , it was our full design , The Nation should have suffered next , to which we all did join , By and Invasion to bring in King James and Popery , Which would a Bloody Day have been . For Plotting I must die . O glorious God , who sits above , have mercy now on me , Oh let me find thy gracious love , and bring my soul to thee : Forgive my Cursed Sins , Oh Lord , and Acts of Treachery , Some pity unto me afford , Who must for Plotting die . For here's no Mercy to be found from hands of Mortal Men , I am with griefs encompassed round , scarce any Man's my friend , It cuts me to the very heart , when some against me cry , It is no more than my desert , For Plotting I must die . Because that I was one chief cause , and did with others aid , For to bring in the Romish Laws , for so our Plot was laid : How can I now for mercy look , when by my Treachery , I would on no one pity took , For Plotting I must die . Upon the block my Neck I lay , for this my Horrid Crime , I wish that I a warning may be unto all in time . So hoping Lord my sins most foul , thou'lt pardon graciously , I to thy hands commit my soul , For Plotting here I die . Printed for Charles Barnet , 1697. The Plotters Reward : OR , Sir John Fenwick ' s Last Farewell to the World , who wa [ s ] Beheaded on Tower-Hill , the 28 th . of January , 1696. To the Tune of , Russels Farewell , etc I Now , alas ! this very Day , must bid Adieu to all ; And in this world hant long to stay , here's Thousands sees my fallen : That I a Traitor hence must part , all know the reason why , Who say , it is but my desert , For Plotting I must die . O what a wretched man was I , content I could not be , But must conspire Treachery , which thus hath Ruined me : But now too late I do Repent my wicked Villainy , Which makes my dying-heart relent , For Plotting I must die . I with some others did Combine , ( which on me woe does bring ) And treacherously we did design to Kill William the King : But the great God did us prevent ; and I for mercy cry , Who here must suffer Punishment , For Plotting I must die . If this our Plot had took effect , it was our full design , The Nation should have suffered next , to which we all did join , By and Invasion to bring in King James and Popery , Which would a Bloody Day have been . For Plotting I must die . O glorious God , who sits above , have mercy now on me , Oh let me find thy gracious love , and bring my soul to thee : Forgive my Cursed Sins , Oh Lord , and Acts of Treachery , Some pity unto me afford , Who must for Plotting die . For here's no Mercy to be found from hands of Mortal Men , I am with griefs encompassed round , scarce any Man's my friend , It cuts me to the very heart , when some against me cry , It is no more than my desert , For Plotting I must die . Because that I was one chief cause , and did with others aid , For to bring in the Romish Laws , for so our Plot was laid : How can I now for mercy look , when by my Treachery , I would on no one pity took , For Plotting I must die . Upon the block my Neck I lay , for this my Horrid Crime , I wish that I a warning may be unto all in time . So hoping Lord my sins most foul , thou'lt pardon graciously , I to thy hands commit my soul , For Plotting here I die . Printed for Charles Barnet , 1697. 