The Penitent Traitors : OR , THE Last Dying Lamentation of Charnock , Keys , and King , Who was all three arraigned and found guilty of High Treason , on the 11th Day of this Instant March , and accordingly received Sentence of Death , and was executed at Tyburn , on Wednesday the 18th of March , 1695. To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell . FArewel to blind Ambition now , which puffed us up with pride , This fatal Day we know not how the Torment to abide : A bitter ignominious Death , does now the Conscience sting , Of we that must resign our Breath , poor Charnock , Keys , and King . We must confess with dying Tears , it was a hellish Plot , Our royal King , Dukes , Lords and Peers , were all to go to pot ; A horrid piece of Villainy , which does our Ruin bring , For we are all condemned to Due , both Charnock , Keys , and King . among us there was not a Man , but thought to rise with speed ; Thus hope of Fortune pushed us on , to make the Nation bleed , Both young and old , nay , great and small , to Death we thought to bring , For which you see the dismal fallen of Charnock , Keys , and King . What Consultations did we hold in Taverns day by day ? With Conspirators manifold , to take the Life away , Of his most royal Majesty , and sad Destruction bring , For which we die deservedly , both Charnock , Keys , and King . We might have lived in happy state , under this Government , But we were so unfortunate , that nothing could content Our restless Souls , but blood alone , for which in grief we ring , Our dying hands with melting moan , both Charnock , Keys , and King . What mercy can we think to find , from a provoked Prince , Whose Death we bloodily designed ? no , no , that black offence , Is passed the reach of pardon sure , or any such like thing , The pains of Death we must endure , both Charnock , Keys , and King . On February's fifteenth day , likewise the twenty two , Te fatal Snare we thought to lay , our hands for to embrue In Royal Blood , like Villains base , which was a dreadful thing ; Therefore we Die in sad disgrace , both Charnock , Keys , and King . A heinous Crime it does appear , which we are sentenced for , Under our Condemnation here , the Fact we do abhor ; For 'twas against our Sovereign Lord , that we did plot this thing , So Death is but a just Reward , to Charnock , Keys , and King . It is well known there's many more belonging to our Crew , We only led the way before , the rest must follow too ; For Traitors that the Laws offend , their own Destruction bri [ n ] g , Dear Friends , behold the dismal end of Charnock , Keys , and King . We do advice all you that stand about us in this place , Never to betray your Native-land , but beg of God for Grace : Against the Lord's Anoited see you hatch no evil thing , Think of the fatal Destiny of Charnock , Keys , and King . London : Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-smithfield . The Penitent Traitors : OR , THE Last Dying Lamentation of Charnock , Keys , and King , Who was all three arraigned and found guilty of High Treason , on the 11th Day of this Instant March , and accordingly received Sentence of Death , and was executed at Tyburn , on Wednesday the 18th of March , 1695. To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell . FArewel to blind Ambition now , which puffed us up with pride , This fatal Day we know not how the Torment to abide : A bitter ignominious Death , does now the Conscience sting , Of we that must resign our Breath , poor Charnock , Keys , and King . We must confess with dying Tears , it was a hellish Plot , Our royal King , Dukes , Lords and Peers , were all to go to pot ; A horrid piece of Villainy , which does our Ruin bring , For we are all condemned to Due , both Charnock , Keys , and King . among us there was not a Man , but thought to rise with speed ; Thus hope of Fortune pushed us on , to make the Nation bleed , Both young and old , nay , great and small , to Death we thought to bring , For which you see the dismal fallen of Charnock , Keys , and King . What Consultations did we hold in Taverns day by day ? With Conspirators manifold , to take the Life away , Of his most royal Majesty , and sad Destruction bring , For which we die deservedly , both Charnock , Keys , and King . We might have lived in happy state , under this Government , But we were so unfortunate , that nothing could content Our restless Souls , but blood alone , for which in grief we ring , Our dying hands with melting moan , both Charnock , Keys , and King . What mercy can we think to find , from a provoked Prince , Whose Death we bloodily designed ? no , no , that black offence , Is passed the reach of pardon sure , or any such like thing , The pains of Death we must endure , both Charnock , Keys , and King . On February's fifteenth day , likewise the twenty two , Te fatal Snare we thought to lay , our hands for to embrue In Royal Blood , like Villains base , which was a dreadful thing ; Therefore we Die in sad disgrace , both Charnock , Keys , and King . A heinous Crime it does appear , which we are sentenced for , Under our Condemnation here , the Fact we do abhor ; For 'twas against our Sovereign Lord , that we did plot this thing , So Death is but a just Reward , to Charnock , Keys , and King . It is well known there's many more belonging to our Crew , We only led the way before , the rest must follow too ; For Traitors that the Laws offend , their own Destruction bri [ n ] g , Dear Friends , behold the dismal end of Charnock , Keys , and King . We do advice all you that stand about us in this place , Never to betray your Native-land , but beg of God for Grace : Against the Lord's Anoited see you hatch no evil thing , Think of the fatal Destiny of Charnock , Keys , and King . London : Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-smithfield . 