The NOTORIOUS Robbers Lamentation . OR , Whitneys Sorrowful Ditty , In the Gaol of Newgate : Together , with and Account of his Dream that Morning before he was taken . Tune of , Russels Farewell . Licensed according to Order . I On the Roads have Reigned long , in open Villainy , But now , with Iron Fetters strong , in Prison close I lie . Farewell to all my Jovial Crew , Courageous , Stout and Bold ; I now must bid you all adieu , stout Whitney lies in hold . I , that have taken many a Purse , must now submit to Fate ; The Frowns of Fortune here I curse , to see my wretched state : The Liberty which once I had , by Law is now controlled , And many Thousands now is glad that Whitney is in hold . The Lyons heart , which once I boar within this Breast of mine , Is now with sorrows grieved soar , that life I must Resine : The stoutest hearts will shrink at death , and wax with sorrow cold , Erelong I must yield up my Breath , since I am here in hold . Oh! why was I so void of Fear , when wait I knew was laid , To Seize and Apprehend me here , for Pranks which I have played , It was my hardened impudence which made me sure so bold , But for my former cross offence , stout Whitney lies in hold . Near Houndsditch I was know by one , who watched me where I went , Then for and Officer did run ; I finding his intent , WORSER id draw my naked Sword in hand , being Courageous bold , But I their force could not withstand , but soon was laid in hold . My Sword and Pistols were in vain , they could not clear the way , Hundreds and Thousands flocked amain , entreating me to stay , They being glad to see my Face , as I was often told , And they did guard me to this place , where now I lie in hold . My very Ears they did annoy , for the Tumultuous Throng , With Shouts and loud Huzzas of Joy , Conducted me along . Thus have I ended the Old Year , with heart both chilled and cold , The hand of Justice now I fear , since being in strong hold . Straitways I found a New-Years Gift , they did on me bestow , Almost as much as I could lift , Oh this was love you know , A pair of Fetters strong and stout , of Bars of Iron cold , As much as I could drag about , to keep me in strong hold . I find that dreams are Ominous , for just the Night before , Methought I see old Hercules fighting with Thousands more , Yet at the length he was subdued , though Valiant Stout and Bold : This meant my self I do conclude , who now am in strong hold . My Glory now is at and end , I nothing see but shame , For since I did the Laws offend , I suffer for the same , I never do expect to find mercy from them , not I , To Villainy I was inclined , For which I now must die . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The NOTORIOUS Robbers Lamentation . OR , Whitneys Sorrowful Ditty , In the Gaol of Newgate : Together , with and Account of his Dream that Morning before he was taken . Tune of , Russels Farewell . Licensed according to Order . I On the Roads have Reigned long , in open Villainy , But now , with Iron Fetters strong , in Prison close I lie . Farewell to all my Jovial Crew , Courageous , Stout and Bold ; I now must bid you all adieu , stout Whitney lies in hold . I , that have taken many a Purse , must now submit to Fate ; The Frowns of Fortune here I curse , to see my wretched state : The Liberty which once I had , by Law is now controlled , And many Thousands now is glad that Whitney is in hold . The Lyons heart , which once I boar within this Breast of mine , Is now with sorrows grieved soar , that life I must Resine : The stoutest hearts will shrink at death , and wax with sorrow cold , Erelong I must yield up my Breath , since I am here in hold . Oh! why was I so void of Fear , when wait I knew was laid , To Seize and Apprehend me here , for Pranks which I have played , It was my hardened impudence which made me sure so bold , But for my former cross offence , stout Whitney lies in hold . Near Houndsditch I was know by one , who watched me where I went , Then for and Officer did run ; I finding his intent , WORSER id draw my naked Sword in hand , being Courageous bold , But I their force could not withstand , but soon was laid in hold . My Sword and Pistols were in vain , they could not clear the way , Hundreds and Thousands flocked amain , entreating me to stay , They being glad to see my Face , as I was often told , And they did guard me to this place , where now I lie in hold . My very Ears they did annoy , for the Tumultuous Throng , With Shouts and loud Huzzas of Joy , Conducted me along . Thus have I ended the Old Year , with heart both chilled and cold , The hand of Justice now I fear , since being in strong hold . Straitways I found a New-Years Gift , they did on me bestow , Almost as much as I could lift , Oh this was love you know , A pair of Fetters strong and stout , of Bars of Iron cold , As much as I could drag about , to keep me in strong hold . I find that dreams are Ominous , for just the Night before , Methought I see old Hercules fighting with Thousands more , Yet at the length he was subdued , though Valiant Stout and Bold : This meant my self I do conclude , who now am in strong hold . My Glory now is at and end , I nothing see but shame , For since I did the Laws offend , I suffer for the same , I never do expect to find mercy from them , not I , To Villainy I was inclined , For which I now must die . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 