THE Mournful Plotters : OR , THE Sorrowful Lamentation of several Conspi - rators within the Walls of Newgate ; being sadly of - flicted with a Fear they shall Die in a Heretic Hal - ter . To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell . WIthin these Prison Walls we lie , sweet loving Sons of Rome , Whose bloody Zeal for Popery , has pointed out our doom , Which is to go to Trussam - fair , the Fate we cannot miss , It's very sad I do declare , who would have thought of this ? We were indeed as fine a Knot , as ever yet was known , To carry on a Popish-plot , and undermined a Throne ; The French was ready at our call , yet we the Mark did miss , Our Devil has deceived us all , who would have thought of this ? Old Lewis waits to hear the news , what his dear Trouts have done ; But we alas , our Lives must lose , from hence we cannot run ; They'll search the Land and City round , ever one of us they'll miss , At length we shall be guilty found , who would have thought of this ? When first the Plot had taken wind , we scoured too and from , But could no place of safety find , wherever we did go ; Alength our Coachman did mistrust , that we had done amiss , And gave his Information first , who would have thought of this ? The Steelyard near the Waterside , we may remember well , For there we went ourselves to hide , as in a lonesome Cell ; They knew us not , we called for Wine , ever we the Glass could kiss , The Coach man came with eight or nine , who would have thobght of this ? Here we confess it was not late , when as we settled there , And yet they took us napping straight , as Moss he catched his Mare : My Brother looked like yea and nay , and I was much amiss , Alas ! alas ! what shall we say ? who would have thought of this ? The Coachman chanced to overhear . my loving Brother say , We shall be known , ever long I fear . if in the Town we stay ; This raised a suspicion straight , that we had done amiss , We now are both unfortunate , who would have thought of this ? Our dear beloved Christian-turk , will break his Heart I fear , When as he finds the bloody Work , cannot be managed here ; The Trible-tree ( without dispute ) not one of us will miss , For we are routed horse and foot , who would have thought of this ? Here do we lie with Fetters bound , Friends , in a loathsome Goal , With Wall of Stone encompassed round , our sorrows to bewail : More of the Tribe comes daily in , there's few or none they'll miss ; When first the Plot we did begin , we little thought of this . If Lewis our religious Friend , would but entreat the Pope , That unto each of us he'd send a consecrated Rope , That we might Hempen Martyers die , when Sentence it is past , Sure such a thing he'll not deny his loving Sons at last . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie [ - counterfeit ] rner . THE Mournful Plotters : OR , THE Sorrowful Lamentation of several Conspi - rators within the Walls of Newgate ; being sadly of - flicted with a Fear they shall Die in a Heretic Hal - ter . To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell . WIthin these Prison Walls we lie , sweet loving Sons of Rome , Whose bloody Zeal for Popery , has pointed out our doom , Which is to go to Trussam - fair , the Fate we cannot miss , It's very sad I do declare , who would have thought of this ? We were indeed as fine a Knot , as ever yet was known , To carry on a Popish-plot , and undermined a Throne ; The French was ready at our call , yet we the Mark did miss , Our Devil has deceived us all , who would have thought of this ? Old Lewis waits to hear the news , what his dear Trouts have done ; But we alas , our Lives must lose , from hence we cannot run ; They'll search the Land and City round , ever one of us they'll miss , At length we shall be guilty found , who would have thought of this ? When first the Plot had taken wind , we scoured too and from , But could no place of safety find , wherever we did go ; Alength our Coachman did mistrust , that we had done amiss , And gave his Information first , who would have thought of this ? The Steelyard near the Waterside , we may remember well , For there we went ourselves to hide , as in a lonesome Cell ; They knew us not , we called for Wine , ever we the Glass could kiss , The Coach man came with eight or nine , who would have thobght of this ? Here we confess it was not late , when as we settled there , And yet they took us napping straight , as Moss he catched his Mare : My Brother looked like yea and nay , and I was much amiss , Alas ! alas ! what shall we say ? who would have thought of this ? The Coachman chanced to overhear . my loving Brother say , We shall be known , ever long I fear . if in the Town we stay ; This raised a suspicion straight , that we had done amiss , We now are both unfortunate , who would have thought of this ? Our dear beloved Christian-turk , will break his Heart I fear , When as he finds the bloody Work , cannot be managed here ; The Trible-tree ( without dispute ) not one of us will miss , For we are routed horse and foot , who would have thought of this ? Here do we lie with Fetters bound , Friends , in a loathsome Goal , With Wall of Stone encompassed round , our sorrows to bewail : More of the Tribe comes daily in , there's few or none they'll miss ; When first the Plot we did begin , we little thought of this . If Lewis our religious Friend , would but entreat the Pope , That unto each of us he'd send a consecrated Rope , That we might Hempen Martyers die , when Sentence it is past , Sure such a thing he'll not deny his loving Sons at last . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie [ - counterfeit ] rner . 