THE Infernal Post of Paris : OR , A Dialogue between Charnock is Ghost and King Lewis , in his Royal Bedchamber , concerning the Plot : Concluding with a horrid Fright upon Lewis , when Lucifer was about to take him at his word . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . ROuse Lucifer , let us prepare To mount the Regions of the Air , That unto Lewis [ I ] may go , And let him our Misfortunes know . I come , I come , quoth Lucifer , Your never-failing Servant , Sir , Mount on my back , Charnock , for I More swift then any Lark will fly . Over the Ocean Seas they flew , And when old Lewis they came too , They found him lying broad awake , And strait the Room began to shake . Lewis a dreadful noise he herd , At length a rugged Bear appeared With flaming Eyes and Hide coal black , And Charnock riding on his back . His Blood besprinkled all the Room , Their Breath brought forth a strong Perfume , Which did like burning Brimstone smell : Quoth Lewis , Are you come from Hell ? What is your Message , let me know ? Charnock replied , My Overthrow With many others you have wrought , Who are to sad Destruction brought . My Royal Heart you fill with fear , Stand back and don't approach so near , So sure as I am in this place , Before I never see your face . Then Charnock with a dreadful tone , Cried out , What will you quite disown Your well-beloved trusty Friend , Whom you did to Great Britain send , With Order to prepare the way , Saying , If we that Prince would slay , That you would large Rewards allow , Charnock is my Name , d'you know me now ? I must confess I know the name , But tell me who was most to blame , You that contrived to kill that King , Or I that yielded to the thing . Charnock with gnashing Teeth replied , You know I am well satisfied That you yourself contrived it first , We were but Persons put in trust . Lewis he frowning answered strait , Why do you charge me at this rate ? Though from the World the truth be hid , The Devil take me if I did . The Devil hearing what he said , Upon his Arm a Paw he laid , With which he did be-gripe him soar , And made him like a Lion roar . Sweet Mr. Devil , pardon me , I spoke but unadvisedly , What ever I said was but in jest , As here I solemny protest . Charnock replied , Let him alone , You know at last he'll be your own , And therefore let him longer stay ; Old Neck did Charnock is Voice obey . With that the Fiends did disappear , But Lewis lay and sweat with fear , Until at length his Gum [ a ] rds came in , To whom he told what he had seen . London : Printed for M. Pelcomb , at the sign of the Artechoke in Old-bedlam . THE Infernal Post of Paris : OR , A Dialogue between Charnock is Ghost and King Lewis , in his Royal Bedchamber , concerning the Plot : Concluding with a horrid Fright upon Lewis , when Lucifer was about to take him at his word . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . ROuse Lucifer , let us prepare To mount the Regions of the Air , That unto Lewis [ I ] may go , And let him our Misfortunes know . I come , I come , quoth Lucifer , Your never-failing Servant , Sir , Mount on my back , Charnock , for I More swift then any Lark will fly . Over the Ocean Seas they flew , And when old Lewis they came too , They found him lying broad awake , And strait the Room began to shake . Lewis a dreadful noise he herd , At length a rugged Bear appeared With flaming Eyes and Hide coal black , And Charnock riding on his back . His Blood besprinkled all the Room , Their Breath brought forth a strong Perfume , Which did like burning Brimstone smell : Quoth Lewis , Are you come from Hell ? What is your Message , let me know ? Charnock replied , My Overthrow With many others you have wrought , Who are to sad Destruction brought . My Royal Heart you fill with fear , Stand back and don't approach so near , So sure as I am in this place , Before I never see your face . Then Charnock with a dreadful tone , Cried out , What will you quite disown Your well-beloved trusty Friend , Whom you did to Great Britain send , With Order to prepare the way , Saying , If we that Prince would slay , That you would large Rewards allow , Charnock is my Name , d'you know me now ? I must confess I know the name , But tell me who was most to blame , You that contrived to kill that King , Or I that yielded to the thing . Charnock with gnashing Teeth replied , You know I am well satisfied That you yourself contrived it first , We were but Persons put in trust . Lewis he frowning answered strait , Why do you charge me at this rate ? Though from the World the truth be hid , The Devil take me if I did . The Devil hearing what he said , Upon his Arm a Paw he laid , With which he did be-gripe him soar , And made him like a Lion roar . Sweet Mr. Devil , pardon me , I spoke but unadvisedly , What ever I said was but in jest , As here I solemny protest . Charnock replied , Let him alone , You know at last he'll be your own , And therefore let him longer stay ; Old Neck did Charnock is Voice obey . With that the Fiends did disappear , But Lewis lay and sweat with fear , Until at length his Gum [ a ] rds came in , To whom he told what he had seen . London : Printed for M. Pelcomb , at the sign of the Artechoke in Old-bedlam . 