A New Song , called , The DUKE of GRAFTON'S Welcome Home into ENGLAND : Or , His Happy Return from his Foreign Travels . Tune of , Charon make haste , etc This may be printed , R.P. [ 1 ] ALl Loyal Subject's resolve to be merry , The Duke of Grafton's returned safe home , Who in the West made the Rebels miscarry , And brought them to their Just Fatal Doom ; Let's Ring our Bells' , our Drums let's beatrice , And every tipe of Mirth employ ; Nothing to welcome him can be too great , Let e'ry heart bless his return with Joy . [ 2 ] Happy's the Subject possessed of those F avours , Love of his Prince , and his Country too , Gained by his valiant and Noble behavours , B old in his Actions , and always true ; May all his Blessings here continue-him , And may his F ame the World Convince ; He has a Soul brave and Loyal within-him , Dare to do any thing for his Prince . [ 3 ] To gain Experience beyond Sea he Traveled , his Knowledge in foreign Courts to ' mprove , They at his Graceful Brave Presence all marveled , and thought him Born both for War and Love ; Every heart pursued his F avour , And in his Arms a Captive fell . Charmed by his Looks and his Noble B ehavour ; no Prince his Virtue could ever excel . [ 4 ] His Absence by all Good Subjects was mourned , He graetly was missed by the Noble Train , But now he back into Englands returned , To Bless his own Native Land again ; The Cry is pleasant to each Ear , The Loyal Duke of Grafton's come , And e'ry Heart full of Joy does appear , And Gladly does wish him a welcome home . [ 5 ] Come Loyal Subject's who scorn the base Trimmer , Charge up a merry cup to the Brim , Here's Loyal Graftons health boys in a Brimmer , Let all Love him as he Loves our KING , Long may he live and Happy be , And all the Worldly Bliss enjoy ; F rome all Misfortunes may Heaven keep him free , And every unhappy thought destroy . [ 6 ] When this great Man to the grave shall retire , May no Oblivion his Fame destroy ; Then may his Soul to Bright Heaven aspire ; And there be Crowned with immortal Joy ; He that refuses his same Glass , To drink the Health I have begun , Surely shall have three or four in his Face , He therefore had better to drink of one . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-Gate in West-Smithfield . A New Song , called , The DUKE of GRAFTON'S Welcome Home into ENGLAND : Or , His Happy Return from his Foreign Travels . Tune of , Charon make haste , etc This may be printed , R.P. [ 1 ] ALl Loyal Subject's resolve to be merry , The Duke of Grafton's returned safe home , Who in the West made the Rebels miscarry , And brought them to their Just Fatal Doom ; Let's Ring our Bells' , our Drums let's beatrice , And every tipe of Mirth employ ; Nothing to welcome him can be too great , Let e'ry heart bless his return with Joy . [ 2 ] Happy's the Subject possessed of those F avours , Love of his Prince , and his Country too , Gained by his valiant and Noble behavours , B old in his Actions , and always true ; May all his Blessings here continue-him , And may his F ame the World Convince ; He has a Soul brave and Loyal within-him , Dare to do any thing for his Prince . [ 3 ] To gain Experience beyond Sea he Traveled , his Knowledge in foreign Courts to ' mprove , They at his Graceful Brave Presence all marveled , and thought him Born both for War and Love ; Every heart pursued his F avour , And in his Arms a Captive fell . Charmed by his Looks and his Noble B ehavour ; no Prince his Virtue could ever excel . [ 4 ] His Absence by all Good Subjects was mourned , He graetly was missed by the Noble Train , But now he back into Englands returned , To Bless his own Native Land again ; The Cry is pleasant to each Ear , The Loyal Duke of Grafton's come , And e'ry Heart full of Joy does appear , And Gladly does wish him a welcome home . [ 5 ] Come Loyal Subject's who scorn the base Trimmer , Charge up a merry cup to the Brim , Here's Loyal Graftons health boys in a Brimmer , Let all Love him as he Loves our KING , Long may he live and Happy be , And all the Worldly Bliss enjoy ; F rome all Misfortunes may Heaven keep him free , And every unhappy thought destroy . [ 6 ] When this great Man to the grave shall retire , May no Oblivion his Fame destroy ; Then may his Soul to Bright Heaven aspire ; And there be Crowned with immortal Joy ; He that refuses his same Glass , To drink the Health I have begun , Surely shall have three or four in his Face , He therefore had better to drink of one . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-Gate in West-Smithfield . 