Monmouth Routed And Taken PRISONER With his Pimp the Lord Grey . A S ONG To the Tune of King Jame's Jig . I . FIve thousand Pound for James the Scot , That squeezed out the Garbish and Guts of the Plot , The Roaring Cannons did fright him away , Yet Lumley secured his Pimp the Lord Grey ; The Bishop of Winchester brought up the Guns , Cried fire brave Soldiers the Enemy Runs , Though its Dark you may see their Presbyter Bans A Foot Lower Cuts off , all the Rebels that stands , II Brave Feversham and Grafton did stand , And Eagle-eyed Oglethrop's worthy Command ; He spied the Rebels like Thieves draw near , At One in the Morning , ever Day did appear ; Yet all was in readiness , took the Alarms , The Word was given to Arms , to Arms : The Cannons sweet Music , the Soldiers charms . While Mars was Assistant ' against Rebels & amp ; harms III . Brave Albemarle lay fair for the Flight , And Beauford in Bristol secured the Kings Right : As soon as ever the Day did appear , Brave Pembrook fell foul o'th' Rout in the Rear , Then began the stress of the Fray , Grey turned Tails , with his Horns made away : God Curse me quoth Grey : if longer I stay , I never before saw so Bloody a Day . IV. Then Monmouth cried out , Oh Grey ; for my Life , Stand by me this Brunt , and never think of thy wife , Then Gray swore Dam , thou'st made me a Beast , My Breeches are foul , I'll Run home to be dressed ; The Kings Army , both Horse and Foot , Fought through the Rebels through Fire and Blood , And Cut down the Enemies , all that stood , Then Monmouth ran foremost , and thought it was good . V. This was the success of our fine Fop Things , That came for to Conquer the greatest of Kings , Whose Commanders and Soldiers soon r would die In the Field of Honour than ever to fly : We all their Standards there did gain , And all their Cannons add to our Train . While our Army does flourish upon the Plain . With Trophies of Honour and lasting Fame . VI . And now they are beating the Bushes to find , A King that left all his great Champions behind ; Who Robbed the Churches in three weeks Reign . And Ravished young Virgins within the same : Three Golden Bibles in his Flag , Three Hackney Whores and his running Nag , True Protestant Prince of which Presbyters brag Is catched under a Hedge in a lousy rag . VII . A fair Conclusion o'th' King in the West , His Knights of the Garter installed in haste ; Lord Keeper , and Secretary's of State , Made under a Hedge , at his Court without G ate ; The George and Star without Crack or [ P ] ledge , To Fools not deserving a Porters Badge , Like the King of the Gipsies , touched Mall and Madg , At his Majesties Court , given under a Hedge . FINIS . LON WORSER ON , Printed for James WORSER ean , Bookseller between the Royal Grove , and the Helmet in WORSER rury-Lane . Monmouth Routed And Taken PRISONER With his Pimp the Lord Grey . A S ONG To the Tune of King Jame's Jig . I . FIve thousand Pound for James the Scot , That squeezed out the Garbish and Guts of the Plot , The Roaring Cannons did fright him away , Yet Lumley secured his Pimp the Lord Grey ; The Bishop of Winchester brought up the Guns , Cried fire brave Soldiers the Enemy Runs , Though its Dark you may see their Presbyter Bans A Foot Lower Cuts off , all the Rebels that stands , II Brave Feversham and Grafton did stand , And Eagle-eyed Oglethrop's worthy Command ; He spied the Rebels like Thieves draw near , At One in the Morning , ever Day did appear ; Yet all was in readiness , took the Alarms , The Word was given to Arms , to Arms : The Cannons sweet Music , the Soldiers charms . While Mars was Assistant ' against Rebels & amp ; harms III . Brave Albemarle lay fair for the Flight , And Beauford in Bristol secured the Kings Right : As soon as ever the Day did appear , Brave Pembrook fell foul o'th' Rout in the Rear , Then began the stress of the Fray , Grey turned Tails , with his Horns made away : God Curse me quoth Grey : if longer I stay , I never before saw so Bloody a Day . IV. Then Monmouth cried out , Oh Grey ; for my Life , Stand by me this Brunt , and never think of thy wife , Then Gray swore Dam , thou'st made me a Beast , My Breeches are foul , I'll Run home to be dressed ; The Kings Army , both Horse and Foot , Fought through the Rebels through Fire and Blood , And Cut down the Enemies , all that stood , Then Monmouth ran foremost , and thought it was good . V. This was the success of our fine Fop Things , That came for to Conquer the greatest of Kings , Whose Commanders and Soldiers soon r would die In the Field of Honour than ever to fly : We all their Standards there did gain , And all their Cannons add to our Train . While our Army does flourish upon the Plain . With Trophies of Honour and lasting Fame . VI . And now they are beating the Bushes to find , A King that left all his great Champions behind ; Who Robbed the Churches in three weeks Reign . And Ravished young Virgins within the same : Three Golden Bibles in his Flag , Three Hackney Whores and his running Nag , True Protestant Prince of which Presbyters brag Is catched under a Hedge in a lousy rag . VII . A fair Conclusion o'th' King in the West , His Knights of the Garter installed in haste ; Lord Keeper , and Secretary's of State , Made under a Hedge , at his Court without G ate ; The George and Star without Crack or [ P ] ledge , To Fools not deserving a Porters Badge , Like the King of the Gipsies , touched Mall and Madg , At his Majesties Court , given under a Hedge . FINIS . LON WORSER ON , Printed for James WORSER ean , Bookseller between the Royal Grove , and the Helmet in WORSER rury-Lane . 