The Mournful Murderer : OR , The last Dying Lamentation of George Gadesby , who was Arraigned and found Guilty of that horrid Murder , committed on the Body of his Wife , for which he received due Sentence of Death , and was accordingly executed at Ty - bourn , on Friday , the 28th of May , 1697. Tune of , Russel's Farewell . THe dismal Day is come at last , on which I must receive A just Reward for what is passed ; good Lord , I sighs and grieve ; No Tongue is able to express , my mournful misery ; With melting Tears I do confess , it's just that I should Die . No Mortal sure alive can tell , what Grief I undergo , It was for want of living well , which proved my Overthrow ; And now , too late , I do repent , my dreadful Villainy , In melting Tears of Discontent , it's just that I should Die . Farewell the Glories of the World , they're almost at and end ; My Soul is in confusion hurled , knowing my Bosom-friend , Did undergo sad Grief of Heart , for this my Villainy ; No one alive can take my part , it's just that I should Die . Alas ! I shed the dearest Blood , of the poor Innocent , Which causes me to shed a flood of Tears , in Discontent , And yet , alas ! they're all in vain , dear Christians , now , for why , My very Conscience tells me plain , it's just that I should Die . She was a kind and virtuous Wife , I must acknowledge still , And though I took away her Life , 'twas far against my will ; Behold that most unhappy Thrust , obliges me to cry , Of all Mankind I am the worst , it's just that I should Die . This is a dreadful Day to me , my Glass is almost run , Alas ! I shall not live to see the setting of the Sun ; I tremble at the very thought of this sad Destiny , Which has my sad Destruction wrought , it's just that I should Die . In frightful Dreams methinks I hear , her bitter Groans and Cries , As if her Ghost did then appear , bleeding before mine Eyes , Saying , Dear George , now come away , the Laws to satisfy ; Therefore I may in sorrow say , it's just that I should Die . Tho's with Unchristian-cruelty , I did destroy my Wife , My Friends has daily flattered me , still with the hope of Life , That I should never suffer Death , but now it's drawing nigh , Yet I declare with my last Breath , it's just that I should die . The Cries of Conscience follows me , ever since I killed my Dear ; Oh! that I might a warning be , to all both far and near : My Parents do the best you can , yourselves to satisfy , Since by the Laws of God and Man , I do deserve to Die . This bitter Death I must embrace , and am compelled to go , From this vain World , unto a place of Joy , or endless Woe : Lord let this shameful Death of mine , thy Anger satisfy , Now here my Breath I must resign , it's just that I should Die . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for J. Shooter . The Mournful Murderer : OR , The last Dying Lamentation of George Gadesby , who was Arraigned and found Guilty of that horrid Murder , committed on the Body of his Wife , for which he received due Sentence of Death , and was accordingly executed at Ty - bourn , on Friday , the 28th of May , 1697. Tune of , Russel's Farewell . THe dismal Day is come at last , on which I must receive A just Reward for what is passed ; good Lord , I sighs and grieve ; No Tongue is able to express , my mournful misery ; With melting Tears I do confess , it's just that I should Die . No Mortal sure alive can tell , what Grief I undergo , It was for want of living well , which proved my Overthrow ; And now , too late , I do repent , my dreadful Villainy , In melting Tears of Discontent , it's just that I should Die . Farewell the Glories of the World , they're almost at and end ; My Soul is in confusion hurled , knowing my Bosom-friend , Did undergo sad Grief of Heart , for this my Villainy ; No one alive can take my part , it's just that I should Die . Alas ! I shed the dearest Blood , of the poor Innocent , Which causes me to shed a flood of Tears , in Discontent , And yet , alas ! they're all in vain , dear Christians , now , for why , My very Conscience tells me plain , it's just that I should Die . She was a kind and virtuous Wife , I must acknowledge still , And though I took away her Life , 'twas far against my will ; Behold that most unhappy Thrust , obliges me to cry , Of all Mankind I am the worst , it's just that I should Die . This is a dreadful Day to me , my Glass is almost run , Alas ! I shall not live to see the setting of the Sun ; I tremble at the very thought of this sad Destiny , Which has my sad Destruction wrought , it's just that I should Die . In frightful Dreams methinks I hear , her bitter Groans and Cries , As if her Ghost did then appear , bleeding before mine Eyes , Saying , Dear George , now come away , the Laws to satisfy ; Therefore I may in sorrow say , it's just that I should Die . Tho's with Unchristian-cruelty , I did destroy my Wife , My Friends has daily flattered me , still with the hope of Life , That I should never suffer Death , but now it's drawing nigh , Yet I declare with my last Breath , it's just that I should die . The Cries of Conscience follows me , ever since I killed my Dear ; Oh! that I might a warning be , to all both far and near : My Parents do the best you can , yourselves to satisfy , Since by the Laws of God and Man , I do deserve to Die . This bitter Death I must embrace , and am compelled to go , From this vain World , unto a place of Joy , or endless Woe : Lord let this shameful Death of mine , thy Anger satisfy , Now here my Breath I must resign , it's just that I should Die . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for J. Shooter . 