England's Happiness : OR , The Subject's Joy for a Protestant King and Queen : Being a SONG , Composed for the Diversion of all Loyal Subject's , in remembrance of the CORONATION of King William and Queen Marry , on the 11 th . of April , 1689. To the Tune of the Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . I . CAst off your Sorrow , disperse all your Fear , Vouchsafe with a Smile the blessed tidings to hear ; Let Mirth without measure for ever abound , Since William and Mary of England are Crowned . None must appear with Watery Eyes , Our Fortunate Planets begin to arise ; Then let each good Subject unfeignedly sing Long live Great William our Protestant King . II The Eleventh of April full Brimers went round , When William and Mary were Solemnly Crowned ; With loud Acclamations and Musical noise , All People were even transported with Joys ; No Face were with Sorrow that day to be seen , All drank to the Health of the King and the Queen . All Offerings of Joy that day they did bring , To welcome to the Throne our Protestant King . III . In the Morning their Majesties came from White-hall And straightway received the loud Huzza's of all ; Great Nobles and Peers , and Barons o'th Land , Attended their Majesties on e'ry hand ; The Street it was filled with and incredible Crowd , And as they passed , they all Cried out aloud , With Huzza's and Shouts and their Caps up did fling , Crying long Live great William our Protestant King . IV. At Westminster-Abby they were Royally Crowned , The Peers of the Nation encompassed them round ; Each Man was transported with Joy to behold Their Temples adorned with Crowns of Gold ; The Windows were filled , the Balconies were Lined With good Loyal Subject's of every kind ; The Bonfires Blazed , and the Bells' they did Ring , To welcome to the Crown our Protestant King . V. The Drums and the Trumpets and Music did play , All People rejoiced and blessed the day Such a Coronation there never was seen , Since England was Blessed with a King and a Queen . Joy to Excess was all over the Town , For the fit placing the Sceptre and Crown , And all Peoples Tongues was disposed to sing , Long Live Great William our Protestant King . VI . Then let us be Loyal and true to his Cause , Let's Fight against those that would take off our Laws ; Let us join with great William to pull down the Pope , And send his mad Zealots to Hell in a Rope . Let William live long and Conquer his Foes ; Be to us a Father , and a Terror to those That seek our Nation to Ruin to bring , And that hate our Protestent Kingdom and King . VII . No time shall blot out his Glorious Name ; No changes of Fortune shall stifle his Fame ; No Crosses nor Losses shall make us forsake Him , who came over our Fetters to break : He ventured his Life to set us all free From Romes Black Designs of Tyranny : A Protestant Army did with him bring ; These are the blessed Works of our Protestant King . VIII . Let Papists Lament and vex at their Fates , Thank Heaven and William , we fear not their Hates ; We have god them under , Oh let's keep them down , We scorn the Old Pope and Laugh at his Frown ; His Bulls have done Roaring , the Drivers are hampered , Some are in Newgate , the rest are all Scampered : Their Pardons and Projects not Comfort will bring , They fear to come near a good Protestant King . IX . Let William and Mary live happy together , And Heavens choice Blessings attend them for ever ; Long may they in Peace rule the Sceptre and Crown , To pull the great Pride of Pope Anti christ down ; And let it to Heaven be always our Prayer , That Marry a Son to Great William may bear , To Rule this Nation , and in every thing To imitate William our Protestant King . X. Come here's a full Brimer , brave Boys , let it pass , For shame do not Boggle to drink a full Glass ; And let us be Merry and cast away Sorrow , Let's drink it to day , lest we han't it to Morrow ; Come fill a full Gallon and make it run over , And fill it , and fill it , ten thousand times more . Let Liquour run freely as out of a Spring , To the Health and long Life of our Protestant King LONDON , Printed by G. Croom , at the Blue Ball in Thames-street near Baynard is , 1689 . England's Happiness : OR , The Subject's Joy for a Protestant King and Queen : Being a SONG , Composed for the Diversion of all Loyal Subject's , in remembrance of the CORONATION of King William and Queen Marry , on the 11 th . of April , 1689. To the Tune of the Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . I . CAst off your Sorrow , disperse all your Fear , Vouchsafe with a Smile the blessed tidings to hear ; Let Mirth without measure for ever abound , Since William and Mary of England are Crowned . None must appear with Watery Eyes , Our Fortunate Planets begin to arise ; Then let each good Subject unfeignedly sing Long live Great William our Protestant King . II The Eleventh of April full Brimers went round , When William and Mary were Solemnly Crowned ; With loud Acclamations and Musical noise , All People were even transported with Joys ; No Face were with Sorrow that day to be seen , All drank to the Health of the King and the Queen . All Offerings of Joy that day they did bring , To welcome to the Throne our Protestant King . III . In the Morning their Majesties came from White-hall And straightway received the loud Huzza's of all ; Great Nobles and Peers , and Barons o'th Land , Attended their Majesties on e'ry hand ; The Street it was filled with and incredible Crowd , And as they passed , they all Cried out aloud , With Huzza's and Shouts and their Caps up did fling , Crying long Live great William our Protestant King . IV. At Westminster-Abby they were Royally Crowned , The Peers of the Nation encompassed them round ; Each Man was transported with Joy to behold Their Temples adorned with Crowns of Gold ; The Windows were filled , the Balconies were Lined With good Loyal Subject's of every kind ; The Bonfires Blazed , and the Bells' they did Ring , To welcome to the Crown our Protestant King . V. The Drums and the Trumpets and Music did play , All People rejoiced and blessed the day Such a Coronation there never was seen , Since England was Blessed with a King and a Queen . Joy to Excess was all over the Town , For the fit placing the Sceptre and Crown , And all Peoples Tongues was disposed to sing , Long Live Great William our Protestant King . VI . Then let us be Loyal and true to his Cause , Let's Fight against those that would take off our Laws ; Let us join with great William to pull down the Pope , And send his mad Zealots to Hell in a Rope . Let William live long and Conquer his Foes ; Be to us a Father , and a Terror to those That seek our Nation to Ruin to bring , And that hate our Protestent Kingdom and King . VII . No time shall blot out his Glorious Name ; No changes of Fortune shall stifle his Fame ; No Crosses nor Losses shall make us forsake Him , who came over our Fetters to break : He ventured his Life to set us all free From Romes Black Designs of Tyranny : A Protestant Army did with him bring ; These are the blessed Works of our Protestant King . VIII . Let Papists Lament and vex at their Fates , Thank Heaven and William , we fear not their Hates ; We have god them under , Oh let's keep them down , We scorn the Old Pope and Laugh at his Frown ; His Bulls have done Roaring , the Drivers are hampered , Some are in Newgate , the rest are all Scampered : Their Pardons and Projects not Comfort will bring , They fear to come near a good Protestant King . IX . Let William and Mary live happy together , And Heavens choice Blessings attend them for ever ; Long may they in Peace rule the Sceptre and Crown , To pull the great Pride of Pope Anti christ down ; And let it to Heaven be always our Prayer , That Marry a Son to Great William may bear , To Rule this Nation , and in every thing To imitate William our Protestant King . X. Come here's a full Brimer , brave Boys , let it pass , For shame do not Boggle to drink a full Glass ; And let us be Merry and cast away Sorrow , Let's drink it to day , lest we han't it to Morrow ; Come fill a full Gallon and make it run over , And fill it , and fill it , ten thousand times more . Let Liquour run freely as out of a Spring , To the Health and long Life of our Protestant King LONDON , Printed by G. Croom , at the Blue Ball in Thames-street near Baynard is , 1689 . 