ENGLAND's Joy in the merry month of MAY ; OR , The Various delights of the Spring . Tune of , Ah! how pleasant it's to Love , etc Licenced and Entered according to Order ( 1 ) HArk ! how sweet the Birds do sing Usher in the Pleasant Spring : now King and Queen are Crowned , Winter storms are blown a way , Now we are with cheerful May ; most pleasantly sourrounded . ( 2 ) If we walk into the Fields , Every Flower a pleasure yields ; and so we are delighted , With the Vestal Flora's Train : That we see upon the Plain , in order so posited , ( 3 ) How Harmonious are the Notes , Warbled from the pretty Throats ; of the enchanting Forristers : Unconstrained they rejoice , Sing like Birds of Paradise , Aping those sweet Choristers . ( 4 ) Let us but return again , We shall see the martial Train : dancing to the Fife and Drum , Music such as will invite ; Ladies to a sweet delight , and terrify the Bulls of Rome . ( 5 ) Modest Virgins , Dance and Sing , To the sprightly Violin : wellc'ming in the pleasant Spring , Sparks , and Bullies of the Town ; All their Wits in liquour drown , drinking Healths unto the King . ( 6 ) Grave and wise together meet , Bowing at the Royal feet ; of our G racious King , and Queen , Wish'em health , long life and peace : That their Joys may still increase , in a long and happy Reign . ( 7 ) Now fair Venus , and her Train , Followed by the Amorous Swain ; Take their pleasure in the Groves , TO wist Embraces , and Carress , To the height of happiness ; as their Inclination moves . ( 8 ) Poets Muses , all the Nine , And their Offspring so divine ; chant it out melodiously : And ( like Eastern Natives ) down , F all before the Rising Sun , that now shines so Gloriously . ( 9 ) Mists and Vapours of the night , That disturbed our clear Eyesight ; are dispelled , and Vanished ; A ll things now too gay appear , In this spring time of the Year ; as if they never Languished . ( 10 ) We admire the sceen and cry , It is all Variety : charming the beholders Eye , Still producing something new : Pleasures that we never knew in a spring of Liberty . Printed for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-Baily . ENGLAND's Joy in the merry month of MAY ; OR , The Various delights of the Spring . Tune of , Ah! how pleasant it's to Love , etc Licenced and Entered according to Order ( 1 ) HArk ! how sweet the Birds do sing Usher in the Pleasant Spring : now King and Queen are Crowned , Winter storms are blown a way , Now we are with cheerful May ; most pleasantly sourrounded . ( 2 ) If we walk into the Fields , Every Flower a pleasure yields ; and so we are delighted , With the Vestal Flora's Train : That we see upon the Plain , in order so posited , ( 3 ) How Harmonious are the Notes , Warbled from the pretty Throats ; of the enchanting Forristers : Unconstrained they rejoice , Sing like Birds of Paradise , Aping those sweet Choristers . ( 4 ) Let us but return again , We shall see the martial Train : dancing to the Fife and Drum , Music such as will invite ; Ladies to a sweet delight , and terrify the Bulls of Rome . ( 5 ) Modest Virgins , Dance and Sing , To the sprightly Violin : wellc'ming in the pleasant Spring , Sparks , and Bullies of the Town ; All their Wits in liquour drown , drinking Healths unto the King . ( 6 ) Grave and wise together meet , Bowing at the Royal feet ; of our G racious King , and Queen , Wish'em health , long life and peace : That their Joys may still increase , in a long and happy Reign . ( 7 ) Now fair Venus , and her Train , Followed by the Amorous Swain ; Take their pleasure in the Groves , TO wist Embraces , and Carress , To the height of happiness ; as their Inclination moves . ( 8 ) Poets Muses , all the Nine , And their Offspring so divine ; chant it out melodiously : And ( like Eastern Natives ) down , F all before the Rising Sun , that now shines so Gloriously . ( 9 ) Mists and Vapours of the night , That disturbed our clear Eyesight ; are dispelled , and Vanished ; A ll things now too gay appear , In this spring time of the Year ; as if they never Languished . ( 10 ) We admire the sceen and cry , It is all Variety : charming the beholders Eye , Still producing something new : Pleasures that we never knew in a spring of Liberty . Printed for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-Baily . 