THE ROYAL PROGRESS : OR , King William is Princely Welcome and Stately Entertain - meant in the Country , by the Nobility and Gentry : together with the unspeakable Joy of His meaner Subject's for His Princely Presence . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Licensed according to Order . KIng William returning from Flanders , with triumph and joy to the Land , Next way he did please , for pleasure and ease , a Progress to take out of hand , That Subject's of e'ry degree , they might have the honour to see Their King , who had ventured , and Battles had entered to conquer the proud Enemy : Wherever he came they received him with Joy , The Subject's still crying out Vive le Roy . He came to the Town of Newmarket , where Monarchs have formerly been ; The greatest of Men , with loyalty then , came forth for to usher him in ; No manner of frowns did appear , but joy from the front to the rear , Was seen in their Faces , repeating his Graces , right valiant and void of all fear : Thus did they receive him with Triumph and Joy , Their loud Acclamations were Vive le Roy . Althrop he was pleased to honour , a Town in Northamptonshire , where The Nobles of fame in multitudes came , and Commons in crouds did repair , That they might their Monarch behold , of whom they had often been told ; When coming before him , they seemed to adore him , their Champion courageous and bold : Then nothing was herd but loud Echoes of Joy , Sent forth by Expressions of Vive le Roy . He dined with the Earl of Northampton , at Castle-ashby in his way , The Earl Mountague , both loyal and true , did treat him the very next day At Boughton , where mirth did abound , full bowls of Canary went round , So great was the Blessing which they was posessing , no shadow of Grief could be found : Wherever he came there was nothing Joy , With loud Acclamations of Vive le Roy . The Duke of Newcastle he met him , full seven long Miles of Town ; Now this being done , the Earl of Kingston with other brave Lords of Renown , Rich Banquets did daily prepare ; thus he like a Monarch did fair Among his league People , while every Steeple with ringing of Bells' did declare , How they were transported with Raptures of Joy , The Multitude crying out Vive le Roy . The City of York did receive him , in all their Formalities gay ; When entering there , that noble Lord-Mayor King William he Knighted that day : Thus did he his Favours bestow , where ever he was pleased to go , The Bowls of Canary to make their hearts merry , like plentiful Fountains did flow ; The City resounding with Echoes of Joy , And loud Acclamations of Vive le Roy . Brave Warwick was no ways behind them , for at the approach of our King The Bonfires blaised , and Bells' they were raised , o ! how they did merrily ring . They brought out the Pot of Sir Guy , which many long Years had lain dry ; Three Pipes did but fill it , they vowed they not spill it , their Cheeks they resolved to die Like Scarlet in Grain , for this general Joy ; Their loud Acclamations was Vive Le Roy . Nay , Burford , and all other places , wherever his Majesty came , Prayed for his Success , they could do no less , but needs must his glory proclaim : He homeward at length did repair , to meet with his Parliament there ; May Heavens defend him , and Blessings attend him , so shall the dark clouds of our care , Be changed to a pleasant bright sunshine of Joy , And all the whole Kingdom cry Vive le Roy . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . THE ROYAL PROGRESS : OR , King William is Princely Welcome and Stately Entertain - meant in the Country , by the Nobility and Gentry : together with the unspeakable Joy of His meaner Subject's for His Princely Presence . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Licensed according to Order . KIng William returning from Flanders , with triumph and joy to the Land , Next way he did please , for pleasure and ease , a Progress to take out of hand , That Subject's of e'ry degree , they might have the honour to see Their King , who had ventured , and Battles had entered to conquer the proud Enemy : Wherever he came they received him with Joy , The Subject's still crying out Vive le Roy . He came to the Town of Newmarket , where Monarchs have formerly been ; The greatest of Men , with loyalty then , came forth for to usher him in ; No manner of frowns did appear , but joy from the front to the rear , Was seen in their Faces , repeating his Graces , right valiant and void of all fear : Thus did they receive him with Triumph and Joy , Their loud Acclamations were Vive le Roy . Althrop he was pleased to honour , a Town in Northamptonshire , where The Nobles of fame in multitudes came , and Commons in crouds did repair , That they might their Monarch behold , of whom they had often been told ; When coming before him , they seemed to adore him , their Champion courageous and bold : Then nothing was herd but loud Echoes of Joy , Sent forth by Expressions of Vive le Roy . He dined with the Earl of Northampton , at Castle-ashby in his way , The Earl Mountague , both loyal and true , did treat him the very next day At Boughton , where mirth did abound , full bowls of Canary went round , So great was the Blessing which they was posessing , no shadow of Grief could be found : Wherever he came there was nothing Joy , With loud Acclamations of Vive le Roy . The Duke of Newcastle he met him , full seven long Miles of Town ; Now this being done , the Earl of Kingston with other brave Lords of Renown , Rich Banquets did daily prepare ; thus he like a Monarch did fair Among his league People , while every Steeple with ringing of Bells' did declare , How they were transported with Raptures of Joy , The Multitude crying out Vive le Roy . The City of York did receive him , in all their Formalities gay ; When entering there , that noble Lord-Mayor King William he Knighted that day : Thus did he his Favours bestow , where ever he was pleased to go , The Bowls of Canary to make their hearts merry , like plentiful Fountains did flow ; The City resounding with Echoes of Joy , And loud Acclamations of Vive le Roy . Brave Warwick was no ways behind them , for at the approach of our King The Bonfires blaised , and Bells' they were raised , o ! how they did merrily ring . They brought out the Pot of Sir Guy , which many long Years had lain dry ; Three Pipes did but fill it , they vowed they not spill it , their Cheeks they resolved to die Like Scarlet in Grain , for this general Joy ; Their loud Acclamations was Vive Le Roy . Nay , Burford , and all other places , wherever his Majesty came , Prayed for his Success , they could do no less , but needs must his glory proclaim : He homeward at length did repair , to meet with his Parliament there ; May Heavens defend him , and Blessings attend him , so shall the dark clouds of our care , Be changed to a pleasant bright sunshine of Joy , And all the whole Kingdom cry Vive le Roy . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 