A Letter from Feversham , Giving a True ACCOUNT Of several Persons who were Taken , being Embarked with His MAJESTIE In a Vessel which lay in a Creek near Feversham in Kent . Dated the 12 th . of December , 1688. HIS Majesty having of l0ate , ( to the great dissatisfaction of the whole Kingdom ) thought it convenient at this juncture , to withdraw Himself from White Hall , in or [ - ] der ( as it was supposed ) to Transport Himself for some time beyond Sea , being Attended with several Gentlemen , of whom we shall proceed to give you and Exact Account . His MAJESTY , ( in order to prosecute His Intention ) on the Eleventh of December Embarked Himself in a small Vessel , which lay in a Creek near Feversham , with these following persons to At - tend Him , Sir Edward Hales , Mr. Shelton , and some other Gentlemen , whose Names , as yet , we have no certain information off : But being on Board lying for a fair Wind , to Convey them to the Place intended , were discovered , and the above Named Gentle - men , who waited on His MAJESTY , were Seized by a Party , in behalf of the Prince of Orange ; upon which His MAJESTY thought it Convenient to omit His Passage , and countermand His Resolution to return to Town . We have likewise and Account that Baron Jenner , Graham , and others , were likewise taken at Feversham . The Earl of Salisbury , and Mr. Hales at Ashford . Also old Obediah Walker and other Jesuits at Sittingborn , who are now under the County Guards , in Order to the bringing of them with all convenient Speed to London . Printed for I.H. 1688 . A Letter from Feversham , Giving a True ACCOUNT Of several Persons who were Taken , being Embarked with His MAJESTIE In a Vessel which lay in a Creek near Feversham in Kent . Dated the 12 th . of December , 1688. HIS Majesty having of l0ate , ( to the great dissatisfaction of the whole Kingdom ) thought it convenient at this juncture , to withdraw Himself from White Hall , in or [ - ] der ( as it was supposed ) to Transport Himself for some time beyond Sea , being Attended with several Gentlemen , of whom we shall proceed to give you and Exact Account . His MAJESTY , ( in order to prosecute His Intention ) on the Eleventh of December Embarked Himself in a small Vessel , which lay in a Creek near Feversham , with these following persons to At - tend Him , Sir Edward Hales , Mr. Shelton , and some other Gentlemen , whose Names , as yet , we have no certain information off : But being on Board lying for a fair Wind , to Convey them to the Place intended , were discovered , and the above Named Gentle - men , who waited on His MAJESTY , were Seized by a Party , in behalf of the Prince of Orange ; upon which His MAJESTY thought it Convenient to omit His Passage , and countermand His Resolution to return to Town . We have likewise and Account that Baron Jenner , Graham , and others , were likewise taken at Feversham . The Earl of Salisbury , and Mr. Hales at Ashford . Also old Obediah Walker and other Jesuits at Sittingborn , who are now under the County Guards , in Order to the bringing of them with all convenient Speed to London . Printed for I.H. 1688 . 