AND ANSWER TO THE PACKET of ADVICE . To the Tune of , Packintons-Pound . I . YOur scandalous Lies I with patience have read ; And condemn every Article that you have said : Must the French K - your Subject for Satyr be made , And great J --- in Jack-Adam is Coat be arrayed . If his Q ---- goes to Rut , Is She therefore a Slut ; Poor Women oft times to great Hardships are put . And if Lewis did send the good K ---- on one side , Yet you're Saucy to guess what he did with his Bride . II To his most Loyal Subject's , and best of his Lands , Now England and Scotland have shook off his Bans : To the first Royal Seat of his unquestioned Line ; Which makes him so much to the Irish incline : To that long promised Place , Unto him and his Raze ; Where he represents Lewis is Majesty's Grace . He is safely retired , and there gloriously Rules , By a lineal Descent from the House of La-F ---- s . III . His Clemency , Conduct , and Pity was shown , When with Patience so long he did wait for a Crown : The Mirror of Subject's and Brother's he lived ; Remember how much for that Monarch he grieved : How unwilling to Reign , How he wished him again ; Though I own all the while , he was sure 'twas in vain . To which let me add his Indulgence ith' West , And the Devil is in the Dice if all that was in Jest . IV. The Trials and Turmoils that good Man endured , Which by Churchmen and Statesmen was daily procured . What Strivings had he to bring Business about , By putting in Papists and Protestants out . With what Vigor he tried , To bring all to his Side , Till that damnable closeting Trick was descried . And if Parliament had but done as commanded , The French-men instead of the Dutch should have landed . V. His Delight from the Cradle was ever in Arms , As his Consorts has been in dissusing her Charms : What a Bustle was here with the Nuntio ere while , Because she upon him would constantly smile : Suppose she did more , You held not the Door , It's but Justice sometime to pay off and old Score : For I knowed by Experience , when Husbands do fail , That a slender Temptation will easily prevail . VI . It's plain against his Highness of W ---- s is your Spite , But pray mark the End , and see what you'll get byed . There are Rods laid in Piss for the best of you all , When the plaguy young Urchin comes back to W -- Hall He's a Limb of his Dam , Though you call it a Sham ; The Church cannot Err , nor believe in a Flame : Was not all the Contrivance oned printed at large , By his M ----- s Order , and at his own Charge . VII . But beware your Lampooning , your Satyr and Scandal , There are those in the World will you plaguily handle , When'e one K. shall hear what a monster yo've made him , And the other shall know what it is has betrayed him . When the Q ---- shall behold , All her Virtues Retold ; I cannot but laugh , to think how she will scold . At the best she's a Fury , but when in a Passion , Uds Nouns , she's enough to confound a whole Nation . Printed in the Year 1689 . AND ANSWER TO THE PACKET of ADVICE . To the Tune of , Packintons-Pound . I . YOur scandalous Lies I with patience have read ; And condemn every Article that you have said : Must the French K - your Subject for Satyr be made , And great J --- in Jack-Adam is Coat be arrayed . If his Q ---- goes to Rut , Is She therefore a Slut ; Poor Women oft times to great Hardships are put . And if Lewis did send the good K ---- on one side , Yet you're Saucy to guess what he did with his Bride . II To his most Loyal Subject's , and best of his Lands , Now England and Scotland have shook off his Bans : To the first Royal Seat of his unquestioned Line ; Which makes him so much to the Irish incline : To that long promised Place , Unto him and his Raze ; Where he represents Lewis is Majesty's Grace . He is safely retired , and there gloriously Rules , By a lineal Descent from the House of La-F ---- s . III . His Clemency , Conduct , and Pity was shown , When with Patience so long he did wait for a Crown : The Mirror of Subject's and Brother's he lived ; Remember how much for that Monarch he grieved : How unwilling to Reign , How he wished him again ; Though I own all the while , he was sure 'twas in vain . To which let me add his Indulgence ith' West , And the Devil is in the Dice if all that was in Jest . IV. The Trials and Turmoils that good Man endured , Which by Churchmen and Statesmen was daily procured . What Strivings had he to bring Business about , By putting in Papists and Protestants out . With what Vigor he tried , To bring all to his Side , Till that damnable closeting Trick was descried . And if Parliament had but done as commanded , The French-men instead of the Dutch should have landed . V. His Delight from the Cradle was ever in Arms , As his Consorts has been in dissusing her Charms : What a Bustle was here with the Nuntio ere while , Because she upon him would constantly smile : Suppose she did more , You held not the Door , It's but Justice sometime to pay off and old Score : For I knowed by Experience , when Husbands do fail , That a slender Temptation will easily prevail . VI . It's plain against his Highness of W ---- s is your Spite , But pray mark the End , and see what you'll get byed . There are Rods laid in Piss for the best of you all , When the plaguy young Urchin comes back to W -- Hall He's a Limb of his Dam , Though you call it a Sham ; The Church cannot Err , nor believe in a Flame : Was not all the Contrivance oned printed at large , By his M ----- s Order , and at his own Charge . VII . But beware your Lampooning , your Satyr and Scandal , There are those in the World will you plaguily handle , When'e one K. shall hear what a monster yo've made him , And the other shall know what it is has betrayed him . When the Q ---- shall behold , All her Virtues Retold ; I cannot but laugh , to think how she will scold . At the best she's a Fury , but when in a Passion , Uds Nouns , she's enough to confound a whole Nation . Printed in the Year 1689 . 