THE Protestants Triumph IN Retaking KILMORE AND Raising the Siege at LONDONDERRY . Together with the Fortunate surprising of Dunhaladay to the Relief of 300 Pr [ oh - ] testant Prisoners . Tune of , King William he is now come over , etc 1. It's all confirmed the News is true And the poor Papists all look blew : Their boasted Triumph ends in Noise , F or now the Irish Army Flies . 2. Before the Valiant English-Men , Whom they can now no longer penn ; Within a mighty walled Town , Teague once thought to make his own , 3. Great Albany again may S wim , This fatal S eige has ruined him ; For Berwick , Sheldon , Ramsey S lain , Who'le dare to head Dear-Joys again . 4. Teague was before a silly Rogue , Poor and despised was the Dog : But this Make-Kill so much in Vogue , Has drowned him in a Kilmore-Bogg . 5. Kilmore they had but lately god , With Golden Balls their Canonshot , Before the Derry-Boys came down , And put to Flight the Garrison . 6. Brave Walker whose immortal Fame , Above his Fellows bears his Name ; Whose Glorious deeds have raised him high , In War and in Divinity . 7. Murray , Kirk , and all the rest , Whose Victorious Arms are blessed ; Do now in happy Triumph Sing , Praises to Heaven and our King . 8. The mighty numbers that are slave , Have weakened so their great Campain ; The Siege is raised and gone with speed , To tell St. Patricks how they bleed ? 9. Where we now leave'em to condole , Each one his Brother Teagues poor Shoul ; And so return to sing the Fate , Of Protestants more Fortunate . 10. And hundred Gentlemen that sailed , In two great Ships that never failed : Unto the famed Dunhalady , Upon the Irish Colony . 11. Wherein two Irish Companies , Were set to turn the prison Keys ; Where lay 300 Protestants , Beset with Miseries and Wants . 12. Our Horo's landing quickly freed , The Captives and supplied their needs : Equally sharing the Rich prize , Of Booty which they did surprise . 13. This great adventure to complete , The sparks before they did retreat ; ( Since all is Fish comes to the Hook ) One Hundred popish prisoners took . 14. Thus men who Thirst for true renown , Enrich themselves to serve the Crown , Nor is there any exploit dants True English-men and Protestants . LONDON , Printed for A . Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-BailyTHE Protestants Triumph IN Retaking KILMORE AND Raising the Siege at LONDONDERRY . Together with the Fortunate surprising of Dunhaladay to the Relief of 300 Pr [ oh - ] testant Prisoners . Tune of , King William he is now come over , etc 1. It's all confirmed the News is true And the poor Papists all look blew : Their boasted Triumph ends in Noise , F or now the Irish Army Flies . 2. Before the Valiant English-Men , Whom they can now no longer penn ; Within a mighty walled Town , Teague once thought to make his own , 3. Great Albany again may S wim , This fatal S eige has ruined him ; For Berwick , Sheldon , Ramsey S lain , Who'le dare to head Dear-Joys again . 4. Teague was before a silly Rogue , Poor and despised was the Dog : But this Make-Kill so much in Vogue , Has drowned him in a Kilmore-Bogg . 5. Kilmore they had but lately god , With Golden Balls their Canonshot , Before the Derry-Boys came down , And put to Flight the Garrison . 6. Brave Walker whose immortal Fame , Above his Fellows bears his Name ; Whose Glorious deeds have raised him high , In War and in Divinity . 7. Murray , Kirk , and all the rest , Whose Victorious Arms are blessed ; Do now in happy Triumph Sing , Praises to Heaven and our King . 8. The mighty numbers that are slave , Have weakened so their great Campain ; The Siege is raised and gone with speed , To tell St. Patricks how they bleed ? 9. Where we now leave'em to condole , Each one his Brother Teagues poor Shoul ; And so return to sing the Fate , Of Protestants more Fortunate . 10. And hundred Gentlemen that sailed , In two great Ships that never failed : Unto the famed Dunhalady , Upon the Irish Colony . 11. Wherein two Irish Companies , Were set to turn the prison Keys ; Where lay 300 Protestants , Beset with Miseries and Wants . 12. Our Horo's landing quickly freed , The Captives and supplied their needs : Equally sharing the Rich prize , Of Booty which they did surprise . 13. This great adventure to complete , The sparks before they did retreat ; ( Since all is Fish comes to the Hook ) One Hundred popish prisoners took . 14. Thus men who Thirst for true renown , Enrich themselves to serve the Crown , Nor is there any exploit dants True English-men and Protestants . LONDON , Printed for A . Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily 