A New Copy of Verses OF General Schomberg's Happy SUCCESS , since His LANDING IN IRELAND . To the Tune of , Now the Fight is Over . With Allowance . I . NOw Duke Schomberg he is Landed , With his Forces strong and stout ; With Gods Assistance , makes no question But that his Enemies he shall Rout , And make them all Repent full soar , That they from France then thither came ; For with his Valour he'll gain Honour , When with James he plays his Game . II His Grace , of James is not Daunted , Though of late he was a King , But bravely towards him he Advanced , A Battle Bloody to begin ; The Irish they begin to falter , And the French they will not stand ; so this Country will be Reduced , And himself the chief Command . III . Alas poor James what will betide thee , Whither will , or can you fly , IT wont be long but thee'l be Taken , Unto France you cannot high , Because the Country is Surrounded , That no way you can get out ; Thy Polisy has thee Confounded , It's high time to look about . IV. When you in England , James , was Seated On thy Throne , and was a King , With Jesuits you then Consulted , Sorrow on these Lands to bring ; But by your Plotting , and Contriving , You have lost now Nations Three ; And by your False and Wicked Living , How you Prosper now you see . V. If that you were but True and Honest , Then your Country would you have Loved And never would have suffered you , From your Throne , for to have moved , But with their States and Lives a ventured , To maintain thee on thy Throne ; If that you had but then Consented , The Popish Function to pull down . VI . Thy Popish Function , here is stinking , And in thy Norstrels they does smell ; But Father Petres he has led thee , in a way that goes to Hell : It is high time for to Repent thee , Of that Base and Wicked since , That you with Jesuits Contrived , When of late you was a King . VII . Poor Ireland , by you have suffered , And is under now great woe ; With Sword and Fire you destroyed , Every place were you did go ; In time we hope you'll be prevented , In the Sport you took Delight , Now Schomberg and his Men are Landed , You and your Army they do Fright . VIII . They are all Stout , and Courageous , And willing are now all to Die , Before they'll yield , or likewise Surrender , Unto the Pope their Enemy : They'll Cleave the Sculls and Hearts of many , Before that they will lose the day ; They'll make their Foes down on their Knees , And for their Lives unto them pray . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by J. Wilkins in White-Fryars , 1689 . A New Copy of Verses OF General Schomberg's Happy SUCCESS , since His LANDING IN IRELAND . To the Tune of , Now the Fight is Over . With Allowance . I . NOw Duke Schomberg he is Landed , With his Forces strong and stout ; With Gods Assistance , makes no question But that his Enemies he shall Rout , And make them all Repent full soar , That they from France then thither came ; For with his Valour he'll gain Honour , When with James he plays his Game . II His Grace , of James is not Daunted , Though of late he was a King , But bravely towards him he Advanced , A Battle Bloody to begin ; The Irish they begin to falter , And the French they will not stand ; so this Country will be Reduced , And himself the chief Command . III . Alas poor James what will betide thee , Whither will , or can you fly , IT wont be long but thee'l be Taken , Unto France you cannot high , Because the Country is Surrounded , That no way you can get out ; Thy Polisy has thee Confounded , It's high time to look about . IV. When you in England , James , was Seated On thy Throne , and was a King , With Jesuits you then Consulted , Sorrow on these Lands to bring ; But by your Plotting , and Contriving , You have lost now Nations Three ; And by your False and Wicked Living , How you Prosper now you see . V. If that you were but True and Honest , Then your Country would you have Loved And never would have suffered you , From your Throne , for to have moved , But with their States and Lives a ventured , To maintain thee on thy Throne ; If that you had but then Consented , The Popish Function to pull down . VI . Thy Popish Function , here is stinking , And in thy Norstrels they does smell ; But Father Petres he has led thee , in a way that goes to Hell : It is high time for to Repent thee , Of that Base and Wicked since , That you with Jesuits Contrived , When of late you was a King . VII . Poor Ireland , by you have suffered , And is under now great woe ; With Sword and Fire you destroyed , Every place were you did go ; In time we hope you'll be prevented , In the Sport you took Delight , Now Schomberg and his Men are Landed , You and your Army they do Fright . VIII . They are all Stout , and Courageous , And willing are now all to Die , Before they'll yield , or likewise Surrender , Unto the Pope their Enemy : They'll Cleave the Sculls and Hearts of many , Before that they will lose the day ; They'll make their Foes down on their Knees , And for their Lives unto them pray . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by J. Wilkins in White-Fryars , 1689 . 