The Bogg-Trotters March Or , King Williams Glorious Conquest over the whole Irish Army . To and Excellent New Tune , Or , March Boys , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . I. OLd James with his Rascally Rabble of Rogues , he drew up his Army pretending to stand ; But as they marched they must trust to their Brogues , the Dee'l take the hindmost was his Command : He had a Ditty he mumbled along , it went in the Tune of Lilli borlero ; But we will follow them close with a Song of March , Boys , march , Boys , Tan ta ra ra ro : March Boys , march Boys , merry , merry march , Boys , Teague ' s but a Mushroom to a Man , Boys , See how they fly , how they run , how they die , whilst Conquering William leads us on , Boys . II Thus Teague with his Loyalty , Mettle , and Pride , Resolves to maintain his Natural Prince ; Who the Plague blames him so nearly Allied , in Truth , Religion , Wit , and Sense ; He quits his Crowns , they Surrender his Towns , if he plays the Fool , they all do the same , Sir ; Loose or win , or get it all again soon ; thus they play the Factious-Game , Sir , Game Sir , Game Sir , Ninny , Ninny , tame Sir ; see what a Monster they made thee ; Shave , shave thy Pate , Drown thy Wife , Poison Kate be Chreest and St. Patrick they've all betrayed thee . III . The Irish Nation was carried to Pawn , for Money , the Catholic War to maintain ; As soon as King William a Sword he had drawn , his Conquering-Army redeemed it again ; Now Monsieur , Begar , he may hang himself , they scampered and left the whole Kingdom behind they , But still we will follow the Hect'ring-Elf , in France , in France , we hope to find ' em . Charge , Boys , Charge Boys , rally , rally , charge Boys , like noble Lads with warlike Thunder ; Pursue them amain , in retreat they are slave , their Troops and their Ranks we'll break in sunder . IV. Loud Cannons did roar , and the Trumpets did found the which Warlike-Musick soon filled they with fear [ , ] The Devil a Teague of they all stood their ground , nor likewise the prodigal-Huff , Monsieur ; For , like nimble Deer , they all took their flight , not only the French , but the Catholick-Tory ; And still in their running they bid us Goodnight , and thus brave Nassau gained glory : Found Boys , found Boys , let the Trumpet found , Boys we were resolved they should restore us ; Towns which we wone , while the Catholics run , and thus did we Conquer all before us . V. Poor Teague with a sighs and a sorrowful face , with crossing his Breast , to the Saints he did cry , In spite of Tyrconnel , his Majesties Grace , we're forced to the Bogs and the Mountains to fly : When none did resist we conquered a Dea ' , the greatest part of the Irish Nation ; But Fait it has proved like a slippery Eel , we are forced to surrender at discretion : Nassau , Nassau , with his Valiant Army , fought and pursued us all together ; Rather than die , we did bid them good-bye , for our Brogues they were made of running Leather . VI . Old Jemmy our Master is scampered to France , and we would have followed as fast as we could ; But ere we could out of the Nation advance , like sorrowful Tories we all were fooled : Many that ventured to fight were Killed , but , for my own part , I was fearful to fire : Be Chreest in my running I was well skilled , and therefore in time I did retire : Charge Boys , charge Boys , still they followed , Charge , Boys , fearful I was that they would find me ; But as I run , I did throw down my Gun , and never so much as looked behind me . London , Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West Smithfield . The Bogg-Trotters March Or , King Williams Glorious Conquest over the whole Irish Army . To and Excellent New Tune , Or , March Boys , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . I. OLd James with his Rascally Rabble of Rogues , he drew up his Army pretending to stand ; But as they marched they must trust to their Brogues , the Dee'l take the hindmost was his Command : He had a Ditty he mumbled along , it went in the Tune of Lilli borlero ; But we will follow them close with a Song of March , Boys , march , Boys , Tan ta ra ra ro : March Boys , march Boys , merry , merry march , Boys , Teague ' s but a Mushroom to a Man , Boys , See how they fly , how they run , how they die , whilst Conquering William leads us on , Boys . II Thus Teague with his Loyalty , Mettle , and Pride , Resolves to maintain his Natural Prince ; Who the Plague blames him so nearly Allied , in Truth , Religion , Wit , and Sense ; He quits his Crowns , they Surrender his Towns , if he plays the Fool , they all do the same , Sir ; Loose or win , or get it all again soon ; thus they play the Factious-Game , Sir , Game Sir , Game Sir , Ninny , Ninny , tame Sir ; see what a Monster they made thee ; Shave , shave thy Pate , Drown thy Wife , Poison Kate be Chreest and St. Patrick they've all betrayed thee . III . The Irish Nation was carried to Pawn , for Money , the Catholic War to maintain ; As soon as King William a Sword he had drawn , his Conquering-Army redeemed it again ; Now Monsieur , Begar , he may hang himself , they scampered and left the whole Kingdom behind they , But still we will follow the Hect'ring-Elf , in France , in France , we hope to find ' em . Charge , Boys , Charge Boys , rally , rally , charge Boys , like noble Lads with warlike Thunder ; Pursue them amain , in retreat they are slave , their Troops and their Ranks we'll break in sunder . IV. Loud Cannons did roar , and the Trumpets did found the which Warlike-Musick soon filled they with fear [ , ] The Devil a Teague of they all stood their ground , nor likewise the prodigal-Huff , Monsieur ; For , like nimble Deer , they all took their flight , not only the French , but the Catholick-Tory ; And still in their running they bid us Goodnight , and thus brave Nassau gained glory : Found Boys , found Boys , let the Trumpet found , Boys we were resolved they should restore us ; Towns which we wone , while the Catholics run , and thus did we Conquer all before us . V. Poor Teague with a sighs and a sorrowful face , with crossing his Breast , to the Saints he did cry , In spite of Tyrconnel , his Majesties Grace , we're forced to the Bogs and the Mountains to fly : When none did resist we conquered a Dea ' , the greatest part of the Irish Nation ; But Fait it has proved like a slippery Eel , we are forced to surrender at discretion : Nassau , Nassau , with his Valiant Army , fought and pursued us all together ; Rather than die , we did bid them good-bye , for our Brogues they were made of running Leather . VI . Old Jemmy our Master is scampered to France , and we would have followed as fast as we could ; But ere we could out of the Nation advance , like sorrowful Tories we all were fooled : Many that ventured to fight were Killed , but , for my own part , I was fearful to fire : Be Chreest in my running I was well skilled , and therefore in time I did retire : Charge Boys , charge Boys , still they followed , Charge , Boys , fearful I was that they would find me ; But as I run , I did throw down my Gun , and never so much as looked behind me . London , Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West Smithfield . 