A New SONG , As it is Sung upon the WALLS of LONDONDERRY , By the Courageous English Soldiers , who Day and Night are Defending our Lives and Liberties . Made by and Honest Protestant Commander , and is now Printed for the Encouragement of our Protestants here , and especially SOLDIERS . To and Excellent New Tune , called , The New Scotch March . Licensed according to Order . I . LEt each Man here Courageously stand With Musket Charged , and Sword in his hand There is and Express that brings good News , The minds of French-men to amuse : Now let us Fight , brave Boys , and Die , To save our King and Progeny ; We will fight all , bleed all , die all , ever we will loose our Liberty . II Let no Man fear , we will never part , But Courage each brave Loyal heart ; Here will we stand , and be ready Armed , When cheerful Trumpets us Alarm . They who brave Englishmens Courage would know Shall find it severely when we go ; For we'll fight all , bleed all , die all , ever we will loose our Liberty . III . We'll Fight and fear God , and Honour the King , And obey his Will in every thing : There [ ' ] s nothing so hard but we will observe , From English Laws we'll never swerve : Though scalding Led was poured on our heads , And Bullets like Hailstones on us should play , Yet we'd fight all , bleed all , die all , ever Bloody Papists should get the day . IV. Though Papists Rejoice , and fain would see The Fallen of Englands Liberty , Yet we that have God and the King of our side , The cause of all this will decide : For we will Fight , and Bleed , and Die , To show our Truth and Loyalty : We will fight all , bleed all , die all , ever we will loose our Liberty . V. But Hark! our Men comes Shouting amain , For killing the Irish and their Train ; Their Guns do Fire , and Trumpets Found , And Drums do beatrice that shake the Ground : Huzza , brave Boys , we come , said they , And since we have had this Happy Day , We will fight all , bleed all , die all , ever Bloody Papists shall get the day . VI . We've beatrice back our Foes and got Ground , We make them quake when ever we Found ; So great is the Justice of our Cause , Over those that Rebel against our Laws : They may think that Rebellion is sweet , And may a while maintain the Field , But we will fight all , bleed all , die all , till we do make the Rebels yield . VII . In England they have done the same , The Papists there are come to shame ; And here with us they looked like Lambs , With their Cheats and Popish Shams : But now they think by force of Arms , To fright us with their loud Alarms ; But we'll fight all , bleed all , die all , till we free England from all their Harms . VIII . Come let our brave General led the way , We'll follow him by Night and Day ; Until we have our Countries Release , We will never sleep in Peace : We'll Fight our selves , and never expect To be Relieved by Strangers help ; But let's fight all , bleed all , die all , away , make haste , the Trumpets call . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce , in Little-Brittain . 1689 . A New SONG , As it is Sung upon the WALLS of LONDONDERRY , By the Courageous English Soldiers , who Day and Night are Defending our Lives and Liberties . Made by and Honest Protestant Commander , and is now Printed for the Encouragement of our Protestants here , and especially SOLDIERS . To and Excellent New Tune , called , The New Scotch March . Licensed according to Order . I . LEt each Man here Courageously stand With Musket Charged , and Sword in his hand There is and Express that brings good News , The minds of French-men to amuse : Now let us Fight , brave Boys , and Die , To save our King and Progeny ; We will fight all , bleed all , die all , ever we will loose our Liberty . II Let no Man fear , we will never part , But Courage each brave Loyal heart ; Here will we stand , and be ready Armed , When cheerful Trumpets us Alarm . They who brave Englishmens Courage would know Shall find it severely when we go ; For we'll fight all , bleed all , die all , ever we will loose our Liberty . III . We'll Fight and fear God , and Honour the King , And obey his Will in every thing : There [ ' ] s nothing so hard but we will observe , From English Laws we'll never swerve : Though scalding Led was poured on our heads , And Bullets like Hailstones on us should play , Yet we'd fight all , bleed all , die all , ever Bloody Papists should get the day . IV. Though Papists Rejoice , and fain would see The Fallen of Englands Liberty , Yet we that have God and the King of our side , The cause of all this will decide : For we will Fight , and Bleed , and Die , To show our Truth and Loyalty : We will fight all , bleed all , die all , ever we will loose our Liberty . V. But Hark! our Men comes Shouting amain , For killing the Irish and their Train ; Their Guns do Fire , and Trumpets Found , And Drums do beatrice that shake the Ground : Huzza , brave Boys , we come , said they , And since we have had this Happy Day , We will fight all , bleed all , die all , ever Bloody Papists shall get the day . VI . We've beatrice back our Foes and got Ground , We make them quake when ever we Found ; So great is the Justice of our Cause , Over those that Rebel against our Laws : They may think that Rebellion is sweet , And may a while maintain the Field , But we will fight all , bleed all , die all , till we do make the Rebels yield . VII . In England they have done the same , The Papists there are come to shame ; And here with us they looked like Lambs , With their Cheats and Popish Shams : But now they think by force of Arms , To fright us with their loud Alarms ; But we'll fight all , bleed all , die all , till we free England from all their Harms . VIII . Come let our brave General led the way , We'll follow him by Night and Day ; Until we have our Countries Release , We will never sleep in Peace : We'll Fight our selves , and never expect To be Relieved by Strangers help ; But let's fight all , bleed all , die all , away , make haste , the Trumpets call . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce , in Little-Brittain . 1689 . 