ENGLAND's HAPPINESS : OR , THE Loyal Subject's Unspeakable Joy FOR THE Safe Return of King William , FROM THE Warlike Country of FLANDERS , to the Kingdom of ENGLAND , where he landed on the 30th Day of October , 1693 , to the Joy and Comfort of all Loy - all Subject's . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc LEt all Loyal Subject's be pleased to draw near , It is joyful good News which I bring to you here ; For to cheer up your Spirits , then let us rejoice , Both the Court and the Land with a general voice , At the happy Return of Great William our King ; Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . The Queen in his Absence did govern alone , Being fixed like a beautiful Star on the Throne ; While the King marched in Flanders with his Warlike Train ; Now the Kingdom is blessed with his Presence again : At the happy Return of Great William our King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . The Storms on the Ocean he often hath boar , While the turbulent Winds and the Billows did roar ; Ay , and many worse Dangers for us he goes through , Therefore let all his Subject's be Loyal and True : At the happy Return of Great William our King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . When Cannons were roaring , and Bullets did fly , And the thick cloudy Smoke seemed to darken the Sky , In the midst of that Fury King William was there , Whose Life Great Jehovah was pleased to spare . At the happy Return of our True Valiant King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring ; Expressing what Loyal Affection we have For a Monarch so Valiant , Courageous and Brave , Who has oftentimes changed his rich Bed of soft Down , To a Tent in the Field for supporting the Crown . At the happy Return of Great William our King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . He valiantly fought in Defence of us all , At the great Fight of Landen , where thundering Ball From the throats of great Cannon which roared in the Air ; Therefore let us be Loyal , and free to declare Our Joy for the happy Return of the King ; Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . While Gallants of England lay close in their Nest , Our King in Field has been broke of his Rest , By the sudden Alarm sometime of his Foes , Yet he still will his Life and his Fortune expose . At the happy Return of this True Valiant King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . There's many a Noble who lives in the Land , Having but a few Thousands a Year at command , Does enjoy more De [ l ] ight then a King I declare , For the Crown of a Monarch is lined with Care . Yet let Heaven still prosper Great William our King ; Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . No doubt but in time all our Foes he'll destroy , And the Nation shall Peace and full Plenty enjoy : Let us pray that the Hand of High Heaven will Bless Both his Navy and Army henceforth with Success . And for the safe Return of Great William our King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for E . Tracy , at the Three Bibles on London-bridge . ENGLAND's HAPPINESS : OR , THE Loyal Subject's Unspeakable Joy FOR THE Safe Return of King William , FROM THE Warlike Country of FLANDERS , to the Kingdom of ENGLAND , where he landed on the 30th Day of October , 1693 , to the Joy and Comfort of all Loy - all Subject's . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc LEt all Loyal Subject's be pleased to draw near , It is joyful good News which I bring to you here ; For to cheer up your Spirits , then let us rejoice , Both the Court and the Land with a general voice , At the happy Return of Great William our King ; Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . The Queen in his Absence did govern alone , Being fixed like a beautiful Star on the Throne ; While the King marched in Flanders with his Warlike Train ; Now the Kingdom is blessed with his Presence again : At the happy Return of Great William our King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . The Storms on the Ocean he often hath boar , While the turbulent Winds and the Billows did roar ; Ay , and many worse Dangers for us he goes through , Therefore let all his Subject's be Loyal and True : At the happy Return of Great William our King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . When Cannons were roaring , and Bullets did fly , And the thick cloudy Smoke seemed to darken the Sky , In the midst of that Fury King William was there , Whose Life Great Jehovah was pleased to spare . At the happy Return of our True Valiant King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring ; Expressing what Loyal Affection we have For a Monarch so Valiant , Courageous and Brave , Who has oftentimes changed his rich Bed of soft Down , To a Tent in the Field for supporting the Crown . At the happy Return of Great William our King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . He valiantly fought in Defence of us all , At the great Fight of Landen , where thundering Ball From the throats of great Cannon which roared in the Air ; Therefore let us be Loyal , and free to declare Our Joy for the happy Return of the King ; Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . While Gallants of England lay close in their Nest , Our King in Field has been broke of his Rest , By the sudden Alarm sometime of his Foes , Yet he still will his Life and his Fortune expose . At the happy Return of this True Valiant King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . There's many a Noble who lives in the Land , Having but a few Thousands a Year at command , Does enjoy more De [ l ] ight then a King I declare , For the Crown of a Monarch is lined with Care . Yet let Heaven still prosper Great William our King ; Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . No doubt but in time all our Foes he'll destroy , And the Nation shall Peace and full Plenty enjoy : Let us pray that the Hand of High Heaven will Bless Both his Navy and Army henceforth with Success . And for the safe Return of Great William our King , Let full Bumpers go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for E . Tracy , at the Three Bibles on London-bridge . 