And Excellent NEW SONG ENTITLED THE Siege of Londonderry , OR THE CHURCH MILITANT . Containing the Sum of Colonel Walker is Speech , whereby he persuaded his Besieged Soldiers , to continue Steadfast , Valiant , and Courageous , a little before they Obtained the last Great Victory over the Enemy . To the Tune of , Hark the Thuddering Cannons Roar , etc Licensed , and Entered according to Order . I . WArlike Soldiers now Advance , Against the Pope and King of France With Cannon , Musket , Sword and Lance : We never will Surrender . We must either Fight or Die ; Therefore we will never fly , Till we get the Victory . Our King is Faith is Defender . II In Providence we put our Trust , For never was a Cause more Just ; Since Adam was made out of Dust. And though our Men be Wounded , We'll confidently Fight and Sing , But never believe a Popish King , Who would us under Slavery bring ; Till Rome be quite Confounded . III . We shall quickly Aid receive , English Soldiers stout and brave , Which will Londonderry save From Irish Conjuration : Then we'll take the Field and Fight , To keep Religion in her Right , And put Confusion to the flight ; And Rescue this poor Nation . IV. Religion and our Liberties , Our Lives , and all , at Stake now lies ; Then stand your Ground , and play the Prize ; And never be Enslaved . Let every English Man and Scot Rather die upon the Spot , Although the Fight be never so hight , Than be by Rogues deceived . V. Though the French to make us fallen , Muster Forces great and small , WILLIAM is One against them all : He knows both Sea and Land too . The Orange was our Antidote , Against Mother Church , and Popish Plot : That threatened English both and Scot . Then be at His Command now . VI . Your Spirits rouse , and Muskets Poise , Drums and Trumpets , make a noise ; Courageously we will Rejoice , And never fear for Dying . They'll Heretics no Quarter grant ; Both Faith and Charity they want . Then Live or Die , be never Faint ; Nor have a thought of flying . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by Jer. Wilkins , in White-Fryars near Fleet-street , 1689 . And Excellent NEW SONG ENTITLED THE Siege of Londonderry , OR THE CHURCH MILITANT . Containing the Sum of Colonel Walker is Speech , whereby he persuaded his Besieged Soldiers , to continue Steadfast , Valiant , and Courageous , a little before they Obtained the last Great Victory over the Enemy . To the Tune of , Hark the Thuddering Cannons Roar , etc Licensed , and Entered according to Order . I . WArlike Soldiers now Advance , Against the Pope and King of France With Cannon , Musket , Sword and Lance : We never will Surrender . We must either Fight or Die ; Therefore we will never fly , Till we get the Victory . Our King is Faith is Defender . II In Providence we put our Trust , For never was a Cause more Just ; Since Adam was made out of Dust. And though our Men be Wounded , We'll confidently Fight and Sing , But never believe a Popish King , Who would us under Slavery bring ; Till Rome be quite Confounded . III . We shall quickly Aid receive , English Soldiers stout and brave , Which will Londonderry save From Irish Conjuration : Then we'll take the Field and Fight , To keep Religion in her Right , And put Confusion to the flight ; And Rescue this poor Nation . IV. Religion and our Liberties , Our Lives , and all , at Stake now lies ; Then stand your Ground , and play the Prize ; And never be Enslaved . Let every English Man and Scot Rather die upon the Spot , Although the Fight be never so hight , Than be by Rogues deceived . V. Though the French to make us fallen , Muster Forces great and small , WILLIAM is One against them all : He knows both Sea and Land too . The Orange was our Antidote , Against Mother Church , and Popish Plot : That threatened English both and Scot . Then be at His Command now . VI . Your Spirits rouse , and Muskets Poise , Drums and Trumpets , make a noise ; Courageously we will Rejoice , And never fear for Dying . They'll Heretics no Quarter grant ; Both Faith and Charity they want . Then Live or Die , be never Faint ; Nor have a thought of flying . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by Jer. Wilkins , in White-Fryars near Fleet-street , 1689 . 