LONDON's JOY : OR , ENGLAND's Happiness In the safe Return of Our Royal Monarch King William , From the Country of FLANDERS , to his Royal Court and Kingdom . Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of , The Guinney wins her . KIng William , Heaven's Bless him , he's safe returned from Flanders , With Loyalty Address him , the Head of chief Commanders ; His very Enemies will own , That the like of him was never known , A right Heroic Soul , Then fill the flowing Bowl , A Bumper to the King , While Bells' in Triumph Ring , And Subject's sweetly Sing This strain , King William is returned again . Tho's Persons disaffected , may seem to Frown and Lower , That he is still protected by so Divine a Power , But yet their Frowns are all in vain , For Great William is returned again , In Triumph to the Shore , Oh , bid him welcome over , With pleasant Peals of Joy ; He did of late Annoy Proud France , who would Destroy This Land , if they could get the upper-hand . Proud France begins to Fear him , and so does Teague and Tory , Who did not dare come near him ; King William gains the Glory , For Luxemburgh cried out , Begar , If we Fight the English Guns will Tear Our Troops of armed Men , And prove our Ruin then . This said , in Camp they lay , And dared not to Display Their Flags in Battel-ray , But our King , does to the Nation Triumph bring . He fears no foreign Strangers , but like a Hero ventures His Life in midst of Dangers ; the field of War he enters , Where often peals of Cannons roar , Britain never had such a King before , Then let his Health go round , While Drums and Trumpets found , Since with his Royal Train , He plowed the Ocean Main , And is returned again To his own , sweet Partner in the Royal Throne . In Triumph , State , and Grandure , Dukes , Lords , and Commons meet him , Their King and Faith's Defender , where Subject's like they greet him ; So sweetly did the Music play , For to Celebrate the joyful day Of his return to shore , While Tower Guns did roar , And Subject's wishing he Might still Victorious be , With lasting Dignity , For none , did ever like him Grace the Throne . When Romish Superstition , and cruel Userpation , Took Wings of Expedition to overflow the Nation , Those Enemies he chased away , And pursues them to this very day : Therefore let Joy appear , As he returns each Year , In Triumph to the Town , Let Lorels of Renown His Royal Temples Crown , For none , did ever like him Grace the Throne . London : Printed for E. Tracy , at the Three Bibles on London-bridge . LONDON's JOY : OR , ENGLAND's Happiness In the safe Return of Our Royal Monarch King William , From the Country of FLANDERS , to his Royal Court and Kingdom . Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of , The Guinney wins her . KIng William , Heaven's Bless him , he's safe returned from Flanders , With Loyalty Address him , the Head of chief Commanders ; His very Enemies will own , That the like of him was never known , A right Heroic Soul , Then fill the flowing Bowl , A Bumper to the King , While Bells' in Triumph Ring , And Subject's sweetly Sing This strain , King William is returned again . Tho's Persons disaffected , may seem to Frown and Lower , That he is still protected by so Divine a Power , But yet their Frowns are all in vain , For Great William is returned again , In Triumph to the Shore , Oh , bid him welcome over , With pleasant Peals of Joy ; He did of late Annoy Proud France , who would Destroy This Land , if they could get the upper-hand . Proud France begins to Fear him , and so does Teague and Tory , Who did not dare come near him ; King William gains the Glory , For Luxemburgh cried out , Begar , If we Fight the English Guns will Tear Our Troops of armed Men , And prove our Ruin then . This said , in Camp they lay , And dared not to Display Their Flags in Battel-ray , But our King , does to the Nation Triumph bring . He fears no foreign Strangers , but like a Hero ventures His Life in midst of Dangers ; the field of War he enters , Where often peals of Cannons roar , Britain never had such a King before , Then let his Health go round , While Drums and Trumpets found , Since with his Royal Train , He plowed the Ocean Main , And is returned again To his own , sweet Partner in the Royal Throne . In Triumph , State , and Grandure , Dukes , Lords , and Commons meet him , Their King and Faith's Defender , where Subject's like they greet him ; So sweetly did the Music play , For to Celebrate the joyful day Of his return to shore , While Tower Guns did roar , And Subject's wishing he Might still Victorious be , With lasting Dignity , For none , did ever like him Grace the Throne . When Romish Superstition , and cruel Userpation , Took Wings of Expedition to overflow the Nation , Those Enemies he chased away , And pursues them to this very day : Therefore let Joy appear , As he returns each Year , In Triumph to the Town , Let Lorels of Renown His Royal Temples Crown , For none , did ever like him Grace the Throne . London : Printed for E. Tracy , at the Three Bibles on London-bridge . 