THE Irish-men's prayers to St. Patrick , To make their PEACE with K. William , and Q. Marry : Being a Dialogue between two Teagues , concerning the Army sent over to Ireland , Commanded by Marshal d' SCOMBERG . Tune of , The Country Farmer's now undone , Licensed , and Entered according to Order . TO : TEEDE . ( 1. ) O Brother Teague , and Teague my Roon , Arra what shall we do full quickly and soon ; De brave Ingalish Army is coming we hear , And brave General Scomberg in the front will appear : Oh den we must leave all our Cities Dear-Joys , And yield them unto those Ingalish brave boys ; Because that der Canons will make such a noise , Dey'l spoil all de F rench , and our Jerish Employs . ( 2. ) Tho now new Devil in bot Cork and Kingshail , Wid Galloway , Limbrick , and bony Youghail , And all the Cities in the North but von , And dats Londonderry , dats quite lost and gone , That plash our Army most sadly destroys , Because all dats in it are Protestant boys ; Der Canons against us do make such a noise , That day kill all de F rench , and our Jerish Dear-joys . ( 3. ) Den now brother Teague , what more can I shay , I fear that King Yeamus he will soon run away , Ven he hears that Duke Scomberg and his Army is come , He'll sheek for Fader P etre to help him to Room , Vhile we shall be left to Shaint Patrick to pray , That he vud be pleased for to help us I shay ; But der Canon against us so strongly will play , That unto the Bogs , we must all take our way . ( 4. ) Now Tyrconel lies shick of the old Cursed Plot , Vhile ve for his knavery shall never be forgotten ; Now the Priests are all ready to bite off der nailesh , To tink of the losh of the young Prince of Wailesh , Vhile we must be forsht for to stand the deveat , For der putting on ush that curshed great Sheat , For der Canons against us will make such a noise , Dey'll spoil all our shaying , Come on my brave Boys . Teagues Answer to Teede . ( 5. ) ALas brother Teede dis thing it is hard , And ve of our Lands now will all be debarred , Dey'll make all our Lords , and our Shentry bow , And what will become of us , I do not well know ; Dey'll make us surrender both City and Town , And yield they to the honour of Ingalands great Crown ; For der Canons against us so strongly will play , We shall not have hearts to withstand they one fray . ( 6. ) And vhen the whole power the Ingalish hash god , Oh den brother Teede what will fallen to our lot , I fear that the sheif and the best of our fellows , That are left , will be forsht for to die on the Gallows , Because in Rebellion so long we have stood , Against all the Ingalish and Protestant good ; Der Canons against us will tunder so loud , We shall not be able our selves for to shroud . ( 7. ) De bogs day will signify little to us , F or being so Loyal to Second Yeamus , Although that our Priests and our Shesuits swore , That we should have Lands and Livings Gillore , Not only in Ireland , but Ingaland too , That makes us in shorrow look pitiful blue ; Because by der Canons dose Slats from us flew , Vuod the Tivel had had all dose J esuite crew . ( 8. ) So to conclude , de best vay that I know for to take , Is to pray to Shaint P atrick our Peace for to make , And quite leave off fighting for Yeamus late King , And put Ropes round our Necks , and repent for our since . So dus by repentance we may be forgiven , And find mercy bot from great King Willlam and Heaven Though we have Rebelled at dish Curshed great rate , Yet we may find mercy of Ingalands great State . Printed for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbour Court in the Little-Old-Baily . THE Irish-men's prayers to St. Patrick , To make their PEACE with K. William , and Q. Marry : Being a Dialogue between two Teagues , concerning the Army sent over to Ireland , Commanded by Marshal d' SCOMBERG . Tune of , The Country Farmer's now undone , Licensed , and Entered according to Order . TO : TEEDE . ( 1. ) O Brother Teague , and Teague my Roon , Arra what shall we do full quickly and soon ; De brave Ingalish Army is coming we hear , And brave General Scomberg in the front will appear : Oh den we must leave all our Cities Dear-Joys , And yield them unto those Ingalish brave boys ; Because that der Canons will make such a noise , Dey'l spoil all de F rench , and our Jerish Employs . ( 2. ) Tho now new Devil in bot Cork and Kingshail , Wid Galloway , Limbrick , and bony Youghail , And all the Cities in the North but von , And dats Londonderry , dats quite lost and gone , That plash our Army most sadly destroys , Because all dats in it are Protestant boys ; Der Canons against us do make such a noise , That day kill all de F rench , and our Jerish Dear-joys . ( 3. ) Den now brother Teague , what more can I shay , I fear that King Yeamus he will soon run away , Ven he hears that Duke Scomberg and his Army is come , He'll sheek for Fader P etre to help him to Room , Vhile we shall be left to Shaint Patrick to pray , That he vud be pleased for to help us I shay ; But der Canon against us so strongly will play , That unto the Bogs , we must all take our way . ( 4. ) Now Tyrconel lies shick of the old Cursed Plot , Vhile ve for his knavery shall never be forgotten ; Now the Priests are all ready to bite off der nailesh , To tink of the losh of the young Prince of Wailesh , Vhile we must be forsht for to stand the deveat , For der putting on ush that curshed great Sheat , For der Canons against us will make such a noise , Dey'll spoil all our shaying , Come on my brave Boys . Teagues Answer to Teede . ( 5. ) ALas brother Teede dis thing it is hard , And ve of our Lands now will all be debarred , Dey'll make all our Lords , and our Shentry bow , And what will become of us , I do not well know ; Dey'll make us surrender both City and Town , And yield they to the honour of Ingalands great Crown ; For der Canons against us so strongly will play , We shall not have hearts to withstand they one fray . ( 6. ) And vhen the whole power the Ingalish hash god , Oh den brother Teede what will fallen to our lot , I fear that the sheif and the best of our fellows , That are left , will be forsht for to die on the Gallows , Because in Rebellion so long we have stood , Against all the Ingalish and Protestant good ; Der Canons against us will tunder so loud , We shall not be able our selves for to shroud . ( 7. ) De bogs day will signify little to us , F or being so Loyal to Second Yeamus , Although that our Priests and our Shesuits swore , That we should have Lands and Livings Gillore , Not only in Ireland , but Ingaland too , That makes us in shorrow look pitiful blue ; Because by der Canons dose Slats from us flew , Vuod the Tivel had had all dose J esuite crew . ( 8. ) So to conclude , de best vay that I know for to take , Is to pray to Shaint P atrick our Peace for to make , And quite leave off fighting for Yeamus late King , And put Ropes round our Necks , and repent for our since . So dus by repentance we may be forgiven , And find mercy bot from great King Willlam and Heaven Though we have Rebelled at dish Curshed great rate , Yet we may find mercy of Ingalands great State . Printed for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbour Court in the Little-Old-Baily . 