THE SOLDIERS GLORY , Or the HONOUR of a Military LIFE , [ A ] n Answer to the Country Farmers Happiness , and the Londoners Pleasure . Tune of , Old Jemmy is a Lad , of Royal Birth and Breeding . With Allowance . FIE sluggish Country Man , Forsake your Clownish Breeding ; And you more arch Trepan Of Land [ oh ] n , leave your Feeding : You're both conceited silly Fools , To boast what you should hide , Insipid , rusty , useless Tools , Your Edge is turned with Pride . Come forth and take up Arms , Assert your Country's Glory ; Mind neither Shops nor Farms , But dance the Warlike Bory : The Drum does Beatrice , the Trumpet Sounds , The Embattell [ ' ] worser Armies meet ; Their Complments are Blood and Wounds , In Fire and Smoke they greet . Our Canons they do Roar , And our small Shot does Thunder ; While you do sleep and snoar , Whole Towns we Storm and Plunder : You snug at home , like Snails in shells , And dare not show your Horns ; Obscure both Cit and Bumpkin dwells , While Fame our Deeds Adorns . The Soldier's Life is Brave , With Honour still Lenowned ; No danger he will wave , With Laurel to be Crowned : He covets Toils and grand Fatigues , To wade in purple streams , And scorn the City soft Intrigues , Or Humdrums Country Dreams . What Battles we have wone , And Coentries we did Conquer ; How France we did over run , Is known to e'ry Younker : But now our Londonderry Boys , All Stories do surpass , They Routed have the poor Dear Joys , And made Monsieur and Ass. Brave Protestants Rejoice , Your Foes before you Tumble ; Shout with a Warlike Voice , Let none be herd to grumble ; K. James is fled , his Army slave , There's none dare keep the Field ; And Valiant Kirk comes on amain , He'll Die before he'll yield . From Scotland there is News , The Rebels all are Routed ; Though some would us Amuse , As if 'twere to be doubted : But be assured that all is true , The Gazett does Relate ; Or else you're worse than Turk or Jew , And Infidels we hate . Now farewell Country Clown , And City Fop , I leave you ; The Village and the Town , Of Honour do bereave you : While you lie saaking in your Nest , I Crowns and Scepters Guard ; And at the end in Triumph rest , When Honour's my Reward . London , Printed for , and Sold by J. Wilkins , in White-Fryars , 168 [ 9. ] THE SOLDIERS GLORY , Or the HONOUR of a Military LIFE , [ A ] n Answer to the Country Farmers Happiness , and the Londoners Pleasure . Tune of , Old Jemmy is a Lad , of Royal Birth and Breeding . With Allowance . FIE sluggish Country Man , Forsake your Clownish Breeding ; And you more arch Trepan Of Land [ oh ] n , leave your Feeding : You're both conceited silly Fools , To boast what you should hide , Insipid , rusty , useless Tools , Your Edge is turned with Pride . Come forth and take up Arms , Assert your Country's Glory ; Mind neither Shops nor Farms , But dance the Warlike Bory : The Drum does Beatrice , the Trumpet Sounds , The Embattell [ ' ] worser Armies meet ; Their Complments are Blood and Wounds , In Fire and Smoke they greet . Our Canons they do Roar , And our small Shot does Thunder ; While you do sleep and snoar , Whole Towns we Storm and Plunder : You snug at home , like Snails in shells , And dare not show your Horns ; Obscure both Cit and Bumpkin dwells , While Fame our Deeds Adorns . The Soldier's Life is Brave , With Honour still Lenowned ; No danger he will wave , With Laurel to be Crowned : He covets Toils and grand Fatigues , To wade in purple streams , And scorn the City soft Intrigues , Or Humdrums Country Dreams . What Battles we have wone , And Coentries we did Conquer ; How France we did over run , Is known to e'ry Younker : But now our Londonderry Boys , All Stories do surpass , They Routed have the poor Dear Joys , And made Monsieur and Ass. Brave Protestants Rejoice , Your Foes before you Tumble ; Shout with a Warlike Voice , Let none be herd to grumble ; K. James is fled , his Army slave , There's none dare keep the Field ; And Valiant Kirk comes on amain , He'll Die before he'll yield . From Scotland there is News , The Rebels all are Routed ; Though some would us Amuse , As if 'twere to be doubted : But be assured that all is true , The Gazett does Relate ; Or else you're worse than Turk or Jew , And Infidels we hate . Now farewell Country Clown , And City Fop , I leave you ; The Village and the Town , Of Honour do bereave you : While you lie saaking in your Nest , I Crowns and Scepters Guard ; And at the end in Triumph rest , When Honour's my Reward . London , Printed for , and Sold by J. Wilkins , in White-Fryars , 168 [ 9. ] 