THE Soldiers CATCH : OR , The Salisbury Jig , Lately Sung at COURT . Licensed according to Order . To the the Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . TO : 1 ROom boys , room , room boys , room ; For from Ireland we come : We have mauled the Original Tories ; We have baffled the League Between Monsieur and Teague , And eclipsed the Grand Lewis his Glories . 2 They all fly in the Field , Their best Garrisons yield , They stand trembling , while we take their Passes . Our brave King at our Head , We fear no Steel , nor Led , But laugh at their Beads and their Masses . 3 I f some Blood we have spilled . To compound for the Gilded , In Love is Camp we will do double Duty ; Mankind we will repair , With the Leave of the Fair , And pay our Arrears to true Beauty . 4 Our worst Noise in the Pit , Shall pass all for good Wit , While the City and the Bumkins adore us . We will pay the Rogues well , Their Wives Bellies shall swell , And the Cuckolds at random shall score us . 5 The next S ummer for France . We will boldly advance , Our Noble Redeemer shall led us : We will break the Slaves Chains , And drink off their Champains , To the Health of that Hero that freed us . 6 He hates Lewis-le-Grand , Like a true English Man , And never will consent to a Treaty , Till each Neighbouring Crown Have what's justly their own , And the French strike Sail when they meet you 7 Since Elizabeth is Reign , No Protestant Queen , We have had , but the present , God bless he [ r . ] Since our Edward the Fourth , No brave Prince of such worth , But William , his Valiant Successor 8 With a Queen so devout , And a People so stout ; A Parliament that will supply ' em . A Cause that is Right , And a King that will fight , Our Enemies all we defy they . Printed for S. Smith , 1691. THE Soldiers CATCH : OR , The Salisbury Jig , Lately Sung at COURT . Licensed according to Order . To the the Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . TO : 1 ROom boys , room , room boys , room ; For from Ireland we come : We have mauled the Original Tories ; We have baffled the League Between Monsieur and Teague , And eclipsed the Grand Lewis his Glories . 2 They all fly in the Field , Their best Garrisons yield , They stand trembling , while we take their Passes . Our brave King at our Head , We fear no Steel , nor Led , But laugh at their Beads and their Masses . 3 I f some Blood we have spilled . To compound for the Gilded , In Love is Camp we will do double Duty ; Mankind we will repair , With the Leave of the Fair , And pay our Arrears to true Beauty . 4 Our worst Noise in the Pit , Shall pass all for good Wit , While the City and the Bumkins adore us . We will pay the Rogues well , Their Wives Bellies shall swell , And the Cuckolds at random shall score us . 5 The next S ummer for France . We will boldly advance , Our Noble Redeemer shall led us : We will break the Slaves Chains , And drink off their Champains , To the Health of that Hero that freed us . 6 He hates Lewis-le-Grand , Like a true English Man , And never will consent to a Treaty , Till each Neighbouring Crown Have what's justly their own , And the French strike Sail when they meet you 7 Since Elizabeth is Reign , No Protestant Queen , We have had , but the present , God bless he [ r . ] Since our Edward the Fourth , No brave Prince of such worth , But William , his Valiant Successor 8 With a Queen so devout , And a People so stout ; A Parliament that will supply ' em . A Cause that is Right , And a King that will fight , Our Enemies all we defy they . Printed for S. Smith , 1691. 