A DIALOGUE between the French and Irish Officers , Concerning their Leaving CHARL E MONT , With their full Resolution to go for DUBLIN , and inform the late King James of all their Misfortunes . Tune , My Life , and my Death . 1. O Brother Taylor what shall we now do , For that Army thats come now does make us look blue ; The English comes up like men of great might , We shall never be able to stand them one fight For their Cannons do rattle , & amp ; Drums they do play , We hold it convenient for to run away . 2. The Dutch men are stout , & amp ; strong in the field They will die for great William before they will yield ; their Looks they are grim , with a Voice when they speak , The thoughts of a Dutch man does make my heart quake . And their Cannons , etc 3. The Danes they do fight for Englands brave Crown , And they are fully resolved to beatrice popery down Their Noble Commanders will die in the field , To make all the French men & amp ; Irish men yield , For their Cannons , etc 4. O Brother Teague that thing I do fear , That James he will run away when our Army draws near , For the Name of K. William does frighten him so He will never be able to stand them one blow , And their Cannons , etc 5. There is not a Commander among ten , That dare to Encounter with the English men ; For why ? they are Courageous , not fearing to die They scorn from the face of a Tory to fly , And their Cannons do rattle , and Drums they do play , We hold it convenient for to run away . 6. We will go to Dublin , where James we shall see , And there will unfold our great misery , Against all the Forces that to Schomburg is come We will go and take Shipping , and all Sail to Room . For their Cannons do rattle , and Drums they do play , We hold it convenient for to run away . 7. All our Army to Doublin Repairs , We must leave all our Castles and Towns e'ry where Unto all the English , for why they do say , Fight on my brave Boys , for we have wone the Day , And their Cannons , etc 8. There is not one Battle that ever was fought , But that all the French men was put to the rout , And all by D. Schomburg , who never would yield But fight for to Conquer , or die in the field , And their Cannons , etc 9. Our designs they are Crossed as this we may see , Which has brought our Church to great misery For getting a Prince to be true to the Crown , the Heretics beatrice our Wooden Gods down , For their Cannons , etc 10. Welcome now Brother , we will leave the town And stand to the mercy of Englands brave Crown Although in Rebellion long time we have stood , Against all the English and Protestants good , For great William is merciful as we may see , We hope for a Pardon for thee and for me . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield . A DIALOGUE between the French and Irish Officers , Concerning their Leaving CHARL E MONT , With their full Resolution to go for DUBLIN , and inform the late King James of all their Misfortunes . Tune , My Life , and my Death . 1. O Brother Taylor what shall we now do , For that Army thats come now does make us look blue ; The English comes up like men of great might , We shall never be able to stand them one fight For their Cannons do rattle , & amp ; Drums they do play , We hold it convenient for to run away . 2. The Dutch men are stout , & amp ; strong in the field They will die for great William before they will yield ; their Looks they are grim , with a Voice when they speak , The thoughts of a Dutch man does make my heart quake . And their Cannons , etc 3. The Danes they do fight for Englands brave Crown , And they are fully resolved to beatrice popery down Their Noble Commanders will die in the field , To make all the French men & amp ; Irish men yield , For their Cannons , etc 4. O Brother Teague that thing I do fear , That James he will run away when our Army draws near , For the Name of K. William does frighten him so He will never be able to stand them one blow , And their Cannons , etc 5. There is not a Commander among ten , That dare to Encounter with the English men ; For why ? they are Courageous , not fearing to die They scorn from the face of a Tory to fly , And their Cannons do rattle , and Drums they do play , We hold it convenient for to run away . 6. We will go to Dublin , where James we shall see , And there will unfold our great misery , Against all the Forces that to Schomburg is come We will go and take Shipping , and all Sail to Room . For their Cannons do rattle , and Drums they do play , We hold it convenient for to run away . 7. All our Army to Doublin Repairs , We must leave all our Castles and Towns e'ry where Unto all the English , for why they do say , Fight on my brave Boys , for we have wone the Day , And their Cannons , etc 8. There is not one Battle that ever was fought , But that all the French men was put to the rout , And all by D. Schomburg , who never would yield But fight for to Conquer , or die in the field , And their Cannons , etc 9. Our designs they are Crossed as this we may see , Which has brought our Church to great misery For getting a Prince to be true to the Crown , the Heretics beatrice our Wooden Gods down , For their Cannons , etc 10. Welcome now Brother , we will leave the town And stand to the mercy of Englands brave Crown Although in Rebellion long time we have stood , Against all the English and Protestants good , For great William is merciful as we may see , We hope for a Pardon for thee and for me . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield . 