The Italian Duchess : Or , the Lamentation of Mary , late Queen of Great Britain , for the loss of her three Kingdoms . It was sent from France to the Countess of Tyrconnel , and now Published for the be - nefit of all English Subject's ; especially , those who love the Re - ligion of Old Mother Church . To the Tune of , Billy and M olly : Or , King James ' s Lamentation . LET every King and Queen give ear To my sad Lamentation , I weep , I cry , I rant and tear , And sighs beyond relation ; For Fortune pulled me up above The Clouds of Roman Glory ; But now I fallen , from Babel ' s Wall , As low as Purgatory . I came of Popish Pedigree , The Daughter of Modena ; And York did fallen in love with me , As Jove with Nonacrena . I turned him to Old Mother-Church , And brought him to Confession ; And now and then , in great disdain , I made him feel my passion . When Charles the Merciful and Great , Out of this World he tumbled , All England saw his sudden Fate , And all the Subject's grumbled : But I was quickly made their Queen , And all Men did adore me : But six Months space did turn the chase , All England did abhor me . By Father Petre ' s found advice , I wore the Royal Breeches ; And in the Privy Council , twice , I made two learned Speeches . Poor Monmouth is Head I caused Cut off , Which my Confusion furthered ; And hundreds more of Wretches poor , To my Good Health were Murdered . I beatrice my Peers that stood in awe ; The Bishops put in Prison . My will it was the Nations Law , Though it was void of Reason . Had not and Orange choked my rage , And broke what I intended , The Popish Cause had been the Laws , And England ' s Church had ended . I English Heretics ran down , And still promoted Popery ; I pulled my Husband from his Crown , And all advice was Foppery : And though I be a poor Man's Child , I'm not ashamed to say it , I've many a Night with Candlelight , A thousand Guinea's played . I to Our Lady did present A Holy Diamond Bodkin , And she to take it was content ; And was not that and odd thing ? In shams , I quickly then conceived , My Belly wore green Willow ; But Cut splut her nails , the brave Prince of Wales , Did prove but a Royal Pillow . My only Maid of Honour now , Is Goody Wilks that laid me , And though I made so much to do , I fear the Whore betrayed me : For all the Holy-days and Prayers , And roaring Works of Thunder , Were a threadbare Cloak , which Heaven did mock , And made but the World to wonder . O English-men , let me be Queen , I'll never drive but led you ; I swear by a French Gown of Green , I'll neither Hang nor Head you : Though you be Heretics , and I Be not bound to believe you , I'll trust you all , both great and small , And all your Crimes forgive you . But if you'll not accept of me , To be your Queen again now , I will stir up the French , and see What may be done with Spain too . I'll set on edge the P open of Room , And all these three will aid me ; A Topknot I , will also buy , And send it to our Lady . LONDON , Printed for M.A. in the Year . 1689. The Italian Duchess : Or , the Lamentation of Mary , late Queen of Great Britain , for the loss of her three Kingdoms . It was sent from France to the Countess of Tyrconnel , and now Published for the be - nefit of all English Subject's ; especially , those who love the Re - ligion of Old Mother Church . To the Tune of , Billy and M olly : Or , King James ' s Lamentation . LET every King and Queen give ear To my sad Lamentation , I weep , I cry , I rant and tear , And sighs beyond relation ; For Fortune pulled me up above The Clouds of Roman Glory ; But now I fallen , from Babel ' s Wall , As low as Purgatory . I came of Popish Pedigree , The Daughter of Modena ; And York did fallen in love with me , As Jove with Nonacrena . I turned him to Old Mother-Church , And brought him to Confession ; And now and then , in great disdain , I made him feel my passion . When Charles the Merciful and Great , Out of this World he tumbled , All England saw his sudden Fate , And all the Subject's grumbled : But I was quickly made their Queen , And all Men did adore me : But six Months space did turn the chase , All England did abhor me . By Father Petre ' s found advice , I wore the Royal Breeches ; And in the Privy Council , twice , I made two learned Speeches . Poor Monmouth is Head I caused Cut off , Which my Confusion furthered ; And hundreds more of Wretches poor , To my Good Health were Murdered . I beatrice my Peers that stood in awe ; The Bishops put in Prison . My will it was the Nations Law , Though it was void of Reason . Had not and Orange choked my rage , And broke what I intended , The Popish Cause had been the Laws , And England ' s Church had ended . I English Heretics ran down , And still promoted Popery ; I pulled my Husband from his Crown , And all advice was Foppery : And though I be a poor Man's Child , I'm not ashamed to say it , I've many a Night with Candlelight , A thousand Guinea's played . I to Our Lady did present A Holy Diamond Bodkin , And she to take it was content ; And was not that and odd thing ? In shams , I quickly then conceived , My Belly wore green Willow ; But Cut splut her nails , the brave Prince of Wales , Did prove but a Royal Pillow . My only Maid of Honour now , Is Goody Wilks that laid me , And though I made so much to do , I fear the Whore betrayed me : For all the Holy-days and Prayers , And roaring Works of Thunder , Were a threadbare Cloak , which Heaven did mock , And made but the World to wonder . O English-men , let me be Queen , I'll never drive but led you ; I swear by a French Gown of Green , I'll neither Hang nor Head you : Though you be Heretics , and I Be not bound to believe you , I'll trust you all , both great and small , And all your Crimes forgive you . But if you'll not accept of me , To be your Queen again now , I will stir up the French , and see What may be done with Spain too . I'll set on edge the P open of Room , And all these three will aid me ; A Topknot I , will also buy , And send it to our Lady . LONDON , Printed for M.A. in the Year . 1689. 