A ROYAL LETTER From A Mournful Monarch At S tO . Germains , to his Friend LEWIS the French King , Residing with his Army in Flanders . Tune is , Let Marry Live Long . Licensed according to Order . KInd Lewis my Friend , Since things goes no better , Here is a kind Letter , Which to you I send , To lay down your Arms ; Or my Conquering Son , He will soon overrun Your Kingdom , I fear , He'll bring a vast Army , He'll bring a vast Army , To Conquer you here . Since Fortune does frown , And sends none but Crosses , Ah! great are your Losses , My Kingdom and Crown You'll never regain , It's too late now I know , For a Powerful Foe Will shortly arrive , Stout Boys of bold Brittain , Stout Boys of bold Brittain Fears no men alive . I cannot but own , And so I will ever , You've done your endeavour To Ransom my Throne , By Powerful Arms , Yet do what you can , And Unfortunate Man I ever have been , Those that fight against you , Those that fight against you , Does Victory win . O labour for Peace , lest sad Desolation Should fallen on your Nation , Your Foes they increase At Home and Abroad : This effusion of blood , Makes mine Eyes like a flood , Flow Rivers of Tears , The cries of your People , The cries of you People , Too , pierces my Ears . Your Barons are killed , And Valiant Commanders , By fighting in Flanders , All Nations are filled With rumours of Wars , Which troubles me soar , Let us freely give over , Since fighting's in vain , I long to see Europe , I long to see Europe Now flourish again . The Fates has decreed That my Son and Daughter , For ever , hereafter , Shall flourish indeed , Which satisfies me , So one branch they will give , On the which I may live , I freely comply , I am not for fighting , I am not for fighting , No , no , no not I , Now here lies the case , The most I desire , Is now to retire To some holy place , To spend my last days , Therefore Lewis my Friend , Let the War have and end , And lay the sword down , I'm weary of seeking , I'm weary of seeking A S cepter and Crown . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . A ROYAL LETTER From A Mournful Monarch At S tO . Germains , to his Friend LEWIS the French King , Residing with his Army in Flanders . Tune is , Let Marry Live Long . Licensed according to Order . KInd Lewis my Friend , Since things goes no better , Here is a kind Letter , Which to you I send , To lay down your Arms ; Or my Conquering Son , He will soon overrun Your Kingdom , I fear , He'll bring a vast Army , He'll bring a vast Army , To Conquer you here . Since Fortune does frown , And sends none but Crosses , Ah! great are your Losses , My Kingdom and Crown You'll never regain , It's too late now I know , For a Powerful Foe Will shortly arrive , Stout Boys of bold Brittain , Stout Boys of bold Brittain Fears no men alive . I cannot but own , And so I will ever , You've done your endeavour To Ransom my Throne , By Powerful Arms , Yet do what you can , And Unfortunate Man I ever have been , Those that fight against you , Those that fight against you , Does Victory win . O labour for Peace , lest sad Desolation Should fallen on your Nation , Your Foes they increase At Home and Abroad : This effusion of blood , Makes mine Eyes like a flood , Flow Rivers of Tears , The cries of your People , The cries of you People , Too , pierces my Ears . Your Barons are killed , And Valiant Commanders , By fighting in Flanders , All Nations are filled With rumours of Wars , Which troubles me soar , Let us freely give over , Since fighting's in vain , I long to see Europe , I long to see Europe Now flourish again . The Fates has decreed That my Son and Daughter , For ever , hereafter , Shall flourish indeed , Which satisfies me , So one branch they will give , On the which I may live , I freely comply , I am not for fighting , I am not for fighting , No , no , no not I , Now here lies the case , The most I desire , Is now to retire To some holy place , To spend my last days , Therefore Lewis my Friend , Let the War have and end , And lay the sword down , I'm weary of seeking , I'm weary of seeking A S cepter and Crown . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 