JEMMY's Recantation ; OR , The French King's Threatenings for his Misfortunes . To the Tune of , The PUDDING . ( 1 ) NOw James is dismayed , and sorely afraid , And says , of three Kingdoms he so is betrayed , That he thinks it is best , for him now to rest , And let the three Kingdoms go along with the Test , For King William . ( 2 ) For brave England is gone , and has left him alone , And Scotland has quite thrown him out of his Throne Which makes him to Swear , and most sadly to stare To think how he's forced for to run like a Hare In the Bogs now . ( 3 ) He begins for to think , now he has lost all his Chink That if in the Bogs he should chance for to sink , The Coin would be spent , that the French K. has lent And he shall be paid when he fasts the next Lent , In a Hopp-Sack . ( 4 ) The Queen does complain , that the French K. in vain Has sent so much Money , and gets no more Gain , Which makes him presume , and most sadly to Fume To think that brave Schomberg has gave J . his doom For King William . ( 5 ) Lewis does repent , so much Money he has sent , Thinking the Heretics all to prevent , But now he does begin , to stroke down his Chin , For fear it should make him look pitiful thin Against J --- s too . ( 6 ) But now to prevent , brave Schombergs intent , He resolves the Prince of Wales shall be sent With and Army of Men , that shall make them to run To the Devil or further , before they have done With the Tyler . ( 7 ) Should the P. of Wales come , with his pike & amp ; his drum He then must be Clothed much like a Nun , He must come Civil , not like Pope nor Devil , And then they will give him a Rattle and Fiddle , With a Cradle . ( 8 ) And J --- s he does say , that the young Prince & amp ; he , Shall fare both alike , in the Bogs for to be ; Then Lewis and my Queen , they all shall be seen To run as far out of France as ever they were in , From King William . ( 9 ) But the Dauphin does say , if the Prince gets the day , That he shall go forward in Battle and Fray , Then his Fame shall rebound , and gallantly found , And he in Ireland then shall be Crowned By the Papists . ( 10 ) J --- s is in a sad Case , to be turned out of place , And a young Tile be put into the Royal Raze , We may well think , he has lost all their Chink , When a young Tile comes that will make him stink , Foolish Papists . ( 11 ) But J --- s he does say , he will not give way Unto the young Perkin before it is Day ; Before he'll be Schooled , and thus basely Fooled , Unto brave Schomberg he'll turn Tail , and hold For King William . ( 12 ) Our late Queen and Lewis they now do repent That J --- s into Ireland ever was sent , To cause so much Care , since he has been there , But yet all is lost they greatly do fear , By King Jemmy . ( 13 ) And now to conclude , poor J --- s is undone , He has lost his three Kingdoms & amp ; away he must run If he could but tell where , for to find the Popes Chain For Lewis and Mary he need not to care , Nor young Perkin . ( 14 ) For J --- s he does find , his Friends are unkind , He bids them adieu , and must leave them behind , For I hope in short space , King William takes place And will drive all the Irish Papists to Grass In the Bogs too . FINIS . Printed in the Year , 1689 . JEMMY's Recantation ; OR , The French King's Threatenings for his Misfortunes . To the Tune of , The PUDDING . ( 1 ) NOw James is dismayed , and sorely afraid , And says , of three Kingdoms he so is betrayed , That he thinks it is best , for him now to rest , And let the three Kingdoms go along with the Test , For King William . ( 2 ) For brave England is gone , and has left him alone , And Scotland has quite thrown him out of his Throne Which makes him to Swear , and most sadly to stare To think how he's forced for to run like a Hare In the Bogs now . ( 3 ) He begins for to think , now he has lost all his Chink That if in the Bogs he should chance for to sink , The Coin would be spent , that the French K. has lent And he shall be paid when he fasts the next Lent , In a Hopp-Sack . ( 4 ) The Queen does complain , that the French K. in vain Has sent so much Money , and gets no more Gain , Which makes him presume , and most sadly to Fume To think that brave Schomberg has gave J . his doom For King William . ( 5 ) Lewis does repent , so much Money he has sent , Thinking the Heretics all to prevent , But now he does begin , to stroke down his Chin , For fear it should make him look pitiful thin Against J --- s too . ( 6 ) But now to prevent , brave Schombergs intent , He resolves the Prince of Wales shall be sent With and Army of Men , that shall make them to run To the Devil or further , before they have done With the Tyler . ( 7 ) Should the P. of Wales come , with his pike & amp ; his drum He then must be Clothed much like a Nun , He must come Civil , not like Pope nor Devil , And then they will give him a Rattle and Fiddle , With a Cradle . ( 8 ) And J --- s he does say , that the young Prince & amp ; he , Shall fare both alike , in the Bogs for to be ; Then Lewis and my Queen , they all shall be seen To run as far out of France as ever they were in , From King William . ( 9 ) But the Dauphin does say , if the Prince gets the day , That he shall go forward in Battle and Fray , Then his Fame shall rebound , and gallantly found , And he in Ireland then shall be Crowned By the Papists . ( 10 ) J --- s is in a sad Case , to be turned out of place , And a young Tile be put into the Royal Raze , We may well think , he has lost all their Chink , When a young Tile comes that will make him stink , Foolish Papists . ( 11 ) But J --- s he does say , he will not give way Unto the young Perkin before it is Day ; Before he'll be Schooled , and thus basely Fooled , Unto brave Schomberg he'll turn Tail , and hold For King William . ( 12 ) Our late Queen and Lewis they now do repent That J --- s into Ireland ever was sent , To cause so much Care , since he has been there , But yet all is lost they greatly do fear , By King Jemmy . ( 13 ) And now to conclude , poor J --- s is undone , He has lost his three Kingdoms & amp ; away he must run If he could but tell where , for to find the Popes Chain For Lewis and Mary he need not to care , Nor young Perkin . ( 14 ) For J --- s he does find , his Friends are unkind , He bids them adieu , and must leave them behind , For I hope in short space , King William takes place And will drive all the Irish Papists to Grass In the Bogs too . FINIS . Printed in the Year , 1689 . 