The Mournful Monarch , OR , The Lamentation of the late King James , at the Dismal Tidings of the Surrender of Lymerick , in the Kingdom of Ireland . Tune of , Russels Farewell . Licensed according to Order . I . YOu Christian Princes of the World , vouchsafe to pity me , Whose thoughts are in Confusion hurled , like a Tempestuous Sea : I lost three Kingdoms and a Crown , by Jesuits Trappaned ; And now I wander up and down all in a Foreign Land. II Once I was Seated on the Throne , and did a Sceptre Sway ; True Subject's did my Power own , till I was led away , My Peoples Freeborn Liberty , to trample down with speed ; The thoughts of this does trouble me , and makes my Soul to bleed . III . When slavish fears did me inhance , I crossed the Roaring Seas , Straight to the Royal Court of France , in hope's to live at Ease : But I was sent to Ireland , and Army there to Fight , My French nor Tories would not stand , but took themselves to flight . IV. I left a standing Army there , about the Month of June , Their Pay was Brass , their Clothes were bore , their Courage out of Tune : Now I three Kingdoms quite have lost , for Ly'mrick is Subdued ; I have no Force , no Foot nor Horse , my Sorrows are renewed . V. Would I had never been a King , but of some meaner Raze , Then had I never felt the Sting of Trouble and Disgrace : Here must I wander out my days in Sorrow , Grief and Woe ; Those which I did to Honour raise , has proved my Overthrow . VI . All Ireland is now Subdued , my hope's are at and end ; The French , who thus my Cause pursued , hath proved a failing Friend : Farewell , farewell fair Ireland , my sorrows are increased , There's nothing that I take in hand does prosper in the least . VII . A thousand times I wish in vain ; that I had never seen , My Partner in my Royal Reign , that proud insulting Queen : I often granted her Request , what she did crave of me , Till I was clearly Dispossessed of Crown and Dignity . VIII . What Mortal would a Monarch Reign , since Cares the Crown does line ? The harmless Country Shepherd Swain , feels no such Grief as mine : The Subject that enjoys his own , let it be never so small , Yet he has more laid up in store ; than Kings , whose Crowns do fallen . IX . This World does most unconstant prove , from whence my sorrow springs , Now will I place my heart above the thoughts of Earthly things : My Honour , Triumph , Glory , State , this day does disappear , Both Crowns and Sceptres stoop to Fate , there's nothing steadfast here . X. I will go Mourning to the Grave , since all my Glory's fled , These very Lines , Oh let me have over my Royal Head ; That when a Traveller draws near , and reads my Dismal Doom , He may in pity shed a Tear upon my Marble TO omb . Printed for B.J. 1691 . The Mournful Monarch , OR , The Lamentation of the late King James , at the Dismal Tidings of the Surrender of Lymerick , in the Kingdom of Ireland . Tune of , Russels Farewell . Licensed according to Order . I . YOu Christian Princes of the World , vouchsafe to pity me , Whose thoughts are in Confusion hurled , like a Tempestuous Sea : I lost three Kingdoms and a Crown , by Jesuits Trappaned ; And now I wander up and down all in a Foreign Land. II Once I was Seated on the Throne , and did a Sceptre Sway ; True Subject's did my Power own , till I was led away , My Peoples Freeborn Liberty , to trample down with speed ; The thoughts of this does trouble me , and makes my Soul to bleed . III . When slavish fears did me inhance , I crossed the Roaring Seas , Straight to the Royal Court of France , in hope's to live at Ease : But I was sent to Ireland , and Army there to Fight , My French nor Tories would not stand , but took themselves to flight . IV. I left a standing Army there , about the Month of June , Their Pay was Brass , their Clothes were bore , their Courage out of Tune : Now I three Kingdoms quite have lost , for Ly'mrick is Subdued ; I have no Force , no Foot nor Horse , my Sorrows are renewed . V. Would I had never been a King , but of some meaner Raze , Then had I never felt the Sting of Trouble and Disgrace : Here must I wander out my days in Sorrow , Grief and Woe ; Those which I did to Honour raise , has proved my Overthrow . VI . All Ireland is now Subdued , my hope's are at and end ; The French , who thus my Cause pursued , hath proved a failing Friend : Farewell , farewell fair Ireland , my sorrows are increased , There's nothing that I take in hand does prosper in the least . VII . A thousand times I wish in vain ; that I had never seen , My Partner in my Royal Reign , that proud insulting Queen : I often granted her Request , what she did crave of me , Till I was clearly Dispossessed of Crown and Dignity . VIII . What Mortal would a Monarch Reign , since Cares the Crown does line ? The harmless Country Shepherd Swain , feels no such Grief as mine : The Subject that enjoys his own , let it be never so small , Yet he has more laid up in store ; than Kings , whose Crowns do fallen . IX . This World does most unconstant prove , from whence my sorrow springs , Now will I place my heart above the thoughts of Earthly things : My Honour , Triumph , Glory , State , this day does disappear , Both Crowns and Sceptres stoop to Fate , there's nothing steadfast here . X. I will go Mourning to the Grave , since all my Glory's fled , These very Lines , Oh let me have over my Royal Head ; That when a Traveller draws near , and reads my Dismal Doom , He may in pity shed a Tear upon my Marble TO omb . Printed for B.J. 1691 . 