TEAGUE the Irish Soldier ; OR , His Lamentation for the bad Success in the loss of Lymerick , and his Resolution to quit the Wars . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . or , Now , now the Fight's done . Licensed according to Order . I . NOw , now we are lost , by my Shoul , all undone , We dare not approach to France or to Room ; The Monsieur hath need of his Money and Men , And Swears that begar , he'l never trust us again : Since Lymerick is lost , we're debarred from all hope , And I fear the Church Cause will end in a Rope . 2. Ah Hone , Brother , Sarsefield , come , come let's away , The Devil shall tauke me if longer I stay : Father-Priest , my Dear-Joy , have on us put Cheat , With future Rewards of a Heavenly Seat , Estates here on Earth ; by his promise I know , But Lymerick is lost , and what shall we do now ? 3. Our Prophets Unlucky , the Truth still have missed , Henceforth I'll believe them no more , no by Chreest ; They told us brave things which at length we should find And yet may prove true when the Devil is blind : But for all they can do , we may now make our moan , Since Lymerick is Taken as well as Athlone . 4. Six Thousand tall Lads , sent to second the Cause , Shipped over to France-Land in spite of the Laws ; Like bold Sons of Mars , we protested , that all The Heretics Lands betwixt us must fallen ; But Teagueland Sings now , Hallow-loo , and makes moan , Since Lymerick has yielded as well as Athlone . 5. Tyrconnel in Heaven be his Majesties Grauce , Promised each a Reward , or and Officers plauce ; But Monsieur came in , and carried the Prey While I poor Pillgarlick received the Brass pay ; But still we expected a much better Fate , But the Taking of Lymerick ends all the debate 6. This Town we secured to make sure of the Game , But a pox oF the Devil , he owed us a shame : At the first of the Onset we quit the Fray , Our Arms we threw down , then to Heels and away ; Since Lymerick is lost , now what Fort shall we choose ? Poor Teague and the Monsieur may hang in a Noose . 7. The Shannon with echos does loudly repeat Our Howls and our Cries for Lym'ricks Defeat ; Our Fortress and Shelter in times of distress , And to cry now by Chreest , how can I do less : Bold Ginckle , though above we make Prayers and Complaints With the English , outdoes all our Legions of Saints . 8. I'll no more on a Steed with Holster and Boot , Nor be tied to a Sword , nor with Pistol will Shoot ; On a Galloway Tit I'll trot it away , With Bridle and Crupper of Thumbrope of Hay : In a Cot daubed with Cow-turd , I'll lie me down warm , In my Bed with each Feather as long as my Arm. 9. Let Zune long since left us , St. Ruth he is Slave , Tyrconnel is dead , and my King over the Main ; Now , now good St. Patrick come in with a blow , And give it them home , as thy Saintship knows how ; For poor Teague and I have quite done our best , And now by my Shoul , thou must e'n do the rest . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deaco [ n , ] J. Blare , and J. Back . TEAGUE the Irish Soldier ; OR , His Lamentation for the bad Success in the loss of Lymerick , and his Resolution to quit the Wars . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . or , Now , now the Fight's done . Licensed according to Order . I . NOw , now we are lost , by my Shoul , all undone , We dare not approach to France or to Room ; The Monsieur hath need of his Money and Men , And Swears that begar , he'l never trust us again : Since Lymerick is lost , we're debarred from all hope , And I fear the Church Cause will end in a Rope . 2. Ah Hone , Brother , Sarsefield , come , come let's away , The Devil shall tauke me if longer I stay : Father-Priest , my Dear-Joy , have on us put Cheat , With future Rewards of a Heavenly Seat , Estates here on Earth ; by his promise I know , But Lymerick is lost , and what shall we do now ? 3. Our Prophets Unlucky , the Truth still have missed , Henceforth I'll believe them no more , no by Chreest ; They told us brave things which at length we should find And yet may prove true when the Devil is blind : But for all they can do , we may now make our moan , Since Lymerick is Taken as well as Athlone . 4. Six Thousand tall Lads , sent to second the Cause , Shipped over to France-Land in spite of the Laws ; Like bold Sons of Mars , we protested , that all The Heretics Lands betwixt us must fallen ; But Teagueland Sings now , Hallow-loo , and makes moan , Since Lymerick has yielded as well as Athlone . 5. Tyrconnel in Heaven be his Majesties Grauce , Promised each a Reward , or and Officers plauce ; But Monsieur came in , and carried the Prey While I poor Pillgarlick received the Brass pay ; But still we expected a much better Fate , But the Taking of Lymerick ends all the debate 6. This Town we secured to make sure of the Game , But a pox oF the Devil , he owed us a shame : At the first of the Onset we quit the Fray , Our Arms we threw down , then to Heels and away ; Since Lymerick is lost , now what Fort shall we choose ? Poor Teague and the Monsieur may hang in a Noose . 7. The Shannon with echos does loudly repeat Our Howls and our Cries for Lym'ricks Defeat ; Our Fortress and Shelter in times of distress , And to cry now by Chreest , how can I do less : Bold Ginckle , though above we make Prayers and Complaints With the English , outdoes all our Legions of Saints . 8. I'll no more on a Steed with Holster and Boot , Nor be tied to a Sword , nor with Pistol will Shoot ; On a Galloway Tit I'll trot it away , With Bridle and Crupper of Thumbrope of Hay : In a Cot daubed with Cow-turd , I'll lie me down warm , In my Bed with each Feather as long as my Arm. 9. Let Zune long since left us , St. Ruth he is Slave , Tyrconnel is dead , and my King over the Main ; Now , now good St. Patrick come in with a blow , And give it them home , as thy Saintship knows how ; For poor Teague and I have quite done our best , And now by my Shoul , thou must e'n do the rest . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deaco [ n , ] J. Blare , and J. Back . 