And Excellent New SONG , CALLED , General Ginkle's Conquest , Or the Surrender of Limerick . To the great Joy of all Protestants . To the Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . With Allowance . I . LET the Nation be glad , And each true hearted Lad Rejoice , for Lim --- ricks surrender ; Set the Bells' all to Ring , While each Protestant Sings All Joy to , all Joy to brave Ginkle Commander . II Though Sarsfield is whole Force , That's composed of Horse , Was god to the To --- wn in the Night Boys , When a Sally they made , We the Irish so paid , That they scampered , they scampered , & amp ; run like to Dear Joys . III . The Walls of their Town , Which our Balls have beatrice down , Has put the Besie --- ged in Confusion , And our Bombs which were thrown , So much mischief have done , To surrender , surrender is now the Conclusion . IV. Brave Ginkle is whole Force , Beatrice the Enemies Horse , And killed of thee I --- rish Six Hundred , And without more ado , 300 Prisoners took too , While they in thee , they in the Town gazed and wondered . V. A white Flag they hung out , Which appeased the Stout , And straitways for Ho --- stages changed ; Brave Scravenmore went in , And Prince Hesse with him , While Sarsfield , and Wahop for them were exchanged . VI . It was on the Fourth day Of October , I say , The strong Town of Li --- merick that Wonder , Was left by their Force , Both of Foot and of Horse , To the English , the English , to Enter and Plunder . VII . Now may Ireland be , Erom the Rapparees free , Since K. William has a -- ll the strong places , May they all now submit , Or the Land forced to quit , And never more , never more dare show their Faces . VIII . Let the Guns in the Tower , Be discharged each hour , While our Drums beatrice , and Trum --- pets are sounding ; Let us all now advance , Against the Power of France , To the Monsieurs , the Monsieur's utter Confounding . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1691 . And Excellent New SONG , CALLED , General Ginkle's Conquest , Or the Surrender of Limerick . To the great Joy of all Protestants . To the Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . With Allowance . I . LET the Nation be glad , And each true hearted Lad Rejoice , for Lim --- ricks surrender ; Set the Bells' all to Ring , While each Protestant Sings All Joy to , all Joy to brave Ginkle Commander . II Though Sarsfield is whole Force , That's composed of Horse , Was god to the To --- wn in the Night Boys , When a Sally they made , We the Irish so paid , That they scampered , they scampered , & amp ; run like to Dear Joys . III . The Walls of their Town , Which our Balls have beatrice down , Has put the Besie --- ged in Confusion , And our Bombs which were thrown , So much mischief have done , To surrender , surrender is now the Conclusion . IV. Brave Ginkle is whole Force , Beatrice the Enemies Horse , And killed of thee I --- rish Six Hundred , And without more ado , 300 Prisoners took too , While they in thee , they in the Town gazed and wondered . V. A white Flag they hung out , Which appeased the Stout , And straitways for Ho --- stages changed ; Brave Scravenmore went in , And Prince Hesse with him , While Sarsfield , and Wahop for them were exchanged . VI . It was on the Fourth day Of October , I say , The strong Town of Li --- merick that Wonder , Was left by their Force , Both of Foot and of Horse , To the English , the English , to Enter and Plunder . VII . Now may Ireland be , Erom the Rapparees free , Since K. William has a -- ll the strong places , May they all now submit , Or the Land forced to quit , And never more , never more dare show their Faces . VIII . Let the Guns in the Tower , Be discharged each hour , While our Drums beatrice , and Trum --- pets are sounding ; Let us all now advance , Against the Power of France , To the Monsieurs , the Monsieur's utter Confounding . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1691 . 