King James's Lamentation For the Loss of His Three Kingdoms . It was Written Originally in Irish , by Bryon Onail , Chaplain in Ordinary to the Earl of Tyrconnel : A and now Translated into English , by Patrick and Teague , Monks of the Order of St. Benedict , and M embers of the Pop is most Sacred Conclave . To the Tune of , Billy and Mally . With Allowance . LEt all the Kings on Earth draw nigh , and hear my Lamentation ; No Man's unhapier then I , in any Place or Nation ; I was Great Britian is King , more great then all that were before me ; But the Rogues of Room , have me Undone , my Kingdoms do abhor me . Before that Charles fell from his Throne , I at his Honour aimed : No sooner was my Brother gone , but I was King proclaimed ; Three years I lived in all delight , never thinking on the Morrow , But now my Fate is turned to Hate , I sink in Seas of Sorrow . I Married and Italian Q ueen , my Greatness which Confounded : Her Father's poor Estate is seen , with Fourscore Miles surrounded : By Hocus pranks , and Lazy priests , and P opish Conjurations , She's pulled me down , I've left my Crown , and Three brave Warlike Nations . I to my Subject's broke my Word , and P opery brought in Fashion : I Tyrannized with my Sword , and made them feel my passion ; Their Bishops , Clergymen with all their Cities and their Charters , Both Church and State , did feel my hate , and would have been my Martyrs . My Council was Composed of Fools , the prosolites of Popery , Of Monks and Friars , and silly Tools , the Father's of found Fopperies ; And if a Wiseman Council gave , foretelling of my danger ; He was run down , and termed a Clown , to policy a stranger . The Bishops I sent to the Tower , and would have no denial : I Hanged my Subject's by my power , and then brought them to Trial , I did repute them Heretics that had not with me closed . But the P open of Room does pass no Doom , their new King's not deposed . I seldom herd the poor Man's Cause , or granted his Petition : The pride of Room I made my Laws , which flamed unto Sedition ; Poor Women I did Head and Hang , as Guilty of High Treason , And every Act was P opish Black , and destitute of Reason . The Scrabling Quacks , that please the Times , did blind me with Delusion , They drave with Nonsense , prose , and rhymes , the Wheels of my Confusion , For Toozer he did Bark and Roar , and Ringwood led the Bridle , And shuffling Mall the Breeches wore , her priests were never Idle . You Kings and Governors that be , attend my Lamentation , And take Example now by me , be wise by my Relation ; For providence does rule all things , in Country , King , and People , But great's the Fallen , and worst of all , that's from promotion's Steeple . LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White-Fryars , 1689 . King James's Lamentation For the Loss of His Three Kingdoms . It was Written Originally in Irish , by Bryon Onail , Chaplain in Ordinary to the Earl of Tyrconnel : A and now Translated into English , by Patrick and Teague , Monks of the Order of St. Benedict , and M embers of the Pop is most Sacred Conclave . To the Tune of , Billy and Mally . With Allowance . LEt all the Kings on Earth draw nigh , and hear my Lamentation ; No Man's unhapier then I , in any Place or Nation ; I was Great Britian is King , more great then all that were before me ; But the Rogues of Room , have me Undone , my Kingdoms do abhor me . Before that Charles fell from his Throne , I at his Honour aimed : No sooner was my Brother gone , but I was King proclaimed ; Three years I lived in all delight , never thinking on the Morrow , But now my Fate is turned to Hate , I sink in Seas of Sorrow . I Married and Italian Q ueen , my Greatness which Confounded : Her Father's poor Estate is seen , with Fourscore Miles surrounded : By Hocus pranks , and Lazy priests , and P opish Conjurations , She's pulled me down , I've left my Crown , and Three brave Warlike Nations . I to my Subject's broke my Word , and P opery brought in Fashion : I Tyrannized with my Sword , and made them feel my passion ; Their Bishops , Clergymen with all their Cities and their Charters , Both Church and State , did feel my hate , and would have been my Martyrs . My Council was Composed of Fools , the prosolites of Popery , Of Monks and Friars , and silly Tools , the Father's of found Fopperies ; And if a Wiseman Council gave , foretelling of my danger ; He was run down , and termed a Clown , to policy a stranger . The Bishops I sent to the Tower , and would have no denial : I Hanged my Subject's by my power , and then brought them to Trial , I did repute them Heretics that had not with me closed . But the P open of Room does pass no Doom , their new King's not deposed . I seldom herd the poor Man's Cause , or granted his Petition : The pride of Room I made my Laws , which flamed unto Sedition ; Poor Women I did Head and Hang , as Guilty of High Treason , And every Act was P opish Black , and destitute of Reason . The Scrabling Quacks , that please the Times , did blind me with Delusion , They drave with Nonsense , prose , and rhymes , the Wheels of my Confusion , For Toozer he did Bark and Roar , and Ringwood led the Bridle , And shuffling Mall the Breeches wore , her priests were never Idle . You Kings and Governors that be , attend my Lamentation , And take Example now by me , be wise by my Relation ; For providence does rule all things , in Country , King , and People , But great's the Fallen , and worst of all , that's from promotion's Steeple . LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White-Fryars , 1689 . 