King WILLIAM'S Courage and Conquest : TOGETHER , With the Glorious Success of his Royal Highness the Duke of Savoy ; to the Unspeakable Consternation of the French Court and K ingdom . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . HArk ! Hark! Hark! how the mad World , All Sword and with Fire , Conspire , Conspire ; Their Forces all Gay , In Battle Array , To Combat , to Combat with the Emperor of France , Yes let tO [ hem ] [ A ] dvance , Advance , While William , Great William shall dash them in sunder . And Scourge them with Scorpion Rods . As Jove drove the Giants down down by his Thunder , Who Battled the Throne of the Gods . All France , all France is in fear , Of true Sons of Thunder , Who under , who under His Highness's Command , Has Entered their Land ; Defending their Kingdom will prove but in vain , Fair Dauphin he soon shall gain : Thus William & amp ; Savoy shall dash them in sunder . And , etc Monsieur , Monsieur Catinat , Being overpowered , He scoured , he scoured Before the Savoys , Stout Conquering Boys , Which made his whole Army to tremble for fear , When they with their Duke drew near ; Thus Savoy great Savoy shall dash they in sunder , And , etc Strong Towns , strong Towns they shall yield To him at discretion , Oppression , Oppression , Has caused them to groan , And therefore they own His coming is purely to keep they from thrall . French Dragoons shall pay for all , For savoy , great Savoy shall dash them in sunder . And , etc His Arms , his Arms with success , Still clears all before him , Adore him , Adore him , The Protestants due , There's none but a Crew , Of Roman , of Roman that does him oppose , Who only shall feel his blows , For Savoy , great Savoy , shall dash they in sunder , And , etc To Arms , to Arms cries the French , For the Enemy's coming , He's Bombing , he's Bombing , Our Fortified Towns , And Conquering Crowns , Now thus in confusion they march to & amp ; from , Yet all is in vain I know , For S avoy , great S avoy shall dash they in sunder . And , etc Huzza , Huzza they rush on Like brave Alexanders , Commanders , Commanders Still Leading the way , In Battle Array , Tantararo , Tantararo the trumpets do found , While Cannons shall tear the Ground , Thus S avoy , great S avoy shall dash they in sunder . And , etc Now while , now while he runs on , Our King with Commanders , In Flanders , in Flanders , With Battering Balls Shall beatrice down the Walls Of Dunkirk , of Dunkirk ; & amp ; make they to know He fears no Insulting Foe ; Thus William and S avoy shall dash they in sunder . And S curge them with Scorpion Rods , As Jove drove the Giants down down by his Thunder And Battled the Throne of the Gods . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . King WILLIAM'S Courage and Conquest : TOGETHER , With the Glorious Success of his Royal Highness the Duke of Savoy ; to the Unspeakable Consternation of the French Court and K ingdom . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . HArk ! Hark! Hark! how the mad World , All Sword and with Fire , Conspire , Conspire ; Their Forces all Gay , In Battle Array , To Combat , to Combat with the Emperor of France , Yes let tO [ hem ] [ A ] dvance , Advance , While William , Great William shall dash them in sunder . And Scourge them with Scorpion Rods . As Jove drove the Giants down down by his Thunder , Who Battled the Throne of the Gods . All France , all France is in fear , Of true Sons of Thunder , Who under , who under His Highness's Command , Has Entered their Land ; Defending their Kingdom will prove but in vain , Fair Dauphin he soon shall gain : Thus William & amp ; Savoy shall dash them in sunder . And , etc Monsieur , Monsieur Catinat , Being overpowered , He scoured , he scoured Before the Savoys , Stout Conquering Boys , Which made his whole Army to tremble for fear , When they with their Duke drew near ; Thus Savoy great Savoy shall dash they in sunder , And , etc Strong Towns , strong Towns they shall yield To him at discretion , Oppression , Oppression , Has caused them to groan , And therefore they own His coming is purely to keep they from thrall . French Dragoons shall pay for all , For savoy , great Savoy shall dash them in sunder . And , etc His Arms , his Arms with success , Still clears all before him , Adore him , Adore him , The Protestants due , There's none but a Crew , Of Roman , of Roman that does him oppose , Who only shall feel his blows , For Savoy , great Savoy , shall dash they in sunder , And , etc To Arms , to Arms cries the French , For the Enemy's coming , He's Bombing , he's Bombing , Our Fortified Towns , And Conquering Crowns , Now thus in confusion they march to & amp ; from , Yet all is in vain I know , For S avoy , great S avoy shall dash they in sunder . And , etc Huzza , Huzza they rush on Like brave Alexanders , Commanders , Commanders Still Leading the way , In Battle Array , Tantararo , Tantararo the trumpets do found , While Cannons shall tear the Ground , Thus S avoy , great S avoy shall dash they in sunder . And , etc Now while , now while he runs on , Our King with Commanders , In Flanders , in Flanders , With Battering Balls Shall beatrice down the Walls Of Dunkirk , of Dunkirk ; & amp ; make they to know He fears no Insulting Foe ; Thus William and S avoy shall dash they in sunder . And S curge them with Scorpion Rods , As Jove drove the Giants down down by his Thunder And Battled the Throne of the Gods . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 