THE Church of ENGLANDS Wish For King WILLIAM's safe Voyage into Holland , with his Noble Reception by the States and Confederate Princes , at the Hague . To the Tune , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . I . MAy the Gods of the Sea , For great William make way ; And Command the rude waves to be calm in their Motion , May the Heavens prove kind , And continue fair Wind , To Conduct Englands Monarchs safe over the Ocean . II May Fortune still bless , All the Acts with Success , That are done by the Royal Confederate Princes , While the Subject's all join , To promote their design , And by large Contributions support their Expenses . III . May they quickly pull down , The French King from his Throne , And raise up new Trophies to the Fame of our Nation That [ at the ] Church more divine , [ Much sp ] lendor may find , And the [ Land be ] free from the Romish Oppression . IV. Oh! What Joy in the States , Our Great William Creates , They Receive him in Triumph with great Acclamation . Who His Life does expose , For the safety of those , Who will run equal hazard for their Kings preservation . V. Though the Papists and their Pope , Give our Enemies Hope , To recover what evil designs have quite Lost they , That they once might in vain Make a Trial again , To bring in dark Popery what ever it cost ' em . VI . Let the Pope hold with care , His infallible Chair , Lest the Princes that meet at the Hague do supprize him , Who tottering does stand , Vuhith his key in his hand , To lock up his Agent I feign would advice him . VII . Who study's in vain , His old Lands to regain , That the Romish Tormenters might trouble our Nation , But King William is Kind care , Stopped their proceedings here , And hazards his Life for the Church preservation . VIII . May he cross on the Main , With all Safety again , May his Voyage be blessed with the Calmest of weather . May he live happy long , And for ever be Young , God preserve our great William and Marry for ever . Printed for R. Kell , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield , near Pye-Corner . THE Church of ENGLANDS Wish For King WILLIAM's safe Voyage into Holland , with his Noble Reception by the States and Confederate Princes , at the Hague . To the Tune , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . I . MAy the Gods of the Sea , For great William make way ; And Command the rude waves to be calm in their Motion , May the Heavens prove kind , And continue fair Wind , To Conduct Englands Monarchs safe over the Ocean . II May Fortune still bless , All the Acts with Success , That are done by the Royal Confederate Princes , While the Subject's all join , To promote their design , And by large Contributions support their Expenses . III . May they quickly pull down , The French King from his Throne , And raise up new Trophies to the Fame of our Nation That [ at the ] Church more divine , [ Much sp ] lendor may find , And the [ Land be ] free from the Romish Oppression . IV. Oh! What Joy in the States , Our Great William Creates , They Receive him in Triumph with great Acclamation . Who His Life does expose , For the safety of those , Who will run equal hazard for their Kings preservation . V. Though the Papists and their Pope , Give our Enemies Hope , To recover what evil designs have quite Lost they , That they once might in vain Make a Trial again , To bring in dark Popery what ever it cost ' em . VI . Let the Pope hold with care , His infallible Chair , Lest the Princes that meet at the Hague do supprize him , Who tottering does stand , Vuhith his key in his hand , To lock up his Agent I feign would advice him . VII . Who study's in vain , His old Lands to regain , That the Romish Tormenters might trouble our Nation , But King William is Kind care , Stopped their proceedings here , And hazards his Life for the Church preservation . VIII . May he cross on the Main , With all Safety again , May his Voyage be blessed with the Calmest of weather . May he live happy long , And for ever be Young , God preserve our great William and Marry for ever . Printed for R. Kell , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield , near Pye-Corner . 