The Valiant Colonel , CONTAINING His wholesome Advice to the Troops of the MILITIA , his kind Countrymen , in the behalf of his King and Country . Tune is , Let Marry Live long . Licensed according to Order . I . BRave Boys of Renown , The Nations Physician , Who are in Commission , Be true to the Crown , your Freedom defend : Let your Enemies find , That y're all of one mind , to stand by your King ; And then will your Glory , And then will your Glory , through Christendom ring . II Discover your Fear , And then will you find them , If you do but mind them , Like Tigers severe in e'ry degree : But true Courage maintain , And fallen on amain , like Boys for your King , And then will your Glory , And then will your Glory , through Christendom ring . III . It's like they may boast , To fill you with Wonder , Of stout Sons of Thunder , A French Armed Host , yet what if they do ? Do but meet them at Land , And like Conquerors stand , and Fight for your King , And then will your Glory , And then will your Glory , through Christendom ring . IV. What though they are sent To Land in this Nation , Here lies the Vexation , They fear you'll prevent , Begar , their Design : You will find it right true , They're in more fear than you , then stand for your King , And so shall your Glory , And so shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . V. You well may suppose , With Horror surrounded , Their Courage is Wounded , Then follow your Blows , and give them the Chase : When once you draw nigh , Like Cowards they'll fly ; then Fight for your King , And so shall your Glory , And so shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . VI . The Spaniards of old , Who sent their Armado , This Land to Invade , Oh , While Generals bold , soon burned them at Sea : There was brave Captain Drake , He that caused them to quake ; do so for your King , And then shall your Glory , And then shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . VII . Invincible Spain Was greater than Lewis , Of whom such ado is , He covered the Main with great Ships of War ; But with Fire and Ball , They were ruined all ; do so for your King , And then shall your Glory , And then shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . VIII . Take Courage this day , Salute them with Fire , You'll see them retire , And scour away , as fast as they came ; Resolving never more For to trouble the Shore : do this for your King , And then shall your Glory , And then shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Valiant Colonel , CONTAINING His wholesome Advice to the Troops of the MILITIA , his kind Countrymen , in the behalf of his King and Country . Tune is , Let Marry Live long . Licensed according to Order . I . BRave Boys of Renown , The Nations Physician , Who are in Commission , Be true to the Crown , your Freedom defend : Let your Enemies find , That y're all of one mind , to stand by your King ; And then will your Glory , And then will your Glory , through Christendom ring . II Discover your Fear , And then will you find them , If you do but mind them , Like Tigers severe in e'ry degree : But true Courage maintain , And fallen on amain , like Boys for your King , And then will your Glory , And then will your Glory , through Christendom ring . III . It's like they may boast , To fill you with Wonder , Of stout Sons of Thunder , A French Armed Host , yet what if they do ? Do but meet them at Land , And like Conquerors stand , and Fight for your King , And then will your Glory , And then will your Glory , through Christendom ring . IV. What though they are sent To Land in this Nation , Here lies the Vexation , They fear you'll prevent , Begar , their Design : You will find it right true , They're in more fear than you , then stand for your King , And so shall your Glory , And so shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . V. You well may suppose , With Horror surrounded , Their Courage is Wounded , Then follow your Blows , and give them the Chase : When once you draw nigh , Like Cowards they'll fly ; then Fight for your King , And so shall your Glory , And so shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . VI . The Spaniards of old , Who sent their Armado , This Land to Invade , Oh , While Generals bold , soon burned them at Sea : There was brave Captain Drake , He that caused them to quake ; do so for your King , And then shall your Glory , And then shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . VII . Invincible Spain Was greater than Lewis , Of whom such ado is , He covered the Main with great Ships of War ; But with Fire and Ball , They were ruined all ; do so for your King , And then shall your Glory , And then shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . VIII . Take Courage this day , Salute them with Fire , You'll see them retire , And scour away , as fast as they came ; Resolving never more For to trouble the Shore : do this for your King , And then shall your Glory , And then shall your Glory , through Christendom ring . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 