The Destruction of Care . OR , The Gallants Worthy Commendation of the MUG . To and Excellent New Tune . This may be Printed , R [ . P. ] ( 1 ) IF Sorrow the Tyrant invade thy Breast , hale out the foul Fiend by the Lug the Lug , Let no thought of to morrow disturb they rest , but banish despair with a Mug , a Mug : If business unluckily goes not well , let the found Fools their affection hug ; To show our Allegiance we'll go to the Bell , and banish despair with a Mug , a Mug. ( 2 ) If thy Wife proves not one of the best , the best , and admits of no time but to think , to think , Or the weight of thy forehead bow down thy crest , diverty thy dull demon with drink , with drink , If thy Mistress then proves both peevish and coy , never pine , never pine at the wanton Pug , But find out a fairer and kinder then she , and banish despair with a Mug , a Mug. ( 3 ) For any Coy Mistress do not complain , thou hast no just reason at all to grieve , For Malt I declare is a noble Grain , that soon will thy drooping Spirits releave : Far better than any Doctor in Town , by virtue of any detestable drug , When liquour of life is god into the Crown , we'll wash away cares with a Mug , a Mug. ( 4 ) Boys , Money was made to fly like the dust , yet Misers will hoard it we understand , Until it is almost consumed with rust , but we'll keep it moving from hand to hand : Creating a trade from morning till night , let droans in their Mistress's arms lie snug , Let this be the object of your delight , to kiss the sweet Lips of a Mug , a Mug. ( 5 ) the Gallants be jolly , and never repine , for this is the brave Golden Age we see , If thou'lt be thy Shilling , then i'll be mine , there's none shall be merrier Lads than we ; This Liquour is good as I am a Man , therefore I resolve to take tother tug , You shall do the like , good Sir , if you can , to fathom the depth of a Mug , a Mug ; ( 6 ) Let worldly affairs never cause thee to fret , i'de have e'ry one as merry as we , Prove Sorrow and Care did ever pay debt , and then i'll allow you your liberty ; But overmuch Care has made many Mad , now he that desires the same to hug , I wish him as much as ever man had , while we are enjoying a Mug , a Mug. ( 7 ) They're Fools that will pinch to gain and estate ; such humours hall never trouble my head , Because I declare I perfectly hate my Friends should ever go to Law when I'm dea [ worser ] For Houses , or what to me might belong , the Old from the young endeavours to tug , Because there is no shall suffer the wrong , I'll aways admire a Mug , a Mug. ( 8 ) One reason I valve it at this rate , it does not deprive the house of much stock , Nor is there the danger that is in Plate , beside our Liquour as Cool as a Rock , Flows from it as if the pleasantest Spring , therefore like a Friend the same I will hug , And always will drink a good Health to the King out of my beloved the Mug , the Mug. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Destruction of Care . OR , The Gallants Worthy Commendation of the MUG . To and Excellent New Tune . This may be Printed , R [ . P. ] ( 1 ) IF Sorrow the Tyrant invade thy Breast , hale out the foul Fiend by the Lug the Lug , Let no thought of to morrow disturb they rest , but banish despair with a Mug , a Mug : If business unluckily goes not well , let the found Fools their affection hug ; To show our Allegiance we'll go to the Bell , and banish despair with a Mug , a Mug. ( 2 ) If thy Wife proves not one of the best , the best , and admits of no time but to think , to think , Or the weight of thy forehead bow down thy crest , diverty thy dull demon with drink , with drink , If thy Mistress then proves both peevish and coy , never pine , never pine at the wanton Pug , But find out a fairer and kinder then she , and banish despair with a Mug , a Mug. ( 3 ) For any Coy Mistress do not complain , thou hast no just reason at all to grieve , For Malt I declare is a noble Grain , that soon will thy drooping Spirits releave : Far better than any Doctor in Town , by virtue of any detestable drug , When liquour of life is god into the Crown , we'll wash away cares with a Mug , a Mug. ( 4 ) Boys , Money was made to fly like the dust , yet Misers will hoard it we understand , Until it is almost consumed with rust , but we'll keep it moving from hand to hand : Creating a trade from morning till night , let droans in their Mistress's arms lie snug , Let this be the object of your delight , to kiss the sweet Lips of a Mug , a Mug. ( 5 ) the Gallants be jolly , and never repine , for this is the brave Golden Age we see , If thou'lt be thy Shilling , then i'll be mine , there's none shall be merrier Lads than we ; This Liquour is good as I am a Man , therefore I resolve to take tother tug , You shall do the like , good Sir , if you can , to fathom the depth of a Mug , a Mug ; ( 6 ) Let worldly affairs never cause thee to fret , i'de have e'ry one as merry as we , Prove Sorrow and Care did ever pay debt , and then i'll allow you your liberty ; But overmuch Care has made many Mad , now he that desires the same to hug , I wish him as much as ever man had , while we are enjoying a Mug , a Mug. ( 7 ) They're Fools that will pinch to gain and estate ; such humours hall never trouble my head , Because I declare I perfectly hate my Friends should ever go to Law when I'm dea [ worser ] For Houses , or what to me might belong , the Old from the young endeavours to tug , Because there is no shall suffer the wrong , I'll aways admire a Mug , a Mug. ( 8 ) One reason I valve it at this rate , it does not deprive the house of much stock , Nor is there the danger that is in Plate , beside our Liquour as Cool as a Rock , Flows from it as if the pleasantest Spring , therefore like a Friend the same I will hug , And always will drink a good Health to the King out of my beloved the Mug , the Mug. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 