The POT-Companions : OR , Drinking and Smoking preferred before Caballing and Plotting . To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , The Loyal Health , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) COme make a good Toast , and stir up the Fire , And fill the great Tankard of what we admire ; Then bring in a Paper of Excellent Fogo , That we may Perfume the whole House with a Hogo : And here let us fit like honest brave Fellows , That neither are Tories nor Whigs in and Alehouse . And here let us fit like honest brave Fellows , That neither are Tories nor Whigs in [ and ] Alehouse . ( 2 ) Let Politic Statesmen Grave Coffee Espouse , While we in more general Liquours Carouse ; Let News-Letters , Libels , and Banter fill up The Paper-skulled Fops , while we Tipple the Cup : Our Heads are more solid , our Hearts are more true , Each Man has his load , yet no Treason we spue . Our Heads , etc ( 3 ) Though the French were all Landed , as some haver recounted , Though they had a hundred great Cannon all mounted ; And Lewis himself did Head these brave Fellows , The Devil a foot would we stir from the Alehouse : But e'ry Man Armed with his Pipe and his Pot , Weed smother or drown the Monsieurs on the Spot . But e'ry Man , etc ( 4 ) But we meddle not with the French or the Dutch , But Drink in plain English , and that very much ; We broach no new Shams of the one side or tother , But e'ry Man tops a full Glass to his Brother : For better it is to be honestly Sotting , Than soberly Hang for Caballing and Plotting . For better it is , etc ( 5 ) We care not a pin for the Humours o'th' People , Nor trouble our heads about Building Pauls Steeple ; The Feuds of the Nation are nothing to us , Though some are so busy & amp ; keep such a Fuss ; While Commonwealth's hatched by their whining and The Monarchy thrives by our Smoking and Drinking While Commonwealth's , etc ( 6 ) Thus we are good Subject's and Friends to the Crown , In letting full Bumpers go merrily down : A new sort of Chimney-rent also we raise , For fanking his Nose e'ry Good-fellow pays : Our Smoking does cause the Kings Customs to rise , And Fuddling advances the Royal Excise . Our Smoking , etc ( 7 ) We raise no Disputes that belong to the Pulpit , Nor start from our Text , but profoundly we gulp it ; We hanve not among us a Canting Presbyter , But all honest Souls that will stand by the Miter : The Crown and the Miter we all will defend , Here's a Health to them both , and so let us end , The Crown , etc ( 8 ) Then away to the King , let the Tankard go round , And he that won't Pledge it I doubt is not Found ; To the Queen and the rest of the Royal old Blood , To the Bishops , and all that are Loyal and Good : To the Lords & amp ; the Commons , & amp ; other good Christians But Guard us , good Lord , from the whining Philistians To the Lords & amp ; the Commons , and other good Christians But Guard us , good Lord , from the whining Philistians Printed and Sold by J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . The POT-Companions : OR , Drinking and Smoking preferred before Caballing and Plotting . To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , The Loyal Health , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) COme make a good Toast , and stir up the Fire , And fill the great Tankard of what we admire ; Then bring in a Paper of Excellent Fogo , That we may Perfume the whole House with a Hogo : And here let us fit like honest brave Fellows , That neither are Tories nor Whigs in and Alehouse . And here let us fit like honest brave Fellows , That neither are Tories nor Whigs in [ and ] Alehouse . ( 2 ) Let Politic Statesmen Grave Coffee Espouse , While we in more general Liquours Carouse ; Let News-Letters , Libels , and Banter fill up The Paper-skulled Fops , while we Tipple the Cup : Our Heads are more solid , our Hearts are more true , Each Man has his load , yet no Treason we spue . Our Heads , etc ( 3 ) Though the French were all Landed , as some haver recounted , Though they had a hundred great Cannon all mounted ; And Lewis himself did Head these brave Fellows , The Devil a foot would we stir from the Alehouse : But e'ry Man Armed with his Pipe and his Pot , Weed smother or drown the Monsieurs on the Spot . But e'ry Man , etc ( 4 ) But we meddle not with the French or the Dutch , But Drink in plain English , and that very much ; We broach no new Shams of the one side or tother , But e'ry Man tops a full Glass to his Brother : For better it is to be honestly Sotting , Than soberly Hang for Caballing and Plotting . For better it is , etc ( 5 ) We care not a pin for the Humours o'th' People , Nor trouble our heads about Building Pauls Steeple ; The Feuds of the Nation are nothing to us , Though some are so busy & amp ; keep such a Fuss ; While Commonwealth's hatched by their whining and The Monarchy thrives by our Smoking and Drinking While Commonwealth's , etc ( 6 ) Thus we are good Subject's and Friends to the Crown , In letting full Bumpers go merrily down : A new sort of Chimney-rent also we raise , For fanking his Nose e'ry Good-fellow pays : Our Smoking does cause the Kings Customs to rise , And Fuddling advances the Royal Excise . Our Smoking , etc ( 7 ) We raise no Disputes that belong to the Pulpit , Nor start from our Text , but profoundly we gulp it ; We hanve not among us a Canting Presbyter , But all honest Souls that will stand by the Miter : The Crown and the Miter we all will defend , Here's a Health to them both , and so let us end , The Crown , etc ( 8 ) Then away to the King , let the Tankard go round , And he that won't Pledge it I doubt is not Found ; To the Queen and the rest of the Royal old Blood , To the Bishops , and all that are Loyal and Good : To the Lords & amp ; the Commons , & amp ; other good Christians But Guard us , good Lord , from the whining Philistians To the Lords & amp ; the Commons , and other good Christians But Guard us , good Lord , from the whining Philistians Printed and Sold by J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . 