The Boon Companions . OR , The Merry Loyal Boys of SUFFOLK is JOVIAL HEALTH . To the Tune of , Found Boy . Licensed according to Order . WE are the bold Suffolk boon reveling Boys , Who will fill both the Tavern & amp ; Alehouse with noise ; For the Liquour of life we do dearly adore , When the bottles are empty we'll thunder for more , For to make our hearts cheerful we'll merrily sing , With a rousing full Bumper to Caesar , our King . We'll rise with the Morning , keep pace with the Sun , We'll begin with a gallon , and end with a tun , For there's nothing like Drinking to cheer up the soul , Then about with a Bumper , a cherishing bowl ; All the Cares of the world are but madness , you know , We will drown them in Rivers where Nector does flow . Be nimble brave Tapster , and bring us more beer , Let not honest good fellows fit lazily here , Here's a bumper to him that is true to his friend , And there's more money god than we ever shall spend ; Therefore bring us a paper of Excellent Fogo , That we here may perfume the whole house with a Hogo . In matters of State we will never be concerned , We're a pack of boon fellows , who only have learned Here the true way of Drinking , and that is our pride , Therefore let it come in like a full flowing tide , And let them go to War that takes pleasure therein , We do think it more safe to sleep in a whole skin . Though the French they were landed , as some have recounted And though they had a hundred large Cannons all mounted , L ikewise Lewis of France for to head these fine fellows , Yet the devil a foot would we stir from the Alehouse , But we'd each man be armed with a pipe and his pot , Thus we'd smother and drowned the Monsieur on the spot . If Monsieur should venture to come on this shore , From the Alehouse & amp ; Tavern our bombs they should roar , While our smoke from the windows like vapours shall fly , Or a thick misty cloud for to darken the sky : Thus we'd stand to our drink like each man to his gun , And it is not the French that should make us to run . Thus we are good subject's and friends to the Crown , In letting full bumpers go merrily down ; And a new sort of Custom we constantly raise , F or the smoking his Nose e'ry good fellow pays , Thus our smoking does cause the Kings Custom to rise , And the fuddling advances the Royal Excise . We needs must acknowledge we take no delight For to go to the Wars there to quarrel and fight , We had rather in love stay at home with our Wives , And let them go that never did valve their lives , Yet we'll drink a full bumper now merrily round , A good Health to the King with our knees to the ground Here [ is ] a Health to true hearts that are honest and just , Who was never unfaithful nor false to their trust , Such as those we admire above any other , I hope you will pledge this good health honest brother , It is better for us to fit honestly sotting , Than to live to be hanged for Cabelling and Plotting . Printed for Charles Bates at the White - Heart in West-Smithfield . The Boon Companions . OR , The Merry Loyal Boys of SUFFOLK is JOVIAL HEALTH . To the Tune of , Found Boy . Licensed according to Order . WE are the bold Suffolk boon reveling Boys , Who will fill both the Tavern & amp ; Alehouse with noise ; For the Liquour of life we do dearly adore , When the bottles are empty we'll thunder for more , For to make our hearts cheerful we'll merrily sing , With a rousing full Bumper to Caesar , our King . We'll rise with the Morning , keep pace with the Sun , We'll begin with a gallon , and end with a tun , For there's nothing like Drinking to cheer up the soul , Then about with a Bumper , a cherishing bowl ; All the Cares of the world are but madness , you know , We will drown them in Rivers where Nector does flow . Be nimble brave Tapster , and bring us more beer , Let not honest good fellows fit lazily here , Here's a bumper to him that is true to his friend , And there's more money god than we ever shall spend ; Therefore bring us a paper of Excellent Fogo , That we here may perfume the whole house with a Hogo . In matters of State we will never be concerned , We're a pack of boon fellows , who only have learned Here the true way of Drinking , and that is our pride , Therefore let it come in like a full flowing tide , And let them go to War that takes pleasure therein , We do think it more safe to sleep in a whole skin . Though the French they were landed , as some have recounted And though they had a hundred large Cannons all mounted , L ikewise Lewis of France for to head these fine fellows , Yet the devil a foot would we stir from the Alehouse , But we'd each man be armed with a pipe and his pot , Thus we'd smother and drowned the Monsieur on the spot . If Monsieur should venture to come on this shore , From the Alehouse & amp ; Tavern our bombs they should roar , While our smoke from the windows like vapours shall fly , Or a thick misty cloud for to darken the sky : Thus we'd stand to our drink like each man to his gun , And it is not the French that should make us to run . Thus we are good subject's and friends to the Crown , In letting full bumpers go merrily down ; And a new sort of Custom we constantly raise , F or the smoking his Nose e'ry good fellow pays , Thus our smoking does cause the Kings Custom to rise , And the fuddling advances the Royal Excise . We needs must acknowledge we take no delight For to go to the Wars there to quarrel and fight , We had rather in love stay at home with our Wives , And let them go that never did valve their lives , Yet we'll drink a full bumper now merrily round , A good Health to the King with our knees to the ground Here [ is ] a Health to true hearts that are honest and just , Who was never unfaithful nor false to their trust , Such as those we admire above any other , I hope you will pledge this good health honest brother , It is better for us to fit honestly sotting , Than to live to be hanged for Cabelling and Plotting . Printed for Charles Bates at the White - Heart in West-Smithfield . 