A NEW Merry Medley . Containing a Fit of Innocent Mirth in Melancholy Times , together with a Health to the M an in the Moon . Tune of , Found Boy . Licensed according to Order . I . HEre is a New Medley of Pastime enough , My Grand Mother was and Old wife in a Ruff , I will go to the Captain and fallen on my Knees , Shon ap Morgan loves Leeks and hur good toasted sheese , And Jockey to Genny he proved a favu Loon , Here's a Health in full Bowls to the Man in the Moon . II There was a Young Damsel both Bonny and Brown , If I live to grow Old for I find I grown down , Fourpence halfpenny Farthing . A Tailors no man , Now there was and Old Prince and his name was K. J ohn I would have a Figgary but where is my Wife , A dish of good meat is the stay of men life . III . There was a Blind Beggar that long Lost his sighed , Fairest Cynthia the Beauty was Strephon is delight , Now a Coach cannot pass in the street for a Carr , For Pegy is gone over Sea with a Soldier ; Let us go from the Temple away to the Bed , I will tell you I have a Colts Tooth in my Head. IV. I am a stout Pavior and Stones I can lay , Now arise my dear Cloris it's all abroad day , Now I am a Maid and a very good Maid , Pray remember last Winter I learned you your Trade : And how vain are the sordid Intrigues of the Town , Pretty Nancy will never take less than a Crown . V. The Merry-Gold opens and spreads with the Sun , I'm am Married good People and yet I'm undone ; True Blue will never stain , let the Bottles go round , O the Arrows of Cupid fair Phillis did wound ; Young Gallants will Tipple , nay , Hector and Swear , Pretty Sue was catched Naping , as Moss catched his Mare . VI . There was a Bold Keeper that Chased the Deer , The Person he Kisses Young Nancy we hear : Sweet Katy of Windfor she Rid to the Mill , My thing is mine own and I'll keep it so still ; This is my dearest Love how do you like of her hoe , Wipping Tom is a coming fair Sillo my Foe . VII . The Pudding and Dumpling is burned to the Pot , Pretty Nancey I'll treat thee and pay the whole shot , Here is Silver and Gold the tother thing too , Precious Bells' I and Curril sweet Ladys for you ; Therefore buy my fine Fancies , o buy them up soon , That I may fell all my New Songs a ver boon . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . A NEW Merry Medley . Containing a Fit of Innocent Mirth in Melancholy Times , together with a Health to the M an in the Moon . Tune of , Found Boy . Licensed according to Order . I . HEre is a New Medley of Pastime enough , My Grand Mother was and Old wife in a Ruff , I will go to the Captain and fallen on my Knees , Shon ap Morgan loves Leeks and hur good toasted sheese , And Jockey to Genny he proved a favu Loon , Here's a Health in full Bowls to the Man in the Moon . II There was a Young Damsel both Bonny and Brown , If I live to grow Old for I find I grown down , Fourpence halfpenny Farthing . A Tailors no man , Now there was and Old Prince and his name was K. J ohn I would have a Figgary but where is my Wife , A dish of good meat is the stay of men life . III . There was a Blind Beggar that long Lost his sighed , Fairest Cynthia the Beauty was Strephon is delight , Now a Coach cannot pass in the street for a Carr , For Pegy is gone over Sea with a Soldier ; Let us go from the Temple away to the Bed , I will tell you I have a Colts Tooth in my Head. IV. I am a stout Pavior and Stones I can lay , Now arise my dear Cloris it's all abroad day , Now I am a Maid and a very good Maid , Pray remember last Winter I learned you your Trade : And how vain are the sordid Intrigues of the Town , Pretty Nancy will never take less than a Crown . V. The Merry-Gold opens and spreads with the Sun , I'm am Married good People and yet I'm undone ; True Blue will never stain , let the Bottles go round , O the Arrows of Cupid fair Phillis did wound ; Young Gallants will Tipple , nay , Hector and Swear , Pretty Sue was catched Naping , as Moss catched his Mare . VI . There was a Bold Keeper that Chased the Deer , The Person he Kisses Young Nancy we hear : Sweet Katy of Windfor she Rid to the Mill , My thing is mine own and I'll keep it so still ; This is my dearest Love how do you like of her hoe , Wipping Tom is a coming fair Sillo my Foe . VII . The Pudding and Dumpling is burned to the Pot , Pretty Nancey I'll treat thee and pay the whole shot , Here is Silver and Gold the tother thing too , Precious Bells' I and Curril sweet Ladys for you ; Therefore buy my fine Fancies , o buy them up soon , That I may fell all my New Songs a ver boon . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 