A NEW Merry Medley Containing a Fit of Innocent mirth in melancholy TO imes : TO ogether , with a Health to the man in the Moon . TO une of , Found Boy , Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) HEre is a New Medley of pastime enough . My Grand mother was and Old wife in a Ruff , I will go to the Captain and fallen on my Knees , Shon ap Morgan loves Leeks and her good toasted sheese , And Jockey to Genny he proved a saw Loon , H ere's a H ealth in full Bowls to the M an in the Moon . ( 2 ) There was a young Damsel both Boony and B rown , If I live to grow Old for I find I grow down , Fourpence halfpenny Farthing . A Tailors no man , Now there was and Old Prince and his name was K. John , I would have a Figgary but where is my Wife , A dish of good meat is the stay of men life . ( 3 ) There was a Blind Beggar that long lost his sighed , Fairest Synthia the beauty was Strephon ' s delight , Now a Coach cannot pass in the street for a Carr , F or Peggy ' s gone over Sea with a Soldier ; Let us go from the Temple away to the Bed , I will tell you I have a Colts Tooth in my H ead . ( 4 ) I am a stout Pavior and Stones I can lay , Now arise my dear Cloris it's all abroad day , Now I am a M aid and a very good M aid , Pray remember last Winter I learned you your Trade : A and how vain are the sordid Intrigues of the Town , Pretty Nancy will never take less than a Crown , ( 5 ) The M erry-Gold opens and spreads with the Sun , I am M arryed good People and yet I'm undone ; TO rue Blue will near stain , let the Bottles go round , O the A rrows of Cupid fair Phillis did wound ; Young Gallants will TO ipple , nay , H ector and S wear , Pretty Sue was catched Napin , as Mass catched his Mare . ( 6 ) TO here was a bold Keeper that Chased the Deer TO he Parson he Kisses Young Nancy we hear : Sweet Katy of Windsor she Rid to the Mill , M y thing is my own and I'll keep it so still ; TO his is my dearest Love how do you like of her hoe , Whipping Tom is a coming fair Sillo my Foe . ( 7 ) The Pudding and Dumpling is burned to the Pot , Pretty Nancy I'll treat thee and pay the whole shot , H ere is Silver and Gold the tother thing too , P recious Bells' and a C urril sweet Ladys for you ; Therefore buy my fine Fancies , o buy them up soon , That I may fell all my New Songs a ver boon . P rinted for P. Brooksby , at the Golden ball in py [ e ] - corner . A NEW Merry Medley Containing a Fit of Innocent mirth in melancholy TO imes : TO ogether , with a Health to the man in the Moon . TO une of , Found Boy , Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) HEre is a New Medley of pastime enough . My Grand mother was and Old wife in a Ruff , I will go to the Captain and fallen on my Knees , Shon ap Morgan loves Leeks and her good toasted sheese , And Jockey to Genny he proved a saw Loon , H ere's a H ealth in full Bowls to the M an in the Moon . ( 2 ) There was a young Damsel both Boony and B rown , If I live to grow Old for I find I grow down , Fourpence halfpenny Farthing . A Tailors no man , Now there was and Old Prince and his name was K. John , I would have a Figgary but where is my Wife , A dish of good meat is the stay of men life . ( 3 ) There was a Blind Beggar that long lost his sighed , Fairest Synthia the beauty was Strephon ' s delight , Now a Coach cannot pass in the street for a Carr , F or Peggy ' s gone over Sea with a Soldier ; Let us go from the Temple away to the Bed , I will tell you I have a Colts Tooth in my H ead . ( 4 ) I am a stout Pavior and Stones I can lay , Now arise my dear Cloris it's all abroad day , Now I am a M aid and a very good M aid , Pray remember last Winter I learned you your Trade : A and how vain are the sordid Intrigues of the Town , Pretty Nancy will never take less than a Crown , ( 5 ) The M erry-Gold opens and spreads with the Sun , I am M arryed good People and yet I'm undone ; TO rue Blue will near stain , let the Bottles go round , O the A rrows of Cupid fair Phillis did wound ; Young Gallants will TO ipple , nay , H ector and S wear , Pretty Sue was catched Napin , as Mass catched his Mare . ( 6 ) TO here was a bold Keeper that Chased the Deer TO he Parson he Kisses Young Nancy we hear : Sweet Katy of Windsor she Rid to the Mill , M y thing is my own and I'll keep it so still ; TO his is my dearest Love how do you like of her hoe , Whipping Tom is a coming fair Sillo my Foe . ( 7 ) The Pudding and Dumpling is burned to the Pot , Pretty Nancy I'll treat thee and pay the whole shot , H ere is Silver and Gold the tother thing too , P recious Bells' and a C urril sweet Ladys for you ; Therefore buy my fine Fancies , o buy them up soon , That I may fell all my New Songs a ver boon . P rinted for P. Brooksby , at the Golden ball in py [ e ] - corner . 