STATE and AMBITION A New SONG AT THE DUKES THEATRE . I. STate and Ambition alas will deceive you , there's no solid joy but the blessing of love , Scorn does of pleasure fair Silvia bereave you , your fame is not perfect till that you remove , Monarchs that sway the vast Globe in their glory , now love is their brightest jewel of power , Poor Strephons heart was ordained to adore you ah ! then disdain his passion no more . II Jove in his Throne was the victim of Beauty , his thunder laid by he from Heaven came down , Shaped like a Swan to fair Leda paid duty , and prized her far more then his heavenly crown She too was pleased with her beautiful lover , she stroked his fair plumes and she feasted her eyes And he too in loving knew well how to move her by billing begins the business of joys . III . Since Divine powers examples hath given , if we do not follow their precepts we sin , Sure it'll appear and affront to the Heaven , if when the Gates open we enter not in : Beauty my dearest was from the beginning , ordained to cool men amorous rage , And she that against this decree will be sinning . in Spring she will find the Winter of age . IV. Think on the pleasure while loves in it's glory , let not your scorn loves great Altar disgrace , TO he time it will come when no Swain will adore you , or smooth the least wrinkle age lays on your face : Then hast to enjoyment while love is fresh blooming and I in my height and vigor of day , Each minute we lose , our pleasures consuming , and seven years to come will not one passed repay . V. Think my dear Silvia the Heavenly blessing , of loving in youth is the crown of our days , Short are the hours where love is possessing , but tedious the minutes when crossed with delays : L ove's the soft Anvil where Nature's agreeing , all mankind are formed and by it they move , It's thence my dear Silvia and I have our being , the Cesar and Swain spring from almighty love . VI . I see my near Silvia at last has consented , that blush in your Cheeks does plainly appear , And nought but delays shall be ever repented , so faithful i'll prove , and so true to my dear , Then Hymen prepare and light all thy Torches , perfume thy head Altar and strew all the way , By little degrees love makes his approaches , but revels at night for the loss of the day . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . STATE and AMBITION A New SONG AT THE DUKES THEATRE . I. STate and Ambition alas will deceive you , there's no solid joy but the blessing of love , Scorn does of pleasure fair Silvia bereave you , your fame is not perfect till that you remove , Monarchs that sway the vast Globe in their glory , now love is their brightest jewel of power , Poor Strephons heart was ordained to adore you ah ! then disdain his passion no more . II Jove in his Throne was the victim of Beauty , his thunder laid by he from Heaven came down , Shaped like a Swan to fair Leda paid duty , and prized her far more then his heavenly crown She too was pleased with her beautiful lover , she stroked his fair plumes and she feasted her eyes And he too in loving knew well how to move her by billing begins the business of joys . III . Since Divine powers examples hath given , if we do not follow their precepts we sin , Sure it'll appear and affront to the Heaven , if when the Gates open we enter not in : Beauty my dearest was from the beginning , ordained to cool men amorous rage , And she that against this decree will be sinning . in Spring she will find the Winter of age . IV. Think on the pleasure while loves in it's glory , let not your scorn loves great Altar disgrace , TO he time it will come when no Swain will adore you , or smooth the least wrinkle age lays on your face : Then hast to enjoyment while love is fresh blooming and I in my height and vigor of day , Each minute we lose , our pleasures consuming , and seven years to come will not one passed repay . V. Think my dear Silvia the Heavenly blessing , of loving in youth is the crown of our days , Short are the hours where love is possessing , but tedious the minutes when crossed with delays : L ove's the soft Anvil where Nature's agreeing , all mankind are formed and by it they move , It's thence my dear Silvia and I have our being , the Cesar and Swain spring from almighty love . VI . I see my near Silvia at last has consented , that blush in your Cheeks does plainly appear , And nought but delays shall be ever repented , so faithful i'll prove , and so true to my dear , Then Hymen prepare and light all thy Torches , perfume thy head Altar and strew all the way , By little degrees love makes his approaches , but revels at night for the loss of the day . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 