And Excellent New Copy of Verses On John Foster , Who was Tried for stealing A Magpie and Cage . Tune of Mary Live long . Licensed according to Order . IN new Brandford late Some Rogue , as he passed by , Spied a Cage and a Magpie , At a Gentleman's Gate , And took it away ; When they missed Cage and Pie , They made search narrowly , Till they found the Bird out ; For about the poor Magpie , For about the poor Magpie There was a great Rout. To the Justice they sent , And a Warrant in haste Sir , Was granted for Foster , To whom they strait went , The same for to serve ; And the Constable too , His Duty did doe , And took Foster strait , For stealing a Magpie , For stealing a Magpie From the Gentleman's Gate . They had him indeed Before a Justice to Answer , For what he had done Sir , Who his Mittimus made , And to Prison him sent ; For three Weeks or more , With Want , and Bones soar , He in Newgate did lie , Till cleared at the Sessions , Till cleared at the Sessions ; All for a Magpie . When Sessions began , He came to be Tried , Not Guilty he cried . The Jury each one Did hear out the Cause ; The Witnesses Sworn , Was herd every one , But could not justify , That Foster did steal both , That Foster did steal both The Cage and Magpie . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1693. And Excellent New Copy of Verses On John Foster , Who was Tried for stealing A Magpie and Cage . Tune of Mary Live long . Licensed according to Order . IN new Brandford late Some Rogue , as he passed by , Spied a Cage and a Magpie , At a Gentleman's Gate , And took it away ; When they missed Cage and Pie , They made search narrowly , Till they found the Bird out ; For about the poor Magpie , For about the poor Magpie There was a great Rout. To the Justice they sent , And a Warrant in haste Sir , Was granted for Foster , To whom they strait went , The same for to serve ; And the Constable too , His Duty did doe , And took Foster strait , For stealing a Magpie , For stealing a Magpie From the Gentleman's Gate . They had him indeed Before a Justice to Answer , For what he had done Sir , Who his Mittimus made , And to Prison him sent ; For three Weeks or more , With Want , and Bones soar , He in Newgate did lie , Till cleared at the Sessions , Till cleared at the Sessions ; All for a Magpie . When Sessions began , He came to be Tried , Not Guilty he cried . The Jury each one Did hear out the Cause ; The Witnesses Sworn , Was herd every one , But could not justify , That Foster did steal both , That Foster did steal both The Cage and Magpie . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1693. 