Great NEWS from SOUTHWARK : OR , THE Old Woman's Legacy to her Cat : Giving and Account of and old miserable Woman , who lately kept a blind Alehouse , in Tooley street , near the Burrough of Southwark ; who was so wretch - lie Covetous , as to deny herself the common Benefits of Life , as to Meat and Clothes ; leaving at her Death , about eighteen hundred Pounds to her CAT ; using to say often , when the CAT mewed , Peace PUSS , peace ; thou shalt have all , when I am Dead . To the Tune of , The Bleeding Heart , etc IN Southwark there did lately dwell , A rich old Woman , noted well : And Ale-house-keeper by her trade ; She lived alone , and had no maid . For very poor she seemed to be , And was maintained by Charity , Her Family was very small , A Cat she kept , and that was all . No food herself she would afford , But what came from her Neighbour's board : But for her Cat , she meat would buy , And feed her ; ay! most daintily . She lived so close , and fared so hard , That she herself had well nigh starved : No cloth's or victuals would she buy , But feet her Cat most daintily . She heaped up her bags in store , And pinched her guts , to lay up more : Though she as lean as rak , did grow , Her Cat was plump as any doe . Her belly-money up she laid , Until and handsome sum it made : Her guttage-money it was found To be nigh eighteen hundred pound . For Death at length began to creep , And rock the rich old Crone asleep ; Asleep she lay , to Death confined , And left her Cat , and wealth , behind . A day or two , did scarcely pass , When by her Neighbours missed she was : Who marveled greatly , that she stayed , And came not for her daily bred . Among the rest , one went to see , What the occasion there might be : But when that he came in the house , He found all still , as any mouse . Up stairs he went , and in the bed He found the rich old Woman dead : And looking in a trunk just by , Near eighteen hundred pounds did lie . No sooner he had found the hoard , But he divulged it all abroad : Then flocked the Neighbours , to behold The treasured bags of coined gold . Thus did he cheat and baffle such , As thought her poor , for she was rich : Her belly saved it for her Cat , But Puss must show the Will for that . LONDON : Printed for James Reu_d_ , 1695. Great NEWS from SOUTHWARK : OR , THE Old Woman's Legacy to her Cat : Giving and Account of and old miserable Woman , who lately kept a blind Alehouse , in Tooley street , near the Burrough of Southwark ; who was so wretch - lie Covetous , as to deny herself the common Benefits of Life , as to Meat and Clothes ; leaving at her Death , about eighteen hundred Pounds to her CAT ; using to say often , when the CAT mewed , Peace PUSS , peace ; thou shalt have all , when I am Dead . To the Tune of , The Bleeding Heart , etc IN Southwark there did lately dwell , A rich old Woman , noted well : And Ale-house-keeper by her trade ; She lived alone , and had no maid . For very poor she seemed to be , And was maintained by Charity , Her Family was very small , A Cat she kept , and that was all . No food herself she would afford , But what came from her Neighbour's board : But for her Cat , she meat would buy , And feed her ; ay! most daintily . She lived so close , and fared so hard , That she herself had well nigh starved : No cloth's or victuals would she buy , But feet her Cat most daintily . She heaped up her bags in store , And pinched her guts , to lay up more : Though she as lean as rak , did grow , Her Cat was plump as any doe . Her belly-money up she laid , Until and handsome sum it made : Her guttage-money it was found To be nigh eighteen hundred pound . For Death at length began to creep , And rock the rich old Crone asleep ; Asleep she lay , to Death confined , And left her Cat , and wealth , behind . A day or two , did scarcely pass , When by her Neighbours missed she was : Who marveled greatly , that she stayed , And came not for her daily bred . Among the rest , one went to see , What the occasion there might be : But when that he came in the house , He found all still , as any mouse . Up stairs he went , and in the bed He found the rich old Woman dead : And looking in a trunk just by , Near eighteen hundred pounds did lie . No sooner he had found the hoard , But he divulged it all abroad : Then flocked the Neighbours , to behold The treasured bags of coined gold . Thus did he cheat and baffle such , As thought her poor , for she was rich : Her belly saved it for her Cat , But Puss must show the Will for that . LONDON : Printed for James Reu_d_ , 1695. 