THE Farmers Wives Complaint Against the Ladys Comodes and Top-Knots . For hindering their Cows going a Bulling . Tu a New Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . I IN Somersetshire as it happened one day Down in a Meadow where my Cattle did play , While Colly took Bull there a Lady came by With Top Knots of Ribbons full six stories high . II You'd wonder to see how my Cow she did stare , And Bull at the Top Knots drew backward his ware , They frighted were both when this Lady came by , With Towers and Top Knots full six stories high . III I like not your Fashions , but if them you'll have , Come not on my Ground lest you ruin my Calves , For here is one spoiled by a Modish Lady , With Top Knots of Ribbons full six stories high . IV For when my Cow Calved on our Lady Day last , It grieved me to see my poor Calf when 'twas cast , For viewing it round , on it's head I did spy A Top Knot like Ribbons full half a yard high . V Pray Landlord I hope you will give your consent To lessen their Top Knots or Lessen our Rend , For if this be suffered your Tenants must fly Erom Top Knots of Rebbonds full six stories high . VI If not , for my own part , I vow and I swear , If any such Comoding Ladys appear , I'll tear all their Riggin as they do pass by With Towers and Top Knots full six stories high . VII For I will have all these fine Ladys to know They shan't bauk my Cows when to Bulling they go , Then let them consider and come not so nigh With Top Knots of Ribbons full six stories high . VII I know for their own parts when ere they approve Of a young Gallant to Embrace his kind Love , These Comoding Fashions they straightway [ s ] lay by , With Towers and Top Knots full six stories high . IX Let us a Petition draw up with consent , And humbly present it to the Parliament Against French Comodes which do daily pass by With Top Knots of Ribbons full six stories high . X If they will not our Petition adhere , We'll gainst all such Topknots declare open War , Then down we will pull them when ere we do spy Such Towers and Top Knots full six stories high . XI Now Ladys look to't , since you've frighted my Bull Nor can I have Calves without Towers as full As your Ladyships are , and likewise as high , With Topknots , like Ribbons full six stories high . XII My Calf unto London is sent to the Queen ; And when Her Majesty this strange Sighed has seen , Then near to the Tower my Calf you may spy , With Topknots like Ribbons full six stories high . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . THE Farmers Wives Complaint Against the Ladys Comodes and Top-Knots . For hindering their Cows going a Bulling . Tu a New Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . I IN Somersetshire as it happened one day Down in a Meadow where my Cattle did play , While Colly took Bull there a Lady came by With Top Knots of Ribbons full six stories high . II You'd wonder to see how my Cow she did stare , And Bull at the Top Knots drew backward his ware , They frighted were both when this Lady came by , With Towers and Top Knots full six stories high . III I like not your Fashions , but if them you'll have , Come not on my Ground lest you ruin my Calves , For here is one spoiled by a Modish Lady , With Top Knots of Ribbons full six stories high . IV For when my Cow Calved on our Lady Day last , It grieved me to see my poor Calf when 'twas cast , For viewing it round , on it's head I did spy A Top Knot like Ribbons full half a yard high . V Pray Landlord I hope you will give your consent To lessen their Top Knots or Lessen our Rend , For if this be suffered your Tenants must fly Erom Top Knots of Rebbonds full six stories high . VI If not , for my own part , I vow and I swear , If any such Comoding Ladys appear , I'll tear all their Riggin as they do pass by With Towers and Top Knots full six stories high . VII For I will have all these fine Ladys to know They shan't bauk my Cows when to Bulling they go , Then let them consider and come not so nigh With Top Knots of Ribbons full six stories high . VII I know for their own parts when ere they approve Of a young Gallant to Embrace his kind Love , These Comoding Fashions they straightway [ s ] lay by , With Towers and Top Knots full six stories high . IX Let us a Petition draw up with consent , And humbly present it to the Parliament Against French Comodes which do daily pass by With Top Knots of Ribbons full six stories high . X If they will not our Petition adhere , We'll gainst all such Topknots declare open War , Then down we will pull them when ere we do spy Such Towers and Top Knots full six stories high . XI Now Ladys look to't , since you've frighted my Bull Nor can I have Calves without Towers as full As your Ladyships are , and likewise as high , With Topknots , like Ribbons full six stories high . XII My Calf unto London is sent to the Queen ; And when Her Majesty this strange Sighed has seen , Then near to the Tower my Calf you may spy , With Topknots like Ribbons full six stories high . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 