The Seven Merry WIVES OF LONDON : OR The GOSSIPS Complaint AGAINST Their HUSBANDS , For their Neglect , As they met together in a Tavern , over half a dozen Bottles of Canary . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Licensed according to Order . THere's seven young Wives met together of late , In a Tavern , not far from the Bell-savage-gate , Where they called for the best of Canary with speed , And in pleasant Discourse they began to proceed : Quoth the Water'man's Wife , I must drink and then run , For a Woman's work , Sisters , you know is never done . I wash to the Temple and next Inns of Court , And the lively young Lawyers , they yield pretty sport , When I go to their Chambers each morning or night , Then my Heart is transported with joy and delight : When the pleasure is over , dear Sisters , I run , For at home , I must tell you , my work is never done . The Shoemaker's Wife filled a bowl to the brim , Crying out , Here's a Bumper , sweet Sisters , to him That is able to please a young Wife to the heart , But alas , to my sorrow , the truth I'll impart ; I'm afraid I shall never have a Daughter or Son ; Though I labour a Woman's work never is done . My Husband is lusty , young , proper , and tall , Yet I think that he has but a short Peging-aul , Which does nothing to purpose , dear Friends , as I live All the shoes in my shop I would willingly give To enjoy a young beautiful Daughter or Son But my work I must tell is never well done . The Pewterer's Wife then spoke up with a grace , Loving Sister , believe me , I pity thy case , There is no greater grief in the World I declare Then to have a dull Soul , for I solemnly swear Seven Years I've been foolishly baffled with one ; For my work , loving Sisters , is never well done . A Man of much mettle I took him to be , Or else , faith , he had never been married to me , But alas , to my sorrow , I find I am fooled , For he'll seldom cast into the mould that he should ; Which has caused my eyes like fair fountains to run , For to that [ i ] nk that my work it was never well done . A Surgeon's Wife then immediately swore , That she now had been married a Twelvemonth and more Yet he never had entered nor found the right Vein , Therefore surely , said she , I have cause to complain : If he don't mend his manners , astray I shall run ; For it's fit that a Woman's work should be well done . The Wife of a Fiddler , cried , Hear me I pray , My unnatural Husband he seldom will play His kind Wife a sweet Lesson , but once in a Moon , He complains that his Fiddle is still out of Tune : If he don't mend his manners , astray I shall run , For you know that a Woman's work must be well done . The Wife of a Pavior , cried out it was true , And I have as much reason as any of you To complain of my Pavier , who has but one Stone , And beside , the worst Rammer as ever was known : To a Neighbour for help I am forced to run , Eor you know that a Woman's work must be well done . The Wife of a young Vulcan she took off her bowl , And declared that her Husband he was a boon Soul , She had no kind of cause to complain of these wrongs , For he followed his labour with hammer and tongue's , Having five or six Daughters beside a young Son ; Therefore truly her work had been very well done . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridgeThe Seven Merry WIVES OF LONDON : OR The GOSSIPS Complaint AGAINST Their HUSBANDS , For their Neglect , As they met together in a Tavern , over half a dozen Bottles of Canary . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Licensed according to Order . THere's seven young Wives met together of late , In a Tavern , not far from the Bell-savage-gate , Where they called for the best of Canary with speed , And in pleasant Discourse they began to proceed : Quoth the Water'man's Wife , I must drink and then run , For a Woman's work , Sisters , you know is never done . I wash to the Temple and next Inns of Court , And the lively young Lawyers , they yield pretty sport , When I go to their Chambers each morning or night , Then my Heart is transported with joy and delight : When the pleasure is over , dear Sisters , I run , For at home , I must tell you , my work is never done . The Shoemaker's Wife filled a bowl to the brim , Crying out , Here's a Bumper , sweet Sisters , to him That is able to please a young Wife to the heart , But alas , to my sorrow , the truth I'll impart ; I'm afraid I shall never have a Daughter or Son ; Though I labour a Woman's work never is done . My Husband is lusty , young , proper , and tall , Yet I think that he has but a short Peging-aul , Which does nothing to purpose , dear Friends , as I live All the shoes in my shop I would willingly give To enjoy a young beautiful Daughter or Son But my work I must tell is never well done . The Pewterer's Wife then spoke up with a grace , Loving Sister , believe me , I pity thy case , There is no greater grief in the World I declare Then to have a dull Soul , for I solemnly swear Seven Years I've been foolishly baffled with one ; For my work , loving Sisters , is never well done . A Man of much mettle I took him to be , Or else , faith , he had never been married to me , But alas , to my sorrow , I find I am fooled , For he'll seldom cast into the mould that he should ; Which has caused my eyes like fair fountains to run , For to that [ i ] nk that my work it was never well done . A Surgeon's Wife then immediately swore , That she now had been married a Twelvemonth and more Yet he never had entered nor found the right Vein , Therefore surely , said she , I have cause to complain : If he don't mend his manners , astray I shall run ; For it's fit that a Woman's work should be well done . The Wife of a Fiddler , cried , Hear me I pray , My unnatural Husband he seldom will play His kind Wife a sweet Lesson , but once in a Moon , He complains that his Fiddle is still out of Tune : If he don't mend his manners , astray I shall run , For you know that a Woman's work must be well done . The Wife of a Pavior , cried out it was true , And I have as much reason as any of you To complain of my Pavier , who has but one Stone , And beside , the worst Rammer as ever was known : To a Neighbour for help I am forced to run , Eor you know that a Woman's work must be well done . The Wife of a young Vulcan she took off her bowl , And declared that her Husband he was a boon Soul , She had no kind of cause to complain of these wrongs , For he followed his labour with hammer and tongue's , Having five or six Daughters beside a young Son ; Therefore truly her work had been very well done . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge 