The United LOVERS , OR , THE Poet's Opinion , CONCERNING The Male and Female-Sex : BEING A new Song lately Sing in the Theatre . To a pleasant new Tune . Licensed according to Order . MAn , Man , Man is for the Woman made , And the Woman made for Man , As the Spur is for the Jade , As the Scabbard's for the Blade , As for Digging is the Spade , As for Liquours is the Can : So Man , Man , Man is for the Woman made , And the Woman made for Man . As the Scepter's to be swayed , As for Night's the Saranade , As for Pudding is the Pan , And to cool us is the Fan : So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc Be she Widow , Wife , or Maid , Be she wanton , be she stayed , Be she well or ill arrayed , Whore , or Bawd , or Harradan : Yet Man , Man , Man is for the Woman made , And the Woman made for Man . Wind , Wind , Wind is for the swelling Sails , And the Sails are for the Wind , To receive the pleasant Gales , As the Lasses do in Wales , When they spread their wanton Tails , Mincing Jenny , Sue or Nan : So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc As the Glove is for the Hand , As the Blow is for the Land , To improve what ever they can , As for Cattle is the Bran , So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc Be she Rich , be she Poor , Modest , or a wanton Whore , Nature's very Common-shore , Who can Hector , Curse , and Ban : Yet Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc Joy , Joy , Joy is for the blushing Bride , And the Bride she is for Joy , And as the little Fish glide , In the silver flowing Tide , She covets all she can : So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc As the Pen is for to write , As the Raper is to fight , As the Captain leads the van , When he brings the Battle and : So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc Though she be swarthy , brown , or fair , Nay though her Garments are so bore , That she has not a Smock to wear , Nor Petticoat to put it on : Yet Man , Man , Man is for the Woman made , And the Woman made for Man. Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . The United LOVERS , OR , THE Poet's Opinion , CONCERNING The Male and Female-Sex : BEING A new Song lately Sing in the Theatre . To a pleasant new Tune . Licensed according to Order . MAn , Man , Man is for the Woman made , And the Woman made for Man , As the Spur is for the Jade , As the Scabbard's for the Blade , As for Digging is the Spade , As for Liquours is the Can : So Man , Man , Man is for the Woman made , And the Woman made for Man . As the Scepter's to be swayed , As for Night's the Saranade , As for Pudding is the Pan , And to cool us is the Fan : So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc Be she Widow , Wife , or Maid , Be she wanton , be she stayed , Be she well or ill arrayed , Whore , or Bawd , or Harradan : Yet Man , Man , Man is for the Woman made , And the Woman made for Man . Wind , Wind , Wind is for the swelling Sails , And the Sails are for the Wind , To receive the pleasant Gales , As the Lasses do in Wales , When they spread their wanton Tails , Mincing Jenny , Sue or Nan : So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc As the Glove is for the Hand , As the Blow is for the Land , To improve what ever they can , As for Cattle is the Bran , So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc Be she Rich , be she Poor , Modest , or a wanton Whore , Nature's very Common-shore , Who can Hector , Curse , and Ban : Yet Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc Joy , Joy , Joy is for the blushing Bride , And the Bride she is for Joy , And as the little Fish glide , In the silver flowing Tide , She covets all she can : So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc As the Pen is for to write , As the Raper is to fight , As the Captain leads the van , When he brings the Battle and : So Man , Man , etc And the Woman , etc Though she be swarthy , brown , or fair , Nay though her Garments are so bore , That she has not a Smock to wear , Nor Petticoat to put it on : Yet Man , Man , Man is for the Woman made , And the Woman made for Man. Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . 