And Excellant Mew SONG [ Called ] , THE Quakers Lamentation FOR The loss of his Ding-Dangs . Tune of The Old Man's Wish . With Allowance DEar Friends behold a Brother most sad , For losing my Ding Dangs makes me mad , Jealousy had liked to cost me Life , O that I never had known a Wife . When a Sister once my Wife had been , I thought she'd had the Light within , But instead thereof I had a hard Fate , For Horns I feared was on my Pate . O what a hard Case it is indeed , When Two of the Spirit chance to Wed ; Then One to fallen off and embrace the Flesh , Is not this a most piteous Case . This run in my Head and vexed me soar , Poor Quaker was never so served before ; For Ease of my Mind not making of Moan , Without more ado I whipped off my S ---- [ ? ] , 'Twas a Razor gave the Fatal Stroke , Now what will Jenny do for a Cloak , Do for a Cloak when her Belly does swell , By Yea and by Nay I cannot tell . If Jenny shall have any Children now , The Case will be plain which way and how , For what I can do she may lie alone , No good she can have the Virtue is gone . But that which Troubles me most of all , My Ding-Dangs now I cannot recall , I cannot recall the Pleasure again , Which oft times I have had with them . Nay more then that I dare not go out , For the Wicked they do [ ? ] ear and Flout , They call me Fumbling Quaker withal , And Swear I can do nothing at all . When to the Meeting-House I am god , Though a Spiritual Place I'll tell thee what , The Sanctified Si [ stt ] ers stare in my Face , Then Smile at each other with Disgrace . I cannot Converse with Women Kind , But streightways they declare their mind , And say that I am not fit to Live , For Cuting off that my Wife should have . O that I had my Tools again , Though a Cuckold I was never so plain ; If the Wicked has the thing not done , The Child may be a hopeful Son. Now Jenny I do Grieve full soar , To think that I shall never do more ; If to Live without thou must be Sick , Pray let a Brother do the Trick . Now to the Brethron of the North , I mean those that use the Bull and Mouth , Doubt Cut off your Tools as I have done . Yowl hang your selves when they are gone . The Sisters too I do advice , In all your Breathings to be Wise , Near let your Mates know what you do , lest Whipping Work falls on them to . London , P rinted and Sold by T. More , 1692. And Excellant Mew SONG [ Called ] , THE Quakers Lamentation FOR The loss of his Ding-Dangs . Tune of The Old Man's Wish . With Allowance DEar Friends behold a Brother most sad , For losing my Ding Dangs makes me mad , Jealousy had liked to cost me Life , O that I never had known a Wife . When a Sister once my Wife had been , I thought she'd had the Light within , But instead thereof I had a hard Fate , For Horns I feared was on my Pate . O what a hard Case it is indeed , When Two of the Spirit chance to Wed ; Then One to fallen off and embrace the Flesh , Is not this a most piteous Case . This run in my Head and vexed me soar , Poor Quaker was never so served before ; For Ease of my Mind not making of Moan , Without more ado I whipped off my S ---- [ ? ] , 'Twas a Razor gave the Fatal Stroke , Now what will Jenny do for a Cloak , Do for a Cloak when her Belly does swell , By Yea and by Nay I cannot tell . If Jenny shall have any Children now , The Case will be plain which way and how , For what I can do she may lie alone , No good she can have the Virtue is gone . But that which Troubles me most of all , My Ding-Dangs now I cannot recall , I cannot recall the Pleasure again , Which oft times I have had with them . Nay more then that I dare not go out , For the Wicked they do [ ? ] ear and Flout , They call me Fumbling Quaker withal , And Swear I can do nothing at all . When to the Meeting-House I am god , Though a Spiritual Place I'll tell thee what , The Sanctified Si [ stt ] ers stare in my Face , Then Smile at each other with Disgrace . I cannot Converse with Women Kind , But streightways they declare their mind , And say that I am not fit to Live , For Cuting off that my Wife should have . O that I had my Tools again , Though a Cuckold I was never so plain ; If the Wicked has the thing not done , The Child may be a hopeful Son. Now Jenny I do Grieve full soar , To think that I shall never do more ; If to Live without thou must be Sick , Pray let a Brother do the Trick . Now to the Brethron of the North , I mean those that use the Bull and Mouth , Doubt Cut off your Tools as I have done . Yowl hang your selves when they are gone . The Sisters too I do advice , In all your Breathings to be Wise , Near let your Mates know what you do , lest Whipping Work falls on them to . London , P rinted and Sold by T. More , 1692. 