And Excellent New SONG , CALLED , Rare News for the Female Sex , OR , Good Luck at last . Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . AS I of late was walking by a Country Bakers door I herd some Women talking , near 27 or more , Then one among the rest , crying , now I do protest , Of all the news I ever herd I think this is the best , I longed to hear what this good news might be , She scarce could speak for laughing , but at the last quod she , Come Maids be of good cheer , for joyful News I hear . Now ery Lass that means to pass must all be punchd this year . O this is joyful News said the Bakers daughter Nan , Though fifteen years I've lived yet never any Man Would be so kind to me as to punch me well said she , Or from the torment which I bear would ever set me free , For whats a greater Plague then a heavy Maidenhead And must I still endure it I'ld rather sure be dead , Since this good Neews I hear my heart is void of fear Nor friend nor foe shall say me no for I'll be punchd this Year . TO he Farmer's Daughter Joan stood moulding of her bred , Said she good NeighBour Nancy no more words to be said , You complain in 15 year of the torment which you bear , I'm almost 30 is't not dirty men should mock & amp ; jeer , And ask us when we'll marry , alas how do we know , When they are pleased to call us then we are free to go , And since this news I hear , I'll send to Dick my dear , And once again I'll tell him plain I must be punchd this Year . The Tailors daughter Betty cried its a burning shame Though I am young and pretty my sorrow is the same , My Father keeps Five Men , but what if he kept Ten , Such silly fools with pointless tools , can never punch me then Unto some lusty Farmer with speed I must repair , And tell to him the cause of my sorrow , grief , and care , Then he with merry cheer , will vanish all my fear And I as well as other Maids sure shall be punched this Year . Then in came lusty Sarah who lived at the Crown , Saying , I'm as brisk and airy as any lass in Town , My Friends was at great charge in breeding me so large : To pass away my youthful day d'ye think it don't me urg . I them Punchable it's known , my Marygold is blown , Come Soldier Sailor or a Taylor take me for your own , Let Mother draw the Beer , and Father in his Chair , For isle no longer draw their drink if i'm not punched this year . And said aged Gillian , though I am old and weak , Yet Neighbours I am willing a word or two to speak , My beauty is decayed by living long a Maid , And this I tell that Apes in Hell I must led I'm afraid Accept of my Petition and let me have a share , I them forced with submission my sorrow to declare , Then do not flout nor jear , for since this news I hear ; My maiden head will strike me dead if I'm not punched this year . The Baker's daughter Nancy and all the reft replied , What man alive can fancy to make of you a bride , And therefore pray forbear your sorrow to declare , Yet if there's any rusty Punch that we can freely spare , We'll see what we can do , and be a friend to you . I hope you will said she so my Neighbours all adieu , And thereupon each one departed and went home . With joint consent to be content now punching time is come . But one there was among them that they did think too young And as they all went dancing she likewise had her Song What though you flout at me [ cause ] that I am young you see F or all you hunch yet I'll be punched that currant I may be , For I am thirteen it is well known And why maint I good Sirs than be punched as well as Joan , I am resolved I say , that I'll not lose a day , But straight to John my Father's Man and be punched as well as they . London , Printed for C. Barnet . 1696. And Excellent New SONG , CALLED , Rare News for the Female Sex , OR , Good Luck at last . Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . AS I of late was walking by a Country Bakers door I herd some Women talking , near 27 or more , Then one among the rest , crying , now I do protest , Of all the news I ever herd I think this is the best , I longed to hear what this good news might be , She scarce could speak for laughing , but at the last quod she , Come Maids be of good cheer , for joyful News I hear . Now ery Lass that means to pass must all be punchd this year . O this is joyful News said the Bakers daughter Nan , Though fifteen years I've lived yet never any Man Would be so kind to me as to punch me well said she , Or from the torment which I bear would ever set me free , For whats a greater Plague then a heavy Maidenhead And must I still endure it I'ld rather sure be dead , Since this good Neews I hear my heart is void of fear Nor friend nor foe shall say me no for I'll be punchd this Year . TO he Farmer's Daughter Joan stood moulding of her bred , Said she good NeighBour Nancy no more words to be said , You complain in 15 year of the torment which you bear , I'm almost 30 is't not dirty men should mock & amp ; jeer , And ask us when we'll marry , alas how do we know , When they are pleased to call us then we are free to go , And since this news I hear , I'll send to Dick my dear , And once again I'll tell him plain I must be punchd this Year . The Tailors daughter Betty cried its a burning shame Though I am young and pretty my sorrow is the same , My Father keeps Five Men , but what if he kept Ten , Such silly fools with pointless tools , can never punch me then Unto some lusty Farmer with speed I must repair , And tell to him the cause of my sorrow , grief , and care , Then he with merry cheer , will vanish all my fear And I as well as other Maids sure shall be punched this Year . Then in came lusty Sarah who lived at the Crown , Saying , I'm as brisk and airy as any lass in Town , My Friends was at great charge in breeding me so large : To pass away my youthful day d'ye think it don't me urg . I them Punchable it's known , my Marygold is blown , Come Soldier Sailor or a Taylor take me for your own , Let Mother draw the Beer , and Father in his Chair , For isle no longer draw their drink if i'm not punched this year . And said aged Gillian , though I am old and weak , Yet Neighbours I am willing a word or two to speak , My beauty is decayed by living long a Maid , And this I tell that Apes in Hell I must led I'm afraid Accept of my Petition and let me have a share , I them forced with submission my sorrow to declare , Then do not flout nor jear , for since this news I hear ; My maiden head will strike me dead if I'm not punched this year . The Baker's daughter Nancy and all the reft replied , What man alive can fancy to make of you a bride , And therefore pray forbear your sorrow to declare , Yet if there's any rusty Punch that we can freely spare , We'll see what we can do , and be a friend to you . I hope you will said she so my Neighbours all adieu , And thereupon each one departed and went home . With joint consent to be content now punching time is come . But one there was among them that they did think too young And as they all went dancing she likewise had her Song What though you flout at me [ cause ] that I am young you see F or all you hunch yet I'll be punched that currant I may be , For I am thirteen it is well known And why maint I good Sirs than be punched as well as Joan , I am resolved I say , that I'll not lose a day , But straight to John my Father's Man and be punched as well as they . London , Printed for C. Barnet . 1696. 