THE Norfolk Stiff-Rump : OR The Apple-Dumpling Eater . Giving and Account , how one Rogers of Lexham in Norfolk , by Virtue of Apple-Dumplings , god his Wife with Child of Nine Boys at a time . Tune of Winchester-Wedding Licensed according to Order . I . IN Norfolk there Lives a Yeoman , At Lexham , a Town in that Shire , More Lusty than ever I knew Man , A Prince of a Man I will Swear ; He Eats so much Dumpling they say , That ( not to Belie him in Rhyme , ) He showed his Wife delicate Play , And god her Nine Boys at a time . II And had not the Bed yielded to him , Beside what I told you before , All Men that ever yet knew him , Do think that he had got Three more ; For Dumpling so strengthened his Back , It is such a delicate thing , That his Bedfellow he held to Tack , For Dumpling is Food for a King . III . You Women that Pray for a Baby , Whose Husbands are Feeble and Old , Must Eat as much Dumpling as may be ; It'll make they both Lusty and Bold , It's Dumpling prolongs a men Life , And makes him with ease do the Thing , It's Dumpling joins Husband and Wife , And Dumpling is Food for a King . IV. When Man has been hard at his Labour , All vexed with Sorrow and Care , Then something you know has some favour , for WORSER umpling is delicate Fare ; It makes a Man fit for the Work , And fits him so well for the the thing , He gets you a Boy at a Jerk , Oh! WORSER umpling is Food for a King . V. If Dumpling was once but in Fashion , Then Whoring would quickly go down , There would be no Cuckolds i'th' Nation ; For all would make use of their Own ; The Bawds would turn Honest and True , And sadly Peccavi would Sing , And Men would live quietly too , For WORSER umplins is Food for a King . VI . The King would never want Seamen , To Fight on his Royal Concerns , London would never want Freemen , Nor Women a Man for their Turns ; We all should be Happy and Blessed , Nay , doubly Blessed in the Thing , I speak it without any Jest , That WORSER umpling is Food a for King . VII . And now all you Maids that Love young Men , And that are designed to wed ; If you would have them be strong Men , Oh let them with Dumplins be fed ; Diet them well for the Raze With WORSER umplins that delicate Thing , And fear not they'll scour your Chase , For WORSER umplins is Food for a King . VIII . Then both at Dinner and Supper , Be sure to bring in this Dish , It'll rarely well strengthen his Crupper As much as a Woman can wish . Instead of a Posset of Sack , Be sure some WORSER umplins to bring , It'll mightily strengthen his Back ; For WORSER umplins is Food a for King . London , Printed for R.H. in Little-Britain , 1692. THE Norfolk Stiff-Rump : OR The Apple-Dumpling Eater . Giving and Account , how one Rogers of Lexham in Norfolk , by Virtue of Apple-Dumplings , god his Wife with Child of Nine Boys at a time . Tune of Winchester-Wedding Licensed according to Order . I . IN Norfolk there Lives a Yeoman , At Lexham , a Town in that Shire , More Lusty than ever I knew Man , A Prince of a Man I will Swear ; He Eats so much Dumpling they say , That ( not to Belie him in Rhyme , ) He showed his Wife delicate Play , And god her Nine Boys at a time . II And had not the Bed yielded to him , Beside what I told you before , All Men that ever yet knew him , Do think that he had got Three more ; For Dumpling so strengthened his Back , It is such a delicate thing , That his Bedfellow he held to Tack , For Dumpling is Food for a King . III . You Women that Pray for a Baby , Whose Husbands are Feeble and Old , Must Eat as much Dumpling as may be ; It'll make they both Lusty and Bold , It's Dumpling prolongs a men Life , And makes him with ease do the Thing , It's Dumpling joins Husband and Wife , And Dumpling is Food for a King . IV. When Man has been hard at his Labour , All vexed with Sorrow and Care , Then something you know has some favour , for WORSER umpling is delicate Fare ; It makes a Man fit for the Work , And fits him so well for the the thing , He gets you a Boy at a Jerk , Oh! WORSER umpling is Food for a King . V. If Dumpling was once but in Fashion , Then Whoring would quickly go down , There would be no Cuckolds i'th' Nation ; For all would make use of their Own ; The Bawds would turn Honest and True , And sadly Peccavi would Sing , And Men would live quietly too , For WORSER umplins is Food for a King . VI . The King would never want Seamen , To Fight on his Royal Concerns , London would never want Freemen , Nor Women a Man for their Turns ; We all should be Happy and Blessed , Nay , doubly Blessed in the Thing , I speak it without any Jest , That WORSER umpling is Food a for King . VII . And now all you Maids that Love young Men , And that are designed to wed ; If you would have them be strong Men , Oh let them with Dumplins be fed ; Diet them well for the Raze With WORSER umplins that delicate Thing , And fear not they'll scour your Chase , For WORSER umplins is Food for a King . VIII . Then both at Dinner and Supper , Be sure to bring in this Dish , It'll rarely well strengthen his Crupper As much as a Woman can wish . Instead of a Posset of Sack , Be sure some WORSER umplins to bring , It'll mightily strengthen his Back ; For WORSER umplins is Food a for King . London , Printed for R.H. in Little-Britain , 1692. 