The London Lottery : OR , Simple SUSAN , the Ambitious Damsel of Bishopsgate-street , Who pawned her Nightrail and Smock , with other Apparel , for raising Money , in hope's to gain the Lot of three thousand Pound , or two thousand five hunder'd at least ; with and Account of her Glory that ended in a Blank . To the Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion . ATtend to this Ditty , which fairly does treat Of a Damsel now living , near Bishopsgate-street , Who did lay her best Gown and her Smicket in pawn , With her Nigh-rail , and likewise her Ruffels of Lawn , For to raise Half-a piece , to put in for a Lot , Since she herd there was three thousand Pounds to be god . If I can obtain it , she often replied , I will leave off my Service , and near to Cheap-side Will go take me a Lodging , and led a sweet Life , Such a Portion will make me and Alderman's Wife . In my noble adventure good Fortune be kind , For the three thousand Pounds does run still in my mind . Am I not both youthful , strait , proper and tall ? Now when I have a swinging large Portion withal , I shall soon get a Husband , I make no great doubt , For the noise of my Money will be blazed about : Therefore when I recover the three thousand Pound , Then my Glory through London's fair Streets will abound . Then to and old Conjurer's straight she did go , For to learn whither she might obtain it or no ; Then a Shilling she gave him , there with a good will , And besought him to manage the best of his skill : For the three thousand Pounds she was willing to have , That she might be a Lady rich , gallant and brave . He told her the three thousand Pounds was ordained For another , and therefore could not be obtained ; But if two thousand Pounds and five hundred will do , Pretty Lass , I'll engage to secure it for you , If you can be contented with such a low Prize . Since the others disposed on , Sir , that must suffice . This said , to her Mistress she presently highed , Where she bid her with speed a new Servant provide , For she would be no longer a Drudge and a Slave , Being fully persuaded that now she should have Here a vast Sum of Money , both Silver and Gold , Many hundred Pounds more than her Apron could hold . Her Mistress , not knowing what run in her mind , She began to discourse her , in order to find What might be the just Reason that Susan would go ; 'Twas a folly to argue , for it must be so : Susan crying out still , I must bid you adieu , For I hope I'm a far better Woman than you . So far on the Fortune-man's words she relied , That she reckoned ever long she through London should ride In a Coach with six Horses and Footmen likewise ; Which was all to be gained by this rich Golden Prize : But at length came a Blank , which did pull her Pride down And she now is the Laughter and Scorn of the Town . Poor Susan is now in a sorrowful case , For her Clothes are in Pawn , aye , and she's out of Place ; And the rich guilded Coach , which so run in her mind , It is fled like I Cloud that's dispersed with the Wind. Now you Lasses of London , pray never presume , For the three thousand Pounds , lest her Lot be your doom . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The London Lottery : OR , Simple SUSAN , the Ambitious Damsel of Bishopsgate-street , Who pawned her Nightrail and Smock , with other Apparel , for raising Money , in hope's to gain the Lot of three thousand Pound , or two thousand five hunder'd at least ; with and Account of her Glory that ended in a Blank . To the Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion . ATtend to this Ditty , which fairly does treat Of a Damsel now living , near Bishopsgate-street , Who did lay her best Gown and her Smicket in pawn , With her Nigh-rail , and likewise her Ruffels of Lawn , For to raise Half-a piece , to put in for a Lot , Since she herd there was three thousand Pounds to be god . If I can obtain it , she often replied , I will leave off my Service , and near to Cheap-side Will go take me a Lodging , and led a sweet Life , Such a Portion will make me and Alderman's Wife . In my noble adventure good Fortune be kind , For the three thousand Pounds does run still in my mind . Am I not both youthful , strait , proper and tall ? Now when I have a swinging large Portion withal , I shall soon get a Husband , I make no great doubt , For the noise of my Money will be blazed about : Therefore when I recover the three thousand Pound , Then my Glory through London's fair Streets will abound . Then to and old Conjurer's straight she did go , For to learn whither she might obtain it or no ; Then a Shilling she gave him , there with a good will , And besought him to manage the best of his skill : For the three thousand Pounds she was willing to have , That she might be a Lady rich , gallant and brave . He told her the three thousand Pounds was ordained For another , and therefore could not be obtained ; But if two thousand Pounds and five hundred will do , Pretty Lass , I'll engage to secure it for you , If you can be contented with such a low Prize . Since the others disposed on , Sir , that must suffice . This said , to her Mistress she presently highed , Where she bid her with speed a new Servant provide , For she would be no longer a Drudge and a Slave , Being fully persuaded that now she should have Here a vast Sum of Money , both Silver and Gold , Many hundred Pounds more than her Apron could hold . Her Mistress , not knowing what run in her mind , She began to discourse her , in order to find What might be the just Reason that Susan would go ; 'Twas a folly to argue , for it must be so : Susan crying out still , I must bid you adieu , For I hope I'm a far better Woman than you . So far on the Fortune-man's words she relied , That she reckoned ever long she through London should ride In a Coach with six Horses and Footmen likewise ; Which was all to be gained by this rich Golden Prize : But at length came a Blank , which did pull her Pride down And she now is the Laughter and Scorn of the Town . Poor Susan is now in a sorrowful case , For her Clothes are in Pawn , aye , and she's out of Place ; And the rich guilded Coach , which so run in her mind , It is fled like I Cloud that's dispersed with the Wind. Now you Lasses of London , pray never presume , For the three thousand Pounds , lest her Lot be your doom . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 