Comical NEWS from BLOOMSBURY . THE FEMALE CAPTAIN : OR , THE Counterfeit Bridegroom : Giving a Full and True Relation how one Madam-Mary Plunket , alias , Williams ; a young Woman of eighteen Years of Age , who put on Man's Apparel , assumed the Name of Capt. Charles Fairfax , set up for a young Heir , courted a young Gentlewoman of Blooms - bury , and by the Consent of her Friends [ in hope's of Gain ] was married to her by a Jaco - bite Parson ; they being at the Charge of the Wedding Clothes , Ring , Dinner , etc Of her living with the young Woman a whole Month undiscovered , using a strange Instrument for Generation , with the strange manner of the Discovery by and old Woman of the Pretended Captain's Acquaintance ; how being taken up for a Cheat , and committed to the New Prison at Clearken-well , where she now remains . To the Tune of , Ladies of London . Licensed according to Order . COme all you frolicsome Jilts of the Town , whose Trade like yourselves is uncertain ; Since Whoring like other Professions goes down , I'll show you a new way to good Fortune : Cheer up your Hearts , to be merry prepare , excuse but a little Preamble , I'll sing you a Jest ( if you have not a care ) shall give you the Thorough-go-nimble : A Lady well skilled in Intrigues of the Town , reduced to a slender Condition ; Who lived by the Trade of , Shove-up and godown , which has so long time been in fashion ; But Money's so scarce and Taxes so great , poor Cully is grown unable To give half a Crown for a bit for his Cat , or to put up his Nag in the Stable . Resolving at last some new Measures to try to raise up her Fortune to Riches ; She lays her Profession and Petticoats by , and boldly she puts on the Breeches : Her Carriage so pleasing , and full of Air , her Talk so delightful and witty ; In Masculine Habit she now does appear as gay as Bean in the City . She takes Noble Lodgings , sets up for and Heir , and passed for the same of a certain ; She bates with Delusion her amorous Snare , desiring to hook in some Fortune . A cunning old Miser full of Design , being blessed with a pretty young Daughter , With whom our young Heir did his Project begin , and craftily managed the matter . The Father being eager to make up the Match , proposing a very good Portion Of Money and Plate ; which the miserly Wretch had god by his cursed Extorion : The Lovers themselves did quickly agree ; the Father was also consenting ; Expecting his Daughter a Lady should be ; and he without cause of repenting . The Day was declared to consummate the Match , with joy to the innocent Creature ; The Miser being greedy , and busy to catch so hopeful a Prize for his Daughter : The Father provided a plentiful Feast ; in Grandieur they went to be wedded ; The Portion was paid , but the cream of the Jest , was what they did when they were bedded . The Bridegroom had prudently god a Sheep's gut blowed up very stiff , as a Bladder ; But what he did with it , or whither 'twas put I'll leave you good Folks to consider : The innocent Bride no difference knew , and seemed to be greatly delighted ; But Lasses I warrant there's none among you that would be so cleverly cheated . This for a Month undiscovered passed on ; at last and old turbulet Woman , Made privy to the Project when first'twas begun , and knew the young Spouse to be no Man , One morning resolved to open the Jest , without any farther delaying , The Bed-claths she tossed , showed the Beard of the Beast , and Pulled off the Politic Play-Thing . Printed for J. Butcher , at the Sign of the Hartichoak , near Lude-gat [ e ] . Comical NEWS from BLOOMSBURY . THE FEMALE CAPTAIN : OR , THE Counterfeit Bridegroom : Giving a Full and True Relation how one Madam-Mary Plunket , alias , Williams ; a young Woman of eighteen Years of Age , who put on Man's Apparel , assumed the Name of Capt. Charles Fairfax , set up for a young Heir , courted a young Gentlewoman of Blooms - bury , and by the Consent of her Friends [ in hope's of Gain ] was married to her by a Jaco - bite Parson ; they being at the Charge of the Wedding Clothes , Ring , Dinner , etc Of her living with the young Woman a whole Month undiscovered , using a strange Instrument for Generation , with the strange manner of the Discovery by and old Woman of the Pretended Captain's Acquaintance ; how being taken up for a Cheat , and committed to the New Prison at Clearken-well , where she now remains . To the Tune of , Ladies of London . Licensed according to Order . COme all you frolicsome Jilts of the Town , whose Trade like yourselves is uncertain ; Since Whoring like other Professions goes down , I'll show you a new way to good Fortune : Cheer up your Hearts , to be merry prepare , excuse but a little Preamble , I'll sing you a Jest ( if you have not a care ) shall give you the Thorough-go-nimble : A Lady well skilled in Intrigues of the Town , reduced to a slender Condition ; Who lived by the Trade of , Shove-up and godown , which has so long time been in fashion ; But Money's so scarce and Taxes so great , poor Cully is grown unable To give half a Crown for a bit for his Cat , or to put up his Nag in the Stable . Resolving at last some new Measures to try to raise up her Fortune to Riches ; She lays her Profession and Petticoats by , and boldly she puts on the Breeches : Her Carriage so pleasing , and full of Air , her Talk so delightful and witty ; In Masculine Habit she now does appear as gay as Bean in the City . She takes Noble Lodgings , sets up for and Heir , and passed for the same of a certain ; She bates with Delusion her amorous Snare , desiring to hook in some Fortune . A cunning old Miser full of Design , being blessed with a pretty young Daughter , With whom our young Heir did his Project begin , and craftily managed the matter . The Father being eager to make up the Match , proposing a very good Portion Of Money and Plate ; which the miserly Wretch had god by his cursed Extorion : The Lovers themselves did quickly agree ; the Father was also consenting ; Expecting his Daughter a Lady should be ; and he without cause of repenting . The Day was declared to consummate the Match , with joy to the innocent Creature ; The Miser being greedy , and busy to catch so hopeful a Prize for his Daughter : The Father provided a plentiful Feast ; in Grandieur they went to be wedded ; The Portion was paid , but the cream of the Jest , was what they did when they were bedded . The Bridegroom had prudently god a Sheep's gut blowed up very stiff , as a Bladder ; But what he did with it , or whither 'twas put I'll leave you good Folks to consider : The innocent Bride no difference knew , and seemed to be greatly delighted ; But Lasses I warrant there's none among you that would be so cleverly cheated . This for a Month undiscovered passed on ; at last and old turbulet Woman , Made privy to the Project when first'twas begun , and knew the young Spouse to be no Man , One morning resolved to open the Jest , without any farther delaying , The Bed-claths she tossed , showed the Beard of the Beast , and Pulled off the Politic Play-Thing . Printed for J. Butcher , at the Sign of the Hartichoak , near Lude-gat [ e ] . 