Shameless JOAN : OR , THE Old Woman of Finsbury , WHO Went through the City upon all four , with a lighted Candle in her Backside , and scared the Watch who was amazed at that dismal sighed . To the Tune of , Jealous Lover . Licensed according to Order . YOu that in merriment delight , Pray listen well to what I write , It i [ s ] a pleasant Jest you'll find , To cure a melancholy Mind : As I upon the Watch did stand , With Staff and Lantern in my hand , A frightful Creature there I see , Which before amazed and starteled me . It seemed to have four sprawling Feet , On which it crawled along the Street , And towards me at length it came , Breathing , as 'twere , a burning-flame . This Creature was arrayed in clothes , A huge broad Face , but never a Nose , Nor any Eyes could I behold , The Heart within my Bre [ a ] st was cold . The brawny Cheeks did me surprise , They being of the larger size , Then I had seen in all my days , I for a while did stand and gaze . What course to taken [ e ] I could not tell , Thought I it is some Fiend of Hell , That came to scare and frighten us , With courage then I answered thus : I am a Watchman at my Post , Therefore if thou art Hag or Ghost , Or a Hobgobling , or Nightmare , Speak up , quoth I , Friend , who comes there ? Shameless , the Apparition cried , Immediately I then replied , I'll quit my Post since it is so , Even shameless come , and shameless go . Me thought a humane Voice I heard , Althou [ g ] h and ill shaped thing appeared . Therefore to the main Watch I run , Crying out , Friends , we're all undone . The Watch cried out , What do you mean ? Says I , Old Satan I have seen , He is approaching to this place , With flaming fire in his face . This said we went to meet him then , With staves and clubs full twenty Men ; At length this Devil proved to be , Old drunken Joan of Finsbury . Who being in and Alehouse late , Not very far from Bishops-gate , Had laid a Wager of a Crown , That she would cross fair London - town When each was sleeping fast in Bed , Her Coats and Smock thrown over her head , She backward was obliged to crawl , Upon her hands nay feet and all : Accordingly away she went , And in her brawny Fundament , A lighted Candle placed must be , Which was a dreadful sighed to see . Joan wone the Wager , for she passed Across the City , and at last Meeting the Watch , she turned about And fairly blew her Candle out . Home she returned without delay , There was good laughing the next day At the poor Watchman , who declared He never before had been so scared . Upon her Hands and Feet she come , Explosing of her naked Bum , In which there stuck a Candle lighted , This would the hardest Man affrighted . Kind Neighbours , this was William Green By whom this dismal sighed was seen ; The Woman's Name is known to be , Old Shameless Joan of Finsbury . London : Printed for J. Bear , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . Shameless JOAN : OR , THE Old Woman of Finsbury , WHO Went through the City upon all four , with a lighted Candle in her Backside , and scared the Watch who was amazed at that dismal sighed . To the Tune of , Jealous Lover . Licensed according to Order . YOu that in merriment delight , Pray listen well to what I write , It i [ s ] a pleasant Jest you'll find , To cure a melancholy Mind : As I upon the Watch did stand , With Staff and Lantern in my hand , A frightful Creature there I see , Which before amazed and starteled me . It seemed to have four sprawling Feet , On which it crawled along the Street , And towards me at length it came , Breathing , as 'twere , a burning-flame . This Creature was arrayed in clothes , A huge broad Face , but never a Nose , Nor any Eyes could I behold , The Heart within my Bre [ a ] st was cold . The brawny Cheeks did me surprise , They being of the larger size , Then I had seen in all my days , I for a while did stand and gaze . What course to taken [ e ] I could not tell , Thought I it is some Fiend of Hell , That came to scare and frighten us , With courage then I answered thus : I am a Watchman at my Post , Therefore if thou art Hag or Ghost , Or a Hobgobling , or Nightmare , Speak up , quoth I , Friend , who comes there ? Shameless , the Apparition cried , Immediately I then replied , I'll quit my Post since it is so , Even shameless come , and shameless go . Me thought a humane Voice I heard , Althou [ g ] h and ill shaped thing appeared . Therefore to the main Watch I run , Crying out , Friends , we're all undone . The Watch cried out , What do you mean ? Says I , Old Satan I have seen , He is approaching to this place , With flaming fire in his face . This said we went to meet him then , With staves and clubs full twenty Men ; At length this Devil proved to be , Old drunken Joan of Finsbury . Who being in and Alehouse late , Not very far from Bishops-gate , Had laid a Wager of a Crown , That she would cross fair London - town When each was sleeping fast in Bed , Her Coats and Smock thrown over her head , She backward was obliged to crawl , Upon her hands nay feet and all : Accordingly away she went , And in her brawny Fundament , A lighted Candle placed must be , Which was a dreadful sighed to see . Joan wone the Wager , for she passed Across the City , and at last Meeting the Watch , she turned about And fairly blew her Candle out . Home she returned without delay , There was good laughing the next day At the poor Watchman , who declared He never before had been so scared . Upon her Hands and Feet she come , Explosing of her naked Bum , In which there stuck a Candle lighted , This would the hardest Man affrighted . Kind Neighbours , this was William Green By whom this dismal sighed was seen ; The Woman's Name is known to be , Old Shameless Joan of Finsbury . London : Printed for J. Bear , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 