THE Modish Dancing-Master OR , THE Boarding School MISS , To a Pleasant Tune , called , A New Minuet . Licensed according to Order . I . Make your Honours Miss , first to the Gentry here , Now to me , Child , brisk without fear ; Airy and Easie , with a fine gentle Mien , Very well done Miss , that's my brave Queen : Raise up your body Miss , and look up with your eyes Then all the Gallants hear you will surprise . II Hold up your Head , Miss , and you will all excel , Wipe your Nose , Child ; So , very well : When I press on you , pray be sure to take care To fallen back , easy , and do not stare ; Keep out your Toes too , and you will quickly dance Better than Madame Moyse [ l ] le of France . III . Bear your Hips swimmingly , Miss , that you may get praise , Keep your Eyes languishing , sweetly always ; Fie ! where's your Ears , Miss , quicker , come this way Leave off your Jerking ; now bend and bow ; Keep your Knees open , mind what I say to you , now Else all the teaching on Earth will not do . IV. Go fetch your Castre-Nets , and put they quickly on , You'll learn a Saraband ever it be long : Try now , begin Child , Joy to Great Cesar , here , Snap now your Fingers , Miss , fie take care : Coopee once more , Oh! you creep like a Mouse , And all this Dancing's not worth a Louse . V. Pray tell your Mother Miss , that your Quarter's up That I intend with her to Sup : Begin , again Child , mind now your Boree too , And keep your Hands , Miss , mind what you do ; Now you do well Miss , do this so once again , And I shall have no cause to complain . VI . Walk your Corant before your Minuet , Oh! I forgotten , you learned it not yet : Come then do Pasby , it's much in fashion here , And it's applauded by all that's here ; If you but mind it , you can do prettily , As you can Sing , Miss , well , prithee try . VII . If you will love me , Miss , I will love you well , You shall Dance rarely , and all excel , You are a Fortune , and should be married , Miss , And'tis high time you think on this ; Give your consent , and do not stand in awe , And I will give you my Tol-derry-Dough . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Modish Dancing-Master OR , THE Boarding School MISS , To a Pleasant Tune , called , A New Minuet . Licensed according to Order . I . Make your Honours Miss , first to the Gentry here , Now to me , Child , brisk without fear ; Airy and Easie , with a fine gentle Mien , Very well done Miss , that's my brave Queen : Raise up your body Miss , and look up with your eyes Then all the Gallants hear you will surprise . II Hold up your Head , Miss , and you will all excel , Wipe your Nose , Child ; So , very well : When I press on you , pray be sure to take care To fallen back , easy , and do not stare ; Keep out your Toes too , and you will quickly dance Better than Madame Moyse [ l ] le of France . III . Bear your Hips swimmingly , Miss , that you may get praise , Keep your Eyes languishing , sweetly always ; Fie ! where's your Ears , Miss , quicker , come this way Leave off your Jerking ; now bend and bow ; Keep your Knees open , mind what I say to you , now Else all the teaching on Earth will not do . IV. Go fetch your Castre-Nets , and put they quickly on , You'll learn a Saraband ever it be long : Try now , begin Child , Joy to Great Cesar , here , Snap now your Fingers , Miss , fie take care : Coopee once more , Oh! you creep like a Mouse , And all this Dancing's not worth a Louse . V. Pray tell your Mother Miss , that your Quarter's up That I intend with her to Sup : Begin , again Child , mind now your Boree too , And keep your Hands , Miss , mind what you do ; Now you do well Miss , do this so once again , And I shall have no cause to complain . VI . Walk your Corant before your Minuet , Oh! I forgotten , you learned it not yet : Come then do Pasby , it's much in fashion here , And it's applauded by all that's here ; If you but mind it , you can do prettily , As you can Sing , Miss , well , prithee try . VII . If you will love me , Miss , I will love you well , You shall Dance rarely , and all excel , You are a Fortune , and should be married , Miss , And'tis high time you think on this ; Give your consent , and do not stand in awe , And I will give you my Tol-derry-Dough . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 