The Fortunate Lasses of London : OR , A brief Account of the many Benifit-Tickets drawn by poor Sir - vaunts and Sinder-wenches , out of the late Maiden-Lottery . Some that before had scarce a Smock to wear , Are now as fine as Ladies , I declare . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Licensed according to Order . THe Lottery now is completed , where Husbands you where to obtain , For Lasses we find , to luck was inclined , and brought in their Guinneys amain , From every part of the Town , the Beautiful , Black and the Brown , Came tripping together , as light as a feather , and Kate at the sign of the Crown , She had a good Benefit-Ticket we hear , Which brought her a Man of five Hundred a Year . Young Sue at the sign of the Dragon , she laid her best Mantow in Pawn , Her Muzzling Head , with Ribbons of read , with Ruffles of delicate Lawn , And two or three Tippets likewise ; then she to the Lottery hies , And since she had ventured , as soon as she entered , Sue lit of a delicate Prize ; Her Benefit-Ticket , as it will appear , Has brought her a Man of six Hundred a Year . There's Mary in Westminster City , who was but a poor Scullion-maid , A Guinney she god , to purchase a Lot , Of Robin a Taylor by trade , Who was but her Father-in-law ; so soon as the Guinney she saw , She purchased a Ticket , and happened to neck it , for Mary did luckily Draw A Benefit-Ticket , as it will appear , Which brought her a Man of eight Hundred a Year . There's Gillian that lives at the Maypole , and Betty in Turn-again-lane , Nay , Bridget and Kate , near little More-gate , young Sib at the Thistle and Crane ; With Sue at the sign of the Sun , and Joan at the Dagger and Gun , They pawned all their Pinners , had they not been Winners , poor Creatures , they had been undone , But they have had Benefit-Tickets , we hear , For Husbands each having five Hundred a Year . Poor Susan the Sister of Sinders , who scarce had a Smock to her Back , She luckily found , a Purse on the ground , and ventured it every jack ; This Taterdemalian , poor Sue , who scarce had a stocking or shoe , By Fortune befriended , her case was amended , five hundred and seven she drew , And that did a Benefit-Ticket appear , Which brought her a Man of one Thousand a Year . There's Betty a Water-man's Daughter that lived near Wapping-old-stairs ; A Nitter by trade , this innocent Maid away to the Strand she repairs ; Her Parents although they were poor , and had but one Guinney in store , That Guinney they lent her , so that she did venture , her Lot was six hundred and four , The which did a Benefit-Ticket appear , And brought her a Man of two Thousand a Year . Poor Sarah that lived at the Miter , she had neither Silver nor Gold , But meeting with Ned , her dear Maidenhead , in troth , for a Guinney she sold ; And then without longer delay , young Sarah she hurried away ; Now mind but the Story , her fortunate Glory , this Guinney was lucky you'll say , For she had a Benefit-Ticket we hear , Which brought her a Man of three Thousand a Year . There's many young beautiful Ladies , that daily come in for a shear , Yet since they were Great , we do not relate or mention their Benefits here , But those that from nothing did rise , the Poor and the Naked likewise , Who pawned their Attire , to gain their desire , the hope's of a delicate Prize ; And when drawing their Benefit-Tickets appear , With Husbands of Hundreds and thousands a Year . London : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in Pie-corner . The Fortunate Lasses of London : OR , A brief Account of the many Benifit-Tickets drawn by poor Sir - vaunts and Sinder-wenches , out of the late Maiden-Lottery . Some that before had scarce a Smock to wear , Are now as fine as Ladies , I declare . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Licensed according to Order . THe Lottery now is completed , where Husbands you where to obtain , For Lasses we find , to luck was inclined , and brought in their Guinneys amain , From every part of the Town , the Beautiful , Black and the Brown , Came tripping together , as light as a feather , and Kate at the sign of the Crown , She had a good Benefit-Ticket we hear , Which brought her a Man of five Hundred a Year . Young Sue at the sign of the Dragon , she laid her best Mantow in Pawn , Her Muzzling Head , with Ribbons of read , with Ruffles of delicate Lawn , And two or three Tippets likewise ; then she to the Lottery hies , And since she had ventured , as soon as she entered , Sue lit of a delicate Prize ; Her Benefit-Ticket , as it will appear , Has brought her a Man of six Hundred a Year . There's Mary in Westminster City , who was but a poor Scullion-maid , A Guinney she god , to purchase a Lot , Of Robin a Taylor by trade , Who was but her Father-in-law ; so soon as the Guinney she saw , She purchased a Ticket , and happened to neck it , for Mary did luckily Draw A Benefit-Ticket , as it will appear , Which brought her a Man of eight Hundred a Year . There's Gillian that lives at the Maypole , and Betty in Turn-again-lane , Nay , Bridget and Kate , near little More-gate , young Sib at the Thistle and Crane ; With Sue at the sign of the Sun , and Joan at the Dagger and Gun , They pawned all their Pinners , had they not been Winners , poor Creatures , they had been undone , But they have had Benefit-Tickets , we hear , For Husbands each having five Hundred a Year . Poor Susan the Sister of Sinders , who scarce had a Smock to her Back , She luckily found , a Purse on the ground , and ventured it every jack ; This Taterdemalian , poor Sue , who scarce had a stocking or shoe , By Fortune befriended , her case was amended , five hundred and seven she drew , And that did a Benefit-Ticket appear , Which brought her a Man of one Thousand a Year . There's Betty a Water-man's Daughter that lived near Wapping-old-stairs ; A Nitter by trade , this innocent Maid away to the Strand she repairs ; Her Parents although they were poor , and had but one Guinney in store , That Guinney they lent her , so that she did venture , her Lot was six hundred and four , The which did a Benefit-Ticket appear , And brought her a Man of two Thousand a Year . Poor Sarah that lived at the Miter , she had neither Silver nor Gold , But meeting with Ned , her dear Maidenhead , in troth , for a Guinney she sold ; And then without longer delay , young Sarah she hurried away ; Now mind but the Story , her fortunate Glory , this Guinney was lucky you'll say , For she had a Benefit-Ticket we hear , Which brought her a Man of three Thousand a Year . There's many young beautiful Ladies , that daily come in for a shear , Yet since they were Great , we do not relate or mention their Benefits here , But those that from nothing did rise , the Poor and the Naked likewise , Who pawned their Attire , to gain their desire , the hope's of a delicate Prize ; And when drawing their Benefit-Tickets appear , With Husbands of Hundreds and thousands a Year . London : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in Pie-corner . 