THE VIRGINS Vindication : OR , The Conceited Fashionmongers Fairly exposed To the view of the World . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . I . IN the former Ages there never was the state Or pride in their Apparel as here has been of late ; Father Adam and his Wife , they did never in their life , The lest admire rich Attire , they were not at strife , For Silks or Satins , or shining Gold , Poor silly Figleaves served for to keep them from the Cold : But now it's turned we see to Silks and bravery , Young Sparks admire rich Attire , mounted cap-a-pe . II We have been degraded by Gallants long ago , And told of our high Toppins , this of a truth you know , With our paint and powdered Hair , but I think we may declare You cannot blame us , nor defame us , though the same we wear ; Having now followed us in our Pride , With Silks a shining Gold , nay , and twenty things beside : Now Gallants of the Game , henceforward never blame Young Maids nor Women for their Trimming , first yourselves reclaim . III . Is it not apparent from what we daily see , That all your chief delight is in Prodigality , While you study night and day for new Fashions rich and gay , With Wig and Rapier , how you vaper at each Ball and Play , Where if you find any thing that's new , The Tailor must be fetched without any more ado : Now Gallants of the Game , etc Young Maids nor Women , etc IV. Men of old delighted in modest locks of Hair , Which now of late are slighted , for ranting Gallants wear Wigs that dangle to each Waste , with their Garments fringed & amp ; laced Which Bully hector's , Jilt-protectors thinks that they are graced , When they do strut it like Peacocks gay , In Feathers bought on trust for which they'll forget to pay : Then Gallants of the Game , henceforward never blame Young Maids nor Women for their Trimming , first yourselves reclaim . V. See the bowish Button can of a Turnip seize , To keep up Caralina from hanging over their Eyes , With Buttonholes beside , which are near as large and wide Upon each Jacket , as Joan ' s Placket , can it be denied ? Sleeves hanging over their Knuckles , Sir , Like to a pair of Pokes for to carry Provender : Then Gallants blush for shame , etc Young Maids nor Women , etc VI . They must have their Rapier with a rich silver Hilt , A knot of gaudy Ribbons , though not a groat of Gilded ; With a ranting taring Muff , thus the flaunting Bully huff , Looks like a Paggin , you'd imagine he hath Means enough ; Yet let me tell you these modish Bows , Are often in a strait and obliged to pawn their Clothes : Thus Gallarts of the Game , etc Young Maids nor Women , etc VII . Such conceited Codshead was never known before , While in their gaudy Plumbs how they view themselves all over , Nay the Wig must have a fling for to show the Diamond-ring , It's state and pleasure out of measure , and a glorious thing , To show the Ladies their excellence , Thus with their ranting Pride they have scarce a grain of Sense : Then Gallant of the Game , henceforward never blame Young Maids nor Women for their Trimming , first yourselves reclaim . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass , on London-bridge . THE VIRGINS Vindication : OR , The Conceited Fashionmongers Fairly exposed To the view of the World . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . I . IN the former Ages there never was the state Or pride in their Apparel as here has been of late ; Father Adam and his Wife , they did never in their life , The lest admire rich Attire , they were not at strife , For Silks or Satins , or shining Gold , Poor silly Figleaves served for to keep them from the Cold : But now it's turned we see to Silks and bravery , Young Sparks admire rich Attire , mounted cap-a-pe . II We have been degraded by Gallants long ago , And told of our high Toppins , this of a truth you know , With our paint and powdered Hair , but I think we may declare You cannot blame us , nor defame us , though the same we wear ; Having now followed us in our Pride , With Silks a shining Gold , nay , and twenty things beside : Now Gallants of the Game , henceforward never blame Young Maids nor Women for their Trimming , first yourselves reclaim . III . Is it not apparent from what we daily see , That all your chief delight is in Prodigality , While you study night and day for new Fashions rich and gay , With Wig and Rapier , how you vaper at each Ball and Play , Where if you find any thing that's new , The Tailor must be fetched without any more ado : Now Gallants of the Game , etc Young Maids nor Women , etc IV. Men of old delighted in modest locks of Hair , Which now of late are slighted , for ranting Gallants wear Wigs that dangle to each Waste , with their Garments fringed & amp ; laced Which Bully hector's , Jilt-protectors thinks that they are graced , When they do strut it like Peacocks gay , In Feathers bought on trust for which they'll forget to pay : Then Gallants of the Game , henceforward never blame Young Maids nor Women for their Trimming , first yourselves reclaim . V. See the bowish Button can of a Turnip seize , To keep up Caralina from hanging over their Eyes , With Buttonholes beside , which are near as large and wide Upon each Jacket , as Joan ' s Placket , can it be denied ? Sleeves hanging over their Knuckles , Sir , Like to a pair of Pokes for to carry Provender : Then Gallants blush for shame , etc Young Maids nor Women , etc VI . They must have their Rapier with a rich silver Hilt , A knot of gaudy Ribbons , though not a groat of Gilded ; With a ranting taring Muff , thus the flaunting Bully huff , Looks like a Paggin , you'd imagine he hath Means enough ; Yet let me tell you these modish Bows , Are often in a strait and obliged to pawn their Clothes : Thus Gallarts of the Game , etc Young Maids nor Women , etc VII . Such conceited Codshead was never known before , While in their gaudy Plumbs how they view themselves all over , Nay the Wig must have a fling for to show the Diamond-ring , It's state and pleasure out of measure , and a glorious thing , To show the Ladies their excellence , Thus with their ranting Pride they have scarce a grain of Sense : Then Gallant of the Game , henceforward never blame Young Maids nor Women for their Trimming , first yourselves reclaim . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass , on London-bridge . 