A Dialogue between My Lord Hump , & amp ; his Valet worser Chambre , CONCERNING The Pretty Lady's being in Love with his Lordship . To the Tune of , Hark , hark , and yonder . I. Master . J Ack , Tom , where are you , What makes you not attend ho , The hour is late , And no one to wait , I should a been dressed before now , ( Man ) Sir I come , I come Sir , Here's your Gown , here's your Gown , Your Slippers's ready on the ground , With all things to put on Sir , With all things to put on Sir . II ( Mast. ) Come Sirrah shave me , I must not look so gravely , Lest Miss oF the Town , When sees me should frown , And flightingly should leave me , For I am on Honour , For to meet , for to meet A Nymph that's Charming fair & amp ; Sweet , ( Man ) No doubt but you have wone her , No doubt but you have wone her . III . ( Mast. ) How does my Wig fit , Dost cover my Hump yet ? ( Ser. ) Yes , yes , sir yes , There's nothing amiss , Will you have the Glass to view it . ( Mast. ) Hold it round about me , For I'de see , for I'de see If my Hump all covered be , Lest the Ladys flout me , Lest the Ladys flout me . IV. How looks my Face now . Is Cravat-string in place too , So fain I'de go For a sparklish Bo , And my Body move with Grace too : ( Ser. ) Sir , all fits completely , But your Hat , but your Hat , Instead of Cocking it does Flop , ( Mast. ) the Rogue then mend it quickly , You Rogue then mend it quickly . V. How fits my Cloak now ? Does Sword touch right Heel too ; What are you mute , Can't you answer ? you Sot , ( Ser. ) They hang far as they should do : Must I call a Coach then ? ( Mast. ) Not to day , not to day , My Trimming is so fine and gay , The Coach will Spoil my Clothes John , The Coach will spoil my Clothes John. VI . John , John , I prithee Does pretty Maids look on me ? ( Ser. ) Yes , yes , sir yes , ( Mast. ) What says pretty Miss ? ( Ser. ) You'ar a handsome Man and witty ; ( Mast. ) O do they so John , Nay by Jove , nay by Jove , WORSER ---- m em , let em die for love , Though never so found and pretty , Though never so found and pretty . Printed by TO . M.A Dialogue between My Lord Hump , & amp ; his Valet worser Chambre , CONCERNING The Pretty Lady's being in Love with his Lordship . To the Tune of , Hark , hark , and yonder . I. Master . J Ack , Tom , where are you , What makes you not attend ho , The hour is late , And no one to wait , I should a been dressed before now , ( Man ) Sir I come , I come Sir , Here's your Gown , here's your Gown , Your Slippers's ready on the ground , With all things to put on Sir , With all things to put on Sir . II ( Mast. ) Come Sirrah shave me , I must not look so gravely , Lest Miss oF the Town , When sees me should frown , And flightingly should leave me , For I am on Honour , For to meet , for to meet A Nymph that's Charming fair & amp ; Sweet , ( Man ) No doubt but you have wone her , No doubt but you have wone her . III . ( Mast. ) How does my Wig fit , Dost cover my Hump yet ? ( Ser. ) Yes , yes , sir yes , There's nothing amiss , Will you have the Glass to view it . ( Mast. ) Hold it round about me , For I'de see , for I'de see If my Hump all covered be , Lest the Ladys flout me , Lest the Ladys flout me . IV. How looks my Face now . Is Cravat-string in place too , So fain I'de go For a sparklish Bo , And my Body move with Grace too : ( Ser. ) Sir , all fits completely , But your Hat , but your Hat , Instead of Cocking it does Flop , ( Mast. ) the Rogue then mend it quickly , You Rogue then mend it quickly . V. How fits my Cloak now ? Does Sword touch right Heel too ; What are you mute , Can't you answer ? you Sot , ( Ser. ) They hang far as they should do : Must I call a Coach then ? ( Mast. ) Not to day , not to day , My Trimming is so fine and gay , The Coach will Spoil my Clothes John , The Coach will spoil my Clothes John. VI . John , John , I prithee Does pretty Maids look on me ? ( Ser. ) Yes , yes , sir yes , ( Mast. ) What says pretty Miss ? ( Ser. ) You'ar a handsome Man and witty ; ( Mast. ) O do they so John , Nay by Jove , nay by Jove , WORSER ---- m em , let em die for love , Though never so found and pretty , Though never so found and pretty . Printed by T.M. 