The French Dancing - Master's Misfortune at the English Masquerade . To and excellent New Tune . 1. I am the very honest French man , but tree Weeks since me came from France ; And when me came away from dence man , me taught to learn the English dance ; Me go unto wone Masquerade , tinking some Fashion for to see , Dare me pick up the handsome Lady , but begar den she pick up me . 2. She take me to the ordinary , Beware the French Gentlemen do dine ; Dare we had Claret and Canary , and many oder sort of Wine ; Den she show me a golden Locket , which I so much did look upon , She take my Wash out of my pocket , and steal away all my larjon 3. Den she pretend to go make Water , and that she'd quickly come again ; Me fit and Wonder what's the matter until me hear de clock strike ten ; Den me did call , and ask the Drawer ware is the Lady that was here ? Good Sir said he I never saw her since she sat by you in that Chair . 4. If she be gone , me will not stay den , but to my Lodging me will go , Darefore go see what is to pay den , sir said the Drawer you shall know ; When he came up he said to Mounsieur twelve shillings just there is to pay ; Then the poor French-man swore Garzouns sir dis devlish Bish is run away . 5. She show too me a golden Locket , which me admire very much ; In the mean time she pick my picket of my Larjon and of my Wash , Dis be de trick of English Mishes , me never see de like before ; Begar at her my finger Ishes ; sir said the Drawer pay your score . 6. Me be the civil Gentleman sir , wone Dancing master by my Trade ; The Drawer to him thus made answer pray sir how must the shot be paid ; Me come and pay yond all to morrow , If that you please to take my word , If not , me tell you to your sorrow , me pay you now wid a good Sword . 7. The Drawer , to him , made no answer , but carefully put by his pass , And closed in unto this Dancer , and laid him down upon his arss ; He beatrice him , and took his Sword from him , and kept it till the shot was paid ; And this poor Mounsieur god by coming to see the English Masquerade . FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next to the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . The French Dancing - Master's Misfortune at the English Masquerade . To and excellent New Tune . 1. I am the very honest French man , but tree Weeks since me came from France ; And when me came away from dence man , me taught to learn the English dance ; Me go unto wone Masquerade , tinking some Fashion for to see , Dare me pick up the handsome Lady , but begar den she pick up me . 2. She take me to the ordinary , Beware the French Gentlemen do dine ; Dare we had Claret and Canary , and many oder sort of Wine ; Den she show me a golden Locket , which I so much did look upon , She take my Wash out of my pocket , and steal away all my larjon 3. Den she pretend to go make Water , and that she'd quickly come again ; Me fit and Wonder what's the matter until me hear de clock strike ten ; Den me did call , and ask the Drawer ware is the Lady that was here ? Good Sir said he I never saw her since she sat by you in that Chair . 4. If she be gone , me will not stay den , but to my Lodging me will go , Darefore go see what is to pay den , sir said the Drawer you shall know ; When he came up he said to Mounsieur twelve shillings just there is to pay ; Then the poor French-man swore Garzouns sir dis devlish Bish is run away . 5. She show too me a golden Locket , which me admire very much ; In the mean time she pick my picket of my Larjon and of my Wash , Dis be de trick of English Mishes , me never see de like before ; Begar at her my finger Ishes ; sir said the Drawer pay your score . 6. Me be the civil Gentleman sir , wone Dancing master by my Trade ; The Drawer to him thus made answer pray sir how must the shot be paid ; Me come and pay yond all to morrow , If that you please to take my word , If not , me tell you to your sorrow , me pay you now wid a good Sword . 7. The Drawer , to him , made no answer , but carefully put by his pass , And closed in unto this Dancer , and laid him down upon his arss ; He beatrice him , and took his Sword from him , and kept it till the shot was paid ; And this poor Mounsieur god by coming to see the English Masquerade . FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next to the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . 