The Jesuits Lamentation , OR , THE Priests n ever Better Fitted . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we ; or , Russel's Farewell . ( 1 ) WAlking one Evening in a Grove to taste the wholesome air , I herd two Jesuits sighs and sob , being acted by despair ; Quoth one to the tother , Ah my Friend , we now are quite undone , Our Romish tricks have now and end , we for our lives must run . ( 2 ) Our prop is lost , and we must fallen by Halter or by Ax ; Great James is gone , and with him all our little bubbling knacks : The great King William he has come , and spoiled our thriving Church , He hates the Scarlet Whore of Room , we are now in the lurch . ( 3 ) Our Masses will no longer pass for current English pay , Their Cheats discovered are alas , and we must hence away ; The people now are undeceived , they can our Cheats descry , We can no longer be believed , if we stay we surely die . ( 4 ) Our Trading now is grown as dead as Saints to which we pray : Our Purgatory now is fled , with Peter is pence away : Our Holy Pardons now are dead , and not esteemed here ; Our Pilgrimages too are fled , with all we held most dear . ( 5 ) The people will no more give ear to such apparent lies ; Our Cheats too plainly now appear , and all our Knaveries : The King from hence will rout us out with a strong Hempen band ; He loves no Romish Imps about his Royal Throne should stand . ( 6 ) For well he knows wheree er we dwell we reign and reign alone , Which makes him take care us to expel far from his Royal Throne : Were ever Jesuits so crossed , as wretched we have been ; The day we thought our own is lost , the King has changed the Schene . ( 7 ) We thought the English to have slave with a bloody Romish hand ; But now Experience tells us plain , Heaven does our Tricks withstand . Then farewell to the English Shore and all our pleasures past ; We never shall say Mass here more ; all our Delights are lost . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel at the Hospital Gate in West SmIthfield . The Jesuits Lamentation , OR , THE Priests n ever Better Fitted . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we ; or , Russel's Farewell . ( 1 ) WAlking one Evening in a Grove to taste the wholesome air , I herd two Jesuits sighs and sob , being acted by despair ; Quoth one to the tother , Ah my Friend , we now are quite undone , Our Romish tricks have now and end , we for our lives must run . ( 2 ) Our prop is lost , and we must fallen by Halter or by Ax ; Great James is gone , and with him all our little bubbling knacks : The great King William he has come , and spoiled our thriving Church , He hates the Scarlet Whore of Room , we are now in the lurch . ( 3 ) Our Masses will no longer pass for current English pay , Their Cheats discovered are alas , and we must hence away ; The people now are undeceived , they can our Cheats descry , We can no longer be believed , if we stay we surely die . ( 4 ) Our Trading now is grown as dead as Saints to which we pray : Our Purgatory now is fled , with Peter is pence away : Our Holy Pardons now are dead , and not esteemed here ; Our Pilgrimages too are fled , with all we held most dear . ( 5 ) The people will no more give ear to such apparent lies ; Our Cheats too plainly now appear , and all our Knaveries : The King from hence will rout us out with a strong Hempen band ; He loves no Romish Imps about his Royal Throne should stand . ( 6 ) For well he knows wheree er we dwell we reign and reign alone , Which makes him take care us to expel far from his Royal Throne : Were ever Jesuits so crossed , as wretched we have been ; The day we thought our own is lost , the King has changed the Schene . ( 7 ) We thought the English to have slave with a bloody Romish hand ; But now Experience tells us plain , Heaven does our Tricks withstand . Then farewell to the English Shore and all our pleasures past ; We never shall say Mass here more ; all our Delights are lost . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel at the Hospital Gate in West SmIthfield . 