A New COPY OF VERSES , OF Monsieurs Boasting , or England is Cause of Triumph . To the Tune of Packington ' s Pound . A New Calculation of late has been given , Of the wondered Year of Ninety and Seaven ; How the French Preparations by Sea and by Land , Has threatened each Nation on every hand . Begar me'll outdo de Turk and de Jew , And Fight the dam Dutch , and de English too ; No Hero , no Hero , is like that of France , Who Challenge all Europe to make they advance . II The great Preparations for Sieging of Ath , And Vigorously Investing the Town , And when 'twas Surrendered to Mahomet Faith , And of our great Victory made such a Found : We greatly may boast , How few we have lost , And of the small Charges Repairs has Cost ; O then there's no reason that we should Repine , Though Conti , and Ponti , should lose their Design . III . For Boufflers , Catinat , and Villeroy , Does Head the grand Army that march in the Field ; No Town but submit to their genteel Decoy , And make the Confederate Forces to Yield . There's Conti the King , And Ponti is Offspring , They loud in the Ears of great Monarchy Sing ; Come Truckle , and Buckle yea Confederate Foes , Our Sword is in hand to make you dispose . IV. There's Monsieur Vendosme is Treating the Spaniard ; Who flees before they with Precipitation ; For at the noise of the approach of his Vangaurd , They all are afraid of the loss of their Nation . There's Seignour Loranzo , DONE Juan Alphanzo ; And ten Thousand more speak every Man so , That none can withstand our Generals Command , For we Fight the Battles of Lewis le Grand . [ 2 ] V. Great Admiral Ponti has caught the Galloons , So Richly Laden with the Spaniard is great Treasure , And made all the Seignors to be but Buffoons , We Rifle and Sack their Towns at our pleasure . Ten Millions of Crowns , With Plate in Galloons , Does give us great Reason to Crack and to Bounce , O how we rejoice when we come into Breast , And Sing O be Joyful as well as the rest . VI . But now the great Hope's of the Monsieur is gone , Which makes him so greatly to sue for a Peace : And their Hectoring Generals do greatly bemoan The loathsome Return of Great Monsieurs Disease . For his great Plenepoes , And his Politic Beaus , Must yield up the Cudgels to Lewis is Foes ; O Lewis , Grand Lewis , you must tamely Resign , Since Ponti , and Conti , has lost their Design . VII . Now William the Brave have turned the Scale , To Europe is Rejoicing , and England is great Glory ; And at his appearing did so much prevail , That the grand Monsieur soon changed his Story . With Trumpet and Drum , He bravely did come To Relieve the Oppression of Christendom ; Then Monsieur make haste and flee to your Line , For the English pursue you to break your Design . VIII . And now the Confederates joining their Forces [ , ] Has altered the Scene of Monsieurs great Hope's , And all their great Joys are turned into Curses , And are down in the Mouth like a parcel of Fops ; For William is great Name , Is come , them to tame , And all they have done will turn their Shame ; O Monsieur , grand Monsieur , you have cause to Repine . For Conti , and Ponti , has lost their Design . REPLY . Begar me no stay , says grand Villeroy , March vou , pass vou , hast to your Lines , Le Roy de Angliterre , approach moy , Vole vou all , or submit to his Fines , Monsieur Boussleer Et Catinat allere , [ P ] er Deiu de English begin to draw near ; For if they can catch us but out of our Line , They'll serve us like Ponti and break our Design . Printed in the Year , 1697. A New COPY OF VERSES , OF Monsieurs Boasting , or England is Cause of Triumph . To the Tune of Packington ' s Pound . A New Calculation of late has been given , Of the wondered Year of Ninety and Seaven ; How the French Preparations by Sea and by Land , Has threatened each Nation on every hand . Begar me'll outdo de Turk and de Jew , And Fight the dam Dutch , and de English too ; No Hero , no Hero , is like that of France , Who Challenge all Europe to make they advance . II The great Preparations for Sieging of Ath , And Vigorously Investing the Town , And when 'twas Surrendered to Mahomet Faith , And of our great Victory made such a Found : We greatly may boast , How few we have lost , And of the small Charges Repairs has Cost ; O then there's no reason that we should Repine , Though Conti , and Ponti , should lose their Design . III . For Boufflers , Catinat , and Villeroy , Does Head the grand Army that march in the Field ; No Town but submit to their genteel Decoy , And make the Confederate Forces to Yield . There's Conti the King , And Ponti is Offspring , They loud in the Ears of great Monarchy Sing ; Come Truckle , and Buckle yea Confederate Foes , Our Sword is in hand to make you dispose . IV. There's Monsieur Vendosme is Treating the Spaniard ; Who flees before they with Precipitation ; For at the noise of the approach of his Vangaurd , They all are afraid of the loss of their Nation . There's Seignour Loranzo , DONE Juan Alphanzo ; And ten Thousand more speak every Man so , That none can withstand our Generals Command , For we Fight the Battles of Lewis le Grand . [ 2 ] V. Great Admiral Ponti has caught the Galloons , So Richly Laden with the Spaniard is great Treasure , And made all the Seignors to be but Buffoons , We Rifle and Sack their Towns at our pleasure . Ten Millions of Crowns , With Plate in Galloons , Does give us great Reason to Crack and to Bounce , O how we rejoice when we come into Breast , And Sing O be Joyful as well as the rest . VI . But now the great Hope's of the Monsieur is gone , Which makes him so greatly to sue for a Peace : And their Hectoring Generals do greatly bemoan The loathsome Return of Great Monsieurs Disease . For his great Plenepoes , And his Politic Beaus , Must yield up the Cudgels to Lewis is Foes ; O Lewis , Grand Lewis , you must tamely Resign , Since Ponti , and Conti , has lost their Design . VII . Now William the Brave have turned the Scale , To Europe is Rejoicing , and England is great Glory ; And at his appearing did so much prevail , That the grand Monsieur soon changed his Story . With Trumpet and Drum , He bravely did come To Relieve the Oppression of Christendom ; Then Monsieur make haste and flee to your Line , For the English pursue you to break your Design . VIII . And now the Confederates joining their Forces [ , ] Has altered the Scene of Monsieurs great Hope's , And all their great Joys are turned into Curses , And are down in the Mouth like a parcel of Fops ; For William is great Name , Is come , them to tame , And all they have done will turn their Shame ; O Monsieur , grand Monsieur , you have cause to Repine . For Conti , and Ponti , has lost their Design . REPLY . Begar me no stay , says grand Villeroy , March vou , pass vou , hast to your Lines , Le Roy de Angliterre , approach moy , Vole vou all , or submit to his Fines , Monsieur Boussleer Et Catinat allere , [ P ] er Deiu de English begin to draw near ; For if they can catch us but out of our Line , They'll serve us like Ponti and break our Design . Printed in the Year , 1697. 