The Jacobite's Recantation SEEING The Glorious Conquest of IRELAND , and the happy Success in FLANDERS ; together with the Prosperity of the Emperor's Forces , which utterly deprives them of their last Hope . To the Tune Oh! how happy's he , etc Licensed according to Order . I . GAllants far and near , Pray now listen here , While my Grief and Sorrows now I do relate : I was one of those Which did once propose To dispute of weighty things in Church and State , Constantly maintaining Who was fit for Reigning ; Thus in Taverns we our Treasons did advance , And did Healths express , Wishing all Success Often to great Lewis , potent King of France . II In the early Spring , How his Fame did ring , When by Storm the mighty Town of Mons he took ; Then our Factious Crew Did their Joys renew ; Every Jacobite could give a cheerful Look : And we never doubted , But we should see routed All united Kings and Princes far and near ; But instead of Fame , We are clothed with Shame , And great Lewis now begins to quake for fear . III . We such Villains were That I do declare None was like us sure in all the World before : Daily did we boast That and Armed Host Sent from France should here invade our British Shore : Merely for destroying What we are enjoying , Christian Laws , which do's our Blessings still renew , We did lack to see Turn to Slavery , And Religion's utter Extirpation too . IV. In this Villainy Who more hight than I , For the present Government I did disdain ; Often did I swear , That my Beard I'ld wear Till the Abdicated King returned again : But I cursed the Fancy , For my charming Nancy , Who in Beauty like and Angel did appear ; Soon my purpose crossed , So that I have lost She whose Portion was five thousand pounds a year . V. O this bushy Beard Made her so afraid That I want admitted to salute her hand ; But I now will trim , And submit to him Who is mighty potent Lord oh f all the Land ; Why should Romish Faction . Led me to Distraction , Having lost enough by that Fantastic Crew , Perfect Loyalty , King and Queen shall see , And for Jacobites I bid them all adieu . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Jacobite's Recantation SEEING The Glorious Conquest of IRELAND , and the happy Success in FLANDERS ; together with the Prosperity of the Emperor's Forces , which utterly deprives them of their last Hope . To the Tune Oh! how happy's he , etc Licensed according to Order . I . GAllants far and near , Pray now listen here , While my Grief and Sorrows now I do relate : I was one of those Which did once propose To dispute of weighty things in Church and State , Constantly maintaining Who was fit for Reigning ; Thus in Taverns we our Treasons did advance , And did Healths express , Wishing all Success Often to great Lewis , potent King of France . II In the early Spring , How his Fame did ring , When by Storm the mighty Town of Mons he took ; Then our Factious Crew Did their Joys renew ; Every Jacobite could give a cheerful Look : And we never doubted , But we should see routed All united Kings and Princes far and near ; But instead of Fame , We are clothed with Shame , And great Lewis now begins to quake for fear . III . We such Villains were That I do declare None was like us sure in all the World before : Daily did we boast That and Armed Host Sent from France should here invade our British Shore : Merely for destroying What we are enjoying , Christian Laws , which do's our Blessings still renew , We did lack to see Turn to Slavery , And Religion's utter Extirpation too . IV. In this Villainy Who more hight than I , For the present Government I did disdain ; Often did I swear , That my Beard I'ld wear Till the Abdicated King returned again : But I cursed the Fancy , For my charming Nancy , Who in Beauty like and Angel did appear ; Soon my purpose crossed , So that I have lost She whose Portion was five thousand pounds a year . V. O this bushy Beard Made her so afraid That I want admitted to salute her hand ; But I now will trim , And submit to him Who is mighty potent Lord oh f all the Land ; Why should Romish Faction . Led me to Distraction , Having lost enough by that Fantastic Crew , Perfect Loyalty , King and Queen shall see , And for Jacobites I bid them all adieu . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 