ROMES Beargarden , OR , The Popes Bulls brought to the Bating Stake by the late Chancellor . Tune of , Packintons Pound . ( 1 ) WHen England half Ruined had cause to be sad , the Pop is bloody Bulls they began to run mad , Because we had given them pasture a while , They ran about raning all over the Isle ; These merciless Beasts their rage for to feast , They gored and had like to have Murdered our Test : But just in the intrim there came in a Friend , Who did the poor Test from their Fury defend . ( 2 ) These Bulls they were kept by that Bear in the Tower , And chiefly were Nourished by dispensing Power : But sometime to feast their devouring Jaws , Their Keeper would give them some scraps of the Laws ; These Bulls have been found in other Men's ground , But now we have put them in Packintons Pound ; Oh never was Bulls so baited about , For certain as these will be ever they come out . ( 3 ) Thus in our Nation a great many Fools , Endeavoured to Fatten his Holiness Bulls , The Judges all most out of every cause , Allowed them a Pension of Penal Laws ; These Bulls had such power , they like to devour , Our Church and our Laws , but they now are brought lower : Was ever such Impudent Bulls ever known , To toss Sacred Majesty out of the Throne . ( 4 ) Their Keeper who was no less Man than a Lord , Where by these Mad Bulls most notoriously Gored : They had on their Heads such a Sampson like power , They cast him at one clever Toss in the Tower ; And some they are Jealous that he and his Fellows , Will be tossed from the Tower , to a Scaffold or Gallows , Oh what a sad sighed would it be for to see , So many blessed Martyrs to swing on a Tree . ( 5 ) We've done with the Keeper , & amp ; now for the Driver Who valued Religion no more than a Stiver : These Bulls being Wanton and at no command , They tossed their poor Driver quite out of the Land ; This is a sad matter to lose Observator , Who has a strange Name , but is stranger by Nature : Twould be a sad thing should he dance the long Jig , For making division betwixt Tory and Whigg . ( 6 ) These Bulls were so wanton and masterless grown , They broke into pastures that lay nigh the Throne ; They Fatted themselves , and there ranged about , And undid the Owner before they come out : He was forced out of hand , to leave all his Land , S such Damed Popish Bulls diserve all to be hanged , More Mischief they did which must not be expressed , I'll leave you alone to Imagine the rest . ( 7 ) But now these sad beasts for the mischief they done , Will be to the Slaughter brought every one ; And if that they were but well ordered and dressed , Twould make Pope and Devil a delicate feast : Their Bull nor their Bears , shall bred no more fears , Nor set us together again by the Ears , We'll out of our Land quickly drive out such Beasts , As popular Rogues and disquited Priests . ( 8 ) You that are minded to purchase a Hide , Pray lay by your Coin while the Bulls they are tried , For then at the Gallows you'll see such a heap , And excellent Pennyworths sold very Cheap : Stay but while Sessions , you'll hear such Confessions , As Subtle as ever was the old Declarations ; But we shall have now a much honester State , And be no more Bulled at so simple a rate . Printed for J.C. in Holborn . ROMES Beargarden , OR , The Popes Bulls brought to the Bating Stake by the late Chancellor . Tune of , Packintons Pound . ( 1 ) WHen England half Ruined had cause to be sad , the Pop is bloody Bulls they began to run mad , Because we had given them pasture a while , They ran about raning all over the Isle ; These merciless Beasts their rage for to feast , They gored and had like to have Murdered our Test : But just in the intrim there came in a Friend , Who did the poor Test from their Fury defend . ( 2 ) These Bulls they were kept by that Bear in the Tower , And chiefly were Nourished by dispensing Power : But sometime to feast their devouring Jaws , Their Keeper would give them some scraps of the Laws ; These Bulls have been found in other Men's ground , But now we have put them in Packintons Pound ; Oh never was Bulls so baited about , For certain as these will be ever they come out . ( 3 ) Thus in our Nation a great many Fools , Endeavoured to Fatten his Holiness Bulls , The Judges all most out of every cause , Allowed them a Pension of Penal Laws ; These Bulls had such power , they like to devour , Our Church and our Laws , but they now are brought lower : Was ever such Impudent Bulls ever known , To toss Sacred Majesty out of the Throne . ( 4 ) Their Keeper who was no less Man than a Lord , Where by these Mad Bulls most notoriously Gored : They had on their Heads such a Sampson like power , They cast him at one clever Toss in the Tower ; And some they are Jealous that he and his Fellows , Will be tossed from the Tower , to a Scaffold or Gallows , Oh what a sad sighed would it be for to see , So many blessed Martyrs to swing on a Tree . ( 5 ) We've done with the Keeper , & amp ; now for the Driver Who valued Religion no more than a Stiver : These Bulls being Wanton and at no command , They tossed their poor Driver quite out of the Land ; This is a sad matter to lose Observator , Who has a strange Name , but is stranger by Nature : Twould be a sad thing should he dance the long Jig , For making division betwixt Tory and Whigg . ( 6 ) These Bulls were so wanton and masterless grown , They broke into pastures that lay nigh the Throne ; They Fatted themselves , and there ranged about , And undid the Owner before they come out : He was forced out of hand , to leave all his Land , S such Damed Popish Bulls diserve all to be hanged , More Mischief they did which must not be expressed , I'll leave you alone to Imagine the rest . ( 7 ) But now these sad beasts for the mischief they done , Will be to the Slaughter brought every one ; And if that they were but well ordered and dressed , Twould make Pope and Devil a delicate feast : Their Bull nor their Bears , shall bred no more fears , Nor set us together again by the Ears , We'll out of our Land quickly drive out such Beasts , As popular Rogues and disquited Priests . ( 8 ) You that are minded to purchase a Hide , Pray lay by your Coin while the Bulls they are tried , For then at the Gallows you'll see such a heap , And excellent Pennyworths sold very Cheap : Stay but while Sessions , you'll hear such Confessions , As Subtle as ever was the old Declarations ; But we shall have now a much honester State , And be no more Bulled at so simple a rate . Printed for J.C. in Holborn . 