The Religious Turncoat ; OR , a Late Jacobite Divine turned Williamite , Licensed according to Order . Tune of , London is a Fine Town . ( 1 ) I Loved no King in Forty One , When Prelacy went down ; A Cloak and Band , I then put on , And Preached against the Crown . Chorus . A Turncoat is a Cunning Man , That Cants to Admiration ; And Prays for any King , to gain The Peoples Approbation . ( 2 ) I showed them Paths to Heaven untrod , From Popery to refine they ; And taught the People to serve God , As if the Devil were in ' em . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 3 ) When Charles returned into our Land , The English Church Supporter , I shifted off my Cloak and Band , And so became a Courtier . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 4 ) The King's Religion I professed , And found there was no harm in't ; I Cogged and Flattered like the rest , Till I had god Preferment . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 5 ) I taught my Conscience how to Cope With Honesty or Evil ; And when I railed against the Pope , I sided with the Devil . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 6 ) When Royal James began his Reign , And Mass was used in Common , I shifted off my Faith again , And then became a Roman . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 7 ) I Order took i'th' Church of Rome , And Read the Declarations , And proved that all the World must come To Transubstantiation . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 8 ) His Holiness the Pope to please , By the Lord's Assistance , To bring in P op'ry with more ease , I preached up Non-Resistance . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 9 ) Our Prince of Wales was soon betrayed , And then the Headstrong Rabble Grew agnry with the Child , and made The Devil rock the Cradle . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 10 ) When Cause grew Sick , and King grew Tame I fell from Priest to Pagan ; Just as the Belgic Lion came , To quell the Romish Dragon . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 11 ) When William had possessed the Throne , And Cured the Nations Grievance , New P rinciples I then put on , And swore to him Allegiance . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 12 ) And now P reach up King William is Right , P ray for his Foes Confusion ; And shall remain a Williamite , Till another Revolution . Chorus . A Turncoat is a Cunning Man , That Cants to Admiration ; And Prays for any King , to gain The Peoples Approbation . FINIS . The Religious Turncoat ; OR , a Late Jacobite Divine turned Williamite , Licensed according to Order . Tune of , London is a Fine Town . ( 1 ) I Loved no King in Forty One , When Prelacy went down ; A Cloak and Band , I then put on , And Preached against the Crown . Chorus . A Turncoat is a Cunning Man , That Cants to Admiration ; And Prays for any King , to gain The Peoples Approbation . ( 2 ) I showed them Paths to Heaven untrod , From Popery to refine they ; And taught the People to serve God , As if the Devil were in ' em . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 3 ) When Charles returned into our Land , The English Church Supporter , I shifted off my Cloak and Band , And so became a Courtier . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 4 ) The King's Religion I professed , And found there was no harm in't ; I Cogged and Flattered like the rest , Till I had god Preferment . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 5 ) I taught my Conscience how to Cope With Honesty or Evil ; And when I railed against the Pope , I sided with the Devil . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 6 ) When Royal James began his Reign , And Mass was used in Common , I shifted off my Faith again , And then became a Roman . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 7 ) I Order took i'th' Church of Rome , And Read the Declarations , And proved that all the World must come To Transubstantiation . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 8 ) His Holiness the Pope to please , By the Lord's Assistance , To bring in P op'ry with more ease , I preached up Non-Resistance . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 9 ) Our Prince of Wales was soon betrayed , And then the Headstrong Rabble Grew agnry with the Child , and made The Devil rock the Cradle . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 10 ) When Cause grew Sick , and King grew Tame I fell from Priest to Pagan ; Just as the Belgic Lion came , To quell the Romish Dragon . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 11 ) When William had possessed the Throne , And Cured the Nations Grievance , New P rinciples I then put on , And swore to him Allegiance . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 12 ) And now P reach up King William is Right , P ray for his Foes Confusion ; And shall remain a Williamite , Till another Revolution . Chorus . A Turncoat is a Cunning Man , That Cants to Admiration ; And Prays for any King , to gain The Peoples Approbation . FINIS . 