TO THE READER . TO His Relation was occasioned upon the Reading of a Book writ by Mr. Perkins and Eminent Divine , En - tituled a Discovery of Witchcraft , wherein he says that there are many that are Witches and know it not . Up - on which account , a Relation of Marga - rest Price of Shropshire , near the Knucking reading this Passage , that all i [ n ] a natural Condition are under the power of the Devil , and if by malice or passion they Wish or Curse , the Devil joins with them , and the Party receives prejudice thereby . Upon which she fell into a deep Me - [ lanckolly ] , and so continued many Months [ ? ] ( 6 ) were Enemies in our minds ; it is a most pleasant thing to meditate upon the Glow - rious Mystery of God in Christ , when once we have crucified the flesh with the affections and Lusts. Let us gird up the loins of our minds and be strong , climb up to the top of Pisga , look over Jordan , and take a view of the Land of Rest ; look beyond the fallen of Babylon , look beyond the Victory over the Dragon and the false Pro - phet . The Lord make us all mighty in the Scriptures , wiser than our E - nemies , the Lord fill you with his Spirit . O that every one of us had the Spirit of David's Worthies , in - creasing with the increase of God , let us do our Father's Work and Will , Amen . For ( 7 ) For a Conclusion , and for great Con - solation , observe these Considera - tions about the Certainty of the Blessedness thereof . 1. GOds good pleasure is the only cause of his working in a Belie - ver , and strengthening him with all might in the inward man both to will and to do , and this prevents their perishing . 2. His Gifts are without repentance , and there is no cause to fear that he will altar his affection ; he that prevented them in his mercy when they were in their pol - lution , will not leave them when his Im - mage is engraven upon them . 3. He that loved them so as to unite them to his Son when they were Enemies , will he hate them they are his members ? 4. TTO THE READER . TO His Relation was occasioned upon the Reading of a Book writ by Mr. Perkins and Eminent Divine , En - tituled a Discovery of Witchcraft , wherein he says that there are many that are Witches and know it not . Up - on which account , a Relation of Marga - rest Price of Shropshire , near the Knucking reading this Passage , that all i [ n ] a natural Condition are under the power of the Devil , and if by malice or passion they Wish or Curse , the Devil joins with them , and the Party receives prejudice thereby . Upon which she fell into a deep Me - [ lanckolly ] , and so continued many Months [ ? ] ( 6 ) were Enemies in our minds ; it is a most pleasant thing to meditate upon the Glow - rious Mystery of God in Christ , when once we have crucified the flesh with the affections and Lusts. Let us gird up the loins of our minds and be strong , climb up to the top of Pisga , look over Jordan , and take a view of the Land of Rest ; look beyond the fallen of Babylon , look beyond the Victory over the Dragon and the false Pro - phet . The Lord make us all mighty in the Scriptures , wiser than our E - nemies , the Lord fill you with his Spirit . O that every one of us had the Spirit of David's Worthies , in - creasing with the increase of God , let us do our Father's Work and Will , Amen . For ( 7 ) For a Conclusion , and for great Con - solation , observe these Considera - tions about the Certainty of the Blessedness thereof . 1. GOds good pleasure is the only cause of his working in a Belie - ver , and strengthening him with all might in the inward man both to will and to do , and this prevents their perishing . 2. His Gifts are without repentance , and there is no cause to fear that he will altar his affection ; he that prevented them in his mercy when they were in their pol - lution , will not leave them when his Im - mage is engraven upon them . 3. He that loved them so as to unite them to his Son when they were Enemies , will he hate them they are his members ? 4. TO 