THE Witty Harlot ; Or , The French King in the Powdering Tub. TO une , I Love you more and more each day . Licensed according to Order . GReat Lewis in a mighty heat Was coming from his Bagnio , Endeavouring there to Cure by sweat His Fistula in Anno : And Ogling Prostrate met his Chair , He gazing on the Creature , So Young , so Fair , And full of Air , He doted , he doted on each Feature , Her Charming looks so much prevailed , They raised the Monarchs Passion , Who thought her Beauty far excelled All others in his Nation ; A Peer attending soon was sent To make the Kings addresses , Who could not rest Till he was blessed , With her soft sweet , with her soft sweet Embraces . The Courtier with all subtle Art , Declared his Sovereigns Passion , And in soft speeches did impart His Monarchs Inclination , She Proud to think so great a Heart was Conquered by her Features , Did soon resort TO oh view the Court , With all its fair , with all its fair fine Creatures . What Nature wanted , art supplied With Patches , Paint , and Dresses , Assuming to a stately Pride , Fit for a Kings Embraces : The wanton Dame with looks demure , Disguised her jilting Nature , No cunning Whore , Ever looked before , S oh like a Chaste , so like a Modest Creature . The Court her Beauty all Admired ; And stood in Admiration ; TO he King ( whose Lechery Love had fired ; S one show his Amorous Passion , TO he glances from her eyes she sent , so Charming were and Pleasing , TO he Kings Intent , And her Consent , TO heir Eyes betrayed , their Eyes betray [ ' ] worser by gazing TO oh c loose Apartment , she was led A Prostrate to his pleasure , But ever the Monarch rose from Bed , she Poxt him out of measure . And ever the symptoms did appear , Five hundred Crowns he gave her , Who soon fled over TO oth' English shore , where any S park , where any S park may have her Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holbourn , and J. Conyers adjoining to St. Peters - Alley in Cornhill . THE Witty Harlot ; Or , The French King in the Powdering Tub. TO une , I Love you more and more each day . Licensed according to Order . GReat Lewis in a mighty heat Was coming from his Bagnio , Endeavouring there to Cure by sweat His Fistula in Anno : And Ogling Prostrate met his Chair , He gazing on the Creature , So Young , so Fair , And full of Air , He doted , he doted on each Feature , Her Charming looks so much prevailed , They raised the Monarchs Passion , Who thought her Beauty far excelled All others in his Nation ; A Peer attending soon was sent To make the Kings addresses , Who could not rest Till he was blessed , With her soft sweet , with her soft sweet Embraces . The Courtier with all subtle Art , Declared his Sovereigns Passion , And in soft speeches did impart His Monarchs Inclination , She Proud to think so great a Heart was Conquered by her Features , Did soon resort TO oh view the Court , With all its fair , with all its fair fine Creatures . What Nature wanted , art supplied With Patches , Paint , and Dresses , Assuming to a stately Pride , Fit for a Kings Embraces : The wanton Dame with looks demure , Disguised her jilting Nature , No cunning Whore , Ever looked before , S oh like a Chaste , so like a Modest Creature . The Court her Beauty all Admired ; And stood in Admiration ; TO he King ( whose Lechery Love had fired ; S one show his Amorous Passion , TO he glances from her eyes she sent , so Charming were and Pleasing , TO he Kings Intent , And her Consent , TO heir Eyes betrayed , their Eyes betray [ ' ] worser by gazing TO oh c loose Apartment , she was led A Prostrate to his pleasure , But ever the Monarch rose from Bed , she Poxt him out of measure . And ever the symptoms did appear , Five hundred Crowns he gave her , Who soon fled over TO oth' English shore , where any S park , where any S park may have her Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holbourn , and J. Conyers adjoining to St. Peters - Alley in Cornhill . 