THE GREAT BASTAD , PROTECTOR of LITTLE ONE . Or , the Sighs of the French King under the Power of the Germane Empire ; Giving and Account of his Creuelty against the Prince of Condy , and the French Protestants ; His League with Mahomet the Great Turk ; Of his breaking the League with Germany ; of his Design with the Supposed Prince of Wales , and of his being Poxed with several Whores . To the Tune of , the Italian Duchess . I . I Am a Bastard , by my Birth , Of Popish Generation : My wicked Deeds do set me forth , To every Tongue and Nation . My Name is Lewis , King of France ; My Subject's I keep under : In Blood I make all Europe quake , To be the whole World's Wonder . II The Prince of Condy , I ran down , His Friends I put in Prison : Though he was true Heir to the Crown , He was accused of Treason . And when I was set in the Throne , I Villianies contrived , To do Mischief , without Relief , Old Quarrels I revived . III . The Protestants of France did bring Me to my Coronation . For I had no right to be King , By every Man's Relation . But I have them requited well , By killing and by burning , Their Children I have forced to die , Both Hungar-starved and Mourning . IV. With Mahomet , I am Brother sworn , Against Christendom and Popery : A Tyrant great , as e'r was born , Religion I thought Foppery . They call me now , Most Christian Turk , Though Turks they do abhor me : I am the Hate of Church and State ; None such was e'r before me . V. With Germany I broke the League , A Rascal was to Poland : My Subject's I did force to beg . And broke my Word to Holland . Great Britain is King I did pull down , For I did still persuade him , To play the Fool , like Boys at School , He still bid as I bade him . VI . The Royal Heir of England is Crown , A King made of a Cushion , Was hatched by Peter ' s of Renown , That musty old Capushion . But I designed the Prince of Wales To be my Royal Brother ; That we might be , in Pedigree , Just like to one another . VII . I have been Ten times basely Poxed . And Ten times have been cured ; And Twenty times I have been Fluxed : What Pains have I endured ! Yet now I'am more perplexed in mind , Still thinking of the Danger , Of losing France , by mere Mischance , And trusting to a Stranger . VIII . For Bloody War , and Widow's Cries , I make sad Lamentation : For wicked Deeds and Perjuries , In m like to loose my Nation . Let every King be Wise by me , And rather live contented , Than hazared all , and catch a fallen , Which cannot be prevented . Printed by J.W. near Fleet-street , 1689. THE GREAT BASTAD , PROTECTOR of LITTLE ONE . Or , the Sighs of the French King under the Power of the Germane Empire ; Giving and Account of his Creuelty against the Prince of Condy , and the French Protestants ; His League with Mahomet the Great Turk ; Of his breaking the League with Germany ; of his Design with the Supposed Prince of Wales , and of his being Poxed with several Whores . To the Tune of , the Italian Duchess . I . I Am a Bastard , by my Birth , Of Popish Generation : My wicked Deeds do set me forth , To every Tongue and Nation . My Name is Lewis , King of France ; My Subject's I keep under : In Blood I make all Europe quake , To be the whole World's Wonder . II The Prince of Condy , I ran down , His Friends I put in Prison : Though he was true Heir to the Crown , He was accused of Treason . And when I was set in the Throne , I Villianies contrived , To do Mischief , without Relief , Old Quarrels I revived . III . The Protestants of France did bring Me to my Coronation . For I had no right to be King , By every Man's Relation . But I have them requited well , By killing and by burning , Their Children I have forced to die , Both Hungar-starved and Mourning . IV. With Mahomet , I am Brother sworn , Against Christendom and Popery : A Tyrant great , as e'r was born , Religion I thought Foppery . They call me now , Most Christian Turk , Though Turks they do abhor me : I am the Hate of Church and State ; None such was e'r before me . V. With Germany I broke the League , A Rascal was to Poland : My Subject's I did force to beg . And broke my Word to Holland . Great Britain is King I did pull down , For I did still persuade him , To play the Fool , like Boys at School , He still bid as I bade him . VI . The Royal Heir of England is Crown , A King made of a Cushion , Was hatched by Peter ' s of Renown , That musty old Capushion . But I designed the Prince of Wales To be my Royal Brother ; That we might be , in Pedigree , Just like to one another . VII . I have been Ten times basely Poxed . And Ten times have been cured ; And Twenty times I have been Fluxed : What Pains have I endured ! Yet now I'am more perplexed in mind , Still thinking of the Danger , Of losing France , by mere Mischance , And trusting to a Stranger . VIII . For Bloody War , and Widow's Cries , I make sad Lamentation : For wicked Deeds and Perjuries , In m like to loose my Nation . Let every King be Wise by me , And rather live contented , Than hazared all , and catch a fallen , Which cannot be prevented . Printed by J.W. near Fleet-street , 1689. 