THE Modern Fanatical Reformer : OR , THE Religious State-Tinker . Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of , Liggan Water . I I'm Born of English Flesh and Blood ; And surely , for my Country's Good : For the Good o'th' Cause , I take great Pain , And Godliness is all my Gain . II It's true , some Saucy Knaves do Bawl , Nick-naming me , Fanatcik call : But Godly Meekness I profess ; A Pox confound their Wickedness ! III I hate all Noise , all Strife , and Grutch , So much as the Organs in the Church . I love all People , without Strife ; Nay , hate not even my Neighbour's Wife . IV I hate Formalities and Rules , Disputes and Canons of the Schools ; Set Times for Feasting , with Minced Pies ; I hate Plumb-Pudding , as my Eyes . V When in the State there is a Rend , Disputes betwixt King and Parliament , I then apply my Healing-Salve ; That is , I make it worse by Half . VI I Preach up Godly Reformation , And love a Pious Declaration ; I don't approve of Sabbath-Breaking , No , not a Wench in Corner squeaking . VII I love Religious Conversation , Where Godly Sighs are much in Fashion ; I love the Whites of Ladies Eyes , Their Lovely , Tender , Panting Cries . VIII I love to press my Doctrine home , And squeeze it in , as 'twere , to some . When Hearts do fail , I take their Hand , Which cannot my Warm Zeal withstand . IX I love not Those who will not Swear To be true to'th King and Queen , that are ; And if King James should come a Main , To Say and Swear as much again . X I hate Disputes of Wrong and Right , Unless we get out Living byed ; To Talk of Governments and States , Unless we gain by these Debates . XI The Surplice , Cope , and Mitre too , Are Things to me that will not do . But yet , since Sisters are permitted To come to us , they are all acquitted . XII All Men in Power I do profess , Are merely Tools of Wickedness , Unless from us they take Direction By way of Godly Saints Perfection . XIII For Great King William I do Pray , That is , if he does get the Day ; The Great and Prosperous I Bless , And who the Devil would do less ? XIV And now , to make my Application ; All things are in , or out of Fashion . Some Things are Old , and some are New , And as Things Change , so I will too . London , Printed for Rich. Kell , in West-Smithfield , 1693. THE Modern Fanatical Reformer : OR , THE Religious State-Tinker . Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of , Liggan Water . I I'm Born of English Flesh and Blood ; And surely , for my Country's Good : For the Good o'th' Cause , I take great Pain , And Godliness is all my Gain . II It's true , some Saucy Knaves do Bawl , Nick-naming me , Fanatcik call : But Godly Meekness I profess ; A Pox confound their Wickedness ! III I hate all Noise , all Strife , and Grutch , So much as the Organs in the Church . I love all People , without Strife ; Nay , hate not even my Neighbour's Wife . IV I hate Formalities and Rules , Disputes and Canons of the Schools ; Set Times for Feasting , with Minced Pies ; I hate Plumb-Pudding , as my Eyes . V When in the State there is a Rend , Disputes betwixt King and Parliament , I then apply my Healing-Salve ; That is , I make it worse by Half . VI I Preach up Godly Reformation , And love a Pious Declaration ; I don't approve of Sabbath-Breaking , No , not a Wench in Corner squeaking . VII I love Religious Conversation , Where Godly Sighs are much in Fashion ; I love the Whites of Ladies Eyes , Their Lovely , Tender , Panting Cries . VIII I love to press my Doctrine home , And squeeze it in , as 'twere , to some . When Hearts do fail , I take their Hand , Which cannot my Warm Zeal withstand . IX I love not Those who will not Swear To be true to'th King and Queen , that are ; And if King James should come a Main , To Say and Swear as much again . X I hate Disputes of Wrong and Right , Unless we get out Living byed ; To Talk of Governments and States , Unless we gain by these Debates . XI The Surplice , Cope , and Mitre too , Are Things to me that will not do . But yet , since Sisters are permitted To come to us , they are all acquitted . XII All Men in Power I do profess , Are merely Tools of Wickedness , Unless from us they take Direction By way of Godly Saints Perfection . XIII For Great King William I do Pray , That is , if he does get the Day ; The Great and Prosperous I Bless , And who the Devil would do less ? XIV And now , to make my Application ; All things are in , or out of Fashion . Some Things are Old , and some are New , And as Things Change , so I will too . London , Printed for Rich. Kell , in West-Smithfield , 1693. 