ROMES DOCTOR OR , Rare Receipts , prescribed by J . P . for the use of the late Chancellor and the Jesuits in Newgate , against they come to their Trial. Tune of , The Two English Travellers , etc . Licensed according to Order . TO H ere is a brave Docter come newly a shore , Who deals with a Conscience , to Rich & amp ; to Poor , He tells them if Curable , at the first view Commends these Receipts to the Jesuits crew . Take nine drops of Honey squeezed from a Wild-Oak , The Eyes of a Phoenix dried over the smoke , Boil these together in milk from a B ull , And when Scalding-hot , then applied to your S cull . This is well approved of in F rance and in Spain To make the wit active , and strengthen the Brain ; It makes you Courageous not searing to Die But daunting all Justice that shall you come nigh . Take 3 pound of Butter that's Chermed from Snow , With six Pullet's Eggs , new laid by a Crow Nine Ounces of amber distilled from the Air , Made into a Poultis and laid to your Ear . It preserves the hearing , and also does cause , The Patient to run down both Judges and L avus ; Strikes Witnesses Dumb that does them oppose , And make Friends of them that was lately their Foes . Take three Grains of Powder of St. Clements Bones , With the juice of the Gridiron found at St. Jones , Six Ounces of Gunpowder Ashes , likewise , Spread these on a Plaster , and lay to your Eyes . This is of such excellent virtue , that those Who look on the Patient , or touch but his Clothes , is straightway dimsighted , and cannot discern A man from a woman , a tree from a barn . Take two of the Apples of which Adam eat Six Ounces of F ern-feed that grew in the street ; With three Grains of Thunder , stopped in a Glass long Bruised well in a mortar , & amp ; touched with your Tongue . This is of such excellent virtue that he , Who tasteth but of it shall presently be ; Enabled by Eloquent speaking to clear , Himself of his crimes , he need not to fear . Take three pints of Milk that came from the late Queen With a quart of Sedition-seed steeped therein ; Eight ounces of Oil from Tenterhooks drawn All beaten to powder and cifted through Lawn . Lay these to your stomach I do you advice , And both the part grieved with oil of disguise ; It causeth men's Judgments to suit to your mind , Now Patients , I hope you will say I am kind . Take the wool of a Lobster , the Branch the Dove found And brought unto Noah when the World it was drowned Tie these in a bundle and steep them in whey That's hight from the Cow , two nights and a day . Anoint you all over each morning you rise ; It makes you invisible to the Courts Eyes , And so by that means you may scamper away And carry the Tidings to France in a day . Now if these should fail , there's one thing I have more I confident am , that will perfect the cure ; And that is a H alter , or a good Hempen-Rope To swing you from Tyburn with news to the Pope . Thus ends my Receipts , which I hope you'll commend When you come to Room , unto Peters your friend ; And tell him what benefit they were to you And now all my P atients I bid you adieu . Printed for , A. Milbourn in Green-Arbour Court in the Little-Old-Baily . ROMES DOCTOR OR , Rare Receipts , prescribed by J . P . for the use of the late Chancellor and the Jesuits in Newgate , against they come to their Trial. Tune of , The Two English Travellers , etc . Licensed according to Order . TO H ere is a brave Docter come newly a shore , Who deals with a Conscience , to Rich & amp ; to Poor , He tells them if Curable , at the first view Commends these Receipts to the Jesuits crew . Take nine drops of Honey squeezed from a Wild-Oak , The Eyes of a Phoenix dried over the smoke , Boil these together in milk from a B ull , And when Scalding-hot , then applied to your S cull . This is well approved of in F rance and in Spain To make the wit active , and strengthen the Brain ; It makes you Courageous not searing to Die But daunting all Justice that shall you come nigh . Take 3 pound of Butter that's Chermed from Snow , With six Pullet's Eggs , new laid by a Crow Nine Ounces of amber distilled from the Air , Made into a Poultis and laid to your Ear . It preserves the hearing , and also does cause , The Patient to run down both Judges and L avus ; Strikes Witnesses Dumb that does them oppose , And make Friends of them that was lately their Foes . Take three Grains of Powder of St. Clements Bones , With the juice of the Gridiron found at St. Jones , Six Ounces of Gunpowder Ashes , likewise , Spread these on a Plaster , and lay to your Eyes . This is of such excellent virtue , that those Who look on the Patient , or touch but his Clothes , is straightway dimsighted , and cannot discern A man from a woman , a tree from a barn . Take two of the Apples of which Adam eat Six Ounces of F ern-feed that grew in the street ; With three Grains of Thunder , stopped in a Glass long Bruised well in a mortar , & amp ; touched with your Tongue . This is of such excellent virtue that he , Who tasteth but of it shall presently be ; Enabled by Eloquent speaking to clear , Himself of his crimes , he need not to fear . Take three pints of Milk that came from the late Queen With a quart of Sedition-seed steeped therein ; Eight ounces of Oil from Tenterhooks drawn All beaten to powder and cifted through Lawn . Lay these to your stomach I do you advice , And both the part grieved with oil of disguise ; It causeth men's Judgments to suit to your mind , Now Patients , I hope you will say I am kind . Take the wool of a Lobster , the Branch the Dove found And brought unto Noah when the World it was drowned Tie these in a bundle and steep them in whey That's hight from the Cow , two nights and a day . Anoint you all over each morning you rise ; It makes you invisible to the Courts Eyes , And so by that means you may scamper away And carry the Tidings to France in a day . Now if these should fail , there's one thing I have more I confident am , that will perfect the cure ; And that is a H alter , or a good Hempen-Rope To swing you from Tyburn with news to the Pope . Thus ends my Receipts , which I hope you'll commend When you come to Room , unto Peters your friend ; And tell him what benefit they were to you And now all my P atients I bid you adieu . Printed for , A. Milbourn in Green-Arbour Court in the Little-Old-Baily . 