France Outwitted : OR The Duke of Richmond's Welcome into ENGLAND . Licensed according to Order . Tune of , March Boys , etc LET joyful Acclamations give , A Welcome home to Richmond is Duke , Whose noble Presence does revive , The Hearts of all who on him look ; His youthful Grace so prevail , And pleasure all that come before him ; His Princely Glories so excel , Each charming Beauty does adore him . Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of Richmond , Richmond , noble young Richmond . He joyful News from France does bring , And tells us how their Forces dread , The Glorious Actions of our King , Which over all the World are spread . He all their base Intentions tells , Which France designs against our Nation , Their Treacherous Actions he reveals , To further Englands Preservation . Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of Richmond , Richmond , noble young Richmond . Riches among the French he god , Securely lodged within his Hand , Which he to England now has brought , To spend it nobly in our Land. He's bubbled France by his Device , And gained such lasting Reputation ; Noble Richmond proved too wise , For all their French Insinuation . Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of Richmond , Richmond , noble young Richmond . Let France no more their Cunning boast , Or we their dull Contrivance fear , Since now they know it to their Cost , They're bubbled by and English Peer . The Court of France so gay and fine , In Jewels now appears but slender : Richmond by his great Design , Has fairly striped them of their Splendour . Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of Richmond , Richmond , noble young Richmond . The Riches that our Nation lost , By Female Cunning heretofore , The Ocean back again has crossed , To lodge upon the English Shore . Young Richmond by his early Wit , Has brought such Tribute back to Cesar : And when fair Portchmouth hears of it , The noble Actium sure must please her Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of R ichmond , R ichmond , noble young R ichmond . Then let's commend the noble Duke , Who thus deceived deceitful France , And such and Actium undertook , His Native Country to advance : His Game he wisely sure must play ; To put his Design in Execution , For what the Duchess took away , The Duke has made us restitution . R ichmond , R ichmond , Noble young R ichmond He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of R ichmond , R ichmond , noble young R ichmond [ . ] LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White-Friars , 1691. France Outwitted : OR The Duke of Richmond's Welcome into ENGLAND . Licensed according to Order . Tune of , March Boys , etc LET joyful Acclamations give , A Welcome home to Richmond is Duke , Whose noble Presence does revive , The Hearts of all who on him look ; His youthful Grace so prevail , And pleasure all that come before him ; His Princely Glories so excel , Each charming Beauty does adore him . Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of Richmond , Richmond , noble young Richmond . He joyful News from France does bring , And tells us how their Forces dread , The Glorious Actions of our King , Which over all the World are spread . He all their base Intentions tells , Which France designs against our Nation , Their Treacherous Actions he reveals , To further Englands Preservation . Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of Richmond , Richmond , noble young Richmond . Riches among the French he god , Securely lodged within his Hand , Which he to England now has brought , To spend it nobly in our Land. He's bubbled France by his Device , And gained such lasting Reputation ; Noble Richmond proved too wise , For all their French Insinuation . Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of Richmond , Richmond , noble young Richmond . Let France no more their Cunning boast , Or we their dull Contrivance fear , Since now they know it to their Cost , They're bubbled by and English Peer . The Court of France so gay and fine , In Jewels now appears but slender : Richmond by his great Design , Has fairly striped them of their Splendour . Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of Richmond , Richmond , noble young Richmond . The Riches that our Nation lost , By Female Cunning heretofore , The Ocean back again has crossed , To lodge upon the English Shore . Young Richmond by his early Wit , Has brought such Tribute back to Cesar : And when fair Portchmouth hears of it , The noble Actium sure must please her Richmond , Richmond , Noble young Richmond , He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of R ichmond , R ichmond , noble young R ichmond . Then let's commend the noble Duke , Who thus deceived deceitful France , And such and Actium undertook , His Native Country to advance : His Game he wisely sure must play ; To put his Design in Execution , For what the Duchess took away , The Duke has made us restitution . R ichmond , R ichmond , Noble young R ichmond He hath too Cunning been for France , Which greatly does the Fame advance , Of R ichmond , R ichmond , noble young R ichmond [ . ] LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White-Friars , 1691. 