TO : HOGAN MOGAN , OR , The Wise Men of Europe : Being and Excellent new Song , giving and Account of the Proceedings of the Royal Assembly at the Hague in Holland : Showing what Presents were sent by King William , the Duke of Bavaria , and the States of Holland , to the Pope , the Turk , the King of France , James and Marry the abdicate King and Queen ; and to his Irish Excellence the Earl of Tyrconnel . To the Tune of , The Pudding . I . THE Royal Assembly that sat at the Hague , For whipping the Britches of Lewis & amp ; Teague , Was such as no Dutch-Man hath seen heretofore , Nor ever hath been , since old Babylon's Whore , In all Europe . II The brave King of Britain he sat on a Throne , Of Gold , set with Dimonds ; and other such Stone : While the great Hogan Mogan a Crown did present , Which gave to his Majesty more than Content , In the Meeting . III . To Lewis l Grand , the King Bastard of France , They pricked out a Tune , the next Summer to dance ; And sent him Confusion , well cramed in a Box , With the Faith of and Infidel spiced with the POX , In a Placket . IV. The next pretty Fancy the Dutchman did bring , Was a Present to send to the abdicat King , The Oath of Allegiance , to keep to his Heir , With a Coat that was made of the Crocadale ' s Hair , Now in Fashion . V. Another fine Present , as ever was seen , They sent to old Mally , that once was our Queen , A Locket of Sorrow that Petres had made , With the Phoenix Tail-feathers , to Topknot her Head , At Confession . VI . King William of England , he sent to the Pope , A Bag full of Cutthroats , well ty d with a Roap ; But Melfort , that abdicate Scotchman of State , He met with the Bearer , and swore it was late for a Halter . VII . They sent to the late abdicated King James , A Plot that was found in the mouth of the Thames , And by the Lord E --- y they sent him a Knell , With a little young Jacobite crushed in the Shell , When a hatching . VIII . The Duke of Bavaria wrote to the Turk , To hang his Grand Visier up with a jerk , And bade him remember what Frederick had done , When first he besieged Jerusalem Town , Both and took it . IX . He sent him the Money that Lewis le Grand , Had promised to pay him , and givened under hand , To weaken the Beast and the Dragon of Room , That he might be Monarch of all Christendom , Oh brave Bastard . X. King William he sent to this Turk-Runagado , A Ship that was sunk in the Spanish Armado ; And bade him remember King Philip of Spain ; For Grizel will never be trusted again , On the Ocean . XI . He sent to Tyrconnel and Ass and and Hog , As said the old Prophecy found in a Bog , Wrapped up into Leather , the writ to defend , But his ruling of Ireland is come to and End , With his Honour . XII . When all these fine Presents were shipped away , The Bishop of Cologne the Grace he did say ; They went to their Supper , and laid by their Books , On Capons and Codlens , and Buckety-cooks , Well becompt you . Printed and Sold by J. Wallis between the Two Gateway going into White-Fryars , 1691. TO : HOGAN MOGAN , OR , The Wise Men of Europe : Being and Excellent new Song , giving and Account of the Proceedings of the Royal Assembly at the Hague in Holland : Showing what Presents were sent by King William , the Duke of Bavaria , and the States of Holland , to the Pope , the Turk , the King of France , James and Marry the abdicate King and Queen ; and to his Irish Excellence the Earl of Tyrconnel . To the Tune of , The Pudding . I . THE Royal Assembly that sat at the Hague , For whipping the Britches of Lewis & amp ; Teague , Was such as no Dutch-Man hath seen heretofore , Nor ever hath been , since old Babylon's Whore , In all Europe . II The brave King of Britain he sat on a Throne , Of Gold , set with Dimonds ; and other such Stone : While the great Hogan Mogan a Crown did present , Which gave to his Majesty more than Content , In the Meeting . III . To Lewis l Grand , the King Bastard of France , They pricked out a Tune , the next Summer to dance ; And sent him Confusion , well cramed in a Box , With the Faith of and Infidel spiced with the POX , In a Placket . IV. The next pretty Fancy the Dutchman did bring , Was a Present to send to the abdicat King , The Oath of Allegiance , to keep to his Heir , With a Coat that was made of the Crocadale ' s Hair , Now in Fashion . V. Another fine Present , as ever was seen , They sent to old Mally , that once was our Queen , A Locket of Sorrow that Petres had made , With the Phoenix Tail-feathers , to Topknot her Head , At Confession . VI . King William of England , he sent to the Pope , A Bag full of Cutthroats , well ty d with a Roap ; But Melfort , that abdicate Scotchman of State , He met with the Bearer , and swore it was late for a Halter . VII . They sent to the late abdicated King James , A Plot that was found in the mouth of the Thames , And by the Lord E --- y they sent him a Knell , With a little young Jacobite crushed in the Shell , When a hatching . VIII . The Duke of Bavaria wrote to the Turk , To hang his Grand Visier up with a jerk , And bade him remember what Frederick had done , When first he besieged Jerusalem Town , Both and took it . IX . He sent him the Money that Lewis le Grand , Had promised to pay him , and givened under hand , To weaken the Beast and the Dragon of Room , That he might be Monarch of all Christendom , Oh brave Bastard . X. King William he sent to this Turk-Runagado , A Ship that was sunk in the Spanish Armado ; And bade him remember King Philip of Spain ; For Grizel will never be trusted again , On the Ocean . XI . He sent to Tyrconnel and Ass and and Hog , As said the old Prophecy found in a Bog , Wrapped up into Leather , the writ to defend , But his ruling of Ireland is come to and End , With his Honour . XII . When all these fine Presents were shipped away , The Bishop of Cologne the Grace he did say ; They went to their Supper , and laid by their Books , On Capons and Codlens , and Buckety-cooks , Well becompt you . Printed and Sold by J. Wallis between the Two Gateway going into White-Fryars , 1691. 