The Princely Scuffle : Or , And Account of the Late Famous Duel , which happened betwixt the Princes of Wales , and the Young Duke of Berry , one of the French King's Grand sons . ALL you that pass by , I pray you draw nigh , Attend to my Song , without ever a Lie ; There chanced tother day , a most Tragical Fray Between Two Young Princes , as they were at play In a Garden . The One he was bold , being Four Years old , And scorned by a Tyler for to be Controlled ; Yet though he was Young , he could handle his Tongue , And called his Welsh-Highness i'th' midst of a Throng , English Bastard . The Other so Wise , did the Dauphin despise , His Countenance showed , his Flesh at him did rise ; Quoth he , How I Itch , to have a Found Twitch At that French Saucy Son of a Bitch . The Young Dauphine . Dauphine Begar , dost dou come , to beatrice me at Home ; Nay , if it be so , den have at die Bum , That none may ever say , of me another day , I dishonoured myself , in Running away From a Tyler . P. of WALES . French Dog , dost thou think , I ever will shrink ? No , ever I have done , thy French Hide it shall stink : Then do not suppose , I am one of those , That will run away for one Bloody Nose ; No , I Scorn it . Though my Rigid Fate , has exposed me to hate , And am , like and Old Almanac , quite out of date ; Yet still there remains , English Blood in my Veins ; Then hold your French Tongue , or I'll beatrice out your Brains , You Young Urchin . At this Dauphine Hist , and up with his Fist ; But the Prince he drew back , and the Dauphine he missed : And the Prince to repay , his kindness , they say , Knocked the Young Dauphin down , and there the Rogue lay For and Hour . But being Revived , together they strived , And ever they had done , the late Queen she arrived ; Who seeing the Battle fought on with such mettle , She set up her Notes , and made the Air rattle Like Thunder . Pray part them , she cried : The French King replied , I cannot tell which has the best on his side : Then part not the Chits ; you Rogues , look to your Hits ; At which , the late Queen , she fell into Fits. And no Wonder . For such a sad Maul , there never did fallen , Since J ---- es , for not Fighting , she beatrice at W -- tO -- h -- ll ; And so these Young Sparks , did Fight like two Sharks , That on both their Bodies , you might see the Marks A Month after . The French K -- did say , They shall have fair play ; This is not diversion , I have e'ry day ; With that they did Fight , in Earnest outright , And the Welsh Prince he Worsted the Young Dauphine quite , That he Cried . And then the Late Queen , who the Duel had seen , And saw her Son's Nose bleed , so raised her Spleen , That she stepped to the Dauphine , who was crying and coughing , Quoth she , You Young Bastard , your Grandfathers huffing Shant daunt me . Without any delay , she began a new Fray , And flew at Old Lewis , and beatrice him they say , That he Rolled in his Gore , and his Flesh it was soar ; Beside it is said , She in Fury Tore Off his Whiskers . But a great English Peer . who chanced to be near , And so this Confusion he Fortuned to hear , Stepped in to make Peace , which they all did Embrace , And the Queen gave Old Lewis a Plaster for's Face , So they Parted [ . ] FINIS . Translated from the Original , Printed at AMSTERDAM . The Princely Scuffle : Or , And Account of the Late Famous Duel , which happened betwixt the Princes of Wales , and the Young Duke of Berry , one of the French King's Grand sons . ALL you that pass by , I pray you draw nigh , Attend to my Song , without ever a Lie ; There chanced tother day , a most Tragical Fray Between Two Young Princes , as they were at play In a Garden . The One he was bold , being Four Years old , And scorned by a Tyler for to be Controlled ; Yet though he was Young , he could handle his Tongue , And called his Welsh-Highness i'th' midst of a Throng , English Bastard . The Other so Wise , did the Dauphin despise , His Countenance showed , his Flesh at him did rise ; Quoth he , How I Itch , to have a Found Twitch At that French Saucy Son of a Bitch . The Young Dauphine . Dauphine Begar , dost dou come , to beatrice me at Home ; Nay , if it be so , den have at die Bum , That none may ever say , of me another day , I dishonoured myself , in Running away From a Tyler . P. of WALES . French Dog , dost thou think , I ever will shrink ? No , ever I have done , thy French Hide it shall stink : Then do not suppose , I am one of those , That will run away for one Bloody Nose ; No , I Scorn it . Though my Rigid Fate , has exposed me to hate , And am , like and Old Almanac , quite out of date ; Yet still there remains , English Blood in my Veins ; Then hold your French Tongue , or I'll beatrice out your Brains , You Young Urchin . At this Dauphine Hist , and up with his Fist ; But the Prince he drew back , and the Dauphine he missed : And the Prince to repay , his kindness , they say , Knocked the Young Dauphin down , and there the Rogue lay For and Hour . But being Revived , together they strived , And ever they had done , the late Queen she arrived ; Who seeing the Battle fought on with such mettle , She set up her Notes , and made the Air rattle Like Thunder . Pray part them , she cried : The French King replied , I cannot tell which has the best on his side : Then part not the Chits ; you Rogues , look to your Hits ; At which , the late Queen , she fell into Fits. And no Wonder . For such a sad Maul , there never did fallen , Since J ---- es , for not Fighting , she beatrice at W -- tO -- h -- ll ; And so these Young Sparks , did Fight like two Sharks , That on both their Bodies , you might see the Marks A Month after . The French K -- did say , They shall have fair play ; This is not diversion , I have e'ry day ; With that they did Fight , in Earnest outright , And the Welsh Prince he Worsted the Young Dauphine quite , That he Cried . And then the Late Queen , who the Duel had seen , And saw her Son's Nose bleed , so raised her Spleen , That she stepped to the Dauphine , who was crying and coughing , Quoth she , You Young Bastard , your Grandfathers huffing Shant daunt me . Without any delay , she began a new Fray , And flew at Old Lewis , and beatrice him they say , That he Rolled in his Gore , and his Flesh it was soar ; Beside it is said , She in Fury Tore Off his Whiskers . But a great English Peer . who chanced to be near , And so this Confusion he Fortuned to hear , Stepped in to make Peace , which they all did Embrace , And the Queen gave Old Lewis a Plaster for's Face , So they Parted [ . ] FINIS . Translated from the Original , Printed at AMSTERDAM . 