THE Civil ORANGE : OR , THE United Hearts of England . Being the Courageous Protestant Boys Resolutions against the Enemies of the Church and State . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . ( 1 ) NOw now all our doubts and our troubles are cleared , And every Protestants Heart may be cheered ; For here is brave Orange that Sailed over the Seas , Which gives to all Souls in the Nation much ease , He ventured his Life in this Nations defence , O still let us prize this true Protestant Prince . ( 2 ) The Glory of Brittain begins to appear , And Protestants may be released from all fear ; The Roman we now do resolve to run down , We fear not their Malice , although they may frown ; And Army we have that will drive them from hence , And bravely fight under a Protestant Prince . ( 3 ) What danger did seem for to threaten this Land , While Room and her Agents contending did stand ? They reckoned that Protestants must be subdued , But they shall no longer this Nation delude , Our thundering Cannons shall Papists convince , While here we fight under a Protestant Prince . ( 4 ) Let every Soul lay his hand on his Heart , And rather with Life , nay , and all Riches part , Then once to appear in a Cowardly strain , Since such a brave Hero failed over the main , Let's stand by his side in the Nations defence , For he's a most noble brave Protestant Prince . ( 5 ) It is not Tyrconnel , nor each Popish Slave , That ever shall be able this Land to outbrave ; Should it be our Fortune with them to engage , They shan't live to tell was done in this Age : Our Noble Commanders are Persons of Sense , And we'll all fight under this Protestant Prince . ( 6 ) We know if they could but a full Conquest make , We certainly soon should be brought to the Stake ; According to what they have done heretofore , They dearly thirst after true Protestants Gore ; But now having Power to drive them from hence , We'll make them all quake at a Protestant Prince . ( 7 ) If need should require and absolute aid , There's hundreds and thousands of every Trade , That freely would leave all their Callings to fight , With Courage to maintain the Protestants right , And drive all the Treacherous Enemies hence , So long as we have a true Protestant Prince . ( 8 ) Some Persons of late they did strive with the stream , And merely led on by a fair Golden Dream , And never consider what might be their Doom , By acting so much for the Agents of Room ; Oh! how they reflect on their former Offence , And tremble at feeling a Protestant Prince . ( 9 ) Brave Orange he does a Free Parliament call , In order to give satisfaction to all . That while great Concerns they do fairly Debate , Great Brittain may flourish both in Church and S tate , And Popery utterly hurried from hence , Since we do enjoy a true Protestant Prince . ( 10 ) All Protestant Souls will together Unite , And like Noble Hero's will valiantly fight , Before we will unto our Enemies yield , We all our resolved to die in the Field ; Our Courage is able the World to Convince , We'll fight by the side of a Protestant Prince . ( 11 ) Great Brittain and Hollands each flourishing Fleet , As soon as they're fi tted and perfect complete , Will Challenge our Foes to fight on the Main Should France have the mighty Armado of Spain : The Noise of our Canons shall send them from hence , And show them the strength of a Protestant Prince . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , 1689. THE Civil ORANGE : OR , THE United Hearts of England . Being the Courageous Protestant Boys Resolutions against the Enemies of the Church and State . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . ( 1 ) NOw now all our doubts and our troubles are cleared , And every Protestants Heart may be cheered ; For here is brave Orange that Sailed over the Seas , Which gives to all Souls in the Nation much ease , He ventured his Life in this Nations defence , O still let us prize this true Protestant Prince . ( 2 ) The Glory of Brittain begins to appear , And Protestants may be released from all fear ; The Roman we now do resolve to run down , We fear not their Malice , although they may frown ; And Army we have that will drive them from hence , And bravely fight under a Protestant Prince . ( 3 ) What danger did seem for to threaten this Land , While Room and her Agents contending did stand ? They reckoned that Protestants must be subdued , But they shall no longer this Nation delude , Our thundering Cannons shall Papists convince , While here we fight under a Protestant Prince . ( 4 ) Let every Soul lay his hand on his Heart , And rather with Life , nay , and all Riches part , Then once to appear in a Cowardly strain , Since such a brave Hero failed over the main , Let's stand by his side in the Nations defence , For he's a most noble brave Protestant Prince . ( 5 ) It is not Tyrconnel , nor each Popish Slave , That ever shall be able this Land to outbrave ; Should it be our Fortune with them to engage , They shan't live to tell was done in this Age : Our Noble Commanders are Persons of Sense , And we'll all fight under this Protestant Prince . ( 6 ) We know if they could but a full Conquest make , We certainly soon should be brought to the Stake ; According to what they have done heretofore , They dearly thirst after true Protestants Gore ; But now having Power to drive them from hence , We'll make them all quake at a Protestant Prince . ( 7 ) If need should require and absolute aid , There's hundreds and thousands of every Trade , That freely would leave all their Callings to fight , With Courage to maintain the Protestants right , And drive all the Treacherous Enemies hence , So long as we have a true Protestant Prince . ( 8 ) Some Persons of late they did strive with the stream , And merely led on by a fair Golden Dream , And never consider what might be their Doom , By acting so much for the Agents of Room ; Oh! how they reflect on their former Offence , And tremble at feeling a Protestant Prince . ( 9 ) Brave Orange he does a Free Parliament call , In order to give satisfaction to all . That while great Concerns they do fairly Debate , Great Brittain may flourish both in Church and S tate , And Popery utterly hurried from hence , Since we do enjoy a true Protestant Prince . ( 10 ) All Protestant Souls will together Unite , And like Noble Hero's will valiantly fight , Before we will unto our Enemies yield , We all our resolved to die in the Field ; Our Courage is able the World to Convince , We'll fight by the side of a Protestant Prince . ( 11 ) Great Brittain and Hollands each flourishing Fleet , As soon as they're fi tted and perfect complete , Will Challenge our Foes to fight on the Main Should France have the mighty Armado of Spain : The Noise of our Canons shall send them from hence , And show them the strength of a Protestant Prince . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , 1689. 