THE English PAINTER FOR The French King's Picture . To the Tune of My young Marry , etc Licensed according to Order . I. WArs and Arms , and loud Alarms are round great Princes that fit at the Helm , Then now my merry bonny Boys , ( You that are England is Joys , ) valiantly stand up for England is Realm ; Law , Religion , and every one's Right Will be lost for ever , unless you Fight , Your Horses prepare , And your Banners Fair , And march Cap-a-pee in your Armour Bright . II Tat , Rat , Too , goes the English Drum , and we fright our Foes wheresoever we come , In Bullets and in Fire Our Fame will mount higher , a Fart for the French and their Fe , fa , fum , Like Great Harry the Fifth , we'll advance , Till our English Captains do Conquer France ; Monsieur with his Riches , Beshit his Breeches , And falls down , for fear , in a dismal Trance . III . Had the Fistel , destroyed his Pist-Tail , It might have saved many Protestant's Life , The cruel bloody Monarch there Massacred every where , murdered the Husband , and killed the Wife , Time may come , to avenge all these things , Of his Reign , and Actions each Nations rings Old Neck will deceive him , And Fortune leave him , Though he thinks to Triumph over Crowns and Kings , IV. Peals of Thunder shall make him wonder , when Schomberg Marches against his Campaign , The Germanes on the other hand , In Battel-'Ray do stand , and at the Head of them Great Lorain , All his Pomp , and his Pride will come down , Now the English Forces on France do Frown , The haughty proud Caesar , Will find at Leisure , It's Folly to Fight against England is Crown . V. Blind Ambition ( his mad Physician ) do's Hoodwink Lewis from seeing his Fate , When all the whole World's at work To pull down France , and Turk , and every Diadem has a Date . Now ( it's true , ) the proud Monarch do's Rage , But we'll shut him up in and Iron Cage , To beatrice out his Brains , ( If there ought Remains , ) The Tympany-Pride we can soon assuage . VI . His cursed Cow , thought all should bow , but cursed Cows seldom do wear a long Horn , To Ruin every Nation , He thought it Salvation , such Principles do's the sweet Prince adorn , While good Princes are tender and mild , He rips up the Mother and stabs the Child ; The pretty proud Pigeon Has pure Religion Which Friars will tell you , Is fair and Mild . VII . Firing Cities ( Oh! that True Wit is , ) it carries on the good Catholic Cause , To burn the Corn in the Field , Which to Babes Food should yield , are not these lovely mild Roman Laws ? Heaven preserve us from all these sad things , And may Angels keep us with Guardian Wings , That none may destroy us , Nor France annoy us , While we give our Praise to the KING of King [ s . ] FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE English PAINTER FOR The French King's Picture . To the Tune of My young Marry , etc Licensed according to Order . I. WArs and Arms , and loud Alarms are round great Princes that fit at the Helm , Then now my merry bonny Boys , ( You that are England is Joys , ) valiantly stand up for England is Realm ; Law , Religion , and every one's Right Will be lost for ever , unless you Fight , Your Horses prepare , And your Banners Fair , And march Cap-a-pee in your Armour Bright . II Tat , Rat , Too , goes the English Drum , and we fright our Foes wheresoever we come , In Bullets and in Fire Our Fame will mount higher , a Fart for the French and their Fe , fa , fum , Like Great Harry the Fifth , we'll advance , Till our English Captains do Conquer France ; Monsieur with his Riches , Beshit his Breeches , And falls down , for fear , in a dismal Trance . III . Had the Fistel , destroyed his Pist-Tail , It might have saved many Protestant's Life , The cruel bloody Monarch there Massacred every where , murdered the Husband , and killed the Wife , Time may come , to avenge all these things , Of his Reign , and Actions each Nations rings Old Neck will deceive him , And Fortune leave him , Though he thinks to Triumph over Crowns and Kings , IV. Peals of Thunder shall make him wonder , when Schomberg Marches against his Campaign , The Germanes on the other hand , In Battel-'Ray do stand , and at the Head of them Great Lorain , All his Pomp , and his Pride will come down , Now the English Forces on France do Frown , The haughty proud Caesar , Will find at Leisure , It's Folly to Fight against England is Crown . V. Blind Ambition ( his mad Physician ) do's Hoodwink Lewis from seeing his Fate , When all the whole World's at work To pull down France , and Turk , and every Diadem has a Date . Now ( it's true , ) the proud Monarch do's Rage , But we'll shut him up in and Iron Cage , To beatrice out his Brains , ( If there ought Remains , ) The Tympany-Pride we can soon assuage . VI . His cursed Cow , thought all should bow , but cursed Cows seldom do wear a long Horn , To Ruin every Nation , He thought it Salvation , such Principles do's the sweet Prince adorn , While good Princes are tender and mild , He rips up the Mother and stabs the Child ; The pretty proud Pigeon Has pure Religion Which Friars will tell you , Is fair and Mild . VII . Firing Cities ( Oh! that True Wit is , ) it carries on the good Catholic Cause , To burn the Corn in the Field , Which to Babes Food should yield , are not these lovely mild Roman Laws ? Heaven preserve us from all these sad things , And may Angels keep us with Guardian Wings , That none may destroy us , Nor France annoy us , While we give our Praise to the KING of King [ s . ] FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 