A MAN in Favour , OR , The way to Preferment . To the Tune of , Would you be a Man of Fashion . I . WOuld you be a Man in Favour ? Would you have your Fortune kind ? Wear the Cross and Eat the Wafer , you'll have all things to your Mind : If the Priests cannot Convert you , Interest then must do the thing . There are Friars can inform you , how to please a P ------ TO ------ . II Would you see a Papist Lowering , lost in Hurry and a Fright ; With their Father Peters Scouring , glad of happy time for Flight . Stay but while the Dutch are Landed , and the show will straight appear ; When the Infernal Spirits disbanded , few will stay for Tyburn here . III . If Preferment you'd be gaining , Or advanced be nigh the Throne ; Bribe some pious Pimp , pertaining to the Whore of Babylon . Priests are now the sacred Noddies , that spur on the hateful Cause ; They from Tyburn save their Bodies , by dispensing with our Laws . IV. Peters was the Popish Darling , [ now ] has left us in the lurch , And has quite given over his snarling , and his snapping at our Church . Now the Dutch are come to right her , Peters sadly fears a Cord : For the Prince will bite the Biter , and his Holy Cheats reward . V. All you catchpole Priests be speedy , for bad Times are coming on ; Tyburn groans and will be greedy for all you that are not gone : Hast and follow Father Peters , Popery must now go down ; The King no more will trust such Creatures to be placed too nigh his Throne . VI . Now the Priests are all Confounded , and their vile Intrigues are crossed ; By the Dutch they are surrounded , and penned up within our Coast : Many Aching hearts , I fancy , are among the todpole Train , If they were god safe beyond-Sea , they never trouble us again . Printed for J.H. 1688. A MAN in Favour , OR , The way to Preferment . To the Tune of , Would you be a Man of Fashion . I . WOuld you be a Man in Favour ? Would you have your Fortune kind ? Wear the Cross and Eat the Wafer , you'll have all things to your Mind : If the Priests cannot Convert you , Interest then must do the thing . There are Friars can inform you , how to please a P ------ TO ------ . II Would you see a Papist Lowering , lost in Hurry and a Fright ; With their Father Peters Scouring , glad of happy time for Flight . Stay but while the Dutch are Landed , and the show will straight appear ; When the Infernal Spirits disbanded , few will stay for Tyburn here . III . If Preferment you'd be gaining , Or advanced be nigh the Throne ; Bribe some pious Pimp , pertaining to the Whore of Babylon . Priests are now the sacred Noddies , that spur on the hateful Cause ; They from Tyburn save their Bodies , by dispensing with our Laws . IV. Peters was the Popish Darling , [ now ] has left us in the lurch , And has quite given over his snarling , and his snapping at our Church . Now the Dutch are come to right her , Peters sadly fears a Cord : For the Prince will bite the Biter , and his Holy Cheats reward . V. All you catchpole Priests be speedy , for bad Times are coming on ; Tyburn groans and will be greedy for all you that are not gone : Hast and follow Father Peters , Popery must now go down ; The King no more will trust such Creatures to be placed too nigh his Throne . VI . Now the Priests are all Confounded , and their vile Intrigues are crossed ; By the Dutch they are surrounded , and penned up within our Coast : Many Aching hearts , I fancy , are among the todpole Train , If they were god safe beyond-Sea , they never trouble us again . Printed for J.H. 1688. 