TO : The Valiant Soldiers Lamentation , FOR The Loss of their Noble General TALMARSH , Who headed the Froces at the Decent on France , where he received his fatal Wound , of which he soon after Died , to the unspeaka - ble Grief of his Friends and Followers . To the Tune of , The Fortune of War , etc COme all you brave Heroes of Fame and Renown , Let a Tribute of Tears now run trickling down For the Loss of a Soldier that's lately deceased , You will find by these Lines he was none of the least : Therefore have we just reason , alas ! to complain , For the Valiant brave General Talmarsh is slave . He did a true Soldier of Courage appear , For his Heart was and absolute stranger to Fear , In the greatest of Danger his Life he'd expose , through Fire and Smoke in the face of his Foes , That he might the rich Trophies of Victory gain , But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . In Flanders his Valour has often been tried , When as conquering Death in full triumph did ride Through the Hosts of the French and Confederates too , With a courage undaunted he still did pursue That he might the rich Trophies of Victory gain , But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . In Ireland likewise his Valour was known At the Storming the City of famous Athlone , He in passing that River was one of the first , As a Soldier courageous and true to his Trust , That the Rights of three Kingdoms he then might maintain ; But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh in slave . So great was his Soul in the Actium of Fight That it was his Ambition and chiefest Delight To press on where the greatest of Danger appeared : For the Coast of fair France with and Army he steered , That he there might true Honour and Victory gain ; But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . Cheer up , my brave Soldiers , he often replied , By the Blessing of God we may pull down the Pride Of the huffing proud Frenchmen and make them to fly ; You Shull none of you venture , Boys , further then I . And with this Resolution he crossed the Main , But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . With courage undaunted they then did advance To the pleasant fair Banks of the Kingdom of France And although the loud Cannons like Thunder did roar , Yet he was the first Man that set foot on the shore , That he might the lost Honour of Britain regain , But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . Though in this great Actium small was his Success , Yet his Courage and Valour was never the less , He behaved himself like a General bold , While a Sword in his hand he was able to hold , That he might the rich Trophies of Honour obtain ; But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . He's freed from the Tumults and Noise of this Life , Which is nothing but War and Contention and Strife For we hope that in Regents of Joy he's at rest , Where no Warlike Alarms can his Quiet molest ; Though our Loss , it may be his unspeakable Gain , Yet we needs must lament that Great Talmarsh is slave . FINIS . London : Printed for Eben . Tracy , on Londonbridge . TO : The Valiant Soldiers Lamentation , FOR The Loss of their Noble General TALMARSH , Who headed the Froces at the Decent on France , where he received his fatal Wound , of which he soon after Died , to the unspeaka - ble Grief of his Friends and Followers . To the Tune of , The Fortune of War , etc COme all you brave Heroes of Fame and Renown , Let a Tribute of Tears now run trickling down For the Loss of a Soldier that's lately deceased , You will find by these Lines he was none of the least : Therefore have we just reason , alas ! to complain , For the Valiant brave General Talmarsh is slave . He did a true Soldier of Courage appear , For his Heart was and absolute stranger to Fear , In the greatest of Danger his Life he'd expose , through Fire and Smoke in the face of his Foes , That he might the rich Trophies of Victory gain , But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . In Flanders his Valour has often been tried , When as conquering Death in full triumph did ride Through the Hosts of the French and Confederates too , With a courage undaunted he still did pursue That he might the rich Trophies of Victory gain , But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . In Ireland likewise his Valour was known At the Storming the City of famous Athlone , He in passing that River was one of the first , As a Soldier courageous and true to his Trust , That the Rights of three Kingdoms he then might maintain ; But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh in slave . So great was his Soul in the Actium of Fight That it was his Ambition and chiefest Delight To press on where the greatest of Danger appeared : For the Coast of fair France with and Army he steered , That he there might true Honour and Victory gain ; But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . Cheer up , my brave Soldiers , he often replied , By the Blessing of God we may pull down the Pride Of the huffing proud Frenchmen and make them to fly ; You Shull none of you venture , Boys , further then I . And with this Resolution he crossed the Main , But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . With courage undaunted they then did advance To the pleasant fair Banks of the Kingdom of France And although the loud Cannons like Thunder did roar , Yet he was the first Man that set foot on the shore , That he might the lost Honour of Britain regain , But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . Though in this great Actium small was his Success , Yet his Courage and Valour was never the less , He behaved himself like a General bold , While a Sword in his hand he was able to hold , That he might the rich Trophies of Honour obtain ; But , alas ! this brave General Talmarsh is slave . He's freed from the Tumults and Noise of this Life , Which is nothing but War and Contention and Strife For we hope that in Regents of Joy he's at rest , Where no Warlike Alarms can his Quiet molest ; Though our Loss , it may be his unspeakable Gain , Yet we needs must lament that Great Talmarsh is slave . FINIS . London : Printed for Eben . Tracy , on Londonbridge . 