TO : THE Loyal STATES-MAN : OR , A Plain Description of these Present Times . Tune of , The Sages of Old ; or , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . THe Sages of old , in Prophecy told , the cause of a Nation's undoing ; But the true English breed , no Prophets do need , For each man here seeks his own ruin ; By grumbling and jars , we promote Civil wars , And preach up false Tenets too many ; We snarl and we bite , we rail and we fight for Religion , yet no man has any . II Then him let's commend , That's true to his friend , And a Miss that can wittily prattle , That delights not in blood , But draws when he should , And bravely never shrinks from a Battle ; That rails not at Kings , Nor at politic things , Nor treason does speak when he's mellow ; But takes a full glass . To King William is success , This this is the honest brave fellow . III . Church-scruples and jars , Plunge all Europe in wars , English Caesar espouses our quarrel ; Predestined to stand Against Lewes le Grand , And wear his now flourishing laurel : The cause that is best , Now comes to the test , For Heaven will no longer stand neuter , But pronounce the great doom , For old Luther or Rome , And prevent all our doubts for the future . IV. 'Twould turn a wise brain , To consider what pain Fools take to become Politicians : Fobs , Bullies , and Cits , All set up for Wits , And ingeniously hatch new divisions ; Some show their hight zeal , For a new Commonweal , And some for a new Restoration ; Thus cavel and braw l , Till the Mounsier gets all , And best proves the wit of the Nation . V. Though we medicines apply , Yet the fever swells him [ g ] h , First caused by a Catholic knot , Which no cure can gain , Till the breathing a vein , Corrects the mad pulse into quiet : Yet what ever disease , On our Country may seize , Let's drink to its healing condition ; And rather wish William Were Victor in France , Then Lewis were England is Physician . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . TO : THE Loyal STATES-MAN : OR , A Plain Description of these Present Times . Tune of , The Sages of Old ; or , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . THe Sages of old , in Prophecy told , the cause of a Nation's undoing ; But the true English breed , no Prophets do need , For each man here seeks his own ruin ; By grumbling and jars , we promote Civil wars , And preach up false Tenets too many ; We snarl and we bite , we rail and we fight for Religion , yet no man has any . II Then him let's commend , That's true to his friend , And a Miss that can wittily prattle , That delights not in blood , But draws when he should , And bravely never shrinks from a Battle ; That rails not at Kings , Nor at politic things , Nor treason does speak when he's mellow ; But takes a full glass . To King William is success , This this is the honest brave fellow . III . Church-scruples and jars , Plunge all Europe in wars , English Caesar espouses our quarrel ; Predestined to stand Against Lewes le Grand , And wear his now flourishing laurel : The cause that is best , Now comes to the test , For Heaven will no longer stand neuter , But pronounce the great doom , For old Luther or Rome , And prevent all our doubts for the future . IV. 'Twould turn a wise brain , To consider what pain Fools take to become Politicians : Fobs , Bullies , and Cits , All set up for Wits , And ingeniously hatch new divisions ; Some show their hight zeal , For a new Commonweal , And some for a new Restoration ; Thus cavel and braw l , Till the Mounsier gets all , And best proves the wit of the Nation . V. Though we medicines apply , Yet the fever swells him [ g ] h , First caused by a Catholic knot , Which no cure can gain , Till the breathing a vein , Corrects the mad pulse into quiet : Yet what ever disease , On our Country may seize , Let's drink to its healing condition ; And rather wish William Were Victor in France , Then Lewis were England is Physician . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 