TO : A CAVEAT for Tipplers : OR , A Pious and Religious Reformation , Appointed by His Sacred Majesty , for the due Obser - vance of the Sabbath , to the Honour of GOD , the Good of the KINGDOM , that Peace and Plenty may flourish upon a long and lasting Foundation . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOu Sabbath-day Tipplers , pray do not repine , That you are denied of the drinking of wine , And other strong liquours upon the Lord's Day , It is for your good ; therefore mind what I say , You will find the benefit of it I know , Both inward and outward far better you'll grow , For many a Sixpence and Shilling you ll save , While tippling on Sundays no longer we have . The Alewives cries out that the Laws are severe , Yet nevertheless I will make it appear , That while they went on in their tippling trade , Both they and their Cronies no conscience they made ; But all sermon-time they would revel and swear ; The which was notorious I needs must declare ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sundays no longer we have . That since both endangers their Bodies and Souls , For while they run on in their hectoring bowls ; The Rich was made poor , and the Poor was made worse , No clothes to their back , nor a groat in their purse ; But poverty was their companion always , While some in a Prison had ended their days ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sundays no longer we have . To fit in and Alehouse from morning to night , Both drinking and smoking the Devil's delight ; There funking Tobacco , set forth such a smell , As if they had been on the borders of Hell , Still belching forth many a horrable oath , But now let these Gallants be sober henceforth : Then many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sundays no longer we have . Some Men that has wrought for nine shillings a week , Upon the Lord's Day they would ramble to seek For jovial Companions to tipple and drink ; With whom they would waste the best part of their chink , Which they had been working for six days before , Oh this was a practice which still kept them poor ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . From Alehouse to Alehouse , they ramble and rome , And may be at night they come staggering home ; Their Wives have been careful to get them to bed , Next morning the liquour has lain in their head ; So that beside all their vast charges and cost , Both Monday and Tuesday they commonly lost ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . Smiths , Carpenters , Joiners , and Bricklayers too , House-painters and all the boon frolicsome Crew ; And many more Tradesmen which here I might name , For Sabbath-day tippling , was highly to blame , For all the day long they would tope liquour strong , By which their poor Families suffered much wrong ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , Now Sabbath-day Tippling no longer they'll have . For while they did led such extravagant lives , Behold their poor Children and sorrowful Wives At home they might fit , and without ever a bit , While Men in the Alehouse drank more than was fit ; It was but in vain for to sighs and complain , They would not their frolicsome courses refrain ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . These Fudlers then , Ralph , Robin , and Ben , They looked like dejected poor sorrowful Men ; Which often they meet here in every street , For want of strong liquour each other to treat ; Poor Fellows they're vexed and grieved to the Heart , Because with dry lips they are forced to part ; But many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . Quoth Richard to Robin , Dear Brother it's hard , That we from strong liquour should be so debarred . Adzugers , so it's , lusty Roger replies , While sorrowful tears trickle down from his eyes ; Like a Child for the Breast , they did long I protest , For a Pipe and a Pot could not be at rest ; Yet many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . Now you that are vexed at this sober Decree , Both Alewives or Fudlers who ever you be ; Be pleased to take notice of what I shall say , Is it not far better to honour the Day , Then to fit in Alehouses quaffing full bowls , Expending your Money and wronging your Souls ; Both which you may truly endeavour to save , Since tippling on Sundays no longer we have . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass , on London-bridge . TO : A CAVEAT for Tipplers : OR , A Pious and Religious Reformation , Appointed by His Sacred Majesty , for the due Obser - vance of the Sabbath , to the Honour of GOD , the Good of the KINGDOM , that Peace and Plenty may flourish upon a long and lasting Foundation . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOu Sabbath-day Tipplers , pray do not repine , That you are denied of the drinking of wine , And other strong liquours upon the Lord's Day , It is for your good ; therefore mind what I say , You will find the benefit of it I know , Both inward and outward far better you'll grow , For many a Sixpence and Shilling you ll save , While tippling on Sundays no longer we have . The Alewives cries out that the Laws are severe , Yet nevertheless I will make it appear , That while they went on in their tippling trade , Both they and their Cronies no conscience they made ; But all sermon-time they would revel and swear ; The which was notorious I needs must declare ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sundays no longer we have . That since both endangers their Bodies and Souls , For while they run on in their hectoring bowls ; The Rich was made poor , and the Poor was made worse , No clothes to their back , nor a groat in their purse ; But poverty was their companion always , While some in a Prison had ended their days ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sundays no longer we have . To fit in and Alehouse from morning to night , Both drinking and smoking the Devil's delight ; There funking Tobacco , set forth such a smell , As if they had been on the borders of Hell , Still belching forth many a horrable oath , But now let these Gallants be sober henceforth : Then many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sundays no longer we have . Some Men that has wrought for nine shillings a week , Upon the Lord's Day they would ramble to seek For jovial Companions to tipple and drink ; With whom they would waste the best part of their chink , Which they had been working for six days before , Oh this was a practice which still kept them poor ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . From Alehouse to Alehouse , they ramble and rome , And may be at night they come staggering home ; Their Wives have been careful to get them to bed , Next morning the liquour has lain in their head ; So that beside all their vast charges and cost , Both Monday and Tuesday they commonly lost ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . Smiths , Carpenters , Joiners , and Bricklayers too , House-painters and all the boon frolicsome Crew ; And many more Tradesmen which here I might name , For Sabbath-day tippling , was highly to blame , For all the day long they would tope liquour strong , By which their poor Families suffered much wrong ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , Now Sabbath-day Tippling no longer they'll have . For while they did led such extravagant lives , Behold their poor Children and sorrowful Wives At home they might fit , and without ever a bit , While Men in the Alehouse drank more than was fit ; It was but in vain for to sighs and complain , They would not their frolicsome courses refrain ; Now many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . These Fudlers then , Ralph , Robin , and Ben , They looked like dejected poor sorrowful Men ; Which often they meet here in every street , For want of strong liquour each other to treat ; Poor Fellows they're vexed and grieved to the Heart , Because with dry lips they are forced to part ; But many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . Quoth Richard to Robin , Dear Brother it's hard , That we from strong liquour should be so debarred . Adzugers , so it's , lusty Roger replies , While sorrowful tears trickle down from his eyes ; Like a Child for the Breast , they did long I protest , For a Pipe and a Pot could not be at rest ; Yet many a Sixpence and Shilling they'll save , While tippling on Sunday no longer we have . Now you that are vexed at this sober Decree , Both Alewives or Fudlers who ever you be ; Be pleased to take notice of what I shall say , Is it not far better to honour the Day , Then to fit in Alehouses quaffing full bowls , Expending your Money and wronging your Souls ; Both which you may truly endeavour to save , Since tippling on Sundays no longer we have . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass , on London-bridge . 