TO : Mr. Cressey's JUSTIFICATION OF Mr. Samuel Starkey . Whereas , Upon a misunderst [ anding ] , it was by my Direc - tion Published in the Gazette of the 1 st and 5 th of May Instant , that Samuel Starkey was gone away with Five Trunks of Stockings , as though he had not bought them ; These are therefore to Certify , that my Father Gabriel Cressey of London , Merchant , Sold and Delivered the said Stockings to the said Samuel Starkey [ for ] 832 l. 1 s . as appears by his Books of Accounts , and Bill of Parcels and Sale , signed with his own hand . And moreover , the day after I delivered them , into his Habitation and [ p ] ossession , he did accept and take his Bound [ for ] Obli - gation for payment of the said 832 l. 1 s . This I do hereby acknow - ledge and declare , in Justification of the said Samuel Starkey , that it may be known to be no Fraud , but a Debt upon Bargain and Sale , ac - cording to Law ; and that he was fully satisfied and paid the same . Witness my Hand this Eighth Day of May 1690. Lawrenc [ e ] Cressey , ON the 7th Day of May 1690 : The said Gabriel Cressey the Father , & amp ; Lawrence Cressey the Son , being satisfied their said Debt , delivered up the said Bound or O - b [ li ] gation , and also a General Release , sealed and delivered by Them , to the use of the sa [ i ] worser Samuel Starkey , in the Presence of Bartholmew Midy , M erchant . John Corbuster , M erchant . Henry Windham , M illiner , And J. Farmer , Attorney at Law . And on the same Day , the said Lawrence Cressey did , according to Agreement , go in Person to se-veral Places , where he had given the said Samuel Starkey Scandal and Disturbance , and did publicly acknowledge and declare the Substance of his said Certificate . And the next Day , the said L awrence Cressey signed , the said Certificate , in the presence of the above nam , Henry Windham , at his House at the Hand and Pen in Russel-Street in Covent-Garden . TO : Mr. Cressey's JUSTIFICATION OF Mr. Samuel Starkey . Whereas , Upon a misunderst [ anding ] , it was by my Direc - tion Published in the Gazette of the 1 st and 5 th of May Instant , that Samuel Starkey was gone away with Five Trunks of Stockings , as though he had not bought them ; These are therefore to Certify , that my Father Gabriel Cressey of London , Merchant , Sold and Delivered the said Stockings to the said Samuel Starkey [ for ] 832 l. 1 s . as appears by his Books of Accounts , and Bill of Parcels and Sale , signed with his own hand . And moreover , the day after I delivered them , into his Habitation and [ p ] ossession , he did accept and take his Bound [ for ] Obli - gation for payment of the said 832 l. 1 s . This I do hereby acknow - ledge and declare , in Justification of the said Samuel Starkey , that it may be known to be no Fraud , but a Debt upon Bargain and Sale , ac - cording to Law ; and that he was fully satisfied and paid the same . Witness my Hand this Eighth Day of May 1690. Lawrenc [ e ] Cressey , ON the 7th Day of May 1690 : The said Gabriel Cressey the Father , & amp ; Lawrence Cressey the Son , being satisfied their said Debt , delivered up the said Bound or O - b [ li ] gation , and also a General Release , sealed and delivered by Them , to the use of the sa [ i ] worser Samuel Starkey , in the Presence of Bartholmew Midy , M erchant . John Corbuster , M erchant . Henry Windham , M illiner , And J. Farmer , Attorney at Law . And on the same Day , the said Lawrence Cressey did , according to Agreement , go in Person to se-veral Places , where he had given the said Samuel Starkey Scandal and Disturbance , and did publicly acknowledge and declare the Substance of his said Certificate . And the next Day , the said L awrence Cressey signed , the said Certificate , in the presence of the above nam , Henry Windham , at his House at the Hand and Pen in Russel-Street in Covent-Garden . 