THE SHEPHERDS Observation On his DREAD of DOOMS-DAY FROM THE General WAR of Europe : Together , with his Admonition to Loyalty , that we may be all of one mind , and make our Enemies fallen before us . To and Excellent New Tune : Or , Found Boy . Licensed according to Order . STrange Wonders appear among us every Year , Which makes Engl . fear dreadful Doomsday is near All the world's up in Arms sounding fatal Alarms , All Ages and Fates now to Battle in swarms ; In Discord they contend , loving friend against Friend , Such unnatural things brings a Ruinous end . Let us pray this Confusion may soon disappear , Or we Jointly may say , dreadful Doomsday is near . Can the Crime be excused , when all Kindnesses used , And the most Royal Favours contemned and abused , Shall we liberty have , which we earnestly crave , And yet make it our study our selves to enslave , If this we can do , and our crosses renew , Then farewell to our freedom and liberty too . If this shall appear , we have reason to fear , Nay , and Jointly to say , dreadful Doomsday is near . The Nations all round in a War does abound , And there is little love , or true Loyalty found , Every watery flood now they mingle with blood , We may wish that our Foes had been cropped in their bud But alas it's in vain , still a War they maintain , And it's sad to consider what thousands are slave ; For the sword does appear from the front to the rear , Therefore well may we fear dreadful Doomsday is near . Were we all of a mind we might happiness find , But alas ! we are subject to turn with the wind , Here's one is for Peter , another for Paul , A third is for Caesar , but GOD for us all , That our Joys may increase , & amp ; our troubles all cease , And the War swallowed up in a flourishing Peace . For while swords do appear from the front to the rear , We have reason to fear dreadful Doomsday is near . Men's hearts they are grown like the hard marblestone , That has no sense of feeling , was ever the like known . There's no pity at all , though thousands do fallen , Of renowned brave soldiers , stout , proper and tall , For Europe all over now is sprinkled with gore , Nay , the Raging wide Ocean as well as the shore . Since it is so severe , we have reason to fear , And conclude with our selves dreadful Doomsday is near . Ambition is bold , and will not be controlled At the infinite charge of bright sliver and gold , Disolation is made , Towns and Castles betrayed , When will this confusion and storm be allayed , Would all was agreed , for it's dreadful indeed , when we think how the Nations all round us do breed Was it ever so severe ? we have reason to fear , By the woeful effects dreadful Doomsday is near . Poor widows complain that their Husbands are slave , Likewise Fatherless Infants feel sorrow and pain , F or peace let's contrive all our hearts to revive , F or a War parts the dearest Relations alive , There is fire and kill , taking Prisoners still . This is dreadful confusion go which way you will , Should it hold so severe , we have reason to fear , By the woeful effects dreadful Doomsday is near . By fancy we range , now methinks it is stange , That we should be a people so subject to change Like the weather and wind , by experience we find There is hardly two Ages found both of one mind , Which I very well know is the cause of our woe , Wherefore let us honest and loyal also , And if thus we appear , then we need not to fear And danger , though Doomsday be never so near . When Peace we obtain in this Nation again , Then Strephon and Phillis , with Flecks on the plain , Shall have freedom of Joys from the clamorous noise Of the fire and sword , which so many destroys , They shall then fit and sing , like Birds in the spring , With a Consort of Voices , crying God save the King Which is sweet to the ear , and void of all fear , Likewise Love on , though Doomsday be never so near . Printed for Charles Bates at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . THE SHEPHERDS Observation On his DREAD of DOOMS-DAY FROM THE General WAR of Europe : Together , with his Admonition to Loyalty , that we may be all of one mind , and make our Enemies fallen before us . To and Excellent New Tune : Or , Found Boy . Licensed according to Order . STrange Wonders appear among us every Year , Which makes Engl . fear dreadful Doomsday is near All the world's up in Arms sounding fatal Alarms , All Ages and Fates now to Battle in swarms ; In Discord they contend , loving friend against Friend , Such unnatural things brings a Ruinous end . Let us pray this Confusion may soon disappear , Or we Jointly may say , dreadful Doomsday is near . Can the Crime be excused , when all Kindnesses used , And the most Royal Favours contemned and abused , Shall we liberty have , which we earnestly crave , And yet make it our study our selves to enslave , If this we can do , and our crosses renew , Then farewell to our freedom and liberty too . If this shall appear , we have reason to fear , Nay , and Jointly to say , dreadful Doomsday is near . The Nations all round in a War does abound , And there is little love , or true Loyalty found , Every watery flood now they mingle with blood , We may wish that our Foes had been cropped in their bud But alas it's in vain , still a War they maintain , And it's sad to consider what thousands are slave ; For the sword does appear from the front to the rear , Therefore well may we fear dreadful Doomsday is near . Were we all of a mind we might happiness find , But alas ! we are subject to turn with the wind , Here's one is for Peter , another for Paul , A third is for Caesar , but GOD for us all , That our Joys may increase , & amp ; our troubles all cease , And the War swallowed up in a flourishing Peace . For while swords do appear from the front to the rear , We have reason to fear dreadful Doomsday is near . Men's hearts they are grown like the hard marblestone , That has no sense of feeling , was ever the like known . There's no pity at all , though thousands do fallen , Of renowned brave soldiers , stout , proper and tall , For Europe all over now is sprinkled with gore , Nay , the Raging wide Ocean as well as the shore . Since it is so severe , we have reason to fear , And conclude with our selves dreadful Doomsday is near . Ambition is bold , and will not be controlled At the infinite charge of bright sliver and gold , Disolation is made , Towns and Castles betrayed , When will this confusion and storm be allayed , Would all was agreed , for it's dreadful indeed , when we think how the Nations all round us do breed Was it ever so severe ? we have reason to fear , By the woeful effects dreadful Doomsday is near . Poor widows complain that their Husbands are slave , Likewise Fatherless Infants feel sorrow and pain , F or peace let's contrive all our hearts to revive , F or a War parts the dearest Relations alive , There is fire and kill , taking Prisoners still . This is dreadful confusion go which way you will , Should it hold so severe , we have reason to fear , By the woeful effects dreadful Doomsday is near . By fancy we range , now methinks it is stange , That we should be a people so subject to change Like the weather and wind , by experience we find There is hardly two Ages found both of one mind , Which I very well know is the cause of our woe , Wherefore let us honest and loyal also , And if thus we appear , then we need not to fear And danger , though Doomsday be never so near . When Peace we obtain in this Nation again , Then Strephon and Phillis , with Flecks on the plain , Shall have freedom of Joys from the clamorous noise Of the fire and sword , which so many destroys , They shall then fit and sing , like Birds in the spring , With a Consort of Voices , crying God save the King Which is sweet to the ear , and void of all fear , Likewise Love on , though Doomsday be never so near . Printed for Charles Bates at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . 