TO : Scandalous FULLER Rewarded , OR ; The Impostures Doom . With FULLER is Lamentation and Confession , etc . To the Tune of , Down with they , etc LET Knaves and Fools lament At Fullers Punishment , While honest Men of Sense Laugh and sing : But let all the whining Saints , Who daily make Complaints , Now rejoice he has missed the Hempen string , string , string . Let Rogues in Saints disguise Now comment upon his Lies , While the mortifying Lash Makes him Skip ; And exactly to the Notes Of his Borther Titus Oates , When he Dances to The Tune of the Whip , whip , whip . But before he takes his Dance he is forced to Advance , To and Ancient Wooden Castle of very high Renown ; Where Multitudes attend him , and many do befriend him And wish he may never more come down , down , down . Sure all the hopeful Crew , that believed his Lies were true , And assisted him so freely with their Coin ; Will now to save his B um raise him such a mighty Sum As will quickly Pay off all his fine , fine , fine . the B rethren of the Tribe , If ever you gave a bribe , Let your Money fly about at this time ; Or else I much Admire , if such a common Liar , He is not rewarded for his Crime , crime , crime . Sure Oats and he were twins , they're so like in all their Sins ; For both Swearing and Lying is their Rule , Though one is Old and Grave he is still as great a Knave B ut Fuller he is much the greater Fool , Fool , Fool. Where's now his famous Plot made about the Lord knows what , And true Mother of a Child of mighty high Renown ! His Witnesses from far , And strange wonders at the Bar ! Alas they are quite tumbled down , down , down . Fuller's Lamentation and Confession . I weep at Disappointments , and mourn for want of Ointments ; The plaguy cursed stripes are so smart ; B ut good Fortune was so choice as makes me to rejoice , B ecause I escaped the Cart , Cart , Cart. Farewell to all that fed me , and loved me as they read me , Now fortune upon me does frown ; You silly Whiggish Sots who were Nursers of my Plots , You must all of you tumble , tumble , down , down . Let Plotters of all sizes that Cheats and Lies devises , Take warning by the Punishment which now I undergo , While I do weep and Languish at this my dismal Anguish , For forging that which I did never know , know , know . London , Printed for Whitherington and Jones , two Statues in Room . TO : Scandalous FULLER Rewarded , OR ; The Impostures Doom . With FULLER is Lamentation and Confession , etc . To the Tune of , Down with they , etc LET Knaves and Fools lament At Fullers Punishment , While honest Men of Sense Laugh and sing : But let all the whining Saints , Who daily make Complaints , Now rejoice he has missed the Hempen string , string , string . Let Rogues in Saints disguise Now comment upon his Lies , While the mortifying Lash Makes him Skip ; And exactly to the Notes Of his Borther Titus Oates , When he Dances to The Tune of the Whip , whip , whip . But before he takes his Dance he is forced to Advance , To and Ancient Wooden Castle of very high Renown ; Where Multitudes attend him , and many do befriend him And wish he may never more come down , down , down . Sure all the hopeful Crew , that believed his Lies were true , And assisted him so freely with their Coin ; Will now to save his B um raise him such a mighty Sum As will quickly Pay off all his fine , fine , fine . the B rethren of the Tribe , If ever you gave a bribe , Let your Money fly about at this time ; Or else I much Admire , if such a common Liar , He is not rewarded for his Crime , crime , crime . Sure Oats and he were twins , they're so like in all their Sins ; For both Swearing and Lying is their Rule , Though one is Old and Grave he is still as great a Knave B ut Fuller he is much the greater Fool , Fool , Fool. Where's now his famous Plot made about the Lord knows what , And true Mother of a Child of mighty high Renown ! His Witnesses from far , And strange wonders at the Bar ! Alas they are quite tumbled down , down , down . Fuller's Lamentation and Confession . I weep at Disappointments , and mourn for want of Ointments ; The plaguy cursed stripes are so smart ; B ut good Fortune was so choice as makes me to rejoice , B ecause I escaped the Cart , Cart , Cart. Farewell to all that fed me , and loved me as they read me , Now fortune upon me does frown ; You silly Whiggish Sots who were Nursers of my Plots , You must all of you tumble , tumble , down , down . Let Plotters of all sizes that Cheats and Lies devises , Take warning by the Punishment which now I undergo , While I do weep and Languish at this my dismal Anguish , For forging that which I did never know , know , know . London , Printed for Whitherington and Jones , two Statues in Room . 