TO : A TRIBUTE of TEARS : OR , The Loyal Subject's sorrowful Lamentation for the Death of William the Third , King of Engand , Scotland , France , and Ireland , etc who departed this Life at Kensington , on the 8th of this Instant March 1702 to the Unspeakable Grief of the Mourning Court and Kingdom . Tune of , My B [ l ] eedin [ g ] Heart . Licensed according to Order . WIth bleedi [ n ] g Heart and melting Eyes , With inward Sobs and dismal Cries ; The most unwell [ c ] ome News I bring , Of our Great Sovereign Lord the King ; Who by the fatal Hand of Death , Resigned his Kingdoms , Crown and Breath ; That did the Royal Sceptre sway In Triumph , but the other Day . When Kn [ i ] ghts and Nobles bowed their Knee , Beforehis Royal Majesty ; Expecting that they might ' [ s ] py , A Princely Answer in his Eye , The ' special Favours which the [ y ] sought : But now his Crowned Head is brought Near to the Shadows of the Grave , None able was his Life to save . O! most uncertain World below , Subj [ e ] ct to Change thou art we know ; Nothing is lasting here , for why ? This Day we Live , to Morrow Die . And puts a Perjod to our Cares , Our large Designs in great Affairs ; As by our Gracious King we find , Who left us all in Tears behind Of melting Sorrow , Care and Grief , Who came to yield the Land Relief , When we were in a Mourning State , And threatened by proud Room of late . His Courage soon dispersed our Fears , And wiped away our weeping Tears ; By yielding us Relief from Rome , Preparing was our fatal Doom . A Friend he was to us indeed , A Friend that came in Time of Need , To Work our great Deliverance , Curbing that [ e ] growing Pride of France . But now by Death he's snatched away , What will United Princes say ? When this sad Tidings they receive How will they Sighs , Lament and Grieve ? They'll want his Conduct in the Field , They'll want his Counsel which did yield The best Directions for the Work , To Overcome the Christian Turk . But G [ oh ] worser was pleased to call him hence , In his due time to Recompense , His Labours with a Glorious Crown Which cannot shake , nor tumble down . Where with his Queen he does reside ; And since they both are Glorified Let us not Sighs nor Weep in vain , Our Loss is there eternal Gain . Freed from the Troubles of this Life , Nay , Wars and all contenteous Strife , In Region of Eternal Rest , Where nothing can their Peace molest . And having run the human Raze Behold through God's especial Grace , The Princes ANN their Place Supplies , Lord , Counsel her , and make her Wise To Govern well in Church and State : May ever Blessed Angels wait Upon her Royal Majesty , That Blessings may her Portion be . London : Printed for E. Tracy , at the three Bibles , on London-bridge . TO : A TRIBUTE of TEARS : OR , The Loyal Subject's sorrowful Lamentation for the Death of William the Third , King of Engand , Scotland , France , and Ireland , etc who departed this Life at Kensington , on the 8th of this Instant March 1702 to the Unspeakable Grief of the Mourning Court and Kingdom . Tune of , My B [ l ] eedin [ g ] Heart . Licensed according to Order . WIth bleedi [ n ] g Heart and melting Eyes , With inward Sobs and dismal Cries ; The most unwell [ c ] ome News I bring , Of our Great Sovereign Lord the King ; Who by the fatal Hand of Death , Resigned his Kingdoms , Crown and Breath ; That did the Royal Sceptre sway In Triumph , but the other Day . When Kn [ i ] ghts and Nobles bowed their Knee , Beforehis Royal Majesty ; Expecting that they might ' [ s ] py , A Princely Answer in his Eye , The ' special Favours which the [ y ] sought : But now his Crowned Head is brought Near to the Shadows of the Grave , None able was his Life to save . O! most uncertain World below , Subj [ e ] ct to Change thou art we know ; Nothing is lasting here , for why ? This Day we Live , to Morrow Die . And puts a Perjod to our Cares , Our large Designs in great Affairs ; As by our Gracious King we find , Who left us all in Tears behind Of melting Sorrow , Care and Grief , Who came to yield the Land Relief , When we were in a Mourning State , And threatened by proud Room of late . His Courage soon dispersed our Fears , And wiped away our weeping Tears ; By yielding us Relief from Rome , Preparing was our fatal Doom . A Friend he was to us indeed , A Friend that came in Time of Need , To Work our great Deliverance , Curbing that [ e ] growing Pride of France . But now by Death he's snatched away , What will United Princes say ? When this sad Tidings they receive How will they Sighs , Lament and Grieve ? They'll want his Conduct in the Field , They'll want his Counsel which did yield The best Directions for the Work , To Overcome the Christian Turk . But G [ oh ] worser was pleased to call him hence , In his due time to Recompense , His Labours with a Glorious Crown Which cannot shake , nor tumble down . Where with his Queen he does reside ; And since they both are Glorified Let us not Sighs nor Weep in vain , Our Loss is there eternal Gain . Freed from the Troubles of this Life , Nay , Wars and all contenteous Strife , In Region of Eternal Rest , Where nothing can their Peace molest . And having run the human Raze Behold through God's especial Grace , The Princes ANN their Place Supplies , Lord , Counsel her , and make her Wise To Govern well in Church and State : May ever Blessed Angels wait Upon her Royal Majesty , That Blessings may her Portion be . London : Printed for E. Tracy , at the three Bibles , on London-bridge . 