TO : The Protestant Queen : OR , The Glorious Proclaiming her Royal Highness Princiss Ann of Denmark , Queen of England , Scotland , France and Ireland , on the 8th . of March . 1702. on the Joy and Satisfaction of all Loyal and Loving Subject's . To the Tune of , Did you not here of a Gallant Sailor . I Must confess that we all lamented , the sudden Death of our Gracious King , Both Lords & amp ; Commons were discontented who then in sorrow their hands did wring , But here's a blessing we are possessing , the which may Comfort our hearts again , And glad the Nation by Proclamation , Queen Ann has fairly began her Reign . Through London City in various places , this happy sighed was in Triumph seen , Both Nobles , Heralds , and Golden Maces , was at proclaiming our Royal Queen , With Pomp attended 'twas great and splendid , our sorrows now are to comforts grown , Because a blessing we are possessing , Queen Ann the glory of Englands Throne . Here might you see a strange alteration , those that did weep in the Morning soon , Was pleased and Smiled at the Proclamation , which was near five in the Afternoon , No Soul seemed fearful , all glad and cheerful , their sorrows now was to Comforts grown , Our Royal Princess her Reign commences , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . Now let her Subject's be true and loyal , with her sweets presence new Joys she brings , A Princess born of the true blood Royal descended down from a Raze Kigns , Which are deceased from Cares released now she is come to Enjoy her own , This happy blessing we're now possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . We may observe by her declaration , that she'll endeavour to imitate , Elixabeth in this Royal Station , who was both powerful good and great , All hearts surrender to our Defender , of all that ever we can call our own , Our Laws to Nourish , long may she flourish , with brightness on the imperial Throne . She told her Counsel at the first meeting , what sense she had of our present state , Who was well pleased at her Royal greeting , while weighty matters they did debate , Through God's direction such satisfaction , she gave them that [ e ] n as it well known , That they were pleased their hearts were eased , long may she Reign on the Royal throne . She is a Protestant true Proffessor , which Church she cheerfully maintain , May Heavens prosper , preserve and bless her , with a long flourishing happy Reign , As also pleasure , Joy , H onour , Treasure , now she is come to possess her own , A cheerful blessing we are possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . She has declared that she will be guided , by her grave Counsel and Parliament , From them she never will be divided , this is her Royal true intent , Thus all agreeing a happy being , will cause our foes to make sad moan , As we the blessing are still possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . O that kind H eaven once more would favour , H er Majesty with a Royal Son , That so the Line may endure for ever , and shine as bright as it ever has done , That so from dangers of popish strangers , true Subject's here may enjoy their own , And be possessing as choice ablessing , as now is on the imperial Throne . The Jacks began for to laugh and fligger , and seemed to prick up their lousy Ears , But let them know there is life and Vigor , in our blessed Queen and her Noble Peers , Enough to quail them nay scourge & amp ; jail them , if still they dare to affront the Throne , Then Jacks be quiet and make no Riot , for fear the Devil should claims his own . London , Printed for John Alkin , near Fleet streetT : The Protestant Queen : OR , The Glorious Proclaiming her Royal Highness Princiss Ann of Denmark , Queen of England , Scotland , France and Ireland , on the 8th . of March . 1702. on the Joy and Satisfaction of all Loyal and Loving Subject's . To the Tune of , Did you not here of a Gallant Sailor . I Must confess that we all lamented , the sudden Death of our Gracious King , Both Lords & amp ; Commons were discontented who then in sorrow their hands did wring , But here's a blessing we are possessing , the which may Comfort our hearts again , And glad the Nation by Proclamation , Queen Ann has fairly began her Reign . Through London City in various places , this happy sighed was in Triumph seen , Both Nobles , Heralds , and Golden Maces , was at proclaiming our Royal Queen , With Pomp attended 'twas great and splendid , our sorrows now are to comforts grown , Because a blessing we are possessing , Queen Ann the glory of Englands Throne . Here might you see a strange alteration , those that did weep in the Morning soon , Was pleased and Smiled at the Proclamation , which was near five in the Afternoon , No Soul seemed fearful , all glad and cheerful , their sorrows now was to Comforts grown , Our Royal Princess her Reign commences , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . Now let her Subject's be true and loyal , with her sweets presence new Joys she brings , A Princess born of the true blood Royal descended down from a Raze Kigns , Which are deceased from Cares released now she is come to Enjoy her own , This happy blessing we're now possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . We may observe by her declaration , that she'll endeavour to imitate , Elixabeth in this Royal Station , who was both powerful good and great , All hearts surrender to our Defender , of all that ever we can call our own , Our Laws to Nourish , long may she flourish , with brightness on the imperial Throne . She told her Counsel at the first meeting , what sense she had of our present state , Who was well pleased at her Royal greeting , while weighty matters they did debate , Through God's direction such satisfaction , she gave them that [ e ] n as it well known , That they were pleased their hearts were eased , long may she Reign on the Royal throne . She is a Protestant true Proffessor , which Church she cheerfully maintain , May Heavens prosper , preserve and bless her , with a long flourishing happy Reign , As also pleasure , Joy , H onour , Treasure , now she is come to possess her own , A cheerful blessing we are possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . She has declared that she will be guided , by her grave Counsel and Parliament , From them she never will be divided , this is her Royal true intent , Thus all agreeing a happy being , will cause our foes to make sad moan , As we the blessing are still possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . O that kind H eaven once more would favour , H er Majesty with a Royal Son , That so the Line may endure for ever , and shine as bright as it ever has done , That so from dangers of popish strangers , true Subject's here may enjoy their own , And be possessing as choice ablessing , as now is on the imperial Throne . The Jacks began for to laugh and fligger , and seemed to prick up their lousy Ears , But let them know there is life and Vigor , in our blessed Queen and her Noble Peers , Enough to quail them nay scourge & amp ; jail them , if still they dare to affront the Throne , Then Jacks be quiet and make no Riot , for fear the Devil should claims his own . London , Printed for John Alkin , near Fleet street 