TO : The Tavern Query , or The Loyal Health , To the Tune of , Jolly Bacchus , or I am the Duke of Norfolk . I . TRue English Boys be merry , And drink good Sack and Sherry , For Joy that Royal Nancy , doe's wear the Lawful Crown , Chorus . But as for Presbyterians And all the Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they down down down . II These Rogues they are the worst , For Murdering Charles the first , That ever Blessed Martyr , of very high Renown . Cho. therefore with Presbyterians , And all the Oliverians , Lets down with they , down with they down down down . III . Here's a Health to Royal Ann Boys , Two Glasses in a Hand Boys , Let's pray that she may long live , to wear , the English Crown . Cho. But as for Presybterians And all the Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they , down down down . IV. Once more we'll drink all round , With our knees upon the Ground , This a Health to the Queen and Prince , their Enemies confound : Cho , And as for Presbiterians , With all the Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they , down down down . V. All who would by stealth , Make this a common Wealth , And do not love the Right Heirs should wear the English Crown , Cho. If they are Presbyterians , Or any Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they down down down , VI . Let's join with Sword in Hand , All at the Queen's Command , And Fight all those that do oppose the Right Heirs to the Crown , Cho. If they are Presbyterians , Or other Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they dewn down down : VII . And now my Song I'll end , God prosper every F riend , Who loves the Queen & amp ; Rightful Heirs , should ever wear the Crown , Chorus . But as for Presbyterians , And all the Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they down , down , down : London , Printed for S.P. near Charing . Cross . TO : The Tavern Query , or The Loyal Health , To the Tune of , Jolly Bacchus , or I am the Duke of Norfolk . I . TRue English Boys be merry , And drink good Sack and Sherry , For Joy that Royal Nancy , doe's wear the Lawful Crown , Chorus . But as for Presbyterians And all the Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they down down down . II These Rogues they are the worst , For Murdering Charles the first , That ever Blessed Martyr , of very high Renown . Cho. therefore with Presbyterians , And all the Oliverians , Lets down with they , down with they down down down . III . Here's a Health to Royal Ann Boys , Two Glasses in a Hand Boys , Let's pray that she may long live , to wear , the English Crown . Cho. But as for Presybterians And all the Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they , down down down . IV. Once more we'll drink all round , With our knees upon the Ground , This a Health to the Queen and Prince , their Enemies confound : Cho , And as for Presbiterians , With all the Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they , down down down . V. All who would by stealth , Make this a common Wealth , And do not love the Right Heirs should wear the English Crown , Cho. If they are Presbyterians , Or any Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they down down down , VI . Let's join with Sword in Hand , All at the Queen's Command , And Fight all those that do oppose the Right Heirs to the Crown , Cho. If they are Presbyterians , Or other Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they dewn down down : VII . And now my Song I'll end , God prosper every F riend , Who loves the Queen & amp ; Rightful Heirs , should ever wear the Crown , Chorus . But as for Presbyterians , And all the Oliverians , Let's down with they , down with they down , down , down : London , Printed for S.P. near Charing . Cross . 