TO : The Westminster Wonder : Giving and Account of a Robin Redbreast , who , ever since the Queen's Funeral , continues on the top Pinnacle of the Queen's Mausoleum , or Pyramid , in the Abbey of Westminster , where he is seen and herd to sing , and will not depart the place , to the admiration of many Beholders . Tune of , Jealous Lover . YOU loyal Subject's of this Isle , Be pleased to attend a while , To this Relation which I bring ; You never herd so strange a thing , In any former Ages passed : Queen Mary died December last , And Robin Redbreast , to this day , Continues singing where she lay . Not in the mourning Chamber , no , Where Death did strike the fatal blow ; But in Westminster - Abby , where They did a Pyramid prepare , Against her solid Funeral ; This they did her Mausoleum call , Where in the Abbey it was placed , With rich and sumpt'ous Beauty graced . The very Art of Man was tried , To make it richly beautified , Angels and Cherubins of Gold , A sighed most glorious to behold . This Monument does taper rise , A Pinnacle at top likewise ; There is and eke a Wonder too , Which I declare is strange and true . This is a Wonder strange , I say , Ever since that great and solemn Day , Of the Interment of our Queen , There is a Robin Redbreast seen , Upon the very top of all : He sings a Note soft , sweet and small , Which is most pleasant for to hear , When they the Royal Place draw near . Sometime it flies a little way , Yet from the place it will not stay , But soon returns with speed again , Where it does Night and Day remain . Upon the Pinnacle it sits , Spreading the little Wings by fits , And in the very midst of Prayer , This Robin he sits singing there , And is not missed ; yet we conclude , He must fly forth sometime for Food ; Which done , his flight he back does take , And never does the place forsake . The News was carried far and near , That Robin Read breast does appear Upon the Queen's Mausoleum still , Which does all Men with wonder fill . Renowned Lords and Ladies gay , And Common People , day by day , Upon their hearing this Report , They to the Abbey still resort , Where Robin Redbreast they behold , Upon the Pinnacle of Gold ; And it's the thoughts of rich and poor , The like was never known before . A wise Astrologer declares , It is a sign that our Affairs Will be successful every Spring , Which makes the Robin Redbreast sing . He learns from these sweet Songs of Joy , That Potent France shall never destroy The Church , though good Queen Marry die ' [ worser ] For God above will be our Guide . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . TO : The Westminster Wonder : Giving and Account of a Robin Redbreast , who , ever since the Queen's Funeral , continues on the top Pinnacle of the Queen's Mausoleum , or Pyramid , in the Abbey of Westminster , where he is seen and herd to sing , and will not depart the place , to the admiration of many Beholders . Tune of , Jealous Lover . YOU loyal Subject's of this Isle , Be pleased to attend a while , To this Relation which I bring ; You never herd so strange a thing , In any former Ages passed : Queen Mary died December last , And Robin Redbreast , to this day , Continues singing where she lay . Not in the mourning Chamber , no , Where Death did strike the fatal blow ; But in Westminster - Abby , where They did a Pyramid prepare , Against her solid Funeral ; This they did her Mausoleum call , Where in the Abbey it was placed , With rich and sumpt'ous Beauty graced . The very Art of Man was tried , To make it richly beautified , Angels and Cherubins of Gold , A sighed most glorious to behold . This Monument does taper rise , A Pinnacle at top likewise ; There is and eke a Wonder too , Which I declare is strange and true . This is a Wonder strange , I say , Ever since that great and solemn Day , Of the Interment of our Queen , There is a Robin Redbreast seen , Upon the very top of all : He sings a Note soft , sweet and small , Which is most pleasant for to hear , When they the Royal Place draw near . Sometime it flies a little way , Yet from the place it will not stay , But soon returns with speed again , Where it does Night and Day remain . Upon the Pinnacle it sits , Spreading the little Wings by fits , And in the very midst of Prayer , This Robin he sits singing there , And is not missed ; yet we conclude , He must fly forth sometime for Food ; Which done , his flight he back does take , And never does the place forsake . The News was carried far and near , That Robin Read breast does appear Upon the Queen's Mausoleum still , Which does all Men with wonder fill . Renowned Lords and Ladies gay , And Common People , day by day , Upon their hearing this Report , They to the Abbey still resort , Where Robin Redbreast they behold , Upon the Pinnacle of Gold ; And it's the thoughts of rich and poor , The like was never known before . A wise Astrologer declares , It is a sign that our Affairs Will be successful every Spring , Which makes the Robin Redbreast sing . He learns from these sweet Songs of Joy , That Potent France shall never destroy The Church , though good Queen Marry die ' [ worser ] For God above will be our Guide . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 