TO : The Royal FUNERAL : OR , THE Mourning State and Solemnity OF THE FUNERAL OF MARY , Queen of ENGLAND , etc Who was Interred at Westminster , on the Fifth of March , 1695. To the Tune of , Hope's Farewell , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . HEre I write a sorrowful Ditty , for all the Protestant Nation to read , Which must needs be moved with Pity , for e'ry Heart has just reason to bleed ; Death's cruel Spleen , assaulted the Queen , When she in the hight of her Glory was seen ; Septer and Ball , Crown , Throne and all , She now has forsaken , behold her Funeral ! Lords , and likewise Ladies of Honour , while Queen Marry she was lying in State , In their Mourning they waited upon Her , their Grief and Sorrow no Tongue can relate ; Death's cruel Dart , hath pierced the Heart Of our Royal Queen Marry , and forced her to part , With Crown and Ball , Throne , Septer and all , Let Protestant Subj [ e ] cts behold her Funeral ! On the Twentieth Eight of December our most Religious Queen Marry she died , At which time the Church a dear Member did loose , for which we in Grief do abide ; The Courtly Train , do weep and complain , For to see the last Per [ i ] od of her Royal Reign ; Septer and Ball Throne Crown and all , Queen Marry hath lest , for behold her Funeral ! Mourn you Sons and Daughters of Sion , Oh mourn in Sable and sorrowful Tears , Good Queen Marry whom did rely on , is [ s ] natched from us in the prime of her Years : Many a Day in State she lay , From whence they conveyed her to Lodgins of Clay : Septer and B [ a ] ll , Throne , Crown and all , Queen Marry hath left , for behold her Funeral ! Now that Sweet and Heavenly Creature lies close confined in a Coffing of Led ; Death's sharp Arrows severely did treat her , without respect to a Queen's Crowned head ; Both High and Low must suffer the Blow , For Death in full power no Pity will show : Septer and Ball , Throne Crown and all , Queen Marry hath left , for behold her Funeral ! This Good Queen her Mercies extended to all her Subject's of e'ry Degree , So that when her Days they were Ended , no Queen was ever so Lamented as She ; Both Rich and Poor , the Nation all over , Did weep , but no Sorrow her Life could restore : Septer and Ball , Throne Cr [ oh ] wn and all , Queen Marry hath left , for behold her Funeral ! Now the Abbey is shadowed with Mourning , and with the darkest of Sable all round ; See how Things are changing and turning , for there Queen Marry in Triumph was Crowned ; Now in the room of pleasant Perfume , She lies close confined in a cold silent Tomb : Septer and Ball , Throne , Crown and all , Queen Marry hath left , for behold her Funeral ! World thy chiefest Honours are flying , there's nothing lasting among us we find ; Crowned Heads are subject to Dying , they leave their Trophies of Honour behind ; Flourish they may , yet Time will decay , And blast Earthly Glory , though never so gay : Septer and Ball , Throne , Crown and all , Queen Marry hat left , for behold her Funeral ! London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . TO : The Royal FUNERAL : OR , THE Mourning State and Solemnity OF THE FUNERAL OF MARY , Queen of ENGLAND , etc Who was Interred at Westminster , on the Fifth of March , 1695. To the Tune of , Hope's Farewell , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . HEre I write a sorrowful Ditty , for all the Protestant Nation to read , Which must needs be moved with Pity , for e'ry Heart has just reason to bleed ; Death's cruel Spleen , assaulted the Queen , When she in the hight of her Glory was seen ; Septer and Ball , Crown , Throne and all , She now has forsaken , behold her Funeral ! Lords , and likewise Ladies of Honour , while Queen Marry she was lying in State , In their Mourning they waited upon Her , their Grief and Sorrow no Tongue can relate ; Death's cruel Dart , hath pierced the Heart Of our Royal Queen Marry , and forced her to part , With Crown and Ball , Throne , Septer and all , Let Protestant Subj [ e ] cts behold her Funeral ! On the Twentieth Eight of December our most Religious Queen Marry she died , At which time the Church a dear Member did loose , for which we in Grief do abide ; The Courtly Train , do weep and complain , For to see the last Per [ i ] od of her Royal Reign ; Septer and Ball Throne Crown and all , Queen Marry hath lest , for behold her Funeral ! Mourn you Sons and Daughters of Sion , Oh mourn in Sable and sorrowful Tears , Good Queen Marry whom did rely on , is [ s ] natched from us in the prime of her Years : Many a Day in State she lay , From whence they conveyed her to Lodgins of Clay : Septer and B [ a ] ll , Throne , Crown and all , Queen Marry hath left , for behold her Funeral ! Now that Sweet and Heavenly Creature lies close confined in a Coffing of Led ; Death's sharp Arrows severely did treat her , without respect to a Queen's Crowned head ; Both High and Low must suffer the Blow , For Death in full power no Pity will show : Septer and Ball , Throne Crown and all , Queen Marry hath left , for behold her Funeral ! This Good Queen her Mercies extended to all her Subject's of e'ry Degree , So that when her Days they were Ended , no Queen was ever so Lamented as She ; Both Rich and Poor , the Nation all over , Did weep , but no Sorrow her Life could restore : Septer and Ball , Throne Cr [ oh ] wn and all , Queen Marry hath left , for behold her Funeral ! Now the Abbey is shadowed with Mourning , and with the darkest of Sable all round ; See how Things are changing and turning , for there Queen Marry in Triumph was Crowned ; Now in the room of pleasant Perfume , She lies close confined in a cold silent Tomb : Septer and Ball , Throne , Crown and all , Queen Marry hath left , for behold her Funeral ! World thy chiefest Honours are flying , there's nothing lasting among us we find ; Crowned Heads are subject to Dying , they leave their Trophies of Honour behind ; Flourish they may , yet Time will decay , And blast Earthly Glory , though never so gay : Septer and Ball , Throne , Crown and all , Queen Marry hat left , for behold her Funeral ! London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 