TO : And Answer to Unconstant WILLIAM , OR ; The Youngman's Resolution to pay the young Lasses home in their own Coin. Tune is , Here I love , there I love , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) I Am a brisk Bachelor , airy and young , who courts the young Maids with a flattering tongue I kiss and I squeeze them again and again , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 2 ) There's Bridget , nay Susan , young Nancy and Nell , To each of these Lasses fine Stories I tell , Soft Kisses I give them , a hundred and ten , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 3 ) Sometime to the Tavern with Betty I go , And like a true Lover much kindness I show , I Kiss , nay I hug and I cuddle her then , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 4 ) Sometime a young Widow I happen to meet , I tell her with smiles that her Joys I'll complete ; If she has much treasure I'll honour her then , And vow I'll be Married , but I know not when . ( 5 ) So long as she lines me with Silver and Gold , A thousand sweet Charms in her Eyes I behold , I Kiss , and I hug , and make much of her then , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 6 ) So soon as her Treasure begins to decay , I think it high time to be packing away : Now if she calls after me , I answer then , That we will be Married , but I know not when . ( 7 ) Last Week did I walk to the Royal Exchange , And there among Ladies my fancy did range , I singled out one , and I promised her then That we should be Married , but I know not when . ( 8 ) Laced Cravats and Ruffles as Presents she gave , To deck her young Lover both gallant and brave , With large protestations I promised her then , That we would be Married , but I know not when . ( 9 ) She came to my Chamber one Night , and no more , I taught her a Dance which she never knew before ; Now this being ended , I promised her then That we would be Married , but I know not when . ( 10 ) I scorn the lewd Harlots that Trade up and down , To pick up a Living all over the Town : I have pretty Lasses full Threescore and Ten , To whom I vowed Marriage , but I know not when . ( 11 ) To Sixteen young Chambermaids love I express , Who goes in their Towers , that delicate dress ; Love-Letters and Sonnets to them I do Pen , And swear I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 12 ) There's twenty young Nursery Maids in the Strand , Who every minute are at my command ; But here I live merrily , telling they then , That I will be Married , but I know not when . ( 13 ) Each pretty-faced Creature it's very well known , Will think her self blessed to have one of her own ; At which I salutingly answer they then , That we will be Married , but I know not when . ( 14 ) Sometime from the City of London I ride , Through many fair Counties to seek me a Bride ; The Country pretty Girls I cuddle then , And swear I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 15 ) If any one has a desire to know , What may be the reason I baffle them so , Young Women are seven times falser than Men , Therefore I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 16 ) I once loved a Damsel as dear as my life , I wooed her , and thought to have made her my wife ; But she proved a Wanton to all sorts of Men , Therefore I will Marry , but I know not when . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield . TO : And Answer to Unconstant WILLIAM , OR ; The Youngman's Resolution to pay the young Lasses home in their own Coin. Tune is , Here I love , there I love , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) I Am a brisk Bachelor , airy and young , who courts the young Maids with a flattering tongue I kiss and I squeeze them again and again , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 2 ) There's Bridget , nay Susan , young Nancy and Nell , To each of these Lasses fine Stories I tell , Soft Kisses I give them , a hundred and ten , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 3 ) Sometime to the Tavern with Betty I go , And like a true Lover much kindness I show , I Kiss , nay I hug and I cuddle her then , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 4 ) Sometime a young Widow I happen to meet , I tell her with smiles that her Joys I'll complete ; If she has much treasure I'll honour her then , And vow I'll be Married , but I know not when . ( 5 ) So long as she lines me with Silver and Gold , A thousand sweet Charms in her Eyes I behold , I Kiss , and I hug , and make much of her then , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 6 ) So soon as her Treasure begins to decay , I think it high time to be packing away : Now if she calls after me , I answer then , That we will be Married , but I know not when . ( 7 ) Last Week did I walk to the Royal Exchange , And there among Ladies my fancy did range , I singled out one , and I promised her then That we should be Married , but I know not when . ( 8 ) Laced Cravats and Ruffles as Presents she gave , To deck her young Lover both gallant and brave , With large protestations I promised her then , That we would be Married , but I know not when . ( 9 ) She came to my Chamber one Night , and no more , I taught her a Dance which she never knew before ; Now this being ended , I promised her then That we would be Married , but I know not when . ( 10 ) I scorn the lewd Harlots that Trade up and down , To pick up a Living all over the Town : I have pretty Lasses full Threescore and Ten , To whom I vowed Marriage , but I know not when . ( 11 ) To Sixteen young Chambermaids love I express , Who goes in their Towers , that delicate dress ; Love-Letters and Sonnets to them I do Pen , And swear I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 12 ) There's twenty young Nursery Maids in the Strand , Who every minute are at my command ; But here I live merrily , telling they then , That I will be Married , but I know not when . ( 13 ) Each pretty-faced Creature it's very well known , Will think her self blessed to have one of her own ; At which I salutingly answer they then , That we will be Married , but I know not when . ( 14 ) Sometime from the City of London I ride , Through many fair Counties to seek me a Bride ; The Country pretty Girls I cuddle then , And swear I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 15 ) If any one has a desire to know , What may be the reason I baffle them so , Young Women are seven times falser than Men , Therefore I will Marry , but I know not when . ( 16 ) I once loved a Damsel as dear as my life , I wooed her , and thought to have made her my wife ; But she proved a Wanton to all sorts of Men , Therefore I will Marry , but I know not when . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield . 