TO : Unconstant WILLIAM , OR , The Damosels Resolution to Love Indifferently all Men alike , from her Experience of his Disloyalty . To and Excellent New Tune . 1. COnstancy I am sure is not my Fate , For him I loved yesterday to day I hate : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has entangled me I know not how . 2. Of all the Youngmen that ever I did see , I loved William best , till he proved false to me : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has entangled me I know not how . 3. I loved him well , but his love it was small , And now for the future I swear to love all : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 4. For now I love Richard , Charles , Thomas and John ; I likewise love Robert that pretty Youngman : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 5. Though once I was Constant , yet now I am free , And I am resolved ever so for to be : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 6. Might I have a Miser with thousands , and more , I'ld slight him , although he my Charms would adore : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 7. I never will valve the name of a Bride , To one Huffing Gallant I'll never be tied : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 8. I now can be Coached to a Ball or a Play , And with a young Spark be Conducted away : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 9. With Twenty or more , I will reap my Delight , It is not one Strephon shall ruin me quite : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 10. My heart now will never be subject to break , Like other young Maids whom their Gallants forsake : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 11. To Lawyers , nay Scholars , and Merchant's also , My equal affections and kindness I show : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 12. I'll never be subject to any ones Frown , While I am beloved by the best in the Town ; For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 13. When leaving the City I ranged to the Court , And there with young Gallants in Pleasure I sport : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 14. I could have been Loyal to one and no more , Had I not been slighted by William before : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 15. I find by experience , Youngmen are unjust , Therefore I will now be as false as the rest : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 16. If Bachelors they , through and evil design , Let their Fancy waver , pray why may not mine ? For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has entangled me I know not how . Printed for C. Bates , near Duck-Lane-end in West-Smithfield . TO : Unconstant WILLIAM , OR , The Damosels Resolution to Love Indifferently all Men alike , from her Experience of his Disloyalty . To and Excellent New Tune . 1. COnstancy I am sure is not my Fate , For him I loved yesterday to day I hate : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has entangled me I know not how . 2. Of all the Youngmen that ever I did see , I loved William best , till he proved false to me : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has entangled me I know not how . 3. I loved him well , but his love it was small , And now for the future I swear to love all : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 4. For now I love Richard , Charles , Thomas and John ; I likewise love Robert that pretty Youngman : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 5. Though once I was Constant , yet now I am free , And I am resolved ever so for to be : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 6. Might I have a Miser with thousands , and more , I'ld slight him , although he my Charms would adore : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 7. I never will valve the name of a Bride , To one Huffing Gallant I'll never be tied : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 8. I now can be Coached to a Ball or a Play , And with a young Spark be Conducted away : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 9. With Twenty or more , I will reap my Delight , It is not one Strephon shall ruin me quite : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 10. My heart now will never be subject to break , Like other young Maids whom their Gallants forsake : For here I love , etc For L ove has entangled , etc 11. To Lawyers , nay Scholars , and Merchant's also , My equal affections and kindness I show : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 12. I'll never be subject to any ones Frown , While I am beloved by the best in the Town ; For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 13. When leaving the City I ranged to the Court , And there with young Gallants in Pleasure I sport : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 14. I could have been Loyal to one and no more , Had I not been slighted by William before : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 15. I find by experience , Youngmen are unjust , Therefore I will now be as false as the rest : For here I love , etc For Love has entangled , etc 16. If Bachelors they , through and evil design , Let their Fancy waver , pray why may not mine ? For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has entangled me I know not how . Printed for C. Bates , near Duck-Lane-end in West-Smithfield . 