THE Young Ladies Answer TO The Forsaken Lover : In Vindication of her self , for Marrying another . To and Excellent New Tune . I . BEfore you went to Town , Just at our parting , Then your Love you did own To be most lasting ; And you declared too , I should hear from you , And have a Line or two , But never had any . II Then your Vows you did seal With pressing Kisses ; Which my Heart soon did steal By those false Blisses : But when you god to Town , I was not thought on , A New Love you had found , With bigger Fortune . III . Some Months did pass away , While I expected To hear from you each day , But was neglected ; Which made me then to doubt You did deceive me , As since I've found it out How you did leave me . IV. Here is your Ring you gave When you departed ; Nothing of yours I'll have , That's so false hearted . How many Vows you made , Soft Kisses bound them ; I thought all true you said , But false I found them . V. When I found you untrue , Had you a Lordship , I'ld not be bound to you , In your false Courtship : But Fortune proved more kind , I met another , And married to my mind A Constant Lover . VI . Tho you bid Maids beware , I needs must tell you , You'll draw Maids in a Snare , If they'll believe you : Therefore Young Women the [ n ] Mind not their Wooing , For such falsehearted Men Are your undoing . VII . But if you marry him That's True and Loving , Then you will never repine , Nor ever be grieving ; For your whole Life will be Pleasant and easy , Your Love will always be Ready to please you . Printed and Sold by T. More . 1691. THE Young Ladies Answer TO The Forsaken Lover : In Vindication of her self , for Marrying another . To and Excellent New Tune . I . BEfore you went to Town , Just at our parting , Then your Love you did own To be most lasting ; And you declared too , I should hear from you , And have a Line or two , But never had any . II Then your Vows you did seal With pressing Kisses ; Which my Heart soon did steal By those false Blisses : But when you god to Town , I was not thought on , A New Love you had found , With bigger Fortune . III . Some Months did pass away , While I expected To hear from you each day , But was neglected ; Which made me then to doubt You did deceive me , As since I've found it out How you did leave me . IV. Here is your Ring you gave When you departed ; Nothing of yours I'll have , That's so false hearted . How many Vows you made , Soft Kisses bound them ; I thought all true you said , But false I found them . V. When I found you untrue , Had you a Lordship , I'ld not be bound to you , In your false Courtship : But Fortune proved more kind , I met another , And married to my mind A Constant Lover . VI . Tho you bid Maids beware , I needs must tell you , You'll draw Maids in a Snare , If they'll believe you : Therefore Young Women the [ n ] Mind not their Wooing , For such falsehearted Men Are your undoing . VII . But if you marry him That's True and Loving , Then you will never repine , Nor ever be grieving ; For your whole Life will be Pleasant and easy , Your Love will always be Ready to please you . Printed and Sold by T. More . 1691. 