The Young Lovers ENQUIRY : OR , The Bachelors Question to Cupid . To and Excellent New Air , Sung at the Play-House . IF Love's a sweet passion , why does it torment ? If a bitter , Oh tell me , whence comes my content ? Since I suffer with pleasure , why should I complain , Or grieve at my fate , when I know it's in vain , Yet so pleasing the pain is , so soft is the dart , That at once it both wounds me , and tickles my heart . II I grasp her Hand gently , look languishing down , And by passionate silence I make my love known ; But o ! how I'm blessed when so kind she does prove , By some willing mistake , to discover her love ; When in striving to hide it , she reveals all her flame , And our eyes tell each other what neither can name . III . How pleasant is beauty ? how sweet are the charms ? How delightful embraces ? how peaceful her arms ? Sure there's nothing so easy , as learning to love , It's taught us on earth , and by all things above ; And to beauty's bright standard all the hero's must yield , For it's beauty that conquers and keeps the fair field . IV. To beauty's bright sceptre thus all things do bow , It's to her that we court , and to her that we woo ; It so strangely does vanquish , and soften the mind , That we yield at first sighed , to a beauty that's kind : It's a treasure we dote on , and dream on each night , And there's nothing but beauty can breed such delight . V. As soon as the morning's bright rays I behold , ( Like a bride decked with roses , and rubies , and gold ) Straight I think on fair Celia , divine and so sweet , And long for to see her and sighs at her feet : Every moment I'm absent , I languish and die , And I live by the sweetness and beams of her eye . VI . Then grant , Oh you powers , that her I may find Always yielding to love , and most charmingly kind ; That at last by entreaties , she may be my bride , And I have the honour to lie by her side : Oh! the pleasures that beauty's can give when they please , They can wound and can cure a poor lover with ease . VII . I'll envy no princes , but sweetly will live , Rest contented with pleasures that Celia can give ; From all rivals and fears , may we both ever live free , And for ever be happy , and ever agree : Thus sweetness and innocent freedom we'll prove All the joys that kind heaven gives to those that do love . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Heart in West-Smithfield near Pye-Corner . The Young Lovers ENQUIRY : OR , The Bachelors Question to Cupid . To and Excellent New Air , Sung at the Play-House . IF Love's a sweet passion , why does it torment ? If a bitter , Oh tell me , whence comes my content ? Since I suffer with pleasure , why should I complain , Or grieve at my fate , when I know it's in vain , Yet so pleasing the pain is , so soft is the dart , That at once it both wounds me , and tickles my heart . II I grasp her Hand gently , look languishing down , And by passionate silence I make my love known ; But o ! how I'm blessed when so kind she does prove , By some willing mistake , to discover her love ; When in striving to hide it , she reveals all her flame , And our eyes tell each other what neither can name . III . How pleasant is beauty ? how sweet are the charms ? How delightful embraces ? how peaceful her arms ? Sure there's nothing so easy , as learning to love , It's taught us on earth , and by all things above ; And to beauty's bright standard all the hero's must yield , For it's beauty that conquers and keeps the fair field . IV. To beauty's bright sceptre thus all things do bow , It's to her that we court , and to her that we woo ; It so strangely does vanquish , and soften the mind , That we yield at first sighed , to a beauty that's kind : It's a treasure we dote on , and dream on each night , And there's nothing but beauty can breed such delight . V. As soon as the morning's bright rays I behold , ( Like a bride decked with roses , and rubies , and gold ) Straight I think on fair Celia , divine and so sweet , And long for to see her and sighs at her feet : Every moment I'm absent , I languish and die , And I live by the sweetness and beams of her eye . VI . Then grant , Oh you powers , that her I may find Always yielding to love , and most charmingly kind ; That at last by entreaties , she may be my bride , And I have the honour to lie by her side : Oh! the pleasures that beauty's can give when they please , They can wound and can cure a poor lover with ease . VII . I'll envy no princes , but sweetly will live , Rest contented with pleasures that Celia can give ; From all rivals and fears , may we both ever live free , And for ever be happy , and ever agree : Thus sweetness and innocent freedom we'll prove All the joys that kind heaven gives to those that do love . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Heart in West-Smithfield near Pye-Corner . 