And Excellent New SONG , Called , The LADY's Policy ; OR , The Baffled Knight . To a pleasant New Tune . THere was a Knight was drunk with Wine , A Riding along the way Sir , And there did he meet a Lady fine , And among the Cocks of Hay Sir . One Question he did crave of her , And asked her to lay her down Sir , But he had neither Cloth nor Sheet , To keep her from the Ground Sir . There is a great Due upon the Grass , And if you should lay me down Sir , You would spoil my gay Clothing , That has cost me many a Pound Sir . I have a Cloak of Scarlet Read , I'll lay it under you Love , So you will grant me my Request , That I shall ask of you Love . And if you'll go to my Father's Hall , That is Moated all round about Sir , There you shall have your Will of me , Within Sir , and without Sir . O yonder stands my Milkwhite Steed among the Cocks of Hay Sir , If the King's Penner should chance to come , He'll take my Steed away Sir . I have a Ring upon my Finger , Its made of the finest Gold Love , And it will serve to fetch your steed , Out of the Pinner's Fold Love . And if you'll go to my Father's House , That's Moted all round about s ir , There you shall have your Chamber free , And your Chamberlain I'll be Sir . He sat her on a Milk white Steed , Himself upon another , And then they Rid along the way , Like Sister and like Brother . But when she came to her Father's House , Which was Moated round about Sir , She slipped herself within the Gate And she locked the Knight without Sir . I thank you kind Knight for seeing me here , And bringing me a Maiden home Sir , But you shall have Two of my Father's Men , For to set you as far back again Sir . He drew his Sword out of his Scabbord , And whet it upon his Sheve Sir , Saying , Cursed be to every Man , That will believe a Maid Sir . She drew her Handkerchief out of her Pocket , And threw it upon the Ground Sir , Saying , thrice Cursed be ev [ e ] ry Maid , That will believe a Man Sir . We have a Tree in our Garden , Some call it of Rosemary Sir , There's Crowing Cocks in our Town , That will make a Capon of you Sir . We have a Flower in our Garden , Some call it a Marygold Sir , And he that would not when he might , He shall not when he would Sir . But if you chance for to meet a Maid A little below the Tow [ n ] sir , You must not fear her gay Clothing , Nor the wrinkling of her Gown Sir . And if you chance for to meet a Maid A little below the Hill Sir , You need not fear her screeking out , For she quickly will lie still Sir . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1693. And Excellent New SONG , Called , The LADY's Policy ; OR , The Baffled Knight . To a pleasant New Tune . THere was a Knight was drunk with Wine , A Riding along the way Sir , And there did he meet a Lady fine , And among the Cocks of Hay Sir . One Question he did crave of her , And asked her to lay her down Sir , But he had neither Cloth nor Sheet , To keep her from the Ground Sir . There is a great Due upon the Grass , And if you should lay me down Sir , You would spoil my gay Clothing , That has cost me many a Pound Sir . I have a Cloak of Scarlet Read , I'll lay it under you Love , So you will grant me my Request , That I shall ask of you Love . And if you'll go to my Father's Hall , That is Moated all round about Sir , There you shall have your Will of me , Within Sir , and without Sir . O yonder stands my Milkwhite Steed among the Cocks of Hay Sir , If the King's Penner should chance to come , He'll take my Steed away Sir . I have a Ring upon my Finger , Its made of the finest Gold Love , And it will serve to fetch your steed , Out of the Pinner's Fold Love . And if you'll go to my Father's House , That's Moted all round about s ir , There you shall have your Chamber free , And your Chamberlain I'll be Sir . He sat her on a Milk white Steed , Himself upon another , And then they Rid along the way , Like Sister and like Brother . But when she came to her Father's House , Which was Moated round about Sir , She slipped herself within the Gate And she locked the Knight without Sir . I thank you kind Knight for seeing me here , And bringing me a Maiden home Sir , But you shall have Two of my Father's Men , For to set you as far back again Sir . He drew his Sword out of his Scabbord , And whet it upon his Sheve Sir , Saying , Cursed be to every Man , That will believe a Maid Sir . She drew her Handkerchief out of her Pocket , And threw it upon the Ground Sir , Saying , thrice Cursed be ev [ e ] ry Maid , That will believe a Man Sir . We have a Tree in our Garden , Some call it of Rosemary Sir , There's Crowing Cocks in our Town , That will make a Capon of you Sir . We have a Flower in our Garden , Some call it a Marygold Sir , And he that would not when he might , He shall not when he would Sir . But if you chance for to meet a Maid A little below the Tow [ n ] sir , You must not fear her gay Clothing , Nor the wrinkling of her Gown Sir . And if you chance for to meet a Maid A little below the Hill Sir , You need not fear her screeking out , For she quickly will lie still Sir . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1693. 