And ANSWER TO The Northampton-shire Knight's DAUGHTER , Containing the Lady's Constancy , and the Servingman's Courage , in Duel against her former Love , who would have rescued her from him ; together with her Parents Re-conciliation , upon the account of his Valour . Tune of , The Languishing Swain . THe Lady of Northampton - shire , Who loved a Servingman so dear , She now enjoys her Heart's delight , Though once she feared her Ruin quite . She on a certain day did go , To William who she honoured so ; When walking near a Bower fair , She wittily discoursed him there . As they beneath the Shades did walk , They did of Love together talk : Where William he did blush to find , The youthful Lady prove so kind . I prithee William , she replied , Suppose I help thee to a Bride , One that will make a virtuous Wife , Canst thou forego a single life ? Dear Madam , let me see her Face , Her rosy Cheeks and charming Grace ; Then if I like her , you shall find That I can be to Love inclined . She took young William by the hand , And said , Do not disputing stand , For she's a proper comely Dame , As like my self , as if the same . I wish it was yourself , said he ; Oh then I should right happy be , With whom I should have Riches store ; For it's a Sorrow to be poor . Suppose I was the Lady , Will , And that my Friends should take it ill , Stripping me of my rich Array , How should we live another Day ? I have , said he , a small Estate , The which was left me but of late ; With that , and my Industry , I hope I shall provide for thee . Well said , my dear and loyal Love ; Do thou but true and constant prove , Then we a living need not fear , I have two thousand Pounds a Year , Beside three hundred Pounds in Gold , As good as ever Merchant told ; And if I had ten times more , Thou shouldst be Lord if all my Store . Let Father frown , and Mother chide , It's all a case , I'll be thy Bride . This said , they did appoint the Day , And married were without Delay . Now when her Friends the News did know , They to her former Love did go , And willing him for her to fight : I will , replied the Baron-Knight . The noble Challenge being made , This Servingman such Weapons played , That he the Baron-Knight did wound , And laid him bleeding on the ground . So soon as ever he felt the smart , He crayed , Take her with all my Heart ; It seems she is thy lawful wife , For her I'll never loose my Life . And thus the Servingman by fight , Secured his virtuous Lady bright , Who was her Parents only Child ; And all her Friends are reconciled . London : Printed for C. Bates , at tne White-hart in West-Smithfield . And ANSWER TO The Northampton-shire Knight's DAUGHTER , Containing the Lady's Constancy , and the Servingman's Courage , in Duel against her former Love , who would have rescued her from him ; together with her Parents Re-conciliation , upon the account of his Valour . Tune of , The Languishing Swain . THe Lady of Northampton - shire , Who loved a Servingman so dear , She now enjoys her Heart's delight , Though once she feared her Ruin quite . She on a certain day did go , To William who she honoured so ; When walking near a Bower fair , She wittily discoursed him there . As they beneath the Shades did walk , They did of Love together talk : Where William he did blush to find , The youthful Lady prove so kind . I prithee William , she replied , Suppose I help thee to a Bride , One that will make a virtuous Wife , Canst thou forego a single life ? Dear Madam , let me see her Face , Her rosy Cheeks and charming Grace ; Then if I like her , you shall find That I can be to Love inclined . She took young William by the hand , And said , Do not disputing stand , For she's a proper comely Dame , As like my self , as if the same . I wish it was yourself , said he ; Oh then I should right happy be , With whom I should have Riches store ; For it's a Sorrow to be poor . Suppose I was the Lady , Will , And that my Friends should take it ill , Stripping me of my rich Array , How should we live another Day ? I have , said he , a small Estate , The which was left me but of late ; With that , and my Industry , I hope I shall provide for thee . Well said , my dear and loyal Love ; Do thou but true and constant prove , Then we a living need not fear , I have two thousand Pounds a Year , Beside three hundred Pounds in Gold , As good as ever Merchant told ; And if I had ten times more , Thou shouldst be Lord if all my Store . Let Father frown , and Mother chide , It's all a case , I'll be thy Bride . This said , they did appoint the Day , And married were without Delay . Now when her Friends the News did know , They to her former Love did go , And willing him for her to fight : I will , replied the Baron-Knight . The noble Challenge being made , This Servingman such Weapons played , That he the Baron-Knight did wound , And laid him bleeding on the ground . So soon as ever he felt the smart , He crayed , Take her with all my Heart ; It seems she is thy lawful wife , For her I'll never loose my Life . And thus the Servingman by fight , Secured his virtuous Lady bright , Who was her Parents only Child ; And all her Friends are reconciled . London : Printed for C. Bates , at tne White-hart in West-Smithfield . 