Oxfordshire BETTY : Containing her Joaking Letter to TOM the TAYLOR , near Tower-Street ; who she has fairly left in the Lurch , and married with a Parson . Tune of , I love you more and more each day . POor Tom the Taylor don't lament , because I now am married ; To you this Letter I have sent , and tell you that I tarried , Too long for such a Knave as you , who has no Sense or Breeding : I pray look on this Line or two , this Line or two , you'll find it worth your reading . I have in order here set down , your wondered Expenses ; Yet never let it crack your Crown , nor rob you of your senses : Do not like one distracted Muse , such Fools there are too many , Yet Sense and Wit you cannot lose , you cannot lose , because you never had any . You courted me , I most confess , in famous London City ; And when you made your first Address , it was exceeding Witty . I prithee Betty , what's a Clock ? or some such fine Expression : This showed you had a swinging Stock , a swinging Stock of Wisdom and Discretion . I tell you Tom , I han't forgotten , how you did vow you'd treat me ; Yet I was forced to pay the Shot , when ever you did meet me : What Maypole Faces would you make , and sighing , cry , Dear Honey , Supply my wants for pity sake , for pity's sake , alas ! I have no Money . I'ld strive to keep you from Disgrace , that you might not be slighted , When other Persons was in place , where we was both invited : I'ld slip a Shilling in your hand , because of your Submission ; For I full well did understand , did understand , a Taylor's poor Condition . When I to Oxfordshire did go , where Pleasures I am reaping ; That news I would not let you know , for fear you would fallen a weeping : I did from London Town remove , according to Discretion , Because I knew I could not love , I could not love , a Man of your Profession . You are a pack of nasty Curs , in e'ry long Vacation , You feed so much on Cucumbers , you'd poison half the Nation : And Cabbidge all the Year beside , of which you are no Failer , What Woman can lie by the side ? lie by the side , of a Mechanic Taylor . My Husband is a Clergyman , of worthy Birth and Breeding ; I wear my Topping , Lace , and Fan , and am on Dainties feeding : Thus do I led a splended Life , continual Joys receiving ; Then who would be a Taylor's Wife ? a Taylor's Wife , whose Husbands live by Thieving . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown Tavern , in West-Smithfield . Oxfordshire BETTY : Containing her Joaking Letter to TOM the TAYLOR , near Tower-Street ; who she has fairly left in the Lurch , and married with a Parson . Tune of , I love you more and more each day . POor Tom the Taylor don't lament , because I now am married ; To you this Letter I have sent , and tell you that I tarried , Too long for such a Knave as you , who has no Sense or Breeding : I pray look on this Line or two , this Line or two , you'll find it worth your reading . I have in order here set down , your wondered Expenses ; Yet never let it crack your Crown , nor rob you of your senses : Do not like one distracted Muse , such Fools there are too many , Yet Sense and Wit you cannot lose , you cannot lose , because you never had any . You courted me , I most confess , in famous London City ; And when you made your first Address , it was exceeding Witty . I prithee Betty , what's a Clock ? or some such fine Expression : This showed you had a swinging Stock , a swinging Stock of Wisdom and Discretion . I tell you Tom , I han't forgotten , how you did vow you'd treat me ; Yet I was forced to pay the Shot , when ever you did meet me : What Maypole Faces would you make , and sighing , cry , Dear Honey , Supply my wants for pity sake , for pity's sake , alas ! I have no Money . I'ld strive to keep you from Disgrace , that you might not be slighted , When other Persons was in place , where we was both invited : I'ld slip a Shilling in your hand , because of your Submission ; For I full well did understand , did understand , a Taylor's poor Condition . When I to Oxfordshire did go , where Pleasures I am reaping ; That news I would not let you know , for fear you would fallen a weeping : I did from London Town remove , according to Discretion , Because I knew I could not love , I could not love , a Man of your Profession . You are a pack of nasty Curs , in e'ry long Vacation , You feed so much on Cucumbers , you'd poison half the Nation : And Cabbidge all the Year beside , of which you are no Failer , What Woman can lie by the side ? lie by the side , of a Mechanic Taylor . My Husband is a Clergyman , of worthy Birth and Breeding ; I wear my Topping , Lace , and Fan , and am on Dainties feeding : Thus do I led a splended Life , continual Joys receiving ; Then who would be a Taylor's Wife ? a Taylor's Wife , whose Husbands live by Thieving . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown Tavern , in West-Smithfield . 