[ The ? ] Quakers wanton Wife ; OR , The Frolicsome Young Beauty of a Sanctified Brother , belonging to the Bull and Mouth . Tune of , Let Marry long , Licensed according to Order . A Citizens wife I am , I declare it , I solemnly swear it ; I led a sweet life In Pleasure each day ; For I live at my ease , And can walk were I please , To Playhouse I go ; And as for my Husband , And as for my Husband , He dare not say no . Five Hundred Pounds , A Portion I brought him , And faith I have taught him His duty , and found Him willing to please , Like a Servant I have , My Admirine Slave , He is brought to my bow , If I'll have Rich Jewels , If I'll have Rich jewels , He dare not say no . My doting Old Man I s lately turned Quaker , And I Cuckold maker , May he do what he can , My Frolicks I'll have , Rich Topins I'll wear , And Powdered hair , Like a Lady I'll go , My Husband the Quaker , My Husband the Quaker , He dare not say no . In London I dwell , Where I at my pleasure , Do Revel in Treasure , I know very well What pleases me best , If I want a Rich Gown , Nay the best in the Town , To the Tailors I go , My Husband the Quaker , My Husband the Quaker , He dare not say no . I have been well bred , And therefore dear Neighbour , With no kind of labour I trouble my head , But take my delight ; I will still have the Reins , Let my husband take pains , While in pleasures I flow , It is but His duty , It is but His Duty , He dare not say no . When ever I dine , Rich Tent with Canary , Nay Rennish and Sherry , And all sorts of Wine I have at the Board , As I am a true wife , Oh the Liquour of life I love to see flow , The Quaker my Husband , The Quaker my Husband , He dare not say no . What if a brisk Blade Should happen to meet me , And proffer to treat me , Should I be afraid To venture with him , By my troth no not I , But will freely comply , To the Tavern I go , The Quaker my Husband , The Quaker my Husband , He dare not say no . It is not Yea and Nay , shall ever over rule me , Or any ways fool me , I will have my way , As sure as a Club , Shall my Beautiful Charms , In and Old Quakers Arms Be frozen , faith not , I will have my humours , I will have my humours , Abroad I will go . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . [ The ? ] Quakers wanton Wife ; OR , The Frolicsome Young Beauty of a Sanctified Brother , belonging to the Bull and Mouth . Tune of , Let Marry long , Licensed according to Order . A Citizens wife I am , I declare it , I solemnly swear it ; I led a sweet life In Pleasure each day ; For I live at my ease , And can walk were I please , To Playhouse I go ; And as for my Husband , And as for my Husband , He dare not say no . Five Hundred Pounds , A Portion I brought him , And faith I have taught him His duty , and found Him willing to please , Like a Servant I have , My Admirine Slave , He is brought to my bow , If I'll have Rich Jewels , If I'll have Rich jewels , He dare not say no . My doting Old Man I s lately turned Quaker , And I Cuckold maker , May he do what he can , My Frolicks I'll have , Rich Topins I'll wear , And Powdered hair , Like a Lady I'll go , My Husband the Quaker , My Husband the Quaker , He dare not say no . In London I dwell , Where I at my pleasure , Do Revel in Treasure , I know very well What pleases me best , If I want a Rich Gown , Nay the best in the Town , To the Tailors I go , My Husband the Quaker , My Husband the Quaker , He dare not say no . I have been well bred , And therefore dear Neighbour , With no kind of labour I trouble my head , But take my delight ; I will still have the Reins , Let my husband take pains , While in pleasures I flow , It is but His duty , It is but His Duty , He dare not say no . When ever I dine , Rich Tent with Canary , Nay Rennish and Sherry , And all sorts of Wine I have at the Board , As I am a true wife , Oh the Liquour of life I love to see flow , The Quaker my Husband , The Quaker my Husband , He dare not say no . What if a brisk Blade Should happen to meet me , And proffer to treat me , Should I be afraid To venture with him , By my troth no not I , But will freely comply , To the Tavern I go , The Quaker my Husband , The Quaker my Husband , He dare not say no . It is not Yea and Nay , shall ever over rule me , Or any ways fool me , I will have my way , As sure as a Club , Shall my Beautiful Charms , In and Old Quakers Arms Be frozen , faith not , I will have my humours , I will have my humours , Abroad I will go . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 