And Answer to the Old Man's WISH : Containing the Young Lasses Longing desire to be Married and eke to and Old Man rather than fail . To the Tune of , The Old men Wish . Licensed according to Order . O That I was now a Married Wife , Then should I enjoy a happy Life ; Let me no longer languish alone , One that is old is better than none . What if thy head be hoary and grey , Every Night we'll dally and play , Dally and play , though Seventy-one , One that is , etc Though thou art Aged , yet thou art right , Able to yield a Woman delight ; Therefore no longer leave me alone , He that is , etc Let me enjoy this Jolly Old Lad , Seeing no other is to be had ; What though he be as cold as a Stone , One that is , etc Silver and Gold I know he has store ; Thus we may live , and never be poor , Never be poor , nor languish alone , He that is , etc What if my Fancy he cannot feed , Yet will I take the Will for the Deed ; Why should I longer languish alone , One that is , etc Love is a pain I cannot endure , Why should I not seek out for a Cure ; Here I have long made pitiful moan , One that is , etc Every morning when I arise , Trickling tears does flow from mine Eyes ; Let me no longer languish alone , One that is , etc What though he cannot follow the stroke , Yet I declare he'll serve for a Cloak ; Now for this very reason alone , He that is , etc When I shall wed this Wealthy Old man , Him I will love as well as I can ; Though with the Gout all night he does groan One that is , etc He shall be fed with delicate Fare , All the decays of Strength to repair ; Why should I longer languish alone , Though he be , etc Ever my old Man shall be a mere Slave , will have a Bully bonny and brave ; Yet between while I'll love him alone , One that is , etc He has two thousand pounds and above , This is enough to make me in love With this gray wealthy Miser alone , Though he be , etc Ever it be long , I know he will die , Then none will be so Jolly as I ; But the mean while I'll love him alone , Though he be old , he's better than none . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . And Answer to the Old Man's WISH : Containing the Young Lasses Longing desire to be Married and eke to and Old Man rather than fail . To the Tune of , The Old men Wish . Licensed according to Order . O That I was now a Married Wife , Then should I enjoy a happy Life ; Let me no longer languish alone , One that is old is better than none . What if thy head be hoary and grey , Every Night we'll dally and play , Dally and play , though Seventy-one , One that is , etc Though thou art Aged , yet thou art right , Able to yield a Woman delight ; Therefore no longer leave me alone , He that is , etc Let me enjoy this Jolly Old Lad , Seeing no other is to be had ; What though he be as cold as a Stone , One that is , etc Silver and Gold I know he has store ; Thus we may live , and never be poor , Never be poor , nor languish alone , He that is , etc What if my Fancy he cannot feed , Yet will I take the Will for the Deed ; Why should I longer languish alone , One that is , etc Love is a pain I cannot endure , Why should I not seek out for a Cure ; Here I have long made pitiful moan , One that is , etc Every morning when I arise , Trickling tears does flow from mine Eyes ; Let me no longer languish alone , One that is , etc What though he cannot follow the stroke , Yet I declare he'll serve for a Cloak ; Now for this very reason alone , He that is , etc When I shall wed this Wealthy Old man , Him I will love as well as I can ; Though with the Gout all night he does groan One that is , etc He shall be fed with delicate Fare , All the decays of Strength to repair ; Why should I longer languish alone , Though he be , etc Ever my old Man shall be a mere Slave , will have a Bully bonny and brave ; Yet between while I'll love him alone , One that is , etc He has two thousand pounds and above , This is enough to make me in love With this gray wealthy Miser alone , Though he be , etc Ever it be long , I know he will die , Then none will be so Jolly as I ; But the mean while I'll love him alone , Though he be old , he's better than none . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 