And Excellent New SONG , OF THE Two Happy LOVERS : OR , The Young Man and Maids Constancy . To and excellent New Playhouse Tune , much in Request . I . Found Boy what dost thou mean , thus my Heart to surprise ; And make me love another while my Celia die ? My Celia is fair , and my Heart does retain ; But O , when I see Amintor , I'm ravished again . Then shoot thy Kind Dart , let thy Heart be my Prize : I'll entreat the kind Gods for to open my Eyes . II Dear Celia ! o then , Why so cruel to me ? When I that was always so Just unto thee : How happy were I , that I could but obtain One Smile of my own dear Celia again : I will never forsake him as long as I live , Whatever in Love he do's want I will give . III . Amintor is kind , and likewise is fair ; But none in the Word can with Celia compare : If his Love it were true , and that I might find That for ever , for ever , to me he'd be kind , I'ld freely enjoy my Dear in my Arms , And keep him secure from all other Harms . IV. Why should I prove false to him that I love , For another to me he Unconstant may prove : My Celia has Charms which I do adore ; If he'll be but kind , I desire no more : For to ramble in Love I do not admire , If I have my dear Celia it's all I desire . His ANSWER . Dear Cynthia ! ne ' er fear , my Love shall be true , There's none in the World that I love now but the [ u ] Then do not despair in your true Love no more ; For it's you my dear Cynthia that I must adore : I did but to try whither loyal you'd be , But I never , no never will prove false to thee . II I always was Just to the Promise I made , Though you my dear Cynthia was ever afraid : My Heart it was struck when I herd thee Complai [ n ] O my Celia ! my Celia ! he does me disdain : I did but to try whither loyal you'd be , But I never , no never will prove false to thee . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . And Excellent New SONG , OF THE Two Happy LOVERS : OR , The Young Man and Maids Constancy . To and excellent New Playhouse Tune , much in Request . I . Found Boy what dost thou mean , thus my Heart to surprise ; And make me love another while my Celia die ? My Celia is fair , and my Heart does retain ; But O , when I see Amintor , I'm ravished again . Then shoot thy Kind Dart , let thy Heart be my Prize : I'll entreat the kind Gods for to open my Eyes . II Dear Celia ! o then , Why so cruel to me ? When I that was always so Just unto thee : How happy were I , that I could but obtain One Smile of my own dear Celia again : I will never forsake him as long as I live , Whatever in Love he do's want I will give . III . Amintor is kind , and likewise is fair ; But none in the Word can with Celia compare : If his Love it were true , and that I might find That for ever , for ever , to me he'd be kind , I'ld freely enjoy my Dear in my Arms , And keep him secure from all other Harms . IV. Why should I prove false to him that I love , For another to me he Unconstant may prove : My Celia has Charms which I do adore ; If he'll be but kind , I desire no more : For to ramble in Love I do not admire , If I have my dear Celia it's all I desire . His ANSWER . Dear Cynthia ! ne ' er fear , my Love shall be true , There's none in the World that I love now but the [ u ] Then do not despair in your true Love no more ; For it's you my dear Cynthia that I must adore : I did but to try whither loyal you'd be , But I never , no never will prove false to thee . II I always was Just to the Promise I made , Though you my dear Cynthia was ever afraid : My Heart it was struck when I herd thee Complai [ n ] O my Celia ! my Celia ! he does me disdain : I did but to try whither loyal you'd be , But I never , no never will prove false to thee . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 