The Lover's Request : OR , A DIALOGUE between a Young Man and a Beautiful Maiden , whom he much and mired , and of their happy Agreement in the Bonds of Love . To a pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . Young Man . FAirest Sisley , let me move thee , [ S ] oh I do in Conscience love thee ; I am faithful true , and loyal , DONE [ ' ] tO retu [ r ] n me a Denial ; If you will not soon relieve me , Death will in his Arms receive me ; Then you never can recover , After Death , your breathless Lover . Maiden . It's not I that can believe you , Yet I'll venture to receive you , And will ease you of your anguish , Loath I am to see you languish ; But you Men are so deceiving , That there can be no believing What you say ; then I'll not love you ; First I'll try thee , thus I'll prove thee . Young Man . Dear , I dote upon thy Beauty , And account it still my Duty , To admire thy sweet Graces , And with tender soft Embraces Still our Joys shall be repeated , Till our Blessings are completed : Therefore do not once deny me , None but thee shall ever lie by me . Maiden . Sir , you seem a found Pretender , And if I should soon surrender , Like a true entire Lover , I too soon might then discover Your deceit of Love and Blessing , While you are indeed possessing Joys which you in others centre ; Therefore I am loath to venture . Young Man . Dearest Love , I do adore thee , Constantly I fallen before thee ; Therefore don't deny the Blessing , Which I long to be possessing ; Grant me what I do require , For thy Charms I do admire , Which is full of Joy and Pleasure , In thy Love lies hidden Treasure . Maiden . I can scarce believe your Story . Young Men blast fair Women's Glory , By their cunning false delusion ; So that Dearest , in conclusion , We are wronged and clearly slight [ e ] worser , Just when we should be united , By a Frown we soon may sever ; This would ruin me for ever . Young Man . Can I wrong so sweet a Creature , The Perfection of good Nature , On whose Brows I do discover Pretty Cupids that do hover Round my pretty charming Jewel ? No , I never will be cruel To so sweet a charming Blessing , Which I hope to be possessing . Maiden . Should I once consent to marry , Then I fear I might miscarry ; Love is like a River flowing , Often ebbing , likewise going , From the heat of found desire ; They can never long admire , But will change their found Embraces , When they see new cham [ rm ] ing Faces . Maiden . I have made my choice already ; Might I have a youthful Lady , Who has Beauty , likewise Treasure , I in her could take no pleasure , Thou art she whom I admire ; Grant me then my Heart's desire , Let me have thy Love and Favour , And I will be thine for ever . N INIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The Lover's Request : OR , A DIALOGUE between a Young Man and a Beautiful Maiden , whom he much and mired , and of their happy Agreement in the Bonds of Love . To a pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . Young Man . FAirest Sisley , let me move thee , [ S ] oh I do in Conscience love thee ; I am faithful true , and loyal , DONE [ ' ] tO retu [ r ] n me a Denial ; If you will not soon relieve me , Death will in his Arms receive me ; Then you never can recover , After Death , your breathless Lover . Maiden . It's not I that can believe you , Yet I'll venture to receive you , And will ease you of your anguish , Loath I am to see you languish ; But you Men are so deceiving , That there can be no believing What you say ; then I'll not love you ; First I'll try thee , thus I'll prove thee . Young Man . Dear , I dote upon thy Beauty , And account it still my Duty , To admire thy sweet Graces , And with tender soft Embraces Still our Joys shall be repeated , Till our Blessings are completed : Therefore do not once deny me , None but thee shall ever lie by me . Maiden . Sir , you seem a found Pretender , And if I should soon surrender , Like a true entire Lover , I too soon might then discover Your deceit of Love and Blessing , While you are indeed possessing Joys which you in others centre ; Therefore I am loath to venture . Young Man . Dearest Love , I do adore thee , Constantly I fallen before thee ; Therefore don't deny the Blessing , Which I long to be possessing ; Grant me what I do require , For thy Charms I do admire , Which is full of Joy and Pleasure , In thy Love lies hidden Treasure . Maiden . I can scarce believe your Story . Young Men blast fair Women's Glory , By their cunning false delusion ; So that Dearest , in conclusion , We are wronged and clearly slight [ e ] worser , Just when we should be united , By a Frown we soon may sever ; This would ruin me for ever . Young Man . Can I wrong so sweet a Creature , The Perfection of good Nature , On whose Brows I do discover Pretty Cupids that do hover Round my pretty charming Jewel ? No , I never will be cruel To so sweet a charming Blessing , Which I hope to be possessing . Maiden . Should I once consent to marry , Then I fear I might miscarry ; Love is like a River flowing , Often ebbing , likewise going , From the heat of found desire ; They can never long admire , But will change their found Embraces , When they see new cham [ rm ] ing Faces . Maiden . I have made my choice already ; Might I have a youthful Lady , Who has Beauty , likewise Treasure , I in her could take no pleasure , Thou art she whom I admire ; Grant me then my Heart's desire , Let me have thy Love and Favour , And I will be thine for ever . N INIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 