The Sporting Couple ; OR , Love in the Grass . To a Pleasant New Tune . WIthin a Mile of L ondon town , As I was walking up and down , I spied upon the Grass A spritely Lad and Lass , She smiling in his face , His arms around her Wast , like Lovers indeed . But as I nearer to them came , I herd the Maid this young Man blame , what ? will you Ruin me ? Oh! no , it shall not be : Therefore I do protest , I will never grant your Request , So never ask me more . Prithee fair Maid ( the young man did cry ) Be not so silly to deny , if we enjoy the Bliss , Where is the harm of this ? Then come my pretty Maid , Be not so much afraid , L ove is a harmless thing . Then she cried , Your flattering tongue Will ruin me quite , I being young , therefore i'll not stay , But will hast away : Pray Sir , let me alone , O that I were at home , i'd never come here again . Yet this young Man he held her fast , Saying they would not part in haste : Be but kind to me , And i'll give to thee Many fine pretty things , As Gloves , and golden Rings , Therefore do not deny . If I should yield to your Design , What will become of me in time , When some months are past , And I big i'th' Wast : O what must I then do ? For where shall I find you [ ? ] Fie naughty man begone . Kiss me with kindness fair Maid q [ uoth he ] O not for forty good Pounds , quoth she , She cried let me go , He cried say not so , Oh how you rumple me , Oh how you tumble me , O what a life is this . Prithee fair Maid this young man did say Let us now sport some hours away ; Now we're on the Grass yield my pretty Lass Not for the World said she Pish this must never be Until I am a Wife . Tho this maid still would say him nay , And often said Take your hand away Yet he pressed her so , Ere he let her go That at the length quoth she Sir How you tickle me , What do you mean to do ? He laid her down beneath a Tree But what he did was unknown to me [ : ] But I herd her say As she went away , Making a low Courchy , Thank you kind Sir quoth she When shall we meet again . Printed by for and A . M.The Sporting Couple ; OR , Love in the Grass . To a Pleasant New Tune . WIthin a Mile of L ondon town , As I was walking up and down , I spied upon the Grass A spritely Lad and Lass , She smiling in his face , His arms around her Wast , like Lovers indeed . But as I nearer to them came , I herd the Maid this young Man blame , what ? will you Ruin me ? Oh! no , it shall not be : Therefore I do protest , I will never grant your Request , So never ask me more . Prithee fair Maid ( the young man did cry ) Be not so silly to deny , if we enjoy the Bliss , Where is the harm of this ? Then come my pretty Maid , Be not so much afraid , L ove is a harmless thing . Then she cried , Your flattering tongue Will ruin me quite , I being young , therefore i'll not stay , But will hast away : Pray Sir , let me alone , O that I were at home , i'd never come here again . Yet this young Man he held her fast , Saying they would not part in haste : Be but kind to me , And i'll give to thee Many fine pretty things , As Gloves , and golden Rings , Therefore do not deny . If I should yield to your Design , What will become of me in time , When some months are past , And I big i'th' Wast : O what must I then do ? For where shall I find you [ ? ] Fie naughty man begone . Kiss me with kindness fair Maid q [ uoth he ] O not for forty good Pounds , quoth she , She cried let me go , He cried say not so , Oh how you rumple me , Oh how you tumble me , O what a life is this . Prithee fair Maid this young man did say Let us now sport some hours away ; Now we're on the Grass yield my pretty Lass Not for the World said she Pish this must never be Until I am a Wife . Tho this maid still would say him nay , And often said Take your hand away Yet he pressed her so , Ere he let her go That at the length quoth she Sir How you tickle me , What do you mean to do ? He laid her down beneath a Tree But what he did was unknown to me [ : ] But I herd her say As she went away , Making a low Courchy , Thank you kind Sir quoth she When shall we meet again . Printed by for and A.M. 