THE Passionate Squire's Petition , OR THE Youthful Swimming Lady Invited to the Shore by her Entire Love . To and Excellent New TUNE . I . SEe yonder she Swims and calls , Love , and fain would be on Shore ; She's one of the fairest Faces that ever I beheld before : And I prithee my Dear , call home thy heart , and hear thy true Lovers Charms , For the Phoenix shall be our Guide , Love , and protect us from all harms . II A Ship it cannot be Built , Love , without the help of Tree ; And the very Flint Stones shall melt , Love , and if I prove false to thee : If I prove false to thee , my Dear , the Rocks shall melt in the Sun ; And the Fire shall Freeze like Ice , Love , and the Sea shall Raging Burn. III . Then fear neither Wind nor Weather , but venture thy self with me ; When ever we Sail together , young Cupid alone , shall be Our Pilot , to Guide and Steer us from turbulent Storms , my Dear : No Danger can ever come near us , all shall be Serene and Clear . IV. When first I beheld thy Beauty , it wounded me to the heart , So that I was bound in Duty , to love thee for thy Desert : Then be neither Coy nor Cruel , for why , it is in thy will , My Amorous Charming Jewel , this minute to Save or Kill . V. Be kind to thy dear pretender , and do not the least Revile , I readily will surrender my heart , for one gentle Smile : Thy Love is as great a Blessing as ever I would enjoy , The which if I was possessing , my sorrows it would destroy . VI . Like innocent Lambs , in pleasure , our minutes of Love we'll spend ; I valve not Worldly Treasure , for that I will never contend : True Love I alone admire , and do thy sweet Charms adore ; Then grant me my hearts desire , and Love , I will ask no more . VII . Among the delightful Bowers , where Flora her Mantle spreads , With changeable fragrant Flowers , rich Garlands do Crown our Heads , The Lilies , my Dear , shall make us : and thus we will live in Love , True Pleasure can never forsake us , so long as we Loyal prove . VIII . Sweet Creature , thou mayest believe me , I love thee more dear than Gold , Why shouldst thou delight to grieve me ? fair Beautiful Saint , behold ! I'll study for thy Promotion , my heart is to Love inclined ; And will be at thy Devotion , sweet Creature , be not unkind . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . THE Passionate Squire's Petition , OR THE Youthful Swimming Lady Invited to the Shore by her Entire Love . To and Excellent New TUNE . I . SEe yonder she Swims and calls , Love , and fain would be on Shore ; She's one of the fairest Faces that ever I beheld before : And I prithee my Dear , call home thy heart , and hear thy true Lovers Charms , For the Phoenix shall be our Guide , Love , and protect us from all harms . II A Ship it cannot be Built , Love , without the help of Tree ; And the very Flint Stones shall melt , Love , and if I prove false to thee : If I prove false to thee , my Dear , the Rocks shall melt in the Sun ; And the Fire shall Freeze like Ice , Love , and the Sea shall Raging Burn. III . Then fear neither Wind nor Weather , but venture thy self with me ; When ever we Sail together , young Cupid alone , shall be Our Pilot , to Guide and Steer us from turbulent Storms , my Dear : No Danger can ever come near us , all shall be Serene and Clear . IV. When first I beheld thy Beauty , it wounded me to the heart , So that I was bound in Duty , to love thee for thy Desert : Then be neither Coy nor Cruel , for why , it is in thy will , My Amorous Charming Jewel , this minute to Save or Kill . V. Be kind to thy dear pretender , and do not the least Revile , I readily will surrender my heart , for one gentle Smile : Thy Love is as great a Blessing as ever I would enjoy , The which if I was possessing , my sorrows it would destroy . VI . Like innocent Lambs , in pleasure , our minutes of Love we'll spend ; I valve not Worldly Treasure , for that I will never contend : True Love I alone admire , and do thy sweet Charms adore ; Then grant me my hearts desire , and Love , I will ask no more . VII . Among the delightful Bowers , where Flora her Mantle spreads , With changeable fragrant Flowers , rich Garlands do Crown our Heads , The Lilies , my Dear , shall make us : and thus we will live in Love , True Pleasure can never forsake us , so long as we Loyal prove . VIII . Sweet Creature , thou mayest believe me , I love thee more dear than Gold , Why shouldst thou delight to grieve me ? fair Beautiful Saint , behold ! I'll study for thy Promotion , my heart is to Love inclined ; And will be at thy Devotion , sweet Creature , be not unkind . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 