THE MAIDS CALL TO THE BATCHELORS . To and Excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . I Herd and old Proverb by my Father and Mother , That going to one Wedding , begets another , Than rather than stay I'll go without bidding , To let the World see how I love a Wedding , Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , O , let me not die a Maid , take me for pity . I have a Sister Cisly she's younger than I am , She had six or seven hearts and forced to deny they , Before she was nineteen , she'd a Son and a Daughter , And I three and twenty and never had and offer , Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , O , let me not die a Maid , take me for pity . I will be no scold , nor I will not be jealous , He shall have Money to spend in and Alehouse ; While he's abroad spending , I'll be at home saving , O tell me , if I am not worth a Man's having , Come gentle , etc O , let me , etc There's Roger and Nell is next week to be married , Yet I for a Husband have many years tarried ; I'll go to the Wedding , sing dance and be merry , And trip it around with Tom , Roger , and Harry , Come gentle , etc O , let me , etc If any that day should ask me to be wedded , I'ld venture almost without Church to be bedded , For Men are so fickle , one day they will have you , And the next day they are ready to leave you , Come gentle , etc O , let me , etc I think my poor case is the hardest of any , For there are some Lasses are courted by many , Last night I herd Betty , cry Sir , I defy you , I wished the young Man would leave her & amp ; come try me , Come gentle , etc O , let me , etc O , why of all Maidens should I be forsaken , Yet if I die a Maid I am mistaken ? It's hard if I meet not a young Man so civil , To take off the burden of a Maidenhead-evil , Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , O , let me not die a Maid , take me for pity . The young Man's Answer to the Maidens Call to the Bachelors . To the same tune . SWeet heart I do find you no longer will tarry , But fain with a young Man would hastily marry ; I'm not of your mind for I will not be wedded , But if you'll consent you shall quickly be bedded , I'll hug thee , I'll kiss thee , and on the Bed tumble , And you shall not die a Maid , therefore don't grumble . Another young Man to this Maiden replied , Sweetheart I confess you shall never be denied : It's pity that you should a Virgin depart , Before you have tasted of Cupid's Love Dart , I'll hug thee , etc And you , etc Next day came another , and made a kind offer , His Hand and his Heart and something else did proffer , But Marriage , quoth he , I will never consent to , In any thing else , I would freely content you , I'll hug thee , I'll kiss thee and on the Bed tumble And you shall not die a Maid therefore don't grumble . FINIS . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . THE MAIDS CALL TO THE BATCHELORS . To and Excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . I Herd and old Proverb by my Father and Mother , That going to one Wedding , begets another , Than rather than stay I'll go without bidding , To let the World see how I love a Wedding , Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , O , let me not die a Maid , take me for pity . I have a Sister Cisly she's younger than I am , She had six or seven hearts and forced to deny they , Before she was nineteen , she'd a Son and a Daughter , And I three and twenty and never had and offer , Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , O , let me not die a Maid , take me for pity . I will be no scold , nor I will not be jealous , He shall have Money to spend in and Alehouse ; While he's abroad spending , I'll be at home saving , O tell me , if I am not worth a Man's having , Come gentle , etc O , let me , etc There's Roger and Nell is next week to be married , Yet I for a Husband have many years tarried ; I'll go to the Wedding , sing dance and be merry , And trip it around with Tom , Roger , and Harry , Come gentle , etc O , let me , etc If any that day should ask me to be wedded , I'ld venture almost without Church to be bedded , For Men are so fickle , one day they will have you , And the next day they are ready to leave you , Come gentle , etc O , let me , etc I think my poor case is the hardest of any , For there are some Lasses are courted by many , Last night I herd Betty , cry Sir , I defy you , I wished the young Man would leave her & amp ; come try me , Come gentle , etc O , let me , etc O , why of all Maidens should I be forsaken , Yet if I die a Maid I am mistaken ? It's hard if I meet not a young Man so civil , To take off the burden of a Maidenhead-evil , Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , O , let me not die a Maid , take me for pity . The young Man's Answer to the Maidens Call to the Bachelors . To the same tune . SWeet heart I do find you no longer will tarry , But fain with a young Man would hastily marry ; I'm not of your mind for I will not be wedded , But if you'll consent you shall quickly be bedded , I'll hug thee , I'll kiss thee , and on the Bed tumble , And you shall not die a Maid , therefore don't grumble . Another young Man to this Maiden replied , Sweetheart I confess you shall never be denied : It's pity that you should a Virgin depart , Before you have tasted of Cupid's Love Dart , I'll hug thee , etc And you , etc Next day came another , and made a kind offer , His Hand and his Heart and something else did proffer , But Marriage , quoth he , I will never consent to , In any thing else , I would freely content you , I'll hug thee , I'll kiss thee and on the Bed tumble And you shall not die a Maid therefore don't grumble . FINIS . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . 