The Shepherd's Happiness : OR , And Advice to Ladies . Being and Excellent New SONG in the last New OPERA . To and Excellent new Tune Much in Request . Licensed according to Order . HOw blessed are Shepherd's how happy their Lasses , While Drums & amp ; Trumpets are sounding Alarms ! Over our lowly Sheds all the Storm passes ; and when we die it's in each others Arms , All the day on our Herds , and Flocks employing , All the Night on our Flutes , and enjoying . 2. Bright Nymph's of Britain with graces Attended , let not your days without pleasure expire , Honours but empty , when your youth is ended , all men will praise you , but none will desire , Let not youth fly away without contenting , Age will come time enough for your Repenting . 3. Princes of high Renown in foreign Nations , they a sweet pastoral life did admire , And left vain glory and all the court fashions , to live like Shepherd's it was there desire , For in the Fields and Groves there is more pleasure , Then in great Princes Courts with Golden treasure . 4. Bright lovly Ladies of high birth and fortune , let not your beauty make you be disdaining , For all the pleasures at Court is uncertain , some there are joyful yet others complaining , come then unto the plain's see our employment , Of your sweet presence give us the enjoyment . 5. Though you are stored with Wit , Youth and Beauty , those are but treasures that lasts for a moment , Be not unkind then to those makes it duty for to adore you , but ease all their Torment ; Let not your Lovers thus live discontented , When Youth and Beauty's gone you may Repent it . 6. The pleasures we enjoy is passed expresing , with Nymph's and Shepherd's theirs none can compar [ e ] They sport's are innocent they are posesing , each swain enjoy's both the witty and fair , Like constant turtles we still live together , And thus could be content to live for ever . 7. Wee'll not aspire for glory or splendour , but live contented and love one another , To the ambitious vain glory surender , and still together new joys will discover , Then we shall never have cause of Repenting , But will be ever each other contenting . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holbourn , 1691 . The Shepherd's Happiness : OR , And Advice to Ladies . Being and Excellent New SONG in the last New OPERA . To and Excellent new Tune Much in Request . Licensed according to Order . HOw blessed are Shepherd's how happy their Lasses , While Drums & amp ; Trumpets are sounding Alarms ! Over our lowly Sheds all the Storm passes ; and when we die it's in each others Arms , All the day on our Herds , and Flocks employing , All the Night on our Flutes , and enjoying . 2. Bright Nymph's of Britain with graces Attended , let not your days without pleasure expire , Honours but empty , when your youth is ended , all men will praise you , but none will desire , Let not youth fly away without contenting , Age will come time enough for your Repenting . 3. Princes of high Renown in foreign Nations , they a sweet pastoral life did admire , And left vain glory and all the court fashions , to live like Shepherd's it was there desire , For in the Fields and Groves there is more pleasure , Then in great Princes Courts with Golden treasure . 4. Bright lovly Ladies of high birth and fortune , let not your beauty make you be disdaining , For all the pleasures at Court is uncertain , some there are joyful yet others complaining , come then unto the plain's see our employment , Of your sweet presence give us the enjoyment . 5. Though you are stored with Wit , Youth and Beauty , those are but treasures that lasts for a moment , Be not unkind then to those makes it duty for to adore you , but ease all their Torment ; Let not your Lovers thus live discontented , When Youth and Beauty's gone you may Repent it . 6. The pleasures we enjoy is passed expresing , with Nymph's and Shepherd's theirs none can compar [ e ] They sport's are innocent they are posesing , each swain enjoy's both the witty and fair , Like constant turtles we still live together , And thus could be content to live for ever . 7. Wee'll not aspire for glory or splendour , but live contented and love one another , To the ambitious vain glory surender , and still together new joys will discover , Then we shall never have cause of Repenting , But will be ever each other contenting . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holbourn , 1691 . 