And Excellent New SONG , called , The Pleasure of LOVE : OR , Worldly PLEASURE Far Exceeds The MISER's Treasure . To a new Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . IF a Man was secure That Life could endure , As of old a thousand , as of old a thousand , a thousand good years , What arts might we know , what acts might we do , and all without hurry , and all without hurry and care , But we that have but span long lives The thicker must lay on our pleasure , And since time will not stay , We'll add the night unto the day , And thus , thus , thus , thus , And thus we will lengthen the measure . If Youth could remain Without trouble or pain , And never be perplexed , and never be perplexed , perplexed with sorrow , But Age soon comes on , Youth quickly is gone , we cannot one moment , we cannot one moment's time borrow , And since our Days are very short , Why should we then loose our pleasure , Let us add to our time The joy of love and cheerful wine , And thus , thus , thus , thus , And thus we will lengthen the measure . Let your Misers scruple on , Till their Souls are undone , By hoarding of treasure , by hoarding of treasure of Treasure great store , While Love's our delight By day and by night , we never can be wretched , we never can be wretched or poor , Then let us not those Worldlings mind , Who daily heap up daily Treasure But by the Powers of Love , May our youthful flames improve , And thus , thus , thus , thus , And thus we will lengthen the measure . Why should Man then repine At a Mistress or Wine , Which does our dull Fancies , which does our ddll Fancies dull Fancies refine , Though time pass away , Yet while I here stay , let Claret and Women , let Claret and Women be mine , As for those Fools that know them not , They never found out solid Treasure , It's my Bottle and my Miss , That we day and night must kiss , And thus , thus , thus , thus , And thus we will lengthen the measure . London : Printed for J . B : in the Strand . And Excellent New SONG , called , The Pleasure of LOVE : OR , Worldly PLEASURE Far Exceeds The MISER's Treasure . To a new Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . IF a Man was secure That Life could endure , As of old a thousand , as of old a thousand , a thousand good years , What arts might we know , what acts might we do , and all without hurry , and all without hurry and care , But we that have but span long lives The thicker must lay on our pleasure , And since time will not stay , We'll add the night unto the day , And thus , thus , thus , thus , And thus we will lengthen the measure . If Youth could remain Without trouble or pain , And never be perplexed , and never be perplexed , perplexed with sorrow , But Age soon comes on , Youth quickly is gone , we cannot one moment , we cannot one moment's time borrow , And since our Days are very short , Why should we then loose our pleasure , Let us add to our time The joy of love and cheerful wine , And thus , thus , thus , thus , And thus we will lengthen the measure . Let your Misers scruple on , Till their Souls are undone , By hoarding of treasure , by hoarding of treasure of Treasure great store , While Love's our delight By day and by night , we never can be wretched , we never can be wretched or poor , Then let us not those Worldlings mind , Who daily heap up daily Treasure But by the Powers of Love , May our youthful flames improve , And thus , thus , thus , thus , And thus we will lengthen the measure . Why should Man then repine At a Mistress or Wine , Which does our dull Fancies , which does our ddll Fancies dull Fancies refine , Though time pass away , Yet while I here stay , let Claret and Women , let Claret and Women be mine , As for those Fools that know them not , They never found out solid Treasure , It's my Bottle and my Miss , That we day and night must kiss , And thus , thus , thus , thus , And thus we will lengthen the measure . London : Printed for J . B : in the Strand . 