And Excellent New SONG : OR , No KISSING at all . In a Dialogue between CORIDON and MOPSIPHIL , as it was sung in a late Opera in the Theatre Royal . To and Excellent New Tune . Cor . NOw the maids and the men are making of hay , We have left the dull fools , and are stolen away Then Mopsa no more Be coy as before , But let us merrily , merrily play , And kiss , and kiss , the sweet time away . Mop . Why how now , sir clown , how came you so bold ? I'ld have you to know I'm not made of that mould . I tell you again , Maids must kiss no men . No , no ; no , no ; no kissing at all ; I'll not kiss , till I kiss you for good and all . Cor. No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor . Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all . Not kiss , etc . Cor . Should you give me a score , 'Twould not lessen the store , Then bid me cheerfully , cheerfully kiss , And take , and take my fill of your bliss . Mop . I'll not trust you so far , I know you too well ; Should I give you and inch , you'd take a whole ell : Then lord like you rule , And laugh at the fool . No , no , etc . Cor . Nay but Mopsa , my dear , soft kisses invite , Longing lovers to feast on a greater delight ; Then do not deny , But freely comply ; And I will lovingly , lovingly right My dear , my dear , in pleasures of night ; Mop . Stand back master clown , your suit is in vain , I tell you that I will unspotted remain ; For kisses they may Young damsels betray , Go , go ; go , go ; go , let me alone , I'll not kiss till you lawfully are my own . Cor . No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor . Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all , Not kiss , etc Cor . Dearest trust me , he cried , I will make thee my br i de , And love thee faithfully , faithfully too , My heart , my heart , is conquered by you . Your disconsolate swain , lies languishing here , Let me kiss thee but once , my dull spirits to cheer , Mop . Your a slippery blade , I'll not kiss you she said . Cor . No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor . Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good all , Not kiss , etc . FINIS . LONDON : Printed by E. M. for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . And Excellent New SONG : OR , No KISSING at all . In a Dialogue between CORIDON and MOPSIPHIL , as it was sung in a late Opera in the Theatre Royal . To and Excellent New Tune . Cor . NOw the maids and the men are making of hay , We have left the dull fools , and are stolen away Then Mopsa no more Be coy as before , But let us merrily , merrily play , And kiss , and kiss , the sweet time away . Mop . Why how now , sir clown , how came you so bold ? I'ld have you to know I'm not made of that mould . I tell you again , Maids must kiss no men . No , no ; no , no ; no kissing at all ; I'll not kiss , till I kiss you for good and all . Cor. No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor . Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all . Not kiss , etc . Cor . Should you give me a score , 'Twould not lessen the store , Then bid me cheerfully , cheerfully kiss , And take , and take my fill of your bliss . Mop . I'll not trust you so far , I know you too well ; Should I give you and inch , you'd take a whole ell : Then lord like you rule , And laugh at the fool . No , no , etc . Cor . Nay but Mopsa , my dear , soft kisses invite , Longing lovers to feast on a greater delight ; Then do not deny , But freely comply ; And I will lovingly , lovingly right My dear , my dear , in pleasures of night ; Mop . Stand back master clown , your suit is in vain , I tell you that I will unspotted remain ; For kisses they may Young damsels betray , Go , go ; go , go ; go , let me alone , I'll not kiss till you lawfully are my own . Cor . No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor . Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all , Not kiss , etc Cor . Dearest trust me , he cried , I will make thee my br i de , And love thee faithfully , faithfully too , My heart , my heart , is conquered by you . Your disconsolate swain , lies languishing here , Let me kiss thee but once , my dull spirits to cheer , Mop . Your a slippery blade , I'll not kiss you she said . Cor . No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor . Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good all , Not kiss , etc . FINIS . LONDON : Printed by E. M. for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 