And Excellent New SONG , Called , LOCK all FAST , OR Secret Love . A SONG much in Request , The Tune Right Pricked . I am come to lock all fast , Love without me cannot last : Love like Counsels of the wise , must be hid from vul -- her Eyes , it's holy , it's holy and we must we must conceal it , they profane it , they profane it who re -- veal it . What is promised in Love , Is Recorded still above , And whatever Vows we make , Let us keep for true Loves sake , This binding , this binding , and we still , we still must own it , They are Perjured , they are Perjured who disown it . Let our Love be just and true , For there's none I love but you , Let whatever each impart , Be locked up in ' tothers Heart , That no one , that no one but our selves , our selves may ever , Once be able , once be able to discover . While we secretly do Love , No one can our Joys remove , Nor can any one molest That which is hid in the Breast , It's Treasure , it's Treasure while we there , we there can keep it , From all Rivals , from all Rivals that do seek it . Take this Kiss with promised vow , To keep secret what we do , Let our Love be private still , That we may enjoy our fill , In Loving , in Loving to the height , the height of pleasure , Let our Love be , Let our Love be without measure . How happy that Pair does prove , Which are Secret in their Love , For each Night they sport and play , Sweetly pass the time away , In Kissing , in Kissing , still there is , there is no missing , While in private , while in private we are Kissing . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1693. And Excellent New SONG , Called , LOCK all FAST , OR Secret Love . A SONG much in Request , The Tune Right Pricked . I am come to lock all fast , Love without me cannot last : Love like Counsels of the wise , must be hid from vul -- her Eyes , it's holy , it's holy and we must we must conceal it , they profane it , they profane it who re -- veal it . What is promised in Love , Is Recorded still above , And whatever Vows we make , Let us keep for true Loves sake , This binding , this binding , and we still , we still must own it , They are Perjured , they are Perjured who disown it . Let our Love be just and true , For there's none I love but you , Let whatever each impart , Be locked up in ' tothers Heart , That no one , that no one but our selves , our selves may ever , Once be able , once be able to discover . While we secretly do Love , No one can our Joys remove , Nor can any one molest That which is hid in the Breast , It's Treasure , it's Treasure while we there , we there can keep it , From all Rivals , from all Rivals that do seek it . Take this Kiss with promised vow , To keep secret what we do , Let our Love be private still , That we may enjoy our fill , In Loving , in Loving to the height , the height of pleasure , Let our Love be , Let our Love be without measure . How happy that Pair does prove , Which are Secret in their Love , For each Night they sport and play , Sweetly pass the time away , In Kissing , in Kissing , still there is , there is no missing , While in private , while in private we are Kissing . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1693. 