A Beautiful Nymph , Finding Amintors Love grow cold , gives her Sister this Advice . And Excellent New Court Song much in Request , To and Excellent New Tune . IRis on the bank of Thames , with a sighs , and weeping Eyes , Said to a lovly Celimane , Let not Man your heart surprise : Men are all composed of lies . Though a thousand Times they sware , and as many Vows Repeat , All they sware , is Common Air , All they promise but deceit , None were ever constant yet . Wisely then preserve your heart , from each Tyranny of Fate , Which only then can Act its Part , when Love has its return of hate , and then Repentance comes to late . Amintor finding the Lady in tears , Turns his Pretensions to a Real Love . To and Excellent new Tune . What I to Cloris did pretend , is to a Real passion grown , That stubborn heart that would not bend , in one short minutes overthrown , As sorrow sat upon her brow , And tears from her bright eyes did flow , Love played the Charming Sire's part , And in the waters fired my heart . How pleasant was the sad surprise , while I to quench those Flames did seek , The Pearls that melted from her Eyes , and fondly kissed they off her Cheek , With her white hand she put me by , And softly cried Amintor fly , Lest by your stay you do Receive Infection , and with Cloris grieve . Too late alas , you do advice ; the sweet Contageon now is spread , My heart your beautys sacrifice , and panting at your Feet is laid , Ah! Cloris make a kind Return , 'Twas gentle pity made me burn , But if the offering you despise , Declare it and Amintor dies . Printed for R. Kell , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield , near Pye-Corner . 1691. A Beautiful Nymph , Finding Amintors Love grow cold , gives her Sister this Advice . And Excellent New Court Song much in Request , To and Excellent New Tune . IRis on the bank of Thames , with a sighs , and weeping Eyes , Said to a lovly Celimane , Let not Man your heart surprise : Men are all composed of lies . Though a thousand Times they sware , and as many Vows Repeat , All they sware , is Common Air , All they promise but deceit , None were ever constant yet . Wisely then preserve your heart , from each Tyranny of Fate , Which only then can Act its Part , when Love has its return of hate , and then Repentance comes to late . Amintor finding the Lady in tears , Turns his Pretensions to a Real Love . To and Excellent new Tune . What I to Cloris did pretend , is to a Real passion grown , That stubborn heart that would not bend , in one short minutes overthrown , As sorrow sat upon her brow , And tears from her bright eyes did flow , Love played the Charming Sire's part , And in the waters fired my heart . How pleasant was the sad surprise , while I to quench those Flames did seek , The Pearls that melted from her Eyes , and fondly kissed they off her Cheek , With her white hand she put me by , And softly cried Amintor fly , Lest by your stay you do Receive Infection , and with Cloris grieve . Too late alas , you do advice ; the sweet Contageon now is spread , My heart your beautys sacrifice , and panting at your Feet is laid , Ah! Cloris make a kind Return , 'Twas gentle pity made me burn , But if the offering you despise , Declare it and Amintor dies . Printed for R. Kell , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield , near Pye-Corner . 1691. 