The sorrowful Lamentation of a Penitent Sinner . To the Tune of , The Lamentation of a Sinner . O Lord my God I come to thee , in all my grief and pain , Now turn to me in my distress , and comfort me again : And enter not to judgement Lord , with sinful dust and clay . Nor with thy servant be not wrath nor turn thy face away . And lay not Lord thy hand on me , too heavy is thy fume , For I am week and in thy wrath , I quickly shall consume : I am afraid of thee Oh Lord , because thou didst me beatrice , But yet I know that Jesus Christ , will for my soul entreat . I am a sinful wretch , Oh Lord , for mercy I do cry , Now help me Lord in my distress , and extreme misery : For unto thee Lord do I cry , by night and eke by day , Now help me for thy mercy sake , and that without delay . But do not beatrice me over much , my loving Father sweet . Lest that this frail and wicked flesh , should from sweet Jesus fleet I come again unto thee Lord , I do thee now embrace , And turn to me thy countenance , thy favour and thy face . And bring me home unto thy fold , for I am gone astray , And wandered in and unknown path , which brought me to decay . But now to thee my loving Lord , for mercy I do cry , Now hear my plaint sweet Jesus Christ and ease my misery . And when it is thy gracious will , that I this sinful life shall leave , Sweet Jesus Christ into thy hands I do my Soul bequeathe : And here I do entreat thee Lord , from the bottom of my heart , That from my faith in Jesus Christ , I never do depart . But in the very pangs of death , to thee Lord may I cry , Receive my Soul into thy hands , for now to thee I fly : And be a Father loving Lord , unto thy Children small , Which I shall leave thee in this world , when thou dost for me call . Also I pray thee loving Lord , to give their mother grace , To train my Children in thy fear , that they may thee embrace : And from the enticements of this world the flesh and filthy fiend , Lord aid them with thy mighty hand , and guide them to the end . That at the last and dreadful day , thou mayest receive us all , Under the cover of thy Wings , we may be free from thrall : And once again my loving Lord , I do thee hearty prey , Even for thy Son Christ Jesus sake , to wash our sins away . Printed for J.W. J.C. W.T. and TO , P . The sorrowful Lamentation of a Penitent Sinner . To the Tune of , The Lamentation of a Sinner . O Lord my God I come to thee , in all my grief and pain , Now turn to me in my distress , and comfort me again : And enter not to judgement Lord , with sinful dust and clay . Nor with thy servant be not wrath nor turn thy face away . And lay not Lord thy hand on me , too heavy is thy fume , For I am week and in thy wrath , I quickly shall consume : I am afraid of thee Oh Lord , because thou didst me beatrice , But yet I know that Jesus Christ , will for my soul entreat . I am a sinful wretch , Oh Lord , for mercy I do cry , Now help me Lord in my distress , and extreme misery : For unto thee Lord do I cry , by night and eke by day , Now help me for thy mercy sake , and that without delay . But do not beatrice me over much , my loving Father sweet . Lest that this frail and wicked flesh , should from sweet Jesus fleet I come again unto thee Lord , I do thee now embrace , And turn to me thy countenance , thy favour and thy face . And bring me home unto thy fold , for I am gone astray , And wandered in and unknown path , which brought me to decay . But now to thee my loving Lord , for mercy I do cry , Now hear my plaint sweet Jesus Christ and ease my misery . And when it is thy gracious will , that I this sinful life shall leave , Sweet Jesus Christ into thy hands I do my Soul bequeathe : And here I do entreat thee Lord , from the bottom of my heart , That from my faith in Jesus Christ , I never do depart . But in the very pangs of death , to thee Lord may I cry , Receive my Soul into thy hands , for now to thee I fly : And be a Father loving Lord , unto thy Children small , Which I shall leave thee in this world , when thou dost for me call . Also I pray thee loving Lord , to give their mother grace , To train my Children in thy fear , that they may thee embrace : And from the enticements of this world the flesh and filthy fiend , Lord aid them with thy mighty hand , and guide them to the end . That at the last and dreadful day , thou mayest receive us all , Under the cover of thy Wings , we may be free from thrall : And once again my loving Lord , I do thee hearty prey , Even for thy Son Christ Jesus sake , to wash our sins away . Printed for J.W. J.C. W.T. and TO , P . 