And Excellent New SONG , CALLED , The Baily of Hounslow : SHOWING How he would Marry the Hopping Widow , and fling off poor Dorothy , who has had Three Children by him . Tune of , The City Ramble . THe Baily that now goes a Wooing to Molly that limps as she goes , Has been Dorothys utter undoing , which all the Town very well knows , With a fa la la , etc But if there be any among you , that knows not the tr [ u ] th of my Song , Then here I'll declare you the Story , and tell me I lie if you can , With a fa la la , etc This Dorothy formerly lived , with Tommy in his late wives days , And was by the Baily deceived , who made her consent to his ways , With a fa la la [ , ] etc And several years they have sported , and billed together like Doves ; But now a lame Widow is Courted , that's excellent at selling of Gloves . With a fa la la , etc For she has a very good Calling , and can get her Guinea a day ; Then prithee Dol . don't make a bawling , I'll keep thee both Gallant and Gay . With a fa la la , etc Cries Dol I will not be thus used , your keeping I scorn on my Life ; Oh! how will my Girl be abused , when hopping Mol . is made your Wife . With a fa la la , etc Beside there's a Coachman went to her , but being informed to take care , He said that the Baily might woe her , since Twenty they're sure knew her ware . With a fa la la , etc For Mischief perhaps they'll be more yet , if that you this Widow should Wed , Her Sons they'll kill you they've swore it , that's William , brisk John , and bold Ned . With a fa la la , etc And as for the Widows strange Folly , in tying you up in a Bound , Of a hundred Pound never to strike Molly , when Wed , Obligations are gone . With a fa la la , etc Now one thing more I have to tell you , if that you'll consider the same , None but you made me commit Folly , to leave me now you are to blame . With a fa la la , etc Take warning all you that's unmarried , and trust not to any Man's Tongue , Or else you may chance to miscarry , as you find by my Song I have done . With a fa la la , etc Now Thomas for Marrying consider , which of us two you ought to take , Old M [ oh ] l . your rich hopping Widow , or Dol . who's undone for your sake . With a fa la la , etc FINIS . And Excellent New SONG , CALLED , The Baily of Hounslow : SHOWING How he would Marry the Hopping Widow , and fling off poor Dorothy , who has had Three Children by him . Tune of , The City Ramble . THe Baily that now goes a Wooing to Molly that limps as she goes , Has been Dorothys utter undoing , which all the Town very well knows , With a fa la la , etc But if there be any among you , that knows not the tr [ u ] th of my Song , Then here I'll declare you the Story , and tell me I lie if you can , With a fa la la , etc This Dorothy formerly lived , with Tommy in his late wives days , And was by the Baily deceived , who made her consent to his ways , With a fa la la [ , ] etc And several years they have sported , and billed together like Doves ; But now a lame Widow is Courted , that's excellent at selling of Gloves . With a fa la la , etc For she has a very good Calling , and can get her Guinea a day ; Then prithee Dol . don't make a bawling , I'll keep thee both Gallant and Gay . With a fa la la , etc Cries Dol I will not be thus used , your keeping I scorn on my Life ; Oh! how will my Girl be abused , when hopping Mol . is made your Wife . With a fa la la , etc Beside there's a Coachman went to her , but being informed to take care , He said that the Baily might woe her , since Twenty they're sure knew her ware . With a fa la la , etc For Mischief perhaps they'll be more yet , if that you this Widow should Wed , Her Sons they'll kill you they've swore it , that's William , brisk John , and bold Ned . With a fa la la , etc And as for the Widows strange Folly , in tying you up in a Bound , Of a hundred Pound never to strike Molly , when Wed , Obligations are gone . With a fa la la , etc Now one thing more I have to tell you , if that you'll consider the same , None but you made me commit Folly , to leave me now you are to blame . With a fa la la , etc Take warning all you that's unmarried , and trust not to any Man's Tongue , Or else you may chance to miscarry , as you find by my Song I have done . With a fa la la , etc Now Thomas for Marrying consider , which of us two you ought to take , Old M [ oh ] l . your rich hopping Widow , or Dol . who's undone for your sake . With a fa la la , etc FINIS . 