The Unconstant Maiden , Or , The Forsaken Young-Man . Showing how a Devonshire - Damsel Married another , while her Lover was come to London , to his great grief . To a pleasant New tune . Licensed according to Order . ( I ) MAN . FArewell my Dearest Dear , now I must leave thee ; Those bright and Shining Eyes cause me to love thee ; Those Cherry Cheeks of thine , that need no blushes , Those Read and Ruby-Lips burns me to Ashes . ( II ) Here is a Ring of Gold , my Dear accept it ; It's for your sake alone , long have I kept it ; Read but the Posy oned , Think on the Giver ; Madam I die for love , I die for ever . ( III . ) Bad News is come to town , bad News is carried ; Bad News is come to town , my Love is Married ; Bad News is come to town , I fell a weeping ; My Love was was stole away , as I lay sleeping . ( IV. ) Since you so cruel be to make me wretched ; I'll no more think on thee , sighs I have fetched ; I'll no more dote on her , since she is cruel : She shall be now my scorn , who was my Jewel . ( V. ) WOMAN . FArewel Unconstant Swain , once did I love thee ; But since it was in vain , now I'm above thee : When I told you I loved , and I would have you , Then false to me you proved , and you did leave me . ( VI . ) As for your Ring of Gold , I do abhor it ; You may when you are old , get Money for it : Since that you tell me plain , long you have kept it , Keep it as long again , I'll never accept it . ( VII . ) If I did seem unkind , 'twas but to try you , But now I know your mind , I do defy you : I once thought you to be not so falsehearted ; Had you proved true to me , we never had parted . ( VIII . ) Of all your promises you are forgetful ; Young-Men I find by this , they are deceitful : They vow and swear they love , all to deceive us , And when that Kind we prove , then , then they leave us . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Unconstant Maiden , Or , The Forsaken Young-Man . Showing how a Devonshire - Damsel Married another , while her Lover was come to London , to his great grief . To a pleasant New tune . Licensed according to Order . ( I ) MAN . FArewell my Dearest Dear , now I must leave thee ; Those bright and Shining Eyes cause me to love thee ; Those Cherry Cheeks of thine , that need no blushes , Those Read and Ruby-Lips burns me to Ashes . ( II ) Here is a Ring of Gold , my Dear accept it ; It's for your sake alone , long have I kept it ; Read but the Posy oned , Think on the Giver ; Madam I die for love , I die for ever . ( III . ) Bad News is come to town , bad News is carried ; Bad News is come to town , my Love is Married ; Bad News is come to town , I fell a weeping ; My Love was was stole away , as I lay sleeping . ( IV. ) Since you so cruel be to make me wretched ; I'll no more think on thee , sighs I have fetched ; I'll no more dote on her , since she is cruel : She shall be now my scorn , who was my Jewel . ( V. ) WOMAN . FArewel Unconstant Swain , once did I love thee ; But since it was in vain , now I'm above thee : When I told you I loved , and I would have you , Then false to me you proved , and you did leave me . ( VI . ) As for your Ring of Gold , I do abhor it ; You may when you are old , get Money for it : Since that you tell me plain , long you have kept it , Keep it as long again , I'll never accept it . ( VII . ) If I did seem unkind , 'twas but to try you , But now I know your mind , I do defy you : I once thought you to be not so falsehearted ; Had you proved true to me , we never had parted . ( VIII . ) Of all your promises you are forgetful ; Young-Men I find by this , they are deceitful : They vow and swear they love , all to deceive us , And when that Kind we prove , then , then they leave us . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 