Amantium irae Amoris redintegratio est . The falling out of Lovers , is the renewing of Love To the tune of the Meadow brow . COme my best and dearest , come fit thee down by me : When thou and I am nearest , breeds my felicity : To verify the Proverb , would set my heart at rest , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . My fair and chaste Penelope , declare to me thy mind : Wherein I have offended thee , to make the prove unkind : I never urg'd the cause in earnest or in jest , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Thy beauty gave me much content , thy virtue gave me more : Thy modest kind civility , which I do much adore : Thy modest stately Jesture , lives shrined in my bres Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . How dearly I have loved thee , thou wilt confess and tell : More then my tongue can here express , my fair and sweetest Nell : O hadst thou been but true in love , I had been double bles Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . And wilt thou then forsake me love , and thus from me be gone , Whom I do hold my turtle dove , my peerless Paragon : The Phoenix of the world , and pillow of my res Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Fair Cynthia the want of thee does breed my overthrow : My body is my agony does melt away like snow . The plagues of Egipt could no more torment my tender breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Now I like weeping Niobe may wash my hands in tears , While others gain the love of thee I daunted am with fears . Now may I sighs and wail in woe , disastrously distressed . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . And thus in brevity of time I sadly end my ditty : Which here am left to starve & pine , without remorse or pity . Yet will I prey that still thou mayest remain among the bl [ e ] st . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The Maids Answer , To the same tune . THough falling out of faithful friends renewing be of love : A change of time will make amends a turtle I may prove . And till that change of time with patience be thou blessed , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The trial of Penelope in me is proved true , Miss doubt thou not my constancy , the turtle keeps her hew . And to her chosen mate does bear a loyal bres Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The faithful knot of love is bound I rest thy deer for ever . Thy pining heart with bleeding wound is cured by the giver . The shaft of love I shot returns into my breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . I made but trial of thy heart , how constant it would be : And now I see thou wilt not start nor fleet away from me : Though Cressida I prove , yet Troylus thou wilt rest . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Account me for no woman kind , if I undo the know Or bear the false & faithless mind to have the same forgotten , That once betwixt us two , were sealed in each breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The silver Moon shall shine by day , the golden Sun by night . Ere I will go that wanton way , wherein some take delight . But for AEneas I with Dido pierce my breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Though I have been untrue , unjust and changing like the Moon : Yet in thy kindness do I trust that I may have this boon : That sweet forgiveness may bring comfort from thy breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . You chryst [ a ] ll Planets shine all clear and light a Lovers way : Let me embrace my lovely Dear , which was I doubt a stray : If once I get the same I'll feed it in my breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Come mourn with me each loving Lass that Cupids darlings be Gran love will change like wiltered grass the same behold in me , If I had steadfast been then had my love been blessed , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . Amantium irae Amoris redintegratio est . The falling out of Lovers , is the renewing of Love To the tune of the Meadow brow . COme my best and dearest , come fit thee down by me : When thou and I am nearest , breeds my felicity : To verify the Proverb , would set my heart at rest , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . My fair and chaste Penelope , declare to me thy mind : Wherein I have offended thee , to make the prove unkind : I never urg'd the cause in earnest or in jest , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Thy beauty gave me much content , thy virtue gave me more : Thy modest kind civility , which I do much adore : Thy modest stately Jesture , lives shrined in my bres Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . How dearly I have loved thee , thou wilt confess and tell : More then my tongue can here express , my fair and sweetest Nell : O hadst thou been but true in love , I had been double bles Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . And wilt thou then forsake me love , and thus from me be gone , Whom I do hold my turtle dove , my peerless Paragon : The Phoenix of the world , and pillow of my res Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Fair Cynthia the want of thee does breed my overthrow : My body is my agony does melt away like snow . The plagues of Egipt could no more torment my tender breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Now I like weeping Niobe may wash my hands in tears , While others gain the love of thee I daunted am with fears . Now may I sighs and wail in woe , disastrously distressed . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . And thus in brevity of time I sadly end my ditty : Which here am left to starve & pine , without remorse or pity . Yet will I prey that still thou mayest remain among the bl [ e ] st . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The Maids Answer , To the same tune . THough falling out of faithful friends renewing be of love : A change of time will make amends a turtle I may prove . And till that change of time with patience be thou blessed , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The trial of Penelope in me is proved true , Miss doubt thou not my constancy , the turtle keeps her hew . And to her chosen mate does bear a loyal bres Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The faithful knot of love is bound I rest thy deer for ever . Thy pining heart with bleeding wound is cured by the giver . The shaft of love I shot returns into my breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . I made but trial of thy heart , how constant it would be : And now I see thou wilt not start nor fleet away from me : Though Cressida I prove , yet Troylus thou wilt rest . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Account me for no woman kind , if I undo the know Or bear the false & faithless mind to have the same forgotten , That once betwixt us two , were sealed in each breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The silver Moon shall shine by day , the golden Sun by night . Ere I will go that wanton way , wherein some take delight . But for AEneas I with Dido pierce my breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Though I have been untrue , unjust and changing like the Moon : Yet in thy kindness do I trust that I may have this boon : That sweet forgiveness may bring comfort from thy breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . You chryst [ a ] ll Planets shine all clear and light a Lovers way : Let me embrace my lovely Dear , which was I doubt a stray : If once I get the same I'll feed it in my breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Come mourn with me each loving Lass that Cupids darlings be Gran love will change like wiltered grass the same behold in me , If I had steadfast been then had my love been blessed , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . Amantium irae Amoris redintegratio est . The falling out of Lovers , is the renewing of Love To the tune of the Meadow brow . COme my best and dearest , come fit thee down by me : When thou and I am nearest , breeds my felicity : To verify the Proverb , would set my heart at rest , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . My fair and chaste Penelope , declare to me thy mind : Wherein I have offended thee , to make the prove unkind : I never urg'd the cause in earnest or in jest , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Thy beauty gave me much content , thy virtue gave me more : Thy modest kind civility , which I do much adore : Thy modest stately Jesture , lives shrined in my bres Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . How dearly I have loved thee , thou wilt confess and tell : More then my tongue can here express , my fair and sweetest Nell : O hadst thou been but true in love , I had been double bles Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . And wilt thou then forsake me love , and thus from me be gone , Whom I do hold my turtle dove , my peerless Paragon : The Phoenix of the world , and pillow of my res Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Fair Cynthia the want of thee does breed my overthrow : My body is my agony does melt away like snow . The plagues of Egipt could no more torment my tender breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Now I like weeping Niobe may wash my hands in tears , While others gain the love of thee I daunted am with fears . Now may I sighs and wail in woe , disastrously distressed . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . And thus in brevity of time I sadly end my ditty : Which here am left to starve & pine , without remorse or pity . Yet will I prey that still thou mayest remain among the bl [ e ] st . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The Maids Answer , To the same tune . THough falling out of faithful friends renewing be of love : A change of time will make amends a turtle I may prove . And till that change of time with patience be thou blessed , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The trial of Penelope in me is proved true , Miss doubt thou not my constancy , the turtle keeps her hew . And to her chosen mate does bear a loyal bres Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The faithful knot of love is bound I rest thy deer for ever . Thy pining heart with bleeding wound is cured by the giver . The shaft of love I shot returns into my breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . I made but trial of thy heart , how constant it would be : And now I see thou wilt not start nor fleet away from me : Though Cressida I prove , yet Troylus thou wilt rest . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Account me for no woman kind , if I undo the know Or bear the false & faithless mind to have the same forgotten , That once betwixt us two , were sealed in each breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The silver Moon shall shine by day , the golden Sun by night . Ere I will go that wanton way , wherein some take delight . But for AEneas I with Dido pierce my breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Though I have been untrue , unjust and changing like the Moon : Yet in thy kindness do I trust that I may have this boon : That sweet forgiveness may bring comfort from thy breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . You chryst [ a ] ll Planets shine all clear and light a Lovers way : Let me embrace my lovely Dear , which was I doubt a stray : If once I get the same I'll feed it in my breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Come mourn with me each loving Lass that Cupids darlings be Gran love will change like wiltered grass the same behold in me , If I had steadfast been then had my love been blessed , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . Amantium irae Amoris redintegratio est . The falling out of Lovers , is the renewing of Love To the tune of the Meadow brow . COme my best and dearest , come fit thee down by me : When thou and I am nearest , breeds my felicity : To verify the Proverb , would set my heart at rest , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . My fair and chaste Penelope , declare to me thy mind : Wherein I have offended thee , to make the prove unkind : I never urg'd the cause in earnest or in jest , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Thy beauty gave me much content , thy virtue gave me more : Thy modest kind civility , which I do much adore : Thy modest stately Jesture , lives shrined in my bres Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . How dearly I have loved thee , thou wilt confess and tell : More then my tongue can here express , my fair and sweetest Nell : O hadst thou been but true in love , I had been double bles Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . And wilt thou then forsake me love , and thus from me be gone , Whom I do hold my turtle dove , my peerless Paragon : The Phoenix of the world , and pillow of my res Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Fair Cynthia the want of thee does breed my overthrow : My body is my agony does melt away like snow . The plagues of Egipt could no more torment my tender breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Now I like weeping Niobe may wash my hands in tears , While others gain the love of thee I daunted am with fears . Now may I sighs and wail in woe , disastrously distressed . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . And thus in brevity of time I sadly end my ditty : Which here am left to starve & pine , without remorse or pity . Yet will I prey that still thou mayest remain among the bl [ e ] st . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The Maids Answer , To the same tune . THough falling out of faithful friends renewing be of love : A change of time will make amends a turtle I may prove . And till that change of time with patience be thou blessed , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The trial of Penelope in me is proved true , Miss doubt thou not my constancy , the turtle keeps her hew . And to her chosen mate does bear a loyal bres Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The faithful knot of love is bound I rest thy deer for ever . Thy pining heart with bleeding wound is cured by the giver . The shaft of love I shot returns into my breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . I made but trial of thy heart , how constant it would be : And now I see thou wilt not start nor fleet away from me : Though Cressida I prove , yet Troylus thou wilt rest . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Account me for no woman kind , if I undo the know Or bear the false & faithless mind to have the same forgotten , That once betwixt us two , were sealed in each breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . The silver Moon shall shine by day , the golden Sun by night . Ere I will go that wanton way , wherein some take delight . But for AEneas I with Dido pierce my breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Though I have been untrue , unjust and changing like the Moon : Yet in thy kindness do I trust that I may have this boon : That sweet forgiveness may bring comfort from thy breast . Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . You chryst [ a ] ll Planets shine all clear and light a Lovers way : Let me embrace my lovely Dear , which was I doubt a stray : If once I get the same I'll feed it in my breast , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Come mourn with me each loving Lass that Cupids darlings be Gran love will change like wiltered grass the same behold in me , If I had steadfast been then had my love been blessed , Amantium irae amoris redintegratio est . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . 