And Askew , Entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me , Long have I sought , but fain would fain , what Herb in my Garden were best to be . A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me I mean my body , where I should have sown the seed of Christs true verity . My spirit within me is vexed soar , my spirit striveth against the same , My sorrows do increase more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with my self being thus at strife , would fain have been at rest ; musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best , With whole intent and one accord , unto a Gardener that I did know , I desired him for the love of the Lord , true seed in my garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will , And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in my blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for venial sins he bid me go : to give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . with stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my Salvation , I had Trentals of mass , and balls of Led , not one word spoke of Christ's passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds , still Gods Spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most [ strictly ] , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry , to be pray'd for while the world does endure . beware of a new learning quoth he , it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with [ it ] in any manner of wise . but do as your Father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devils works , thinking sufficient my Soul to save , being worse than either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his merits I did deprave . I might liken my self with a woeful heart , unto the Dumb man in Lycia the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas I shall die the sooner therefore . O Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such Sinners [ ? ] the Scripture says , that would gladly Repent , & follow thy word Which isle not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot , or fierce sword . Strengthen me good Lord in thy truth to stand , for the bloody butchers have me at their will , with their slaughter knives ready drawn in their hands my simple Cartals to devour and kill . O Lord forgive me my offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful body from hence , then shall I vile Creature offend thee no more I would with all creatures and faithful friends for to keep from this Gardeners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce fire brands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent Seed abroad he hath sown . because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show , I trust hereafter that by God's holy Grace , that all faithful men shall plainly know . to thee Oh Lord I bequeathe my spirit , that art the Workmaster of the same , it is thine Lord , therefore take it of right , my carcase on earth I leave from whence it came Although to ashes it be now burned , I know thou canst raise it again : In the same likeness as thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . And Askew , Entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me , Long have I sought , but fain would fain , what Herb in my Garden were best to be . A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me I mean my body , where I should have sown the seed of Christs true verity . My spirit within me is vexed soar , my spirit striveth against the same , My sorrows do increase more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with my self being thus at strife , would fain have been at rest ; musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best , With whole intent and one accord , unto a Gardener that I did know , I desired him for the love of the Lord , true seed in my garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will , And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in my blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for venial sins he bid me go : to give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . with stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my Salvation , I had Trentals of mass , and balls of Led , not one word spoke of Christ's passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds , still Gods Spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most [ strictly ] , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry , to be pray'd for while the world does endure . beware of a new learning quoth he , it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with [ it ] in any manner of wise . but do as your Father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devils works , thinking sufficient my Soul to save , being worse than either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his merits I did deprave . I might liken my self with a woeful heart , unto the Dumb man in Lycia the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas I shall die the sooner therefore . O Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such Sinners [ ? ] the Scripture says , that would gladly Repent , & follow thy word Which isle not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot , or fierce sword . Strengthen me good Lord in thy truth to stand , for the bloody butchers have me at their will , with their slaughter knives ready drawn in their hands my simple Cartals to devour and kill . O Lord forgive me my offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful body from hence , then shall I vile Creature offend thee no more I would with all creatures and faithful friends for to keep from this Gardeners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce fire brands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent Seed abroad he hath sown . because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show , I trust hereafter that by God's holy Grace , that all faithful men shall plainly know . to thee Oh Lord I bequeathe my spirit , that art the Workmaster of the same , it is thine Lord , therefore take it of right , my carcase on earth I leave from whence it came Although to ashes it be now burned , I know thou canst raise it again : In the same likeness as thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . 