The Rarest BALLAD that ever was seen , Of the Blind BEGGER's DAUGHTER of Bednal-Green . IT was a blind Beggar that long lost his sighed , He had a fair Daughter most pleasant & bright , And many a gallant brave suitor had she , For none was so comely as pretty Bessee . And though she was of favour most fair , Yet seeing she was but a Beggar his heir , Of ancient housekeepers Despised was she , Whose sons came as suitors to pretty Bessee . Wherefore in great sorrow fair Bessee did say : Good father and mother let me go away , To seek out my fortune wherever it be ; The sum [ i ] tO was then granted to pretty Bessee . Thus Bessee that was of beauty most bright , Then clad in grey russet , & late in the night From father & mother alone parted she , Who sighed & sobbed for pretty Bessee . She went till she came at Stratford at Bow , Then knew she not whither nor which way to go , With tears she lamented her hard Destiny , So sad & so heavy was pretty Bessee . She kept on her journey until it was Day , And went unto Rumford along the highway , And at the Kings-arms entertained was she , So fair & well-favoured was pretty Bessee . She had not been there one month to and end , But master , & mistress , & all was her friend , And every brave gallant that once did her see , Was straightway in love with pretty Bessee . Great Gifts they did send her of silver & gold , And in their songs Daily her love they extolled ; Her beauty was blazed in every degree , So fair & so comely was pretty Bessee . The youngmen of Rumford in her had their joy She shew'd herself courteous , but never too coy , And at their commandment still would she be , So fair & so comely is pretty Bessee . Four suitors at once unto her did go , They craved her favour , but still she said no ; I would not wish Gentlemen to marry with me , Yet ever they honoured pretty Bessee . The one of them was a gallant young knight , And he came to her Disguis'd in the night ; The second a Gentleman of good Degree , Who wooed & sued for pretty Bessee . A Merchant of Lond. whose wealth was not small , Was then the third suitor , & proper withal ; Her master's own son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would Die for pretty Bessee . And if thou wilt marry with me , quod the Knight , I'll make thee a Lady with joy and delight , My heart is enthralled by thy beauty , Then grant me thy favour my pretty Bessee . The Gentleman said : Come marry with me , In silks and in velvet my Bessee shall be , My heart lies distressed , Oh hear me , quoth he , And grant me thy love my pretty Bessee . Let me be thy husband , the Merchant did say , Thou shalt live in London most gallant and gay , My ships shall bring home rich jewels for thee , And I will for ever love pretty Bessee . Then Bessee she sighed & thus she did say , My father and mother I mean to obey , First get their goodwill , and be faithful to me , And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessee : To every one this answer she made , Wherefore unto her they joyfully said , This thing to fulfil we all do agree , But where dwells thy father [ ? ] my pretty Bessee My father ( quoth she ) is plain to be seen , The silly blind beggar of Bednal-green . That daily sits begging for Charity , He is the good father of pretty Bessee : His marks and his tokens are known full well , He always is led with a dog and a bell , A silly Old man God knoweth is he , Yet he is the Father of pretty Bessee . Nay then ( quoth the Merchant ) thou art not for me Nor ( quoth the Inholder ) my wife shall not be ; I loath ( quoth the Gentleman ) a beggars degree , Therefore fare you well my pretty Bessee , Why then ( quoth the knight ) hap better or worse I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse And beauty is beauty in every degree , Then welcome to me my pretty Bessee With thee to thy father forthwith will I go ; Nay soft ( quoth his kinsman ) it must not be so , A begger's daughter no Lady shall be , Then take thy adieu of pretty Bessee And soon after this by break of the Day , The knight had from Rumford stole Betty away ; The Young men of Rumford so sick as may be , Road after to fetch again pretty Bessee . As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Until they came near to Bednal-green ; And as the knight lighted most courteously , They fought against him for pretty Bessee . But rescue came presently over the plain , Or else the knight for his love there had been slave The fray being ended , then straight he did see His kinsman come railing at pretty Bessee . Then speak the blind beggar , altho' I be poor , Rail not against my child at mine own door , Tho' she be not decked with velvet and pearl , Yet will I drop angels with thee for my Girl ; And then if my gold will better her birth , And equal the gold that you lay on the earth , Then neither rail nor grudge you to see The blind begger's daughter a lady to be ; But first I will hear , and have it well known , The gold that you drop shall be all your own . With that they replied , Contented we be ; Then there's ( quoth the beggar ) for pretty Bessee With that and angel be cast on the ground And dropped in angels full three thousand pound , And oftentimes it proved most plain , For the gentleman's one the beggar drove twain , So as the place whereas he did fit , With gold was covered every whi The Gentleman having dropped all his store , Said , Beggar hold , for I have no more , Thou hast fulfilled thy promise aright ; Then marry my girl , quoth he to the knight , And here , quoth he , I'll throw you down A hundred pound more to buy her a gown : The Gentlemen all that this treasure had seen , Admired the Beggar of Bednal-green . And those that were her suitors before , Their flesh for very anger they tore : Thus was their Bessee matched to a knight , And made a lady in others Despite ; A fairer Lady there never was seen , Than the beggars Daughter of Bednal-green . But of her sumptuous marriage & feast , And what brave Lords & Knights thither was pressed , The second part shall set forth to your sighed , With marvelous pleasure & wished Delight , Of a blind beggars Daughter most fair & bright ; That late was betrothed to a young knight , All the Discourse thereof you may see , But now comes the wedding of pretty Bessee . WIthin a gallant Palace most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have , This wedding was kept most sumptuo [ u ] sly And all for the love of pretty Bessee . All kind of Dainties & Delicates sweet Was brought to their banquet as was thought meet , Patridge , plover , & venison most free , Against the brave wedding of pretty Bessee , This wedding thro' England was spread by report , So that a great number did thither res [ or ] tO , Of Nobles & Gentiles of every Degree , And all for the fame of pretty Bessee . To church then went this gallant young Knight His bride followed after like a Lady most bright , With troops of Ladies the Like was never seen , As we [ n ] tO with sweet Bessee of Bednal-green . This wedding being solemnized , then With mu [ s ] ick performed by skilful men , The Nobles & Gentiles sat down at that tide , Each one beholding the beautiful bride . But after their sumptuous Dinner was done . [ TO ] oh talk & to reason a number begun , of the blind beggars Daughter most bright , And what with his Daughter he gave to the Knight . Then speak the Nobles , Much marvel have we , The jolly blind beggar we cannot here see : My Lords , quoth the bride , my father's so base , He's loath with his presence these states to disgrace The praise of a woman in quest on to bring , Before her own face were a flattering thing , We think thy father's baseness ( quoth they ) Might by thy beauty be clean put away ; They had no sooner these pleasant words spoke , But in comes the beggar with a silken cloak , A velvet cap & a feather had he , And now a Musician forsooth he would be : And being led in from catching of harm , He had a Dainty Lute under his arm , Said , Please you hear any music of me , A song I will sing you of pretty Bessee . With that his Lute he twang'd straightway , And thereon began most sweetly to play , And after a lesson was played two or three , H [ e ] strain'd out this song most Delicately : A beggars daughter did dwell on the green , Who for her beauty may well be a queen , A blithe bonay Lass and dainty was she , And many one called her pretty Bessee . Her father had no goods nor no lands , But begged for a penny all day with The Rarest BALLAD that ever was seen , Of the Blind BEGGER's DAUGHTER of Bednal-Green . IT was a blind Beggar that long lost his sighed , He had a fair Daughter most pleasant & bright , And many a gallant brave suitor had she , For none was so comely as pretty Bessee . And though she was of favour most fair , Yet seeing she was but a Beggar his heir , Of ancient housekeepers Despised was she , Whose sons came as suitors to pretty Bessee . Wherefore in great sorrow fair Bessee did say : Good father and mother let me go away , To seek out my fortune wherever it be ; The sum [ i ] tO was then granted to pretty Bessee . Thus Bessee that was of beauty most bright , Then clad in grey russet , & late in the night From father & mother alone parted she , Who sighed & sobbed for pretty Bessee . She went till she came at Stratford at Bow , Then knew she not whither nor which way to go , With tears she lamented her hard Destiny , So sad & so heavy was pretty Bessee . She kept on her journey until it was Day , And went unto Rumford along the highway , And at the Kings-arms entertained was she , So fair & well-favoured was pretty Bessee . She had not been there one month to and end , But master , & mistress , & all was her friend , And every brave gallant that once did her see , Was straightway in love with pretty Bessee . Great Gifts they did send her of silver & gold , And in their songs Daily her love they extolled ; Her beauty was blazed in every degree , So fair & so comely was pretty Bessee . The youngmen of Rumford in her had their joy She shew'd herself courteous , but never too coy , And at their commandment still would she be , So fair & so comely is pretty Bessee . Four suitors at once unto her did go , They craved her favour , but still she said no ; I would not wish Gentlemen to marry with me , Yet ever they honoured pretty Bessee . The one of them was a gallant young knight , And he came to her Disguis'd in the night ; The second a Gentleman of good Degree , Who wooed & sued for pretty Bessee . A Merchant of Lond. whose wealth was not small , Was then the third suitor , & proper withal ; Her master's own son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would Die for pretty Bessee . And if thou wilt marry with me , quod the Knight , I'll make thee a Lady with joy and delight , My heart is enthralled by thy beauty , Then grant me thy favour my pretty Bessee . The Gentleman said : Come marry with me , In silks and in velvet my Bessee shall be , My heart lies distressed , Oh hear me , quoth he , And grant me thy love my pretty Bessee . Let me be thy husband , the Merchant did say , Thou shalt live in London most gallant and gay , My ships shall bring home rich jewels for thee , And I will for ever love pretty Bessee . Then Bessee she sighed & thus she did say , My father and mother I mean to obey , First get their goodwill , and be faithful to me , And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessee : To every one this answer she made , Wherefore unto her they joyfully said , This thing to fulfil we all do agree , But where dwells thy father [ ? ] my pretty Bessee My father ( quoth she ) is plain to be seen , The silly blind beggar of Bednal-green . That daily sits begging for Charity , He is the good father of pretty Bessee : His marks and his tokens are known full well , He always is led with a dog and a bell , A silly Old man God knoweth is he , Yet he is the Father of pretty Bessee . Nay then ( quoth the Merchant ) thou art not for me Nor ( quoth the Inholder ) my wife shall not be ; I loath ( quoth the Gentleman ) a beggars degree , Therefore fare you well my pretty Bessee , Why then ( quoth the knight ) hap better or worse I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse And beauty is beauty in every degree , Then welcome to me my pretty Bessee With thee to thy father forthwith will I go ; Nay soft ( quoth his kinsman ) it must not be so , A begger's daughter no Lady shall be , Then take thy adieu of pretty Bessee And soon after this by break of the Day , The knight had from Rumford stole Betty away ; The Young men of Rumford so sick as may be , Road after to fetch again pretty Bessee . As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Until they came near to Bednal-green ; And as the knight lighted most courteously , They fought against him for pretty Bessee . But rescue came presently over the plain , Or else the knight for his love there had been slave The fray being ended , then straight he did see His kinsman come railing at pretty Bessee . Then speak the blind beggar , altho' I be poor , Rail not against my child at mine own door , Tho' she be not decked with velvet and pearl , Yet will I drop angels with thee for my Girl ; And then if my gold will better her birth , And equal the gold that you lay on the earth , Then neither rail nor grudge you to see The blind begger's daughter a lady to be ; But first I will hear , and have it well known , The gold that you drop shall be all your own . With that they replied , Contented we be ; Then there's ( quoth the beggar ) for pretty Bessee With that and angel be cast on the ground And dropped in angels full three thousand pound , And oftentimes it proved most plain , For the gentleman's one the beggar drove twain , So as the place whereas he did fit , With gold was covered every whi The Gentleman having dropped all his store , Said , Beggar hold , for I have no more , Thou hast fulfilled thy promise aright ; Then marry my girl , quoth he to the knight , And here , quoth he , I'll throw you down A hundred pound more to buy her a gown : The Gentlemen all that this treasure had seen , Admired the Beggar of Bednal-green . And those that were her suitors before , Their flesh for very anger they tore : Thus was their Bessee matched to a knight , And made a lady in others Despite ; A fairer Lady there never was seen , Than the beggars Daughter of Bednal-green . But of her sumptuous marriage & feast , And what brave Lords & Knights thither was pressed , The second part shall set forth to your sighed , With marvelous pleasure & wished Delight , Of a blind beggars Daughter most fair & bright ; That late was betrothed to a young knight , All the Discourse thereof you may see , But now comes the wedding of pretty Bessee . WIthin a gallant Palace most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have , This wedding was kept most sumptuo [ u ] sly And all for the love of pretty Bessee . All kind of Dainties & Delicates sweet Was brought to their banquet as was thought meet , Patridge , plover , & venison most free , Against the brave wedding of pretty Bessee , This wedding thro' England was spread by report , So that a great number did thither res [ or ] tO , Of Nobles & Gentiles of every Degree , And all for the fame of pretty Bessee . To church then went this gallant young Knight His bride followed after like a Lady most bright , With troops of Ladies the Like was never seen , As we [ n ] tO with sweet Bessee of Bednal-green . This wedding being solemnized , then With mu [ s ] ick performed by skilful men , The Nobles & Gentiles sat down at that tide , Each one beholding the beautiful bride . But after their sumptuous Dinner was done . [ TO ] oh talk & to reason a number begun , of the blind beggars Daughter most bright , And what with his Daughter he gave to the Knight . Then speak the Nobles , Much marvel have we , The jolly blind beggar we cannot here see : My Lords , quoth the bride , my father's so base , He's loath with his presence these states to disgrace The praise of a woman in quest on to bring , Before her own face were a flattering thing , We think thy father's baseness ( quoth they ) Might by thy beauty be clean put away ; They had no sooner these pleasant words spoke , But in comes the beggar with a silken cloak , A velvet cap & a feather had he , And now a Musician forsooth he would be : And being led in from catching of harm , He had a Dainty Lute under his arm , Said , Please you hear any music of me , A song I will sing you of pretty Bessee . With that his Lute he twang'd straightway , And thereon began most sweetly to play , And after a lesson was played two or three , H [ e ] strain'd out this song most Delicately : A beggars daughter did dwell on the green , Who for her beauty may well be a queen , A blithe bonay Lass and dainty was she , And many one called her pretty Bessee . Her father had no goods nor no lands , But begged for a penny all day with his hands , And yet for her marriage gave thousands three , [ Y ] et still hath somewhat for pretty Bessee . And if any one her birth do disdain , Her father is ready with might & main , To prove s [ h ] e is come of a noble degree , Therefore let none flout at my pretty Bessee With that the Lords & company round , with hearty laughter was [ r ] eady to found , At last said the Lords , Full well woe may see , The bride and the begger's beholden to thee . with that the bride all blushing did rise , with the fair water all in her fair eyes : Pardon my father , grave Nobles ( quoth she ) That through blind affection thus dotes on me . If this be thy father , the Nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this happy Day ; Yet by his countenance well we may see , His birth with his fortune did never agree , And therefore blind beggar we pray thee bewray , And look that the truth to us thou do say ; Thy birth & thy parentage what it might be . Even for the love thou bearest to pretty Bessee . Then give me leave you Gentiles each one , A song more to sing and then I'll be gone ; And if that I do not win good report , Then do not give me a groat for my sport . When first our King his fame did advance , And fought for his title in delicate France : In many places great perils past he , But then was not born my pretty Bessee , And in those wars went over to fight Many a brave Duke , a Lord , and a Knight , And with 'em young Monford of courage so free But then was not born my pretty Bessee And there did young Monford with a blow oth' face Loose both his eyes in a very short space , His life also had been gone with his sighed , Had not a young woman come forth i'th night , among the slave men her fancy did move , To search and to seek for her own true love ; Who seeing Young Monford there gasping lie , She saved his life through her charity . And then all our victuals in beggars attire , At hands of good people we then did require : At last into England , as now is seen , We came and remained at Bednal-green : And thus we have lived in fortune's worser [ e ] spite Tho' poor yet contented with humble deligh And in my old Years a comfort to be , God sent me a daughter called pretty Bessee . And thus you Nobles my song I do end , Hoping the same no man does offend ; Full forty long winter's thus have I been , A silly blind beggar of Bednal-green . Now when the company every one , Did hear the strange tale in song he had shown , They were all amazed , as well they might be , Both at the blind beggar and pretty Bessee . With that the fair Bride they then did embrace , Saying , You are come of and honourable raze , Thy father likewise of a high degree , And thou as worthy a Lady to be . Thus was the feast ended with Joy & Delight , A happy Bridegroom was made the Young Knight who lived in Joy and Felicity , with his fair Lady pretty Bessee . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-Bridge . his hands , And yet for her marriage gave thousands three , [ Y ] et still hath somewhat for pretty Bessee . And if any one her birth do disdain , Her father is ready with might & main , To prove s [ h ] e is come of a noble degree , Therefore let none flout at my pretty Bessee With that the Lords & company round , with hearty laughter was [ r ] eady to found , At last said the Lords , Full well woe may see , The bride and the begger's beholden to thee . with that the bride all blushing did rise , with the fair water all in her fair eyes : Pardon my father , grave Nobles ( quoth she ) That through blind affection thus dotes on me . If this be thy father , the Nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this happy Day ; Yet by his countenance well we may see , His birth with his fortune did never agree , And therefore blind beggar we pray thee bewray , And look that the truth to us thou do say ; Thy birth & thy parentage what it might be . Even for the love thou bearest to pretty Bessee . Then give me leave you Gentiles each one , A song more to sing and then I'll be gone ; And if that I do not win good report , Then do not give me a groat for my sport . When first our King his fame did advance , And fought for his title in delicate France : In many places great perils past he , But then was not born my pretty Bessee , And in those wars went over to fight Many a brave Duke , a Lord , and a Knight , And with 'em young Monford of courage so free But then was not born my pretty Bessee And there did young Monford with a blow oth' face Loose both his eyes in a very short space , His life also had been gone with his sighed , Had not a young woman come forth i'th night , among the slave men her fancy did move , To search and to seek for her own true love ; Who seeing Young Monford there gasping lie , She saved his life through her charity . And then all our victuals in beggars attire , At hands of good people we then did require : At last into England , as now is seen , We came and remained at Bednal-green : And thus we have lived in fortune's worser [ e ] spite Tho' poor yet contented with humble deligh And in my old Years a comfort to be , God sent me a daughter called pretty Bessee . And thus you Nobles my song I do end , Hoping the same no man does offend ; Full forty long winter's thus have I been , A silly blind beggar of Bednal-green . Now when the company every one , Did hear the strange tale in song he had shown , They were all amazed , as well they might be , Both at the blind beggar and pretty Bessee . With that the fair Bride they then did embrace , Saying , You are come of and honourable raze , Thy father likewise of a high degree , And thou as worthy a Lady to be . Thus was the feast ended with Joy & Delight , A happy Bridegroom was made the Young Knight who lived in Joy and Felicity , with his fair Lady pretty Bessee . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-Bridge . 