THE Catholic BALLAD : OR , AND INVITATION TO POPERY , Upon Considerable Grounds and Reasons . To the Tune of , Eighty eight . SInce Pop'ry of late is so much in debate , And great strivings have been to restore it , I cannot forbear openly to declare , That the Ballad-makers are for it . We'll dispute no more then , these Heretical Men , Have exposed our Books unto laughter , So that many do say , 'twill be the best way , To sing for the Cause hereafter . O the Catholic Cause ! now assist me my Muse , now earnestly do I desire thee ! Neither will I pray to St. Bridget to Day , But only to thee to inspire me . Whence should Purity come , but from Catholic Room ? I wonder much at your folly ? For St. Peter was there , and left and old Chair , Enough to make all the World holy . For this sacred old wood , is so excellent good , If our Doctors may be believe [ e ] worser , That whoever sits there , needs never more fear , The danger of being deceived . If the Devil himself should ( God bless us ) get up , Though his Nature we know to be Evil , Yet while he sat there , as diverse will swear , He would be and infallible Devil . Now who sits in the Seat , but our Father the Pope ? Which is a plain Demonstration As clear as Noonday , we are in a right way , And all others are doom'd to Damnation . If this will not suffice , yet to open your Eyes , Which are blinded with bad Education ; We have Arguments plenty , and Miracles twenty , Enough to convince a whole Nation . If you give but good heed , you shall see the Host bleed , And if any thing can persuade you , And Image shall speak , or at least it shall squeak In the honour of our Lady . You shall see without doubt , the Devil cast out , As of old by Erra Pater ; He shall skip about and tear like a dancing Bear , When he feels the Holy Water . If yet doubtful you are , we have Relics most rare , We can show you the sacred Manger ; Several loads of the Cross , as good as e're was , To preserve your Souls from danger . Should I tell you of all it would move a Stonewall , But I spare you a little for pity , That each one may prepare , and rub up his [ Ear ] , For the Second P [ a ] rt of my Ditty . The Second Part. To the same Tune . NOw listen again to those things that remain , They are matters of weight , I assure you ; And the first thing I say , throw your Bibles away , 'Tis impossible else for to cure you . O that pestilent Book ! never on it more look , I wish I could sing it out louder : It has done Men more harm , I dare boldly [ a ] ffirm Than th' Invention of Guns and Powder . As for matters of faith , believe what the Church says , But for Scripture , leave that to the learned ; For these are Edge-tools , & you Laymen are Fools , If you touch them y'are sure to be harmed . But pray what is it for , ihat you make all this stir ? You must read , you must hear and be learned : If you'l be on our part , we will teach you and Art , That you need not be so much con [ c ] earned . Be the Churches good Son , and your work is half done , After that you may do your own pleasure : If your Beads you can tell , and say Have Mary well , Never doubt of the heavenly treasure . For the Pope keeps the Keys , and can do what he please , And without all peradventure , If you cannot at the Before , yet at the back-Door Of Indulgence you may enter . But first by the way , you must make a short stay At a place called Purgatory , Which the Learned us tell , in the builings of Hell , Is about the middlemost Story . 'Tis a monstrous hight place and a Mark of disgrace , In the Torment on't long to endure : None are kept there but fools , and poor pitiful souls Who c [ a ] n no ready Money procure . And a handsum round Sum you may quickly begun , To the Church has wisely ordein'd , And they who built Crosses and pay well for Masses , Would not there be too long detein'd . And that 'tis a plain c [ a ] se , as the Nose on ones Face , They are in the surest condition , Since none but poor Fools , & some niggardly Owls , And can call into utter perdit [ i ] on . And they faileth you then Oh y [ e ] great and rich Men , For that you will not harken to reason , And as long as y have pence , y [ ' ] need scruple no offence For Murder , Adu [ l ] tery , Treason . And you sweet-natar'd Women , who hold all things common , My addresses to you are most hearty , And to give you your due , you are to us most true , And we hope we shall gain the whole party . If you happen to fallen , your Penance is small , And although you cannot forgo it , We have for you a cure , if of this you be sure , To con [ f ] ess before you go to it . There is one reason yet , which I cannot omit , To those who affect the French Nation , Hereby we advance the Religion of France , The Religion that's only in fashion . If these reasons prevail , ( as how can they fail ? ) To have Popery entertain'd , You cannot conceive , and will hardly believe , What benefits hence may be gain'd . For the Pope shall us bless ( that's not small happiness ) And again we shall see restored The Italian Trade , which formerly made This Land to be so much adored . O the Pictures and Rings , the Beads and fine things , The good Words as sweet as Honey , All this and much more , shall be brought to our Door For a little dull English Money . Then shall Justice and Love , and whatever can move , Be restored again to our Britain : And Learning so common , that every old Woman Shall say her Prayers in Latin . Then the Church shall bear sway , and the State shall obey , Which is now looked upon as a wonder , And the proudest of Kings , with all Temporal things , Shall submit and trickle under . And the Parliament too , who have tak'n us to do , And have handled us with so much Terror ; May chance on that score ( 'tis no time to say more ) They may chance to acknowledge their Error . If any Man yet , shall have so little Wit , As still to be Refractory ; I swear by the Mass , he is a mere Ass , And so there's and end of the Story . FINIS . THE Catholic BALLAD : OR , AND INVITATION TO POPERY , Upon Considerable Grounds and Reasons . To the Tune of , Eighty eight . SInce Pop'ry of late is so much in debate , And great strivings have been to restore it , I cannot forbear openly to declare , That the Ballad-makers are for it . We'll dispute no more then , these Heretical Men , Have exposed our Books unto laughter , So that many do say , 'twill be the best way , To sing for the Cause hereafter . O the Catholic Cause ! now assist me my Muse , now earnestly do I desire thee ! Neither will I pray to St. Bridget to Day , But only to thee to inspire me . Whence should Purity come , but from Catholic Room ? I wonder much at your folly ? For St. Peter was there , and left and old Chair , Enough to make all the World holy . For this sacred old wood , is so excellent good , If our Doctors may be believe [ e ] worser , That whoever sits there , needs never more fear , The danger of being deceived . If the Devil himself should ( God bless us ) get up , Though his Nature we know to be Evil , Yet while he sat there , as diverse will swear , He would be and infallible Devil . Now who sits in the Seat , but our Father the Pope ? Which is a plain Demonstration As clear as Noonday , we are in a right way , And all others are doom'd to Damnation . If this will not suffice , yet to open your Eyes , Which are blinded with bad Education ; We have Arguments plenty , and Miracles twenty , Enough to convince a whole Nation . If you give but good heed , you shall see the Host bleed , And if any thing can persuade you , And Image shall speak , or at least it shall squeak In the honour of our Lady . You shall see without doubt , the Devil cast out , As of old by Erra Pater ; He shall skip about and tear like a dancing Bear , When he feels the Holy Water . If yet doubtful you are , we have Relics most rare , We can show you the sacred Manger ; Several loads of the Cross , as good as e're was , To preserve your Souls from danger . Should I tell you of all it would move a Stonewall , But I spare you a little for pity , That each one may prepare , and rub up his [ Ear ] , For the Second P [ a ] rt of my Ditty . The Second Part. To the same Tune . NOw listen again to those things that remain , They are matters of weight , I assure you ; And the first thing I say , throw your Bibles away , 'Tis impossible else for to cure you . O that pestilent Book ! never on it more look , I wish I could sing it out louder : It has done Men more harm , I dare boldly [ a ] ffirm Than th' Invention of Guns and Powder . As for matters of faith , believe what the Church says , But for Scripture , leave that to the learned ; For these are Edge-tools , & you Laymen are Fools , If you touch them y'are sure to be harmed . But pray what is it for , ihat you make all this stir ? You must read , you must hear and be learned : If you'l be on our part , we will teach you and Art , That you need not be so much con [ c ] earned . Be the Churches good Son , and your work is half done , After that you may do your own pleasure : If your Beads you can tell , and say Have Mary well , Never doubt of the heavenly treasure . For the Pope keeps the Keys , and can do what he please , And without all peradventure , If you cannot at the Before , yet at the back-Door Of Indulgence you may enter . But first by the way , you must make a short stay At a place called Purgatory , Which the Learned us tell , in the builings of Hell , Is about the middlemost Story . 'Tis a monstrous hight place and a Mark of disgrace , In the Torment on't long to endure : None are kept there but fools , and poor pitiful souls Who c [ a ] n no ready Money procure . And a handsum round Sum you may quickly begun , To the Church has wisely ordein'd , And they who built Crosses and pay well for Masses , Would not there be too long detein'd . And that 'tis a plain c [ a ] se , as the Nose on ones Face , They are in the surest condition , Since none but poor Fools , & some niggardly Owls , And can call into utter perdit [ i ] on . And they faileth you then Oh y [ e ] great and rich Men , For that you will not harken to reason , And as long as y have pence , y [ ' ] need scruple no offence For Murder , Adu [ l ] tery , Treason . And you sweet-natar'd Women , who hold all things common , My addresses to you are most hearty , And to give you your due , you are to us most true , And we hope we shall gain the whole party . If you happen to fallen , your Penance is small , And although you cannot forgo it , We have for you a cure , if of this you be sure , To con [ f ] ess before you go to it . There is one reason yet , which I cannot omit , To those who affect the French Nation , Hereby we advance the Religion of France , The Religion that's only in fashion . If these reasons prevail , ( as how can they fail ? ) To have Popery entertain'd , You cannot conceive , and will hardly believe , What benefits hence may be gain'd . For the Pope shall us bless ( that's not small happiness ) And again we shall see restored The Italian Trade , which formerly made This Land to be so much adored . O the Pictures and Rings , the Beads and fine things , The good Words as sweet as Honey , All this and much more , shall be brought to our Door For a little dull English Money . Then shall Justice and Love , and whatever can move , Be restored again to our Britain : And Learning so common , that every old Woman Shall say her Prayers in Latin . Then the Church shall bear sway , and the State shall obey , Which is now looked upon as a wonder , And the proudest of Kings , with all Temporal things , Shall submit and trickle under . And the Parliament too , who have tak'n us to do , And have handled us with so much Terror ; May chance on that score ( 'tis no time to say more ) They may chance to acknowledge their Error . If any Man yet , shall have so little Wit , As still to be Refractory ; I swear by the Mass , he is a mere Ass , And so there's and end of the Story . FINIS . 