A pleasant Country new Ditty : Merrily showing how To drive the cold Winter away . To the tune of , When Phoebus did rest , etc ALl hail to the days , That merit more praise , then all the rest of the year : And welcome the nights , That double delights , as well the poor as the Peer : Good fortune attend , Each merry men friend , that does but the best that he may : Forgetting old wrongs , With Carols and Songs , to drive the cold winter away . Let misery pack , With a whip at his back , to the deep Tantalian flood : In the Lethe profound , Let envy be drown'd , that pines at another men good : Let sorrows expense , Be banded from hence , all payments of grief delay : And wholly consort , With mirth and with sport , to drive the cold winter away . This ill for a mind , To anger inclined , to ruminate injuries now : If wrath be to seek , Do not let her thy cheek , nor yet inhabit thy brow . Cross out of those books , Malevolent looks , both beauty and youths decay : And spend the long night , In honest delight , to drive the cold winter away . The Court in all state , Now opens her gate , and bids a free welcome to mos The City likewise , Though somewhat precise , does willingly part with her cos And yet by report , From City and Court , the Country gets the day : More Liquour is spent , And better content , to drive the cold winter away . The Gentry there , For cost do not spare , the Yeomanry fast in Len The Farmers and such , Think nothing too much , if they keep but to pay their Ren The poorest of all , Do merrily call , want , bears but a little sway : For a Song or a tale , Over a Pot of good Ale , to drive the cold winter away . Thus none will allow , Of solitude now , but merrily greets the time : To make it appear , Of all the whole year , that this is accounted the Prime , December is seen , Apparel'd in green , and January fresh as May : Comes dancing along , With a Cup and a Song , to drive the cold winter away . The second part . To the same tune . THis time of the year , Is spent in good Cheer , kind neighbours together me To fit by the fire , With friendly desire , each other in love to gree Old grudges forgotten , Are put in the Pot , all sorrows aside they lay : The old and the young , Does Carol his Song , to drive the cold winter away . Sisley and Nanny , More jocund then any , as blithe as the Month of June : Do Carol and sing , Like birds of the Spring , no Nightingale sweeter in tune : To bring in content , When Summer is spent , in pleasant delight and play : With mirth and good cheer , To end the old year , and drive the cold winter away . The Shepherd , the Swain , Do highly disdain , to waste out his time in care : And Clim of the Clough , Hath plenty enough , if but a penny he spare : To spend at the night , In joy and delight ; now after his labours all day : For better then Lands , Is help of his hands , to drive the cold winter away . To Mask and to Mum , Kind neighbours will come , with Wassels of not brown Ale ; To drink and carouse , To all in this house , as merry as Bucks in the pale : Where Cake , Bred and Cheese , Is brought for your fees , to make you the longer stay : At the fire to warm , Will do you no harm , to drive the cold winter away . When Christmas tide , Comes in like a Bride , with Holly and Ivy clad : Twelve days in the year , Much mirth and good cheer , in every household is had : The Country guise , Is then to devise , some gambol of Christmas play : Whereas the young men , Do best that they can , to drive the cold winter away . When white-bearded Frost , Hath threatened his worst , and fallen from Branch & Bryer : Then time away calls , From Husbandry Hals , & from the good Countrymans fire : Together to go , To Blow and to sow , to get us both food and array : And thus with content , The time we have spent , to drive the cold winter away . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . A pleasant Country new Ditty : Merrily showing how To drive the cold Winter away . To the tune of , When Phoebus did rest , etc ALl hail to the days , That merit more praise , then all the rest of the year : And welcome the nights , That double delights , as well the poor as the Peer : Good fortune attend , Each merry men friend , that does but the best that he may : Forgetting old wrongs , With Carols and Songs , to drive the cold winter away . Let misery pack , With a whip at his back , to the deep Tantalian flood : In the Lethe profound , Let envy be drown'd , that pines at another men good : Let sorrows expense , Be banded from hence , all payments of grief delay : And wholly consort , With mirth and with sport , to drive the cold winter away . This ill for a mind , To anger inclined , to ruminate injuries now : If wrath be to seek , Do not let her thy cheek , nor yet inhabit thy brow . Cross out of those books , Malevolent looks , both beauty and youths decay : And spend the long night , In honest delight , to drive the cold winter away . The Court in all state , Now opens her gate , and bids a free welcome to mos The City likewise , Though somewhat precise , does willingly part with her cos And yet by report , From City and Court , the Country gets the day : More Liquour is spent , And better content , to drive the cold winter away . The Gentry there , For cost do not spare , the Yeomanry fast in Len The Farmers and such , Think nothing too much , if they keep but to pay their Ren The poorest of all , Do merrily call , want , bears but a little sway : For a Song or a tale , Over a Pot of good Ale , to drive the cold winter away . Thus none will allow , Of solitude now , but merrily greets the time : To make it appear , Of all the whole year , that this is accounted the Prime , December is seen , Apparel'd in green , and January fresh as May : Comes dancing along , With a Cup and a Song , to drive the cold winter away . The second part . To the same tune . THis time of the year , Is spent in good Cheer , kind neighbours together me To fit by the fire , With friendly desire , each other in love to gree Old grudges forgotten , Are put in the Pot , all sorrows aside they lay : The old and the young , Does Carol his Song , to drive the cold winter away . Sisley and Nanny , More jocund then any , as blithe as the Month of June : Do Carol and sing , Like birds of the Spring , no Nightingale sweeter in tune : To bring in content , When Summer is spent , in pleasant delight and play : With mirth and good cheer , To end the old year , and drive the cold winter away . The Shepherd , the Swain , Do highly disdain , to waste out his time in care : And Clim of the Clough , Hath plenty enough , if but a penny he spare : To spend at the night , In joy and delight ; now after his labours all day : For better then Lands , Is help of his hands , to drive the cold winter away . To Mask and to Mum , Kind neighbours will come , with Wassels of not brown Ale ; To drink and carouse , To all in this house , as merry as Bucks in the pale : Where Cake , Bred and Cheese , Is brought for your fees , to make you the longer stay : At the fire to warm , Will do you no harm , to drive the cold winter away . When Christmas tide , Comes in like a Bride , with Holly and Ivy clad : Twelve days in the year , Much mirth and good cheer , in every household is had : The Country guise , Is then to devise , some gambol of Christmas play : Whereas the young men , Do best that they can , to drive the cold winter away . When white-bearded Frost , Hath threatened his worst , and fallen from Branch & Bryer : Then time away calls , From Husbandry Hals , & from the good Countrymans fire : Together to go , To Blow and to sow , to get us both food and array : And thus with content , The time we have spent , to drive the cold winter away . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . 