Choice of Inventions , Or Several sorts of the figure of three , That are newly compos'd as here you may see , Then lend your attention you shall hear anon It goes to the tune of Rock the Cradle sweet John. THere were three men of Gotam , as I have herd men say , That needs would ride a hunting upon Saint Davids day , Though all the day they hunting were , yet no sport could they see , Until they spied and Owl as she sat in a tree : The first man said it it a Goose , the second man said nay , The third man said it was a Hawk , but his Bells were fallen away . There was and Ewe had three Lambs , and one of them was black , There was a man had three sons , Jeffery , James and Jacke , The one was hang'd , the other drown'd , The third was lost and never found , The old man he fell in a sound , come fill us a cup of Sack . There were three London Lasses did love a bonney Lad , And either of these Wenchs thought this young man to have had , These Damsels all together met , and wrought a strange device , That she should have the man that could throw most upon three-Dice , Their maidenheads must be the stake , now mark what did befall , The young man threw the greatest cast and bravely won them all . There was and Ewe , etc There were three good old women , that would not be controlled , And each of them must take her cup to keep them from the cold , The one of them a Tailors wife , the other was a Weaver , The third a merry Cobblers wife , that prayed for dirty weather : To fit and chat of this and that it was then their hearts desire , So long they stayed till two were drunk , the third fell in the fire . There was and Ewe , etc The Piper pip't his wife a dance , and there sprung up a Rose , The Cobbler drunk strong Ale so long till he had wronged his Nose : His wife came with a Broomstaffe , and struck him on the head , That every one did surely think the Cobbler had been dead , But being to his senses come , sweet wife said he be quiet , This twelve months day I'll take small Beer , or water for my diet . There was and Ewe , etc A man that hath a sluttish wife , is in a beastly taking , And he that hath a cleanly wife is of another making : He that hath a dogged wife , my fancy cannot brook , But he that hath a virtuous wife hath far more better luck : He that hath a drunken wife that spends all at the Alehouse , Were better take a Cord in hand , and hang himself at the Gallows . There was a Ewe had three Lambs , the one of them was black , There was a man had three sons , Jeffery , James and Jacke , The one was han [ ? ] 'd , the other drown'd , The third was lost and never found , The old man he fell in a sound , come fill us a cup of Sack . The second part To the same tune . THere was a Lass had three Lovers the one of them a Taylor , The second was a moneyed man , the third a Jovial Sailor , The Taylor gave his Love a Gown , in love and kind good will , The Usurer with his money bags her purse did often fill . The Sailor in the Evening came unto his hearts delight , And bravely carried the wench away , the child and all by night . There was a Ewe had three Lambs , and one of them was black , There was a man had three sons , Jeffery , James and Jacke , The one was hanged , the other drowned , The third was lost and never found , The old man he fell in a sound , come fill us a cup of Sack . There were three roaring Fiddlers came lately out of France , That light and nimbly can 'teach maidens how to dance : In Turnbull-street and Clarkenwell , Pickt-hatch and fair Bloomsberry , These fiddlers taught their scholar there to sing , dance and be merry : Yet bid all Fiddlers have a care of dancing in this kind , Lest they from Tiburne chance to fallen , and leave their Crowd behind . There was , etc A man that hath a sign at his door , and keeps good ale to fell , A comely wife to please his guests , may thrive exceeding well , But he that hath a scolding wife , his fortune is the worse , For shee'll not only brawl and chide bat pick her husbands purse , And he that hath a fool to his wife , her neighbours oft will flout her , But he that hath a Whore to his wife , were better be without her . There was , etc There were three lusty soldiers went through a town of late , The one lov'd Besse , the other Sisse , the third lov'd bouncing Kate , These maidens were three Laundresses , to wash men shirts and bans , And for their pains these soldiers gave them wages in their hands : The Gallants are to Sweathland gone all this is truth I tell ye , And lest these Lasses for to cry , woe and alas my belly . There was , etc Three Gallants in a Tavern did bravely call for Wine , But he that loves those dainty Cates is sure no friend of mine : Give me a cup of Barley broth , for this of truth is spoke , These gallants drunk so hard that each was forced to pawn his Cloak : The oil of Barley never did such injury do to none , So that they drink what may suffice , and afterwards be gone . There was a Ewe had three Lambs , and one of them was black , There was a man had three sons , Jeffery , James and Jacke , The one was hanged , the other drowned , The third was lost and never found , The old man he fell in a sound , come fill us a cup of Sack . Printed at London for F. Coals . Choice of Inventions , Or Several sorts of the figure of three , That are newly compos'd as here you may see , Then lend your attention you shall hear anon It goes to the tune of Rock the Cradle sweet John. THere were three men of Gotam , as I have herd men say , That needs would ride a hunting upon Saint Davids day , Though all the day they hunting were , yet no sport could they see , Until they spied and Owl as she sat in a tree : The first man said it it a Goose , the second man said nay , The third man said it was a Hawk , but his Bells were fallen away . There was and Ewe had three Lambs , and one of them was black , There was a man had three sons , Jeffery , James and Jacke , The one was hang'd , the other drown'd , The third was lost and never found , The old man he fell in a sound , come fill us a cup of Sack . There were three London Lasses did love a bonney Lad , And either of these Wenchs thought this young man to have had , These Damsels all together met , and wrought a strange device , That she should have the man that could throw most upon three-Dice , Their maidenheads must be the stake , now mark what did befall , The young man threw the greatest cast and bravely won them all . There was and Ewe , etc There were three good old women , that would not be controlled , And each of them must take her cup to keep them from the cold , The one of them a Tailors wife , the other was a Weaver , The third a merry Cobblers wife , that prayed for dirty weather : To fit and chat of this and that it was then their hearts desire , So long they stayed till two were drunk , the third fell in the fire . There was and Ewe , etc The Piper pip't his wife a dance , and there sprung up a Rose , The Cobbler drunk strong Ale so long till he had wronged his Nose : His wife came with a Broomstaffe , and struck him on the head , That every one did surely think the Cobbler had been dead , But being to his senses come , sweet wife said he be quiet , This twelve months day I'll take small Beer , or water for my diet . There was and Ewe , etc A man that hath a sluttish wife , is in a beastly taking , And he that hath a cleanly wife is of another making : He that hath a dogged wife , my fancy cannot brook , But he that hath a virtuous wife hath far more better luck : He that hath a drunken wife that spends all at the Alehouse , Were better take a Cord in hand , and hang himself at the Gallows . There was a Ewe had three Lambs , the one of them was black , There was a man had three sons , Jeffery , James and Jacke , The one was han [ ? ] 'd , the other drown'd , The third was lost and never found , The old man he fell in a sound , come fill us a cup of Sack . The second part To the same tune . THere was a Lass had three Lovers the one of them a Taylor , The second was a moneyed man , the third a Jovial Sailor , The Taylor gave his Love a Gown , in love and kind good will , The Usurer with his money bags her purse did often fill . The Sailor in the Evening came unto his hearts delight , And bravely carried the wench away , the child and all by night . There was a Ewe had three Lambs , and one of them was black , There was a man had three sons , Jeffery , James and Jacke , The one was hanged , the other drowned , The third was lost and never found , The old man he fell in a sound , come fill us a cup of Sack . There were three roaring Fiddlers came lately out of France , That light and nimbly can 'teach maidens how to dance : In Turnbull-street and Clarkenwell , Pickt-hatch and fair Bloomsberry , These fiddlers taught their scholar there to sing , dance and be merry : Yet bid all Fiddlers have a care of dancing in this kind , Lest they from Tiburne chance to fallen , and leave their Crowd behind . There was , etc A man that hath a sign at his door , and keeps good ale to fell , A comely wife to please his guests , may thrive exceeding well , But he that hath a scolding wife , his fortune is the worse , For shee'll not only brawl and chide bat pick her husbands purse , And he that hath a fool to his wife , her neighbours oft will flout her , But he that hath a Whore to his wife , were better be without her . There was , etc There were three lusty soldiers went through a town of late , The one lov'd Besse , the other Sisse , the third lov'd bouncing Kate , These maidens were three Laundresses , to wash men shirts and bans , And for their pains these soldiers gave them wages in their hands : The Gallants are to Sweathland gone all this is truth I tell ye , And lest these Lasses for to cry , woe and alas my belly . There was , etc Three Gallants in a Tavern did bravely call for Wine , But he that loves those dainty Cates is sure no friend of mine : Give me a cup of Barley broth , for this of truth is spoke , These gallants drunk so hard that each was forced to pawn his Cloak : The oil of Barley never did such injury do to none , So that they drink what may suffice , and afterwards be gone . There was a Ewe had three Lambs , and one of them was black , There was a man had three sons , Jeffery , James and Jacke , The one was hanged , the other drowned , The third was lost and never found , The old man he fell in a sound , come fill us a cup of Sack . Printed at London for F. Coals . 