The Householders Newyears Gift , containing a pleasant Dialogue be - betwixt the Husband and his Wife , pleasant to be regarded . To the tune of , where is my truelove . GRieve no more , sweet Husband , to grieve it is in vain , Little it availeth to grieve or else complain : Then show thy need to no man , for it does breed disdain : Now comes a good new year . H. Alack and alas for woe , how can I choose , The world is grown so cruel , that friendship few do use : Flattery gets credit , plain troth is overthrown : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. The world it is deceitful , then trust it not , my deer : But take this comfort to thee thy saddest thoughts to cheer : The Lord will never leave them , where true love does appear : And God send a merry new year . H. What comfort can I take , Wife , when sorrow is so grea Misery on all sides does us always threa When labour is too little to find us bred and mea Oh Lord send a good new year . Scarcity is planted in Village and in town , We see our neighbours children go begging up and down , Few persons do relieve them ; but all at them do frown : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. Greediness is causer , good husband , of this ill , Pride that madding monster , kind charity does kill : Lord Jesus soon amend it , according to thy will : And send us a merry new year . H. Corn in every Market so deer we daily see : we pay more for a bushel , then we were wont for three : This cuts the hearts of poor men , and this undoth me : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. Why husband , this hath caused so many at this day , To pinch their pretty bellies within their garments gay : And all they think too little , upon themselves to lay : Good Lord send a merry new year . H. Sweet wife , a thousand sorrows do yet torment my mind , To think for all my labour how I am still behind : And for the same no remedy alack , that I can find : Good Lord send a merry new year . W. Take courage , gentle Husband , and harken what I say , After freezing January comes pleasant May : There is no storm so cruel , but comes as fair a day : Good Lord send a merry new year . H. Gentle Wife , I tell thee , my very heart is done The world's great calamity , no way can I shun : For still in debt and danger , more and more I run : Good Lord send a merry new year . W. Be content , sweet Husband , and harken unto me : The Lord is still as merciful as he was wont to be . Go thou and ply thy labour , and I will work with thee : God Lord send a merry new year . I will not be idle , but I will Carded and Spin : I will save together that thou bringest in : No man for debt is hanged , then pass thou not a pin : And God send a merry new year . H. Dear Wife , thy gentle speech ; revive me at the heart , To see thee take my poverty in such a gentle par If God do ever raise me , thou shalt h [ a ] we thy desert And God send a merry new year . W. Poverty ( sweet Husband ) oft time hath been blamed : But poverty with honesty never yet was shamed : The rich man discontented , may be a poor man call'd : But God send a merry new year . What thou want'st in riches , I will supply in love , Thou shalt be my honey , and I thy Turtle Dove : Thou art my beloved , no sorrow shall remove : And God send a merry new year . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Bayly . The Householders Newyears Gift , containing a pleasant Dialogue be - betwixt the Husband and his Wife , pleasant to be regarded . To the tune of , where is my truelove . GRieve no more , sweet Husband , to grieve it is in vain , Little it availeth to grieve or else complain : Then show thy need to no man , for it does breed disdain : Now comes a good new year . H. Alack and alas for woe , how can I choose , The world is grown so cruel , that friendship few do use : Flattery gets credit , plain troth is overthrown : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. The world it is deceitful , then trust it not , my deer : But take this comfort to thee thy saddest thoughts to cheer : The Lord will never leave them , where true love does appear : And God send a merry new year . H. What comfort can I take , Wife , when sorrow is so grea Misery on all sides does us always threa When labour is too little to find us bred and mea Oh Lord send a good new year . Scarcity is planted in Village and in town , We see our neighbours children go begging up and down , Few persons do relieve them ; but all at them do frown : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. Greediness is causer , good husband , of this ill , Pride that madding monster , kind charity does kill : Lord Jesus soon amend it , according to thy will : And send us a merry new year . H. Corn in every Market so deer we daily see : we pay more for a bushel , then we were wont for three : This cuts the hearts of poor men , and this undoth me : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. Why husband , this hath caused so many at this day , To pinch their pretty bellies within their garments gay : And all they think too little , upon themselves to lay : Good Lord send a merry new year . H. Sweet wife , a thousand sorrows do yet torment my mind , To think for all my labour how I am still behind : And for the same no remedy alack , that I can find : Good Lord send a merry new year . W. Take courage , gentle Husband , and harken what I say , After freezing January comes pleasant May : There is no storm so cruel , but comes as fair a day : Good Lord send a merry new year . H. Gentle Wife , I tell thee , my very heart is done The world's great calamity , no way can I shun : For still in debt and danger , more and more I run : Good Lord send a merry new year . W. Be content , sweet Husband , and harken unto me : The Lord is still as merciful as he was wont to be . Go thou and ply thy labour , and I will work with thee : God Lord send a merry new year . I will not be idle , but I will Carded and Spin : I will save together that thou bringest in : No man for debt is hanged , then pass thou not a pin : And God send a merry new year . H. Dear Wife , thy gentle speech ; revive me at the heart , To see thee take my poverty in such a gentle par If God do ever raise me , thou shalt h [ a ] we thy desert And God send a merry new year . W. Poverty ( sweet Husband ) oft time hath been blamed : But poverty with honesty never yet was shamed : The rich man discontented , may be a poor man call'd : But God send a merry new year . What thou want'st in riches , I will supply in love , Thou shalt be my honey , and I thy Turtle Dove : Thou art my beloved , no sorrow shall remove : And God send a merry new year . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Bayly . The Householders Newyears Gift , containing a pleasant Dialogue be - betwixt the Husband and his Wife , pleasant to be regarded . To the tune of , where is my truelove . GRieve no more , sweet Husband , to grieve it is in vain , Little it availeth to grieve or else complain : Then show thy need to no man , for it does breed disdain : Now comes a good new year . H. Alack and alas for woe , how can I choose , The world is grown so cruel , that friendship few do use : Flattery gets credit , plain troth is overthrown : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. The world it is deceitful , then trust it not , my deer : But take this comfort to thee thy saddest thoughts to cheer : The Lord will never leave them , where true love does appear : And God send a merry new year . H. What comfort can I take , Wife , when sorrow is so grea Misery on all sides does us always threa When labour is too little to find us bred and mea Oh Lord send a good new year . Scarcity is planted in Village and in town , We see our neighbours children go begging up and down , Few persons do relieve them ; but all at them do frown : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. Greediness is causer , good husband , of this ill , Pride that madding monster , kind charity does kill : Lord Jesus soon amend it , according to thy will : And send us a merry new year . H. Corn in every Market so deer we daily see : we pay more for a bushel , then we were wont for three : This cuts the hearts of poor men , and this undoth me : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. Why husband , this hath caused so many at this day , To pinch their pretty bellies within their garments gay : And all they think too little , upon themselves to lay : Good Lord send a merry new year . H. Sweet wife , a thousand sorrows do yet torment my mind , To think for all my labour how I am still behind : And for the same no remedy alack , that I can find : Good Lord send a merry new year . W. Take courage , gentle Husband , and harken what I say , After freezing January comes pleasant May : There is no storm so cruel , but comes as fair a day : Good Lord send a merry new year . H. Gentle Wife , I tell thee , my very heart is done The world's great calamity , no way can I shun : For still in debt and danger , more and more I run : Good Lord send a merry new year . W. Be content , sweet Husband , and harken unto me : The Lord is still as merciful as he was wont to be . Go thou and ply thy labour , and I will work with thee : God Lord send a merry new year . I will not be idle , but I will Carded and Spin : I will save together that thou bringest in : No man for debt is hanged , then pass thou not a pin : And God send a merry new year . H. Dear Wife , thy gentle speech ; revive me at the heart , To see thee take my poverty in such a gentle par If God do ever raise me , thou shalt h [ a ] we thy desert And God send a merry new year . W. Poverty ( sweet Husband ) oft time hath been blamed : But poverty with honesty never yet was shamed : The rich man discontented , may be a poor man call'd : But God send a merry new year . What thou want'st in riches , I will supply in love , Thou shalt be my honey , and I thy Turtle Dove : Thou art my beloved , no sorrow shall remove : And God send a merry new year . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Bayly . The Householders Newyears Gift , containing a pleasant Dialogue be - betwixt the Husband and his Wife , pleasant to be regarded . To the tune of , where is my truelove . GRieve no more , sweet Husband , to grieve it is in vain , Little it availeth to grieve or else complain : Then show thy need to no man , for it does breed disdain : Now comes a good new year . H. Alack and alas for woe , how can I choose , The world is grown so cruel , that friendship few do use : Flattery gets credit , plain troth is overthrown : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. The world it is deceitful , then trust it not , my deer : But take this comfort to thee thy saddest thoughts to cheer : The Lord will never leave them , where true love does appear : And God send a merry new year . H. What comfort can I take , Wife , when sorrow is so grea Misery on all sides does us always threa When labour is too little to find us bred and mea Oh Lord send a good new year . Scarcity is planted in Village and in town , We see our neighbours children go begging up and down , Few persons do relieve them ; but all at them do frown : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. Greediness is causer , good husband , of this ill , Pride that madding monster , kind charity does kill : Lord Jesus soon amend it , according to thy will : And send us a merry new year . H. Corn in every Market so deer we daily see : we pay more for a bushel , then we were wont for three : This cuts the hearts of poor men , and this undoth me : Oh Lord send a good new year . W. Why husband , this hath caused so many at this day , To pinch their pretty bellies within their garments gay : And all they think too little , upon themselves to lay : Good Lord send a merry new year . H. Sweet wife , a thousand sorrows do yet torment my mind , To think for all my labour how I am still behind : And for the same no remedy alack , that I can find : Good Lord send a merry new year . W. Take courage , gentle Husband , and harken what I say , After freezing January comes pleasant May : There is no storm so cruel , but comes as fair a day : Good Lord send a merry new year . H. Gentle Wife , I tell thee , my very heart is done The world's great calamity , no way can I shun : For still in debt and danger , more and more I run : Good Lord send a merry new year . W. Be content , sweet Husband , and harken unto me : The Lord is still as merciful as he was wont to be . Go thou and ply thy labour , and I will work with thee : God Lord send a merry new year . I will not be idle , but I will Carded and Spin : I will save together that thou bringest in : No man for debt is hanged , then pass thou not a pin : And God send a merry new year . H. Dear Wife , thy gentle speech ; revive me at the heart , To see thee take my poverty in such a gentle par If God do ever raise me , thou shalt h [ a ] we thy desert And God send a merry new year . W. Poverty ( sweet Husband ) oft time hath been blamed : But poverty with honesty never yet was shamed : The rich man discontented , may be a poor man call'd : But God send a merry new year . What thou want'st in riches , I will supply in love , Thou shalt be my honey , and I thy Turtle Dove : Thou art my beloved , no sorrow shall remove : And God send a merry new year . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Bayly . 