A new Ballad , containing a communication between the careful Wife , and the comfortable Husb touching the common cares and charges of Household . The careful Wife . HOw shall we good husband now live this hard year , This world is so queasy and all things so deer : And so little taking of money for ware , Makes me lie waking with no little care . Then had you need Husband to look to the Fox , Whose crafty conveyance will empty your box : With fair fawning speeches some credit to crave , Or else to be surety for more then you have . Then Husband be careful and not over large , For unto Housekeeping there longeth a charge : In wiving and thriving [ , ] it is and old song , More then the bore legs to bed do belong . What you spend on me , I take for my pain , For doing such duties as you would disdain : For dressing your diet , in washing and wringing , And much pains I take man , with fair babies bringing . And what you do get , Sir , that will I save , What better good will in a Wife can you have ? Be sure of my promise for better , for worse , I will be a huswife to husband your purse . I must provide , man , for many and odd thing , That you never look to buy or to bring : To welcome your neighbours , your Nurse and your friend , To furnish a household longs many and odd end . What need , man , such odding betwixt you and me ? All shall be even , man , if we two agree : Even you my good husband , and I your good wife , Will pass this hard year , man , without any strife , And I for my part will do what I may , With Spinning and Reeling to pass time away , Providing and getting to pay for my flax : That none shall come chatting to you for such lacks . As just as you will , man , I will be content , Pay you the Brewer , and the Landlord his rend . The Butcher , the Baker , and the Collier his score , And then the Woodmonger and I ask no more , Then a good Newyeers gift , good husband give me , And a good Newyeers gift I do give thee , Thou hast a good wife , that a huswife will be , Both this year and many to be merry with thee . The comfortable Husband . WIfe , as we get little , so temper our diet , With any small morsel to live and be quiet , Though home be but homely and never so poor Yet let us keep warily the Wolf from the door , Nay there lay a straw , wife , I am not so mad , Well paid is well sold , wife , a man may be glad , With any light gain to fill up the purse , Mean state to maintain , but not make it worse , I know it is true , goodwife , that you say , He that does marry , must cast much away : For look whatsoever I spend upon you , Comes never again ( wife ) I think this is true , Look what you would have , Wife , let me know , I grutch not at any thing that you bestow . Be content and pleased , lack shall be no le I'll see your cares eased as fast as I get . But look no more m [ y ] wife , then I look without , You look in my purse , wife , too often I doubt , But when you look in , would you bring in as fast , Then though you still look'd , the longer 'twould last , Upon the odds , wife , I perceive still you go , With the odds I have got a very odd shrow : The odds may sometime , wife , make a fair lay , And the odds may hazard to make all away . A merry new life , makes a merry beginning , Let go , this is past , wife , be it losing or winning , I will play the good husband the best that I can , To live with good credit and pay every man , Then shall we lack nothing , wife I do believe , Nor no man shall take you or me by the sleeve , For scoring , or tallying , or taking on trust , But clear quittance making is joyful and just . That I shall do , wife , with a very good will , To pay that I owe my meaning is still : And shall have to pay , I hope while I live , What old year affords not , the new year will give , God grant it be true all this that you say , To his only glory , to whom let us pray , That we in his fear may seem to amend Our former sins passed unto our lives end . A new Ballad , containing a communication between the careful Wife , and the comfortable Husb touching the common cares and charges of Household . The careful Wife . HOw shall we good husband now live this hard year , This world is so queasy and all things so deer : And so little taking of money for ware , Makes me lie waking with no little care . Then had you need Husband to look to the Fox , Whose crafty conveyance will empty your box : With fair fawning speeches some credit to crave , Or else to be surety for more then you have . Then Husband be careful and not over large , For unto Housekeeping there longeth a charge : In wiving and thriving [ , ] it is and old song , More then the bore legs to bed do belong . What you spend on me , I take for my pain , For doing such duties as you would disdain : For dressing your diet , in washing and wringing , And much pains I take man , with fair babies bringing . And what you do get , Sir , that will I save , What better good will in a Wife can you have ? Be sure of my promise for better , for worse , I will be a huswife to husband your purse . I must provide , man , for many and odd thing , That you never look to buy or to bring : To welcome your neighbours , your Nurse and your friend , To furnish a household longs many and odd end . What need , man , such odding betwixt you and me ? All shall be even , man , if we two agree : Even you my good husband , and I your good wife , Will pass this hard year , man , without any strife , And I for my part will do what I may , With Spinning and Reeling to pass time away , Providing and getting to pay for my flax : That none shall come chatting to you for such lacks . As just as you will , man , I will be content , Pay you the Brewer , and the Landlord his rend . The Butcher , the Baker , and the Collier his score , And then the Woodmonger and I ask no more , Then a good Newyeers gift , good husband give me , And a good Newyeers gift I do give thee , Thou hast a good wife , that a huswife will be , Both this year and many to be merry with thee . The comfortable Husband . WIfe , as we get little , so temper our diet , With any small morsel to live and be quiet , Though home be but homely and never so poor Yet let us keep warily the Wolf from the door , Nay there lay a straw , wife , I am not so mad , Well paid is well sold , wife , a man may be glad , With any light gain to fill up the purse , Mean state to maintain , but not make it worse , I know it is true , goodwife , that you say , He that does marry , must cast much away : For look whatsoever I spend upon you , Comes never again ( wife ) I think this is true , Look what you would have , Wife , let me know , I grutch not at any thing that you bestow . Be content and pleased , lack shall be no le I'll see your cares eased as fast as I get . But look no more m [ y ] wife , then I look without , You look in my purse , wife , too often I doubt , But when you look in , would you bring in as fast , Then though you still look'd , the longer 'twould last , Upon the odds , wife , I perceive still you go , With the odds I have got a very odd shrow : The odds may sometime , wife , make a fair lay , And the odds may hazard to make all away . A merry new life , makes a merry beginning , Let go , this is past , wife , be it losing or winning , I will play the good husband the best that I can , To live with good credit and pay every man , Then shall we lack nothing , wife I do believe , Nor no man shall take you or me by the sleeve , For scoring , or tallying , or taking on trust , But clear quittance making is joyful and just . That I shall do , wife , with a very good will , To pay that I owe my meaning is still : And shall have to pay , I hope while I live , What old year affords not , the new year will give , God grant it be true all this that you say , To his only glory , to whom let us pray , That we in his fear may seem to amend Our former sins passed unto our lives end . 