Cuckolds Haven : OR , The marry'd men misery , who must abide The penalty of being Hornify'd : He unto his Neighbours does make his case known , And tells them all plainly , The case is their own . To the tune of , The Spanish Gipsie . COme Neighbours follow me , that Cuckollized be , That all the Town my see our slavish misery : Let every man who keeps a Bride take heed he be not hornify'd . Though narrowly I do watch , and use Lock , Bolt , and Latch , My wife will me o'rematch , my forehead I may scratch : For though I wait both time and tide , I oftentimes am hornify'd . For now the time's so grown , men cannot keep their own , But every slave unknown will reap what we have sown : Yea , though we keep them by our side , we now and then are hornify'd . They have so many ways , by nights or else by days , That though our wealth decays , yet they our horns will raise : And many of them take a pride to keep their Husbands hornify'd . O what a case is this , Oh what a grief it is , My wife hath learn'd to kiss , and thinks 'tis not amiss : She oftentimes does me deride , and tells me I am hornify'd . What ever I do say , she will have her own way , She scorneth to obey ; Shee'll take time while she may : And if I beat her back and side , In spite I shall be hornify'd . Nay you would little think , how they will friendly link , And how they'l fit and drink , till they begin to wink : And then if Vulcan will but ride , Some Cuckold shall be hornify'd . A woman that will be drunk , will eas'ly play the Punk ; For when her wits are sunk , all keys will fit her Trunk : Then by experience oft is tried , poor men that way are hornify'd . Thus honest men must bear , and 'tis in vain to fear , For we are ne're the near our hearts with grief to tear : For while we mourn it is their pride , the more to keep us hornify'd . And be we great or small , we must be at their call ; How e're the Cards do fallen , we men must suffer all : Do what we can we must abide the pain of being hornify'd . The second Part , To the same Tune . IF they once bid us go . we dare not twice say no , Although too well we know 'Tis to our grief and woe : Nay we are glad their faults to hide , though often we are hornify'd . If I my wife provoke , with words in anger spoke , She swears shee'll make all smoke , and I must be her Cloak : Her baseness and my wrongs I hide , and patiently am hornify'd . When these good Gossips meet , In Alley , Lane , or Street , Poor men we do not see't , with Wine and Sugar sweet , They arm themselves , and then beside their husbands must be hornify'd . Not your Italian Locks , which seems a Paradox , Can keep these Hens from Cocks , till they are paid with a P - So long as they can go or ride , They'l have their husbands hornify'd . The more you have intent , the business to prevent , The more her mind is bent your will so circumven Such [ secret ] means they can provide to get their husbands hornify'd . For if we them do blame , or tell them of their shame ; Although the men we name , with whom they did the same : They'l swear who ever spoke it ly'd , Thus still poor men are hornify'd . All you that single be , avoid this slavery , Much danger is you see in women's company : For he who to a Wife is ty'd , May look still to be hornify'd . Yet must I needs confess , ( though many do transgress ) A number , numberless , which virtue do possess , And to their Husbands are a guide : by such no man is hornify'd . They who are of that raze , this Ditie in any case Is not to their disgrace , they are not for this place : To such this only is apply'd , by whom good men are hornify'd . FINIS . Printed at London by M.P. for Francis Grove , near the Sa - razens head without Newgate . Cuckolds Haven : OR , The marry'd men misery , who must abide The penalty of being Hornify'd : He unto his Neighbours does make his case known , And tells them all plainly , The case is their own . To the tune of , The Spanish Gipsie . COme Neighbours follow me , that Cuckollized be , That all the Town my see our slavish misery : Let every man who keeps a Bride take heed he be not hornify'd . Though narrowly I do watch , and use Lock , Bolt , and Latch , My wife will me o'rematch , my forehead I may scratch : For though I wait both time and tide , I oftentimes am hornify'd . For now the time's so grown , men cannot keep their own , But every slave unknown will reap what we have sown : Yea , though we keep them by our side , we now and then are hornify'd . They have so many ways , by nights or else by days , That though our wealth decays , yet they our horns will raise : And many of them take a pride to keep their Husbands hornify'd . O what a case is this , Oh what a grief it is , My wife hath learn'd to kiss , and thinks 'tis not amiss : She oftentimes does me deride , and tells me I am hornify'd . What ever I do say , she will have her own way , She scorneth to obey ; Shee'll take time while she may : And if I beat her back and side , In spite I shall be hornify'd . Nay you would little think , how they will friendly link , And how they'l fit and drink , till they begin to wink : And then if Vulcan will but ride , Some Cuckold shall be hornify'd . A woman that will be drunk , will eas'ly play the Punk ; For when her wits are sunk , all keys will fit her Trunk : Then by experience oft is tried , poor men that way are hornify'd . Thus honest men must bear , and 'tis in vain to fear , For we are ne're the near our hearts with grief to tear : For while we mourn it is their pride , the more to keep us hornify'd . And be we great or small , we must be at their call ; How e're the Cards do fallen , we men must suffer all : Do what we can we must abide the pain of being hornify'd . The second Part , To the same Tune . IF they once bid us go . we dare not twice say no , Although too well we know 'Tis to our grief and woe : Nay we are glad their faults to hide , though often we are hornify'd . If I my wife provoke , with words in anger spoke , She swears shee'll make all smoke , and I must be her Cloak : Her baseness and my wrongs I hide , and patiently am hornify'd . When these good Gossips meet , In Alley , Lane , or Street , Poor men we do not see't , with Wine and Sugar sweet , They arm themselves , and then beside their husbands must be hornify'd . Not your Italian Locks , which seems a Paradox , Can keep these Hens from Cocks , till they are paid with a P - So long as they can go or ride , They'l have their husbands hornify'd . The more you have intent , the business to prevent , The more her mind is bent your will so circumven Such [ secret ] means they can provide to get their husbands hornify'd . For if we them do blame , or tell them of their shame ; Although the men we name , with whom they did the same : They'l swear who ever spoke it ly'd , Thus still poor men are hornify'd . All you that single be , avoid this slavery , Much danger is you see in women's company : For he who to a Wife is ty'd , May look still to be hornify'd . Yet must I needs confess , ( though many do transgress ) A number , numberless , which virtue do possess , And to their Husbands are a guide : by such no man is hornify'd . They who are of that raze , this Ditie in any case Is not to their disgrace , they are not for this place : To such this only is apply'd , by whom good men are hornify'd . FINIS . Printed at London by M.P. for Francis Grove , near the Sa - razens head without Newgate . Cuckolds Haven : OR , The marry'd men misery , who must abide The penalty of being Hornify'd : He unto his Neighbours does make his case known , And tells them all plainly , The case is their own . To the tune of , The Spanish Gipsie . COme Neighbours follow me , that Cuckollized be , That all the Town my see our slavish misery : Let every man who keeps a Bride take heed he be not hornify'd . Though narrowly I do watch , and use Lock , Bolt , and Latch , My wife will me o'rematch , my forehead I may scratch : For though I wait both time and tide , I oftentimes am hornify'd . For now the time's so grown , men cannot keep their own , But every slave unknown will reap what we have sown : Yea , though we keep them by our side , we now and then are hornify'd . They have so many ways , by nights or else by days , That though our wealth decays , yet they our horns will raise : And many of them take a pride to keep their Husbands hornify'd . O what a case is this , Oh what a grief it is , My wife hath learn'd to kiss , and thinks 'tis not amiss : She oftentimes does me deride , and tells me I am hornify'd . What ever I do say , she will have her own way , She scorneth to obey ; Shee'll take time while she may : And if I beat her back and side , In spite I shall be hornify'd . Nay you would little think , how they will friendly link , And how they'l fit and drink , till they begin to wink : And then if Vulcan will but ride , Some Cuckold shall be hornify'd . A woman that will be drunk , will eas'ly play the Punk ; For when her wits are sunk , all keys will fit her Trunk : Then by experience oft is tried , poor men that way are hornify'd . Thus honest men must bear , and 'tis in vain to fear , For we are ne're the near our hearts with grief to tear : For while we mourn it is their pride , the more to keep us hornify'd . And be we great or small , we must be at their call ; How e're the Cards do fallen , we men must suffer all : Do what we can we must abide the pain of being hornify'd . The second Part , To the same Tune . IF they once bid us go . we dare not twice say no , Although too well we know 'Tis to our grief and woe : Nay we are glad their faults to hide , though often we are hornify'd . If I my wife provoke , with words in anger spoke , She swears shee'll make all smoke , and I must be her Cloak : Her baseness and my wrongs I hide , and patiently am hornify'd . When these good Gossips meet , In Alley , Lane , or Street , Poor men we do not see't , with Wine and Sugar sweet , They arm themselves , and then beside their husbands must be hornify'd . Not your Italian Locks , which seems a Paradox , Can keep these Hens from Cocks , till they are paid with a P - So long as they can go or ride , They'l have their husbands hornify'd . The more you have intent , the business to prevent , The more her mind is bent your will so circumven Such [ secret ] means they can provide to get their husbands hornify'd . For if we them do blame , or tell them of their shame ; Although the men we name , with whom they did the same : They'l swear who ever spoke it ly'd , Thus still poor men are hornify'd . All you that single be , avoid this slavery , Much danger is you see in women's company : For he who to a Wife is ty'd , May look still to be hornify'd . Yet must I needs confess , ( though many do transgress ) A number , numberless , which virtue do possess , And to their Husbands are a guide : by such no man is hornify'd . They who are of that raze , this Ditie in any case Is not to their disgrace , they are not for this place : To such this only is apply'd , by whom good men are hornify'd . FINIS . Printed at London by M.P. for Francis Grove , near the Sa - razens head without Newgate . Cuckolds Haven : OR , The marry'd men misery , who must abide The penalty of being Hornify'd : He unto his Neighbours does make his case known , And tells them all plainly , The case is their own . To the tune of , The Spanish Gipsie . COme Neighbours follow me , that Cuckollized be , That all the Town my see our slavish misery : Let every man who keeps a Bride take heed he be not hornify'd . Though narrowly I do watch , and use Lock , Bolt , and Latch , My wife will me o'rematch , my forehead I may scratch : For though I wait both time and tide , I oftentimes am hornify'd . For now the time's so grown , men cannot keep their own , But every slave unknown will reap what we have sown : Yea , though we keep them by our side , we now and then are hornify'd . They have so many ways , by nights or else by days , That though our wealth decays , yet they our horns will raise : And many of them take a pride to keep their Husbands hornify'd . O what a case is this , Oh what a grief it is , My wife hath learn'd to kiss , and thinks 'tis not amiss : She oftentimes does me deride , and tells me I am hornify'd . What ever I do say , she will have her own way , She scorneth to obey ; Shee'll take time while she may : And if I beat her back and side , In spite I shall be hornify'd . Nay you would little think , how they will friendly link , And how they'l fit and drink , till they begin to wink : And then if Vulcan will but ride , Some Cuckold shall be hornify'd . A woman that will be drunk , will eas'ly play the Punk ; For when her wits are sunk , all keys will fit her Trunk : Then by experience oft is tried , poor men that way are hornify'd . Thus honest men must bear , and 'tis in vain to fear , For we are ne're the near our hearts with grief to tear : For while we mourn it is their pride , the more to keep us hornify'd . And be we great or small , we must be at their call ; How e're the Cards do fallen , we men must suffer all : Do what we can we must abide the pain of being hornify'd . The second Part , To the same Tune . IF they once bid us go . we dare not twice say no , Although too well we know 'Tis to our grief and woe : Nay we are glad their faults to hide , though often we are hornify'd . If I my wife provoke , with words in anger spoke , She swears shee'll make all smoke , and I must be her Cloak : Her baseness and my wrongs I hide , and patiently am hornify'd . When these good Gossips meet , In Alley , Lane , or Street , Poor men we do not see't , with Wine and Sugar sweet , They arm themselves , and then beside their husbands must be hornify'd . Not your Italian Locks , which seems a Paradox , Can keep these Hens from Cocks , till they are paid with a P - So long as they can go or ride , They'l have their husbands hornify'd . The more you have intent , the business to prevent , The more her mind is bent your will so circumven Such [ secret ] means they can provide to get their husbands hornify'd . For if we them do blame , or tell them of their shame ; Although the men we name , with whom they did the same : They'l swear who ever spoke it ly'd , Thus still poor men are hornify'd . All you that single be , avoid this slavery , Much danger is you see in women's company : For he who to a Wife is ty'd , May look still to be hornify'd . Yet must I needs confess , ( though many do transgress ) A number , numberless , which virtue do possess , And to their Husbands are a guide : by such no man is hornify'd . They who are of that raze , this Ditie in any case Is not to their disgrace , they are not for this place : To such this only is apply'd , by whom good men are hornify'd . FINIS . Printed at London by M.P. for Francis Grove , near the Sa - razens head without Newgate . 