And excellent Ballad Entitled , The Constancy of Susanna . To and excellent new tune . THere dwelled a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame : He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna she was call'd by name , A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should we not of her learn thus to live godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story we have read , was well brought up in Moses Law . Her parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should we not then sing and talk of this Lady . That year two Judges there was made which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade , who was Susannaes husband then , Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came for this Lady . Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly her self did daily there solace , And that these Elders soon espy'd , Lady , Lady , And privily themselves did hide for that Lady . Her chaste and constant life was tried , by these two Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to have this Lady all alone , In his Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady . Where she alone her self did wash her fair body . These Elders came to her anon , & thus they said , fair dame God speed , Thy doors are fast , thy Maids are gone , consent to us , and do this deed : For we are men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady . If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , we will say that we with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid the thing ? Therefore consent and to us turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case ? shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do it not , Lady , Lady , It is my death right well I wot , Oh true Lady . Better it were for me to fallen into your hands this day guiltless , Then that I should consent at all , to this your shameful wickedness , And even with that ( whereas she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud pitifully . These Elders both likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cry'd , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness , they sought to hide Unto her friends they then her brought Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life they sought of that Lady . The second part . To the same tune . ON the morrow she was brought forth before the people there to stand , That they might hear & know the truth how these two Elders Susanna found , The Elders swore and thus did say , Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with that Lady . Judgement there was , for no offence , Susanna causeless then must die , These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believ'd then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susannaes friends that stood her by , they did lament , and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him did cry . The Lord her voice herd and beheld , the Daughters cry of Israel , His spirit he raised in a child , whose name was call'd young Daniel , Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady . Are you such fools quoth Daniel then ? in judgement you have not done well , Nor yet the right way have you gone , to judge a daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn again for that Lady . And when to judgement they were set , he called for those wicked men : And soon he did them separate , butting the one from the other , then , He asked the first where he did see that fair Lady , He said under a Mulberry tree , who lied falsely . Thou liest said Daniel , on thy head , thy sentence is before the Lord , He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that boar record , To see how they two did agree for this Lady , He said under a Pomgrannat tree , who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the messenger of the Lord Stands waiting for you at the door , even to cut thee with a sword . And even with that the multitude ; aloud did cry , Give thanks to God , so to conclude for this Lady . They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They did as with their neighbour then , by Moses law were put to death , The innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright , near Pie-corner . And excellent Ballad Entitled , The Constancy of Susanna . To and excellent new tune . THere dwelled a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame : He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna she was call'd by name , A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should we not of her learn thus to live godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story we have read , was well brought up in Moses Law . Her parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should we not then sing and talk of this Lady . That year two Judges there was made which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade , who was Susannaes husband then , Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came for this Lady . Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly her self did daily there solace , And that these Elders soon espy'd , Lady , Lady , And privily themselves did hide for that Lady . Her chaste and constant life was tried , by these two Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to have this Lady all alone , In his Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady . Where she alone her self did wash her fair body . These Elders came to her anon , & thus they said , fair dame God speed , Thy doors are fast , thy Maids are gone , consent to us , and do this deed : For we are men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady . If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , we will say that we with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid the thing ? Therefore consent and to us turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case ? shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do it not , Lady , Lady , It is my death right well I wot , Oh true Lady . Better it were for me to fallen into your hands this day guiltless , Then that I should consent at all , to this your shameful wickedness , And even with that ( whereas she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud pitifully . These Elders both likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cry'd , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness , they sought to hide Unto her friends they then her brought Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life they sought of that Lady . The second part . To the same tune . ON the morrow she was brought forth before the people there to stand , That they might hear & know the truth how these two Elders Susanna found , The Elders swore and thus did say , Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with that Lady . Judgement there was , for no offence , Susanna causeless then must die , These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believ'd then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susannaes friends that stood her by , they did lament , and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him did cry . The Lord her voice herd and beheld , the Daughters cry of Israel , His spirit he raised in a child , whose name was call'd young Daniel , Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady . Are you such fools quoth Daniel then ? in judgement you have not done well , Nor yet the right way have you gone , to judge a daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn again for that Lady . And when to judgement they were set , he called for those wicked men : And soon he did them separate , butting the one from the other , then , He asked the first where he did see that fair Lady , He said under a Mulberry tree , who lied falsely . Thou liest said Daniel , on thy head , thy sentence is before the Lord , He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that boar record , To see how they two did agree for this Lady , He said under a Pomgrannat tree , who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the messenger of the Lord Stands waiting for you at the door , even to cut thee with a sword . And even with that the multitude ; aloud did cry , Give thanks to God , so to conclude for this Lady . They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They did as with their neighbour then , by Moses law were put to death , The innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright , near Pie-corner . 