Clods Carroll : or , A proper new Jig , to be sung Dialogue wise , of a man and a woman that would needs be married . To a pleasant new Tune . Man. NOw in the Garden are we well met , To crave our promise , for promise is a debt . Woman Come fit thee down all by my side , and when that thou art set , say what thou will unto me . M. Show me unfeignedly , and tell me thy mind , For one may have a young wench that is not overkind . W. Seek all the world for such a one , then hardly shall you find a Love of such perfection . M. This single life is wearisome , feign would I marry : But fear of ill choosing makes me to tarry : Some says that flesh is flexible , and quickly it will vary . W. It's very true , God mend them . M. Why speak'st thou ill of women , sith thou thy self art one ? W. Would all the rest were constant save I my self alone . M. Faith , good or bad , or howsoe're , I cannot live alone , but needs I must be married . W. To marry with a young wench , shee'l make thee poor with pride : To marry with one of middle age , perhaps she hath been try'd : To marry with and old one , to freeze by fire side ; both old and young are faulty . M. I'll marry with a young wench , of beauty and of wit . W. It is better tame a young Colt , without a curbing bit . M. But she will throw her rider down . W. I true , he cannot fit . when Fillies fallen a wighing . M. I'll marry one of middle age , for she will love me well . W. But if her middle much be us'd , by heaven and by hell ; Thou shalt find more griefs than thousand tongues can tell : Ah , silly man , God help thee . M. I'll marry with and old wench , that knows not good from bad . W. But once within a fortnight shee'l make her husband mad . M. Beshrew thee for thy counsel , for thou hast made me sad : but needs I must be married . W. To marry with a young wench , me thinks it were a bliss : To marry one of middle age , it were not much amiss . I'de marry one of old age , and match where money is ; there's none are bad in choosing . M. Then thou for all thy saying , commendest the single life . W. I , freedom is a popish banishment of strife . M. Hold thy tongue found woman , for I must have a wife . W. A Cuckold in reversion . When you are once married all one whole year , Tell me of your fortune , and meet with me here : To think upon my counsel thou wilt shed many a tear ; till which time I will leave thee . M. Were I but assured , and of a Beggars lot , Still to live in misery , and never worth a groat , To have my head well furnished as any horned Goat ; for all this would I marry . Farewell you lusty Bachelors , to marriage I am ben When I have try'd what marriage is , I'll tell you the event ; And tell the cause , if cause there be , wherein I do repent , that ever I did marry . FINIS . The second part , To the same tune . W Good-morrow to this new married man , how dost thou fare ? M. As one quite marr'd with marriage , consum'd and kill'd with care : Would I had taken thy counsel . W. But thou wouldst not beware . M. Alas , it was my fortune . W. What grief does most oppress thee ? may I request to know ? M. That I have god a wanton . W. But is she not a shrow ? M. Shee's any thing that evil is , but I must not say so . W. For fear that I should flout thee . M. Indeed to mock at misery , would add unto my grief . W. But I will not torment thee , but rather lend relief : And therefore in thy marriage , tell me what woes are chief ; good counsel yet may cure thee . W. Is not thy huswife testy , too churlish and too sour ? M. The devil is not so waspish , shee's never pleas'd and hour . W. Canst thou not tame a devil ? lies it not in thy power ? M. Alas I cannot conjure . W. What , goes she not a gossiping , to spend away thy store ? M. Do what I can , I promise you , shee's ever out of door ; That were I never so thrifty , yet she would make me poor : woes me I cannot mend it . W. How goes she in apparel ? delights she not in pride ? M. No more than Birds do bushes , or hearts the river side . Witness to that , her lookingglass , where she hath stood in pride a whole forenoon together . W. How thinkest thou ? was she honest , and loyal to thy bed ? M. I think her legs do fallen away , for spring time keeping head . And were not horns invisible , I warrant you I were sped with broad browed Panthers . W. Thy grief is past recovery , no salve will help but this : To take thy fortune patiently , and brook her wh [ a ] tO she is . Yet many things amended are , that have been long amiss , and so in time may she be . M. I cannot stay here longer , my wife or this does stay : And he thats bound as I am bound , perforce must needs obey . W. Then farewell to thee new married man , since you will needs away ; I can but grieve thy fortune . M. All you that be at liberty , and would be void of strife : I speak it on experience , ne're venture on a wife . For if you match , you will be matched to such a weary life , that you will all repent you . FINIS . London , Printed by A.M. for Henry Gosson . Clods Carroll : or , A proper new Jig , to be sung Dialogue wise , of a man and a woman that would needs be married . To a pleasant new Tune . Man. NOw in the Garden are we well met , To crave our promise , for promise is a debt . Woman Come fit thee down all by my side , and when that thou art set , say what thou will unto me . M. Show me unfeignedly , and tell me thy mind , For one may have a young wench that is not overkind . W. Seek all the world for such a one , then hardly shall you find a Love of such perfection . M. This single life is wearisome , feign would I marry : But fear of ill choosing makes me to tarry : Some says that flesh is flexible , and quickly it will vary . W. It's very true , God mend them . M. Why speak'st thou ill of women , sith thou thy self art one ? W. Would all the rest were constant save I my self alone . M. Faith , good or bad , or howsoe're , I cannot live alone , but needs I must be married . W. To marry with a young wench , shee'l make thee poor with pride : To marry with one of middle age , perhaps she hath been try'd : To marry with and old one , to freeze by fire side ; both old and young are faulty . M. I'll marry with a young wench , of beauty and of wit . W. It is better tame a young Colt , without a curbing bit . M. But she will throw her rider down . W. I true , he cannot fit . when Fillies fallen a wighing . M. I'll marry one of middle age , for she will love me well . W. But if her middle much be us'd , by heaven and by hell ; Thou shalt find more griefs than thousand tongues can tell : Ah , silly man , God help thee . M. I'll marry with and old wench , that knows not good from bad . W. But once within a fortnight shee'l make her husband mad . M. Beshrew thee for thy counsel , for thou hast made me sad : but needs I must be married . W. To marry with a young wench , me thinks it were a bliss : To marry one of middle age , it were not much amiss . I'de marry one of old age , and match where money is ; there's none are bad in choosing . M. Then thou for all thy saying , commendest the single life . W. I , freedom is a popish banishment of strife . M. Hold thy tongue found woman , for I must have a wife . W. A Cuckold in reversion . When you are once married all one whole year , Tell me of your fortune , and meet with me here : To think upon my counsel thou wilt shed many a tear ; till which time I will leave thee . M. Were I but assured , and of a Beggars lot , Still to live in misery , and never worth a groat , To have my head well furnished as any horned Goat ; for all this would I marry . Farewell you lusty Bachelors , to marriage I am ben When I have try'd what marriage is , I'll tell you the event ; And tell the cause , if cause there be , wherein I do repent , that ever I did marry . FINIS . The second part , To the same tune . W Good-morrow to this new married man , how dost thou fare ? M. As one quite marr'd with marriage , consum'd and kill'd with care : Would I had taken thy counsel . W. But thou wouldst not beware . M. Alas , it was my fortune . W. What grief does most oppress thee ? may I request to know ? M. That I have god a wanton . W. But is she not a shrow ? M. Shee's any thing that evil is , but I must not say so . W. For fear that I should flout thee . M. Indeed to mock at misery , would add unto my grief . W. But I will not torment thee , but rather lend relief : And therefore in thy marriage , tell me what woes are chief ; good counsel yet may cure thee . W. Is not thy huswife testy , too churlish and too sour ? M. The devil is not so waspish , shee's never pleas'd and hour . W. Canst thou not tame a devil ? lies it not in thy power ? M. Alas I cannot conjure . W. What , goes she not a gossiping , to spend away thy store ? M. Do what I can , I promise you , shee's ever out of door ; That were I never so thrifty , yet she would make me poor : woes me I cannot mend it . W. How goes she in apparel ? delights she not in pride ? M. No more than Birds do bushes , or hearts the river side . Witness to that , her lookingglass , where she hath stood in pride a whole forenoon together . W. How thinkest thou ? was she honest , and loyal to thy bed ? M. I think her legs do fallen away , for spring time keeping head . And were not horns invisible , I warrant you I were sped with broad browed Panthers . W. Thy grief is past recovery , no salve will help but this : To take thy fortune patiently , and brook her wh [ a ] tO she is . Yet many things amended are , that have been long amiss , and so in time may she be . M. I cannot stay here longer , my wife or this does stay : And he thats bound as I am bound , perforce must needs obey . W. Then farewell to thee new married man , since you will needs away ; I can but grieve thy fortune . M. All you that be at liberty , and would be void of strife : I speak it on experience , ne're venture on a wife . For if you match , you will be matched to such a weary life , that you will all repent you . FINIS . London , Printed by A.M. for Henry Gosson . 