The Constancy of True Love , OR , . And Excellent Relation of the Untimely Death of Two Faithful Lovers . To the tune of Downe by a Forest IN that fair fragrant month of May , When earth her curtains does display , I did by chance my corpse repose Upon a bank , which Woods did close , With green and leavy bowers about ; A place to shun the tedious rout Of Tibs and Toms , for this intent , This flowery seat I did frequent . Nature had strove to show her feat In the composure of this seat ; For in a Valley plain was found , This place by hills encircled round . Both lofty Beech and Cedars tall Did shelter this rich Sylvan hall . Here Satires and the Naiades , Here Silvans and the Driades , Here rural gods and tripping Nymphs , Did both their corpse in the pure lymphs , And crystal streams which made a noise In compassing this place of joys . No fairer place nor Fountain found Dian' with golden tresses crown'd , And Lad [ y - ] guarded in this seat , the wihstling wind cool'd summer's heat Here the nine Muses used to dance , Here the kind graces used to prance ; Here Phaebe his warbling harp did tune , The lifesome months of May & June . Here Philomel tun'd melody , Hither the chirping birds did fly , Here Thrush & blackbird from their throats strain'd diverse sundry pleasant notes . Here the Nymph Echo in hollow ground Did the last syllable resound ; What harbour could the world spare more trim , more neat , more sweet more rare ? Here as I sat musing alone , Me thought I herd one grieve and groan , Ah me poor wretch , this creature said , Whereat my senses grew afraid . I started looking here and there , To view the subject of this fear : A Lady object to mine eyes , I found the effect of all these cries ; I hasted to inquire the cause Which did her weeping eyes amaze : Behold , quoth she , my Love ( alas ) Whose crimson blood here dies the grass . The sweetest creature here lies dead , That famous Europe ever bred ; I have my wronged Lover slain , His death shall be the death of twaine . I prayed her then for to relate , The cause of his untimely fate ; She then scarce fetching of her breath , Begins the Story of his death . Blind Cupid ( quoth she ) with his dart , In tender years did wound his heart , Made subject to the love of me , And actor of this tragedy . His heart and mind together tried , His love and mine together ti'ed , Our parents sought to cross our will , But we continued constant still . Though time the disadvantage gave , And we not place for love could have , Yet still we sought to recompense , Love with true love without offence . We dwelled in neighbouring houses nigh , And getting conference thereby ; We did appoint under this tree To meet but disappointed be . The second part , To the same tune . WHen bright Aurora peeped out , And Phaebus newly look'd about , I first ( according to my vow ) made haste unto this plighted bough : Here as I stayed for my Love , Whose coming overlate did prove , A Lion with with inhumane paws , Came to that well to cool his jaws . His mouth was all with blood besmear'd , This instrument of Death I fear'd , I fled to hide my self for fear , And left behind my mantle there . The Lion having sl [ a ] k'd his thirst , Ran where I left my garment first , But when he saw no place for prey , He foul'd with blood my Livery : And having musied thus the same , Thither he went whence first he came : But I knew not that he was gone , And therefore stayed I hid alone . In the mean time ( O grief ) came he , Who promis'd had to meet with me , And under this our plighted bough , He sought performance of our vow . He found not me , but found my Coat , All bloodied by the Lyons throat , Which when he saw with blood belayed , My absence made him soar afraid : What should he think , but that some beast , Upon my carcase made his Feas He thought that the grim Lyons whelp , Devoured me being void of help . While he these events thus did brook , The instrument of death he took , A naked sword , which by his side , Ready for Combats he had tied : I have , quoth he , wrought my Loves death , The end of her shall end my breath , And thereupon thrust to the hilt His sword , and thus his blood he spilled . That the first Passenger might know , The dismal events of this woe , He wrote and pinn'd a note thereof , Upon his Hat to show the proof : Which I being void of fear at last , And thinking all the danger past , Returning from that hideous bed , Whereto I from the Lion fled , I found this Copy of his death , And his dead carcase void of breath : No sobs , no sighs , no griefs , no groans , No trickling tears , no mournful moans , No ejaculations , no cries , No doleful Ditty , or Elegies , Shall serve for to bewail his end , Which for my love his life did spend . In life his love did me pursue , But by his death he prov'd it true : If he then for my sake did die , As much for him wh [ y ] should not I ? Since death hath us denied our right , Then friendly death shall us unite , And I will follow him in haste , Who thought he followed me being past . These words assoon as she had spoke , She gave her self a deadly stroke : She drew the sword out of his breast , And in her own the same she thrust . And as in life their hearts were one , So are their lives together gone , In spite of parents , time or place , Found love will run his wished raze . Thus have you herd a Tragedy Acted by lovers constancy , God send such lovers better speed , Where fervency true Love does breed . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Francis Coules and are to be should at his shop in the Old-Bayley . The Constancy of True Love , OR , . And Excellent Relation of the Untimely Death of Two Faithful Lovers . To the tune of Downe by a Forest IN that fair fragrant month of May , When earth her curtains does display , I did by chance my corpse repose Upon a bank , which Woods did close , With green and leavy bowers about ; A place to shun the tedious rout Of Tibs and Toms , for this intent , This flowery seat I did frequent . Nature had strove to show her feat In the composure of this seat ; For in a Valley plain was found , This place by hills encircled round . Both lofty Beech and Cedars tall Did shelter this rich Sylvan hall . Here Satires and the Naiades , Here Silvans and the Driades , Here rural gods and tripping Nymphs , Did both their corpse in the pure lymphs , And crystal streams which made a noise In compassing this place of joys . No fairer place nor Fountain found Dian' with golden tresses crown'd , And Lad [ y - ] guarded in this seat , the wihstling wind cool'd summer's heat Here the nine Muses used to dance , Here the kind graces used to prance ; Here Phaebe his warbling harp did tune , The lifesome months of May & June . Here Philomel tun'd melody , Hither the chirping birds did fly , Here Thrush & blackbird from their throats strain'd diverse sundry pleasant notes . Here the Nymph Echo in hollow ground Did the last syllable resound ; What harbour could the world spare more trim , more neat , more sweet more rare ? Here as I sat musing alone , Me thought I herd one grieve and groan , Ah me poor wretch , this creature said , Whereat my senses grew afraid . I started looking here and there , To view the subject of this fear : A Lady object to mine eyes , I found the effect of all these cries ; I hasted to inquire the cause Which did her weeping eyes amaze : Behold , quoth she , my Love ( alas ) Whose crimson blood here dies the grass . The sweetest creature here lies dead , That famous Europe ever bred ; I have my wronged Lover slain , His death shall be the death of twaine . I prayed her then for to relate , The cause of his untimely fate ; She then scarce fetching of her breath , Begins the Story of his death . Blind Cupid ( quoth she ) with his dart , In tender years did wound his heart , Made subject to the love of me , And actor of this tragedy . His heart and mind together tried , His love and mine together ti'ed , Our parents sought to cross our will , But we continued constant still . Though time the disadvantage gave , And we not place for love could have , Yet still we sought to recompense , Love with true love without offence . We dwelled in neighbouring houses nigh , And getting conference thereby ; We did appoint under this tree To meet but disappointed be . The second part , To the same tune . WHen bright Aurora peeped out , And Phaebus newly look'd about , I first ( according to my vow ) made haste unto this plighted bough : Here as I stayed for my Love , Whose coming overlate did prove , A Lion with with inhumane paws , Came to that well to cool his jaws . His mouth was all with blood besmear'd , This instrument of Death I fear'd , I fled to hide my self for fear , And left behind my mantle there . The Lion having sl [ a ] k'd his thirst , Ran where I left my garment first , But when he saw no place for prey , He foul'd with blood my Livery : And having musied thus the same , Thither he went whence first he came : But I knew not that he was gone , And therefore stayed I hid alone . In the mean time ( O grief ) came he , Who promis'd had to meet with me , And under this our plighted bough , He sought performance of our vow . He found not me , but found my Coat , All bloodied by the Lyons throat , Which when he saw with blood belayed , My absence made him soar afraid : What should he think , but that some beast , Upon my carcase made his Feas He thought that the grim Lyons whelp , Devoured me being void of help . While he these events thus did brook , The instrument of death he took , A naked sword , which by his side , Ready for Combats he had tied : I have , quoth he , wrought my Loves death , The end of her shall end my breath , And thereupon thrust to the hilt His sword , and thus his blood he spilled . That the first Passenger might know , The dismal events of this woe , He wrote and pinn'd a note thereof , Upon his Hat to show the proof : Which I being void of fear at last , And thinking all the danger past , Returning from that hideous bed , Whereto I from the Lion fled , I found this Copy of his death , And his dead carcase void of breath : No sobs , no sighs , no griefs , no groans , No trickling tears , no mournful moans , No ejaculations , no cries , No doleful Ditty , or Elegies , Shall serve for to bewail his end , Which for my love his life did spend . In life his love did me pursue , But by his death he prov'd it true : If he then for my sake did die , As much for him wh [ y ] should not I ? Since death hath us denied our right , Then friendly death shall us unite , And I will follow him in haste , Who thought he followed me being past . These words assoon as she had spoke , She gave her self a deadly stroke : She drew the sword out of his breast , And in her own the same she thrust . And as in life their hearts were one , So are their lives together gone , In spite of parents , time or place , Found love will run his wished raze . Thus have you herd a Tragedy Acted by lovers constancy , God send such lovers better speed , Where fervency true Love does breed . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Francis Coules and are to be should at his shop in the Old-Bayley . The Constancy of True Love , OR , . And Excellent Relation of the Untimely Death of Two Faithful Lovers . To the tune of Downe by a Forest IN that fair fragrant month of May , When earth her curtains does display , I did by chance my corpse repose Upon a bank , which Woods did close , With green and leavy bowers about ; A place to shun the tedious rout Of Tibs and Toms , for this intent , This flowery seat I did frequent . Nature had strove to show her feat In the composure of this seat ; For in a Valley plain was found , This place by hills encircled round . Both lofty Beech and Cedars tall Did shelter this rich Sylvan hall . Here Satires and the Naiades , Here Silvans and the Driades , Here rural gods and tripping Nymphs , Did both their corpse in the pure lymphs , And crystal streams which made a noise In compassing this place of joys . No fairer place nor Fountain found Dian' with golden tresses crown'd , And Lad [ y - ] guarded in this seat , the wihstling wind cool'd summer's heat Here the nine Muses used to dance , Here the kind graces used to prance ; Here Phaebe his warbling harp did tune , The lifesome months of May & June . Here Philomel tun'd melody , Hither the chirping birds did fly , Here Thrush & blackbird from their throats strain'd diverse sundry pleasant notes . Here the Nymph Echo in hollow ground Did the last syllable resound ; What harbour could the world spare more trim , more neat , more sweet more rare ? Here as I sat musing alone , Me thought I herd one grieve and groan , Ah me poor wretch , this creature said , Whereat my senses grew afraid . I started looking here and there , To view the subject of this fear : A Lady object to mine eyes , I found the effect of all these cries ; I hasted to inquire the cause Which did her weeping eyes amaze : Behold , quoth she , my Love ( alas ) Whose crimson blood here dies the grass . The sweetest creature here lies dead , That famous Europe ever bred ; I have my wronged Lover slain , His death shall be the death of twaine . I prayed her then for to relate , The cause of his untimely fate ; She then scarce fetching of her breath , Begins the Story of his death . Blind Cupid ( quoth she ) with his dart , In tender years did wound his heart , Made subject to the love of me , And actor of this tragedy . His heart and mind together tried , His love and mine together ti'ed , Our parents sought to cross our will , But we continued constant still . Though time the disadvantage gave , And we not place for love could have , Yet still we sought to recompense , Love with true love without offence . We dwelled in neighbouring houses nigh , And getting conference thereby ; We did appoint under this tree To meet but disappointed be . The second part , To the same tune . WHen bright Aurora peeped out , And Phaebus newly look'd about , I first ( according to my vow ) made haste unto this plighted bough : Here as I stayed for my Love , Whose coming overlate did prove , A Lion with with inhumane paws , Came to that well to cool his jaws . His mouth was all with blood besmear'd , This instrument of Death I fear'd , I fled to hide my self for fear , And left behind my mantle there . The Lion having sl [ a ] k'd his thirst , Ran where I left my garment first , But when he saw no place for prey , He foul'd with blood my Livery : And having musied thus the same , Thither he went whence first he came : But I knew not that he was gone , And therefore stayed I hid alone . In the mean time ( O grief ) came he , Who promis'd had to meet with me , And under this our plighted bough , He sought performance of our vow . He found not me , but found my Coat , All bloodied by the Lyons throat , Which when he saw with blood belayed , My absence made him soar afraid : What should he think , but that some beast , Upon my carcase made his Feas He thought that the grim Lyons whelp , Devoured me being void of help . While he these events thus did brook , The instrument of death he took , A naked sword , which by his side , Ready for Combats he had tied : I have , quoth he , wrought my Loves death , The end of her shall end my breath , And thereupon thrust to the hilt His sword , and thus his blood he spilled . That the first Passenger might know , The dismal events of this woe , He wrote and pinn'd a note thereof , Upon his Hat to show the proof : Which I being void of fear at last , And thinking all the danger past , Returning from that hideous bed , Whereto I from the Lion fled , I found this Copy of his death , And his dead carcase void of breath : No sobs , no sighs , no griefs , no groans , No trickling tears , no mournful moans , No ejaculations , no cries , No doleful Ditty , or Elegies , Shall serve for to bewail his end , Which for my love his life did spend . In life his love did me pursue , But by his death he prov'd it true : If he then for my sake did die , As much for him wh [ y ] should not I ? Since death hath us denied our right , Then friendly death shall us unite , And I will follow him in haste , Who thought he followed me being past . These words assoon as she had spoke , She gave her self a deadly stroke : She drew the sword out of his breast , And in her own the same she thrust . And as in life their hearts were one , So are their lives together gone , In spite of parents , time or place , Found love will run his wished raze . Thus have you herd a Tragedy Acted by lovers constancy , God send such lovers better speed , Where fervency true Love does breed . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Francis Coules and are to be should at his shop in the Old-Bayley . The Constancy of True Love , OR , . And Excellent Relation of the Untimely Death of Two Faithful Lovers . To the tune of Downe by a Forest IN that fair fragrant month of May , When earth her curtains does display , I did by chance my corpse repose Upon a bank , which Woods did close , With green and leavy bowers about ; A place to shun the tedious rout Of Tibs and Toms , for this intent , This flowery seat I did frequent . Nature had strove to show her feat In the composure of this seat ; For in a Valley plain was found , This place by hills encircled round . Both lofty Beech and Cedars tall Did shelter this rich Sylvan hall . Here Satires and the Naiades , Here Silvans and the Driades , Here rural gods and tripping Nymphs , Did both their corpse in the pure lymphs , And crystal streams which made a noise In compassing this place of joys . No fairer place nor Fountain found Dian' with golden tresses crown'd , And Lad [ y - ] guarded in this seat , the wihstling wind cool'd summer's heat Here the nine Muses used to dance , Here the kind graces used to prance ; Here Phaebe his warbling harp did tune , The lifesome months of May & June . Here Philomel tun'd melody , Hither the chirping birds did fly , Here Thrush & blackbird from their throats strain'd diverse sundry pleasant notes . Here the Nymph Echo in hollow ground Did the last syllable resound ; What harbour could the world spare more trim , more neat , more sweet more rare ? Here as I sat musing alone , Me thought I herd one grieve and groan , Ah me poor wretch , this creature said , Whereat my senses grew afraid . I started looking here and there , To view the subject of this fear : A Lady object to mine eyes , I found the effect of all these cries ; I hasted to inquire the cause Which did her weeping eyes amaze : Behold , quoth she , my Love ( alas ) Whose crimson blood here dies the grass . The sweetest creature here lies dead , That famous Europe ever bred ; I have my wronged Lover slain , His death shall be the death of twaine . I prayed her then for to relate , The cause of his untimely fate ; She then scarce fetching of her breath , Begins the Story of his death . Blind Cupid ( quoth she ) with his dart , In tender years did wound his heart , Made subject to the love of me , And actor of this tragedy . His heart and mind together tried , His love and mine together ti'ed , Our parents sought to cross our will , But we continued constant still . Though time the disadvantage gave , And we not place for love could have , Yet still we sought to recompense , Love with true love without offence . We dwelled in neighbouring houses nigh , And getting conference thereby ; We did appoint under this tree To meet but disappointed be . The second part , To the same tune . WHen bright Aurora peeped out , And Phaebus newly look'd about , I first ( according to my vow ) made haste unto this plighted bough : Here as I stayed for my Love , Whose coming overlate did prove , A Lion with with inhumane paws , Came to that well to cool his jaws . His mouth was all with blood besmear'd , This instrument of Death I fear'd , I fled to hide my self for fear , And left behind my mantle there . The Lion having sl [ a ] k'd his thirst , Ran where I left my garment first , But when he saw no place for prey , He foul'd with blood my Livery : And having musied thus the same , Thither he went whence first he came : But I knew not that he was gone , And therefore stayed I hid alone . In the mean time ( O grief ) came he , Who promis'd had to meet with me , And under this our plighted bough , He sought performance of our vow . He found not me , but found my Coat , All bloodied by the Lyons throat , Which when he saw with blood belayed , My absence made him soar afraid : What should he think , but that some beast , Upon my carcase made his Feas He thought that the grim Lyons whelp , Devoured me being void of help . While he these events thus did brook , The instrument of death he took , A naked sword , which by his side , Ready for Combats he had tied : I have , quoth he , wrought my Loves death , The end of her shall end my breath , And thereupon thrust to the hilt His sword , and thus his blood he spilled . That the first Passenger might know , The dismal events of this woe , He wrote and pinn'd a note thereof , Upon his Hat to show the proof : Which I being void of fear at last , And thinking all the danger past , Returning from that hideous bed , Whereto I from the Lion fled , I found this Copy of his death , And his dead carcase void of breath : No sobs , no sighs , no griefs , no groans , No trickling tears , no mournful moans , No ejaculations , no cries , No doleful Ditty , or Elegies , Shall serve for to bewail his end , Which for my love his life did spend . In life his love did me pursue , But by his death he prov'd it true : If he then for my sake did die , As much for him wh [ y ] should not I ? Since death hath us denied our right , Then friendly death shall us unite , And I will follow him in haste , Who thought he followed me being past . These words assoon as she had spoke , She gave her self a deadly stroke : She drew the sword out of his breast , And in her own the same she thrust . And as in life their hearts were one , So are their lives together gone , In spite of parents , time or place , Found love will run his wished raze . Thus have you herd a Tragedy Acted by lovers constancy , God send such lovers better speed , Where fervency true Love does breed . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Francis Coules and are to be should at his shop in the Old-Bayley . 