And ANSWER To Moggy's Misfortune : OR , The kind and courteous Courtship of Shakum Guy , after the Funeral of his cross and froward Wife ; which proved the two Lovers happy Conclusion . Tune of Robin Cushe . Licensed according to Order . MOggy now rejoice and sing , I'm present thee with a Ring , Nay , and joyful News I bring , my Wife is dead and bury'd : Therefore let's be jolly , Drive hence Melancholy , This Night let us dally , next day we'll be marry'd . To thy Shakum be not coy , Thou'st have god a pretty Toy , Which I'd willingly enjoy , and therefore fit down by me : In my Arms I'll tease thee , Likewise kiss and squeeze thee , I'm am sure 'twill please thee : prithee do but try me . I'm have muckle Gold in store , What canst thou desire more ? We shall live and ne'er be poor , but always blithe and bonny : Drink good Sack and Sherry , Always brisk and merry , Never , never weary , of my dearest Honey . My Grandsire he is stiff and old , Likewise I know his Blood is cold , And will e'er long be laid in Mould , as being dead and bury'd : Then I'm have his Riches , Grey Coat , Leathern Breeches , O how my Fingers Itches , Dearest , to be Marry'd ! Once I led a weary Life , With a cross and froward Wife , Which created Care and Strife , with her I was offended : Now the Fates betide her , No such Scold beside her , Now a Grave does hide her , and my Plague is ended . For she's clearly fled away , And has left her Shakum Gay , Long I wish'd to see this day , but ne'er before could find i Now since she is buried , We will not defer it , But with speed be Married , and with this Kiss I bind it . Shakum Gay she then reply'd , I'm will freely be your Bride , And lig closely by your side , 'tis my will and pleasure : Ne'er will I'm forsake tO [ he ] But in Wedlock take tO [ he ] And resolve to make thee Laird of all my Treasure . Farewell Rock and farewell Reel , Thrice farewell my Spinning-Wheel , Let them gang unto the Deel , I'm freely can refuse them : Having time and leisure , Likewise Gold and Treasure , Here I'm take my pleasure , and no more will use them . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . And ANSWER To Moggy's Misfortune : OR , The kind and courteous Courtship of Shakum Guy , after the Funeral of his cross and froward Wife ; which proved the two Lovers happy Conclusion . Tune of Robin Cushe . Licensed according to Order . MOggy now rejoice and sing , I'm present thee with a Ring , Nay , and joyful News I bring , my Wife is dead and bury'd : Therefore let's be jolly , Drive hence Melancholy , This Night let us dally , next day we'll be marry'd . To thy Shakum be not coy , Thou'st have god a pretty Toy , Which I'd willingly enjoy , and therefore fit down by me : In my Arms I'll tease thee , Likewise kiss and squeeze thee , I'm am sure 'twill please thee : prithee do but try me . I'm have muckle Gold in store , What canst thou desire more ? We shall live and ne'er be poor , but always blithe and bonny : Drink good Sack and Sherry , Always brisk and merry , Never , never weary , of my dearest Honey . My Grandsire he is stiff and old , Likewise I know his Blood is cold , And will e'er long be laid in Mould , as being dead and bury'd : Then I'm have his Riches , Grey Coat , Leathern Breeches , O how my Fingers Itches , Dearest , to be Marry'd ! Once I led a weary Life , With a cross and froward Wife , Which created Care and Strife , with her I was offended : Now the Fates betide her , No such Scold beside her , Now a Grave does hide her , and my Plague is ended . For she's clearly fled away , And has left her Shakum Gay , Long I wish'd to see this day , but ne'er before could find i Now since she is buried , We will not defer it , But with speed be Married , and with this Kiss I bind it . Shakum Gay she then reply'd , I'm will freely be your Bride , And lig closely by your side , 'tis my will and pleasure : Ne'er will I'm forsake tO [ he ] But in Wedlock take tO [ he ] And resolve to make thee Laird of all my Treasure . Farewell Rock and farewell Reel , Thrice farewell my Spinning-Wheel , Let them gang unto the Deel , I'm freely can refuse them : Having time and leisure , Likewise Gold and Treasure , Here I'm take my pleasure , and no more will use them . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 