A Dialogue between Master Guesright and poor neighbour Needy . OR A few proofs both real and true , Showing what men for money will do . To a pleasant new tune , called , But I know what I know . WEll met neighbour Needy , what walking alone , How comes it I pray that you thus sighs and groan , The cause by your physiognomy straight I can tell , And know by the same that all is not well . In truth master Guesright you speak very true , For money I want and believe so do you . And therefore eene say , and do what you please , I know you are sick of my soar disease . For me neighbour Needy , the world is so hard . That solely my self I now cannot guard Beside young and old loves coin so entire , That have it they will though out of the fire . Nay , good neighbour Needy , I pray say not so , For then you will wrong a many I know , Beside I no way persuaded can be , That money is loved in the highest degree . Money if you think so I instant will prove , That few or none but money do love , And when I have done I know you will say , This all real truth , then harken I pray . Inprimis your Tailor , is loving and kind , Nor do I with him any fault find , But rest you assured and take it from me , That most he does , he does for his fee . Your Mercer in courtesy seldom forbears , To show you the prime and best of his wares , But if that a reason you'd have me to show , 'Tis cause he would get by the bargain I know . Your Barber most nimbly will trim your fine Pat [ oh ] , And if that you please turn up your mouchatto , But mark you what follows my kind loving neighbour , He looks to be gratified well for his labour . Your Vintner will spread you his linen most fine , And bring you both Sugar , Tobaco and Wine , And having so done requires but this To pay him his shot , which you must not miss . Again this is true , as I now do tell ye , A Cook in Pye-Corner will fill up your belly , And when you are satisfied , he like and Ass , Desires no money but eene for his sauce . The second part , to the same tune . Your Tapster is grown a right honest man , For he will misreckon no more than he can , For by his Jug , his Pot , and his Pipe , He has danc't himself and Officer ripe . Your outlandish Doctor most ready will be , To cure you of your infirmity , Which being effected , he for his skill , Desires no more but a golden Pill . Nay , what makes your Landlord let housen by lease , That you may live in 'em daily peace , But that he imagines and has and intent , You will not fail for to pay him his rend . What makes your Innkeeper to harbour the poor , And unto all comers set open his door , But that he intends if possible can , To have his reward of every man . What makes your Usurer ever your friend , And be so officious his money to lend , But that he intends to bring you in thrall , And get if he can , the Devil and all . Nay , what makes your Hangman , I tell you but so Such a base office for to undergo , But that he hope's , and ever presages , To have all their clothes as well as his wages . What makes your Broker so often to cry , See what you lack friend , what will you buy , But that he would as his neighbours all do , Get if he could for one penny two . What makes your Carrier to traverse the land , Nay , what makes your Soldier fight while he can stand , But that they intend my own dearest honey , To gain this same paltry thing called money . What makes your tooth drawer to cut off your corn , What makes your Sowgelder to wind up his horn , Nay , what makes the world to do as they do , But that they would purchase this same money too [ ? ] Nay , neighbour theres more then all these are yet , Which I for brevities sake do omit , But these I hope will very well prove , That men do more for money then love . Well neighbour Guesright if this same be true , Then home we will straight without more ado , And what we intend to none we will tell , But keep to our selves and so fare-you well . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Cowles . E.F. A Dialogue between Master Guesright and poor neighbour Needy . OR A few proofs both real and true , Showing what men for money will do . To a pleasant new tune , called , But I know what I know . WEll met neighbour Needy , what walking alone , How comes it I pray that you thus sighs and groan , The cause by your physiognomy straight I can tell , And know by the same that all is not well . In truth master Guesright you speak very true , For money I want and believe so do you . And therefore eene say , and do what you please , I know you are sick of my soar disease . For me neighbour Needy , the world is so hard . That solely my self I now cannot guard Beside young and old loves coin so entire , That have it they will though out of the fire . Nay , good neighbour Needy , I pray say not so , For then you will wrong a many I know , Beside I no way persuaded can be , That money is loved in the highest degree . Money if you think so I instant will prove , That few or none but money do love , And when I have done I know you will say , This all real truth , then harken I pray . Inprimis your Tailor , is loving and kind , Nor do I with him any fault find , But rest you assured and take it from me , That most he does , he does for his fee . Your Mercer in courtesy seldom forbears , To show you the prime and best of his wares , But if that a reason you'd have me to show , 'Tis cause he would get by the bargain I know . Your Barber most nimbly will trim your fine Pat [ oh ] , And if that you please turn up your mouchatto , But mark you what follows my kind loving neighbour , He looks to be gratified well for his labour . Your Vintner will spread you his linen most fine , And bring you both Sugar , Tobaco and Wine , And having so done requires but this To pay him his shot , which you must not miss . Again this is true , as I now do tell ye , A Cook in Pye-Corner will fill up your belly , And when you are satisfied , he like and Ass , Desires no money but eene for his sauce . The second part , to the same tune . Your Tapster is grown a right honest man , For he will misreckon no more than he can , For by his Jug , his Pot , and his Pipe , He has danc't himself and Officer ripe . Your outlandish Doctor most ready will be , To cure you of your infirmity , Which being effected , he for his skill , Desires no more but a golden Pill . Nay , what makes your Landlord let housen by lease , That you may live in 'em daily peace , But that he imagines and has and intent , You will not fail for to pay him his rend . What makes your Innkeeper to harbour the poor , And unto all comers set open his door , But that he intends if possible can , To have his reward of every man . What makes your Usurer ever your friend , And be so officious his money to lend , But that he intends to bring you in thrall , And get if he can , the Devil and all . Nay , what makes your Hangman , I tell you but so Such a base office for to undergo , But that he hope's , and ever presages , To have all their clothes as well as his wages . What makes your Broker so often to cry , See what you lack friend , what will you buy , But that he would as his neighbours all do , Get if he could for one penny two . What makes your Carrier to traverse the land , Nay , what makes your Soldier fight while he can stand , But that they intend my own dearest honey , To gain this same paltry thing called money . What makes your tooth drawer to cut off your corn , What makes your Sowgelder to wind up his horn , Nay , what makes the world to do as they do , But that they would purchase this same money too [ ? ] Nay , neighbour theres more then all these are yet , Which I for brevities sake do omit , But these I hope will very well prove , That men do more for money then love . Well neighbour Guesright if this same be true , Then home we will straight without more ado , And what we intend to none we will tell , But keep to our selves and so fare-you well . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Cowles . E.F. A Dialogue between Master Guesright and poor neighbour Needy . OR A few proofs both real and true , Showing what men for money will do . To a pleasant new tune , called , But I know what I know . WEll met neighbour Needy , what walking alone , How comes it I pray that you thus sighs and groan , The cause by your physiognomy straight I can tell , And know by the same that all is not well . In truth master Guesright you speak very true , For money I want and believe so do you . And therefore eene say , and do what you please , I know you are sick of my soar disease . For me neighbour Needy , the world is so hard . That solely my self I now cannot guard Beside young and old loves coin so entire , That have it they will though out of the fire . Nay , good neighbour Needy , I pray say not so , For then you will wrong a many I know , Beside I no way persuaded can be , That money is loved in the highest degree . Money if you think so I instant will prove , That few or none but money do love , And when I have done I know you will say , This all real truth , then harken I pray . Inprimis your Tailor , is loving and kind , Nor do I with him any fault find , But rest you assured and take it from me , That most he does , he does for his fee . Your Mercer in courtesy seldom forbears , To show you the prime and best of his wares , But if that a reason you'd have me to show , 'Tis cause he would get by the bargain I know . Your Barber most nimbly will trim your fine Pat [ oh ] , And if that you please turn up your mouchatto , But mark you what follows my kind loving neighbour , He looks to be gratified well for his labour . Your Vintner will spread you his linen most fine , And bring you both Sugar , Tobaco and Wine , And having so done requires but this To pay him his shot , which you must not miss . Again this is true , as I now do tell ye , A Cook in Pye-Corner will fill up your belly , And when you are satisfied , he like and Ass , Desires no money but eene for his sauce . The second part , to the same tune . Your Tapster is grown a right honest man , For he will misreckon no more than he can , For by his Jug , his Pot , and his Pipe , He has danc't himself and Officer ripe . Your outlandish Doctor most ready will be , To cure you of your infirmity , Which being effected , he for his skill , Desires no more but a golden Pill . Nay , what makes your Landlord let housen by lease , That you may live in 'em daily peace , But that he imagines and has and intent , You will not fail for to pay him his rend . What makes your Innkeeper to harbour the poor , And unto all comers set open his door , But that he intends if possible can , To have his reward of every man . What makes your Usurer ever your friend , And be so officious his money to lend , But that he intends to bring you in thrall , And get if he can , the Devil and all . Nay , what makes your Hangman , I tell you but so Such a base office for to undergo , But that he hope's , and ever presages , To have all their clothes as well as his wages . What makes your Broker so often to cry , See what you lack friend , what will you buy , But that he would as his neighbours all do , Get if he could for one penny two . What makes your Carrier to traverse the land , Nay , what makes your Soldier fight while he can stand , But that they intend my own dearest honey , To gain this same paltry thing called money . What makes your tooth drawer to cut off your corn , What makes your Sowgelder to wind up his horn , Nay , what makes the world to do as they do , But that they would purchase this same money too [ ? ] Nay , neighbour theres more then all these are yet , Which I for brevities sake do omit , But these I hope will very well prove , That men do more for money then love . Well neighbour Guesright if this same be true , Then home we will straight without more ado , And what we intend to none we will tell , But keep to our selves and so fare-you well . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Cowles . E.F. A Dialogue between Master Guesright and poor neighbour Needy . OR A few proofs both real and true , Showing what men for money will do . To a pleasant new tune , called , But I know what I know . WEll met neighbour Needy , what walking alone , How comes it I pray that you thus sighs and groan , The cause by your physiognomy straight I can tell , And know by the same that all is not well . In truth master Guesright you speak very true , For money I want and believe so do you . And therefore eene say , and do what you please , I know you are sick of my soar disease . For me neighbour Needy , the world is so hard . That solely my self I now cannot guard Beside young and old loves coin so entire , That have it they will though out of the fire . Nay , good neighbour Needy , I pray say not so , For then you will wrong a many I know , Beside I no way persuaded can be , That money is loved in the highest degree . Money if you think so I instant will prove , That few or none but money do love , And when I have done I know you will say , This all real truth , then harken I pray . Inprimis your Tailor , is loving and kind , Nor do I with him any fault find , But rest you assured and take it from me , That most he does , he does for his fee . Your Mercer in courtesy seldom forbears , To show you the prime and best of his wares , But if that a reason you'd have me to show , 'Tis cause he would get by the bargain I know . Your Barber most nimbly will trim your fine Pat [ oh ] , And if that you please turn up your mouchatto , But mark you what follows my kind loving neighbour , He looks to be gratified well for his labour . Your Vintner will spread you his linen most fine , And bring you both Sugar , Tobaco and Wine , And having so done requires but this To pay him his shot , which you must not miss . Again this is true , as I now do tell ye , A Cook in Pye-Corner will fill up your belly , And when you are satisfied , he like and Ass , Desires no money but eene for his sauce . The second part , to the same tune . Your Tapster is grown a right honest man , For he will misreckon no more than he can , For by his Jug , his Pot , and his Pipe , He has danc't himself and Officer ripe . Your outlandish Doctor most ready will be , To cure you of your infirmity , Which being effected , he for his skill , Desires no more but a golden Pill . Nay , what makes your Landlord let housen by lease , That you may live in 'em daily peace , But that he imagines and has and intent , You will not fail for to pay him his rend . What makes your Innkeeper to harbour the poor , And unto all comers set open his door , But that he intends if possible can , To have his reward of every man . What makes your Usurer ever your friend , And be so officious his money to lend , But that he intends to bring you in thrall , And get if he can , the Devil and all . Nay , what makes your Hangman , I tell you but so Such a base office for to undergo , But that he hope's , and ever presages , To have all their clothes as well as his wages . What makes your Broker so often to cry , See what you lack friend , what will you buy , But that he would as his neighbours all do , Get if he could for one penny two . What makes your Carrier to traverse the land , Nay , what makes your Soldier fight while he can stand , But that they intend my own dearest honey , To gain this same paltry thing called money . What makes your tooth drawer to cut off your corn , What makes your Sowgelder to wind up his horn , Nay , what makes the world to do as they do , But that they would purchase this same money too [ ? ] Nay , neighbour theres more then all these are yet , Which I for brevities sake do omit , But these I hope will very well prove , That men do more for money then love . Well neighbour Guesright if this same be true , Then home we will straight without more ado , And what we intend to none we will tell , But keep to our selves and so fare-you well . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Cowles . E.F. 