A most sweet Song of and English Merchant , born at Chichester . To and excellent new Tune . A Rich Merchant man , That was both grave and wise , Did kill a man at Emden Town , Through quarrels that did rise . Through quarrels that did rise , The Germane he was dead , And for this fact the Merchant man was judg'd to loose his head . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . A Scaffold built was , Within the Marketplace , And all the people far and near , Did thither flock apace . Did thither flock apace , This doleful sighed to see , Who , all in velvet black as Jet , unto the place came he . A sweet thing is love , etc Bareheaded was he brought , His hands were bound before , A Cambricke Ruff about his neck , As white as milk he wore : His Stockings were of silk , As fine as fine might be Of person , and of countenance , a proper man was he . A sweet thing is love , etc When he was mounted up , Upon the Scaffold high , All women said great pity 'twas , So sweet a man should die . The Merchant's of the Town , From death to set him free , Did proffer there two thousand pound , but yet it would not be . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . The Prisoner hereupon , Began to speak his mind , Quoth he , I have deserved death , In conscience I do find : Yet soar against my will , This man I killed , quoth he , As Christ does know , which of my soul must only Saviour be . A sweet thing is love , etc With heart I do repent This most unhappy deed ; And for his wife and children small , My very soul does bleed : This deed is done and passed , My hope of life is vain , And yet the loss of this my life , to them is little gain . A sweet thing is love , etc Unto the widow poor , And her two Babes therefore , I give a hundred pound a piece , Their comfort to restore : Desiring at their hands , No one request but this , They will speak well of Englishm [ en ] though I have done amiss . A sweet thing is love , etc This was no sooner spoke , But that to stint his grief , Ten goodly Maids did proffer him , For love to beg his life : This is our law , quoth they , We may your death remove , If you in lieu of our good will , will grant to us your love . A sweet thing is love , etc Brave Englishman , quoth one , 'Tis I will beg thy life : Nay , quoth the second , it is I , If I must be thy wife : 'Tis I , the third did say ; Nay , quoth the fourth , 'tis I : So each one after other said , still waiting his reply . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . The second Part , To the same tune . Fair Maidens all , quoth he , I must confess and say , That each of you full worthy is , To be a Lady gay : And I unworthy far , The worst of you to have , Though you have offered willingly my loathed life to save . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . Then take a thousand thanks Of me a dying man : But speak no more of love nor life , For why , my life is gone . To Christ my love I give , My body unto death : For none of you my heart can love , though I do loose my breath . A sweet thing is love , etc Fair Maids lament no more , Your Country Law is such , It takes but hold upon my life , My goods it cannot touch : Within one chest I have In gold a thousand pound , I give it equal to you all , for love which I have found . A sweet thing is love , etc And now deer friends farewell , Sweet England eake adieu , And Chicester where I was born , Where first this breath I drew . And now thou man of death , Unto thy weapon stand : Ah nay another Damsel cry'd , sweet Headsman hold thy hand . A sweet thing is love , etc Now hear a Maidens plaint , Brave Englishman , quoth she , And grant her love for love again , That craves but love of thee : I woo and sue for love , That have been wooed ere this , Then grant me love , and therewithal she proffers him a kiss . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . And die within mine arms , If thou wilt die , quoth she ; Yea live or die sweet Englishman , I'll live and die with thee . But can it be , he said , That thou dost love me so : 'Tis not by long acquaintance sir , whereby true love does grow . A sweet thing is love , etc Then beg my life , quoth he , And I will be thine own ; If I should seek the world for love , More love cannot be shown . The people on that word , Did give a joyful cry , And said , it had great pity been , so sweet a man should die A sweet thing is love , etc I go my Love , she said , I run , I fly for thee ; And gentle Headsman spare a while , My Lovers life for me : Unto the Duke she went , Who did her grief remove ; And with and hundred Maidens more , she went to fetch her Love . A sweet thing is love , etc With music sounding sweet , The foremost of the train , This gallant Maiden like a Bride , Did fetch him back again : Yea hand in hand they went Unto the Church that day , And they were married presently in sumptuous rich array . A sweet thing is love , etc To England came he then , With this his lovely Bride , A fairer woman never lay By any Merchant's side : Where I must leave them now , In pleasure and delight ; But of their name and dwelling place , I must not here recite . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort [ tO ] in the world to women that are kind . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis Coules in the Old-Bayley . A most sweet Song of and English Merchant , born at Chichester . To and excellent new Tune . A Rich Merchant man , That was both grave and wise , Did kill a man at Emden Town , Through quarrels that did rise . Through quarrels that did rise , The Germane he was dead , And for this fact the Merchant man was judg'd to loose his head . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . A Scaffold built was , Within the Marketplace , And all the people far and near , Did thither flock apace . Did thither flock apace , This doleful sighed to see , Who , all in velvet black as Jet , unto the place came he . A sweet thing is love , etc Bareheaded was he brought , His hands were bound before , A Cambricke Ruff about his neck , As white as milk he wore : His Stockings were of silk , As fine as fine might be Of person , and of countenance , a proper man was he . A sweet thing is love , etc When he was mounted up , Upon the Scaffold high , All women said great pity 'twas , So sweet a man should die . The Merchant's of the Town , From death to set him free , Did proffer there two thousand pound , but yet it would not be . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . The Prisoner hereupon , Began to speak his mind , Quoth he , I have deserved death , In conscience I do find : Yet soar against my will , This man I killed , quoth he , As Christ does know , which of my soul must only Saviour be . A sweet thing is love , etc With heart I do repent This most unhappy deed ; And for his wife and children small , My very soul does bleed : This deed is done and passed , My hope of life is vain , And yet the loss of this my life , to them is little gain . A sweet thing is love , etc Unto the widow poor , And her two Babes therefore , I give a hundred pound a piece , Their comfort to restore : Desiring at their hands , No one request but this , They will speak well of Englishm [ en ] though I have done amiss . A sweet thing is love , etc This was no sooner spoke , But that to stint his grief , Ten goodly Maids did proffer him , For love to beg his life : This is our law , quoth they , We may your death remove , If you in lieu of our good will , will grant to us your love . A sweet thing is love , etc Brave Englishman , quoth one , 'Tis I will beg thy life : Nay , quoth the second , it is I , If I must be thy wife : 'Tis I , the third did say ; Nay , quoth the fourth , 'tis I : So each one after other said , still waiting his reply . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . The second Part , To the same tune . Fair Maidens all , quoth he , I must confess and say , That each of you full worthy is , To be a Lady gay : And I unworthy far , The worst of you to have , Though you have offered willingly my loathed life to save . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . Then take a thousand thanks Of me a dying man : But speak no more of love nor life , For why , my life is gone . To Christ my love I give , My body unto death : For none of you my heart can love , though I do loose my breath . A sweet thing is love , etc Fair Maids lament no more , Your Country Law is such , It takes but hold upon my life , My goods it cannot touch : Within one chest I have In gold a thousand pound , I give it equal to you all , for love which I have found . A sweet thing is love , etc And now deer friends farewell , Sweet England eake adieu , And Chicester where I was born , Where first this breath I drew . And now thou man of death , Unto thy weapon stand : Ah nay another Damsel cry'd , sweet Headsman hold thy hand . A sweet thing is love , etc Now hear a Maidens plaint , Brave Englishman , quoth she , And grant her love for love again , That craves but love of thee : I woo and sue for love , That have been wooed ere this , Then grant me love , and therewithal she proffers him a kiss . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . And die within mine arms , If thou wilt die , quoth she ; Yea live or die sweet Englishman , I'll live and die with thee . But can it be , he said , That thou dost love me so : 'Tis not by long acquaintance sir , whereby true love does grow . A sweet thing is love , etc Then beg my life , quoth he , And I will be thine own ; If I should seek the world for love , More love cannot be shown . The people on that word , Did give a joyful cry , And said , it had great pity been , so sweet a man should die A sweet thing is love , etc I go my Love , she said , I run , I fly for thee ; And gentle Headsman spare a while , My Lovers life for me : Unto the Duke she went , Who did her grief remove ; And with and hundred Maidens more , she went to fetch her Love . A sweet thing is love , etc With music sounding sweet , The foremost of the train , This gallant Maiden like a Bride , Did fetch him back again : Yea hand in hand they went Unto the Church that day , And they were married presently in sumptuous rich array . A sweet thing is love , etc To England came he then , With this his lovely Bride , A fairer woman never lay By any Merchant's side : Where I must leave them now , In pleasure and delight ; But of their name and dwelling place , I must not here recite . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort [ tO ] in the world to women that are kind . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis Coules in the Old-Bayley . A most sweet Song of and English Merchant , born at Chichester . To and excellent new Tune . A Rich Merchant man , That was both grave and wise , Did kill a man at Emden Town , Through quarrels that did rise . Through quarrels that did rise , The Germane he was dead , And for this fact the Merchant man was judg'd to loose his head . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . A Scaffold built was , Within the Marketplace , And all the people far and near , Did thither flock apace . Did thither flock apace , This doleful sighed to see , Who , all in velvet black as Jet , unto the place came he . A sweet thing is love , etc Bareheaded was he brought , His hands were bound before , A Cambricke Ruff about his neck , As white as milk he wore : His Stockings were of silk , As fine as fine might be Of person , and of countenance , a proper man was he . A sweet thing is love , etc When he was mounted up , Upon the Scaffold high , All women said great pity 'twas , So sweet a man should die . The Merchant's of the Town , From death to set him free , Did proffer there two thousand pound , but yet it would not be . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . The Prisoner hereupon , Began to speak his mind , Quoth he , I have deserved death , In conscience I do find : Yet soar against my will , This man I killed , quoth he , As Christ does know , which of my soul must only Saviour be . A sweet thing is love , etc With heart I do repent This most unhappy deed ; And for his wife and children small , My very soul does bleed : This deed is done and passed , My hope of life is vain , And yet the loss of this my life , to them is little gain . A sweet thing is love , etc Unto the widow poor , And her two Babes therefore , I give a hundred pound a piece , Their comfort to restore : Desiring at their hands , No one request but this , They will speak well of Englishm [ en ] though I have done amiss . A sweet thing is love , etc This was no sooner spoke , But that to stint his grief , Ten goodly Maids did proffer him , For love to beg his life : This is our law , quoth they , We may your death remove , If you in lieu of our good will , will grant to us your love . A sweet thing is love , etc Brave Englishman , quoth one , 'Tis I will beg thy life : Nay , quoth the second , it is I , If I must be thy wife : 'Tis I , the third did say ; Nay , quoth the fourth , 'tis I : So each one after other said , still waiting his reply . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . The second Part , To the same tune . Fair Maidens all , quoth he , I must confess and say , That each of you full worthy is , To be a Lady gay : And I unworthy far , The worst of you to have , Though you have offered willingly my loathed life to save . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . Then take a thousand thanks Of me a dying man : But speak no more of love nor life , For why , my life is gone . To Christ my love I give , My body unto death : For none of you my heart can love , though I do loose my breath . A sweet thing is love , etc Fair Maids lament no more , Your Country Law is such , It takes but hold upon my life , My goods it cannot touch : Within one chest I have In gold a thousand pound , I give it equal to you all , for love which I have found . A sweet thing is love , etc And now deer friends farewell , Sweet England eake adieu , And Chicester where I was born , Where first this breath I drew . And now thou man of death , Unto thy weapon stand : Ah nay another Damsel cry'd , sweet Headsman hold thy hand . A sweet thing is love , etc Now hear a Maidens plaint , Brave Englishman , quoth she , And grant her love for love again , That craves but love of thee : I woo and sue for love , That have been wooed ere this , Then grant me love , and therewithal she proffers him a kiss . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . And die within mine arms , If thou wilt die , quoth she ; Yea live or die sweet Englishman , I'll live and die with thee . But can it be , he said , That thou dost love me so : 'Tis not by long acquaintance sir , whereby true love does grow . A sweet thing is love , etc Then beg my life , quoth he , And I will be thine own ; If I should seek the world for love , More love cannot be shown . The people on that word , Did give a joyful cry , And said , it had great pity been , so sweet a man should die A sweet thing is love , etc I go my Love , she said , I run , I fly for thee ; And gentle Headsman spare a while , My Lovers life for me : Unto the Duke she went , Who did her grief remove ; And with and hundred Maidens more , she went to fetch her Love . A sweet thing is love , etc With music sounding sweet , The foremost of the train , This gallant Maiden like a Bride , Did fetch him back again : Yea hand in hand they went Unto the Church that day , And they were married presently in sumptuous rich array . A sweet thing is love , etc To England came he then , With this his lovely Bride , A fairer woman never lay By any Merchant's side : Where I must leave them now , In pleasure and delight ; But of their name and dwelling place , I must not here recite . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort [ tO ] in the world to women that are kind . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis Coules in the Old-Bayley . A most sweet Song of and English Merchant , born at Chichester . To and excellent new Tune . A Rich Merchant man , That was both grave and wise , Did kill a man at Emden Town , Through quarrels that did rise . Through quarrels that did rise , The Germane he was dead , And for this fact the Merchant man was judg'd to loose his head . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . A Scaffold built was , Within the Marketplace , And all the people far and near , Did thither flock apace . Did thither flock apace , This doleful sighed to see , Who , all in velvet black as Jet , unto the place came he . A sweet thing is love , etc Bareheaded was he brought , His hands were bound before , A Cambricke Ruff about his neck , As white as milk he wore : His Stockings were of silk , As fine as fine might be Of person , and of countenance , a proper man was he . A sweet thing is love , etc When he was mounted up , Upon the Scaffold high , All women said great pity 'twas , So sweet a man should die . The Merchant's of the Town , From death to set him free , Did proffer there two thousand pound , but yet it would not be . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . The Prisoner hereupon , Began to speak his mind , Quoth he , I have deserved death , In conscience I do find : Yet soar against my will , This man I killed , quoth he , As Christ does know , which of my soul must only Saviour be . A sweet thing is love , etc With heart I do repent This most unhappy deed ; And for his wife and children small , My very soul does bleed : This deed is done and passed , My hope of life is vain , And yet the loss of this my life , to them is little gain . A sweet thing is love , etc Unto the widow poor , And her two Babes therefore , I give a hundred pound a piece , Their comfort to restore : Desiring at their hands , No one request but this , They will speak well of Englishm [ en ] though I have done amiss . A sweet thing is love , etc This was no sooner spoke , But that to stint his grief , Ten goodly Maids did proffer him , For love to beg his life : This is our law , quoth they , We may your death remove , If you in lieu of our good will , will grant to us your love . A sweet thing is love , etc Brave Englishman , quoth one , 'Tis I will beg thy life : Nay , quoth the second , it is I , If I must be thy wife : 'Tis I , the third did say ; Nay , quoth the fourth , 'tis I : So each one after other said , still waiting his reply . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . The second Part , To the same tune . Fair Maidens all , quoth he , I must confess and say , That each of you full worthy is , To be a Lady gay : And I unworthy far , The worst of you to have , Though you have offered willingly my loathed life to save . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . Then take a thousand thanks Of me a dying man : But speak no more of love nor life , For why , my life is gone . To Christ my love I give , My body unto death : For none of you my heart can love , though I do loose my breath . A sweet thing is love , etc Fair Maids lament no more , Your Country Law is such , It takes but hold upon my life , My goods it cannot touch : Within one chest I have In gold a thousand pound , I give it equal to you all , for love which I have found . A sweet thing is love , etc And now deer friends farewell , Sweet England eake adieu , And Chicester where I was born , Where first this breath I drew . And now thou man of death , Unto thy weapon stand : Ah nay another Damsel cry'd , sweet Headsman hold thy hand . A sweet thing is love , etc Now hear a Maidens plaint , Brave Englishman , quoth she , And grant her love for love again , That craves but love of thee : I woo and sue for love , That have been wooed ere this , Then grant me love , and therewithal she proffers him a kiss . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort in the world to women that are kind . And die within mine arms , If thou wilt die , quoth she ; Yea live or die sweet Englishman , I'll live and die with thee . But can it be , he said , That thou dost love me so : 'Tis not by long acquaintance sir , whereby true love does grow . A sweet thing is love , etc Then beg my life , quoth he , And I will be thine own ; If I should seek the world for love , More love cannot be shown . The people on that word , Did give a joyful cry , And said , it had great pity been , so sweet a man should die A sweet thing is love , etc I go my Love , she said , I run , I fly for thee ; And gentle Headsman spare a while , My Lovers life for me : Unto the Duke she went , Who did her grief remove ; And with and hundred Maidens more , she went to fetch her Love . A sweet thing is love , etc With music sounding sweet , The foremost of the train , This gallant Maiden like a Bride , Did fetch him back again : Yea hand in hand they went Unto the Church that day , And they were married presently in sumptuous rich array . A sweet thing is love , etc To England came he then , With this his lovely Bride , A fairer woman never lay By any Merchant's side : Where I must leave them now , In pleasure and delight ; But of their name and dwelling place , I must not here recite . A sweet thing is love , It rules both heart and mind ; There is no comfort [ tO ] in the world to women that are kind . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis Coules in the Old-Bayley . 