The most rare and excellent History Of the Duchess of Suffolkes calamity . To the tune of Queen Dido . WHen God had taken for our sin , that prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray , All those that did Gods Word profess , He persecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards tower , whereby they might the truth forgo , Then Cranmer , Ridley and the rest , Were burned in fire that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with faggots filled , and many places more beside ; At Coventry was Saunders kill'd ; at Worster eke good Hooper died , And to escape this bloody day , Beyond Seas many fled away . among the rest that sought release , and for their faith in danger stood , Lady Elizabeth was chief King Henries daughter of royal blood , Which in the Tower did prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die , The Duchess of Suffolke seeing this , whose life likewise the tyrant sought , Who in the hope of heavenly bliss , within Gods Word her comfort wrought , For fear of death was feign to fly , And leave her house most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her land and goods she left behind , Seeking still for that precious stone the Word of truth so rare to find , She with her nurse , husband , and child , In poor array their sights beguiled , Thus through London they passed along , each one did take a several stree Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billingsgate they all did meet : Like people poor in Gravesend Barge , They simply went with all their charge . And all along from Gravesend town , with journeys short on foot they went Unto the Seacoast they came down , to pass the Seas was their intent , And God provided so that day , That they took ship and sail'd away . And with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders safe they did arrive , This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heart much woe did drive And so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they travell'd still disguis'd upon the high way suddenly , By cruel thieves they were surpriz'd , assailing their small company . And all their treasure and their store They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of their fight , laid down the child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed . and never after that was found . Then did the Duchess make great moan , With her good husband all alone . The thieves had there their horses kill'd , and all their money quite had took , The pretty Baby almost spoiled , was by the nurse likewise forsook : And tkey far from their friends did stand , And succourless in a strange land . The second part , To the same tune . THe Sky likewise began to scowl , it hail'd and rain'd in piteous sort , The way was long and wondrous foul : then may I now full well report ; Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . Sometime the Duchess boar the child , all wet as ever she could be ; And when the Lady kind and mild was weary , then the child boar he , And thus they one another eas'd , And with their fortune's were well pleased And after many weary steps all wet shod both in dirt and mire , after much grief their hearts yet leaps , for labour does some rest require , A town before them they did see , But lodg'd therein he could not be . From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of money was their woe , and still their babe with cold did cry : With cap and knee they courtesy make , But none on them would pity take . Loe here a Princess of great blood , does pray a peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regards her grief . Her speech they could not understand , But gave her money in her hand . When all in vain their pains were spet , and that they could no houseroom get , Into a Church porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and we Then said the Duchess to her deer , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her husband so provide , that fire and coals he god with speed , She sat down by the fire side , to dress her daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her husband made the infant pap . Anon the Sexton thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The drunken knave , all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire , And spurning forth the Noble Dame , Her Husbands wrath it did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church keys out his hand : And struck him so that all of blood his head ran down where he did stand Wherefore the Sexton presently , For help and aid aloud did cry . Then came the officers in haste ; and took the Duchess and her child , And with her husband thus they passed , like Lambs beset with Tigers wild , And to the Governor were brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then master Bartu brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misery did unfold , and their high favour did beseech , With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighs Unto them all that there did wait , he thus brake forth in words arigh Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Princess of most high degree . With that the Governor and the rest were all amazed the same to hear , Who welcomed this new come guest , with reverence great , & princely cheer . And afterwards covey'd they were Unto their friend Prince Cassimer . A son she had in Germany , Peregrine Bar [ tO ] u call'd by name , Surnam'd the good Lord Willoughby , of courage great and worthy fame : Her daughter young which with her went Was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen Mary was deceased the Duchess home return'd again , Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Elizabeths happy reign , Whose godly life and piety , we all may praise continually . FINIS . London Printed for Edward Wright Dwelling at Christ Church gate . The most rare and excellent History Of the Duchess of Suffolkes calamity . To the tune of Queen Dido . WHen God had taken for our sin , that prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray , All those that did Gods Word profess , He persecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards tower , whereby they might the truth forgo , Then Cranmer , Ridley and the rest , Were burned in fire that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with faggots filled , and many places more beside ; At Coventry was Saunders kill'd ; at Worster eke good Hooper died , And to escape this bloody day , Beyond Seas many fled away . among the rest that sought release , and for their faith in danger stood , Lady Elizabeth was chief King Henries daughter of royal blood , Which in the Tower did prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die , The Duchess of Suffolke seeing this , whose life likewise the tyrant sought , Who in the hope of heavenly bliss , within Gods Word her comfort wrought , For fear of death was feign to fly , And leave her house most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her land and goods she left behind , Seeking still for that precious stone the Word of truth so rare to find , She with her nurse , husband , and child , In poor array their sights beguiled , Thus through London they passed along , each one did take a several stree Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billingsgate they all did meet : Like people poor in Gravesend Barge , They simply went with all their charge . And all along from Gravesend town , with journeys short on foot they went Unto the Seacoast they came down , to pass the Seas was their intent , And God provided so that day , That they took ship and sail'd away . And with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders safe they did arrive , This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heart much woe did drive And so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they travell'd still disguis'd upon the high way suddenly , By cruel thieves they were surpriz'd , assailing their small company . And all their treasure and their store They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of their fight , laid down the child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed . and never after that was found . Then did the Duchess make great moan , With her good husband all alone . The thieves had there their horses kill'd , and all their money quite had took , The pretty Baby almost spoiled , was by the nurse likewise forsook : And tkey far from their friends did stand , And succourless in a strange land . The second part , To the same tune . THe Sky likewise began to scowl , it hail'd and rain'd in piteous sort , The way was long and wondrous foul : then may I now full well report ; Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . Sometime the Duchess boar the child , all wet as ever she could be ; And when the Lady kind and mild was weary , then the child boar he , And thus they one another eas'd , And with their fortune's were well pleased And after many weary steps all wet shod both in dirt and mire , after much grief their hearts yet leaps , for labour does some rest require , A town before them they did see , But lodg'd therein he could not be . From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of money was their woe , and still their babe with cold did cry : With cap and knee they courtesy make , But none on them would pity take . Loe here a Princess of great blood , does pray a peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regards her grief . Her speech they could not understand , But gave her money in her hand . When all in vain their pains were spet , and that they could no houseroom get , Into a Church porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and we Then said the Duchess to her deer , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her husband so provide , that fire and coals he god with speed , She sat down by the fire side , to dress her daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her husband made the infant pap . Anon the Sexton thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The drunken knave , all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire , And spurning forth the Noble Dame , Her Husbands wrath it did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church keys out his hand : And struck him so that all of blood his head ran down where he did stand Wherefore the Sexton presently , For help and aid aloud did cry . Then came the officers in haste ; and took the Duchess and her child , And with her husband thus they passed , like Lambs beset with Tigers wild , And to the Governor were brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then master Bartu brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misery did unfold , and their high favour did beseech , With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighs Unto them all that there did wait , he thus brake forth in words arigh Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Princess of most high degree . With that the Governor and the rest were all amazed the same to hear , Who welcomed this new come guest , with reverence great , & princely cheer . And afterwards covey'd they were Unto their friend Prince Cassimer . A son she had in Germany , Peregrine Bar [ tO ] u call'd by name , Surnam'd the good Lord Willoughby , of courage great and worthy fame : Her daughter young which with her went Was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen Mary was deceased the Duchess home return'd again , Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Elizabeths happy reign , Whose godly life and piety , we all may praise continually . FINIS . London Printed for Edward Wright Dwelling at Christ Church gate . The most rare and excellent History Of the Duchess of Suffolkes calamity . To the tune of Queen Dido . WHen God had taken for our sin , that prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray , All those that did Gods Word profess , He persecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards tower , whereby they might the truth forgo , Then Cranmer , Ridley and the rest , Were burned in fire that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with faggots filled , and many places more beside ; At Coventry was Saunders kill'd ; at Worster eke good Hooper died , And to escape this bloody day , Beyond Seas many fled away . among the rest that sought release , and for their faith in danger stood , Lady Elizabeth was chief King Henries daughter of royal blood , Which in the Tower did prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die , The Duchess of Suffolke seeing this , whose life likewise the tyrant sought , Who in the hope of heavenly bliss , within Gods Word her comfort wrought , For fear of death was feign to fly , And leave her house most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her land and goods she left behind , Seeking still for that precious stone the Word of truth so rare to find , She with her nurse , husband , and child , In poor array their sights beguiled , Thus through London they passed along , each one did take a several stree Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billingsgate they all did meet : Like people poor in Gravesend Barge , They simply went with all their charge . And all along from Gravesend town , with journeys short on foot they went Unto the Seacoast they came down , to pass the Seas was their intent , And God provided so that day , That they took ship and sail'd away . And with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders safe they did arrive , This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heart much woe did drive And so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they travell'd still disguis'd upon the high way suddenly , By cruel thieves they were surpriz'd , assailing their small company . And all their treasure and their store They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of their fight , laid down the child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed . and never after that was found . Then did the Duchess make great moan , With her good husband all alone . The thieves had there their horses kill'd , and all their money quite had took , The pretty Baby almost spoiled , was by the nurse likewise forsook : And tkey far from their friends did stand , And succourless in a strange land . The second part , To the same tune . THe Sky likewise began to scowl , it hail'd and rain'd in piteous sort , The way was long and wondrous foul : then may I now full well report ; Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . Sometime the Duchess boar the child , all wet as ever she could be ; And when the Lady kind and mild was weary , then the child boar he , And thus they one another eas'd , And with their fortune's were well pleased And after many weary steps all wet shod both in dirt and mire , after much grief their hearts yet leaps , for labour does some rest require , A town before them they did see , But lodg'd therein he could not be . From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of money was their woe , and still their babe with cold did cry : With cap and knee they courtesy make , But none on them would pity take . Loe here a Princess of great blood , does pray a peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regards her grief . Her speech they could not understand , But gave her money in her hand . When all in vain their pains were spet , and that they could no houseroom get , Into a Church porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and we Then said the Duchess to her deer , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her husband so provide , that fire and coals he god with speed , She sat down by the fire side , to dress her daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her husband made the infant pap . Anon the Sexton thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The drunken knave , all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire , And spurning forth the Noble Dame , Her Husbands wrath it did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church keys out his hand : And struck him so that all of blood his head ran down where he did stand Wherefore the Sexton presently , For help and aid aloud did cry . Then came the officers in haste ; and took the Duchess and her child , And with her husband thus they passed , like Lambs beset with Tigers wild , And to the Governor were brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then master Bartu brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misery did unfold , and their high favour did beseech , With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighs Unto them all that there did wait , he thus brake forth in words arigh Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Princess of most high degree . With that the Governor and the rest were all amazed the same to hear , Who welcomed this new come guest , with reverence great , & princely cheer . And afterwards covey'd they were Unto their friend Prince Cassimer . A son she had in Germany , Peregrine Bar [ tO ] u call'd by name , Surnam'd the good Lord Willoughby , of courage great and worthy fame : Her daughter young which with her went Was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen Mary was deceased the Duchess home return'd again , Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Elizabeths happy reign , Whose godly life and piety , we all may praise continually . FINIS . London Printed for Edward Wright Dwelling at Christ Church gate . The most rare and excellent History Of the Duchess of Suffolkes calamity . To the tune of Queen Dido . WHen God had taken for our sin , that prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray , All those that did Gods Word profess , He persecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards tower , whereby they might the truth forgo , Then Cranmer , Ridley and the rest , Were burned in fire that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with faggots filled , and many places more beside ; At Coventry was Saunders kill'd ; at Worster eke good Hooper died , And to escape this bloody day , Beyond Seas many fled away . among the rest that sought release , and for their faith in danger stood , Lady Elizabeth was chief King Henries daughter of royal blood , Which in the Tower did prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die , The Duchess of Suffolke seeing this , whose life likewise the tyrant sought , Who in the hope of heavenly bliss , within Gods Word her comfort wrought , For fear of death was feign to fly , And leave her house most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her land and goods she left behind , Seeking still for that precious stone the Word of truth so rare to find , She with her nurse , husband , and child , In poor array their sights beguiled , Thus through London they passed along , each one did take a several stree Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billingsgate they all did meet : Like people poor in Gravesend Barge , They simply went with all their charge . And all along from Gravesend town , with journeys short on foot they went Unto the Seacoast they came down , to pass the Seas was their intent , And God provided so that day , That they took ship and sail'd away . And with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders safe they did arrive , This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heart much woe did drive And so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they travell'd still disguis'd upon the high way suddenly , By cruel thieves they were surpriz'd , assailing their small company . And all their treasure and their store They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of their fight , laid down the child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed . and never after that was found . Then did the Duchess make great moan , With her good husband all alone . The thieves had there their horses kill'd , and all their money quite had took , The pretty Baby almost spoiled , was by the nurse likewise forsook : And tkey far from their friends did stand , And succourless in a strange land . The second part , To the same tune . THe Sky likewise began to scowl , it hail'd and rain'd in piteous sort , The way was long and wondrous foul : then may I now full well report ; Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . Sometime the Duchess boar the child , all wet as ever she could be ; And when the Lady kind and mild was weary , then the child boar he , And thus they one another eas'd , And with their fortune's were well pleased And after many weary steps all wet shod both in dirt and mire , after much grief their hearts yet leaps , for labour does some rest require , A town before them they did see , But lodg'd therein he could not be . From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of money was their woe , and still their babe with cold did cry : With cap and knee they courtesy make , But none on them would pity take . Loe here a Princess of great blood , does pray a peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regards her grief . Her speech they could not understand , But gave her money in her hand . When all in vain their pains were spet , and that they could no houseroom get , Into a Church porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and we Then said the Duchess to her deer , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her husband so provide , that fire and coals he god with speed , She sat down by the fire side , to dress her daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her husband made the infant pap . Anon the Sexton thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The drunken knave , all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire , And spurning forth the Noble Dame , Her Husbands wrath it did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church keys out his hand : And struck him so that all of blood his head ran down where he did stand Wherefore the Sexton presently , For help and aid aloud did cry . Then came the officers in haste ; and took the Duchess and her child , And with her husband thus they passed , like Lambs beset with Tigers wild , And to the Governor were brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then master Bartu brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misery did unfold , and their high favour did beseech , With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighs Unto them all that there did wait , he thus brake forth in words arigh Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Princess of most high degree . With that the Governor and the rest were all amazed the same to hear , Who welcomed this new come guest , with reverence great , & princely cheer . And afterwards covey'd they were Unto their friend Prince Cassimer . A son she had in Germany , Peregrine Bar [ tO ] u call'd by name , Surnam'd the good Lord Willoughby , of courage great and worthy fame : Her daughter young which with her went Was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen Mary was deceased the Duchess home return'd again , Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Elizabeths happy reign , Whose godly life and piety , we all may praise continually . FINIS . London Printed for Edward Wright Dwelling at Christ Church gate . 