And Excellent Son OR , The Swains complaint , whose cruel doom , It was to love he knew not whom . To the tune of , Bodkins Galliard . YOu gentle Nymph's that on the Meadows play , and oft relate the Loves of Shepherds young , Come fit you down , if that you please to stay , now may you hear and uncouth passion Song : A Lad there is , and I am that poor groom , That's fal'n in love , and cannot tell with whom . O do not smile at sorrow as a jest , with others cares good nature's moved be : And I should weep if you had my unrest , then at my grief how can you merry be ? Ah , where is tender pity now become ? I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . I that have oft the rarest features view'd , and beauty in her best perfection seen , I that have laugh't at them that love pursu'd , and ever free from such perfections been , Lo now at last so cruel is my doom , I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . My heart is full nigh bursting with desire , yet cannot tell from whence these longings flow , My breast does burn , but she that light the fire , I never saw , nor can I come to know : So great a bliss my fortune keeps me from , That though I dearly love , I know not whom . Ere I had twice foure Springs renewed seen , the force of beauty I began to prove , And ere I nine years old had fully been , it taught me how to frame a found of love , And little thought I this day should have come , Before that I to love had found out whom . For on my chin the mossy down you see , and in my veins well heated blood does gloe , Of Summer's I have seen twice three times three , and fast my youthful time away does go : That much I fear , I aged shall become , And still complain , I love I know not whom . O why had I a heart bestow'd on me , to cherish deer affections so inclin'd , Since I am so unhappy born to be , no object for so true a love to find , When I am dead it will be missed of some , Yet now I live , I love I know not whom . I to a thousand beauteous Nymph's am known , a hundred Ladies favours do I swear , I with as many half in love am grown , yet none of them I find can be my deer , Me thinks I have a Mistress yet to come , Which makes me sing , I love I know not whom . The second part , To the same tune . THere lives no swain does stronger passion prove for her , whom most he covets to possess , Then does my heart that being full of love , knows not to whom it may the same profess , For he that is despis'd hath sorrow some , But he hath more , that loves , & knows not whom . Knew I my Love , as many others do , to some one object might my thoughts be bent , So they divided , wandering should not go , until the souls united force be spent , As he that seeks , and never finds a home , Such is my rest , that love , and know not whom . Those whom the frowns of jealous friends divide , may live to meet and descant of their woe , And he hath gain'd a Lady for his Bride , that durst not woo his Maid a while ago : But o what ends unto my hope's can come , That am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Poor Collin grieves that he was late disdain'd , and Clores does for Willies absence pine , Sad Thirthes weeps for his sick Phebe pain'd , but all their sorrows cannot equal mine , A greater care on me , alas , is come , I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Narcissus-like did I affect my shade , some shadow yet I had to dote upon , Or did I love some Image of the dead , whose substance had not breathed long ago , I might despair , and so and end would come . But o I love , and cannot tell with whom . Once in a dream me thought my love I view'd , but never waking could her face behold , And doubtless that resemblance was but shew'd , that more my tired heart torment it should . For since that time more griev'd I am become , And more in love , I cannot tell with whom . When on my bed at night to rest I lie , my watchful eyes with tears bedew my cheeks , And then , o would it once were day I cry , yet when it comes I am as far to seek , For who can tell , though all the earth he room , Or when or where , to find he knows not whom . O if she be among the beauteous trains , of all the Nymph's that haunt the several Kills , Or if you know her Ladies of the plains , or you that have your Bowers on the Hills , Tell , if you can , who will my love become , Or I shall die , and never know for whom . Printed at London for J. Wright dwelling in Gilt-spur street near New-gate . FINIS . And Excellent Son OR , The Swains complaint , whose cruel doom , It was to love he knew not whom . To the tune of , Bodkins Galliard . YOu gentle Nymph's that on the Meadows play , and oft relate the Loves of Shepherds young , Come fit you down , if that you please to stay , now may you hear and uncouth passion Song : A Lad there is , and I am that poor groom , That's fal'n in love , and cannot tell with whom . O do not smile at sorrow as a jest , with others cares good nature's moved be : And I should weep if you had my unrest , then at my grief how can you merry be ? Ah , where is tender pity now become ? I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . I that have oft the rarest features view'd , and beauty in her best perfection seen , I that have laugh't at them that love pursu'd , and ever free from such perfections been , Lo now at last so cruel is my doom , I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . My heart is full nigh bursting with desire , yet cannot tell from whence these longings flow , My breast does burn , but she that light the fire , I never saw , nor can I come to know : So great a bliss my fortune keeps me from , That though I dearly love , I know not whom . Ere I had twice foure Springs renewed seen , the force of beauty I began to prove , And ere I nine years old had fully been , it taught me how to frame a found of love , And little thought I this day should have come , Before that I to love had found out whom . For on my chin the mossy down you see , and in my veins well heated blood does gloe , Of Summer's I have seen twice three times three , and fast my youthful time away does go : That much I fear , I aged shall become , And still complain , I love I know not whom . O why had I a heart bestow'd on me , to cherish deer affections so inclin'd , Since I am so unhappy born to be , no object for so true a love to find , When I am dead it will be missed of some , Yet now I live , I love I know not whom . I to a thousand beauteous Nymph's am known , a hundred Ladies favours do I swear , I with as many half in love am grown , yet none of them I find can be my deer , Me thinks I have a Mistress yet to come , Which makes me sing , I love I know not whom . The second part , To the same tune . THere lives no swain does stronger passion prove for her , whom most he covets to possess , Then does my heart that being full of love , knows not to whom it may the same profess , For he that is despis'd hath sorrow some , But he hath more , that loves , & knows not whom . Knew I my Love , as many others do , to some one object might my thoughts be bent , So they divided , wandering should not go , until the souls united force be spent , As he that seeks , and never finds a home , Such is my rest , that love , and know not whom . Those whom the frowns of jealous friends divide , may live to meet and descant of their woe , And he hath gain'd a Lady for his Bride , that durst not woo his Maid a while ago : But o what ends unto my hope's can come , That am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Poor Collin grieves that he was late disdain'd , and Clores does for Willies absence pine , Sad Thirthes weeps for his sick Phebe pain'd , but all their sorrows cannot equal mine , A greater care on me , alas , is come , I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Narcissus-like did I affect my shade , some shadow yet I had to dote upon , Or did I love some Image of the dead , whose substance had not breathed long ago , I might despair , and so and end would come . But o I love , and cannot tell with whom . Once in a dream me thought my love I view'd , but never waking could her face behold , And doubtless that resemblance was but shew'd , that more my tired heart torment it should . For since that time more griev'd I am become , And more in love , I cannot tell with whom . When on my bed at night to rest I lie , my watchful eyes with tears bedew my cheeks , And then , o would it once were day I cry , yet when it comes I am as far to seek , For who can tell , though all the earth he room , Or when or where , to find he knows not whom . O if she be among the beauteous trains , of all the Nymph's that haunt the several Kills , Or if you know her Ladies of the plains , or you that have your Bowers on the Hills , Tell , if you can , who will my love become , Or I shall die , and never know for whom . Printed at London for J. Wright dwelling in Gilt-spur street near New-gate . FINIS . And Excellent Son OR , The Swains complaint , whose cruel doom , It was to love he knew not whom . To the tune of , Bodkins Galliard . YOu gentle Nymph's that on the Meadows play , and oft relate the Loves of Shepherds young , Come fit you down , if that you please to stay , now may you hear and uncouth passion Song : A Lad there is , and I am that poor groom , That's fal'n in love , and cannot tell with whom . O do not smile at sorrow as a jest , with others cares good nature's moved be : And I should weep if you had my unrest , then at my grief how can you merry be ? Ah , where is tender pity now become ? I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . I that have oft the rarest features view'd , and beauty in her best perfection seen , I that have laugh't at them that love pursu'd , and ever free from such perfections been , Lo now at last so cruel is my doom , I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . My heart is full nigh bursting with desire , yet cannot tell from whence these longings flow , My breast does burn , but she that light the fire , I never saw , nor can I come to know : So great a bliss my fortune keeps me from , That though I dearly love , I know not whom . Ere I had twice foure Springs renewed seen , the force of beauty I began to prove , And ere I nine years old had fully been , it taught me how to frame a found of love , And little thought I this day should have come , Before that I to love had found out whom . For on my chin the mossy down you see , and in my veins well heated blood does gloe , Of Summer's I have seen twice three times three , and fast my youthful time away does go : That much I fear , I aged shall become , And still complain , I love I know not whom . O why had I a heart bestow'd on me , to cherish deer affections so inclin'd , Since I am so unhappy born to be , no object for so true a love to find , When I am dead it will be missed of some , Yet now I live , I love I know not whom . I to a thousand beauteous Nymph's am known , a hundred Ladies favours do I swear , I with as many half in love am grown , yet none of them I find can be my deer , Me thinks I have a Mistress yet to come , Which makes me sing , I love I know not whom . The second part , To the same tune . THere lives no swain does stronger passion prove for her , whom most he covets to possess , Then does my heart that being full of love , knows not to whom it may the same profess , For he that is despis'd hath sorrow some , But he hath more , that loves , & knows not whom . Knew I my Love , as many others do , to some one object might my thoughts be bent , So they divided , wandering should not go , until the souls united force be spent , As he that seeks , and never finds a home , Such is my rest , that love , and know not whom . Those whom the frowns of jealous friends divide , may live to meet and descant of their woe , And he hath gain'd a Lady for his Bride , that durst not woo his Maid a while ago : But o what ends unto my hope's can come , That am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Poor Collin grieves that he was late disdain'd , and Clores does for Willies absence pine , Sad Thirthes weeps for his sick Phebe pain'd , but all their sorrows cannot equal mine , A greater care on me , alas , is come , I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Narcissus-like did I affect my shade , some shadow yet I had to dote upon , Or did I love some Image of the dead , whose substance had not breathed long ago , I might despair , and so and end would come . But o I love , and cannot tell with whom . Once in a dream me thought my love I view'd , but never waking could her face behold , And doubtless that resemblance was but shew'd , that more my tired heart torment it should . For since that time more griev'd I am become , And more in love , I cannot tell with whom . When on my bed at night to rest I lie , my watchful eyes with tears bedew my cheeks , And then , o would it once were day I cry , yet when it comes I am as far to seek , For who can tell , though all the earth he room , Or when or where , to find he knows not whom . O if she be among the beauteous trains , of all the Nymph's that haunt the several Kills , Or if you know her Ladies of the plains , or you that have your Bowers on the Hills , Tell , if you can , who will my love become , Or I shall die , and never know for whom . Printed at London for J. Wright dwelling in Gilt-spur street near New-gate . FINIS . And Excellent Son OR , The Swains complaint , whose cruel doom , It was to love he knew not whom . To the tune of , Bodkins Galliard . YOu gentle Nymph's that on the Meadows play , and oft relate the Loves of Shepherds young , Come fit you down , if that you please to stay , now may you hear and uncouth passion Song : A Lad there is , and I am that poor groom , That's fal'n in love , and cannot tell with whom . O do not smile at sorrow as a jest , with others cares good nature's moved be : And I should weep if you had my unrest , then at my grief how can you merry be ? Ah , where is tender pity now become ? I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . I that have oft the rarest features view'd , and beauty in her best perfection seen , I that have laugh't at them that love pursu'd , and ever free from such perfections been , Lo now at last so cruel is my doom , I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . My heart is full nigh bursting with desire , yet cannot tell from whence these longings flow , My breast does burn , but she that light the fire , I never saw , nor can I come to know : So great a bliss my fortune keeps me from , That though I dearly love , I know not whom . Ere I had twice foure Springs renewed seen , the force of beauty I began to prove , And ere I nine years old had fully been , it taught me how to frame a found of love , And little thought I this day should have come , Before that I to love had found out whom . For on my chin the mossy down you see , and in my veins well heated blood does gloe , Of Summer's I have seen twice three times three , and fast my youthful time away does go : That much I fear , I aged shall become , And still complain , I love I know not whom . O why had I a heart bestow'd on me , to cherish deer affections so inclin'd , Since I am so unhappy born to be , no object for so true a love to find , When I am dead it will be missed of some , Yet now I live , I love I know not whom . I to a thousand beauteous Nymph's am known , a hundred Ladies favours do I swear , I with as many half in love am grown , yet none of them I find can be my deer , Me thinks I have a Mistress yet to come , Which makes me sing , I love I know not whom . The second part , To the same tune . THere lives no swain does stronger passion prove for her , whom most he covets to possess , Then does my heart that being full of love , knows not to whom it may the same profess , For he that is despis'd hath sorrow some , But he hath more , that loves , & knows not whom . Knew I my Love , as many others do , to some one object might my thoughts be bent , So they divided , wandering should not go , until the souls united force be spent , As he that seeks , and never finds a home , Such is my rest , that love , and know not whom . Those whom the frowns of jealous friends divide , may live to meet and descant of their woe , And he hath gain'd a Lady for his Bride , that durst not woo his Maid a while ago : But o what ends unto my hope's can come , That am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Poor Collin grieves that he was late disdain'd , and Clores does for Willies absence pine , Sad Thirthes weeps for his sick Phebe pain'd , but all their sorrows cannot equal mine , A greater care on me , alas , is come , I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Narcissus-like did I affect my shade , some shadow yet I had to dote upon , Or did I love some Image of the dead , whose substance had not breathed long ago , I might despair , and so and end would come . But o I love , and cannot tell with whom . Once in a dream me thought my love I view'd , but never waking could her face behold , And doubtless that resemblance was but shew'd , that more my tired heart torment it should . For since that time more griev'd I am become , And more in love , I cannot tell with whom . When on my bed at night to rest I lie , my watchful eyes with tears bedew my cheeks , And then , o would it once were day I cry , yet when it comes I am as far to seek , For who can tell , though all the earth he room , Or when or where , to find he knows not whom . O if she be among the beauteous trains , of all the Nymph's that haunt the several Kills , Or if you know her Ladies of the plains , or you that have your Bowers on the Hills , Tell , if you can , who will my love become , Or I shall die , and never know for whom . Printed at London for J. Wright dwelling in Gilt-spur street near New-gate . FINIS . 