THE FOX-CHACE : OR , The Huntsmens Harmony , BY THE Noble Duke of Buckingham's Hounds , etc To and excellent Tune much in Request . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . ALl in a Morning fair As I road to take the Air , [ ? ] eared some hollow most clearly ; I drew my self nigher , To listen who they were [ ? ] tO were going a Hunting so early . I saw they were Gentlemen Who belong'd to the Duke of Buckingham , [ ? ] at were going to make there a Trial ; [ TO ] oh run the Hounds of the North , B [ e ] ing of such Fame and Worth , [ ? ] worser has not the like , without all Denial . Then in Wreckledale Scrogs We threw off our Dogs , [ ? ] Place where her Lying was likely ; But the like ne'r was seen Since a Huntsman I have been , [ ? ] r Hounds found a Fox more quickly . There was Dido and Spanker , And Younker was there . And Ruler , that ne'r looks behind him ; There was Rose and Bonny Lass , Who were always in the Chase : These were part of the Hounds that did find him . Mr. Tybbals cries , Away , Hark away , hark away . With that our Foot-huntsmen did hear him : Tom Mossman cries , Codsounds , Uncouple all your Hounds , Or else we shall never come near him . Then Caper , and Countess , And Comley were thrown off , With Famous , Thumper and Crier , And several good Hounds beside , Whose Stoutness their was try'd , And not one in the Pack that did tire . Our Hounds came in apace , And we fell into a Chase ; And thus we pursu'd this poor Creature , With English and French Horns We encourag'd our Hounds this Morn , And our Cry it was greater and greater . It could not be expressed Which Hound ran the best , For they ran on a breast all together ; They ran at such a rate , As you have not herd of late When they enjoy'd him o're the Valleys together . Then to the Moor he twin'd , Being clean against the Wind , Thinking he might ha' cross'd it over ; But our Hounds ran so hard They made this Fox afraid , And forc'd him to return to his Cover . Up the Hills he runs along , And his Cover was full strong , [ ? ] I think he had no great Ease on't , For they ran with such a Cry , That their Echoes made him fly ; [ ? ] I'll assure you our Sport it was pleasant . Then homeward he hies , And in Wreckledale he lies , Thinking the Wind it might save him ; But our Hounds ran him so near That they posted him with Fear , And our Horsemen they did deceive him : For Squire Whitcliffe road amain , And he whipped it o're the Plain ; Mr. Watson his Horse did not favour ; They road up the highest Hills , And down the steepest Dales , Expecting his Life for their Labour . Mr. Tybbals road his Part ; Although this Chase was smart . Default they were at seldom or never ; But ever by and by To the Hounds he would cry , Halloo , halloo , halloo ; Hark away all together . Tom Mossman he road short , Yet he help'd us in our Sport , For he came in both Cursing and Swearing ; But when it was in his Pow'r , He cry'd out , That's our Lily , Whore : Hark to Caper-man ; now Slaughterman runs near him . Then to Skipland Wood he goes , Being pursued by his Foes ; Our Company soon after him did follow ; And Untarpage there we had , Which made our Huntsmens Hearts full glad , For we gave him many a Holloo . So the Sport was almost done , And the Chase was almost run , He thought to ha' cross'd the River ; But our Hounds being in , They afore him did swim , And so they destroy'd him for ever . Then Leppin took a Horn , As good as e're was blown , Tom Mossman bid him wind his Death then ; The Country People all Came flocking to his Fallen : This was Honour enough for a French Man. So Whoo-up we proclaim'd , God bless the Noble Duke of Buckingham : For our Hounds then had gain'd much Glory ; This was the sixth Fox , That we kill'd above the Rocks ; And there is and end of the Story . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and Lon [ e ] den-bridge THE FOX-CHACE : OR , The Huntsmens Harmony , BY THE Noble Duke of Buckingham's Hounds , etc To and excellent Tune much in Request . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . ALl in a Morning fair As I road to take the Air , [ ? ] eared some hollow most clearly ; I drew my self nigher , To listen who they were [ ? ] tO were going a Hunting so early . I saw they were Gentlemen Who belong'd to the Duke of Buckingham , [ ? ] at were going to make there a Trial ; [ TO ] oh run the Hounds of the North , B [ e ] ing of such Fame and Worth , [ ? ] worser has not the like , without all Denial . Then in Wreckledale Scrogs We threw off our Dogs , [ ? ] Place where her Lying was likely ; But the like ne'r was seen Since a Huntsman I have been , [ ? ] r Hounds found a Fox more quickly . There was Dido and Spanker , And Younker was there . And Ruler , that ne'r looks behind him ; There was Rose and Bonny Lass , Who were always in the Chase : These were part of the Hounds that did find him . Mr. Tybbals cries , Away , Hark away , hark away . With that our Foot-huntsmen did hear him : Tom Mossman cries , Codsounds , Uncouple all your Hounds , Or else we shall never come near him . Then Caper , and Countess , And Comley were thrown off , With Famous , Thumper and Crier , And several good Hounds beside , Whose Stoutness their was try'd , And not one in the Pack that did tire . Our Hounds came in apace , And we fell into a Chase ; And thus we pursu'd this poor Creature , With English and French Horns We encourag'd our Hounds this Morn , And our Cry it was greater and greater . It could not be expressed Which Hound ran the best , For they ran on a breast all together ; They ran at such a rate , As you have not herd of late When they enjoy'd him o're the Valleys together . Then to the Moor he twin'd , Being clean against the Wind , Thinking he might ha' cross'd it over ; But our Hounds ran so hard They made this Fox afraid , And forc'd him to return to his Cover . Up the Hills he runs along , And his Cover was full strong , [ ? ] I think he had no great Ease on't , For they ran with such a Cry , That their Echoes made him fly ; [ ? ] I'll assure you our Sport it was pleasant . Then homeward he hies , And in Wreckledale he lies , Thinking the Wind it might save him ; But our Hounds ran him so near That they posted him with Fear , And our Horsemen they did deceive him : For Squire Whitcliffe road amain , And he whipped it o're the Plain ; Mr. Watson his Horse did not favour ; They road up the highest Hills , And down the steepest Dales , Expecting his Life for their Labour . Mr. Tybbals road his Part ; Although this Chase was smart . Default they were at seldom or never ; But ever by and by To the Hounds he would cry , Halloo , halloo , halloo ; Hark away all together . Tom Mossman he road short , Yet he help'd us in our Sport , For he came in both Cursing and Swearing ; But when it was in his Pow'r , He cry'd out , That's our Lily , Whore : Hark to Caper-man ; now Slaughterman runs near him . Then to Skipland Wood he goes , Being pursued by his Foes ; Our Company soon after him did follow ; And Untarpage there we had , Which made our Huntsmens Hearts full glad , For we gave him many a Holloo . So the Sport was almost done , And the Chase was almost run , He thought to ha' cross'd the River ; But our Hounds being in , They afore him did swim , And so they destroy'd him for ever . Then Leppin took a Horn , As good as e're was blown , Tom Mossman bid him wind his Death then ; The Country People all Came flocking to his Fallen : This was Honour enough for a French Man. So Whoo-up we proclaim'd , God bless the Noble Duke of Buckingham : For our Hounds then had gain'd much Glory ; This was the sixth Fox , That we kill'd above the Rocks ; And there is and end of the Story . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and Lon [ e ] den-bridge THE FOX-CHACE : OR , The Huntsmens Harmony , BY THE Noble Duke of Buckingham's Hounds , etc To and excellent Tune much in Request . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . ALl in a Morning fair As I road to take the Air , [ ? ] eared some hollow most clearly ; I drew my self nigher , To listen who they were [ ? ] tO were going a Hunting so early . I saw they were Gentlemen Who belong'd to the Duke of Buckingham , [ ? ] at were going to make there a Trial ; [ TO ] oh run the Hounds of the North , B [ e ] ing of such Fame and Worth , [ ? ] worser has not the like , without all Denial . Then in Wreckledale Scrogs We threw off our Dogs , [ ? ] Place where her Lying was likely ; But the like ne'r was seen Since a Huntsman I have been , [ ? ] r Hounds found a Fox more quickly . There was Dido and Spanker , And Younker was there . And Ruler , that ne'r looks behind him ; There was Rose and Bonny Lass , Who were always in the Chase : These were part of the Hounds that did find him . Mr. Tybbals cries , Away , Hark away , hark away . With that our Foot-huntsmen did hear him : Tom Mossman cries , Codsounds , Uncouple all your Hounds , Or else we shall never come near him . Then Caper , and Countess , And Comley were thrown off , With Famous , Thumper and Crier , And several good Hounds beside , Whose Stoutness their was try'd , And not one in the Pack that did tire . Our Hounds came in apace , And we fell into a Chase ; And thus we pursu'd this poor Creature , With English and French Horns We encourag'd our Hounds this Morn , And our Cry it was greater and greater . It could not be expressed Which Hound ran the best , For they ran on a breast all together ; They ran at such a rate , As you have not herd of late When they enjoy'd him o're the Valleys together . Then to the Moor he twin'd , Being clean against the Wind , Thinking he might ha' cross'd it over ; But our Hounds ran so hard They made this Fox afraid , And forc'd him to return to his Cover . Up the Hills he runs along , And his Cover was full strong , [ ? ] I think he had no great Ease on't , For they ran with such a Cry , That their Echoes made him fly ; [ ? ] I'll assure you our Sport it was pleasant . Then homeward he hies , And in Wreckledale he lies , Thinking the Wind it might save him ; But our Hounds ran him so near That they posted him with Fear , And our Horsemen they did deceive him : For Squire Whitcliffe road amain , And he whipped it o're the Plain ; Mr. Watson his Horse did not favour ; They road up the highest Hills , And down the steepest Dales , Expecting his Life for their Labour . Mr. Tybbals road his Part ; Although this Chase was smart . Default they were at seldom or never ; But ever by and by To the Hounds he would cry , Halloo , halloo , halloo ; Hark away all together . Tom Mossman he road short , Yet he help'd us in our Sport , For he came in both Cursing and Swearing ; But when it was in his Pow'r , He cry'd out , That's our Lily , Whore : Hark to Caper-man ; now Slaughterman runs near him . Then to Skipland Wood he goes , Being pursued by his Foes ; Our Company soon after him did follow ; And Untarpage there we had , Which made our Huntsmens Hearts full glad , For we gave him many a Holloo . So the Sport was almost done , And the Chase was almost run , He thought to ha' cross'd the River ; But our Hounds being in , They afore him did swim , And so they destroy'd him for ever . Then Leppin took a Horn , As good as e're was blown , Tom Mossman bid him wind his Death then ; The Country People all Came flocking to his Fallen : This was Honour enough for a French Man. So Whoo-up we proclaim'd , God bless the Noble Duke of Buckingham : For our Hounds then had gain'd much Glory ; This was the sixth Fox , That we kill'd above the Rocks ; And there is and end of the Story . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and Lon [ e ] den-bridge THE FOX-CHACE : OR , The Huntsmens Harmony , BY THE Noble Duke of Buckingham's Hounds , etc To and excellent Tune much in Request . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . ALl in a Morning fair As I road to take the Air , [ ? ] eared some hollow most clearly ; I drew my self nigher , To listen who they were [ ? ] tO were going a Hunting so early . I saw they were Gentlemen Who belong'd to the Duke of Buckingham , [ ? ] at were going to make there a Trial ; [ TO ] oh run the Hounds of the North , B [ e ] ing of such Fame and Worth , [ ? ] worser has not the like , without all Denial . Then in Wreckledale Scrogs We threw off our Dogs , [ ? ] Place where her Lying was likely ; But the like ne'r was seen Since a Huntsman I have been , [ ? ] r Hounds found a Fox more quickly . There was Dido and Spanker , And Younker was there . And Ruler , that ne'r looks behind him ; There was Rose and Bonny Lass , Who were always in the Chase : These were part of the Hounds that did find him . Mr. Tybbals cries , Away , Hark away , hark away . With that our Foot-huntsmen did hear him : Tom Mossman cries , Codsounds , Uncouple all your Hounds , Or else we shall never come near him . Then Caper , and Countess , And Comley were thrown off , With Famous , Thumper and Crier , And several good Hounds beside , Whose Stoutness their was try'd , And not one in the Pack that did tire . Our Hounds came in apace , And we fell into a Chase ; And thus we pursu'd this poor Creature , With English and French Horns We encourag'd our Hounds this Morn , And our Cry it was greater and greater . It could not be expressed Which Hound ran the best , For they ran on a breast all together ; They ran at such a rate , As you have not herd of late When they enjoy'd him o're the Valleys together . Then to the Moor he twin'd , Being clean against the Wind , Thinking he might ha' cross'd it over ; But our Hounds ran so hard They made this Fox afraid , And forc'd him to return to his Cover . Up the Hills he runs along , And his Cover was full strong , [ ? ] I think he had no great Ease on't , For they ran with such a Cry , That their Echoes made him fly ; [ ? ] I'll assure you our Sport it was pleasant . Then homeward he hies , And in Wreckledale he lies , Thinking the Wind it might save him ; But our Hounds ran him so near That they posted him with Fear , And our Horsemen they did deceive him : For Squire Whitcliffe road amain , And he whipped it o're the Plain ; Mr. Watson his Horse did not favour ; They road up the highest Hills , And down the steepest Dales , Expecting his Life for their Labour . Mr. Tybbals road his Part ; Although this Chase was smart . Default they were at seldom or never ; But ever by and by To the Hounds he would cry , Halloo , halloo , halloo ; Hark away all together . Tom Mossman he road short , Yet he help'd us in our Sport , For he came in both Cursing and Swearing ; But when it was in his Pow'r , He cry'd out , That's our Lily , Whore : Hark to Caper-man ; now Slaughterman runs near him . Then to Skipland Wood he goes , Being pursued by his Foes ; Our Company soon after him did follow ; And Untarpage there we had , Which made our Huntsmens Hearts full glad , For we gave him many a Holloo . So the Sport was almost done , And the Chase was almost run , He thought to ha' cross'd the River ; But our Hounds being in , They afore him did swim , And so they destroy'd him for ever . Then Leppin took a Horn , As good as e're was blown , Tom Mossman bid him wind his Death then ; The Country People all Came flocking to his Fallen : This was Honour enough for a French Man. So Whoo-up we proclaim'd , God bless the Noble Duke of Buckingham : For our Hounds then had gain'd much Glory ; This was the sixth Fox , That we kill'd above the Rocks ; And there is and end of the Story . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and Lon [ e ] den-bridge 