A Fair Portion for a Fair Maid : OR , The thrifty Maid of Worstersheere , Who lives at London for a Mark a year ; This Mark was her old Mother's gift , She teaches all Maids how to shift . To the tune of , Gramercy penny . NOw all my Friends are dead and gone , alas what shall betide me , For I poor maid am left alone without a house to hide me : Yet still I'll be of merry cheer , and have kind welcome every where Though I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . I scorn to think of poverty , or wanting food or clothing , I'll be maintained gallantly , and all my life want nothing ; A frolic mind I'll always bear , my poverty shall not appear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Though I am but a silly Wench of country education , Yet I am woo'd by Dutch and French , and almost every nation : Both Spaniards and Italians swear that with their hearts they love me deer , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The Welch the Irish and the Scot , since I came to the City , In love to me are wondrous hight , they tell me I am pretty : Therefore to live I will not fear , for I am sought with many a tear , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . This London is a gallant place to raise a Lasses fortune ; For I that came of simple raze , brave Roarers do importune : I little thought in Wostersheere to find such high preferment here , For I have but a Mark a year , and that my mother gave me . One gives to me perfumed Gloves , the best that he can buy me , Live where I will I have the loves of all that do live nigh me : If any new toys I will wear . I have them cost they ne're so deer , And this is for a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . My fashions with the Moon I change , as though I were a Lady ; All quaint conceits , both new and strange , I'll have as soon as may be ; Your courtly Ladies I can leere , In clothes but few to me come near , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The second Part To the same Tune . FRench gowns with sleeves like pudding-bags I have at my requesting : Now I forget my country rags , and scorn such plain investing : My old acquaintance I casheere , and of my kin I hate to hear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . My Petticoats of Scarlet brave , of Velvet , silk and Satin : Some students oft my love do crave , that speak both Greek and Latin , The Soldiers for me domineer , and put the rest into great fear , All this is for a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The Precisian sincerely woes , and does protest he loves me , He tires me out with Ies and noah's , and to impatience moves me : Although and oath he will not swear , to lie at no time he does fear , All this is for a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me My Coach drawn with foure Flanders mares each day attends my pleasure , The Watermen will leave their fares to wait upon my leisure : Two Lackeys labour every where , and at my word run far and near , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . I'th pleasant'st place the Suburbs yields , my lodging is prepared : I can walk forth into the fields , where beauty's oft are aired ; When Gentlemen do spy me there , some compliments I'me sure to hear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Now if my friends were living still , I would them all abandon , Though I confess they lov'd me well , yet I so like of London , That farewell Dad and Mammy deer , and all my friends in Worstershire : I live well with a Mark a year , Which my old mother gave me . I would my sister Sue at home , knew how I live in fashion , That she might up to London come to learn this occupation : For I live like a Lady here , I wear good clothes and eat good cheer Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Now blessed be that happy day that I came to the City ; And for the Carrier will I pray , before I end my Ditty . You Maidens that this Ditty hear , though means be short , yet never fear , For I live with a Mark a year , Which my old mother gave me . FINIS . M.P. London Printed for F.G. A Fair Portion for a Fair Maid : OR , The thrifty Maid of Worstersheere , Who lives at London for a Mark a year ; This Mark was her old Mother's gift , She teaches all Maids how to shift . To the tune of , Gramercy penny . NOw all my Friends are dead and gone , alas what shall betide me , For I poor maid am left alone without a house to hide me : Yet still I'll be of merry cheer , and have kind welcome every where Though I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . I scorn to think of poverty , or wanting food or clothing , I'll be maintained gallantly , and all my life want nothing ; A frolic mind I'll always bear , my poverty shall not appear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Though I am but a silly Wench of country education , Yet I am woo'd by Dutch and French , and almost every nation : Both Spaniards and Italians swear that with their hearts they love me deer , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The Welch the Irish and the Scot , since I came to the City , In love to me are wondrous hight , they tell me I am pretty : Therefore to live I will not fear , for I am sought with many a tear , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . This London is a gallant place to raise a Lasses fortune ; For I that came of simple raze , brave Roarers do importune : I little thought in Wostersheere to find such high preferment here , For I have but a Mark a year , and that my mother gave me . One gives to me perfumed Gloves , the best that he can buy me , Live where I will I have the loves of all that do live nigh me : If any new toys I will wear . I have them cost they ne're so deer , And this is for a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . My fashions with the Moon I change , as though I were a Lady ; All quaint conceits , both new and strange , I'll have as soon as may be ; Your courtly Ladies I can leere , In clothes but few to me come near , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The second Part To the same Tune . FRench gowns with sleeves like pudding-bags I have at my requesting : Now I forget my country rags , and scorn such plain investing : My old acquaintance I casheere , and of my kin I hate to hear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . My Petticoats of Scarlet brave , of Velvet , silk and Satin : Some students oft my love do crave , that speak both Greek and Latin , The Soldiers for me domineer , and put the rest into great fear , All this is for a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The Precisian sincerely woes , and does protest he loves me , He tires me out with Ies and noah's , and to impatience moves me : Although and oath he will not swear , to lie at no time he does fear , All this is for a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me My Coach drawn with foure Flanders mares each day attends my pleasure , The Watermen will leave their fares to wait upon my leisure : Two Lackeys labour every where , and at my word run far and near , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . I'th pleasant'st place the Suburbs yields , my lodging is prepared : I can walk forth into the fields , where beauty's oft are aired ; When Gentlemen do spy me there , some compliments I'me sure to hear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Now if my friends were living still , I would them all abandon , Though I confess they lov'd me well , yet I so like of London , That farewell Dad and Mammy deer , and all my friends in Worstershire : I live well with a Mark a year , Which my old mother gave me . I would my sister Sue at home , knew how I live in fashion , That she might up to London come to learn this occupation : For I live like a Lady here , I wear good clothes and eat good cheer Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Now blessed be that happy day that I came to the City ; And for the Carrier will I pray , before I end my Ditty . You Maidens that this Ditty hear , though means be short , yet never fear , For I live with a Mark a year , Which my old mother gave me . FINIS . M.P. London Printed for F.G. A Fair Portion for a Fair Maid : OR , The thrifty Maid of Worstersheere , Who lives at London for a Mark a year ; This Mark was her old Mother's gift , She teaches all Maids how to shift . To the tune of , Gramercy penny . NOw all my Friends are dead and gone , alas what shall betide me , For I poor maid am left alone without a house to hide me : Yet still I'll be of merry cheer , and have kind welcome every where Though I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . I scorn to think of poverty , or wanting food or clothing , I'll be maintained gallantly , and all my life want nothing ; A frolic mind I'll always bear , my poverty shall not appear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Though I am but a silly Wench of country education , Yet I am woo'd by Dutch and French , and almost every nation : Both Spaniards and Italians swear that with their hearts they love me deer , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The Welch the Irish and the Scot , since I came to the City , In love to me are wondrous hight , they tell me I am pretty : Therefore to live I will not fear , for I am sought with many a tear , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . This London is a gallant place to raise a Lasses fortune ; For I that came of simple raze , brave Roarers do importune : I little thought in Wostersheere to find such high preferment here , For I have but a Mark a year , and that my mother gave me . One gives to me perfumed Gloves , the best that he can buy me , Live where I will I have the loves of all that do live nigh me : If any new toys I will wear . I have them cost they ne're so deer , And this is for a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . My fashions with the Moon I change , as though I were a Lady ; All quaint conceits , both new and strange , I'll have as soon as may be ; Your courtly Ladies I can leere , In clothes but few to me come near , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The second Part To the same Tune . FRench gowns with sleeves like pudding-bags I have at my requesting : Now I forget my country rags , and scorn such plain investing : My old acquaintance I casheere , and of my kin I hate to hear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . My Petticoats of Scarlet brave , of Velvet , silk and Satin : Some students oft my love do crave , that speak both Greek and Latin , The Soldiers for me domineer , and put the rest into great fear , All this is for a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The Precisian sincerely woes , and does protest he loves me , He tires me out with Ies and noah's , and to impatience moves me : Although and oath he will not swear , to lie at no time he does fear , All this is for a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me My Coach drawn with foure Flanders mares each day attends my pleasure , The Watermen will leave their fares to wait upon my leisure : Two Lackeys labour every where , and at my word run far and near , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . I'th pleasant'st place the Suburbs yields , my lodging is prepared : I can walk forth into the fields , where beauty's oft are aired ; When Gentlemen do spy me there , some compliments I'me sure to hear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Now if my friends were living still , I would them all abandon , Though I confess they lov'd me well , yet I so like of London , That farewell Dad and Mammy deer , and all my friends in Worstershire : I live well with a Mark a year , Which my old mother gave me . I would my sister Sue at home , knew how I live in fashion , That she might up to London come to learn this occupation : For I live like a Lady here , I wear good clothes and eat good cheer Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Now blessed be that happy day that I came to the City ; And for the Carrier will I pray , before I end my Ditty . You Maidens that this Ditty hear , though means be short , yet never fear , For I live with a Mark a year , Which my old mother gave me . FINIS . M.P. London Printed for F.G. A Fair Portion for a Fair Maid : OR , The thrifty Maid of Worstersheere , Who lives at London for a Mark a year ; This Mark was her old Mother's gift , She teaches all Maids how to shift . To the tune of , Gramercy penny . NOw all my Friends are dead and gone , alas what shall betide me , For I poor maid am left alone without a house to hide me : Yet still I'll be of merry cheer , and have kind welcome every where Though I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . I scorn to think of poverty , or wanting food or clothing , I'll be maintained gallantly , and all my life want nothing ; A frolic mind I'll always bear , my poverty shall not appear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Though I am but a silly Wench of country education , Yet I am woo'd by Dutch and French , and almost every nation : Both Spaniards and Italians swear that with their hearts they love me deer , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The Welch the Irish and the Scot , since I came to the City , In love to me are wondrous hight , they tell me I am pretty : Therefore to live I will not fear , for I am sought with many a tear , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . This London is a gallant place to raise a Lasses fortune ; For I that came of simple raze , brave Roarers do importune : I little thought in Wostersheere to find such high preferment here , For I have but a Mark a year , and that my mother gave me . One gives to me perfumed Gloves , the best that he can buy me , Live where I will I have the loves of all that do live nigh me : If any new toys I will wear . I have them cost they ne're so deer , And this is for a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . My fashions with the Moon I change , as though I were a Lady ; All quaint conceits , both new and strange , I'll have as soon as may be ; Your courtly Ladies I can leere , In clothes but few to me come near , Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The second Part To the same Tune . FRench gowns with sleeves like pudding-bags I have at my requesting : Now I forget my country rags , and scorn such plain investing : My old acquaintance I casheere , and of my kin I hate to hear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . My Petticoats of Scarlet brave , of Velvet , silk and Satin : Some students oft my love do crave , that speak both Greek and Latin , The Soldiers for me domineer , and put the rest into great fear , All this is for a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . The Precisian sincerely woes , and does protest he loves me , He tires me out with Ies and noah's , and to impatience moves me : Although and oath he will not swear , to lie at no time he does fear , All this is for a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me My Coach drawn with foure Flanders mares each day attends my pleasure , The Watermen will leave their fares to wait upon my leisure : Two Lackeys labour every where , and at my word run far and near , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . I'th pleasant'st place the Suburbs yields , my lodging is prepared : I can walk forth into the fields , where beauty's oft are aired ; When Gentlemen do spy me there , some compliments I'me sure to hear , Though I have but a mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Now if my friends were living still , I would them all abandon , Though I confess they lov'd me well , yet I so like of London , That farewell Dad and Mammy deer , and all my friends in Worstershire : I live well with a Mark a year , Which my old mother gave me . I would my sister Sue at home , knew how I live in fashion , That she might up to London come to learn this occupation : For I live like a Lady here , I wear good clothes and eat good cheer Yet I have but a Mark a year , And that my mother gave me . Now blessed be that happy day that I came to the City ; And for the Carrier will I pray , before I end my Ditty . You Maidens that this Ditty hear , though means be short , yet never fear , For I live with a Mark a year , Which my old mother gave me . FINIS . M.P. London Printed for F.G. 