Fair fallen all good Tokens . OR , A pleasant new Song not common to be had , Which will teach you to know good tokens from bad . To a pleasant new tune . TO you that have bad tokens , this matter I indight , Yet nothing shall be spoken , that shall your minds afrigh Be silent therefore and stand still , mark what proceedeth from my Quill : I speak of tokens good and ill , and such as are not right . But first I'll have you understand , before that I do pass , That there are many tokens which are not made of brass , It is a token of my love , that I to you this matter move ; For many tokens bad do prove , we see in every place . Yet by all signs and tokens , as I may judge or think , The man that hath lost both his eyes , he cannot choose but wink ; But some will wink when they may see , but that is nothing unto me : Some shut their eyes to have a fee , which are in love with chink . He that hath gain'd much silver , and does possess much gold , It's a token that he shall be rich , if he his substance hold : But he that hath but little store , and spendeth all and something more , It's a token that he shall die poor , to say't you may be bold . He that is a very fool , and wisdom does despise , It's a token that he shall be old if he live till he be wise : And he that hath great store of wit , and makes no right use of it , It's a'token that he is unfit in honour to arise . But this is a bad token , mark well what I shall say : When a young man hath a handsome wife and lets her run astray , It is a token she will be nought , and quickly unto lewdness brought , If that she be no better taught , shee'll bring him to decay . The second part , To the same tune . He that hath a fiery nose , which looks like Claret read ; It's a token then he does consume in drink more then in bred : For if his nose be fiery hight , it's a token that he loves the po He hates small drink and loves it not , he hath not so been fed . Then fair fallen all good tokens , now it comes into mind : Mark which way fits the Weathercock , and that way blows the wind : Mark which way rolls a Wantons eye , and something you may see there by ; Or if you please then you may try , and so the truth may find . He that hath liv'd in wickedness , and does in vice remain , It is a token he hath no care to free his soul from pain : When Conscience does on Crutches creep its a token Truth is lulled asleep , Which makes poor men in dangers deep to call and cry in vain . But this is a token of a truth , which does betoken ill : And angry wife will work much woe , but she will have her will : For if she chance to bend her brow , or seem to look I know not how It's a token she will scold I vow , her tongue will not lie still . But this is a true token , then mark my word arigh When Sol is setting in the West the world will loose her light . So when and old men head grows grey , he may think on his dying day : For to the grave he must away and bid the world good night . He that hath a wandering eye , and loves lewd women deer , It's a token that heel prove a knave : But I'll tell you in your ear For sure you never saw the like a Soldier loves to toss a pike : The Tapster draws but dares not strike which does betoken fear . Then fair fallen all good tokens and well fare a good hear For by all signs and tokens this time for to depar And now it's time to end my song I hope I have done no man wrong : For he that cannot rule his tongue shall feel a greater smart . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . Fair fallen all good Tokens . OR , A pleasant new Song not common to be had , Which will teach you to know good tokens from bad . To a pleasant new tune . TO you that have bad tokens , this matter I indight , Yet nothing shall be spoken , that shall your minds afrigh Be silent therefore and stand still , mark what proceedeth from my Quill : I speak of tokens good and ill , and such as are not right . But first I'll have you understand , before that I do pass , That there are many tokens which are not made of brass , It is a token of my love , that I to you this matter move ; For many tokens bad do prove , we see in every place . Yet by all signs and tokens , as I may judge or think , The man that hath lost both his eyes , he cannot choose but wink ; But some will wink when they may see , but that is nothing unto me : Some shut their eyes to have a fee , which are in love with chink . He that hath gain'd much silver , and does possess much gold , It's a token that he shall be rich , if he his substance hold : But he that hath but little store , and spendeth all and something more , It's a token that he shall die poor , to say't you may be bold . He that is a very fool , and wisdom does despise , It's a token that he shall be old if he live till he be wise : And he that hath great store of wit , and makes no right use of it , It's a'token that he is unfit in honour to arise . But this is a bad token , mark well what I shall say : When a young man hath a handsome wife and lets her run astray , It is a token she will be nought , and quickly unto lewdness brought , If that she be no better taught , shee'll bring him to decay . The second part , To the same tune . He that hath a fiery nose , which looks like Claret read ; It's a token then he does consume in drink more then in bred : For if his nose be fiery hight , it's a token that he loves the po He hates small drink and loves it not , he hath not so been fed . Then fair fallen all good tokens , now it comes into mind : Mark which way fits the Weathercock , and that way blows the wind : Mark which way rolls a Wantons eye , and something you may see there by ; Or if you please then you may try , and so the truth may find . He that hath liv'd in wickedness , and does in vice remain , It is a token he hath no care to free his soul from pain : When Conscience does on Crutches creep its a token Truth is lulled asleep , Which makes poor men in dangers deep to call and cry in vain . But this is a token of a truth , which does betoken ill : And angry wife will work much woe , but she will have her will : For if she chance to bend her brow , or seem to look I know not how It's a token she will scold I vow , her tongue will not lie still . But this is a true token , then mark my word arigh When Sol is setting in the West the world will loose her light . So when and old men head grows grey , he may think on his dying day : For to the grave he must away and bid the world good night . He that hath a wandering eye , and loves lewd women deer , It's a token that heel prove a knave : But I'll tell you in your ear For sure you never saw the like a Soldier loves to toss a pike : The Tapster draws but dares not strike which does betoken fear . Then fair fallen all good tokens and well fare a good hear For by all signs and tokens this time for to depar And now it's time to end my song I hope I have done no man wrong : For he that cannot rule his tongue shall feel a greater smart . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . Fair fallen all good Tokens . OR , A pleasant new Song not common to be had , Which will teach you to know good tokens from bad . To a pleasant new tune . TO you that have bad tokens , this matter I indight , Yet nothing shall be spoken , that shall your minds afrigh Be silent therefore and stand still , mark what proceedeth from my Quill : I speak of tokens good and ill , and such as are not right . But first I'll have you understand , before that I do pass , That there are many tokens which are not made of brass , It is a token of my love , that I to you this matter move ; For many tokens bad do prove , we see in every place . Yet by all signs and tokens , as I may judge or think , The man that hath lost both his eyes , he cannot choose but wink ; But some will wink when they may see , but that is nothing unto me : Some shut their eyes to have a fee , which are in love with chink . He that hath gain'd much silver , and does possess much gold , It's a token that he shall be rich , if he his substance hold : But he that hath but little store , and spendeth all and something more , It's a token that he shall die poor , to say't you may be bold . He that is a very fool , and wisdom does despise , It's a token that he shall be old if he live till he be wise : And he that hath great store of wit , and makes no right use of it , It's a'token that he is unfit in honour to arise . But this is a bad token , mark well what I shall say : When a young man hath a handsome wife and lets her run astray , It is a token she will be nought , and quickly unto lewdness brought , If that she be no better taught , shee'll bring him to decay . The second part , To the same tune . He that hath a fiery nose , which looks like Claret read ; It's a token then he does consume in drink more then in bred : For if his nose be fiery hight , it's a token that he loves the po He hates small drink and loves it not , he hath not so been fed . Then fair fallen all good tokens , now it comes into mind : Mark which way fits the Weathercock , and that way blows the wind : Mark which way rolls a Wantons eye , and something you may see there by ; Or if you please then you may try , and so the truth may find . He that hath liv'd in wickedness , and does in vice remain , It is a token he hath no care to free his soul from pain : When Conscience does on Crutches creep its a token Truth is lulled asleep , Which makes poor men in dangers deep to call and cry in vain . But this is a token of a truth , which does betoken ill : And angry wife will work much woe , but she will have her will : For if she chance to bend her brow , or seem to look I know not how It's a token she will scold I vow , her tongue will not lie still . But this is a true token , then mark my word arigh When Sol is setting in the West the world will loose her light . So when and old men head grows grey , he may think on his dying day : For to the grave he must away and bid the world good night . He that hath a wandering eye , and loves lewd women deer , It's a token that heel prove a knave : But I'll tell you in your ear For sure you never saw the like a Soldier loves to toss a pike : The Tapster draws but dares not strike which does betoken fear . Then fair fallen all good tokens and well fare a good hear For by all signs and tokens this time for to depar And now it's time to end my song I hope I have done no man wrong : For he that cannot rule his tongue shall feel a greater smart . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . Fair fallen all good Tokens . OR , A pleasant new Song not common to be had , Which will teach you to know good tokens from bad . To a pleasant new tune . TO you that have bad tokens , this matter I indight , Yet nothing shall be spoken , that shall your minds afrigh Be silent therefore and stand still , mark what proceedeth from my Quill : I speak of tokens good and ill , and such as are not right . But first I'll have you understand , before that I do pass , That there are many tokens which are not made of brass , It is a token of my love , that I to you this matter move ; For many tokens bad do prove , we see in every place . Yet by all signs and tokens , as I may judge or think , The man that hath lost both his eyes , he cannot choose but wink ; But some will wink when they may see , but that is nothing unto me : Some shut their eyes to have a fee , which are in love with chink . He that hath gain'd much silver , and does possess much gold , It's a token that he shall be rich , if he his substance hold : But he that hath but little store , and spendeth all and something more , It's a token that he shall die poor , to say't you may be bold . He that is a very fool , and wisdom does despise , It's a token that he shall be old if he live till he be wise : And he that hath great store of wit , and makes no right use of it , It's a'token that he is unfit in honour to arise . But this is a bad token , mark well what I shall say : When a young man hath a handsome wife and lets her run astray , It is a token she will be nought , and quickly unto lewdness brought , If that she be no better taught , shee'll bring him to decay . The second part , To the same tune . He that hath a fiery nose , which looks like Claret read ; It's a token then he does consume in drink more then in bred : For if his nose be fiery hight , it's a token that he loves the po He hates small drink and loves it not , he hath not so been fed . Then fair fallen all good tokens , now it comes into mind : Mark which way fits the Weathercock , and that way blows the wind : Mark which way rolls a Wantons eye , and something you may see there by ; Or if you please then you may try , and so the truth may find . He that hath liv'd in wickedness , and does in vice remain , It is a token he hath no care to free his soul from pain : When Conscience does on Crutches creep its a token Truth is lulled asleep , Which makes poor men in dangers deep to call and cry in vain . But this is a token of a truth , which does betoken ill : And angry wife will work much woe , but she will have her will : For if she chance to bend her brow , or seem to look I know not how It's a token she will scold I vow , her tongue will not lie still . But this is a true token , then mark my word arigh When Sol is setting in the West the world will loose her light . So when and old men head grows grey , he may think on his dying day : For to the grave he must away and bid the world good night . He that hath a wandering eye , and loves lewd women deer , It's a token that heel prove a knave : But I'll tell you in your ear For sure you never saw the like a Soldier loves to toss a pike : The Tapster draws but dares not strike which does betoken fear . Then fair fallen all good tokens and well fare a good hear For by all signs and tokens this time for to depar And now it's time to end my song I hope I have done no man wrong : For he that cannot rule his tongue shall feel a greater smart . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . 