The FOUR WONDERS of this Land , Which unto you we will declare : The Lord's great Mercy it is great ; God give us Grace to stand in fear , And watch and pray both Night and Day , That God may give us all his Grace , To repent our Sins then every one , Our Time is going on apace . Tune of Dear Love regard my Grief , etc Licensed according to Order . Sweet England call for Grace , with speed leave off thy since , And with a contrite Heart to Prayers now begin . For sure the time is come , that Christ our Saviour told ; Towards the latter Day , we Wonders shall behold . And now strange Wonders rare , the Lord from Heaven does send In Earth , and in the Air , because we should amend . Great Lights within the Sky hath oft been seen , we hear , To many Peoples view , in Countries far and near . But what it does presage , no Man on Earth do's know : None but the living God such Wonders strange can show . But to the Subject now , which I do mean to write ; The strangest News I'll tell , which Time has brought to light . IN London now does live one Mr. Clark by Name , A Taylor by his Trade , of good Report and Fame . His Wife being with Child , unto her Grief and Woe , She with a Neighbour's Wife fell out ; the Truth is so . And after many Words , to fighting then they go , This Woman being with Child , received a grievous Blow Upon her Belly then , ( which makes my Heart to bleed ) That she went home , and sent for Midwife's help , with speed . In haste the Midwife came , and other Women store , Which by the help of God , she Seven Children boar . Seven dainty Boys she had , all which were born in sighed , All fram'd with perfect Shape , with Joints and Limbs aright . But they were all Stillborn ; which griev'd their Parents soar : But of the Works of God , in this they do deplore . The Woman now does mend , whereby God's Works are known : And now this wondrous News , both far and near is shown . THe second News I tell , comes from brave Yorkshire : A Monster there was born , the like you ne'er did hear . Three Miles from Pomfret lived a Woman of great Worth , In Travail fell , and brought to light a monstrous Birth : Just the shape of a Colt , to all the Peoples sighed ; Which bred Amazement great , with Tears and with Fright , To see this Woman's Grief , and Trouble of her Mind , In bringing forth a Colt , contrary unto kind . Long Legs , round Feet , long Nose , and Headed like a Horse , Which fill'd these Women's Hearts with Pity and Remorse . This Woman now does mend , whereby God's Works are known : And now this wondrous News , both far and near is shown . ANd the third News most rare , the which I have to tell , London can witness true , that there a Monster fell . In Christ-Church Parish lived a Woman known full well , Of honest Carriage , which her Neighbours all can tell . This Woman being with Child , which Grief and Sorrow bred , Into the World she boar a Child without a Head. The Face was in the Breast , to all the Peoples view ; But it died suddenly : this is approved true . It is for certain true , and is approved plain ; From Earth I say it came , and to Earth it turn'd again . These Women now all three are on the mending hand : But Three such monstrous Births was ne'er in fair England . THe Fourth News most rare , the which I have to tell ; In famous Gloucestershire a wondrous Shower fell . Not far from Gloucester Town , a Place is call'd Brandwood , Upon a Hedge of Clothes , for truth , it reigned Blood . A Maid being starching there , as Reason does require , She went to fetch in Wood wherewith to make a Fire : And having on such Cuffs , as Starchers oft do use , Upon them fell some drops of Blood , made her to muse . And holding up her Head , which made her wonder more , She saw the Hedge of Clothes , with Blood besprinkl'd o'er . Then she throw'd down the Wood , and with amazement great She went into the House , and this News did repeat . The People then came forth , and found the News was true ; They saw the Hedge of Clothes with Blood besprinkl'd to their view . Then they took in the Clothes , and wash'd them that same Day ; But Water , Leez , nor Soap , could take the Blood away . We are so wicked grown , the Heavens do for us bleed , And Wonders strange are shown : all this is true indeed . Sodom was warn'd afore , so was Jerusalem , And many Places more , whom God did plague for Sin. But we are like the Jews , our Hearts are now so hard , That we will not believe , nor yet God's Word regard . Now think upon each since , Pride , Whoredom , Drunkenness , Swearing , Deceit , and Lies , and vile Covetousness . Then we shall see our God will take us for his own , If we believe these Signs and Tokens God hath shown . Concluding thus my News : The God of Truth and Peace Grant that the Gospel may continually increase . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The FOUR WONDERS of this Land , Which unto you we will declare : The Lord's great Mercy it is great ; God give us Grace to stand in fear , And watch and pray both Night and Day , That God may give us all his Grace , To repent our Sins then every one , Our Time is going on apace . Tune of Dear Love regard my Grief , etc Licensed according to Order . Sweet England call for Grace , with speed leave off thy since , And with a contrite Heart to Prayers now begin . For sure the time is come , that Christ our Saviour told ; Towards the latter Day , we Wonders shall behold . And now strange Wonders rare , the Lord from Heaven does send In Earth , and in the Air , because we should amend . Great Lights within the Sky hath oft been seen , we hear , To many Peoples view , in Countries far and near . But what it does presage , no Man on Earth do's know : None but the living God such Wonders strange can show . But to the Subject now , which I do mean to write ; The strangest News I'll tell , which Time has brought to light . IN London now does live one Mr. Clark by Name , A Taylor by his Trade , of good Report and Fame . His Wife being with Child , unto her Grief and Woe , She with a Neighbour's Wife fell out ; the Truth is so . And after many Words , to fighting then they go , This Woman being with Child , received a grievous Blow Upon her Belly then , ( which makes my Heart to bleed ) That she went home , and sent for Midwife's help , with speed . In haste the Midwife came , and other Women store , Which by the help of God , she Seven Children boar . Seven dainty Boys she had , all which were born in sighed , All fram'd with perfect Shape , with Joints and Limbs aright . But they were all Stillborn ; which griev'd their Parents soar : But of the Works of God , in this they do deplore . The Woman now does mend , whereby God's Works are known : And now this wondrous News , both far and near is shown . THe second News I tell , comes from brave Yorkshire : A Monster there was born , the like you ne'er did hear . Three Miles from Pomfret lived a Woman of great Worth , In Travail fell , and brought to light a monstrous Birth : Just the shape of a Colt , to all the Peoples sighed ; Which bred Amazement great , with Tears and with Fright , To see this Woman's Grief , and Trouble of her Mind , In bringing forth a Colt , contrary unto kind . Long Legs , round Feet , long Nose , and Headed like a Horse , Which fill'd these Women's Hearts with Pity and Remorse . This Woman now does mend , whereby God's Works are known : And now this wondrous News , both far and near is shown . ANd the third News most rare , the which I have to tell , London can witness true , that there a Monster fell . In Christ-Church Parish lived a Woman known full well , Of honest Carriage , which her Neighbours all can tell . This Woman being with Child , which Grief and Sorrow bred , Into the World she boar a Child without a Head. The Face was in the Breast , to all the Peoples view ; But it died suddenly : this is approved true . It is for certain true , and is approved plain ; From Earth I say it came , and to Earth it turn'd again . These Women now all three are on the mending hand : But Three such monstrous Births was ne'er in fair England . THe Fourth News most rare , the which I have to tell ; In famous Gloucestershire a wondrous Shower fell . Not far from Gloucester Town , a Place is call'd Brandwood , Upon a Hedge of Clothes , for truth , it reigned Blood . A Maid being starching there , as Reason does require , She went to fetch in Wood wherewith to make a Fire : And having on such Cuffs , as Starchers oft do use , Upon them fell some drops of Blood , made her to muse . And holding up her Head , which made her wonder more , She saw the Hedge of Clothes , with Blood besprinkl'd o'er . Then she throw'd down the Wood , and with amazement great She went into the House , and this News did repeat . The People then came forth , and found the News was true ; They saw the Hedge of Clothes with Blood besprinkl'd to their view . Then they took in the Clothes , and wash'd them that same Day ; But Water , Leez , nor Soap , could take the Blood away . We are so wicked grown , the Heavens do for us bleed , And Wonders strange are shown : all this is true indeed . Sodom was warn'd afore , so was Jerusalem , And many Places more , whom God did plague for Sin. But we are like the Jews , our Hearts are now so hard , That we will not believe , nor yet God's Word regard . Now think upon each since , Pride , Whoredom , Drunkenness , Swearing , Deceit , and Lies , and vile Covetousness . Then we shall see our God will take us for his own , If we believe these Signs and Tokens God hath shown . Concluding thus my News : The God of Truth and Peace Grant that the Gospel may continually increase . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The FOUR WONDERS of this Land , Which unto you we will declare : The Lord's great Mercy it is great ; God give us Grace to stand in fear , And watch and pray both Night and Day , That God may give us all his Grace , To repent our Sins then every one , Our Time is going on apace . Tune of Dear Love regard my Grief , etc Licensed according to Order . Sweet England call for Grace , with speed leave off thy since , And with a contrite Heart to Prayers now begin . For sure the time is come , that Christ our Saviour told ; Towards the latter Day , we Wonders shall behold . And now strange Wonders rare , the Lord from Heaven does send In Earth , and in the Air , because we should amend . Great Lights within the Sky hath oft been seen , we hear , To many Peoples view , in Countries far and near . But what it does presage , no Man on Earth do's know : None but the living God such Wonders strange can show . But to the Subject now , which I do mean to write ; The strangest News I'll tell , which Time has brought to light . IN London now does live one Mr. Clark by Name , A Taylor by his Trade , of good Report and Fame . His Wife being with Child , unto her Grief and Woe , She with a Neighbour's Wife fell out ; the Truth is so . And after many Words , to fighting then they go , This Woman being with Child , received a grievous Blow Upon her Belly then , ( which makes my Heart to bleed ) That she went home , and sent for Midwife's help , with speed . In haste the Midwife came , and other Women store , Which by the help of God , she Seven Children boar . Seven dainty Boys she had , all which were born in sighed , All fram'd with perfect Shape , with Joints and Limbs aright . But they were all Stillborn ; which griev'd their Parents soar : But of the Works of God , in this they do deplore . The Woman now does mend , whereby God's Works are known : And now this wondrous News , both far and near is shown . THe second News I tell , comes from brave Yorkshire : A Monster there was born , the like you ne'er did hear . Three Miles from Pomfret lived a Woman of great Worth , In Travail fell , and brought to light a monstrous Birth : Just the shape of a Colt , to all the Peoples sighed ; Which bred Amazement great , with Tears and with Fright , To see this Woman's Grief , and Trouble of her Mind , In bringing forth a Colt , contrary unto kind . Long Legs , round Feet , long Nose , and Headed like a Horse , Which fill'd these Women's Hearts with Pity and Remorse . This Woman now does mend , whereby God's Works are known : And now this wondrous News , both far and near is shown . ANd the third News most rare , the which I have to tell , London can witness true , that there a Monster fell . In Christ-Church Parish lived a Woman known full well , Of honest Carriage , which her Neighbours all can tell . This Woman being with Child , which Grief and Sorrow bred , Into the World she boar a Child without a Head. The Face was in the Breast , to all the Peoples view ; But it died suddenly : this is approved true . It is for certain true , and is approved plain ; From Earth I say it came , and to Earth it turn'd again . These Women now all three are on the mending hand : But Three such monstrous Births was ne'er in fair England . THe Fourth News most rare , the which I have to tell ; In famous Gloucestershire a wondrous Shower fell . Not far from Gloucester Town , a Place is call'd Brandwood , Upon a Hedge of Clothes , for truth , it reigned Blood . A Maid being starching there , as Reason does require , She went to fetch in Wood wherewith to make a Fire : And having on such Cuffs , as Starchers oft do use , Upon them fell some drops of Blood , made her to muse . And holding up her Head , which made her wonder more , She saw the Hedge of Clothes , with Blood besprinkl'd o'er . Then she throw'd down the Wood , and with amazement great She went into the House , and this News did repeat . The People then came forth , and found the News was true ; They saw the Hedge of Clothes with Blood besprinkl'd to their view . Then they took in the Clothes , and wash'd them that same Day ; But Water , Leez , nor Soap , could take the Blood away . We are so wicked grown , the Heavens do for us bleed , And Wonders strange are shown : all this is true indeed . Sodom was warn'd afore , so was Jerusalem , And many Places more , whom God did plague for Sin. But we are like the Jews , our Hearts are now so hard , That we will not believe , nor yet God's Word regard . Now think upon each since , Pride , Whoredom , Drunkenness , Swearing , Deceit , and Lies , and vile Covetousness . Then we shall see our God will take us for his own , If we believe these Signs and Tokens God hath shown . Concluding thus my News : The God of Truth and Peace Grant that the Gospel may continually increase . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The FOUR WONDERS of this Land , Which unto you we will declare : The Lord's great Mercy it is great ; God give us Grace to stand in fear , And watch and pray both Night and Day , That God may give us all his Grace , To repent our Sins then every one , Our Time is going on apace . Tune of Dear Love regard my Grief , etc Licensed according to Order . Sweet England call for Grace , with speed leave off thy since , And with a contrite Heart to Prayers now begin . For sure the time is come , that Christ our Saviour told ; Towards the latter Day , we Wonders shall behold . And now strange Wonders rare , the Lord from Heaven does send In Earth , and in the Air , because we should amend . Great Lights within the Sky hath oft been seen , we hear , To many Peoples view , in Countries far and near . But what it does presage , no Man on Earth do's know : None but the living God such Wonders strange can show . But to the Subject now , which I do mean to write ; The strangest News I'll tell , which Time has brought to light . IN London now does live one Mr. Clark by Name , A Taylor by his Trade , of good Report and Fame . His Wife being with Child , unto her Grief and Woe , She with a Neighbour's Wife fell out ; the Truth is so . And after many Words , to fighting then they go , This Woman being with Child , received a grievous Blow Upon her Belly then , ( which makes my Heart to bleed ) That she went home , and sent for Midwife's help , with speed . In haste the Midwife came , and other Women store , Which by the help of God , she Seven Children boar . Seven dainty Boys she had , all which were born in sighed , All fram'd with perfect Shape , with Joints and Limbs aright . But they were all Stillborn ; which griev'd their Parents soar : But of the Works of God , in this they do deplore . The Woman now does mend , whereby God's Works are known : And now this wondrous News , both far and near is shown . THe second News I tell , comes from brave Yorkshire : A Monster there was born , the like you ne'er did hear . Three Miles from Pomfret lived a Woman of great Worth , In Travail fell , and brought to light a monstrous Birth : Just the shape of a Colt , to all the Peoples sighed ; Which bred Amazement great , with Tears and with Fright , To see this Woman's Grief , and Trouble of her Mind , In bringing forth a Colt , contrary unto kind . Long Legs , round Feet , long Nose , and Headed like a Horse , Which fill'd these Women's Hearts with Pity and Remorse . This Woman now does mend , whereby God's Works are known : And now this wondrous News , both far and near is shown . ANd the third News most rare , the which I have to tell , London can witness true , that there a Monster fell . In Christ-Church Parish lived a Woman known full well , Of honest Carriage , which her Neighbours all can tell . This Woman being with Child , which Grief and Sorrow bred , Into the World she boar a Child without a Head. The Face was in the Breast , to all the Peoples view ; But it died suddenly : this is approved true . It is for certain true , and is approved plain ; From Earth I say it came , and to Earth it turn'd again . These Women now all three are on the mending hand : But Three such monstrous Births was ne'er in fair England . THe Fourth News most rare , the which I have to tell ; In famous Gloucestershire a wondrous Shower fell . Not far from Gloucester Town , a Place is call'd Brandwood , Upon a Hedge of Clothes , for truth , it reigned Blood . A Maid being starching there , as Reason does require , She went to fetch in Wood wherewith to make a Fire : And having on such Cuffs , as Starchers oft do use , Upon them fell some drops of Blood , made her to muse . And holding up her Head , which made her wonder more , She saw the Hedge of Clothes , with Blood besprinkl'd o'er . Then she throw'd down the Wood , and with amazement great She went into the House , and this News did repeat . The People then came forth , and found the News was true ; They saw the Hedge of Clothes with Blood besprinkl'd to their view . Then they took in the Clothes , and wash'd them that same Day ; But Water , Leez , nor Soap , could take the Blood away . We are so wicked grown , the Heavens do for us bleed , And Wonders strange are shown : all this is true indeed . Sodom was warn'd afore , so was Jerusalem , And many Places more , whom God did plague for Sin. But we are like the Jews , our Hearts are now so hard , That we will not believe , nor yet God's Word regard . Now think upon each since , Pride , Whoredom , Drunkenness , Swearing , Deceit , and Lies , and vile Covetousness . Then we shall see our God will take us for his own , If we believe these Signs and Tokens God hath shown . Concluding thus my News : The God of Truth and Peace Grant that the Gospel may continually increase . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 