Glad tidings from Heaven : OR Christs glorious Invitation to all Sinners , wherein is described the misery of his Manhood , and the bitterness of his Passion endured for Man : With sundry reasons inferred , to move Worldlings to repentance . To the tune of the Doleful Shepherd , or Sandy Soil . AWake from sin , vain man awake , Unto repentance thee betake : Thy Saviour calls , Oh come to me , And I will ease and comfort thee . My Father as the Scripture says , Delights not in a Sinners death : And therefore hath sent me his Son , That sinners all to me might come . Then come to me , 'tis only I , Can help thee in thy misery : 'Tis I can wash thy foul offence , And cloth thy soul with innocence . And that thou mayest assured be , What pains I have suff'red for thee ; Attend give ear , and listen well Unto the things that I shall tell . First being God , I did become , A man , nay worse , a scorn to some , Was lov'd of some , despis'd of most , Still on the sea of sorrows tossed . No sooner to this world I came , But Herod would my life have taken , And wheresoever I did fly , I was not free from misery . Cold hunger , thirst , sad grief , and pain , And all that frailty does sustain , My humane nature brought to me , All this I felt , Oh man , for thee . Sad sighs , deep groans & sweating blood , I did endure to do thee good : So terrible my torment was , That once I would have had it pass . And to conclude the Tragedy , Of all my woeful misery : The Jewes at their high Priests command Did come and take me out of hand . Next was I brought to Caiphas Hall , There to appear before them all : And at length decreed it was , That I must suffer on the Cross . But first they did there all agree , With whips to scourge and punish me , Which being done , then presently , I was convey'd to Calvary . Where to augment my misery , They nailed me upon a Tree : And cause I should not want disgrace , Between two thieves I had my place . And being crowned with thorns sharp , Each one would flouting at me carp . And he was counted there the best , That could deride and mock me most . This done to make and end of all , They gave me vinegar and gall : And lastly they did pierce my side , Whence blood and water did proceed . The second part . To the same tune . THese torments , Man , I did endure , That thou mightest be for ever sure , Of life , and come with Faith to me , That I from sin might set thee free . Then come with Faith do not despair , Although thy sins as crimson are , Yet hath my Blood them washed so , That they shall be as white as snow . If thou a murderer hast been , Or given to adulterous sin : View David who was both and yet Repenting he did mercy get . If sottish drunken thou hast been , Or stained with incestuous sin : See Lot who fell into that lust , Yet by Gods love was counted just . If thou by cursed Perjury , Hast cast thy soul in jeopardy : With Peters tears wash off thy sin , And thou with him shalt mercy win . If thou ( of knowledge destitute ) My Church didst ever persecute : Do not despair , but look on Paul , And then for mercy to me call . The Prodigal that thriftless son , Who headlong into vice did run , Was not cast off in misery , When once Peccavi , he did cry . Mary along time went astray , Yet did her tears wash sin away : She thought it not too late at last , Down at my feet her self to cast . The Thief that all his life had spent , In sin not meaning to repent , Did at the length obtain mercy , 'Cause he with penitence did die . This not the greatness of the crime , Should make thee think it out of time , For to repent and on me call : My passion can suffice for all . For all that sorrow for their sin , And never more delight therein : For those that truly will repent , For such my Father hath me sent . Then what so'ere thou be that art , With sin polluted , cleanse thy hear Come with a contrite soul to me , And I thine Advocate will be . Come , come , my Father's wrath prevent , Leave off your folly and repen Oh come to me I call again , Let not my Passion be in vain . Now those that fondly do presume , Till utmost gasp , in sin to run ; Let them assure themselves of this , That of my mercy they may miss . FINIS . London Printed for C.W. Glad tidings from Heaven : OR Christs glorious Invitation to all Sinners , wherein is described the misery of his Manhood , and the bitterness of his Passion endured for Man : With sundry reasons inferred , to move Worldlings to repentance . To the tune of the Doleful Shepherd , or Sandy Soil . AWake from sin , vain man awake , Unto repentance thee betake : Thy Saviour calls , Oh come to me , And I will ease and comfort thee . My Father as the Scripture says , Delights not in a Sinners death : And therefore hath sent me his Son , That sinners all to me might come . Then come to me , 'tis only I , Can help thee in thy misery : 'Tis I can wash thy foul offence , And cloth thy soul with innocence . And that thou mayest assured be , What pains I have suff'red for thee ; Attend give ear , and listen well Unto the things that I shall tell . First being God , I did become , A man , nay worse , a scorn to some , Was lov'd of some , despis'd of most , Still on the sea of sorrows tossed . No sooner to this world I came , But Herod would my life have taken , And wheresoever I did fly , I was not free from misery . Cold hunger , thirst , sad grief , and pain , And all that frailty does sustain , My humane nature brought to me , All this I felt , Oh man , for thee . Sad sighs , deep groans & sweating blood , I did endure to do thee good : So terrible my torment was , That once I would have had it pass . And to conclude the Tragedy , Of all my woeful misery : The Jewes at their high Priests command Did come and take me out of hand . Next was I brought to Caiphas Hall , There to appear before them all : And at length decreed it was , That I must suffer on the Cross . But first they did there all agree , With whips to scourge and punish me , Which being done , then presently , I was convey'd to Calvary . Where to augment my misery , They nailed me upon a Tree : And cause I should not want disgrace , Between two thieves I had my place . And being crowned with thorns sharp , Each one would flouting at me carp . And he was counted there the best , That could deride and mock me most . This done to make and end of all , They gave me vinegar and gall : And lastly they did pierce my side , Whence blood and water did proceed . The second part . To the same tune . THese torments , Man , I did endure , That thou mightest be for ever sure , Of life , and come with Faith to me , That I from sin might set thee free . Then come with Faith do not despair , Although thy sins as crimson are , Yet hath my Blood them washed so , That they shall be as white as snow . If thou a murderer hast been , Or given to adulterous sin : View David who was both and yet Repenting he did mercy get . If sottish drunken thou hast been , Or stained with incestuous sin : See Lot who fell into that lust , Yet by Gods love was counted just . If thou by cursed Perjury , Hast cast thy soul in jeopardy : With Peters tears wash off thy sin , And thou with him shalt mercy win . If thou ( of knowledge destitute ) My Church didst ever persecute : Do not despair , but look on Paul , And then for mercy to me call . The Prodigal that thriftless son , Who headlong into vice did run , Was not cast off in misery , When once Peccavi , he did cry . Mary along time went astray , Yet did her tears wash sin away : She thought it not too late at last , Down at my feet her self to cast . The Thief that all his life had spent , In sin not meaning to repent , Did at the length obtain mercy , 'Cause he with penitence did die . This not the greatness of the crime , Should make thee think it out of time , For to repent and on me call : My passion can suffice for all . For all that sorrow for their sin , And never more delight therein : For those that truly will repent , For such my Father hath me sent . Then what so'ere thou be that art , With sin polluted , cleanse thy hear Come with a contrite soul to me , And I thine Advocate will be . Come , come , my Father's wrath prevent , Leave off your folly and repen Oh come to me I call again , Let not my Passion be in vain . Now those that fondly do presume , Till utmost gasp , in sin to run ; Let them assure themselves of this , That of my mercy they may miss . FINIS . London Printed for C.W. Glad tidings from Heaven : OR Christs glorious Invitation to all Sinners , wherein is described the misery of his Manhood , and the bitterness of his Passion endured for Man : With sundry reasons inferred , to move Worldlings to repentance . To the tune of the Doleful Shepherd , or Sandy Soil . AWake from sin , vain man awake , Unto repentance thee betake : Thy Saviour calls , Oh come to me , And I will ease and comfort thee . My Father as the Scripture says , Delights not in a Sinners death : And therefore hath sent me his Son , That sinners all to me might come . Then come to me , 'tis only I , Can help thee in thy misery : 'Tis I can wash thy foul offence , And cloth thy soul with innocence . And that thou mayest assured be , What pains I have suff'red for thee ; Attend give ear , and listen well Unto the things that I shall tell . First being God , I did become , A man , nay worse , a scorn to some , Was lov'd of some , despis'd of most , Still on the sea of sorrows tossed . No sooner to this world I came , But Herod would my life have taken , And wheresoever I did fly , I was not free from misery . Cold hunger , thirst , sad grief , and pain , And all that frailty does sustain , My humane nature brought to me , All this I felt , Oh man , for thee . Sad sighs , deep groans & sweating blood , I did endure to do thee good : So terrible my torment was , That once I would have had it pass . And to conclude the Tragedy , Of all my woeful misery : The Jewes at their high Priests command Did come and take me out of hand . Next was I brought to Caiphas Hall , There to appear before them all : And at length decreed it was , That I must suffer on the Cross . But first they did there all agree , With whips to scourge and punish me , Which being done , then presently , I was convey'd to Calvary . Where to augment my misery , They nailed me upon a Tree : And cause I should not want disgrace , Between two thieves I had my place . And being crowned with thorns sharp , Each one would flouting at me carp . And he was counted there the best , That could deride and mock me most . This done to make and end of all , They gave me vinegar and gall : And lastly they did pierce my side , Whence blood and water did proceed . The second part . To the same tune . THese torments , Man , I did endure , That thou mightest be for ever sure , Of life , and come with Faith to me , That I from sin might set thee free . Then come with Faith do not despair , Although thy sins as crimson are , Yet hath my Blood them washed so , That they shall be as white as snow . If thou a murderer hast been , Or given to adulterous sin : View David who was both and yet Repenting he did mercy get . If sottish drunken thou hast been , Or stained with incestuous sin : See Lot who fell into that lust , Yet by Gods love was counted just . If thou by cursed Perjury , Hast cast thy soul in jeopardy : With Peters tears wash off thy sin , And thou with him shalt mercy win . If thou ( of knowledge destitute ) My Church didst ever persecute : Do not despair , but look on Paul , And then for mercy to me call . The Prodigal that thriftless son , Who headlong into vice did run , Was not cast off in misery , When once Peccavi , he did cry . Mary along time went astray , Yet did her tears wash sin away : She thought it not too late at last , Down at my feet her self to cast . The Thief that all his life had spent , In sin not meaning to repent , Did at the length obtain mercy , 'Cause he with penitence did die . This not the greatness of the crime , Should make thee think it out of time , For to repent and on me call : My passion can suffice for all . For all that sorrow for their sin , And never more delight therein : For those that truly will repent , For such my Father hath me sent . Then what so'ere thou be that art , With sin polluted , cleanse thy hear Come with a contrite soul to me , And I thine Advocate will be . Come , come , my Father's wrath prevent , Leave off your folly and repen Oh come to me I call again , Let not my Passion be in vain . Now those that fondly do presume , Till utmost gasp , in sin to run ; Let them assure themselves of this , That of my mercy they may miss . FINIS . London Printed for C.W. Glad tidings from Heaven : OR Christs glorious Invitation to all Sinners , wherein is described the misery of his Manhood , and the bitterness of his Passion endured for Man : With sundry reasons inferred , to move Worldlings to repentance . To the tune of the Doleful Shepherd , or Sandy Soil . AWake from sin , vain man awake , Unto repentance thee betake : Thy Saviour calls , Oh come to me , And I will ease and comfort thee . My Father as the Scripture says , Delights not in a Sinners death : And therefore hath sent me his Son , That sinners all to me might come . Then come to me , 'tis only I , Can help thee in thy misery : 'Tis I can wash thy foul offence , And cloth thy soul with innocence . And that thou mayest assured be , What pains I have suff'red for thee ; Attend give ear , and listen well Unto the things that I shall tell . First being God , I did become , A man , nay worse , a scorn to some , Was lov'd of some , despis'd of most , Still on the sea of sorrows tossed . No sooner to this world I came , But Herod would my life have taken , And wheresoever I did fly , I was not free from misery . Cold hunger , thirst , sad grief , and pain , And all that frailty does sustain , My humane nature brought to me , All this I felt , Oh man , for thee . Sad sighs , deep groans & sweating blood , I did endure to do thee good : So terrible my torment was , That once I would have had it pass . And to conclude the Tragedy , Of all my woeful misery : The Jewes at their high Priests command Did come and take me out of hand . Next was I brought to Caiphas Hall , There to appear before them all : And at length decreed it was , That I must suffer on the Cross . But first they did there all agree , With whips to scourge and punish me , Which being done , then presently , I was convey'd to Calvary . Where to augment my misery , They nailed me upon a Tree : And cause I should not want disgrace , Between two thieves I had my place . And being crowned with thorns sharp , Each one would flouting at me carp . And he was counted there the best , That could deride and mock me most . This done to make and end of all , They gave me vinegar and gall : And lastly they did pierce my side , Whence blood and water did proceed . The second part . To the same tune . THese torments , Man , I did endure , That thou mightest be for ever sure , Of life , and come with Faith to me , That I from sin might set thee free . Then come with Faith do not despair , Although thy sins as crimson are , Yet hath my Blood them washed so , That they shall be as white as snow . If thou a murderer hast been , Or given to adulterous sin : View David who was both and yet Repenting he did mercy get . If sottish drunken thou hast been , Or stained with incestuous sin : See Lot who fell into that lust , Yet by Gods love was counted just . If thou by cursed Perjury , Hast cast thy soul in jeopardy : With Peters tears wash off thy sin , And thou with him shalt mercy win . If thou ( of knowledge destitute ) My Church didst ever persecute : Do not despair , but look on Paul , And then for mercy to me call . The Prodigal that thriftless son , Who headlong into vice did run , Was not cast off in misery , When once Peccavi , he did cry . Mary along time went astray , Yet did her tears wash sin away : She thought it not too late at last , Down at my feet her self to cast . The Thief that all his life had spent , In sin not meaning to repent , Did at the length obtain mercy , 'Cause he with penitence did die . This not the greatness of the crime , Should make thee think it out of time , For to repent and on me call : My passion can suffice for all . For all that sorrow for their sin , And never more delight therein : For those that truly will repent , For such my Father hath me sent . Then what so'ere thou be that art , With sin polluted , cleanse thy hear Come with a contrite soul to me , And I thine Advocate will be . Come , come , my Father's wrath prevent , Leave off your folly and repen Oh come to me I call again , Let not my Passion be in vain . Now those that fondly do presume , Till utmost gasp , in sin to run ; Let them assure themselves of this , That of my mercy they may miss . FINIS . London Printed for C.W. 