Good Counsel for young Wooers : Showing the Way , the Means , and the Skill , To woo any Woman , be she what she will : Then all young men that are minded to woo , Come hear this new Ballad , and buy't ere you go . To a dainty new tune , or else it may be Sung to the tune of Pretty Bessee . COme all you young Pupils that yet have no skill , In wooing to get a fine Lasses good will , [ If ] you will be ruled , and take my advice , [ Il ] e teach you to woo and speed in a trice , [ The ] u must not be daunted what ever she say , [ H ] e may speed tomorrow that's cast off today . If you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her , & coll her until she does yield : A faint hearted Soldier will never win field . [ Y ] ou must set her beauty at the highest rate , [ A ] and never leave wooing her early and late . [ TO ] ell her that her brow like a black Loadstone draws , [ TO ] hy Iron heart to her , as Jet will do straws , When she does conceive and perceive thy respect , [ E ] re long thy industry shall find and effect . Then you that will woo a wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , etc For take this from me , a black wench is still proud , And loves well to hear her praise set forth aloud , Although she accuse thee of flattery oft , And tell thee she cannot abide to be scoffed , Yet never leave praising her , for if thou dost , Thy speeches , thy pains , and thy love is all lost . Then if you will woo a Wench with black brow , Acc [ ept ] of my Counsel , etc Comply with her humour in every thing right , For that's the chief course that can give her delight , If thou see her merry , then laugh sing and jest , Or tell some love tales , this a maiden likes best , And when she is sad then put finger i'th eye , For wooers ( like women ) must oft feign a cry . Then if you will woo a wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , etc If great be her Portion , and thou be but poor , Thy duty and pains must be so much the more , Thou must vow good husbandry during thy life , What wilt thou not promise to get such a wife , Gowns , Kirtles , and toys of the fashion all new , What though all thy words prove not afterwards true . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , etc If thou from her sighed have been too long away , Then redeem thy negligence with longer stay , And if she be angry be sure go not thence , Until thou force her with thy fault to dispense , And tell her thou wilt not only stay all day , But ( if she please ) thou wilt her all night obey . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her until she do yield : For a fainthearted Soldier will never win field . The second part , To the same tune . HAve her to weddings , plays , and merry meetings , Where she may notice take of Lovers greetings , Such objects oftentimes a motive may be To make her love thee if she were a Lady , For when a Maid see's what's done by another , It more will persuade then advice from her Mother . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her , until she do yield : For a fainthearted Soldier will never win field . If unto a Fair thou do go far or nigh , Although thou have other great matters to buy , Yet when thou com'st home again be not thou sparing , To say thou went'st only to buy her a fairing , By this she will think thou wilt be a kind wretch ; That would'st go so far off a fairing to fetch . Then you that will woo a Wench , etc If she be in presence when others are by , Where words must be wanting there woo with thy eye , Although it seem strange yet experience does prove , That the eye does convey the first motion of Love , And thou mayest perceive by her eye whither she , Do well correspond in affection with thee . Then if thou wilt woo a Wench , etc When by these means ( or by any of them ) Thou hast god this favour of thy precious Gem , Be careful to hold and keep what thou hast god , The Proverb says strike the Iron while it is hight , For if thou protract and let slip thy occasion , She's not so soon won with a second pers [ w ] asion . Then if thou wilt , etc Thou well may'st perceive by the words that are past That I do advice thee to marry in haste . A thing may be dashed when it comes to the push , And one bird in hand is worth two in the bush ; One day , nay one hour , ( if thou [ l ] ike thy wife ) May make thee or mar thee all the days of thy life Then if you will woo a Wench , etc Although in my counsel I let others pass , And only have mention made of a black Lass , Yet be thy sweet heart , either black , brown or rudd [ y ] These Lessons kind Wooer are fit for thy study , Be she fair or foul , be she Widow or Maid , In wooing , a man must do as I have said . All you that will woo a Wench , etc And now with this counsel my ditty I'll end , And if any Carper my skill discommend , Hee'le show little wisdom my counsel to blame ; For the wisest Wooer may follow the same , And if they will not for my part let them choose , But once more I will them these Lines to peruse . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black bro [ w ] Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her , until she do yield , A fainthearted Soldier will never win field . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for F.G. Good Counsel for young Wooers : Showing the Way , the Means , and the Skill , To woo any Woman , be she what she will : Then all young men that are minded to woo , Come hear this new Ballad , and buy't ere you go . To a dainty new tune , or else it may be Sung to the tune of Pretty Bessee . COme all you young Pupils that yet have no skill , In wooing to get a fine Lasses good will , [ If ] you will be ruled , and take my advice , [ Il ] e teach you to woo and speed in a trice , [ The ] u must not be daunted what ever she say , [ H ] e may speed tomorrow that's cast off today . If you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her , & coll her until she does yield : A faint hearted Soldier will never win field . [ Y ] ou must set her beauty at the highest rate , [ A ] and never leave wooing her early and late . [ TO ] ell her that her brow like a black Loadstone draws , [ TO ] hy Iron heart to her , as Jet will do straws , When she does conceive and perceive thy respect , [ E ] re long thy industry shall find and effect . Then you that will woo a wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , etc For take this from me , a black wench is still proud , And loves well to hear her praise set forth aloud , Although she accuse thee of flattery oft , And tell thee she cannot abide to be scoffed , Yet never leave praising her , for if thou dost , Thy speeches , thy pains , and thy love is all lost . Then if you will woo a Wench with black brow , Acc [ ept ] of my Counsel , etc Comply with her humour in every thing right , For that's the chief course that can give her delight , If thou see her merry , then laugh sing and jest , Or tell some love tales , this a maiden likes best , And when she is sad then put finger i'th eye , For wooers ( like women ) must oft feign a cry . Then if you will woo a wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , etc If great be her Portion , and thou be but poor , Thy duty and pains must be so much the more , Thou must vow good husbandry during thy life , What wilt thou not promise to get such a wife , Gowns , Kirtles , and toys of the fashion all new , What though all thy words prove not afterwards true . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , etc If thou from her sighed have been too long away , Then redeem thy negligence with longer stay , And if she be angry be sure go not thence , Until thou force her with thy fault to dispense , And tell her thou wilt not only stay all day , But ( if she please ) thou wilt her all night obey . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her until she do yield : For a fainthearted Soldier will never win field . The second part , To the same tune . HAve her to weddings , plays , and merry meetings , Where she may notice take of Lovers greetings , Such objects oftentimes a motive may be To make her love thee if she were a Lady , For when a Maid see's what's done by another , It more will persuade then advice from her Mother . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her , until she do yield : For a fainthearted Soldier will never win field . If unto a Fair thou do go far or nigh , Although thou have other great matters to buy , Yet when thou com'st home again be not thou sparing , To say thou went'st only to buy her a fairing , By this she will think thou wilt be a kind wretch ; That would'st go so far off a fairing to fetch . Then you that will woo a Wench , etc If she be in presence when others are by , Where words must be wanting there woo with thy eye , Although it seem strange yet experience does prove , That the eye does convey the first motion of Love , And thou mayest perceive by her eye whither she , Do well correspond in affection with thee . Then if thou wilt woo a Wench , etc When by these means ( or by any of them ) Thou hast god this favour of thy precious Gem , Be careful to hold and keep what thou hast god , The Proverb says strike the Iron while it is hight , For if thou protract and let slip thy occasion , She's not so soon won with a second pers [ w ] asion . Then if thou wilt , etc Thou well may'st perceive by the words that are past That I do advice thee to marry in haste . A thing may be dashed when it comes to the push , And one bird in hand is worth two in the bush ; One day , nay one hour , ( if thou [ l ] ike thy wife ) May make thee or mar thee all the days of thy life Then if you will woo a Wench , etc Although in my counsel I let others pass , And only have mention made of a black Lass , Yet be thy sweet heart , either black , brown or rudd [ y ] These Lessons kind Wooer are fit for thy study , Be she fair or foul , be she Widow or Maid , In wooing , a man must do as I have said . All you that will woo a Wench , etc And now with this counsel my ditty I'll end , And if any Carper my skill discommend , Hee'le show little wisdom my counsel to blame ; For the wisest Wooer may follow the same , And if they will not for my part let them choose , But once more I will them these Lines to peruse . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black bro [ w ] Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her , until she do yield , A fainthearted Soldier will never win field . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for F.G. Good Counsel for young Wooers : Showing the Way , the Means , and the Skill , To woo any Woman , be she what she will : Then all young men that are minded to woo , Come hear this new Ballad , and buy't ere you go . To a dainty new tune , or else it may be Sung to the tune of Pretty Bessee . COme all you young Pupils that yet have no skill , In wooing to get a fine Lasses good will , [ If ] you will be ruled , and take my advice , [ Il ] e teach you to woo and speed in a trice , [ The ] u must not be daunted what ever she say , [ H ] e may speed tomorrow that's cast off today . If you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her , & coll her until she does yield : A faint hearted Soldier will never win field . [ Y ] ou must set her beauty at the highest rate , [ A ] and never leave wooing her early and late . [ TO ] ell her that her brow like a black Loadstone draws , [ TO ] hy Iron heart to her , as Jet will do straws , When she does conceive and perceive thy respect , [ E ] re long thy industry shall find and effect . Then you that will woo a wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , etc For take this from me , a black wench is still proud , And loves well to hear her praise set forth aloud , Although she accuse thee of flattery oft , And tell thee she cannot abide to be scoffed , Yet never leave praising her , for if thou dost , Thy speeches , thy pains , and thy love is all lost . Then if you will woo a Wench with black brow , Acc [ ept ] of my Counsel , etc Comply with her humour in every thing right , For that's the chief course that can give her delight , If thou see her merry , then laugh sing and jest , Or tell some love tales , this a maiden likes best , And when she is sad then put finger i'th eye , For wooers ( like women ) must oft feign a cry . Then if you will woo a wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , etc If great be her Portion , and thou be but poor , Thy duty and pains must be so much the more , Thou must vow good husbandry during thy life , What wilt thou not promise to get such a wife , Gowns , Kirtles , and toys of the fashion all new , What though all thy words prove not afterwards true . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , etc If thou from her sighed have been too long away , Then redeem thy negligence with longer stay , And if she be angry be sure go not thence , Until thou force her with thy fault to dispense , And tell her thou wilt not only stay all day , But ( if she please ) thou wilt her all night obey . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her until she do yield : For a fainthearted Soldier will never win field . The second part , To the same tune . HAve her to weddings , plays , and merry meetings , Where she may notice take of Lovers greetings , Such objects oftentimes a motive may be To make her love thee if she were a Lady , For when a Maid see's what's done by another , It more will persuade then advice from her Mother . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her , until she do yield : For a fainthearted Soldier will never win field . If unto a Fair thou do go far or nigh , Although thou have other great matters to buy , Yet when thou com'st home again be not thou sparing , To say thou went'st only to buy her a fairing , By this she will think thou wilt be a kind wretch ; That would'st go so far off a fairing to fetch . Then you that will woo a Wench , etc If she be in presence when others are by , Where words must be wanting there woo with thy eye , Although it seem strange yet experience does prove , That the eye does convey the first motion of Love , And thou mayest perceive by her eye whither she , Do well correspond in affection with thee . Then if thou wilt woo a Wench , etc When by these means ( or by any of them ) Thou hast god this favour of thy precious Gem , Be careful to hold and keep what thou hast god , The Proverb says strike the Iron while it is hight , For if thou protract and let slip thy occasion , She's not so soon won with a second pers [ w ] asion . Then if thou wilt , etc Thou well may'st perceive by the words that are past That I do advice thee to marry in haste . A thing may be dashed when it comes to the push , And one bird in hand is worth two in the bush ; One day , nay one hour , ( if thou [ l ] ike thy wife ) May make thee or mar thee all the days of thy life Then if you will woo a Wench , etc Although in my counsel I let others pass , And only have mention made of a black Lass , Yet be thy sweet heart , either black , brown or rudd [ y ] These Lessons kind Wooer are fit for thy study , Be she fair or foul , be she Widow or Maid , In wooing , a man must do as I have said . All you that will woo a Wench , etc And now with this counsel my ditty I'll end , And if any Carper my skill discommend , Hee'le show little wisdom my counsel to blame ; For the wisest Wooer may follow the same , And if they will not for my part let them choose , But once more I will them these Lines to peruse . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black bro [ w ] Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her , until she do yield , A fainthearted Soldier will never win field . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for F.G. Good Counsel for young Wooers : Showing the Way , the Means , and the Skill , To woo any Woman , be she what she will : Then all young men that are minded to woo , Come hear this new Ballad , and buy't ere you go . To a dainty new tune , or else it may be Sung to the tune of Pretty Bessee . COme all you young Pupils that yet have no skill , In wooing to get a fine Lasses good will , [ If ] you will be ruled , and take my advice , [ Il ] e teach you to woo and speed in a trice , [ The ] u must not be daunted what ever she say , [ H ] e may speed tomorrow that's cast off today . If you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her , & coll her until she does yield : A faint hearted Soldier will never win field . [ Y ] ou must set her beauty at the highest rate , [ A ] and never leave wooing her early and late . [ TO ] ell her that her brow like a black Loadstone draws , [ TO ] hy Iron heart to her , as Jet will do straws , When she does conceive and perceive thy respect , [ E ] re long thy industry shall find and effect . Then you that will woo a wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , etc For take this from me , a black wench is still proud , And loves well to hear her praise set forth aloud , Although she accuse thee of flattery oft , And tell thee she cannot abide to be scoffed , Yet never leave praising her , for if thou dost , Thy speeches , thy pains , and thy love is all lost . Then if you will woo a Wench with black brow , Acc [ ept ] of my Counsel , etc Comply with her humour in every thing right , For that's the chief course that can give her delight , If thou see her merry , then laugh sing and jest , Or tell some love tales , this a maiden likes best , And when she is sad then put finger i'th eye , For wooers ( like women ) must oft feign a cry . Then if you will woo a wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , etc If great be her Portion , and thou be but poor , Thy duty and pains must be so much the more , Thou must vow good husbandry during thy life , What wilt thou not promise to get such a wife , Gowns , Kirtles , and toys of the fashion all new , What though all thy words prove not afterwards true . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my Counsel , etc If thou from her sighed have been too long away , Then redeem thy negligence with longer stay , And if she be angry be sure go not thence , Until thou force her with thy fault to dispense , And tell her thou wilt not only stay all day , But ( if she please ) thou wilt her all night obey . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her until she do yield : For a fainthearted Soldier will never win field . The second part , To the same tune . HAve her to weddings , plays , and merry meetings , Where she may notice take of Lovers greetings , Such objects oftentimes a motive may be To make her love thee if she were a Lady , For when a Maid see's what's done by another , It more will persuade then advice from her Mother . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black brow , Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her , until she do yield : For a fainthearted Soldier will never win field . If unto a Fair thou do go far or nigh , Although thou have other great matters to buy , Yet when thou com'st home again be not thou sparing , To say thou went'st only to buy her a fairing , By this she will think thou wilt be a kind wretch ; That would'st go so far off a fairing to fetch . Then you that will woo a Wench , etc If she be in presence when others are by , Where words must be wanting there woo with thy eye , Although it seem strange yet experience does prove , That the eye does convey the first motion of Love , And thou mayest perceive by her eye whither she , Do well correspond in affection with thee . Then if thou wilt woo a Wench , etc When by these means ( or by any of them ) Thou hast god this favour of thy precious Gem , Be careful to hold and keep what thou hast god , The Proverb says strike the Iron while it is hight , For if thou protract and let slip thy occasion , She's not so soon won with a second pers [ w ] asion . Then if thou wilt , etc Thou well may'st perceive by the words that are past That I do advice thee to marry in haste . A thing may be dashed when it comes to the push , And one bird in hand is worth two in the bush ; One day , nay one hour , ( if thou [ l ] ike thy wife ) May make thee or mar thee all the days of thy life Then if you will woo a Wench , etc Although in my counsel I let others pass , And only have mention made of a black Lass , Yet be thy sweet heart , either black , brown or rudd [ y ] These Lessons kind Wooer are fit for thy study , Be she fair or foul , be she Widow or Maid , In wooing , a man must do as I have said . All you that will woo a Wench , etc And now with this counsel my ditty I'll end , And if any Carper my skill discommend , Hee'le show little wisdom my counsel to blame ; For the wisest Wooer may follow the same , And if they will not for my part let them choose , But once more I will them these Lines to peruse . Then if you will woo a Wench with a black bro [ w ] Accept of my counsel , and I'll tell you how , You must kiss her and coll her , until she do yield , A fainthearted Soldier will never win field . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for F.G. 