The Honest Wooer , His mind expressing in plain and few terms , By which to his Mistress his love he confirms . To the tune of , Lulling beyond her . FAirest Mistress , cease your moan , spoil not your eyes with weeping , For certainly if one be gone , you may have another sweating : I will not compliment with oaths , nor speak you fair to prove you , But save your eyes to mend your clothes for it is I that love you . I will not boast of substance great , wherewith I can endow you , Nor what apparel nor what meat , I'm able to allow you ; You know 'tis time that all things tries let then my affection move you , And weep no more but save your eyes , for it is I that love you . If I should say y'have golden hairs , I should both lie and flatter , Why should I say thine eyes are stars , when there is no such matter ? Every like is not the same , yet none I prize above you , To sighs so soar you are much to blame , for it is I that love you With courtly words I cannot court , like one whose tongue is filed , By subtle speakers in that sort , poor women are oft beguiled : I speak no more but what I mean , then do as it does behove you , And do not waste your tears in vain , for it is I that love you . You may , I know , have choice of men , that many ways excel me , But yet in love I pass all them , my conscience this does tell me , Then let no riches buy my prize , nor flattering words remove you , To sighs and sob you are very unwise , for it is I that love you . I am thy constant Pyramus , be thou my constant Thysbe , That such a match is made by us , let this a sealing kiss be , I never will revoke my vow , nor deem any Lass above you , Then dearest leave your sorrow now , for it is I that love you . Now if you do my love deny , and utterly refuse me , I will not say for love I'll die , in that you shall excuse me : Some say so , yet mean nothing less , but pity I hope will move you , Not to put me to that distress , for it is I that love you . The second part ; Being and answer of the Maiden kind , Correspondent to the plain Youngman's mind . To the same tune . AS the lost infant does rejoice , when he hath found his Mother , So am I glad to hear the voice of you my constant Lover : Believe me Harry if you will , since I so true do prove you , Come when you will and welcome still for it is I that love you . I loved a false disloyal youth , which caus'd my thus lamenting , For in his words there were no truth , but subtle circumventing ; You use plain dealing which is best , so still it does behove you , And therefore set your heart at rest , for it is I that love you . And now henceforth I will give over , to weep for him that jeers me , And his affection I'll abhor , for no true love he bears me , With you I will rejoice my deer , let no false tales remove you , Believe not every news you hear , for it is I that love you . As Hypsocrats of Pontus Queen , did follow her Mithridates , Thorough uncouth woods & forests green so nothing shall separate us : I'll circulate the word with you , nought shall from me remove you , Think not that I speak more than's true for it is I that love you . Nor Lucrece nor Penelope , shall be more chaste than I will , Ere I'll forsake my honesty , ten thousand death's I die will , You need not to repent your choice , but let me true still prove you , And so we shall together rejoice , for it is I that love you . Judge not amiss , because so soon I yield to your requesting , Love is a thing that ought to be done , without any fraud or jesting : You love plain dealing as you say , then why should I disprove you , Against my mind I cant say nay , for it is I that love you . And thus with mind reciprocal , this couple were well matched ; The Parson told the Parish all , and then 'twas quite dispatched ; I hope the love that 'twixt them past , unto delight would move you , Each of them us'd this Phrase toth' last , for it is I that love you . Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . FINIS . The Honest Wooer , His mind expressing in plain and few terms , By which to his Mistress his love he confirms . To the tune of , Lulling beyond her . FAirest Mistress , cease your moan , spoil not your eyes with weeping , For certainly if one be gone , you may have another sweating : I will not compliment with oaths , nor speak you fair to prove you , But save your eyes to mend your clothes for it is I that love you . I will not boast of substance great , wherewith I can endow you , Nor what apparel nor what meat , I'm able to allow you ; You know 'tis time that all things tries let then my affection move you , And weep no more but save your eyes , for it is I that love you . If I should say y'have golden hairs , I should both lie and flatter , Why should I say thine eyes are stars , when there is no such matter ? Every like is not the same , yet none I prize above you , To sighs so soar you are much to blame , for it is I that love you With courtly words I cannot court , like one whose tongue is filed , By subtle speakers in that sort , poor women are oft beguiled : I speak no more but what I mean , then do as it does behove you , And do not waste your tears in vain , for it is I that love you . You may , I know , have choice of men , that many ways excel me , But yet in love I pass all them , my conscience this does tell me , Then let no riches buy my prize , nor flattering words remove you , To sighs and sob you are very unwise , for it is I that love you . I am thy constant Pyramus , be thou my constant Thysbe , That such a match is made by us , let this a sealing kiss be , I never will revoke my vow , nor deem any Lass above you , Then dearest leave your sorrow now , for it is I that love you . Now if you do my love deny , and utterly refuse me , I will not say for love I'll die , in that you shall excuse me : Some say so , yet mean nothing less , but pity I hope will move you , Not to put me to that distress , for it is I that love you . The second part ; Being and answer of the Maiden kind , Correspondent to the plain Youngman's mind . To the same tune . AS the lost infant does rejoice , when he hath found his Mother , So am I glad to hear the voice of you my constant Lover : Believe me Harry if you will , since I so true do prove you , Come when you will and welcome still for it is I that love you . I loved a false disloyal youth , which caus'd my thus lamenting , For in his words there were no truth , but subtle circumventing ; You use plain dealing which is best , so still it does behove you , And therefore set your heart at rest , for it is I that love you . And now henceforth I will give over , to weep for him that jeers me , And his affection I'll abhor , for no true love he bears me , With you I will rejoice my deer , let no false tales remove you , Believe not every news you hear , for it is I that love you . As Hypsocrats of Pontus Queen , did follow her Mithridates , Thorough uncouth woods & forests green so nothing shall separate us : I'll circulate the word with you , nought shall from me remove you , Think not that I speak more than's true for it is I that love you . Nor Lucrece nor Penelope , shall be more chaste than I will , Ere I'll forsake my honesty , ten thousand death's I die will , You need not to repent your choice , but let me true still prove you , And so we shall together rejoice , for it is I that love you . Judge not amiss , because so soon I yield to your requesting , Love is a thing that ought to be done , without any fraud or jesting : You love plain dealing as you say , then why should I disprove you , Against my mind I cant say nay , for it is I that love you . And thus with mind reciprocal , this couple were well matched ; The Parson told the Parish all , and then 'twas quite dispatched ; I hope the love that 'twixt them past , unto delight would move you , Each of them us'd this Phrase toth' last , for it is I that love you . Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . FINIS . The Honest Wooer , His mind expressing in plain and few terms , By which to his Mistress his love he confirms . To the tune of , Lulling beyond her . FAirest Mistress , cease your moan , spoil not your eyes with weeping , For certainly if one be gone , you may have another sweating : I will not compliment with oaths , nor speak you fair to prove you , But save your eyes to mend your clothes for it is I that love you . I will not boast of substance great , wherewith I can endow you , Nor what apparel nor what meat , I'm able to allow you ; You know 'tis time that all things tries let then my affection move you , And weep no more but save your eyes , for it is I that love you . If I should say y'have golden hairs , I should both lie and flatter , Why should I say thine eyes are stars , when there is no such matter ? Every like is not the same , yet none I prize above you , To sighs so soar you are much to blame , for it is I that love you With courtly words I cannot court , like one whose tongue is filed , By subtle speakers in that sort , poor women are oft beguiled : I speak no more but what I mean , then do as it does behove you , And do not waste your tears in vain , for it is I that love you . You may , I know , have choice of men , that many ways excel me , But yet in love I pass all them , my conscience this does tell me , Then let no riches buy my prize , nor flattering words remove you , To sighs and sob you are very unwise , for it is I that love you . I am thy constant Pyramus , be thou my constant Thysbe , That such a match is made by us , let this a sealing kiss be , I never will revoke my vow , nor deem any Lass above you , Then dearest leave your sorrow now , for it is I that love you . Now if you do my love deny , and utterly refuse me , I will not say for love I'll die , in that you shall excuse me : Some say so , yet mean nothing less , but pity I hope will move you , Not to put me to that distress , for it is I that love you . The second part ; Being and answer of the Maiden kind , Correspondent to the plain Youngman's mind . To the same tune . AS the lost infant does rejoice , when he hath found his Mother , So am I glad to hear the voice of you my constant Lover : Believe me Harry if you will , since I so true do prove you , Come when you will and welcome still for it is I that love you . I loved a false disloyal youth , which caus'd my thus lamenting , For in his words there were no truth , but subtle circumventing ; You use plain dealing which is best , so still it does behove you , And therefore set your heart at rest , for it is I that love you . And now henceforth I will give over , to weep for him that jeers me , And his affection I'll abhor , for no true love he bears me , With you I will rejoice my deer , let no false tales remove you , Believe not every news you hear , for it is I that love you . As Hypsocrats of Pontus Queen , did follow her Mithridates , Thorough uncouth woods & forests green so nothing shall separate us : I'll circulate the word with you , nought shall from me remove you , Think not that I speak more than's true for it is I that love you . Nor Lucrece nor Penelope , shall be more chaste than I will , Ere I'll forsake my honesty , ten thousand death's I die will , You need not to repent your choice , but let me true still prove you , And so we shall together rejoice , for it is I that love you . Judge not amiss , because so soon I yield to your requesting , Love is a thing that ought to be done , without any fraud or jesting : You love plain dealing as you say , then why should I disprove you , Against my mind I cant say nay , for it is I that love you . And thus with mind reciprocal , this couple were well matched ; The Parson told the Parish all , and then 'twas quite dispatched ; I hope the love that 'twixt them past , unto delight would move you , Each of them us'd this Phrase toth' last , for it is I that love you . Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . FINIS . The Honest Wooer , His mind expressing in plain and few terms , By which to his Mistress his love he confirms . To the tune of , Lulling beyond her . FAirest Mistress , cease your moan , spoil not your eyes with weeping , For certainly if one be gone , you may have another sweating : I will not compliment with oaths , nor speak you fair to prove you , But save your eyes to mend your clothes for it is I that love you . I will not boast of substance great , wherewith I can endow you , Nor what apparel nor what meat , I'm able to allow you ; You know 'tis time that all things tries let then my affection move you , And weep no more but save your eyes , for it is I that love you . If I should say y'have golden hairs , I should both lie and flatter , Why should I say thine eyes are stars , when there is no such matter ? Every like is not the same , yet none I prize above you , To sighs so soar you are much to blame , for it is I that love you With courtly words I cannot court , like one whose tongue is filed , By subtle speakers in that sort , poor women are oft beguiled : I speak no more but what I mean , then do as it does behove you , And do not waste your tears in vain , for it is I that love you . You may , I know , have choice of men , that many ways excel me , But yet in love I pass all them , my conscience this does tell me , Then let no riches buy my prize , nor flattering words remove you , To sighs and sob you are very unwise , for it is I that love you . I am thy constant Pyramus , be thou my constant Thysbe , That such a match is made by us , let this a sealing kiss be , I never will revoke my vow , nor deem any Lass above you , Then dearest leave your sorrow now , for it is I that love you . Now if you do my love deny , and utterly refuse me , I will not say for love I'll die , in that you shall excuse me : Some say so , yet mean nothing less , but pity I hope will move you , Not to put me to that distress , for it is I that love you . The second part ; Being and answer of the Maiden kind , Correspondent to the plain Youngman's mind . To the same tune . AS the lost infant does rejoice , when he hath found his Mother , So am I glad to hear the voice of you my constant Lover : Believe me Harry if you will , since I so true do prove you , Come when you will and welcome still for it is I that love you . I loved a false disloyal youth , which caus'd my thus lamenting , For in his words there were no truth , but subtle circumventing ; You use plain dealing which is best , so still it does behove you , And therefore set your heart at rest , for it is I that love you . And now henceforth I will give over , to weep for him that jeers me , And his affection I'll abhor , for no true love he bears me , With you I will rejoice my deer , let no false tales remove you , Believe not every news you hear , for it is I that love you . As Hypsocrats of Pontus Queen , did follow her Mithridates , Thorough uncouth woods & forests green so nothing shall separate us : I'll circulate the word with you , nought shall from me remove you , Think not that I speak more than's true for it is I that love you . Nor Lucrece nor Penelope , shall be more chaste than I will , Ere I'll forsake my honesty , ten thousand death's I die will , You need not to repent your choice , but let me true still prove you , And so we shall together rejoice , for it is I that love you . Judge not amiss , because so soon I yield to your requesting , Love is a thing that ought to be done , without any fraud or jesting : You love plain dealing as you say , then why should I disprove you , Against my mind I cant say nay , for it is I that love you . And thus with mind reciprocal , this couple were well matched ; The Parson told the Parish all , and then 'twas quite dispatched ; I hope the love that 'twixt them past , unto delight would move you , Each of them us'd this Phrase toth' last , for it is I that love you . Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . FINIS . 