Advice to Bachelors , OR , The Married men Lamentation . Take heed you that unmarried are , how you do make your choice ; But if a good Wife you do find , 'twill make your heart rejoice . Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we ; Busy Fame ; Marreulus ; or , Jenny Gin . YOu Bachelors that single are , may led a happy life ; For married men are full of care , and Women oft breed strife : As by my late unhappy match , you here may plainly see ; A loving Man and froward Wife will never well agree . Beautys a thing that wins men's hearts and reason so bewitches ; That Men oft let the weaker sort , like fools , to wear the Breeches : And I my self too late lament my Apish foolery ; For if I speak and hasty word , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . I in the morning up must get , or else there is no quiet ; And get her some delicious bit , for she does love good Die I ask her why she'l be profuse ? she cries , what's that to me ? And if another word I use , then heigh Boys , slap goes she . She'l make me rise out of my Bed to let another in ; And if I ask the reason why , a Quarrel does begin ; She'l haul me up and down the house , the like you ne'r did see , I must be silent as a Mouse , or , heigh Boys slap goes she , If I but for my breakfast ask , then does she laugh and jeer ; Perhaps give me a hard dry crust , and strong four-shilling Beer ; She tells me that is good enough for such a Rogue as me ; And if I do but seem to pout , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . She oftentimes does tell me plain , that I do wear the Horns ; Sure e'ry Man does this disdain , and wisemen merely scorns : But since 'tis my unhappy fate , how can it helped be ? But if I chance thereof to prate , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . The Pots and Dishes I must wash , and scour the Irons too ; Nay , and must wash the children's clouts believe me this is true : But those that did the Children get , should slave as well as me [ ; ] And if I chance to vex or fret , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . This is a strange and dismal life , that I poor Man do led ; And when I do consider well , it makes my heart to bleed : But if it goes against the grain , I must contented be ; If in the lest I do complain , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . O that I were a single Man , as I was heretofore ; Or if I were a Widower , I ne'r would Marry more : For I do to my sorrow know , and to my grief I see , When she says I , and I say no , then heigh Boys slap goes she . A thousand times I wish in vain , I ne'r had been begotten ; Then had I been a happy Man , now Cuckold , Fool , and So But once again you Bachelors , take warning now by me : For 'tis a curse to be a Slave , and yet a Cuckold be . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel . Advice to Bachelors , OR , The Married men Lamentation . Take heed you that unmarried are , how you do make your choice ; But if a good Wife you do find , 'twill make your heart rejoice . Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we ; Busy Fame ; Marreulus ; or , Jenny Gin . YOu Bachelors that single are , may led a happy life ; For married men are full of care , and Women oft breed strife : As by my late unhappy match , you here may plainly see ; A loving Man and froward Wife will never well agree . Beautys a thing that wins men's hearts and reason so bewitches ; That Men oft let the weaker sort , like fools , to wear the Breeches : And I my self too late lament my Apish foolery ; For if I speak and hasty word , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . I in the morning up must get , or else there is no quiet ; And get her some delicious bit , for she does love good Die I ask her why she'l be profuse ? she cries , what's that to me ? And if another word I use , then heigh Boys , slap goes she . She'l make me rise out of my Bed to let another in ; And if I ask the reason why , a Quarrel does begin ; She'l haul me up and down the house , the like you ne'r did see , I must be silent as a Mouse , or , heigh Boys slap goes she , If I but for my breakfast ask , then does she laugh and jeer ; Perhaps give me a hard dry crust , and strong four-shilling Beer ; She tells me that is good enough for such a Rogue as me ; And if I do but seem to pout , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . She oftentimes does tell me plain , that I do wear the Horns ; Sure e'ry Man does this disdain , and wisemen merely scorns : But since 'tis my unhappy fate , how can it helped be ? But if I chance thereof to prate , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . The Pots and Dishes I must wash , and scour the Irons too ; Nay , and must wash the children's clouts believe me this is true : But those that did the Children get , should slave as well as me [ ; ] And if I chance to vex or fret , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . This is a strange and dismal life , that I poor Man do led ; And when I do consider well , it makes my heart to bleed : But if it goes against the grain , I must contented be ; If in the lest I do complain , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . O that I were a single Man , as I was heretofore ; Or if I were a Widower , I ne'r would Marry more : For I do to my sorrow know , and to my grief I see , When she says I , and I say no , then heigh Boys slap goes she . A thousand times I wish in vain , I ne'r had been begotten ; Then had I been a happy Man , now Cuckold , Fool , and So But once again you Bachelors , take warning now by me : For 'tis a curse to be a Slave , and yet a Cuckold be . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel . Advice to Bachelors , OR , The Married men Lamentation . Take heed you that unmarried are , how you do make your choice ; But if a good Wife you do find , 'twill make your heart rejoice . Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we ; Busy Fame ; Marreulus ; or , Jenny Gin . YOu Bachelors that single are , may led a happy life ; For married men are full of care , and Women oft breed strife : As by my late unhappy match , you here may plainly see ; A loving Man and froward Wife will never well agree . Beautys a thing that wins men's hearts and reason so bewitches ; That Men oft let the weaker sort , like fools , to wear the Breeches : And I my self too late lament my Apish foolery ; For if I speak and hasty word , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . I in the morning up must get , or else there is no quiet ; And get her some delicious bit , for she does love good Die I ask her why she'l be profuse ? she cries , what's that to me ? And if another word I use , then heigh Boys , slap goes she . She'l make me rise out of my Bed to let another in ; And if I ask the reason why , a Quarrel does begin ; She'l haul me up and down the house , the like you ne'r did see , I must be silent as a Mouse , or , heigh Boys slap goes she , If I but for my breakfast ask , then does she laugh and jeer ; Perhaps give me a hard dry crust , and strong four-shilling Beer ; She tells me that is good enough for such a Rogue as me ; And if I do but seem to pout , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . She oftentimes does tell me plain , that I do wear the Horns ; Sure e'ry Man does this disdain , and wisemen merely scorns : But since 'tis my unhappy fate , how can it helped be ? But if I chance thereof to prate , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . The Pots and Dishes I must wash , and scour the Irons too ; Nay , and must wash the children's clouts believe me this is true : But those that did the Children get , should slave as well as me [ ; ] And if I chance to vex or fret , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . This is a strange and dismal life , that I poor Man do led ; And when I do consider well , it makes my heart to bleed : But if it goes against the grain , I must contented be ; If in the lest I do complain , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . O that I were a single Man , as I was heretofore ; Or if I were a Widower , I ne'r would Marry more : For I do to my sorrow know , and to my grief I see , When she says I , and I say no , then heigh Boys slap goes she . A thousand times I wish in vain , I ne'r had been begotten ; Then had I been a happy Man , now Cuckold , Fool , and So But once again you Bachelors , take warning now by me : For 'tis a curse to be a Slave , and yet a Cuckold be . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel . Advice to Bachelors , OR , The Married men Lamentation . Take heed you that unmarried are , how you do make your choice ; But if a good Wife you do find , 'twill make your heart rejoice . Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we ; Busy Fame ; Marreulus ; or , Jenny Gin . YOu Bachelors that single are , may led a happy life ; For married men are full of care , and Women oft breed strife : As by my late unhappy match , you here may plainly see ; A loving Man and froward Wife will never well agree . Beautys a thing that wins men's hearts and reason so bewitches ; That Men oft let the weaker sort , like fools , to wear the Breeches : And I my self too late lament my Apish foolery ; For if I speak and hasty word , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . I in the morning up must get , or else there is no quiet ; And get her some delicious bit , for she does love good Die I ask her why she'l be profuse ? she cries , what's that to me ? And if another word I use , then heigh Boys , slap goes she . She'l make me rise out of my Bed to let another in ; And if I ask the reason why , a Quarrel does begin ; She'l haul me up and down the house , the like you ne'r did see , I must be silent as a Mouse , or , heigh Boys slap goes she , If I but for my breakfast ask , then does she laugh and jeer ; Perhaps give me a hard dry crust , and strong four-shilling Beer ; She tells me that is good enough for such a Rogue as me ; And if I do but seem to pout , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . She oftentimes does tell me plain , that I do wear the Horns ; Sure e'ry Man does this disdain , and wisemen merely scorns : But since 'tis my unhappy fate , how can it helped be ? But if I chance thereof to prate , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . The Pots and Dishes I must wash , and scour the Irons too ; Nay , and must wash the children's clouts believe me this is true : But those that did the Children get , should slave as well as me [ ; ] And if I chance to vex or fret , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . This is a strange and dismal life , that I poor Man do led ; And when I do consider well , it makes my heart to bleed : But if it goes against the grain , I must contented be ; If in the lest I do complain , then , heigh Boys , slap goes she . O that I were a single Man , as I was heretofore ; Or if I were a Widower , I ne'r would Marry more : For I do to my sorrow know , and to my grief I see , When she says I , and I say no , then heigh Boys slap goes she . A thousand times I wish in vain , I ne'r had been begotten ; Then had I been a happy Man , now Cuckold , Fool , and So But once again you Bachelors , take warning now by me : For 'tis a curse to be a Slave , and yet a Cuckold be . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel . 