The Jovial Broom man : OR , A Kenned street Soldiers exact relation , Of all his Travels in Every Nation , His famous acts are all shown here , As in this story does appear . To the tune of slow men of London . ROome for a Lad that's come from seas , Heigh jolly Broom-man , That gladly now would take his ease , And therefore make me room man . To France , the Netherlands , Denmark , Spaine , Heigh jolly Broom man , I crossed the seas , and back again , And therefore make me room man . Yet in these Countries lived I , Heigh jolly Broom man , And see many a valiant soldier die , And therefore give me room man . And hundred gallants there I kil'd , Heigh jolly Broom man . And beside a world of blood I spilled , And therefore make me room man . In Germany I took a town , Heigh jolly Broom man , I threw the walls there up side down , And therefore make me room man . And when that I the same had done , Heigh jolly Broom man , I made the people all to run , And therefore make , etc And when the people all were gone , Heigh , etc I held the town my self alone , And therefore , etc , When valiant Ajax fought with Hector , Heigh , etc I made them friends with a bowl of Nectar , And therefore , etc The Second Part. To the same tune . WHen Saturne warr'd against the Sun , Heigh , etc Then through my help the field he wone , And therefore , etc With Hercules I tossed the Club , Heigh , etc I rol'd Diogenes in a Tub , And therefore , etc , When Tamberlaine overcame the Turke , Heigh , etc I blew up thousands in a work , And therefore , etc When Caesars pomp I overthrew , Heigh , etc Then many a Roman Lord I slew . And therefore , etc When the Ammorites besieg'd Room walls , Heigh , etc I drove them back with fiery balls , And therefore , etc And when the Greeks besieged Troy , Heigh , etc I rescued off dame Hellens joy , And therefore , etc And when that I had wone this fame , Heigh , etc I was honor'd of all men for the same , And therefore , etc At Tilbury Camp with Captain Drake , Heigh , etc I made the Spanish Fleet to quake , And therefore , etc At Hollands leaguer there I fought , Heigh , etc But there the service prov'd too hight , And therefore , etc , Then from the leaguer returned I , Heigh , etc Naked , Hungry , cold , and dry , And therefore , etc But here I have now compassed the Globe , Heigh , etc I am back return'd as poor as Job , And therefore , etc And now I am safe returned back , Heigh , etc Heres to you in a cup of Canary Sack , And therefore , etc And now I am safe returned here , Heigh , etc Here's to you in a cup of English Beer , And therefore , etc And if my travels you desire to see , Heigh , etc You may buy't for a penny here of me , And hereafter make me room man . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . FINIS . R . C [ . ] The Jovial Broom man : OR , A Kenned street Soldiers exact relation , Of all his Travels in Every Nation , His famous acts are all shown here , As in this story does appear . To the tune of slow men of London . ROome for a Lad that's come from seas , Heigh jolly Broom-man , That gladly now would take his ease , And therefore make me room man . To France , the Netherlands , Denmark , Spaine , Heigh jolly Broom man , I crossed the seas , and back again , And therefore make me room man . Yet in these Countries lived I , Heigh jolly Broom man , And see many a valiant soldier die , And therefore give me room man . And hundred gallants there I kil'd , Heigh jolly Broom man . And beside a world of blood I spilled , And therefore make me room man . In Germany I took a town , Heigh jolly Broom man , I threw the walls there up side down , And therefore make me room man . And when that I the same had done , Heigh jolly Broom man , I made the people all to run , And therefore make , etc And when the people all were gone , Heigh , etc I held the town my self alone , And therefore , etc , When valiant Ajax fought with Hector , Heigh , etc I made them friends with a bowl of Nectar , And therefore , etc The Second Part. To the same tune . WHen Saturne warr'd against the Sun , Heigh , etc Then through my help the field he wone , And therefore , etc With Hercules I tossed the Club , Heigh , etc I rol'd Diogenes in a Tub , And therefore , etc , When Tamberlaine overcame the Turke , Heigh , etc I blew up thousands in a work , And therefore , etc When Caesars pomp I overthrew , Heigh , etc Then many a Roman Lord I slew . And therefore , etc When the Ammorites besieg'd Room walls , Heigh , etc I drove them back with fiery balls , And therefore , etc And when the Greeks besieged Troy , Heigh , etc I rescued off dame Hellens joy , And therefore , etc And when that I had wone this fame , Heigh , etc I was honor'd of all men for the same , And therefore , etc At Tilbury Camp with Captain Drake , Heigh , etc I made the Spanish Fleet to quake , And therefore , etc At Hollands leaguer there I fought , Heigh , etc But there the service prov'd too hight , And therefore , etc , Then from the leaguer returned I , Heigh , etc Naked , Hungry , cold , and dry , And therefore , etc But here I have now compassed the Globe , Heigh , etc I am back return'd as poor as Job , And therefore , etc And now I am safe returned back , Heigh , etc Heres to you in a cup of Canary Sack , And therefore , etc And now I am safe returned here , Heigh , etc Here's to you in a cup of English Beer , And therefore , etc And if my travels you desire to see , Heigh , etc You may buy't for a penny here of me , And hereafter make me room man . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . FINIS . R . C [ . ] The Jovial Broom man : OR , A Kenned street Soldiers exact relation , Of all his Travels in Every Nation , His famous acts are all shown here , As in this story does appear . To the tune of slow men of London . ROome for a Lad that's come from seas , Heigh jolly Broom-man , That gladly now would take his ease , And therefore make me room man . To France , the Netherlands , Denmark , Spaine , Heigh jolly Broom man , I crossed the seas , and back again , And therefore make me room man . Yet in these Countries lived I , Heigh jolly Broom man , And see many a valiant soldier die , And therefore give me room man . And hundred gallants there I kil'd , Heigh jolly Broom man . And beside a world of blood I spilled , And therefore make me room man . In Germany I took a town , Heigh jolly Broom man , I threw the walls there up side down , And therefore make me room man . And when that I the same had done , Heigh jolly Broom man , I made the people all to run , And therefore make , etc And when the people all were gone , Heigh , etc I held the town my self alone , And therefore , etc , When valiant Ajax fought with Hector , Heigh , etc I made them friends with a bowl of Nectar , And therefore , etc The Second Part. To the same tune . WHen Saturne warr'd against the Sun , Heigh , etc Then through my help the field he wone , And therefore , etc With Hercules I tossed the Club , Heigh , etc I rol'd Diogenes in a Tub , And therefore , etc , When Tamberlaine overcame the Turke , Heigh , etc I blew up thousands in a work , And therefore , etc When Caesars pomp I overthrew , Heigh , etc Then many a Roman Lord I slew . And therefore , etc When the Ammorites besieg'd Room walls , Heigh , etc I drove them back with fiery balls , And therefore , etc And when the Greeks besieged Troy , Heigh , etc I rescued off dame Hellens joy , And therefore , etc And when that I had wone this fame , Heigh , etc I was honor'd of all men for the same , And therefore , etc At Tilbury Camp with Captain Drake , Heigh , etc I made the Spanish Fleet to quake , And therefore , etc At Hollands leaguer there I fought , Heigh , etc But there the service prov'd too hight , And therefore , etc , Then from the leaguer returned I , Heigh , etc Naked , Hungry , cold , and dry , And therefore , etc But here I have now compassed the Globe , Heigh , etc I am back return'd as poor as Job , And therefore , etc And now I am safe returned back , Heigh , etc Heres to you in a cup of Canary Sack , And therefore , etc And now I am safe returned here , Heigh , etc Here's to you in a cup of English Beer , And therefore , etc And if my travels you desire to see , Heigh , etc You may buy't for a penny here of me , And hereafter make me room man . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . FINIS . R . C [ . ] The Jovial Broom man : OR , A Kenned street Soldiers exact relation , Of all his Travels in Every Nation , His famous acts are all shown here , As in this story does appear . To the tune of slow men of London . ROome for a Lad that's come from seas , Heigh jolly Broom-man , That gladly now would take his ease , And therefore make me room man . To France , the Netherlands , Denmark , Spaine , Heigh jolly Broom man , I crossed the seas , and back again , And therefore make me room man . Yet in these Countries lived I , Heigh jolly Broom man , And see many a valiant soldier die , And therefore give me room man . And hundred gallants there I kil'd , Heigh jolly Broom man . And beside a world of blood I spilled , And therefore make me room man . In Germany I took a town , Heigh jolly Broom man , I threw the walls there up side down , And therefore make me room man . And when that I the same had done , Heigh jolly Broom man , I made the people all to run , And therefore make , etc And when the people all were gone , Heigh , etc I held the town my self alone , And therefore , etc , When valiant Ajax fought with Hector , Heigh , etc I made them friends with a bowl of Nectar , And therefore , etc The Second Part. To the same tune . WHen Saturne warr'd against the Sun , Heigh , etc Then through my help the field he wone , And therefore , etc With Hercules I tossed the Club , Heigh , etc I rol'd Diogenes in a Tub , And therefore , etc , When Tamberlaine overcame the Turke , Heigh , etc I blew up thousands in a work , And therefore , etc When Caesars pomp I overthrew , Heigh , etc Then many a Roman Lord I slew . And therefore , etc When the Ammorites besieg'd Room walls , Heigh , etc I drove them back with fiery balls , And therefore , etc And when the Greeks besieged Troy , Heigh , etc I rescued off dame Hellens joy , And therefore , etc And when that I had wone this fame , Heigh , etc I was honor'd of all men for the same , And therefore , etc At Tilbury Camp with Captain Drake , Heigh , etc I made the Spanish Fleet to quake , And therefore , etc At Hollands leaguer there I fought , Heigh , etc But there the service prov'd too hight , And therefore , etc , Then from the leaguer returned I , Heigh , etc Naked , Hungry , cold , and dry , And therefore , etc But here I have now compassed the Globe , Heigh , etc I am back return'd as poor as Job , And therefore , etc And now I am safe returned back , Heigh , etc Heres to you in a cup of Canary Sack , And therefore , etc And now I am safe returned here , Heigh , etc Here's to you in a cup of English Beer , And therefore , etc And if my travels you desire to see , Heigh , etc You may buy't for a penny here of me , And hereafter make me room man . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . FINIS . R . C [ . ] 