A new Song , called Jacke Doves Resolution , by which he does show , That he cares not a rush how ere the world go . To the tune of , To drive the cold winter away . TO all my good Friends , these presents I send , yet neither to beg nor to crave , For though some have store , and I am but poor , I'me content with that little I have ; And I'll never for my want , turn Sycophant , ( though many there be that doe so ) But I'll honest bee , love them that loves me , and care not how ere the world go . And though fortune frown , I'll not cast my self down but mildly bear what does fallen ; Care will make me but worse , and never fill my purse , but the day may come will mend all , Then this but a folly , for that to be sorry , which must be whither I will or no ; But impatience in rest , then I'll hope for the best and care not how ere the world go . For why should a man care , or drown in despair , though his fortune's be never so unkind ? Why should I be sad , for what I never had , or foolishly trouble my mind ? O no I do hate , to pine at my fate , there is none but fools will do so , I'll laugh and be fat , for care kills a Cat , and I care not how ere the world go . To sighs and to wail , what will it prevail , or any whit better my fare , When a little good mirth , mong'st friends , is more worth , and better then a great deal of care ; Then I'll cheer up my self , for content is great wealth let sighing and sorrowing go , I'll laugh and be merry , with a cup of old Sherry , and care not how ere the world go . Though many a Chuff , hath more then enough , why should I repine at their bliss ? If I am content with what God hath sent , I think I do not amiss : Let others have wealth , so I have my health , and money to pay what I owe , I'll laugh and be merry , sing down a down derry , and care not how ere the world go . I'll make much of one , for when I am gone , then whats all the world unto me ? I'll not be a slave , to that which I have , but mong'st my friends let it flee , And lest there rise debate , about my estate , when my heads laid full low , Or some knaves circumvent it , to whom I never meant it I'll spend it , how ere the world go . The second part , To the same tune . SOme Men do suppose , to go in brave Clothes , does purchase a great deal of respect ; Though I am but poor , I run not on score , I think my self honestly deck Let others go brave this my own that I have , and I think they can not say so . And I like that I wear , though it cost not so deer , and I care not how ere the world go . I'de rather go mean , then be like to them , which living in pomp and state , Maintain all their bravery , with private knavery , getting gold at any rate : Such conscience profess , but use nothing less , deceiving the world with a show , But the time it may come [ e ] will pay such knaves home . but I care not how ere the world go . Your delicate Cates , your Hippocrites eats , and Wine of the best do drink Much money they spend , but to little end , and ne're on their end they think : Low Shrubs be secure , when Cedars endure all storms and tempests that blow , Let others rise high , but so will not I , for I care not how ere the world go . For ambitions best scene , is but a fine dream , which for a time tickles the mind , And the hap of and hour , with such envy may lower , as may turn all ones hope into wind , Then worse then before , they may sighs and deplore to see themselves cast off so low , When I all the while , do fit and smile , and care not how ere the world go . The flattering Curs , which fawn upon furs , and hang on the Nobleman's beck , That crouch at their heel , while their bounty they feel professing all love and respect , Yet when they do fallen , they run away all , but I hate to dissemble so What I do for my part , shall come from my heart , and I care not how ere the world go . I'll wrong none not I , but if some through envy , do wrong me without a cause , Or if me they disdain , I'll slight them again , and reckon not of it two straws : Dissembling I scorn , for I am free born , my happiness lies not below , Though my words they want art , I speak from m [ y ] hear [ tO ] and I care not how ere the world go . FINIS . G.B. Printed at London for John Wright and are to be sold at his shop in Giltspur-street at the sign of the Bible A new Song , called Jacke Doves Resolution , by which he does show , That he cares not a rush how ere the world go . To the tune of , To drive the cold winter away . TO all my good Friends , these presents I send , yet neither to beg nor to crave , For though some have store , and I am but poor , I'me content with that little I have ; And I'll never for my want , turn Sycophant , ( though many there be that doe so ) But I'll honest bee , love them that loves me , and care not how ere the world go . And though fortune frown , I'll not cast my self down but mildly bear what does fallen ; Care will make me but worse , and never fill my purse , but the day may come will mend all , Then this but a folly , for that to be sorry , which must be whither I will or no ; But impatience in rest , then I'll hope for the best and care not how ere the world go . For why should a man care , or drown in despair , though his fortune's be never so unkind ? Why should I be sad , for what I never had , or foolishly trouble my mind ? O no I do hate , to pine at my fate , there is none but fools will do so , I'll laugh and be fat , for care kills a Cat , and I care not how ere the world go . To sighs and to wail , what will it prevail , or any whit better my fare , When a little good mirth , mong'st friends , is more worth , and better then a great deal of care ; Then I'll cheer up my self , for content is great wealth let sighing and sorrowing go , I'll laugh and be merry , with a cup of old Sherry , and care not how ere the world go . Though many a Chuff , hath more then enough , why should I repine at their bliss ? If I am content with what God hath sent , I think I do not amiss : Let others have wealth , so I have my health , and money to pay what I owe , I'll laugh and be merry , sing down a down derry , and care not how ere the world go . I'll make much of one , for when I am gone , then whats all the world unto me ? I'll not be a slave , to that which I have , but mong'st my friends let it flee , And lest there rise debate , about my estate , when my heads laid full low , Or some knaves circumvent it , to whom I never meant it I'll spend it , how ere the world go . The second part , To the same tune . SOme Men do suppose , to go in brave Clothes , does purchase a great deal of respect ; Though I am but poor , I run not on score , I think my self honestly deck Let others go brave this my own that I have , and I think they can not say so . And I like that I wear , though it cost not so deer , and I care not how ere the world go . I'de rather go mean , then be like to them , which living in pomp and state , Maintain all their bravery , with private knavery , getting gold at any rate : Such conscience profess , but use nothing less , deceiving the world with a show , But the time it may come [ e ] will pay such knaves home . but I care not how ere the world go . Your delicate Cates , your Hippocrites eats , and Wine of the best do drink Much money they spend , but to little end , and ne're on their end they think : Low Shrubs be secure , when Cedars endure all storms and tempests that blow , Let others rise high , but so will not I , for I care not how ere the world go . For ambitions best scene , is but a fine dream , which for a time tickles the mind , And the hap of and hour , with such envy may lower , as may turn all ones hope into wind , Then worse then before , they may sighs and deplore to see themselves cast off so low , When I all the while , do fit and smile , and care not how ere the world go . The flattering Curs , which fawn upon furs , and hang on the Nobleman's beck , That crouch at their heel , while their bounty they feel professing all love and respect , Yet when they do fallen , they run away all , but I hate to dissemble so What I do for my part , shall come from my heart , and I care not how ere the world go . I'll wrong none not I , but if some through envy , do wrong me without a cause , Or if me they disdain , I'll slight them again , and reckon not of it two straws : Dissembling I scorn , for I am free born , my happiness lies not below , Though my words they want art , I speak from m [ y ] hear [ tO ] and I care not how ere the world go . FINIS . G.B. Printed at London for John Wright and are to be sold at his shop in Giltspur-street at the sign of the Bible A new Song , called Jacke Doves Resolution , by which he does show , That he cares not a rush how ere the world go . To the tune of , To drive the cold winter away . TO all my good Friends , these presents I send , yet neither to beg nor to crave , For though some have store , and I am but poor , I'me content with that little I have ; And I'll never for my want , turn Sycophant , ( though many there be that doe so ) But I'll honest bee , love them that loves me , and care not how ere the world go . And though fortune frown , I'll not cast my self down but mildly bear what does fallen ; Care will make me but worse , and never fill my purse , but the day may come will mend all , Then this but a folly , for that to be sorry , which must be whither I will or no ; But impatience in rest , then I'll hope for the best and care not how ere the world go . For why should a man care , or drown in despair , though his fortune's be never so unkind ? Why should I be sad , for what I never had , or foolishly trouble my mind ? O no I do hate , to pine at my fate , there is none but fools will do so , I'll laugh and be fat , for care kills a Cat , and I care not how ere the world go . To sighs and to wail , what will it prevail , or any whit better my fare , When a little good mirth , mong'st friends , is more worth , and better then a great deal of care ; Then I'll cheer up my self , for content is great wealth let sighing and sorrowing go , I'll laugh and be merry , with a cup of old Sherry , and care not how ere the world go . Though many a Chuff , hath more then enough , why should I repine at their bliss ? If I am content with what God hath sent , I think I do not amiss : Let others have wealth , so I have my health , and money to pay what I owe , I'll laugh and be merry , sing down a down derry , and care not how ere the world go . I'll make much of one , for when I am gone , then whats all the world unto me ? I'll not be a slave , to that which I have , but mong'st my friends let it flee , And lest there rise debate , about my estate , when my heads laid full low , Or some knaves circumvent it , to whom I never meant it I'll spend it , how ere the world go . The second part , To the same tune . SOme Men do suppose , to go in brave Clothes , does purchase a great deal of respect ; Though I am but poor , I run not on score , I think my self honestly deck Let others go brave this my own that I have , and I think they can not say so . And I like that I wear , though it cost not so deer , and I care not how ere the world go . I'de rather go mean , then be like to them , which living in pomp and state , Maintain all their bravery , with private knavery , getting gold at any rate : Such conscience profess , but use nothing less , deceiving the world with a show , But the time it may come [ e ] will pay such knaves home . but I care not how ere the world go . Your delicate Cates , your Hippocrites eats , and Wine of the best do drink Much money they spend , but to little end , and ne're on their end they think : Low Shrubs be secure , when Cedars endure all storms and tempests that blow , Let others rise high , but so will not I , for I care not how ere the world go . For ambitions best scene , is but a fine dream , which for a time tickles the mind , And the hap of and hour , with such envy may lower , as may turn all ones hope into wind , Then worse then before , they may sighs and deplore to see themselves cast off so low , When I all the while , do fit and smile , and care not how ere the world go . The flattering Curs , which fawn upon furs , and hang on the Nobleman's beck , That crouch at their heel , while their bounty they feel professing all love and respect , Yet when they do fallen , they run away all , but I hate to dissemble so What I do for my part , shall come from my heart , and I care not how ere the world go . I'll wrong none not I , but if some through envy , do wrong me without a cause , Or if me they disdain , I'll slight them again , and reckon not of it two straws : Dissembling I scorn , for I am free born , my happiness lies not below , Though my words they want art , I speak from m [ y ] hear [ tO ] and I care not how ere the world go . FINIS . G.B. Printed at London for John Wright and are to be sold at his shop in Giltspur-street at the sign of the Bible A new Song , called Jacke Doves Resolution , by which he does show , That he cares not a rush how ere the world go . To the tune of , To drive the cold winter away . TO all my good Friends , these presents I send , yet neither to beg nor to crave , For though some have store , and I am but poor , I'me content with that little I have ; And I'll never for my want , turn Sycophant , ( though many there be that doe so ) But I'll honest bee , love them that loves me , and care not how ere the world go . And though fortune frown , I'll not cast my self down but mildly bear what does fallen ; Care will make me but worse , and never fill my purse , but the day may come will mend all , Then this but a folly , for that to be sorry , which must be whither I will or no ; But impatience in rest , then I'll hope for the best and care not how ere the world go . For why should a man care , or drown in despair , though his fortune's be never so unkind ? Why should I be sad , for what I never had , or foolishly trouble my mind ? O no I do hate , to pine at my fate , there is none but fools will do so , I'll laugh and be fat , for care kills a Cat , and I care not how ere the world go . To sighs and to wail , what will it prevail , or any whit better my fare , When a little good mirth , mong'st friends , is more worth , and better then a great deal of care ; Then I'll cheer up my self , for content is great wealth let sighing and sorrowing go , I'll laugh and be merry , with a cup of old Sherry , and care not how ere the world go . Though many a Chuff , hath more then enough , why should I repine at their bliss ? If I am content with what God hath sent , I think I do not amiss : Let others have wealth , so I have my health , and money to pay what I owe , I'll laugh and be merry , sing down a down derry , and care not how ere the world go . I'll make much of one , for when I am gone , then whats all the world unto me ? I'll not be a slave , to that which I have , but mong'st my friends let it flee , And lest there rise debate , about my estate , when my heads laid full low , Or some knaves circumvent it , to whom I never meant it I'll spend it , how ere the world go . The second part , To the same tune . SOme Men do suppose , to go in brave Clothes , does purchase a great deal of respect ; Though I am but poor , I run not on score , I think my self honestly deck Let others go brave this my own that I have , and I think they can not say so . And I like that I wear , though it cost not so deer , and I care not how ere the world go . I'de rather go mean , then be like to them , which living in pomp and state , Maintain all their bravery , with private knavery , getting gold at any rate : Such conscience profess , but use nothing less , deceiving the world with a show , But the time it may come [ e ] will pay such knaves home . but I care not how ere the world go . Your delicate Cates , your Hippocrites eats , and Wine of the best do drink Much money they spend , but to little end , and ne're on their end they think : Low Shrubs be secure , when Cedars endure all storms and tempests that blow , Let others rise high , but so will not I , for I care not how ere the world go . For ambitions best scene , is but a fine dream , which for a time tickles the mind , And the hap of and hour , with such envy may lower , as may turn all ones hope into wind , Then worse then before , they may sighs and deplore to see themselves cast off so low , When I all the while , do fit and smile , and care not how ere the world go . The flattering Curs , which fawn upon furs , and hang on the Nobleman's beck , That crouch at their heel , while their bounty they feel professing all love and respect , Yet when they do fallen , they run away all , but I hate to dissemble so What I do for my part , shall come from my heart , and I care not how ere the world go . I'll wrong none not I , but if some through envy , do wrong me without a cause , Or if me they disdain , I'll slight them again , and reckon not of it two straws : Dissembling I scorn , for I am free born , my happiness lies not below , Though my words they want art , I speak from m [ y ] hear [ tO ] and I care not how ere the world go . FINIS . G.B. Printed at London for John Wright and are to be sold at his shop in Giltspur-street at the sign of the Bible 