The Kind believing Hostess . I owe my Hostess money , She takes me for her debtor , On the buttery door Stands my Score , The further on the better . To the tune of , When Willy once had strayed . I Have and Hostess pretty , exceeding fair and witty , Where she does dwell I shall you tell If you will list to my ditty . I owe my Hostess money , she takes me for her Debtor : on the buttery door stands my Score , the further on the better . Near London is her dwelling , To trust me she is willing , Her pots are small , And little withal , But I will look to her filling . I owe my Hostess money , etc To me she bears affection , And calls me her own complexion , Her husband John Poor silly old man , She keeps under subjection . I owe my Hostess money , etc To speak poor man he dares not , My Hostess for him cares not , Sheele drink and quaff , And merrily laugh , And she his anger fears not . I owe my Hostess money , etc All night she will fit smoking , For roaring gallants looking : And those which stay , Are sure to pay , I do not like such rooking , I owe my Hostess money , etc Tobacco and hight waters , And female rooking Cheaters , Are bravely dressed , But I protest , I hate such sharking Creatures . I owe my Hostess money , etc Shee keeps both Besse and Dolly , Brave wenches stout and Jolly , But I'll have a care Of them to beware , I know they are given to folly . I owe my Hostess money , etc Thei'le trade with Dutch and Danish The French and lustful Spanish , But when the whores Come in a doors , Away I bid them vanish . I owe my Hostess money , etc I'me sure they shall not cheat me . I care not though they hate me , Like Crocodiles , Their tears and smiles Shall not a fool create me . I owe my Hostess money She takes me for her debtor , On the buttery door Stands my Score , The further on the better . The second part To the same tune . THe truth for to speak rightly , They get their money lightly , By lustful sin , Comes Jyngling in . Unto them day and nightly . I owe my Hostess money , etc Ther's swaggering Nathaniel With roaring Jacke and Daniel , For their delight , That loves to keep , A Hawk , a Horse , a Spaniel , I owe my Hostess money , etc Ther's swearing Sim and Sanders , Are new come over from Flanders , That swears and roars And beats the Whores , Yet never were commanders . I owe my Hostess money , etc You may have for your money , A Rabit or young Coney , Most dainty words , Her love affords , Sheele call you her own sweet honey , I owe my Hostess money , etc If you on the sport be eager , And that you will not swagger , Kind Gentlemen You need not then , Go unto Hollands Leaguer . I owe my Hostess money , etc For Wenches she can get ye And of all sorts can fit ye , Most bravely clad , As may be had , If leisure but permit ye , I owe my Hostess money , etc A Girl attir'd in Satin , Can speak both French and Latin , If you have gold You may be bold , And have a fine room to chat in . I owe my Hostess money , etc A Country Lass thats pretty , Or one fetched from the City , Or for your sport , One tall or short , A handsome Wench thats witty , I owe my Hostess money , etc If so believing am ye , As for the rest Oh dam ye , But will be kind Unto your mind The Whores will finely flame ye , I owe my Hostess money , etc By others harms be warned , With wisdoms eye discern it . And have a care You come not there , From them the French to learn it . I owe my Hostess money , etc With honey words I will screw her ; And many a fine trick show her , I'll keep me away , When she is to pay , Her Baker and her Brewer . I owe my Hostess money , She takes me for her debtor : and looks for the day when her I should pay , the more it is still the better . FINIS . London . Printed for B.B. The Kind believing Hostess . I owe my Hostess money , She takes me for her debtor , On the buttery door Stands my Score , The further on the better . To the tune of , When Willy once had strayed . I Have and Hostess pretty , exceeding fair and witty , Where she does dwell I shall you tell If you will list to my ditty . I owe my Hostess money , she takes me for her Debtor : on the buttery door stands my Score , the further on the better . Near London is her dwelling , To trust me she is willing , Her pots are small , And little withal , But I will look to her filling . I owe my Hostess money , etc To me she bears affection , And calls me her own complexion , Her husband John Poor silly old man , She keeps under subjection . I owe my Hostess money , etc To speak poor man he dares not , My Hostess for him cares not , Sheele drink and quaff , And merrily laugh , And she his anger fears not . I owe my Hostess money , etc All night she will fit smoking , For roaring gallants looking : And those which stay , Are sure to pay , I do not like such rooking , I owe my Hostess money , etc Tobacco and hight waters , And female rooking Cheaters , Are bravely dressed , But I protest , I hate such sharking Creatures . I owe my Hostess money , etc Shee keeps both Besse and Dolly , Brave wenches stout and Jolly , But I'll have a care Of them to beware , I know they are given to folly . I owe my Hostess money , etc Thei'le trade with Dutch and Danish The French and lustful Spanish , But when the whores Come in a doors , Away I bid them vanish . I owe my Hostess money , etc I'me sure they shall not cheat me . I care not though they hate me , Like Crocodiles , Their tears and smiles Shall not a fool create me . I owe my Hostess money She takes me for her debtor , On the buttery door Stands my Score , The further on the better . The second part To the same tune . THe truth for to speak rightly , They get their money lightly , By lustful sin , Comes Jyngling in . Unto them day and nightly . I owe my Hostess money , etc Ther's swaggering Nathaniel With roaring Jacke and Daniel , For their delight , That loves to keep , A Hawk , a Horse , a Spaniel , I owe my Hostess money , etc Ther's swearing Sim and Sanders , Are new come over from Flanders , That swears and roars And beats the Whores , Yet never were commanders . I owe my Hostess money , etc You may have for your money , A Rabit or young Coney , Most dainty words , Her love affords , Sheele call you her own sweet honey , I owe my Hostess money , etc If you on the sport be eager , And that you will not swagger , Kind Gentlemen You need not then , Go unto Hollands Leaguer . I owe my Hostess money , etc For Wenches she can get ye And of all sorts can fit ye , Most bravely clad , As may be had , If leisure but permit ye , I owe my Hostess money , etc A Girl attir'd in Satin , Can speak both French and Latin , If you have gold You may be bold , And have a fine room to chat in . I owe my Hostess money , etc A Country Lass thats pretty , Or one fetched from the City , Or for your sport , One tall or short , A handsome Wench thats witty , I owe my Hostess money , etc If so believing am ye , As for the rest Oh dam ye , But will be kind Unto your mind The Whores will finely flame ye , I owe my Hostess money , etc By others harms be warned , With wisdoms eye discern it . And have a care You come not there , From them the French to learn it . I owe my Hostess money , etc With honey words I will screw her ; And many a fine trick show her , I'll keep me away , When she is to pay , Her Baker and her Brewer . I owe my Hostess money , She takes me for her debtor : and looks for the day when her I should pay , the more it is still the better . FINIS . London . Printed for B.B. 