Amintor's lamentation for [ Celi ] a's [ unkindness ] Setting forth the passion of a Young man , who falling in love with a coy Lady that had no kindness for him , pursued his inclinations so far , that she was forced to fly beyond Sea , to avoid the importunity of his Ad - dress , whereupon he thus complains . Both Sexes from this Song may learn , of what they should beware : How in extremes they may discern , Unkindness and despair . To a delicate New Tune : Or , Since Celias my foe . SInce Celia's my Foe , To a Desert I'll go , Where some River for ever shall echo my Woe ! The Trees will appear More relenting than her , In the morning , adorning , each Leaf with a tear . When I make my sad moan , To the Rocks all alone , From each hollow Will follow some pitiful groan : But with silent disdain , She requites all my pain : To my mourning , returning , no answer again . O why was I born , To a Fate so forlorn , To inherit , Not merit her anger , or scorn : My affection is such , As no blemish can touch , Yet i'm slighted , and spighted for loving too much . Perhaps cou'd I prove , More unjust to my love , I might find her , yet kinder , and pity might move , But i'le choose to obey , Tho' I die by the way ; Yet 'tis better , Than get her , by going astray . THen why shou'd you sty , My fair Celia ? O why ? When to please you 'tis easy , for Amintas to die . If your Lover you'd shun , You no danger shall run , Him you banish will vanish , And from you be gone . Stay Celia unkind , Will you leave me behind , Let me enter , and venture my self with the Wind. Ah! from me will you part , Who so love your desert ? Either tarry , Or carry your slave with his heart . Were you but secure , I'de your absence endure , Were all danger a stranger to Virgins so pure : But some insolent wave , May your merit outbrave , Both regardless , and careless What virtues you have . Yet Storms shall not dare , To assault one so fair , To attend you i'le send you , sighs softer than air : The Nymphs of the Deep , My dear Celia shall keep , On a Pillow , each Billow Shall lull you asleep . The Seas they shall dance , And the Winds shall advance , With your Galley To dally , and guide you to France ; While I from the Shore , My fair Idol adore ; Till that Neptune your Captain , Hath wafted you o're . Then Celia adieu , When I cease to pursue , You'l discover No Lover was ever so true , Your sad Shepherd flies From those dear cruel eyes , Which not seeing his being , Decays and he die . Yet 'tis better to run To the fates we can't shun , Then for ever T'endeavor what cannot be wone : What you Gods have I done That Amintor alone , Is thus treated , and hated for loving but one ? And thus I complain , Though 'tis all but in vain , Yet the trouble is double , to stifle my pain : The Sea or the Shore , I as well might implore ; They'r as moving , and loving as her I adore . Then since 'tis the fate Of my wretched estate , Without pity , 'Tis fit I submit to her hate . For as Winter comes on When Apollo is gone , So declining , and pining , She leaves me alone . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-gate in West-smithfield . Amintor's lamentation for [ Celi ] a's [ unkindness ] Setting forth the passion of a Young man , who falling in love with a coy Lady that had no kindness for him , pursued his inclinations so far , that she was forced to fly beyond Sea , to avoid the importunity of his Ad - dress , whereupon he thus complains . Both Sexes from this Song may learn , of what they should beware : How in extremes they may discern , Unkindness and despair . To a delicate New Tune : Or , Since Celias my foe . SInce Celia's my Foe , To a Desert I'll go , Where some River for ever shall echo my Woe ! The Trees will appear More relenting than her , In the morning , adorning , each Leaf with a tear . When I make my sad moan , To the Rocks all alone , From each hollow Will follow some pitiful groan : But with silent disdain , She requites all my pain : To my mourning , returning , no answer again . O why was I born , To a Fate so forlorn , To inherit , Not merit her anger , or scorn : My affection is such , As no blemish can touch , Yet i'm slighted , and spighted for loving too much . Perhaps cou'd I prove , More unjust to my love , I might find her , yet kinder , and pity might move , But i'le choose to obey , Tho' I die by the way ; Yet 'tis better , Than get her , by going astray . THen why shou'd you sty , My fair Celia ? O why ? When to please you 'tis easy , for Amintas to die . If your Lover you'd shun , You no danger shall run , Him you banish will vanish , And from you be gone . Stay Celia unkind , Will you leave me behind , Let me enter , and venture my self with the Wind. Ah! from me will you part , Who so love your desert ? Either tarry , Or carry your slave with his heart . Were you but secure , I'de your absence endure , Were all danger a stranger to Virgins so pure : But some insolent wave , May your merit outbrave , Both regardless , and careless What virtues you have . Yet Storms shall not dare , To assault one so fair , To attend you i'le send you , sighs softer than air : The Nymphs of the Deep , My dear Celia shall keep , On a Pillow , each Billow Shall lull you asleep . The Seas they shall dance , And the Winds shall advance , With your Galley To dally , and guide you to France ; While I from the Shore , My fair Idol adore ; Till that Neptune your Captain , Hath wafted you o're . Then Celia adieu , When I cease to pursue , You'l discover No Lover was ever so true , Your sad Shepherd flies From those dear cruel eyes , Which not seeing his being , Decays and he die . Yet 'tis better to run To the fates we can't shun , Then for ever T'endeavor what cannot be wone : What you Gods have I done That Amintor alone , Is thus treated , and hated for loving but one ? And thus I complain , Though 'tis all but in vain , Yet the trouble is double , to stifle my pain : The Sea or the Shore , I as well might implore ; They'r as moving , and loving as her I adore . Then since 'tis the fate Of my wretched estate , Without pity , 'Tis fit I submit to her hate . For as Winter comes on When Apollo is gone , So declining , and pining , She leaves me alone . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-gate in West-smithfield . 