All is ours and our HUSBANDS , Or the Country Hostesses VINDICATION . She durst not Scold 'tis counted for and Evil. Sheel cheat and whore , and yet be counted civil ; Sheel fill her Pockets by poor Drunkards Losses , And send them all to Jail by weeping Crosses . To the Tune , of the Carmans Whistle , Or High Boys up go we . COme all you Tribes of Hostises , That Women against doe rail , Come lend me some of your advice Their glamorous Tongues to quail ; And I will make it plain appear By nothing but what is true , That all that we get in the Year Is nothing but what's our Endue . For if and honest Compay Of boon good fellows come : And call for Liquour merrily In any private Room : Then if I fill the Jugs with Froth Or cheat them of one or two If I can swear them out of both The Reckoning is my endue . Or if a shurking Fellow come That have no money at all And take up any of my Room And for my Liquour call : Then if I take away their Coat Let it be old or new : Or worth a Crown more than thee shot , 'Tis nothing but what's my Endue . And some their are that are so bold , To swear that I must trust , When once my drink they have they think That then be sure we mus From such the Court or common Law , What ? ere their Wives ensue Shall make their Arse to lie in Straw Their Beedding is all my endue . My Husband must not Blow or Cart , Or work like other Men : My Children must not learn the art To either Carded or Spin ? My Tapster must live fine and brave For he of one make two And many a Groat for me he save 'Tis nothing etc But I must have another way Our livings for get , And when you hear I'm sur you'l say 'Tis nothing but what is fi If Tap should fail toot go the Tail The Proverb old is true , If half a piece come to my Fleece ? This nothing etc Perhaps our Husbands would repine , If they of this should know And think our little Babes divine Were god in Cuckolds Row You know their gains come by the pains Of only me and you , They must not scorn to wear the horn 'Tis nothing etc Come Neighbours drink with one consent A lusty Bowl of Wine 'Twill break our Hearrs of discontent And make our Noses shine : Each took the Cup and drank it up And swore shee'd spoken true And vow'd to have the 'tother Sup Before they bid her adieu . Then I that herd the Verdict passed How this base cheating Crew , Consented all both first and last To make make poor Drunkards Rue ; I took my Pen and writ this Song And to the Drunkards send it That they with me may strive to see ; Their wicked Life and mend it . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner All is ours and our HUSBANDS , Or the Country Hostesses VINDICATION . She durst not Scold 'tis counted for and Evil. Sheel cheat and whore , and yet be counted civil ; Sheel fill her Pockets by poor Drunkards Losses , And send them all to Jail by weeping Crosses . To the Tune , of the Carmans Whistle , Or High Boys up go we . COme all you Tribes of Hostises , That Women against doe rail , Come lend me some of your advice Their glamorous Tongues to quail ; And I will make it plain appear By nothing but what is true , That all that we get in the Year Is nothing but what's our Endue . For if and honest Compay Of boon good fellows come : And call for Liquour merrily In any private Room : Then if I fill the Jugs with Froth Or cheat them of one or two If I can swear them out of both The Reckoning is my endue . Or if a shurking Fellow come That have no money at all And take up any of my Room And for my Liquour call : Then if I take away their Coat Let it be old or new : Or worth a Crown more than thee shot , 'Tis nothing but what's my Endue . And some their are that are so bold , To swear that I must trust , When once my drink they have they think That then be sure we mus From such the Court or common Law , What ? ere their Wives ensue Shall make their Arse to lie in Straw Their Beedding is all my endue . My Husband must not Blow or Cart , Or work like other Men : My Children must not learn the art To either Carded or Spin ? My Tapster must live fine and brave For he of one make two And many a Groat for me he save 'Tis nothing etc But I must have another way Our livings for get , And when you hear I'm sur you'l say 'Tis nothing but what is fi If Tap should fail toot go the Tail The Proverb old is true , If half a piece come to my Fleece ? This nothing etc Perhaps our Husbands would repine , If they of this should know And think our little Babes divine Were god in Cuckolds Row You know their gains come by the pains Of only me and you , They must not scorn to wear the horn 'Tis nothing etc Come Neighbours drink with one consent A lusty Bowl of Wine 'Twill break our Hearrs of discontent And make our Noses shine : Each took the Cup and drank it up And swore shee'd spoken true And vow'd to have the 'tother Sup Before they bid her adieu . Then I that herd the Verdict passed How this base cheating Crew , Consented all both first and last To make make poor Drunkards Rue ; I took my Pen and writ this Song And to the Drunkards send it That they with me may strive to see ; Their wicked Life and mend it . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner 