The Lamentation of Master Pages wife of Plimmouth , who being inforced by her Parents to wed him against her will , did most wickedly consent to his murder , for the love of George Strangwidge ; for which fact she suffered death at Barstable in Devonshire . Written with her own hand a little before her death . To the tune of Fortune my Foe . UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace , that proffered grace did scorn : My lawless love that luckless wrought my woe , My discontent content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My hateful deed with heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find : Great wealth there was , yea gold and money store , But yet my heart had chosen long before . My eye mislik't my Father's liking quite : My heart did loath my Parents found deligh My grieved mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I crav'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cried their purpose to restrain : With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Father's will my wishes did preven Though wealthy Page possessed my outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was , but wrapped in all woe . Great discontents within my heart did grow , I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Pages wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did scorn his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none I should despise him so , That such disdain within my mind did grow Save only this that fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my love . But here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mus'd to make him straight away , I that became his discontented wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Me thinks that heaven cries vengeance for my fact , Me thinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Me thinks within , my conscience tells me true , That for that deed Hellfier is my endue . My pensive life does sorrow for my sin , For this offence my soul does bleed within , Yet mercy Lord for mercy do I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife , But never would I wish of low or high , A longer life , and see sweet Strangwidge die . Ah woe is me that had no better grace , To stay till he had run out Nature's raze : My deed I rue , but more I do lament , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy-minded be , And seek to grafted upon a golden tree : Consider well , and rightful Judges be , And give your doom betwixt Parents love and me . I was their child and bound for to obey , Yet not to wed where I no love could lay : I married was to muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge wife . Ah wretched world which [ c ] anchored rust does blind , And cursed men that bear a greedy mind : And hapless I whom Parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire Dams , and courteous Cornwall Knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights : Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , And to your children be a better friend . And thou my deer which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the before of death to try , Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adue . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thine in heaven shall ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now , whose mournful minds do show Your hearts disease and inward heavy woe : Mourn you no more , for hope my heart does tell , Ere day be done , that I shall be full well . And Plimmouth proud , I bid thee eke farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel : And farewell life wherein such sorrow shows , And welcome grave which must my corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds : My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeem'd it free . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true love betwixt each Man and Wife : And give all Parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marr'd where minds do not agree . The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for consenting to the death of Master Page of Plim - mouth , suffered death at Barstable . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his sin , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records his Swanlike Song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glandfield , cause of my committed crime , Snared in wealth , as Birds in bush of lime : What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite Against my good , and eke my Loves delight ? I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door : Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been , Unto thy Child , whose years are yet but green : The match unmeet which thou for muck didst make , When aged Page thy Daughter home did take : Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which was the cause that foure of us must die . Ulalia fair , more bright than Summer's Sun , Whose beauty had my heart for ever wone , My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Than to behold mine own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do lament , But that I lov'd , I cannot yet repen Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death would thy excuser be . It was for me ( alas ) thou didst the same , On me of right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my love , whose loyal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so conitant been : Farewell my Love the pride of Plimmouth Town , Farewell the Flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow : Yet afterwards so soar did fortune lower , He lost his joy and Child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , His was the fault , by matching them unfi And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , I gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am that I consent did give , Had I denied , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , her suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In Justice Lord do thou no vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his sake . FINIS . The Sorrowful complaint of Mistress Page , for causing her husband to be murdered , for the love of George Strangwidge , who were executed together . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for sin the inward par My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well my sorrow for my sin . When years were young my Father forc't me wed , Against my will , where fancy was not led , I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered to my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to deligh But gold nor gift my heart could not remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Me thought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly : This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth I liv'd a loathsome life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to them that did our welfare le His love to me so deep a root did take , I could have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was even through my Parents plain , Wronged he was through found desire of gain , If faith and troth a perfect Judge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my faithless deed , And grant all Maidens to take better heed , If I had constant been unto my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace , I sought my own decay , And was the cause to cast my friend away : And he in The Lamentation of Master Pages wife of Plimmouth , who being inforced by her Parents to wed him against her will , did most wickedly consent to his murder , for the love of George Strangwidge ; for which fact she suffered death at Barstable in Devonshire . Written with her own hand a little before her death . To the tune of Fortune my Foe . UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace , that proffered grace did scorn : My lawless love that luckless wrought my woe , My discontent content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My hateful deed with heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find : Great wealth there was , yea gold and money store , But yet my heart had chosen long before . My eye mislik't my Father's liking quite : My heart did loath my Parents found deligh My grieved mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I crav'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cried their purpose to restrain : With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Father's will my wishes did preven Though wealthy Page possessed my outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was , but wrapped in all woe . Great discontents within my heart did grow , I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Pages wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did scorn his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none I should despise him so , That such disdain within my mind did grow Save only this that fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my love . But here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mus'd to make him straight away , I that became his discontented wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Me thinks that heaven cries vengeance for my fact , Me thinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Me thinks within , my conscience tells me true , That for that deed Hellfier is my endue . My pensive life does sorrow for my sin , For this offence my soul does bleed within , Yet mercy Lord for mercy do I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife , But never would I wish of low or high , A longer life , and see sweet Strangwidge die . Ah woe is me that had no better grace , To stay till he had run out Nature's raze : My deed I rue , but more I do lament , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy-minded be , And seek to grafted upon a golden tree : Consider well , and rightful Judges be , And give your doom betwixt Parents love and me . I was their child and bound for to obey , Yet not to wed where I no love could lay : I married was to muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge wife . Ah wretched world which [ c ] anchored rust does blind , And cursed men that bear a greedy mind : And hapless I whom Parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire Dams , and courteous Cornwall Knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights : Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , And to your children be a better friend . And thou my deer which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the before of death to try , Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adue . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thine in heaven shall ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now , whose mournful minds do show Your hearts disease and inward heavy woe : Mourn you no more , for hope my heart does tell , Ere day be done , that I shall be full well . And Plimmouth proud , I bid thee eke farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel : And farewell life wherein such sorrow shows , And welcome grave which must my corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds : My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeem'd it free . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true love betwixt each Man and Wife : And give all Parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marr'd where minds do not agree . The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for consenting to the death of Master Page of Plim - mouth , suffered death at Barstable . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his sin , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records his Swanlike Song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glandfield , cause of my committed crime , Snared in wealth , as Birds in bush of lime : What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite Against my good , and eke my Loves delight ? I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door : Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been , Unto thy Child , whose years are yet but green : The match unmeet which thou for muck didst make , When aged Page thy Daughter home did take : Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which was the cause that foure of us must die . Ulalia fair , more bright than Summer's Sun , Whose beauty had my heart for ever wone , My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Than to behold mine own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do lament , But that I lov'd , I cannot yet repen Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death would thy excuser be . It was for me ( alas ) thou didst the same , On me of right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my love , whose loyal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so conitant been : Farewell my Love the pride of Plimmouth Town , Farewell the Flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow : Yet afterwards so soar did fortune lower , He lost his joy and Child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , His was the fault , by matching them unfi And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , I gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am that I consent did give , Had I denied , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , her suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In Justice Lord do thou no vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his sake . FINIS . The Sorrowful complaint of Mistress Page , for causing her husband to be murdered , for the love of George Strangwidge , who were executed together . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for sin the inward par My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well my sorrow for my sin . When years were young my Father forc't me wed , Against my will , where fancy was not led , I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered to my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to deligh But gold nor gift my heart could not remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Me thought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly : This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth I liv'd a loathsome life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to them that did our welfare le His love to me so deep a root did take , I could have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was even through my Parents plain , Wronged he was through found desire of gain , If faith and troth a perfect Judge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my faithless deed , And grant all Maidens to take better heed , If I had constant been unto my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace , I sought my own decay , And was the cause to cast my friend away : And he in whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss , a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George , my loving faithful friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end , And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my Husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend : My bloody deed , Oh Lord , do me forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false World , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , example take by me : Let not the Devil to murder you entice : Seek to escape each foul and filthy vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death . Forgive my faults and follies I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away , FINIS . whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss , a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George , my loving faithful friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end , And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my Husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend : My bloody deed , Oh Lord , do me forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false World , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , example take by me : Let not the Devil to murder you entice : Seek to escape each foul and filthy vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death . Forgive my faults and follies I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away , FINIS . 