And Answer to Nanny O ; Or , The Happy Agreement between the Two Scotch Lovers , WILLY & NANNY . Tune of , Nanny O. This may be printed , R. P. ARt thou so loyal to thy Love , then i'le the like of kindness show : There's no one that I prize above my young and lively Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the love I bear to Willy O. If I might have Lord , Duke , or Earl , and in rich Silks and Sattens go , Likewise adorn'd with Orient Pearl , I'd leave it all for Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the love I bear to Willy O. If to my Father you should ride . and he should chance to answer no , Yet I will yield to be the Bride of thee my Loyal Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the love I bear to Willy O. My Dearest , I have House and Land , a curious Lamb and breeding You ; With these i'le give both heart and hand to thee my loving Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the love I bear to Willy O. To thee I never will be coy , behold , mine Eyes like Fountains flow ; 'Tis with the ecstasy of Joy , in meeting with my Willy O. 'Tis Willy , etc In Cards and Dice some takes delight until it proves their overthrow ; Put thou in Nannys beauty bright who is in love with Willy O. This Willy , etc If thou comest to me soon or late , my love and loyalty i'le show ; A boy or man shall always wait on thee my true-Love Willy O. 'Tis Willy , etc My dear , that day that we are wed we will invite all , high and low , Then i'le afford my Maidenhead to thee my True-Love Willy O. 'Tis Willy , etc . Against that day a fine Lac'd Band upon my Love I will bestow ; There's no young man in Cumberland that can compare with Willy O. 'Tis Willy , etc My Love , we'l make no long delay , but to the Kirk with speed we'l go ; Upon the next high Holiday , where we'l be married , Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the Love I bear to Willy O. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Gold Ball in Py-corner . And Answer to Nanny O ; Or , The Happy Agreement between the Two Scotch Lovers , WILLY & NANNY . Tune of , Nanny O. This may be printed , R. P. ARt thou so loyal to thy Love , then i'le the like of kindness show : There's no one that I prize above my young and lively Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the love I bear to Willy O. If I might have Lord , Duke , or Earl , and in rich Silks and Sattens go , Likewise adorn'd with Orient Pearl , I'd leave it all for Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the love I bear to Willy O. If to my Father you should ride . and he should chance to answer no , Yet I will yield to be the Bride of thee my Loyal Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the love I bear to Willy O. My Dearest , I have House and Land , a curious Lamb and breeding You ; With these i'le give both heart and hand to thee my loving Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the love I bear to Willy O. To thee I never will be coy , behold , mine Eyes like Fountains flow ; 'Tis with the ecstasy of Joy , in meeting with my Willy O. 'Tis Willy , etc In Cards and Dice some takes delight until it proves their overthrow ; Put thou in Nannys beauty bright who is in love with Willy O. This Willy , etc If thou comest to me soon or late , my love and loyalty i'le show ; A boy or man shall always wait on thee my true-Love Willy O. 'Tis Willy , etc My dear , that day that we are wed we will invite all , high and low , Then i'le afford my Maidenhead to thee my True-Love Willy O. 'Tis Willy , etc . Against that day a fine Lac'd Band upon my Love I will bestow ; There's no young man in Cumberland that can compare with Willy O. 'Tis Willy , etc My Love , we'l make no long delay , but to the Kirk with speed we'l go ; Upon the next high Holiday , where we'l be married , Willy O. 'Tis Willy , Willy , Willy Oh , the love I bear to Willy Oh , All the world shall never know the Love I bear to Willy O. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Gold Ball in Py-corner . 