The Lovers deligh OR , A pleasant Pastoral Sonnet To a new Court Tune . COme love , lets walk into the spring , where we will hear the blackbird sing ; The Robin Redbrest , and the Thrush , the nightingale on thorny bush , Their music sweetly Carrowling , that to my love Content may bring . In yonder dale there are sweet flowers , with many pleasant shady bowers ; A pearling brook with silver streams , all beautified with Phebus beams : I stood behind a tree for fear , to see Dyana bathe her there . See where the nymph , with all her train comes tripping over the Park a main : In yonder grove there will they stay at barleibreak to sport and play : Where we will sit us down and see fair beauty mixed with Chastity . The youthful shepherd with delight will tune a pleasant oaten pipe : Each neatress fine with heavenly note will stretch and strain her vary throat ; So loud and clear their nymph's will sing that hills and valleys all will ring . The shepherd Srephan with his friend the faithful Clayes will attend By play before the Queen , to prove who best deserves Uranias love : A most strange sighed there shall you see rivals of love and amity . Menalcas and Amintas young , brave Coridon , and Thersis strong Your minds would unto pleasure move to have them plead for Phillis love : Judge of these triumphs who shall be but the fair Queen of chastity ? Under the shade of yonder pine you see a Royal throne divine Prepared for the Judge to fit , the Queen of beauty and of wit , Wise Pallas in her Majesty the pavid Judge is chosen to be . The Queen of love is banished there For fear that Phaebe take offence ; Her wanton son must not come there , nor Cylharea once appear : It grieves my heart to think that she from this aspect exempt must be . For if the Queen of love should spy the splendour of thy heavenly eye , She should persuade her winged Son to wound thy heart as he hath done . My silly breast with dread and fear , but Oh the chaince , she is not here . See where the wood-Nimphs ranked do stand with each a garland in her hand , Compact of mir and sweet bays ; for who deserved the chiefest praise In pleading of their passion here , the Laurel Crown away must bear . Upon this bed of vyolets blew a seat most fit for lovers true : Here may we fit us down and see love triumph in his Majesty : By the sweet eclogues that are sung , we shall perceive , who suffered wrong . But stay , the Judges comes to fit , the Queen of chastity and wi The Shepherds all are ready here in comely habits to appear . All wrongs here righted we shall see by the fair Queen of chastity . The second part , To the same tune . SWeet heart come tell me whose soft lays in your conceit deserves most praise ? Or who did set forth passion best ? how Cupid wounded his breast ? I know you have noted all that's past , from the first man unto the last . Me thought it great content did bring , to hear the Shepherds carrowling , To Crown Cilrana , made her choice , Menalcas for his heavenly voice ; Which glory did small pleasure move , since Coridon had Phillis love . To wrestle and throw bars of length ; all men gave place to Thersis strength : His steadfast footing none could move , yet for all this he lost his love No strength or harmony of voice could Phillis move to make her choice . If it had rested in my power , there to have chosen a paramour : He whom I thought deserv'd most grace , was young Amintas ; whose sweet face , And nimble feet could not be matched . the Deities I fear were catched . Did you not note how Pallas swore the like she never saw before ? Had Meliager made such haste , Athlanta had the wager los In token of deserved praise , she crowned him with lasting bays . Then Phaebe unto Phillis said , to make thy choice be not afraid , For if I were the Nymph to choose , Amintas I would not refuse : But all in vain they did exhort , for Corridon had Phillis heart . Both Pallas and Diana chaste , did almost strain with breathless has Who could their praises farther heap , on young Amintas and his sheep , His person , gesture , and his grace they did applaud , and his sweet face . But tell me love the reason , why fair Phillis with the Crystal eye , Did all the youthful swains refuse , and Corridon a love did choose ? Since they in beauty did excel , and for each praise did bear the bell . It seems the beauty of the mind , did in this case strike Phillis blind : His eloquence of tongue and wit , in place whereas the Judge did fit Was his chief gain , and their soul loss , Ulisses so had Ajax cross . But one thing much does make me muse , why sweet Urania did refuse , Her two beloved Ryvalls there ? in whom such friendship did appear , That still they wil'd her with one voice , in friendly wise to make her choice . How prettily they laid the ground , how she at first their heart did wound , When she by them her Neat did keep , and leaving the men half a sleep , Her bird out of her pocket ran , and unto Strephans hand did come . The pretty neatress did awake , hearing her fluttering bird escape , And unto Strephans hand did high . he did restore immediately Her bird , and eke his heart she god , and in her snow white bosom put . The silly bird but for his love his passion could in no ways move , Neither for himself nor his true friend , as it appeared in the end , That neither party should grow wroth , she most unkind refused them both . And now me thinks the sun grows low . If you be missed , your friends will know That you and I have been alone , which to prevent I'll bring you home , To part it is a second hell , loath to depart bids oft farewell . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . The Lovers deligh OR , A pleasant Pastoral Sonnet To a new Court Tune . COme love , lets walk into the spring , where we will hear the blackbird sing ; The Robin Redbrest , and the Thrush , the nightingale on thorny bush , Their music sweetly Carrowling , that to my love Content may bring . In yonder dale there are sweet flowers , with many pleasant shady bowers ; A pearling brook with silver streams , all beautified with Phebus beams : I stood behind a tree for fear , to see Dyana bathe her there . See where the nymph , with all her train comes tripping over the Park a main : In yonder grove there will they stay at barleibreak to sport and play : Where we will sit us down and see fair beauty mixed with Chastity . The youthful shepherd with delight will tune a pleasant oaten pipe : Each neatress fine with heavenly note will stretch and strain her vary throat ; So loud and clear their nymph's will sing that hills and valleys all will ring . The shepherd Srephan with his friend the faithful Clayes will attend By play before the Queen , to prove who best deserves Uranias love : A most strange sighed there shall you see rivals of love and amity . Menalcas and Amintas young , brave Coridon , and Thersis strong Your minds would unto pleasure move to have them plead for Phillis love : Judge of these triumphs who shall be but the fair Queen of chastity ? Under the shade of yonder pine you see a Royal throne divine Prepared for the Judge to fit , the Queen of beauty and of wit , Wise Pallas in her Majesty the pavid Judge is chosen to be . The Queen of love is banished there For fear that Phaebe take offence ; Her wanton son must not come there , nor Cylharea once appear : It grieves my heart to think that she from this aspect exempt must be . For if the Queen of love should spy the splendour of thy heavenly eye , She should persuade her winged Son to wound thy heart as he hath done . My silly breast with dread and fear , but Oh the chaince , she is not here . See where the wood-Nimphs ranked do stand with each a garland in her hand , Compact of mir and sweet bays ; for who deserved the chiefest praise In pleading of their passion here , the Laurel Crown away must bear . Upon this bed of vyolets blew a seat most fit for lovers true : Here may we fit us down and see love triumph in his Majesty : By the sweet eclogues that are sung , we shall perceive , who suffered wrong . But stay , the Judges comes to fit , the Queen of chastity and wi The Shepherds all are ready here in comely habits to appear . All wrongs here righted we shall see by the fair Queen of chastity . The second part , To the same tune . SWeet heart come tell me whose soft lays in your conceit deserves most praise ? Or who did set forth passion best ? how Cupid wounded his breast ? I know you have noted all that's past , from the first man unto the last . Me thought it great content did bring , to hear the Shepherds carrowling , To Crown Cilrana , made her choice , Menalcas for his heavenly voice ; Which glory did small pleasure move , since Coridon had Phillis love . To wrestle and throw bars of length ; all men gave place to Thersis strength : His steadfast footing none could move , yet for all this he lost his love No strength or harmony of voice could Phillis move to make her choice . If it had rested in my power , there to have chosen a paramour : He whom I thought deserv'd most grace , was young Amintas ; whose sweet face , And nimble feet could not be matched . the Deities I fear were catched . Did you not note how Pallas swore the like she never saw before ? Had Meliager made such haste , Athlanta had the wager los In token of deserved praise , she crowned him with lasting bays . Then Phaebe unto Phillis said , to make thy choice be not afraid , For if I were the Nymph to choose , Amintas I would not refuse : But all in vain they did exhort , for Corridon had Phillis heart . Both Pallas and Diana chaste , did almost strain with breathless has Who could their praises farther heap , on young Amintas and his sheep , His person , gesture , and his grace they did applaud , and his sweet face . But tell me love the reason , why fair Phillis with the Crystal eye , Did all the youthful swains refuse , and Corridon a love did choose ? Since they in beauty did excel , and for each praise did bear the bell . It seems the beauty of the mind , did in this case strike Phillis blind : His eloquence of tongue and wit , in place whereas the Judge did fit Was his chief gain , and their soul loss , Ulisses so had Ajax cross . But one thing much does make me muse , why sweet Urania did refuse , Her two beloved Ryvalls there ? in whom such friendship did appear , That still they wil'd her with one voice , in friendly wise to make her choice . How prettily they laid the ground , how she at first their heart did wound , When she by them her Neat did keep , and leaving the men half a sleep , Her bird out of her pocket ran , and unto Strephans hand did come . The pretty neatress did awake , hearing her fluttering bird escape , And unto Strephans hand did high . he did restore immediately Her bird , and eke his heart she god , and in her snow white bosom put . The silly bird but for his love his passion could in no ways move , Neither for himself nor his true friend , as it appeared in the end , That neither party should grow wroth , she most unkind refused them both . And now me thinks the sun grows low . If you be missed , your friends will know That you and I have been alone , which to prevent I'll bring you home , To part it is a second hell , loath to depart bids oft farewell . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . The Lovers deligh OR , A pleasant Pastoral Sonnet To a new Court Tune . COme love , lets walk into the spring , where we will hear the blackbird sing ; The Robin Redbrest , and the Thrush , the nightingale on thorny bush , Their music sweetly Carrowling , that to my love Content may bring . In yonder dale there are sweet flowers , with many pleasant shady bowers ; A pearling brook with silver streams , all beautified with Phebus beams : I stood behind a tree for fear , to see Dyana bathe her there . See where the nymph , with all her train comes tripping over the Park a main : In yonder grove there will they stay at barleibreak to sport and play : Where we will sit us down and see fair beauty mixed with Chastity . The youthful shepherd with delight will tune a pleasant oaten pipe : Each neatress fine with heavenly note will stretch and strain her vary throat ; So loud and clear their nymph's will sing that hills and valleys all will ring . The shepherd Srephan with his friend the faithful Clayes will attend By play before the Queen , to prove who best deserves Uranias love : A most strange sighed there shall you see rivals of love and amity . Menalcas and Amintas young , brave Coridon , and Thersis strong Your minds would unto pleasure move to have them plead for Phillis love : Judge of these triumphs who shall be but the fair Queen of chastity ? Under the shade of yonder pine you see a Royal throne divine Prepared for the Judge to fit , the Queen of beauty and of wit , Wise Pallas in her Majesty the pavid Judge is chosen to be . The Queen of love is banished there For fear that Phaebe take offence ; Her wanton son must not come there , nor Cylharea once appear : It grieves my heart to think that she from this aspect exempt must be . For if the Queen of love should spy the splendour of thy heavenly eye , She should persuade her winged Son to wound thy heart as he hath done . My silly breast with dread and fear , but Oh the chaince , she is not here . See where the wood-Nimphs ranked do stand with each a garland in her hand , Compact of mir and sweet bays ; for who deserved the chiefest praise In pleading of their passion here , the Laurel Crown away must bear . Upon this bed of vyolets blew a seat most fit for lovers true : Here may we fit us down and see love triumph in his Majesty : By the sweet eclogues that are sung , we shall perceive , who suffered wrong . But stay , the Judges comes to fit , the Queen of chastity and wi The Shepherds all are ready here in comely habits to appear . All wrongs here righted we shall see by the fair Queen of chastity . The second part , To the same tune . SWeet heart come tell me whose soft lays in your conceit deserves most praise ? Or who did set forth passion best ? how Cupid wounded his breast ? I know you have noted all that's past , from the first man unto the last . Me thought it great content did bring , to hear the Shepherds carrowling , To Crown Cilrana , made her choice , Menalcas for his heavenly voice ; Which glory did small pleasure move , since Coridon had Phillis love . To wrestle and throw bars of length ; all men gave place to Thersis strength : His steadfast footing none could move , yet for all this he lost his love No strength or harmony of voice could Phillis move to make her choice . If it had rested in my power , there to have chosen a paramour : He whom I thought deserv'd most grace , was young Amintas ; whose sweet face , And nimble feet could not be matched . the Deities I fear were catched . Did you not note how Pallas swore the like she never saw before ? Had Meliager made such haste , Athlanta had the wager los In token of deserved praise , she crowned him with lasting bays . Then Phaebe unto Phillis said , to make thy choice be not afraid , For if I were the Nymph to choose , Amintas I would not refuse : But all in vain they did exhort , for Corridon had Phillis heart . Both Pallas and Diana chaste , did almost strain with breathless has Who could their praises farther heap , on young Amintas and his sheep , His person , gesture , and his grace they did applaud , and his sweet face . But tell me love the reason , why fair Phillis with the Crystal eye , Did all the youthful swains refuse , and Corridon a love did choose ? Since they in beauty did excel , and for each praise did bear the bell . It seems the beauty of the mind , did in this case strike Phillis blind : His eloquence of tongue and wit , in place whereas the Judge did fit Was his chief gain , and their soul loss , Ulisses so had Ajax cross . But one thing much does make me muse , why sweet Urania did refuse , Her two beloved Ryvalls there ? in whom such friendship did appear , That still they wil'd her with one voice , in friendly wise to make her choice . How prettily they laid the ground , how she at first their heart did wound , When she by them her Neat did keep , and leaving the men half a sleep , Her bird out of her pocket ran , and unto Strephans hand did come . The pretty neatress did awake , hearing her fluttering bird escape , And unto Strephans hand did high . he did restore immediately Her bird , and eke his heart she god , and in her snow white bosom put . The silly bird but for his love his passion could in no ways move , Neither for himself nor his true friend , as it appeared in the end , That neither party should grow wroth , she most unkind refused them both . And now me thinks the sun grows low . If you be missed , your friends will know That you and I have been alone , which to prevent I'll bring you home , To part it is a second hell , loath to depart bids oft farewell . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . The Lovers deligh OR , A pleasant Pastoral Sonnet To a new Court Tune . COme love , lets walk into the spring , where we will hear the blackbird sing ; The Robin Redbrest , and the Thrush , the nightingale on thorny bush , Their music sweetly Carrowling , that to my love Content may bring . In yonder dale there are sweet flowers , with many pleasant shady bowers ; A pearling brook with silver streams , all beautified with Phebus beams : I stood behind a tree for fear , to see Dyana bathe her there . See where the nymph , with all her train comes tripping over the Park a main : In yonder grove there will they stay at barleibreak to sport and play : Where we will sit us down and see fair beauty mixed with Chastity . The youthful shepherd with delight will tune a pleasant oaten pipe : Each neatress fine with heavenly note will stretch and strain her vary throat ; So loud and clear their nymph's will sing that hills and valleys all will ring . The shepherd Srephan with his friend the faithful Clayes will attend By play before the Queen , to prove who best deserves Uranias love : A most strange sighed there shall you see rivals of love and amity . Menalcas and Amintas young , brave Coridon , and Thersis strong Your minds would unto pleasure move to have them plead for Phillis love : Judge of these triumphs who shall be but the fair Queen of chastity ? Under the shade of yonder pine you see a Royal throne divine Prepared for the Judge to fit , the Queen of beauty and of wit , Wise Pallas in her Majesty the pavid Judge is chosen to be . The Queen of love is banished there For fear that Phaebe take offence ; Her wanton son must not come there , nor Cylharea once appear : It grieves my heart to think that she from this aspect exempt must be . For if the Queen of love should spy the splendour of thy heavenly eye , She should persuade her winged Son to wound thy heart as he hath done . My silly breast with dread and fear , but Oh the chaince , she is not here . See where the wood-Nimphs ranked do stand with each a garland in her hand , Compact of mir and sweet bays ; for who deserved the chiefest praise In pleading of their passion here , the Laurel Crown away must bear . Upon this bed of vyolets blew a seat most fit for lovers true : Here may we fit us down and see love triumph in his Majesty : By the sweet eclogues that are sung , we shall perceive , who suffered wrong . But stay , the Judges comes to fit , the Queen of chastity and wi The Shepherds all are ready here in comely habits to appear . All wrongs here righted we shall see by the fair Queen of chastity . The second part , To the same tune . SWeet heart come tell me whose soft lays in your conceit deserves most praise ? Or who did set forth passion best ? how Cupid wounded his breast ? I know you have noted all that's past , from the first man unto the last . Me thought it great content did bring , to hear the Shepherds carrowling , To Crown Cilrana , made her choice , Menalcas for his heavenly voice ; Which glory did small pleasure move , since Coridon had Phillis love . To wrestle and throw bars of length ; all men gave place to Thersis strength : His steadfast footing none could move , yet for all this he lost his love No strength or harmony of voice could Phillis move to make her choice . If it had rested in my power , there to have chosen a paramour : He whom I thought deserv'd most grace , was young Amintas ; whose sweet face , And nimble feet could not be matched . the Deities I fear were catched . Did you not note how Pallas swore the like she never saw before ? Had Meliager made such haste , Athlanta had the wager los In token of deserved praise , she crowned him with lasting bays . Then Phaebe unto Phillis said , to make thy choice be not afraid , For if I were the Nymph to choose , Amintas I would not refuse : But all in vain they did exhort , for Corridon had Phillis heart . Both Pallas and Diana chaste , did almost strain with breathless has Who could their praises farther heap , on young Amintas and his sheep , His person , gesture , and his grace they did applaud , and his sweet face . But tell me love the reason , why fair Phillis with the Crystal eye , Did all the youthful swains refuse , and Corridon a love did choose ? Since they in beauty did excel , and for each praise did bear the bell . It seems the beauty of the mind , did in this case strike Phillis blind : His eloquence of tongue and wit , in place whereas the Judge did fit Was his chief gain , and their soul loss , Ulisses so had Ajax cross . But one thing much does make me muse , why sweet Urania did refuse , Her two beloved Ryvalls there ? in whom such friendship did appear , That still they wil'd her with one voice , in friendly wise to make her choice . How prettily they laid the ground , how she at first their heart did wound , When she by them her Neat did keep , and leaving the men half a sleep , Her bird out of her pocket ran , and unto Strephans hand did come . The pretty neatress did awake , hearing her fluttering bird escape , And unto Strephans hand did high . he did restore immediately Her bird , and eke his heart she god , and in her snow white bosom put . The silly bird but for his love his passion could in no ways move , Neither for himself nor his true friend , as it appeared in the end , That neither party should grow wroth , she most unkind refused them both . And now me thinks the sun grows low . If you be missed , your friends will know That you and I have been alone , which to prevent I'll bring you home , To part it is a second hell , loath to depart bids oft farewell . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . 