The lovely Northern Lass Who in this ditty here complaining , shows What harm she god milking her dadyes Ewes . To a pleasant Scotch tune , called , The broom of Cowdon knows . THrough Liddersdale as lately I went I musing on did pass , I herd a Maid was disconten she sigh'd and said alas , All maids that ever deceived was , bear a part of these my woes , For once I was a bonny Lass , when I milked my dadyes Ewes . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knows , Fain would I be in the North Country to milk my dadyes Ewes . My love into the fields did come , when my dady was at home , Sugared words he gave me there , prais'd me for such a one , His honey breath and lips so soft , and his alluring eye , And tempting tonge hath wood me oft , now forces me to cry , All Maids etc He joyed me with his pretty chat . so well discourse could he , Talking of this thing and of that , which greatly liked me . I was so greatly taken with his speech , and with his comely making , He used all the means could be , to inchant me with his speaking , All Maids etc In Danby Forest I was born , my beauty did excel , My parents dearly loved me , till my belly began to swell , I might have been a princes peer , when I came over the knoes , Till the shepherd's boy beguiled me , milking my dadyes Ewes . All maids etc When once I felt my belly swell , no longer might I abide , My mother put me out of doors , and bang'd me back and side Then did I range the world so wide , wandering about the knoes , Cursing the Boy that helped me , to fold my dadyes Ewes . All Maids etc Who would a thought a boy so young , would have us'd a Maiden so , As to allu [ r ] e her with his tongue , and then from her to go ? Which hath alas procured my woe , to credit his fair she [ oh ] es , Which now too late repent I do , the milking of the Ewes . All Maids etc I often since have wished that I , had never seen his face , I needed not thus mournfully , have sighd and said alas , I might have matched with the best , as all the Country knows . Had I escap'd the Shepherd's boy helped me to fold my Ewes . All Maids etc The second part To the same tune ALL Maidens fair then have a care , when you a milking go : Trust not to young men's tempting tongues , that will deceive you so , Them you shall find to be unkind , and glory in your woes , For the shepherds boy beguiled me , folding my dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc If you your virgin honours keep , esteeming of them deer , You need not then to wail and weep or your parents anger fear : As I have said , of them beware , would glory in your woes , You then may sing with merry cheer , milking your Dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc A young man hearing her complaint , did pity this her case , Saying to her , sweet beauteous saint , I grieve so fair a face Should sorrow so , then sweating know , to ease thee of thy woes , I'll go with thee to the North country , to milk thy dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc Leander like I will remain , still constant to thee ever : As Piramus , or Troyalus , till death our lives shall sever , Let me be hated evermore , of all men that me knows , If false to thee , sweetheart I be , milking thy dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc Then modestly she did reply , might I so happy be , Of you to find a husband kind , and for to marry me , Then to you I would during life continue constant still , And be a true obedient wife , observing of your will . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowden knoes , Fain would I be in the North country , milking my dadyes Ewes . Thus with a gentle soft embrace , he took her in his arms , And with a kiss he smiling said , I'll shield thee from all harms , And instantly will marry thee , to ease thee of thy woes , And go with thee to the North Country , to milk thy dadyes Ewes . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knoes , Fain would I be in the North Country , to milk my dadyes Ewes . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Coules . The lovely Northern Lass Who in this ditty here complaining , shows What harm she god milking her dadyes Ewes . To a pleasant Scotch tune , called , The broom of Cowdon knows . THrough Liddersdale as lately I went I musing on did pass , I herd a Maid was disconten she sigh'd and said alas , All maids that ever deceived was , bear a part of these my woes , For once I was a bonny Lass , when I milked my dadyes Ewes . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knows , Fain would I be in the North Country to milk my dadyes Ewes . My love into the fields did come , when my dady was at home , Sugared words he gave me there , prais'd me for such a one , His honey breath and lips so soft , and his alluring eye , And tempting tonge hath wood me oft , now forces me to cry , All Maids etc He joyed me with his pretty chat . so well discourse could he , Talking of this thing and of that , which greatly liked me . I was so greatly taken with his speech , and with his comely making , He used all the means could be , to inchant me with his speaking , All Maids etc In Danby Forest I was born , my beauty did excel , My parents dearly loved me , till my belly began to swell , I might have been a princes peer , when I came over the knoes , Till the shepherd's boy beguiled me , milking my dadyes Ewes . All maids etc When once I felt my belly swell , no longer might I abide , My mother put me out of doors , and bang'd me back and side Then did I range the world so wide , wandering about the knoes , Cursing the Boy that helped me , to fold my dadyes Ewes . All Maids etc Who would a thought a boy so young , would have us'd a Maiden so , As to allu [ r ] e her with his tongue , and then from her to go ? Which hath alas procured my woe , to credit his fair she [ oh ] es , Which now too late repent I do , the milking of the Ewes . All Maids etc I often since have wished that I , had never seen his face , I needed not thus mournfully , have sighd and said alas , I might have matched with the best , as all the Country knows . Had I escap'd the Shepherd's boy helped me to fold my Ewes . All Maids etc The second part To the same tune ALL Maidens fair then have a care , when you a milking go : Trust not to young men's tempting tongues , that will deceive you so , Them you shall find to be unkind , and glory in your woes , For the shepherds boy beguiled me , folding my dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc If you your virgin honours keep , esteeming of them deer , You need not then to wail and weep or your parents anger fear : As I have said , of them beware , would glory in your woes , You then may sing with merry cheer , milking your Dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc A young man hearing her complaint , did pity this her case , Saying to her , sweet beauteous saint , I grieve so fair a face Should sorrow so , then sweating know , to ease thee of thy woes , I'll go with thee to the North country , to milk thy dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc Leander like I will remain , still constant to thee ever : As Piramus , or Troyalus , till death our lives shall sever , Let me be hated evermore , of all men that me knows , If false to thee , sweetheart I be , milking thy dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc Then modestly she did reply , might I so happy be , Of you to find a husband kind , and for to marry me , Then to you I would during life continue constant still , And be a true obedient wife , observing of your will . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowden knoes , Fain would I be in the North country , milking my dadyes Ewes . Thus with a gentle soft embrace , he took her in his arms , And with a kiss he smiling said , I'll shield thee from all harms , And instantly will marry thee , to ease thee of thy woes , And go with thee to the North Country , to milk thy dadyes Ewes . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knoes , Fain would I be in the North Country , to milk my dadyes Ewes . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Coules . The lovely Northern Lass Who in this ditty here complaining , shows What harm she god milking her dadyes Ewes . To a pleasant Scotch tune , called , The broom of Cowdon knows . THrough Liddersdale as lately I went I musing on did pass , I herd a Maid was disconten she sigh'd and said alas , All maids that ever deceived was , bear a part of these my woes , For once I was a bonny Lass , when I milked my dadyes Ewes . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knows , Fain would I be in the North Country to milk my dadyes Ewes . My love into the fields did come , when my dady was at home , Sugared words he gave me there , prais'd me for such a one , His honey breath and lips so soft , and his alluring eye , And tempting tonge hath wood me oft , now forces me to cry , All Maids etc He joyed me with his pretty chat . so well discourse could he , Talking of this thing and of that , which greatly liked me . I was so greatly taken with his speech , and with his comely making , He used all the means could be , to inchant me with his speaking , All Maids etc In Danby Forest I was born , my beauty did excel , My parents dearly loved me , till my belly began to swell , I might have been a princes peer , when I came over the knoes , Till the shepherd's boy beguiled me , milking my dadyes Ewes . All maids etc When once I felt my belly swell , no longer might I abide , My mother put me out of doors , and bang'd me back and side Then did I range the world so wide , wandering about the knoes , Cursing the Boy that helped me , to fold my dadyes Ewes . All Maids etc Who would a thought a boy so young , would have us'd a Maiden so , As to allu [ r ] e her with his tongue , and then from her to go ? Which hath alas procured my woe , to credit his fair she [ oh ] es , Which now too late repent I do , the milking of the Ewes . All Maids etc I often since have wished that I , had never seen his face , I needed not thus mournfully , have sighd and said alas , I might have matched with the best , as all the Country knows . Had I escap'd the Shepherd's boy helped me to fold my Ewes . All Maids etc The second part To the same tune ALL Maidens fair then have a care , when you a milking go : Trust not to young men's tempting tongues , that will deceive you so , Them you shall find to be unkind , and glory in your woes , For the shepherds boy beguiled me , folding my dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc If you your virgin honours keep , esteeming of them deer , You need not then to wail and weep or your parents anger fear : As I have said , of them beware , would glory in your woes , You then may sing with merry cheer , milking your Dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc A young man hearing her complaint , did pity this her case , Saying to her , sweet beauteous saint , I grieve so fair a face Should sorrow so , then sweating know , to ease thee of thy woes , I'll go with thee to the North country , to milk thy dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc Leander like I will remain , still constant to thee ever : As Piramus , or Troyalus , till death our lives shall sever , Let me be hated evermore , of all men that me knows , If false to thee , sweetheart I be , milking thy dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc Then modestly she did reply , might I so happy be , Of you to find a husband kind , and for to marry me , Then to you I would during life continue constant still , And be a true obedient wife , observing of your will . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowden knoes , Fain would I be in the North country , milking my dadyes Ewes . Thus with a gentle soft embrace , he took her in his arms , And with a kiss he smiling said , I'll shield thee from all harms , And instantly will marry thee , to ease thee of thy woes , And go with thee to the North Country , to milk thy dadyes Ewes . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knoes , Fain would I be in the North Country , to milk my dadyes Ewes . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Coules . The lovely Northern Lass Who in this ditty here complaining , shows What harm she god milking her dadyes Ewes . To a pleasant Scotch tune , called , The broom of Cowdon knows . THrough Liddersdale as lately I went I musing on did pass , I herd a Maid was disconten she sigh'd and said alas , All maids that ever deceived was , bear a part of these my woes , For once I was a bonny Lass , when I milked my dadyes Ewes . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knows , Fain would I be in the North Country to milk my dadyes Ewes . My love into the fields did come , when my dady was at home , Sugared words he gave me there , prais'd me for such a one , His honey breath and lips so soft , and his alluring eye , And tempting tonge hath wood me oft , now forces me to cry , All Maids etc He joyed me with his pretty chat . so well discourse could he , Talking of this thing and of that , which greatly liked me . I was so greatly taken with his speech , and with his comely making , He used all the means could be , to inchant me with his speaking , All Maids etc In Danby Forest I was born , my beauty did excel , My parents dearly loved me , till my belly began to swell , I might have been a princes peer , when I came over the knoes , Till the shepherd's boy beguiled me , milking my dadyes Ewes . All maids etc When once I felt my belly swell , no longer might I abide , My mother put me out of doors , and bang'd me back and side Then did I range the world so wide , wandering about the knoes , Cursing the Boy that helped me , to fold my dadyes Ewes . All Maids etc Who would a thought a boy so young , would have us'd a Maiden so , As to allu [ r ] e her with his tongue , and then from her to go ? Which hath alas procured my woe , to credit his fair she [ oh ] es , Which now too late repent I do , the milking of the Ewes . All Maids etc I often since have wished that I , had never seen his face , I needed not thus mournfully , have sighd and said alas , I might have matched with the best , as all the Country knows . Had I escap'd the Shepherd's boy helped me to fold my Ewes . All Maids etc The second part To the same tune ALL Maidens fair then have a care , when you a milking go : Trust not to young men's tempting tongues , that will deceive you so , Them you shall find to be unkind , and glory in your woes , For the shepherds boy beguiled me , folding my dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc If you your virgin honours keep , esteeming of them deer , You need not then to wail and weep or your parents anger fear : As I have said , of them beware , would glory in your woes , You then may sing with merry cheer , milking your Dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc A young man hearing her complaint , did pity this her case , Saying to her , sweet beauteous saint , I grieve so fair a face Should sorrow so , then sweating know , to ease thee of thy woes , I'll go with thee to the North country , to milk thy dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc Leander like I will remain , still constant to thee ever : As Piramus , or Troyalus , till death our lives shall sever , Let me be hated evermore , of all men that me knows , If false to thee , sweetheart I be , milking thy dadyes Ewes . All maids , etc Then modestly she did reply , might I so happy be , Of you to find a husband kind , and for to marry me , Then to you I would during life continue constant still , And be a true obedient wife , observing of your will . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowden knoes , Fain would I be in the North country , milking my dadyes Ewes . Thus with a gentle soft embrace , he took her in his arms , And with a kiss he smiling said , I'll shield thee from all harms , And instantly will marry thee , to ease thee of thy woes , And go with thee to the North Country , to milk thy dadyes Ewes . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knoes , Fain would I be in the North Country , to milk my dadyes Ewes . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Coules . 