A new Northern Jig , called , Dainty come thou to me . WIlt thou forsake me thus , and leave me in misery ? And I gave my hand to thee , only with thee to die : Cast no care to thy heart , from thee I will not flee , Let them all say what they will , Dainty come thou to me . Were my state good or ill , rich , or in misery , Yet would I love thee still , prove me and thou shalt see . Cast no care , etc Were you rich , were you poor , were you in misery , I will beg from door to door , all for to maintain thee : Cast no care , etc Were I Lord , were I Knight , came I of high degree , All my Lands should be thine , try me and thou shalt see . Cast no care , etc If the Indie Gold were mine , and all the wealth of Spaine All that it should be thine , prove me yet once again : Cast no care , etc Thy beauty does excel , above all I love thee , With thee I mean to dwell , try me and thou shalt see : Cast no care , etc I promise for thy sake , all other to forsake , And only thee to take , try me and thou shalt see : Cast no care , etc Let me thy love obtain , or else I am but slain , Revive me once again , sweet I desire thee . Cast no care , etc If Friends do frown and fret , and Parents angry be , And Brother's grief is great , yet I love none but thee . Cast no care , etc Heres my hand and my heart , faith and troth unto thee , From thee I will not start , try me and thou shalt see . Cast no care , etc Thus my Friends I forsake , with thee my life to spend , Refusing no pains to take , until my life does end : Cast no care , etc Farewell my trusty Love , true as the Turtledove . I will as constant prove , till we two meet again . Cast no care , etc Finis . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . A new Northern Jig , called , Dainty come thou to me . WIlt thou forsake me thus , and leave me in misery ? And I gave my hand to thee , only with thee to die : Cast no care to thy heart , from thee I will not flee , Let them all say what they will , Dainty come thou to me . Were my state good or ill , rich , or in misery , Yet would I love thee still , prove me and thou shalt see . Cast no care , etc Were you rich , were you poor , were you in misery , I will beg from door to door , all for to maintain thee : Cast no care , etc Were I Lord , were I Knight , came I of high degree , All my Lands should be thine , try me and thou shalt see . Cast no care , etc If the Indie Gold were mine , and all the wealth of Spaine All that it should be thine , prove me yet once again : Cast no care , etc Thy beauty does excel , above all I love thee , With thee I mean to dwell , try me and thou shalt see : Cast no care , etc I promise for thy sake , all other to forsake , And only thee to take , try me and thou shalt see : Cast no care , etc Let me thy love obtain , or else I am but slain , Revive me once again , sweet I desire thee . Cast no care , etc If Friends do frown and fret , and Parents angry be , And Brother's grief is great , yet I love none but thee . Cast no care , etc Heres my hand and my heart , faith and troth unto thee , From thee I will not start , try me and thou shalt see . Cast no care , etc Thus my Friends I forsake , with thee my life to spend , Refusing no pains to take , until my life does end : Cast no care , etc Farewell my trusty Love , true as the Turtledove . I will as constant prove , till we two meet again . Cast no care , etc Finis . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 