Loves Lunacy . Or , Mad Besses Fegary . Declaring her sorrow , care and moan , Which may cause many a sighs and groan : A Youngman did this Maid some wrong , Wherefore she writ this mournful Song . To the Tune of , The mad men Morris . Poor Besse , mad Besse , so they call me , I'm metamorphosed ; Strange sights and visions I do see , by Furies I am led : Tom was the cause of all my woe , to him I loudly cry , My love to him there's none does know , yet here he lets me lie . This Bethlem is a place of torment , heere's fearful notes still sounding ; Here minds are filled with discontent , and terrors still abounding . Some shake their chains in woeful wise , some swear , some curse , some roaring , Some shrieking out with fearful cries , and some their clothes are tearing . O cursed Alecto that fierce fury , Megara , Tysiphon ! Are governors of my late glory ; wise Pallas me does shun : My jems , my jewels and my earings , are turned to iron fetters ; They now do serve for others wearings , such as are now my betters . Orcades Fairies now do led me , Over mountains , hills and valleys , Naiades does through waters drive me , and Brizo with me dallies : Oh sometime I dream of my Tom , then with my folded arms I him embrace , saying welcome , but waking breeds my harms . Adrastea now robbeth me , of all my wit and patience , Angarona will not receive me , to live in peace and silence : My mind runs on my fine apparel , which once did fit my wearing : Then with my self I seem to quarrel , my rags I fallen to tearing . O once I was as fair as Briseis , and chaste as was Cassandra , But living void of joy and blisses , I'm Hero to Leander : For as chaste Hero her self drowned , so I am droun'd in sorrow ; The Fates on me hath sorely frowned , no patience I can borrow . The second part , To the same tune . I'M like to fair Philomela , by Tereus basely ravished ; Yet when his burning lust did thaw , he closely her imprisoned : And even so I'm quite deflowered by Tom of all my senses ; My love and means he hath devoured , making no recompenses . You Gods and all you Goddesses , pray listen to my mourning , And grace me with this happiness , to see my Toms returning . Or if you will not grant me this , to send him hither to me , Send me but word whereas he is , and Tom , I'll come unto thee . If that he be in God Marses train , where armour brightly glisters ; Be sure I'll fetch him home again , in spite of the three Sisters : Or if he be in Venus Court , where Cupid shoots his arrows : I'll fetch him thence from all his sport , only to ease my sorrows . Stay , who comes here ? this the sisters three , which lately I did mention , I doubt they come to chide with me and hinder my intention . Clotho brings wool , Lachesis does spin , Atropos cuts asunder ; Now I'll away and not be seen , each one is my Commander . You Maids and Virgins fair and pure note well my careful calling , You cannot think what I endure , Cupid hath caus'd my falling : When I was as now many be , free from God Cupids arrows , I would have smil'd at any she , that should tell me of sorrows . My lodging once was soft and easy , my garments silk and satin ; Now in a lock of straw I lie , this is a woeful pattin : My diet once was choice and fine , all which did not content me ; Now I drink water , once good wine was nought unless it sent me . Thus pride and love together joined to work my utter ruin ; They wrought my discontent in mind , which causes my undoing . And thus good people all adue , perhaps you never may see me , Farewell I bid once more to you , I'm grieved soar believe me . But if you chance once more to come , bring tidings from my dearest , By all means bring my true love Tom , hee's welcomest when he's neeres The day is past , and night is come , and here comes our commander ; Hee'l lock me into a dark room , 'tis sorrows chiefest Chamber . FINIS . Richard Climsull . AT LONDON . Printed for John Wright the younger , and are to be sold at the upper end of the Old-Bayley . Loves Lunacy . Or , Mad Besses Fegary . Declaring her sorrow , care and moan , Which may cause many a sighs and groan : A Youngman did this Maid some wrong , Wherefore she writ this mournful Song . To the Tune of , The mad men Morris . Poor Besse , mad Besse , so they call me , I'm metamorphosed ; Strange sights and visions I do see , by Furies I am led : Tom was the cause of all my woe , to him I loudly cry , My love to him there's none does know , yet here he lets me lie . This Bethlem is a place of torment , heere's fearful notes still sounding ; Here minds are filled with discontent , and terrors still abounding . Some shake their chains in woeful wise , some swear , some curse , some roaring , Some shrieking out with fearful cries , and some their clothes are tearing . O cursed Alecto that fierce fury , Megara , Tysiphon ! Are governors of my late glory ; wise Pallas me does shun : My jems , my jewels and my earings , are turned to iron fetters ; They now do serve for others wearings , such as are now my betters . Orcades Fairies now do led me , Over mountains , hills and valleys , Naiades does through waters drive me , and Brizo with me dallies : Oh sometime I dream of my Tom , then with my folded arms I him embrace , saying welcome , but waking breeds my harms . Adrastea now robbeth me , of all my wit and patience , Angarona will not receive me , to live in peace and silence : My mind runs on my fine apparel , which once did fit my wearing : Then with my self I seem to quarrel , my rags I fallen to tearing . O once I was as fair as Briseis , and chaste as was Cassandra , But living void of joy and blisses , I'm Hero to Leander : For as chaste Hero her self drowned , so I am droun'd in sorrow ; The Fates on me hath sorely frowned , no patience I can borrow . The second part , To the same tune . I'M like to fair Philomela , by Tereus basely ravished ; Yet when his burning lust did thaw , he closely her imprisoned : And even so I'm quite deflowered by Tom of all my senses ; My love and means he hath devoured , making no recompenses . You Gods and all you Goddesses , pray listen to my mourning , And grace me with this happiness , to see my Toms returning . Or if you will not grant me this , to send him hither to me , Send me but word whereas he is , and Tom , I'll come unto thee . If that he be in God Marses train , where armour brightly glisters ; Be sure I'll fetch him home again , in spite of the three Sisters : Or if he be in Venus Court , where Cupid shoots his arrows : I'll fetch him thence from all his sport , only to ease my sorrows . Stay , who comes here ? this the sisters three , which lately I did mention , I doubt they come to chide with me and hinder my intention . Clotho brings wool , Lachesis does spin , Atropos cuts asunder ; Now I'll away and not be seen , each one is my Commander . You Maids and Virgins fair and pure note well my careful calling , You cannot think what I endure , Cupid hath caus'd my falling : When I was as now many be , free from God Cupids arrows , I would have smil'd at any she , that should tell me of sorrows . My lodging once was soft and easy , my garments silk and satin ; Now in a lock of straw I lie , this is a woeful pattin : My diet once was choice and fine , all which did not content me ; Now I drink water , once good wine was nought unless it sent me . Thus pride and love together joined to work my utter ruin ; They wrought my discontent in mind , which causes my undoing . And thus good people all adue , perhaps you never may see me , Farewell I bid once more to you , I'm grieved soar believe me . But if you chance once more to come , bring tidings from my dearest , By all means bring my true love Tom , hee's welcomest when he's neeres The day is past , and night is come , and here comes our commander ; Hee'l lock me into a dark room , 'tis sorrows chiefest Chamber . FINIS . Richard Climsull . AT LONDON . Printed for John Wright the younger , and are to be sold at the upper end of the Old-Bayley . 