OR , Pretty Comparisons wittily grounded , Which by scornful Maidens may best be expounded . To the tune of , Like to the Damask Rose : The second strain to be sung twice over . LIke to a Dovecote never haunted , Or a Petition never granted ; Or like broadcloth without a Taylor , Or like a Jail without a Jailor ; Or like a Lanthorn without a light , Or Wedding-day without a nigh Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Dovecote haunted , yields much profit ; The Petition granted , good comes of it ; The Taylor puts broadcloth in shape , The Jailor lets no Prisoner 'scape ; The Candle light is the Lanthorns treasure , The Wedding-night crowns all the pleasure : So is that Maiden in mine eyes , Who loves and marries ere she dies . Like to a Ring without a finger , Or like a Bell without a ringer ; Or like a Horse that's never ridden , Or like a Feast , and no Guests bidden ; Or like a Well without a Bucket , Or like a Rose and no one pluck i Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Ring , if worn , the finger decketh , The Bell , if rung , good music makes ; The Horse does ease , if he be ridden , The Feast does please , if Guests be bidden ; The Bucket draws the water for thee , The Rose , when plucked , is then most worthy : So is that Maiden , etc Like to a Stock not grafted on , Or like a Lute ne're play'd upon , Or like a Jack without a weight , Or like a Bark without a fraught , Or like a Lock without a key , Or like a Soldier without pay : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Stock that's grafted , yields best fruit , Best Musick's in the finger'd Lute , The weight does make the Jacke go ready , The fraught does make the Bark go steady , The Key the Lock does open right , The Soldier paid is prove to figh So is that Maiden , etc Like to a Needle without thread , Or like a word without a deed , Or like a warrant never seal'd , Or like a thought that's never reveal'd , Or like a line without a book , Or like good meat without a Cook : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The thread with Needle yields much pleasure , The deed and word make decent measure , The Seal in force the Warrant makes ; The thought reveal'd , all doubt forsakes , The Hook with Line does catch the Fish , The Cook of meat makes wholesome dishes : So is that Maiden in mine eyes , Who loves and marries ere she dies . The second part . To the same Tune . LIke to a Question and no Answer , Or like a call without Anon Sir , Or like a Ship was never rig'd , Or like a Mine was never dig'd , Or like a wound without a plaster , Or like a household and no Master : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Question answered , strife appeaseth . Anon , Anon , the caller pleases , The rigged Ship sails with the Wind , Who digs the Mine shall treasure find ; The wound is by the plaster cured , The house by th' Master is secured : So is that Maiden in mine eyes , That loves and marries ere she dies . Like to a Marrow bone never broken , Or commendations and no token , Or like a Fort and none to win it , Or like the Moon and no man in it , Or like a School without a Teacher , Or like a Pulpit and no Preacher : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Marrow bone that's broke eats pleasant , The Token makes a grateful present , There's triumph in the Fort that's wone , The man rides glorious in the Moon , The School is by the Teacher stil'd , The Pulpit's by the Preacher fill'd . So is that Maiden , etc Like to a Pistol and no shot , Or like a Promise quite forgotten , Or like a Hawk that's never man'd , Or like a Hide before 'tis tan'd , Or like a Coach and never a horse , Or like a Coffin and no Corpse : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Pistol charged , helps in danger ; He that keeps promise , is no ranger ; The Hawk that's man'd , yields Princely sport ; The Hide well tan'd , there's much use for't ; The Horse does cause the Coach to carry , The Coffin's us'd the Corpse to bury : So is that Maiden , etc Like to a house by no one kept , Or like a Corn field never reaped , Or like a Windmill without sails , Or like a Horseshoe without nails , Or like a Cage , without a Bird , Or like a Scabbard and no Sword : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The house well kept , Guests entertaineth ; The Corn field reaped , men life sustaineth ; The Windmill sails , the Grain well grindeth ; Horseshoes with nails , sure footing finds ; The Bird in Cage , sings merrily ; The Sword in sheath , shows decently : So is that Maiden in mine eyes , Who loves and marries , ere she dies . Printed at London for Fr. Coules , dwell - ling in the Old-Bayly . OR , Pretty Comparisons wittily grounded , Which by scornful Maidens may best be expounded . To the tune of , Like to the Damask Rose : The second strain to be sung twice over . LIke to a Dovecote never haunted , Or a Petition never granted ; Or like broadcloth without a Taylor , Or like a Jail without a Jailor ; Or like a Lanthorn without a light , Or Wedding-day without a nigh Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Dovecote haunted , yields much profit ; The Petition granted , good comes of it ; The Taylor puts broadcloth in shape , The Jailor lets no Prisoner 'scape ; The Candle light is the Lanthorns treasure , The Wedding-night crowns all the pleasure : So is that Maiden in mine eyes , Who loves and marries ere she dies . Like to a Ring without a finger , Or like a Bell without a ringer ; Or like a Horse that's never ridden , Or like a Feast , and no Guests bidden ; Or like a Well without a Bucket , Or like a Rose and no one pluck i Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Ring , if worn , the finger decketh , The Bell , if rung , good music makes ; The Horse does ease , if he be ridden , The Feast does please , if Guests be bidden ; The Bucket draws the water for thee , The Rose , when plucked , is then most worthy : So is that Maiden , etc Like to a Stock not grafted on , Or like a Lute ne're play'd upon , Or like a Jack without a weight , Or like a Bark without a fraught , Or like a Lock without a key , Or like a Soldier without pay : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Stock that's grafted , yields best fruit , Best Musick's in the finger'd Lute , The weight does make the Jacke go ready , The fraught does make the Bark go steady , The Key the Lock does open right , The Soldier paid is prove to figh So is that Maiden , etc Like to a Needle without thread , Or like a word without a deed , Or like a warrant never seal'd , Or like a thought that's never reveal'd , Or like a line without a book , Or like good meat without a Cook : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The thread with Needle yields much pleasure , The deed and word make decent measure , The Seal in force the Warrant makes ; The thought reveal'd , all doubt forsakes , The Hook with Line does catch the Fish , The Cook of meat makes wholesome dishes : So is that Maiden in mine eyes , Who loves and marries ere she dies . The second part . To the same Tune . LIke to a Question and no Answer , Or like a call without Anon Sir , Or like a Ship was never rig'd , Or like a Mine was never dig'd , Or like a wound without a plaster , Or like a household and no Master : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Question answered , strife appeaseth . Anon , Anon , the caller pleases , The rigged Ship sails with the Wind , Who digs the Mine shall treasure find ; The wound is by the plaster cured , The house by th' Master is secured : So is that Maiden in mine eyes , That loves and marries ere she dies . Like to a Marrow bone never broken , Or commendations and no token , Or like a Fort and none to win it , Or like the Moon and no man in it , Or like a School without a Teacher , Or like a Pulpit and no Preacher : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Marrow bone that's broke eats pleasant , The Token makes a grateful present , There's triumph in the Fort that's wone , The man rides glorious in the Moon , The School is by the Teacher stil'd , The Pulpit's by the Preacher fill'd . So is that Maiden , etc Like to a Pistol and no shot , Or like a Promise quite forgotten , Or like a Hawk that's never man'd , Or like a Hide before 'tis tan'd , Or like a Coach and never a horse , Or like a Coffin and no Corpse : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The Pistol charged , helps in danger ; He that keeps promise , is no ranger ; The Hawk that's man'd , yields Princely sport ; The Hide well tan'd , there's much use for't ; The Horse does cause the Coach to carry , The Coffin's us'd the Corpse to bury : So is that Maiden , etc Like to a house by no one kept , Or like a Corn field never reaped , Or like a Windmill without sails , Or like a Horseshoe without nails , Or like a Cage , without a Bird , Or like a Scabbard and no Sword : Just such as those may she be said , That time does loose , and dies a Maid . The house well kept , Guests entertaineth ; The Corn field reaped , men life sustaineth ; The Windmill sails , the Grain well grindeth ; Horseshoes with nails , sure footing finds ; The Bird in Cage , sings merrily ; The Sword in sheath , shows decently : So is that Maiden in mine eyes , Who loves and marries , ere she dies . Printed at London for Fr. Coules , dwell - ling in the Old-Bayly . 