Londons Ordinary , Or every man in his humour . To a pleasant new Tune . THrough the Royal Exchainge as I walked , Where Gallants in satin do shine : At midst of the day they parted away To seaverall places to dine . The Gentry went to the Kings head , The Nobles unto the Crown : The Knights went to the Golden Fleece , And the Plough men to the Clown . The Clergy will dine at the Miter , The Vintners at the three Tons : The Usurers to the Devil will go And the Friars to the Nuns . The Ladies will dine at the Feathers The Globe no Captain will scorn : The Hunt's men will go to the Grey hound below And some Towns men to the Horn . The Plummers will dine at the Fountain , The Cooks at the holly Lamb : The Drunkerds by noon to the Man in the Moon , And the Cuckolds to the Ram . The Roarers will dine at the Lion . The Water men at the old Swan : And Bawds will to the Negro go , And Whores to the naked Man. The Keepers will to the white Heart , The Merchants unto thn Ship : The Beggars they must take their way To the Egg shell and the Whip . The Farryers will to the Horse , The Black smith unto the Lock : The Butchers unto the Bull will go And the Carmen to Bridewll dock . The Fish mongers unto the Dolphin , The Barbers to the Cheat loaf : The Turners unto the Ladle will go Where they may merrily quaff . The Tailors will dine at the Sheeres , The Shoe makers will to the Boot : The Welshmen they will take their way And dine at the sign of the Goat . The Second part . To the same Tune . THe Hosiers will dine at the Leg , The drapers at the sign of the Brush : The Fletchers to Rodin hood will go And the Spendthrift to Beggars Bush : The Pewterers to the Quart pot , The Coopers will dine at the Hoop : The Cobblers to the Last will go And the Barge men to the Scoop . The Carpenters will to the Axe , The Coliers will dine at the Sack : Your Fruiterer he to the Cherry tree Good fellows no liquour will lack . The Gold smith will to the three Cups , For money they hold it as dross : Your Puritan to the Pewter can And your Papists to the Cross . The Weavers will dine at the Shuttele , The Glovers will unto the Glove : The Maidens all to the Maiden head And true Lovers unto the Dove . The Saddlers will dine at the Saddle , The Painters will to the green Dragon : The Dutchmen will go to the Froe , Where each man will drink his Flagon . The Chandlers will dine at the Skales , The Salters at the sign of the Bag : The Porters take pain at the Labour in vain And the Horse courser to the white Nag . Thus every man in his humour , That comes from the North or the South : But he that hath no money in his purse , May dine at the sine of the Mouth , The Swaggerers will dine at the Fencers , But those that have lost their wits : With Bedlam Tom let that be their home , And the Drum the drummers best fits . The Cheter will dine at the Checker , The Pick pockets in a blind Ale house : Tell on and tried then up Holborne they ride And they their end at the Gallows . Printed at London by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . Finis . Londons Ordinary , Or every man in his humour . To a pleasant new Tune . THrough the Royal Exchainge as I walked , Where Gallants in satin do shine : At midst of the day they parted away To seaverall places to dine . The Gentry went to the Kings head , The Nobles unto the Crown : The Knights went to the Golden Fleece , And the Plough men to the Clown . The Clergy will dine at the Miter , The Vintners at the three Tons : The Usurers to the Devil will go And the Friars to the Nuns . The Ladies will dine at the Feathers The Globe no Captain will scorn : The Hunt's men will go to the Grey hound below And some Towns men to the Horn . The Plummers will dine at the Fountain , The Cooks at the holly Lamb : The Drunkerds by noon to the Man in the Moon , And the Cuckolds to the Ram . The Roarers will dine at the Lion . The Water men at the old Swan : And Bawds will to the Negro go , And Whores to the naked Man. The Keepers will to the white Heart , The Merchants unto thn Ship : The Beggars they must take their way To the Egg shell and the Whip . The Farryers will to the Horse , The Black smith unto the Lock : The Butchers unto the Bull will go And the Carmen to Bridewll dock . The Fish mongers unto the Dolphin , The Barbers to the Cheat loaf : The Turners unto the Ladle will go Where they may merrily quaff . The Tailors will dine at the Sheeres , The Shoe makers will to the Boot : The Welshmen they will take their way And dine at the sign of the Goat . The Second part . To the same Tune . THe Hosiers will dine at the Leg , The drapers at the sign of the Brush : The Fletchers to Rodin hood will go And the Spendthrift to Beggars Bush : The Pewterers to the Quart pot , The Coopers will dine at the Hoop : The Cobblers to the Last will go And the Barge men to the Scoop . The Carpenters will to the Axe , The Coliers will dine at the Sack : Your Fruiterer he to the Cherry tree Good fellows no liquour will lack . The Gold smith will to the three Cups , For money they hold it as dross : Your Puritan to the Pewter can And your Papists to the Cross . The Weavers will dine at the Shuttele , The Glovers will unto the Glove : The Maidens all to the Maiden head And true Lovers unto the Dove . The Saddlers will dine at the Saddle , The Painters will to the green Dragon : The Dutchmen will go to the Froe , Where each man will drink his Flagon . The Chandlers will dine at the Skales , The Salters at the sign of the Bag : The Porters take pain at the Labour in vain And the Horse courser to the white Nag . Thus every man in his humour , That comes from the North or the South : But he that hath no money in his purse , May dine at the sine of the Mouth , The Swaggerers will dine at the Fencers , But those that have lost their wits : With Bedlam Tom let that be their home , And the Drum the drummers best fits . The Cheter will dine at the Checker , The Pick pockets in a blind Ale house : Tell on and tried then up Holborne they ride And they their end at the Gallows . Printed at London by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . Finis . 