The little Barly-Corne . Whose Properties and Virtues here , Shall plainly to the world appear : To make you merry all the year . To the tune of Stingo . COme , and do not musing stand , if thou the truth discern , But take a full cup in thy hand , and thus begin to learn , Not of the earth , nor of the air , at evening or at morn , But jovial boys your Christmas keep with the little Barly-Corne . It is the cunningest Alchemist , that ere was in the Land , 'Twill change your mettle when it list , in turning of a hand , Your blushing Gold to Silver won , your Silver into Brass , 'Twill turn a Taylor to a man , and a man into and ass . 'Twill make a poor man rich to hang a sign before his door , And those that do the Pitcher hang , though rich 'twill make them poor ; 'Twill make the silliest poorest Snake , the Kings great Porter scorn , 'Twill make the stoutest Lubber weak , this little Barly-Corne . It hath more shifts then Lamb ere had , or Hocus Pocus too , It will good fellows show more sport , then Banks his horse could do : 'Twill play you fair above the board , unless you take good heed , And fell you though you were a Lord , and justify the deed . It lends more years unto old age , than ere was lent by nature , It makes the Poets fancy rage , more than Castalian water : 'Twill make a Huntsman chase a Fox , and never wind his horn , 'Twill cheer a Tinker in the stocks , this little Barly-Corne . It is the only Will oth'wispe , which leads men from the way , 'Twill make the tongue-ti'd Lawyer lisp and nought but ( hic up ) say , 'Twill make the Steward droop & stoop , his Bills he then will scorn , And at each post cast his reckoning up , this little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make a man grow jealous soon , whose pretty Wife goes trim , And rail at the deceiving Moon , for making horns at him : 'Twill make the Maidens trimly dance , and take it in no scorn , And help them to a friend by chance ; this little Barly-Corne . It is the neatest Servingman , to entertain a friend , It will do more than money can , all jarring suits to end : There's life in it , and it is here , 'tis here within this cup , Then take your liquour do not spare , but clear carouse it up . The second part of the little Barly-Corne , That cheereth the heart both evening and morn . To the same Tune . IF sickness come , this Physic take , it from your heart will set it , If fear encroach , take more of it , your heart will soon forget it , Apollo and the Muses nine , do take it in no scorn , There's no such stuff to pass the time as the little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make a weeping Widow laugh , and soon incline to pleasure : 'Twill make and old man leave his staff and dance a youthful measure ; And though your clothes be never so bad , all ragged , rend , and torn , Against the cold you may be clad , with the little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make a Coward not to shrink , but be as stout as may be ; 'Twill make a man that he shall think , that Jone's as good as my Lady : It will enrich the palest face , and with Rubies it adorn , Yet you shall think it no disgrace , this little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make your Gossips merry , when they their liquour see , Heigh we shall never be weary , sweet Gossip here's to thee ; 'Twill make the Country Yeoman , the Courtier for to scorn , And talk of Lawsuits over a Can , with this little Barly-Corne . It makes a man that write cannot , to make you large Indentures , When as he reels home at night , upon the Watch he ventures , He cares not for the Candlelight , that shines in the horn , Yet he will stumble the way aright , this little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make a Mizer prodigal , and show himself kind hearted , 'Twill make him never grieve at all , that from his Coin hath parted , 'Twill make the Shepherd to mistake his Sheep before a storm : 'Twill make the Poet to excel , this little Barly-Corne . It will make young Lads to call most freely for their liquour , 'Twill make a young Lass take a fallen , and rise again the quicker : 'Twill make a man that he shall sleep all night profoundly , And make a man what ere he be , go about his business roundly . Thus the Barly-Corne hath power , even for to change our nature , And make a Shrew within and hour , prove a kindhearted creature : And therefore here I say again , let no man tak't in scorn , That I the virtues do proclaim , of the little Barly-Corne . Printed at London for E.B. The little Barly-Corne . Whose Properties and Virtues here , Shall plainly to the world appear : To make you merry all the year . To the tune of Stingo . COme , and do not musing stand , if thou the truth discern , But take a full cup in thy hand , and thus begin to learn , Not of the earth , nor of the air , at evening or at morn , But jovial boys your Christmas keep with the little Barly-Corne . It is the cunningest Alchemist , that ere was in the Land , 'Twill change your mettle when it list , in turning of a hand , Your blushing Gold to Silver won , your Silver into Brass , 'Twill turn a Taylor to a man , and a man into and ass . 'Twill make a poor man rich to hang a sign before his door , And those that do the Pitcher hang , though rich 'twill make them poor ; 'Twill make the silliest poorest Snake , the Kings great Porter scorn , 'Twill make the stoutest Lubber weak , this little Barly-Corne . It hath more shifts then Lamb ere had , or Hocus Pocus too , It will good fellows show more sport , then Banks his horse could do : 'Twill play you fair above the board , unless you take good heed , And fell you though you were a Lord , and justify the deed . It lends more years unto old age , than ere was lent by nature , It makes the Poets fancy rage , more than Castalian water : 'Twill make a Huntsman chase a Fox , and never wind his horn , 'Twill cheer a Tinker in the stocks , this little Barly-Corne . It is the only Will oth'wispe , which leads men from the way , 'Twill make the tongue-ti'd Lawyer lisp and nought but ( hic up ) say , 'Twill make the Steward droop & stoop , his Bills he then will scorn , And at each post cast his reckoning up , this little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make a man grow jealous soon , whose pretty Wife goes trim , And rail at the deceiving Moon , for making horns at him : 'Twill make the Maidens trimly dance , and take it in no scorn , And help them to a friend by chance ; this little Barly-Corne . It is the neatest Servingman , to entertain a friend , It will do more than money can , all jarring suits to end : There's life in it , and it is here , 'tis here within this cup , Then take your liquour do not spare , but clear carouse it up . The second part of the little Barly-Corne , That cheereth the heart both evening and morn . To the same Tune . IF sickness come , this Physic take , it from your heart will set it , If fear encroach , take more of it , your heart will soon forget it , Apollo and the Muses nine , do take it in no scorn , There's no such stuff to pass the time as the little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make a weeping Widow laugh , and soon incline to pleasure : 'Twill make and old man leave his staff and dance a youthful measure ; And though your clothes be never so bad , all ragged , rend , and torn , Against the cold you may be clad , with the little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make a Coward not to shrink , but be as stout as may be ; 'Twill make a man that he shall think , that Jone's as good as my Lady : It will enrich the palest face , and with Rubies it adorn , Yet you shall think it no disgrace , this little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make your Gossips merry , when they their liquour see , Heigh we shall never be weary , sweet Gossip here's to thee ; 'Twill make the Country Yeoman , the Courtier for to scorn , And talk of Lawsuits over a Can , with this little Barly-Corne . It makes a man that write cannot , to make you large Indentures , When as he reels home at night , upon the Watch he ventures , He cares not for the Candlelight , that shines in the horn , Yet he will stumble the way aright , this little Barly-Corne . 'Twill make a Mizer prodigal , and show himself kind hearted , 'Twill make him never grieve at all , that from his Coin hath parted , 'Twill make the Shepherd to mistake his Sheep before a storm : 'Twill make the Poet to excel , this little Barly-Corne . It will make young Lads to call most freely for their liquour , 'Twill make a young Lass take a fallen , and rise again the quicker : 'Twill make a man that he shall sleep all night profoundly , And make a man what ere he be , go about his business roundly . Thus the Barly-Corne hath power , even for to change our nature , And make a Shrew within and hour , prove a kindhearted creature : And therefore here I say again , let no man tak't in scorn , That I the virtues do proclaim , of the little Barly-Corne . Printed at London for E.B. 