The Maidens complaint of her Loves inconstancy , Showing it forth in every degree : She being left as one forlorn , With sorrows she her self to adorn , And seems for to lament and mourn . To a delicate new tune . YOu Maids and wives , and women kind , Give ear , and you shall hear my mind , Wherein I'll show most perfectly , A false Youngman's inconstancy : For which I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . I love where I have cause to hate , Such is my foolish fickle state , My time I spend in grief and woe , Which , sure will be my overthrow : I sighs , and sob , and then do weep , For that false men no faith can keep . My Love to me does prove untrue , And seems to bid me now adieu : Oh hateful wretch , and most unkind , To bear so false and wicked mind : It makes me sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . Hee's fled and gone , for which I grieve , I wish no Maiden him believe , For he with tempting speeches will Seek others now for to beguile : That they with me may sighs and weep , And say that men no faith can keep . Shall I be bound that may be free : Shall I love them that love not me ? Why should I thus seem to complain ? I see I cannot him obtain . Which makes me sob , and sighs , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . O shall I weep , or shall I sing ? I know not which will fit mourning : If that I weep 'twill breed me pain , If that I sing 'twill ease my brain : Therefore I'll sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . The Jewel's lost , the thief is fled , And I lie wounded in my bed : If to repent I should begin , They'l say it I that let him in : Therefore I'll sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . My mind to him was always true , For which I now have cause to rue : Would I had never seen his face , Nor trodden the paths of Cupids raze : For now I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . The second part , To the same tune . WHat hap hath any he or she , That can but live at liberty , And not be troubled as I am , As by my Song you understand , It makes me sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . I cannot take my quiet rest , To think on him that I lov'd bes Sometime when I do think to sleep , Then thought of him makes me to weep : I cannot choose but sighs , and sob , To think of him that does me rob . This true indeed he robbeth me , Of my content and liberty : My heart can now no comfort find , To think on him that proves unkind : I cannot choose but sighs and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . My head does ache , mine eyes are soar , And I can find no help therefore : My body's faint , and I am weak , My tongue is tied I cannot speak : Yet still I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . My days are short , my life's not long , I cannot well declare my wrong : Yet in some part , I here do show , That you the cause hereof may know : Wherefore I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . His tempting eyes , and smiling looks , Now seem to me like baited hooks , Which are but laid for to betray The Fish that's greedy of his prey : Therefore I sob , and sighs , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . When first with me he came in place , He did me with his arms embrace : He kissed me on't , and swore that he Would never have not one but me : Yet now he makes me sob and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . With words most fair he did entreat , Until my favour he did ge But him uncertain I do find , And changing like the wavering wind : Which makes me sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . He vow'd to bear a faithful mind , But he is otherwise inclin'd : He now does seem as strange to me , I cannot have his company : Which makes me sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . Thus seems my Love to do me wrong , Wherefore I'll here conclude my Song : I'll never trust false men no more , Nor doe as I have done before : For which I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . Printed at London for E.W. dwelling at Christs-Church Gate . FINIS . The Maidens complaint of her Loves inconstancy , Showing it forth in every degree : She being left as one forlorn , With sorrows she her self to adorn , And seems for to lament and mourn . To a delicate new tune . YOu Maids and wives , and women kind , Give ear , and you shall hear my mind , Wherein I'll show most perfectly , A false Youngman's inconstancy : For which I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . I love where I have cause to hate , Such is my foolish fickle state , My time I spend in grief and woe , Which , sure will be my overthrow : I sighs , and sob , and then do weep , For that false men no faith can keep . My Love to me does prove untrue , And seems to bid me now adieu : Oh hateful wretch , and most unkind , To bear so false and wicked mind : It makes me sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . Hee's fled and gone , for which I grieve , I wish no Maiden him believe , For he with tempting speeches will Seek others now for to beguile : That they with me may sighs and weep , And say that men no faith can keep . Shall I be bound that may be free : Shall I love them that love not me ? Why should I thus seem to complain ? I see I cannot him obtain . Which makes me sob , and sighs , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . O shall I weep , or shall I sing ? I know not which will fit mourning : If that I weep 'twill breed me pain , If that I sing 'twill ease my brain : Therefore I'll sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . The Jewel's lost , the thief is fled , And I lie wounded in my bed : If to repent I should begin , They'l say it I that let him in : Therefore I'll sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . My mind to him was always true , For which I now have cause to rue : Would I had never seen his face , Nor trodden the paths of Cupids raze : For now I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . The second part , To the same tune . WHat hap hath any he or she , That can but live at liberty , And not be troubled as I am , As by my Song you understand , It makes me sighs , and sob , and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . I cannot take my quiet rest , To think on him that I lov'd bes Sometime when I do think to sleep , Then thought of him makes me to weep : I cannot choose but sighs , and sob , To think of him that does me rob . This true indeed he robbeth me , Of my content and liberty : My heart can now no comfort find , To think on him that proves unkind : I cannot choose but sighs and weep , To see false men no faith can keep . My head does ache , mine eyes are soar , And I can find no help therefore : My body's faint , and I am weak , My tongue is tied I cannot speak : Yet still I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . My days are short , my life's not long , I cannot well declare my wrong : Yet in some part , I here do show , That you the cause hereof may know : Wherefore I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . His tempting eyes , and smiling looks , Now seem to me like baited hooks , Which are but laid for to betray The Fish that's greedy of his prey : Therefore I sob , and sighs , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . When first with me he came in place , He did me with his arms embrace : He kissed me on't , and swore that he Would never have not one but me : Yet now he makes me sob and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . With words most fair he did entreat , Until my favour he did ge But him uncertain I do find , And changing like the wavering wind : Which makes me sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . He vow'd to bear a faithful mind , But he is otherwise inclin'd : He now does seem as strange to me , I cannot have his company : Which makes me sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . Thus seems my Love to do me wrong , Wherefore I'll here conclude my Song : I'll never trust false men no more , Nor doe as I have done before : For which I sighs , and sob , and weep , To see that men no faith can keep . Printed at London for E.W. dwelling at Christs-Church Gate . FINIS . 