The merry Careless Lover : OR , A pleasant new Ditty , called , I love a Lass since yesterday , And yet I cannot get her . To the tune of , The Mother beguiled the Daughter . OFt have I herd of many men , which love have soar tormented , With grief of heart , and bitter smart , and minds much discontented . Such love to me shall never be distasteful , grievous bitter . I have loved a Lass since yesterday , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , if she refuse , and go to take another : I will not grieve , but still will be the merry careless Lover . I will no foolish Lover be , to waste my means upon her : But if she do prove firm to me , in heart I will her honour . And if she scorn my part to take , I know a way to fit her , My heart with grief shall never ache , what man soever get her . Then let her choose , if she refuse , and go to take another , etc And yet I know not what to think , she makes a show she loves me , What need I fear from me she'l shrink , some foolish passion moves me , Sometime to hope , sometime to fear , it hangs upon a Twitter , Whither she hates or loves me deer , to loose her , or to get her . But let her choose , if she refuse etc Some women they are in firm in love , and some they are uncertain Scarce one in twenty loyal prove , yet if it were my fortune To get this Lass unto my wife , I know not one more fitter , In lawful love to lead one lives , if 'twere my hap to get her . But let her choose , etc I am a man indifferent , whither she will or will not My Sweetheart be for to love me , if she do's not , it skills not . If she fancy me , I'll constant be , this Lass she is a Knitter . And I have her loved since yesterday , but yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , if she refuse , and go to take another , I'll never grieve , but still will be the merry careless Lover . The second part , To the same tune . THis Lass she does in Yorkeshire live , there in a Town call'd Forset , Her mind to labour she does give , she can knit Silk or Worset . I know not well what I should say , in speech she's sometime bitter , And I have her loved since yesterday , and yet I cannot get he . But let her choose , if she refuse , And go to take another , I'll never grieve , but still will be the merry careless Lover . Sometime she will upon me smile , and sometime she is sullen , As she does fit , and Stockings knits , of Jarsie and of Woollen , She gets the praise above the rest , to be a curious Knitter : She loves me , as she does profess , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc Her Portion is not very much , but for the same what care I , So she with me will but keep touch , and not in mind will vary , For pelf I do not pass a straw , her beauty likes me better , For I have her loved since yesterday , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc I will bethink me what is best a way for to be taken , Her love to gain , and her obtain , I would not be forsaken , Nor would I have her say me nay , nor give me speeches bitter , For I have her loved since yesterday , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc I have her Father's free consent , that she with me should marry : Her Mother likewise is content , and grieves that she should carry So prouds a mind , or be unkind to me in speeches bitter , For I bear to her a loving mind , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc With her I at a Wedding was , where we did dance together , She is a curious handsome Lass , and yet like winds and weather , Her mind does change , she's kind , she's strange , mild , gentle , cruel , bitter , Yet howsoever I love her deer , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc Yet will I hope upon the best , all foolish fears excluding , And at her faithful service rest , thus here in brief concluding , With some deer friend to her I'll send , a kind and loving letter , And hope in time her love to gain , and for my Wife to get her . And then I'll sing with merry cheer , this Ditty and no other , Whil'st breath does last , and life be past , I will be a faithful Lover . FINIS . By Robert Guy . Printed at London for F. Coules . The merry Careless Lover : OR , A pleasant new Ditty , called , I love a Lass since yesterday , And yet I cannot get her . To the tune of , The Mother beguiled the Daughter . OFt have I herd of many men , which love have soar tormented , With grief of heart , and bitter smart , and minds much discontented . Such love to me shall never be distasteful , grievous bitter . I have loved a Lass since yesterday , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , if she refuse , and go to take another : I will not grieve , but still will be the merry careless Lover . I will no foolish Lover be , to waste my means upon her : But if she do prove firm to me , in heart I will her honour . And if she scorn my part to take , I know a way to fit her , My heart with grief shall never ache , what man soever get her . Then let her choose , if she refuse , and go to take another , etc And yet I know not what to think , she makes a show she loves me , What need I fear from me she'l shrink , some foolish passion moves me , Sometime to hope , sometime to fear , it hangs upon a Twitter , Whither she hates or loves me deer , to loose her , or to get her . But let her choose , if she refuse etc Some women they are in firm in love , and some they are uncertain Scarce one in twenty loyal prove , yet if it were my fortune To get this Lass unto my wife , I know not one more fitter , In lawful love to lead one lives , if 'twere my hap to get her . But let her choose , etc I am a man indifferent , whither she will or will not My Sweetheart be for to love me , if she do's not , it skills not . If she fancy me , I'll constant be , this Lass she is a Knitter . And I have her loved since yesterday , but yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , if she refuse , and go to take another , I'll never grieve , but still will be the merry careless Lover . The second part , To the same tune . THis Lass she does in Yorkeshire live , there in a Town call'd Forset , Her mind to labour she does give , she can knit Silk or Worset . I know not well what I should say , in speech she's sometime bitter , And I have her loved since yesterday , and yet I cannot get he . But let her choose , if she refuse , And go to take another , I'll never grieve , but still will be the merry careless Lover . Sometime she will upon me smile , and sometime she is sullen , As she does fit , and Stockings knits , of Jarsie and of Woollen , She gets the praise above the rest , to be a curious Knitter : She loves me , as she does profess , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc Her Portion is not very much , but for the same what care I , So she with me will but keep touch , and not in mind will vary , For pelf I do not pass a straw , her beauty likes me better , For I have her loved since yesterday , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc I will bethink me what is best a way for to be taken , Her love to gain , and her obtain , I would not be forsaken , Nor would I have her say me nay , nor give me speeches bitter , For I have her loved since yesterday , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc I have her Father's free consent , that she with me should marry : Her Mother likewise is content , and grieves that she should carry So prouds a mind , or be unkind to me in speeches bitter , For I bear to her a loving mind , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc With her I at a Wedding was , where we did dance together , She is a curious handsome Lass , and yet like winds and weather , Her mind does change , she's kind , she's strange , mild , gentle , cruel , bitter , Yet howsoever I love her deer , and yet I cannot get her . But let her choose , etc Yet will I hope upon the best , all foolish fears excluding , And at her faithful service rest , thus here in brief concluding , With some deer friend to her I'll send , a kind and loving letter , And hope in time her love to gain , and for my Wife to get her . And then I'll sing with merry cheer , this Ditty and no other , Whil'st breath does last , and life be past , I will be a faithful Lover . FINIS . By Robert Guy . Printed at London for F. Coules . 