A merry Jest of John Tomson , and Jakaman his Wife : Whose Jealousy was justly , the cause all their strife . To the Tune of Pegge of Ramsoy . WHen I was a Bachelor I liv'd a merry life : But now I am a married man , and troubled with a wife , I cannot do as I have done , because I live in fear : If I go but to Isli [ n ] gton , my wife is watching there . Give me my yellow Hose again , give me my yellow hose : For now my wife she watches me , see yonder where she goes . But when I was a prentice bound , and my Indentures made : In many faults I have been found , yet never thus afraid . For if I chance now by the way , a woman for to kiss : The rest are ready for to say , thy wife shall know of this . Give me my yellow hose , etc Thus when I come in company , I pass my mirth in fear : For one or other merrily , will say my wife is there . And then my look doth make them laugh , to see my woeful case : How I stand like John hold my staff , and dare not show my face . Give me my yellow hose , etc Then comes a handsome woman in , and shakes me by the hand : But how my wife she did begin , now you shall understand . Fair dame ( quoth she ) why dost thou so , he gave his hand to me : And thou shalt know [ w ] before thou go , he is no man for thee . Give me my yellow hose , etc Good wife ( quoth she ) now do not scold , I will do so no more : I thought I might have been so bold , I knowing him before , With that my wife was almost mad , yet many did entreat her : And I , God knows , was very sad , for fear she would have beatrice her . Give me my yellow hose , etc Thus marriage is and enterprise , Experience does show : But scolding is and exercise , that married men do know . For all this while there was no blows , yet still their tongues was talking : And very feign would yellow hose , have had her fists a walking . Give me my yellow , etc In comes a neighbour of our town , and honest man , God woe And he must needs go fit him down , and call in for his pot . And said to me , I am the man , which gave to you your wife : And I will do the best I can , to mend this wicked life . Give me my yellow hose again , give me my yellow hose : For now my wife she watches me , see yonder where she goes , The second Part , to the same Tune . I Gave him thanks , and bade him go , and so he did indeed : And told my wife she was a shrow , but that was more then need . Says he thou hast and honest man , and one that loves thee well : Said she you are a fool good sir , Its more then you can tell . Give me my yellow hose , etc And yet in truth he loves me , but many more beside : And I may say good sir to thee , that cannot I abide . For though he loves me as his life , yet now sir wot you wha They say he loves his neighbours wife , I pray you how like you that Give me my yellow hose , etc Says he I hope I never shall , seek fancy found to follow : For love is lawful unto all , except it be too yellow . Which lies like the Jaundice so , In these our women's faces : That watch their husbands where they go , and hunt them out in places . Give me my yellow hose , etc Now comes my Neighbours wife apace , to talk a woe [ r ] worser or two : My wife then meets her face to face , and says dame is it you , That makes so much of my good man , as if he were your own ? Then clamp as closely as you can , I know it will be known . Give me my yellow hose , etc Now when I saw the woman gone , I call'd my wife aside , And said why art thou such a one , that thou canst not abide A woman for to talk with me , this is a woeful case : That I must ke [ e ] pe no company , except you be in place . This makes Bachelors to woo , so long before they wed : Because they hear that women now , will be their Husbands head . And s [ e ] ven year long I tarried , for Jakaman my wife : But now that I am married , I am weary of my life . Give me my yellow hose , etc For yellow love is too too bad , without all wit or policy : And too much love hath made her mad , and fill'd her full of Jealousy . Shee thinks I am in love with those , I [ s ] peak to passing by : That makes her wear the yellow hose , I gave her for to die . Give me my yellow hose , etc But now I see she is so hight , and lives so much at ease : I will go get a Soldiers coat , and sail beyond the Seas : To s [ e ] rve my Captain where and when , though it be to my pain : Thus farewell gentle Jakaman , till we two meet again . Give me my yellow hose , etc Quoth she good husband do not deal , thus hardly now with me , And of a truth I will reveal , my cause of jealousy : You know I always paid the score , you put me still in trus I saved twenty pound and more , confess it needs I must . Give me my yellow hose , etc But now my saving of the same , For ought that I do know : Made Jealousy to fix her frame , to weave this web of woe : And thus this foolish love of mine , was very fondly ben But now my gold and goods are thine , good husband be content . Give me my yellow hose , etc And thus to lead my life a new , I fully now purpose : That thou mayest change thy coat of blue , and I my yellow hose . This being done our Country wives may warning take by me , How they do live such j [ e ] alous lives , as I have done with thee . Give me my yellow hose again , give me my yellow hose : For now my wife she watches me , see yonder where she goes . FINIS . M.L. Imprinted at London for Edward Wright . A merry Jest of John Tomson , and Jakaman his Wife : Whose Jealousy was justly , the cause all their strife . To the Tune of Pegge of Ramsoy . WHen I was a Bachelor I liv'd a merry life : But now I am a married man , and troubled with a wife , I cannot do as I have done , because I live in fear : If I go but to Isli [ n ] gton , my wife is watching there . Give me my yellow Hose again , give me my yellow hose : For now my wife she watches me , see yonder where she goes . But when I was a prentice bound , and my Indentures made : In many faults I have been found , yet never thus afraid . For if I chance now by the way , a woman for to kiss : The rest are ready for to say , thy wife shall know of this . Give me my yellow hose , etc Thus when I come in company , I pass my mirth in fear : For one or other merrily , will say my wife is there . And then my look doth make them laugh , to see my woeful case : How I stand like John hold my staff , and dare not show my face . Give me my yellow hose , etc Then comes a handsome woman in , and shakes me by the hand : But how my wife she did begin , now you shall understand . Fair dame ( quoth she ) why dost thou so , he gave his hand to me : And thou shalt know [ w ] before thou go , he is no man for thee . Give me my yellow hose , etc Good wife ( quoth she ) now do not scold , I will do so no more : I thought I might have been so bold , I knowing him before , With that my wife was almost mad , yet many did entreat her : And I , God knows , was very sad , for fear she would have beatrice her . Give me my yellow hose , etc Thus marriage is and enterprise , Experience does show : But scolding is and exercise , that married men do know . For all this while there was no blows , yet still their tongues was talking : And very feign would yellow hose , have had her fists a walking . Give me my yellow , etc In comes a neighbour of our town , and honest man , God woe And he must needs go fit him down , and call in for his pot . And said to me , I am the man , which gave to you your wife : And I will do the best I can , to mend this wicked life . Give me my yellow hose again , give me my yellow hose : For now my wife she watches me , see yonder where she goes , The second Part , to the same Tune . I Gave him thanks , and bade him go , and so he did indeed : And told my wife she was a shrow , but that was more then need . Says he thou hast and honest man , and one that loves thee well : Said she you are a fool good sir , Its more then you can tell . Give me my yellow hose , etc And yet in truth he loves me , but many more beside : And I may say good sir to thee , that cannot I abide . For though he loves me as his life , yet now sir wot you wha They say he loves his neighbours wife , I pray you how like you that Give me my yellow hose , etc Says he I hope I never shall , seek fancy found to follow : For love is lawful unto all , except it be too yellow . Which lies like the Jaundice so , In these our women's faces : That watch their husbands where they go , and hunt them out in places . Give me my yellow hose , etc Now comes my Neighbours wife apace , to talk a woe [ r ] worser or two : My wife then meets her face to face , and says dame is it you , That makes so much of my good man , as if he were your own ? Then clamp as closely as you can , I know it will be known . Give me my yellow hose , etc Now when I saw the woman gone , I call'd my wife aside , And said why art thou such a one , that thou canst not abide A woman for to talk with me , this is a woeful case : That I must ke [ e ] pe no company , except you be in place . This makes Bachelors to woo , so long before they wed : Because they hear that women now , will be their Husbands head . And s [ e ] ven year long I tarried , for Jakaman my wife : But now that I am married , I am weary of my life . Give me my yellow hose , etc For yellow love is too too bad , without all wit or policy : And too much love hath made her mad , and fill'd her full of Jealousy . Shee thinks I am in love with those , I [ s ] peak to passing by : That makes her wear the yellow hose , I gave her for to die . Give me my yellow hose , etc But now I see she is so hight , and lives so much at ease : I will go get a Soldiers coat , and sail beyond the Seas : To s [ e ] rve my Captain where and when , though it be to my pain : Thus farewell gentle Jakaman , till we two meet again . Give me my yellow hose , etc Quoth she good husband do not deal , thus hardly now with me , And of a truth I will reveal , my cause of jealousy : You know I always paid the score , you put me still in trus I saved twenty pound and more , confess it needs I must . Give me my yellow hose , etc But now my saving of the same , For ought that I do know : Made Jealousy to fix her frame , to weave this web of woe : And thus this foolish love of mine , was very fondly ben But now my gold and goods are thine , good husband be content . Give me my yellow hose , etc And thus to lead my life a new , I fully now purpose : That thou mayest change thy coat of blue , and I my yellow hose . This being done our Country wives may warning take by me , How they do live such j [ e ] alous lives , as I have done with thee . Give me my yellow hose again , give me my yellow hose : For now my wife she watches me , see yonder where she goes . FINIS . M.L. Imprinted at London for Edward Wright . 