The Brickmakers Lamentation from New-gate : OR , A true Report of the Indicting , Arraignment , Trial , and Convicting of four of the Brickmakers Court of Injustice : for the Notorious Riot committed on the Body of one Richard Lambart , Brickmaker of Fullum , who they Arraigned , Indicted , and had almost Executed , for some pre - tended idle words . Their Examination , and Trial , and Sentence they are to undergo , expressed as follows . The Tune is , Packingtons Pound . GOod people come hither and listen a while , I'le tell you a story shall make you to smile For such a bold project there never was herd , As now in this Ballad shall soon be declar'd ; The Brickmakers they This project did play , The Elventh of August as people do say : Let this be a warning that others take heed ; Their court of injustice will smart for the deed . In Rainy wet weather it was I suppose , When each bonny Brickmaker steeled his nose , They drink their cups round , & do merrily prate Each Brickmaker seemed a Lord in conceit ; While thus they Carouse , And call on the House , One of them his bred and his cheese he did loose And one in the company there he did atackt , As guilty of Felony for this bold act . They call'd him Dick Lambart whom he did accuse , Who , he said , such activity often did use ; And there for his life he would have him be tried A Judge and a Jury this deed should deside ; A Court there was call'd , The Crier he bawl'd And there with his flounder-mouth loudly he yaul'd . And then on the bench for a judge there set down One in a read waistcoat which serv'd for a gown . A Judge and a Jury , and Clark's did appear , A Sheriff and also a Hangman was there , The Judge being set and prisoner brought forth The plaintiff be there on a brickbat took oath , that to his great cost Too lately he lost , Some bred & some cheese which he sav'd for a toast , And that Richard Lambart had taken his peck , Who for it deserv'd to be noos'd by the neck . FOr this he had sentence by which he was forced To be burned in the hand with and apple hight roast And afterwards he on that apple must feed , This Sentence he had for his Felonious deed ; But now comes the worst More bad then the first , Poor Richard his fortune it was so accursed ; A Witness held forth , and he there did declare , That Richard spoke Treason and he did it hear . He said the Kings drums they did make a great found But in the midst of them not guts to be found , And that the Kings horses with Iron were shod , And often on dirt and on stones they have trod ; That they so were fed With butter and bred , They lost all the Rases what ever was laid : And that the Kings Goshawks had god no more foul Then is in the nightbird that's called and Owl . This was the Indictment on which he was try'd , The Jury was sworn on a Brickbat beside , The Evidence there did make it out plain And Lambart away from the Bar he was taken ; Their Jury went out , And brought it about , That Lambart was guilty of Treason no doubt ; And then by the Judge he was sentenc'd , that he , Should hang by the neck on the Tiborn Tree . A Clay cart they god , and a horse in't beside , And put Lambart in it , and him fast down ty'd , And then unto 'th Gallows they do him convey , With a Guard of their Officers all on the way , A Brickbat to read , As they did proceed , And then on the Gallows they hang'd him indeed : Thus have you herd of the Brickmakers Court , who hang men in earnest , and count it their sport . A Groom of the Kings stables came riding that way , Seeing this rebel rout to them did say , I see you've condemned this man in the Town , But here's a reprieve and he must be cut down : This being done , Away then did run , This Court of Injustice each mother's Son. The Judge and the Hangman was taken in the act And two of the Jurymen since for that fact . This court of Injustice appeared in time At Seshions house there for to answer their crime A hundred pound is laid on each head , Or else due imprisonment till it be paid : In New-gate they are , Remaining in care , Of farther punishment they are in fear : And thus you have herd of the Brickmakers Court Who hang men in earnest & count it their sport . London , Printed for Phillip Brooksby , next door to the Ball in West Smithfield . The Brickmakers Lamentation from New-gate : OR , A true Report of the Indicting , Arraignment , Trial , and Convicting of four of the Brickmakers Court of Injustice : for the Notorious Riot committed on the Body of one Richard Lambart , Brickmaker of Fullum , who they Arraigned , Indicted , and had almost Executed , for some pre - tended idle words . Their Examination , and Trial , and Sentence they are to undergo , expressed as follows . The Tune is , Packingtons Pound . GOod people come hither and listen a while , I'le tell you a story shall make you to smile For such a bold project there never was herd , As now in this Ballad shall soon be declar'd ; The Brickmakers they This project did play , The Elventh of August as people do say : Let this be a warning that others take heed ; Their court of injustice will smart for the deed . In Rainy wet weather it was I suppose , When each bonny Brickmaker steeled his nose , They drink their cups round , & do merrily prate Each Brickmaker seemed a Lord in conceit ; While thus they Carouse , And call on the House , One of them his bred and his cheese he did loose And one in the company there he did atackt , As guilty of Felony for this bold act . They call'd him Dick Lambart whom he did accuse , Who , he said , such activity often did use ; And there for his life he would have him be tried A Judge and a Jury this deed should deside ; A Court there was call'd , The Crier he bawl'd And there with his flounder-mouth loudly he yaul'd . And then on the bench for a judge there set down One in a read waistcoat which serv'd for a gown . A Judge and a Jury , and Clark's did appear , A Sheriff and also a Hangman was there , The Judge being set and prisoner brought forth The plaintiff be there on a brickbat took oath , that to his great cost Too lately he lost , Some bred & some cheese which he sav'd for a toast , And that Richard Lambart had taken his peck , Who for it deserv'd to be noos'd by the neck . FOr this he had sentence by which he was forced To be burned in the hand with and apple hight roast And afterwards he on that apple must feed , This Sentence he had for his Felonious deed ; But now comes the worst More bad then the first , Poor Richard his fortune it was so accursed ; A Witness held forth , and he there did declare , That Richard spoke Treason and he did it hear . He said the Kings drums they did make a great found But in the midst of them not guts to be found , And that the Kings horses with Iron were shod , And often on dirt and on stones they have trod ; That they so were fed With butter and bred , They lost all the Rases what ever was laid : And that the Kings Goshawks had god no more foul Then is in the nightbird that's called and Owl . This was the Indictment on which he was try'd , The Jury was sworn on a Brickbat beside , The Evidence there did make it out plain And Lambart away from the Bar he was taken ; Their Jury went out , And brought it about , That Lambart was guilty of Treason no doubt ; And then by the Judge he was sentenc'd , that he , Should hang by the neck on the Tiborn Tree . A Clay cart they god , and a horse in't beside , And put Lambart in it , and him fast down ty'd , And then unto 'th Gallows they do him convey , With a Guard of their Officers all on the way , A Brickbat to read , As they did proceed , And then on the Gallows they hang'd him indeed : Thus have you herd of the Brickmakers Court , who hang men in earnest , and count it their sport . A Groom of the Kings stables came riding that way , Seeing this rebel rout to them did say , I see you've condemned this man in the Town , But here's a reprieve and he must be cut down : This being done , Away then did run , This Court of Injustice each mother's Son. The Judge and the Hangman was taken in the act And two of the Jurymen since for that fact . This court of Injustice appeared in time At Seshions house there for to answer their crime A hundred pound is laid on each head , Or else due imprisonment till it be paid : In New-gate they are , Remaining in care , Of farther punishment they are in fear : And thus you have herd of the Brickmakers Court Who hang men in earnest & count it their sport . London , Printed for Phillip Brooksby , next door to the Ball in West Smithfield . 