Mondayes Work . OR The two honest neighbours both birds of a feather Who are at the Alehouse both merry together . To the tune of , I owe my Hostess money . GOod morrow neighbour Gamble , Come let you and I go ramble , Last night I was shot Through the brains with a Pot , and now my stomach does wamble : Your Possets and your Caudles , Are fit for babes in Cradles : A piece of salt Hog , And a hair of the old Dog is good to cure our drunken Noddles , Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . I rose in the morning early , To take this Juice of barley , But if my wife Jone Knew where I were gone , shee'd call me to a Parley . My bones I do not favour , But honestly do labour : But when I am out , I must make a mad bout come here's half a pot to thee neighbour . Come hither , etc Gramarcy neighbour Jinkin , I see thou lovest no shrinking , And I for my part , From thee will not start , come fill us a little more drink in . I'th week we ask but one day , And that's next after Sunday , Our custom wee'le hold , Although our Wives scold , the Maltman comes a Monday . Come hither , etc Come let's have our Liquour about us , Mine Host do not misdoubt us , Yet if we should call , And pay none at all , you were better be without us : But we are no such fellows , Though some in clothes excel us , And yet have no coin , For Liquour to Join . yet we have both whites and yellows , Come hither , etc We scorn those rooking Rorers , That are such common scorers , No coin they can spare , Because they are such Dicers and such Whorers ; But we do hate such doing , Weel wast no means in wooing , Yet such as they be Make you think that we will not pay what is owing . Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . The second Part. To the same Tune . COme ply your work my Master's , Let us not be time wasters , To work or to play Very hard ( as some say ) is a sign of good fore-casters . Much prate to me is loathing To cumber the house for nothing , I hate a long tale , Give me some more Ale , which is meat , drink , and clothing , Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together If wicked Will the Weaver , Or True the Taylor either , Were here with us now , To part we knew not how , till we were drunk together : Or Tom the neat Shoemaker , Or Kit the Jovial Baker , If any one of these Come hither and see's , with us heel be a Partaker . Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . But sith there is no more here Weel say as we did before here , Between us weel call , And pay for it all , for we scorn to go on the score here , Let's take off our Liquour roundly , And though we do drink soundly , Our humour is such , Weel not drink so much , until we both on the ground lie . Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . Now lest our Wives should find us , This fit we should look behind us , Let's see what is done , Then pay and be gone . as honesty hath assign'd us . This strong Ale I conceive it , This good in time to leave it , Or else it will make , Our foreheads to ache , this vanity to out brave it . Come hither mine Host , come hither Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . London Printed for F. Grove . FINIS . Mondayes Work . OR The two honest neighbours both birds of a feather Who are at the Alehouse both merry together . To the tune of , I owe my Hostess money . GOod morrow neighbour Gamble , Come let you and I go ramble , Last night I was shot Through the brains with a Pot , and now my stomach does wamble : Your Possets and your Caudles , Are fit for babes in Cradles : A piece of salt Hog , And a hair of the old Dog is good to cure our drunken Noddles , Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . I rose in the morning early , To take this Juice of barley , But if my wife Jone Knew where I were gone , shee'd call me to a Parley . My bones I do not favour , But honestly do labour : But when I am out , I must make a mad bout come here's half a pot to thee neighbour . Come hither , etc Gramarcy neighbour Jinkin , I see thou lovest no shrinking , And I for my part , From thee will not start , come fill us a little more drink in . I'th week we ask but one day , And that's next after Sunday , Our custom wee'le hold , Although our Wives scold , the Maltman comes a Monday . Come hither , etc Come let's have our Liquour about us , Mine Host do not misdoubt us , Yet if we should call , And pay none at all , you were better be without us : But we are no such fellows , Though some in clothes excel us , And yet have no coin , For Liquour to Join . yet we have both whites and yellows , Come hither , etc We scorn those rooking Rorers , That are such common scorers , No coin they can spare , Because they are such Dicers and such Whorers ; But we do hate such doing , Weel wast no means in wooing , Yet such as they be Make you think that we will not pay what is owing . Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . The second Part. To the same Tune . COme ply your work my Master's , Let us not be time wasters , To work or to play Very hard ( as some say ) is a sign of good fore-casters . Much prate to me is loathing To cumber the house for nothing , I hate a long tale , Give me some more Ale , which is meat , drink , and clothing , Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together If wicked Will the Weaver , Or True the Taylor either , Were here with us now , To part we knew not how , till we were drunk together : Or Tom the neat Shoemaker , Or Kit the Jovial Baker , If any one of these Come hither and see's , with us heel be a Partaker . Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . But sith there is no more here Weel say as we did before here , Between us weel call , And pay for it all , for we scorn to go on the score here , Let's take off our Liquour roundly , And though we do drink soundly , Our humour is such , Weel not drink so much , until we both on the ground lie . Come hither mine Host , come hither , Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . Now lest our Wives should find us , This fit we should look behind us , Let's see what is done , Then pay and be gone . as honesty hath assign'd us . This strong Ale I conceive it , This good in time to leave it , Or else it will make , Our foreheads to ache , this vanity to out brave it . Come hither mine Host , come hither Here's two birds of a feather , Come hither mine Host With a Pot and a tossed , and let us be merry together . London Printed for F. Grove . FINIS . 