Bloody news from Germany or the peoples misery by famine , Being and example of Gods just judgement on one Harto a Noble man in Germany of the town of Ments who when the people were decayed ( by reason of a hard famine ) he gathered the poorer sort into a Barn , and burned them ( saying these are but as Rats that eat up all and do nothing else ) but the allseeing God left not this wickedness unpunished ; for he was so soar beset and beatrice with Rats , that his Castles top was never of - ter free of them , and at last devoured by them . Tune of , Chievy Chase . WHen as my mind was fully bent some story for to rhime , among all others none I found so fitting for the time , That which hereafter you shall hear may well compared be , Unto a Song of joyful news in pain and misery . Some write of Cupid and his bow with arrows sharp and keen , To pierce the tender hearts of them that are but young and green , Another loves of War to prate which is by Weapons done , And acted is by Sea and Land by Ship and roaring Gun. Another says he was in love once with a dainty Maid , But now he hates her cruelty when's god her maidenhead , Another muse with Hand and Pen describes a baudy rhime , But I will tell by true report what's done in former time . One Harto that in Mentz did dwell a Clergy Man was he , In that same Town Arch Bishop was of famous Germany , His charity was too to cold and nothing did abound , He to the poor a Miser was which made a rumour found . Now in his days there happened a famine on the earth And after that there did ensue a very pinching dearth This cruel man began to think he wanted his revenue , And many a Noble Man there was that was not worth a penny . He sent for all the Beggars round and put them in a Barn , And set them all in order strait as though he meant no harm , He sent his servants fire to bring for quickly they should burn , They with a howling noise cry'd out and dolefully did mourn . What ail the men ( quoth he at length ) like Rats and Mice you be That eat up all my sustenance and nothing give to me , When all my friends through famine want and are gone to decay Why should I give you any more but burn you quite away . These harmless men he put to death as Cain with Able did But from the Lord full true it is there's nothing can be hid : Their blood did call unto the Lord out of the ground and dust The Lord he hard attentively In judgement pure and just . He burned them all both young and old both man and Wife likewise , He spared none nor did respect the foolish or the wise , For why his mind was satisfi'd and bloody mind content , To see them all thus on a flame though others did lament . Yet God above did not forget this wicked unjust deed , For after that from Rats and mice he never could be freed , his Castles top no service did no Cats nor cruel Dogs , For why they came abundantly much like the Egyptian Frogs . They wasted all his cash and pelf which he laid up in store , Though he so surely locked up by dosen and by score , These Vermin so did multiply increasing day by day , They haunted all the rooms about the Chamber where he lay . Nay more then that himself was slave as he lay on his Bed , And when his Friends all did come in they found him to be dead , Thus God did punish him at length That was so bad and cruel , he put their Bodies in the fire and used them for fuel . And they did gnaw his Coat of Arms out of the graved Stone , and ever where they found his name of Letters they left none , This I do wish may be a guide to them that are so high , That never think upon the poor that are in misery . Nay were it but that they were so like Niggards in their Wealth , So they would not defraud the poor or put them unto death Wherefore let all with one accord think good for to amend , So shall my Pen begin to rest and lastly make and end . Printed for Phillip Brooksby near the Hospital gate . Bloody news from Germany or the peoples misery by famine , Being and example of Gods just judgement on one Harto a Noble man in Germany of the town of Ments who when the people were decayed ( by reason of a hard famine ) he gathered the poorer sort into a Barn , and burned them ( saying these are but as Rats that eat up all and do nothing else ) but the allseeing God left not this wickedness unpunished ; for he was so soar beset and beatrice with Rats , that his Castles top was never of - ter free of them , and at last devoured by them . Tune of , Chievy Chase . WHen as my mind was fully bent some story for to rhime , among all others none I found so fitting for the time , That which hereafter you shall hear may well compared be , Unto a Song of joyful news in pain and misery . Some write of Cupid and his bow with arrows sharp and keen , To pierce the tender hearts of them that are but young and green , Another loves of War to prate which is by Weapons done , And acted is by Sea and Land by Ship and roaring Gun. Another says he was in love once with a dainty Maid , But now he hates her cruelty when's god her maidenhead , Another muse with Hand and Pen describes a baudy rhime , But I will tell by true report what's done in former time . One Harto that in Mentz did dwell a Clergy Man was he , In that same Town Arch Bishop was of famous Germany , His charity was too to cold and nothing did abound , He to the poor a Miser was which made a rumour found . Now in his days there happened a famine on the earth And after that there did ensue a very pinching dearth This cruel man began to think he wanted his revenue , And many a Noble Man there was that was not worth a penny . He sent for all the Beggars round and put them in a Barn , And set them all in order strait as though he meant no harm , He sent his servants fire to bring for quickly they should burn , They with a howling noise cry'd out and dolefully did mourn . What ail the men ( quoth he at length ) like Rats and Mice you be That eat up all my sustenance and nothing give to me , When all my friends through famine want and are gone to decay Why should I give you any more but burn you quite away . These harmless men he put to death as Cain with Able did But from the Lord full true it is there's nothing can be hid : Their blood did call unto the Lord out of the ground and dust The Lord he hard attentively In judgement pure and just . He burned them all both young and old both man and Wife likewise , He spared none nor did respect the foolish or the wise , For why his mind was satisfi'd and bloody mind content , To see them all thus on a flame though others did lament . Yet God above did not forget this wicked unjust deed , For after that from Rats and mice he never could be freed , his Castles top no service did no Cats nor cruel Dogs , For why they came abundantly much like the Egyptian Frogs . They wasted all his cash and pelf which he laid up in store , Though he so surely locked up by dosen and by score , These Vermin so did multiply increasing day by day , They haunted all the rooms about the Chamber where he lay . Nay more then that himself was slave as he lay on his Bed , And when his Friends all did come in they found him to be dead , Thus God did punish him at length That was so bad and cruel , he put their Bodies in the fire and used them for fuel . And they did gnaw his Coat of Arms out of the graved Stone , and ever where they found his name of Letters they left none , This I do wish may be a guide to them that are so high , That never think upon the poor that are in misery . Nay were it but that they were so like Niggards in their Wealth , So they would not defraud the poor or put them unto death Wherefore let all with one accord think good for to amend , So shall my Pen begin to rest and lastly make and end . Printed for Phillip Brooksby near the Hospital gate . 