A most godly and comfortable Ballad of the glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ , how he triumphed over death , hell , and sin , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our rising again from the dead . To the tune of Rogero . WHat faithless froward sinful man , so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe the rising from the dead : Or why do wicked mortal men , their lives on earth so frame : That being dead they do suppose , they shall not rise again ? For why , if that the dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be rais'd again , then Christ did never rise : And if so be our Saviour sweet , did not arise from death : Our preaching is of no effect , and vain is hope on earth . If Christ rose not again , I say , then are we yet in sin : And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the creatures living then , which God on earth did frame , Most wretched are the state of men , which spend their time in vain . But Christ is risen up from death , as it was right and me And thereby trod down death and Hell , and sin under his fee And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear : The glorious rising of the Lord , his Word declareth here . When he within the Grave was laid , the Jewes did watchmen set , Lest by his friends his corpse from thence should secretly be fe A mighty stone likewise they did on his Sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . And in the dead time of the night , a mighty earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea and Land , and all within the same . And then the Angel of the Lord , came down from Heaven so high , And rolled away the mighty stone , which on the grave did lie . The second part , To the same tune . HIs face did shine like flaming fire , his clothes were white as snow , Which put the watchmen in great fear , who ran away for woe : And told unto the high Priest plain , what I do now rehearse : Who hired them for money straight , that they should hold their peace . And say , quoth they , his servants came , which he sometime did keep : And secretly stole him away , while we were found asleep . And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so : That you shall have no hurt at all , wherever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James his Mother too , Had brought great store of ointment sweet , as Jewes were wont to do : Who rose up early in the morn , before that it was day : The body of the Lord to anoint , in grave whereas he lay . And when unto the grave they ran , they were in wondrous fear : They saw a young man in the same , but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them , why are you so afraid ? The Lord whom you do seek , I know , is risen up , he said . Then went the Women both away , who told these tidings than : To John and Peter , who in haste , to the Sepulchre ran , Who found it as the Women said , and then away did go : But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears declar'd her woe . Who looking down into the grave , two Angels there did see , Quoth they , why weeps this woman so : even for my Lord , quoth she . And turning then her self aside , as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep , he said , whom seeks she in this place ? She thought he had a gardener been , and thus she shows her case : If thou hast born him hence , she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again , be sure I will not miss . What , Marry , then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me ? O Master , livest thou again ? my soul does joy in thee : Oh Marry , touch me not , he said , ere I have been above : Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear , to his disciples all : But Thomas would not yet believe , his faith it was so small : Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear did pierce his tender side . Then Christ which knew all secret thoughts , to them again came he ; Who said to Thomas here I am , as plainly thou mayest see . See here the hands which nails did pierce , and feel thou here my side : And be not faithless , Oh thou man , for whom these pains I bide . Thus sundry times Christ showed himself , when he did rise again : And then ascended he to Heaven , in glory for to reign : Where he prepares a place for those , whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in heavenly bliss , above the lofty skies . FINIS . London , Printed for Francis Coules dwelling at the lower end of the Old Bayley . A most godly and comfortable Ballad of the glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ , how he triumphed over death , hell , and sin , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our rising again from the dead . To the tune of Rogero . WHat faithless froward sinful man , so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe the rising from the dead : Or why do wicked mortal men , their lives on earth so frame : That being dead they do suppose , they shall not rise again ? For why , if that the dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be rais'd again , then Christ did never rise : And if so be our Saviour sweet , did not arise from death : Our preaching is of no effect , and vain is hope on earth . If Christ rose not again , I say , then are we yet in sin : And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the creatures living then , which God on earth did frame , Most wretched are the state of men , which spend their time in vain . But Christ is risen up from death , as it was right and me And thereby trod down death and Hell , and sin under his fee And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear : The glorious rising of the Lord , his Word declareth here . When he within the Grave was laid , the Jewes did watchmen set , Lest by his friends his corpse from thence should secretly be fe A mighty stone likewise they did on his Sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . And in the dead time of the night , a mighty earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea and Land , and all within the same . And then the Angel of the Lord , came down from Heaven so high , And rolled away the mighty stone , which on the grave did lie . The second part , To the same tune . HIs face did shine like flaming fire , his clothes were white as snow , Which put the watchmen in great fear , who ran away for woe : And told unto the high Priest plain , what I do now rehearse : Who hired them for money straight , that they should hold their peace . And say , quoth they , his servants came , which he sometime did keep : And secretly stole him away , while we were found asleep . And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so : That you shall have no hurt at all , wherever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James his Mother too , Had brought great store of ointment sweet , as Jewes were wont to do : Who rose up early in the morn , before that it was day : The body of the Lord to anoint , in grave whereas he lay . And when unto the grave they ran , they were in wondrous fear : They saw a young man in the same , but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them , why are you so afraid ? The Lord whom you do seek , I know , is risen up , he said . Then went the Women both away , who told these tidings than : To John and Peter , who in haste , to the Sepulchre ran , Who found it as the Women said , and then away did go : But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears declar'd her woe . Who looking down into the grave , two Angels there did see , Quoth they , why weeps this woman so : even for my Lord , quoth she . And turning then her self aside , as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep , he said , whom seeks she in this place ? She thought he had a gardener been , and thus she shows her case : If thou hast born him hence , she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again , be sure I will not miss . What , Marry , then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me ? O Master , livest thou again ? my soul does joy in thee : Oh Marry , touch me not , he said , ere I have been above : Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear , to his disciples all : But Thomas would not yet believe , his faith it was so small : Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear did pierce his tender side . Then Christ which knew all secret thoughts , to them again came he ; Who said to Thomas here I am , as plainly thou mayest see . See here the hands which nails did pierce , and feel thou here my side : And be not faithless , Oh thou man , for whom these pains I bide . Thus sundry times Christ showed himself , when he did rise again : And then ascended he to Heaven , in glory for to reign : Where he prepares a place for those , whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in heavenly bliss , above the lofty skies . FINIS . London , Printed for Francis Coules dwelling at the lower end of the Old Bayley . 