The Merry Cuckold . Who frolickly taking what chance does befall , Is very well pleased with Wife , Horns and all . To the tune of , The merry Cuckold . YOu married men whom Fate hath assign'd , To marry with them that are too much kind , Learn as I do , to bear with your wives , All you that do so , shall live merry lives . I have a Wife so wanton and so free , That she as her life , loves one beside me , What if she do , I care not a pin , Abroad I will go , when my rival comes in . I can be merry and drink away care , With Claret and Sherry and delicate fare . My Wife has a Trade , that will maintain me , What though it be said , that a Cuckold I be . While she at home is taking her pleasure , Abroad I do room , consuming her treasure . Of all that she gets . I share a good share , She pays all my debts , then for what should I care . She keeps me brave , and gallant in clothing , All things I have , I do want for nothing . Therefore I connive , and wink at her faults , And daily I strive , against jealous assaults While for small gains : my neighbours work hard , I live ( by her means ) and never regard , The troubles and cares , that belong to this life , I spend what few dares : gramercy good Wife . Should I be jealous , as other men are , My breath like to bellows , the fire of care Would blow and augment , therefore I think it best . To be well content , though I were Vulcans crest . Many a time upbraided I am , Some say I must dine , at the Bull or the Ram : Those that do jeer cannot do as I may , In Wine , Ale and Beer , spend a noble a day , The Second part . To the same Tune . I By experience , rightly do know : That no strife or variance , ( causes of woe ) Can make a wife so bent to live chaste , Thou in stead of strife , let patience be plac't , If a man had all Argus his eyes , A wife that is bad , will something devise , To gull him to's face , then what boors mistrust , The horns to disgrace , though wear it I must . I'll be content with this my hard chance , And in merriment my head I'll advance . Wishing I were but as rich as some men , Whose wives chaste appear , yet they'l kiss now and then . One trying to me , a great comfort is , Still quiet is she though I do amiss , She dares do no other , because she knows well , That gently I smoother , what most men would tell . If I should rave , her mind would not altar Her swing she will have . though't be in a halter . Then sith that I get good gains by her vice , I will not her let , but take share of the price . Why should I vex , and pine in despair , I know that her sex , are all brittle ware , And he that gets one who constanter abides , Obtains that which none , or but few have beside . Yet will I not , accuse my wife . For nothing is god , by railing , but strife . I act mine own sense . intending no wrong , No Cuckold nor Quean will care for this song . But a merry Wife , that's honest I know it , As deer as her life , will sure love the Poets And he thats no Cuckold in Country or City , However if luck hold , will buy this our Ditty . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . FINIS . The Merry Cuckold . Who frolickly taking what chance does befall , Is very well pleased with Wife , Horns and all . To the tune of , The merry Cuckold . YOu married men whom Fate hath assign'd , To marry with them that are too much kind , Learn as I do , to bear with your wives , All you that do so , shall live merry lives . I have a Wife so wanton and so free , That she as her life , loves one beside me , What if she do , I care not a pin , Abroad I will go , when my rival comes in . I can be merry and drink away care , With Claret and Sherry and delicate fare . My Wife has a Trade , that will maintain me , What though it be said , that a Cuckold I be . While she at home is taking her pleasure , Abroad I do room , consuming her treasure . Of all that she gets . I share a good share , She pays all my debts , then for what should I care . She keeps me brave , and gallant in clothing , All things I have , I do want for nothing . Therefore I connive , and wink at her faults , And daily I strive , against jealous assaults While for small gains : my neighbours work hard , I live ( by her means ) and never regard , The troubles and cares , that belong to this life , I spend what few dares : gramercy good Wife . Should I be jealous , as other men are , My breath like to bellows , the fire of care Would blow and augment , therefore I think it best . To be well content , though I were Vulcans crest . Many a time upbraided I am , Some say I must dine , at the Bull or the Ram : Those that do jeer cannot do as I may , In Wine , Ale and Beer , spend a noble a day , The Second part . To the same Tune . I By experience , rightly do know : That no strife or variance , ( causes of woe ) Can make a wife so bent to live chaste , Thou in stead of strife , let patience be plac't , If a man had all Argus his eyes , A wife that is bad , will something devise , To gull him to's face , then what boors mistrust , The horns to disgrace , though wear it I must . I'll be content with this my hard chance , And in merriment my head I'll advance . Wishing I were but as rich as some men , Whose wives chaste appear , yet they'l kiss now and then . One trying to me , a great comfort is , Still quiet is she though I do amiss , She dares do no other , because she knows well , That gently I smoother , what most men would tell . If I should rave , her mind would not altar Her swing she will have . though't be in a halter . Then sith that I get good gains by her vice , I will not her let , but take share of the price . Why should I vex , and pine in despair , I know that her sex , are all brittle ware , And he that gets one who constanter abides , Obtains that which none , or but few have beside . Yet will I not , accuse my wife . For nothing is god , by railing , but strife . I act mine own sense . intending no wrong , No Cuckold nor Quean will care for this song . But a merry Wife , that's honest I know it , As deer as her life , will sure love the Poets And he thats no Cuckold in Country or City , However if luck hold , will buy this our Ditty . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . FINIS . 