r A pleasant Ditty , of a Maidens Vow , That feign would Marry , and yet knew not how . To the tune of , Oh no , no , no , not yet . THere was a lusty the [ ut ] hfull Lad , that lov'd a Country Lass : And many a sweet discourse they had , as they alone did pass : This Youngman he was apt to woe , and well himself could carry , The Maid was kind of [ will ] ing mind , but yet she would not marry . This Young men heart was set on fire , and still he did invent , How he might compass his desire , and frustrate her inten For still this Maid said as before , from all thy hope's I'll bar thee : Therefore be gone , let me alone , in sooth I will not marry . This answer much dismayed him , and troubled so his mind , That he thereat look'd pale and grim , and no content could find : This Maiden she was nothing mov'd , nor from her words would vary , But constantly she did reply , I'll never yield to marry . My Love quoth he is so entire , and firm to thee my Dear , Whose love again I much desire , with many a weeping tear : Therefore sweet heart be not unkind , nor say that thou wilt tarry , But let me prove thy constant Love , and then consent to marry . Didst thou but know the inward grief , I suffer for thy Love , Thy flinty heart would yield relief , or more obdurate prove : My legs are grown so weak , that they my body scarce can carry , Then yield relief to ease my grief , and give consent to marry . No , no , quoth she thy flattering tongue , shall ne're obtain his suit , Thy tempting words have done me wrong , therefore I pray be mute : For I am fully purposed , henceforth to be more wary , Therefore away make no delay , for in sooth I will not marry . He asked her the reason why , she should reject him so : She would not wed she did reply , for friend nor yet for foe : Quoth she my years are yet but green , I am young enough to tarry , This twelve-monthes day , therefore away 'tis time enough to marry . Quoth he it makes me half despair , and troubles much my mind , That one so comely and so fair , should e're prove so unkind : Therefore sweet heart tell me the cause , that thou so much dost vary , From all the minds of Women kind , as to refuse to marry . The second part . To the same tune . DIdst thou but know the sweet delights , that Marriage does afford : And how fair Ladies , Lords and Knights in marriage bed accord : Thou wouldst not fondly make reply , th'art young enough to tarry , But be content and give consent , without delay to marry . He that says Love is vanity , shall ne're persuade me to it , Nor yet deny a courtesy , if any one will do i For I have made a Vow quoth she , and sworn by great King Harry , That till I have , the thing I crave , I will not yield to marry . If I had known the cause quoth he , why thou didst make denial , I quickly would have proffered thee , a sweet contenting trial : Which would have made thee soon consent though thou wertenberg ne're so wary , And never more , say as before , I'll never yield to marry . Then use your wit the Maid reply'd , for now you know the cause , A Maidens no , proves often I , to yield to Hymens laws : If you prove kind , the Maiden said , consent and do not tarry , And then I soon , will change this tune , and quickly yield to marry . With that the Youngman bade her , both keep secret , and prove kind , And he would verify her Oath , and satisfy her mind : Quoth she I shall be satisfied , if that thou dost not vary , But yet in troth , I am very loath , to give my grant to marry . With that they both concluded were , but wot you how she sped , By consequence it did appear , that it her liking bred : For when her Oath was verified , that she swore by King Harry , She never stayed but quickly said , sweet heart now let us marry . This Youngman's love . was quickly cold , that here betwixt them passed , Quoth he I will not be too bold , lest I repent at las For he that weds too hastily , had need for to be wary , lest he repent he gave consent , without advice to marry . Fair Maidens all take good advice , before you give consent , Unto your Loves in any wise , these folly's to preven For she that to perform her Vow , so long a time did tarry , Was brought to shame and much defame , before that she did marry . Imprinted at London for H.G. FINIS . r A pleasant Ditty , of a Maidens Vow , That feign would Marry , and yet knew not how . To the tune of , Oh no , no , no , not yet . THere was a lusty the [ ut ] hfull Lad , that lov'd a Country Lass : And many a sweet discourse they had , as they alone did pass : This Youngman he was apt to woe , and well himself could carry , The Maid was kind of [ will ] ing mind , but yet she would not marry . This Young men heart was set on fire , and still he did invent , How he might compass his desire , and frustrate her inten For still this Maid said as before , from all thy hope's I'll bar thee : Therefore be gone , let me alone , in sooth I will not marry . This answer much dismayed him , and troubled so his mind , That he thereat look'd pale and grim , and no content could find : This Maiden she was nothing mov'd , nor from her words would vary , But constantly she did reply , I'll never yield to marry . My Love quoth he is so entire , and firm to thee my Dear , Whose love again I much desire , with many a weeping tear : Therefore sweet heart be not unkind , nor say that thou wilt tarry , But let me prove thy constant Love , and then consent to marry . Didst thou but know the inward grief , I suffer for thy Love , Thy flinty heart would yield relief , or more obdurate prove : My legs are grown so weak , that they my body scarce can carry , Then yield relief to ease my grief , and give consent to marry . No , no , quoth she thy flattering tongue , shall ne're obtain his suit , Thy tempting words have done me wrong , therefore I pray be mute : For I am fully purposed , henceforth to be more wary , Therefore away make no delay , for in sooth I will not marry . He asked her the reason why , she should reject him so : She would not wed she did reply , for friend nor yet for foe : Quoth she my years are yet but green , I am young enough to tarry , This twelve-monthes day , therefore away 'tis time enough to marry . Quoth he it makes me half despair , and troubles much my mind , That one so comely and so fair , should e're prove so unkind : Therefore sweet heart tell me the cause , that thou so much dost vary , From all the minds of Women kind , as to refuse to marry . The second part . To the same tune . DIdst thou but know the sweet delights , that Marriage does afford : And how fair Ladies , Lords and Knights in marriage bed accord : Thou wouldst not fondly make reply , th'art young enough to tarry , But be content and give consent , without delay to marry . He that says Love is vanity , shall ne're persuade me to it , Nor yet deny a courtesy , if any one will do i For I have made a Vow quoth she , and sworn by great King Harry , That till I have , the thing I crave , I will not yield to marry . If I had known the cause quoth he , why thou didst make denial , I quickly would have proffered thee , a sweet contenting trial : Which would have made thee soon consent though thou wertenberg ne're so wary , And never more , say as before , I'll never yield to marry . Then use your wit the Maid reply'd , for now you know the cause , A Maidens no , proves often I , to yield to Hymens laws : If you prove kind , the Maiden said , consent and do not tarry , And then I soon , will change this tune , and quickly yield to marry . With that the Youngman bade her , both keep secret , and prove kind , And he would verify her Oath , and satisfy her mind : Quoth she I shall be satisfied , if that thou dost not vary , But yet in troth , I am very loath , to give my grant to marry . With that they both concluded were , but wot you how she sped , By consequence it did appear , that it her liking bred : For when her Oath was verified , that she swore by King Harry , She never stayed but quickly said , sweet heart now let us marry . This Youngman's love . was quickly cold , that here betwixt them passed , Quoth he I will not be too bold , lest I repent at las For he that weds too hastily , had need for to be wary , lest he repent he gave consent , without advice to marry . Fair Maidens all take good advice , before you give consent , Unto your Loves in any wise , these folly's to preven For she that to perform her Vow , so long a time did tarry , Was brought to shame and much defame , before that she did marry . Imprinted at London for H.G. FINIS . 