MAUDLIN The Merchant's Daughter of BRISTOL . To the Tune of , The Maiden's Joy , etc BEhold the touchstone of true love , Maudlin the Merchant's daughter of Bristow town , Whose firm affection nothing could move , her favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by , which many years had born this maiden great good will , She loved him so faithfully ; but all her friends withstood it still . The young man now perceiving well , he could not get nor win the favour of her friends , The force of sorrow to expel , and view strange countries he intends ; And now to take his last farewell of his true love , his fair and constant Maudlin , With music sweet that did excel , he played under her window then : Farewell ( quoth he ) mine own true love , farewell my dear and chiefest treasure of my heart , Through fortune's spite that false did prove , I am inforc'd from thee to part , Into the land of Italy : there will I wail and weary out my life in woe , Seeing my true love is kept from me , I hold my life a mortal foe : Fair Bristow town therefore adieu , for Padua shall be my habitation now , Although my love does rest in thee , to whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears thus did he sing , with sighs & sobs descending from his heart full soar , He said when he his hands did wring , farewell sweet love for evermore . Fair Maudlin from a window high , beholding her true love with music where he stood , But not a word she did reply , fearing her parents angry mood . In tears she spent that woeful night , wishing herself , though naked , with her faithful friend , She blames her friends and fortune's spite , that wrought her love such luckless end : And in her heart she made a vow , clean to forsake her country and her kindred all , And for to follow her true love , to abide all chance that might befall . The night is gone , and the day is come , and in the morning very early did she rise , She gets her down into a lower room , where sundry seamen she espies : A gallant master among them all , the master of a great and goodly ship was he , Who there was waiting in the hall , to speak with her father if it might be . She kindly takes him by the hand , Good sir , said she , & would thou speak with any here ? Quoth he , Fair maid , and therefore I do stand . Then gentle sir , I pray draw near ; Into a pleasant parlour by , both hand in hand she brings the seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteously , she thus to him did make her moan , She falls upon her bent knee , good sir , said she , now pity you a woman's woe , And prove a faithful friend to me , that I to you my grief may show . Sith you repose your trust , he said , in me , who am unknown , & eke a stranger here , Be you assur'd most proper Maid , most faithful still I will appear : I have a brother , then ( quoth she ) whom as my life I love & favour tenderly , In Padua , alas ! is he , full sick , God wot , and like to die , Full fain I would my brother see , but that my father will not yield to let me go , Therefore , good sir , be good to me , and unto me this favour show : Some ship-boy's garment bring to me , that I disguis'd may go unknown , And unto sea I'll go with thee , if thus much favour might be shown . Fair maid ( quoth he ) take here my hand , I will fulfil each thing that you desire , And set you safe in that same land , and in the place that you require . She gave to him a tender kiss , and says , Your servant master I will be , And prove your faithful friend for this , sweet master then forget not me . This done as they had both agreed , soon after that before the break of day , He brings her garments then with speed , therein herself she did array ; And e're her father did arise she meets her master as he walked in the hall , She did attend on him likewise , until her father did him call . But e're the merchant made and end of all his weighty matters all , His wife came weeping in with speed , saying , Our daughter's gone away . The merchant then amaz'd in mind , Yonder vile wretch intic'd away my child ( quod he [ ) ] But I well wot I shall him find at Padua in Italy . With that bespoke the master brave , Worshipful Merchant , thither goes this youth , And any thing that you would crave , he will perform and write the truth . Sweet youth ( quod he ) if it be so , bear me a letter to the English there , And gold on thee I will bestow ; my daughter's welfare I do fear . Her mother took her by the hand , Fair youth ( quod she ) if e're thou dost my daught [ er ] see Let me soon thereof understand , and there is twenty crowns for thee . Thus through the daughter's strange disguise , her mother knew not when she spoke unto her , Then after her master straight she hies taking her leave with countenance mild ; Thus to the sea sweet Maudlin is gone with her gentle master , God send them Where we a while must let them alone till you the second part do find . The Second PART of Sweet MAUDLIN , to the same Tune . WElcome sweet Maudlin from the seas , where bitter storms & tempests do arise , The pleasant banks of Italy , you may behold with mortal eyes ; Thanks gentle master , then said she , a faithful friend in sorrow thou hast been , If fortune once do smile on me , my gentle heart shall soon be seen ; Blessed be the land that feeds my love , blessed be the place whereas his person does abide , No trial will I stick to prove , whereby my true love may be try'd : Now will I walk with joyful heart , to view the town whereas my darling voth remain , And seek him out in every part , until his sighed I do obtain ; And I , quoth he , will not forsake sweet Maudlin in her sorrows up and down , In wealth or woe thy part i'll take , and bring thee safe to Padua town : And after many weary steps , in Padua they arrived at the last , For very joy her heart it leaps , she thinks not on her sorrows past , Condemn'd he was to die , alas ! except he would from his religion turn , But rather then he would to mass , in fiery flames he vow'd to burn . Now does sweet Maudlin weep and wail , her joy is turn'd to weeping , sorrow , grief & care , For nothing could her plaints prevail , for death alone must be his share , She walks under the prison walls , where her true love did lie & languish in di-stress , Then woefully for food he calls , when hunger did his heart oppress ; He sighs and sobs , and makes great moan , Farewell sweetheart for evermore , And all my friends that have me known , in Bristow town with wealth and store . But most of all , farewell , quoth he , my own sweet Maudlin whom I left behind , For never more thou shalt me see , woe to thy father most unkind : How well I were if thou were here , with thy fair hands to close these my wretched eyes My torments easy would appear , my soul with joy would scale the skies . When Maudlin herd her lover's moan , her eyes with tears , her heart with sorrow filled was , To speak with him no means was found , such grievous doom did on him pass . Then she put off her lad's attire , her maidens weed upon her back she seemly set , To the judge's house she did inquire , and there she did a service ge She did her duty there so well , and eke so prudently she did herself behave , With her in love her master fell his servant's favour he does crave : Maudlin , quoth he , my heart's delight , to whom my heart in affection is ty'd , Breed not my death through thy despite , a faithful friend thou shalt me find . O grant me thy love fair maid , quoth he , and at my hands desire what thou canst devise , And I will grant it unto thee , whereby thy credit may arise , I have a brother , sir , said she , for his religion is now condemn'd to die . In loathsome prison he is cast , oppressed with grief and misrey : Grant me my brother's life ( she said ) and now to you my love & liking will I give . That may not be ( quoth he ) fair maid , except he turn he cannot live : And English fryer there is ( she said ) of learning great , and passing pure of life , Let him to my brother be sent , and he will finish soon the strife . Her master granted her request , the mariner in fryer's weeds she did array ; And to her love that lay distressed , she did a letter soon convey , When he had read these gentle lines , his heart was ravished with pleasant joy , Where now she is full well he knew , the fryer likewise was not coy ; But did declare to him at large , the enterprise his love for him had taken in hand ; That MAUDLIN The Merchant's Daughter of BRISTOL . To the Tune of , The Maiden's Joy , etc BEhold the touchstone of true love , Maudlin the Merchant's daughter of Bristow town , Whose firm affection nothing could move , her favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by , which many years had born this maiden great good will , She loved him so faithfully ; but all her friends withstood it still . The young man now perceiving well , he could not get nor win the favour of her friends , The force of sorrow to expel , and view strange countries he intends ; And now to take his last farewell of his true love , his fair and constant Maudlin , With music sweet that did excel , he played under her window then : Farewell ( quoth he ) mine own true love , farewell my dear and chiefest treasure of my heart , Through fortune's spite that false did prove , I am inforc'd from thee to part , Into the land of Italy : there will I wail and weary out my life in woe , Seeing my true love is kept from me , I hold my life a mortal foe : Fair Bristow town therefore adieu , for Padua shall be my habitation now , Although my love does rest in thee , to whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears thus did he sing , with sighs & sobs descending from his heart full soar , He said when he his hands did wring , farewell sweet love for evermore . Fair Maudlin from a window high , beholding her true love with music where he stood , But not a word she did reply , fearing her parents angry mood . In tears she spent that woeful night , wishing herself , though naked , with her faithful friend , She blames her friends and fortune's spite , that wrought her love such luckless end : And in her heart she made a vow , clean to forsake her country and her kindred all , And for to follow her true love , to abide all chance that might befall . The night is gone , and the day is come , and in the morning very early did she rise , She gets her down into a lower room , where sundry seamen she espies : A gallant master among them all , the master of a great and goodly ship was he , Who there was waiting in the hall , to speak with her father if it might be . She kindly takes him by the hand , Good sir , said she , & would thou speak with any here ? Quoth he , Fair maid , and therefore I do stand . Then gentle sir , I pray draw near ; Into a pleasant parlour by , both hand in hand she brings the seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteously , she thus to him did make her moan , She falls upon her bent knee , good sir , said she , now pity you a woman's woe , And prove a faithful friend to me , that I to you my grief may show . Sith you repose your trust , he said , in me , who am unknown , & eke a stranger here , Be you assur'd most proper Maid , most faithful still I will appear : I have a brother , then ( quoth she ) whom as my life I love & favour tenderly , In Padua , alas ! is he , full sick , God wot , and like to die , Full fain I would my brother see , but that my father will not yield to let me go , Therefore , good sir , be good to me , and unto me this favour show : Some ship-boy's garment bring to me , that I disguis'd may go unknown , And unto sea I'll go with thee , if thus much favour might be shown . Fair maid ( quoth he ) take here my hand , I will fulfil each thing that you desire , And set you safe in that same land , and in the place that you require . She gave to him a tender kiss , and says , Your servant master I will be , And prove your faithful friend for this , sweet master then forget not me . This done as they had both agreed , soon after that before the break of day , He brings her garments then with speed , therein herself she did array ; And e're her father did arise she meets her master as he walked in the hall , She did attend on him likewise , until her father did him call . But e're the merchant made and end of all his weighty matters all , His wife came weeping in with speed , saying , Our daughter's gone away . The merchant then amaz'd in mind , Yonder vile wretch intic'd away my child ( quod he [ ) ] But I well wot I shall him find at Padua in Italy . With that bespoke the master brave , Worshipful Merchant , thither goes this youth , And any thing that you would crave , he will perform and write the truth . Sweet youth ( quod he ) if it be so , bear me a letter to the English there , And gold on thee I will bestow ; my daughter's welfare I do fear . Her mother took her by the hand , Fair youth ( quod she ) if e're thou dost my daught [ er ] see Let me soon thereof understand , and there is twenty crowns for thee . Thus through the daughter's strange disguise , her mother knew not when she spoke unto her , Then after her master straight she hies taking her leave with countenance mild ; Thus to the sea sweet Maudlin is gone with her gentle master , God send them Where we a while must let them alone till you the second part do find . The Second PART of Sweet MAUDLIN , to the same Tune . WElcome sweet Maudlin from the seas , where bitter storms & tempests do arise , The pleasant banks of Italy , you may behold with mortal eyes ; Thanks gentle master , then said she , a faithful friend in sorrow thou hast been , If fortune once do smile on me , my gentle heart shall soon be seen ; Blessed be the land that feeds my love , blessed be the place whereas his person does abide , No trial will I stick to prove , whereby my true love may be try'd : Now will I walk with joyful heart , to view the town whereas my darling voth remain , And seek him out in every part , until his sighed I do obtain ; And I , quoth he , will not forsake sweet Maudlin in her sorrows up and down , In wealth or woe thy part i'll take , and bring thee safe to Padua town : And after many weary steps , in Padua they arrived at the last , For very joy her heart it leaps , she thinks not on her sorrows past , Condemn'd he was to die , alas ! except he would from his religion turn , But rather then he would to mass , in fiery flames he vow'd to burn . Now does sweet Maudlin weep and wail , her joy is turn'd to weeping , sorrow , grief & care , For nothing could her plaints prevail , for death alone must be his share , She walks under the prison walls , where her true love did lie & languish in di-stress , Then woefully for food he calls , when hunger did his heart oppress ; He sighs and sobs , and makes great moan , Farewell sweetheart for evermore , And all my friends that have me known , in Bristow town with wealth and store . But most of all , farewell , quoth he , my own sweet Maudlin whom I left behind , For never more thou shalt me see , woe to thy father most unkind : How well I were if thou were here , with thy fair hands to close these my wretched eyes My torments easy would appear , my soul with joy would scale the skies . When Maudlin herd her lover's moan , her eyes with tears , her heart with sorrow filled was , To speak with him no means was found , such grievous doom did on him pass . Then she put off her lad's attire , her maidens weed upon her back she seemly set , To the judge's house she did inquire , and there she did a service ge She did her duty there so well , and eke so prudently she did herself behave , With her in love her master fell his servant's favour he does crave : Maudlin , quoth he , my heart's delight , to whom my heart in affection is ty'd , Breed not my death through thy despite , a faithful friend thou shalt me find . O grant me thy love fair maid , quoth he , and at my hands desire what thou canst devise , And I will grant it unto thee , whereby thy credit may arise , I have a brother , sir , said she , for his religion is now condemn'd to die . In loathsome prison he is cast , oppressed with grief and misrey : Grant me my brother's life ( she said ) and now to you my love & liking will I give . That may not be ( quoth he ) fair maid , except he turn he cannot live : And English fryer there is ( she said ) of learning great , and passing pure of life , Let him to my brother be sent , and he will finish soon the strife . Her master granted her request , the mariner in fryer's weeds she did array ; And to her love that lay distressed , she did a letter soon convey , When he had read these gentle lines , his heart was ravished with pleasant joy , Where now she is full well he knew , the fryer likewise was not coy ; But did declare to him at large , the enterprise his love for him had taken in hand ; The young man did the fryer charge , his love should straight depart the land . Here is no place for her ( he said ) but woeful death and danger of her life , Professing truth I was betrayed , and fearful flames must end the strife . For e'er I will my faith deny , and swear myself to follow damned antichrist , I'll yield my body for to die , to live in heaven with the highest . O sir , the gentle fryer said , consent thereto , and end the strife . A woeful match ( quoth he ) is made , where Christ is left to win a wife . When she had us'd all means she might , to save his life , and yet all would not be , Then of the judge she claim'd her right , to die the death as well as he . When no persuasions could prevail , nor change her mind in any thing that she had said , She was with him condemn'd to die , and for them both one fire was made : Yea , arm in arm most joyfully , these lovers twain unto the fire did go , The mariner most faithfully , was likewise partner of their woe . But when the judges understood , the faithful friendship did in them remain , They sav'd their lives , and afterwards , to England sent them back again . Now was their sorrow turn'd to joy , and faithful lovers have their hearts desire , Their pains so well they did employ , God granted that they did desire . And when they did to England come , and in merry Bristow arrived at the last , Great joy there was to all and some , that herd the dangers they had pass Her father he was dead God wot , and eke her mother was joyful at her sighed , Their wishes she denied not , but wedded them to hearts deligh Her gentle master she desired , to be her father , and at church to give her then ; It was fulfilled as she required , to the joys of all good men . Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and sold by J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-smithfield . e young man did the fryer charge , his love should straight depart the land . Here is no place for her ( he said ) but woeful death and danger of her life , Professing truth I was betrayed , and fearful flames must end the strife . For e'er I will my faith deny , and swear myself to follow damned antichrist , I'll yield my body for to die , to live in heaven with the highest . O sir , the gentle fryer said , consent thereto , and end the strife . A woeful match ( quoth he ) is made , where Christ is left to win a wife . When she had us'd all means she might , to save his life , and yet all would not be , Then of the judge she claim'd her right , to die the death as well as he . When no persuasions could prevail , nor change her mind in any thing that she had said , She was with him condemn'd to die , and for them both one fire was made : Yea , arm in arm most joyfully , these lovers twain unto the fire did go , The mariner most faithfully , was likewise partner of their woe . But when the judges understood , the faithful friendship did in them remain , They sav'd their lives , and afterwards , to England sent them back again . Now was their sorrow turn'd to joy , and faithful lovers have their hearts desire , Their pains so well they did employ , God granted that they did desire . And when they did to England come , and in merry Bristow arrived at the last , Great joy there was to all and some , that herd the dangers they had pass Her father he was dead God wot , and eke her mother was joyful at her sighed , Their wishes she denied not , but wedded them to hearts deligh Her gentle master she desired , to be her father , and at church to give her then ; It was fulfilled as she required , to the joys of all good men . Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and sold by J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-smithfield . 