Match me this Wedding . OR , A health that was drunk in Sider and Perrie . And good strong Beer to , which did make the lads merry . To a new Court tune . OF late there was a wedding , kept in fair Gloster town , Where lads to drink their Lasses health , did bravely fit them down , And first bespoke the Bridegroom , here's a health unto my Bride , And to all the sweethearts ev'ry one , young men you have beside . The first spoke kind Toby , a Welch-man I protest , Here's unto young Guintlin , a Lass that I love best , Theres not her like for beauty , search all your English shires , And he that dares deny it , wee'l have him by the ears . With that bespoke young Samuel , pretty Bessee is my deer , For true love and for constancy , none can my Love come near , And therefore kind Toby , if thou'lt maintain thy word , Bear witness all that hears me speak , I'le make thee eat my sword . With that bespoke honest John , my Nan's of beauty free , Though not so fair as others are , yet that ne'r troubles me , Her love was ever constant , and so shall mine be still , Therefore my Nannies health I'll pledge , with love and true good will . Then Thomas he took up the cup , being the fourth in place , My turn is come quoth he to drink , a health to my sweets Grace , Her friends did ever love me , as if I were their own , Therefore my constant love to her , for ever shall be shown . Then William took the cup in hand , and thus began to say , Fair Bridget I have wooed oft , but still she says me nay . Her friends were ever willing that married we should be , Therefore my Bridgets health I'll drink in hope she will love me . With that spoke bold Joseph , if a man had house and land , A Woman to consume it , would help him out of hand , And for to get a sweetheart , I never took no care : Therefore brave gallants of your healths I mean to drink no share . With that spoke trusty Roger , this man's not of my mind , For I have sweethearts three or foure , of nature good and kind , But yet my peerless Peggy is a Diamond in my eye , Therefore my Peggies health I'll drink , and love her till I die . The second part To the same tune . THen Philip took the cup in hand , quoth he as others do , With all my heart this health I'll drink , unto my own sweet Sue . For beauty and for constancy , I know she has a share , But for her housewifery , my Susan shall with best compare . Then Francis took the cup in hand , and said , friends do you hear , This health is to fair Maudlin , a lass that I love deer , Not London , nor fair Bristow , nor Yorke that merry town , For true love and for constancy , can put my Maudlin down . Then Henry took the cup in hand , and then these words he said , Here's a health unto my Marry , but truth is she's no maid , She is a widow gallants , that hath both house and land , Beside a handsome woman too , Idem have you understand . Then Charles took up the cup , and said these words most bold , Here's a health unto my Rachell , which must not be controlled , Though Morgan said Rachell was his , and challeng'd me the field , Proud Morgan knows I bravely there made him his sword up yield . Then Laurence he took up the cup , quoth he to make and end , Here's a health unto fair Isabell , my constant loving friend , Her friends and mine have talked , and thereon are agreed , Therefore fair Isabell I intend , to marry with all speed . When all this strife was ended , I took the cup in hand , And drunk a health unto my friends , in order as they stand , First to my loving Hostis , that loves a pot and a toste , And to her honest husband , call'd my read nose Host. Next health is to all Tailors , where ever they do dwell , That never boiled their Cabbaged , within a pit called hell . A health unto the Baker , that never was misled , Nor yet put in the Pillory , for sizing of his bred . A health unto the Widow , that ne're did braule nor scold , That hath a fair young daughter , of ninety nine years old . A health to all good huswives , that ne're did swear nor curse , Nor never did pick money , out of their husbands purse . And thus they broke up company , all friends for ought I know , And every one most willingly , unto their home did go . Had not young Samuel at first , allayed the Welshmans heat , He would have sworn them cowards all , and said he did them beatrice . FINIS . J.S. Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . Match me this Wedding . OR , A health that was drunk in Sider and Perrie . And good strong Beer to , which did make the lads merry . To a new Court tune . OF late there was a wedding , kept in fair Gloster town , Where lads to drink their Lasses health , did bravely fit them down , And first bespoke the Bridegroom , here's a health unto my Bride , And to all the sweethearts ev'ry one , young men you have beside . The first spoke kind Toby , a Welch-man I protest , Here's unto young Guintlin , a Lass that I love best , Theres not her like for beauty , search all your English shires , And he that dares deny it , wee'l have him by the ears . With that bespoke young Samuel , pretty Bessee is my deer , For true love and for constancy , none can my Love come near , And therefore kind Toby , if thou'lt maintain thy word , Bear witness all that hears me speak , I'le make thee eat my sword . With that bespoke honest John , my Nan's of beauty free , Though not so fair as others are , yet that ne'r troubles me , Her love was ever constant , and so shall mine be still , Therefore my Nannies health I'll pledge , with love and true good will . Then Thomas he took up the cup , being the fourth in place , My turn is come quoth he to drink , a health to my sweets Grace , Her friends did ever love me , as if I were their own , Therefore my constant love to her , for ever shall be shown . Then William took the cup in hand , and thus began to say , Fair Bridget I have wooed oft , but still she says me nay . Her friends were ever willing that married we should be , Therefore my Bridgets health I'll drink in hope she will love me . With that spoke bold Joseph , if a man had house and land , A Woman to consume it , would help him out of hand , And for to get a sweetheart , I never took no care : Therefore brave gallants of your healths I mean to drink no share . With that spoke trusty Roger , this man's not of my mind , For I have sweethearts three or foure , of nature good and kind , But yet my peerless Peggy is a Diamond in my eye , Therefore my Peggies health I'll drink , and love her till I die . The second part To the same tune . THen Philip took the cup in hand , quoth he as others do , With all my heart this health I'll drink , unto my own sweet Sue . For beauty and for constancy , I know she has a share , But for her housewifery , my Susan shall with best compare . Then Francis took the cup in hand , and said , friends do you hear , This health is to fair Maudlin , a lass that I love deer , Not London , nor fair Bristow , nor Yorke that merry town , For true love and for constancy , can put my Maudlin down . Then Henry took the cup in hand , and then these words he said , Here's a health unto my Marry , but truth is she's no maid , She is a widow gallants , that hath both house and land , Beside a handsome woman too , Idem have you understand . Then Charles took up the cup , and said these words most bold , Here's a health unto my Rachell , which must not be controlled , Though Morgan said Rachell was his , and challeng'd me the field , Proud Morgan knows I bravely there made him his sword up yield . Then Laurence he took up the cup , quoth he to make and end , Here's a health unto fair Isabell , my constant loving friend , Her friends and mine have talked , and thereon are agreed , Therefore fair Isabell I intend , to marry with all speed . When all this strife was ended , I took the cup in hand , And drunk a health unto my friends , in order as they stand , First to my loving Hostis , that loves a pot and a toste , And to her honest husband , call'd my read nose Host. Next health is to all Tailors , where ever they do dwell , That never boiled their Cabbaged , within a pit called hell . A health unto the Baker , that never was misled , Nor yet put in the Pillory , for sizing of his bred . A health unto the Widow , that ne're did braule nor scold , That hath a fair young daughter , of ninety nine years old . A health to all good huswives , that ne're did swear nor curse , Nor never did pick money , out of their husbands purse . And thus they broke up company , all friends for ought I know , And every one most willingly , unto their home did go . Had not young Samuel at first , allayed the Welshmans heat , He would have sworn them cowards all , and said he did them beatrice . FINIS . J.S. Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . 