The Man in the Moon Drinks Clarret . As it was lately sung at the Curtain Holy Well . To the same Tune . BAcchus the father of drunken Nowls , Full Mazers , Beakers , Glasses , bowls , Greasy Flapdragons , Flemish upsie freeze , With health s [ tO ] ap'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like bumbasters . Drink till you reel a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live ? Not a Painter purer colour shows than whats laid on by Claret , Pearl and Ruby does set out the Nose , when thin small beer does mar it , Rich wine is good , it heats the blood , it makes and old man lusty , The Young to brawl , and the Drawers call , before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves to whittle , Then though twelve a Clock it be , Yet all the way go roaring , If the band of bills cry stand , Swear that you must a Who -- Such Gambols , such tricks , such fegaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaries : Drink wine till the Welkin roars , And cry out a pox of your Scores . In wine we call for bawdy Jigs , Catzoes , Rumbillows , whirligigs , Campo get in Huff Cap vain , The Devil in the places you wot were reign , Brave wine it thus tickles our Heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels , Our Moon-man & his powder-beef mad crew Thus caper thro' the liquour sweet turnip drew , Round about over tables and joint stools let's dance with naked Rapiers , Cut the Fiddlestrings , and then like fools kick out the fum fum scrapers , There is no found that cares can wound , as lids of wine-pots clinking , There's no such sport , when all amort , men cry lets fallen to drinking ; Oh 'tis nappy Geer , Would each belly was filled here , Herrings pickled must be tickled , Down to draw the liquour , The salt Sammon and fat Gammon , Makes our wine drink quicker , Our Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , With powder-beef turnip and carret , If he does so , why should not you , Drink until the Sky looks blue . Hey for a turn thus above Ground , Oh my Noddle too heavy does weigh , Metheglin , Perry , Sider , nor strong ale , Are half so heavy , be they never so stale : Wine in our Guts can never rumble , Down now and then tho' it make us tumble ; Yet scrambling up a Drunkard feels no pain , but cries Sirrah boy , tother pottle again , We can drink no more unless we have full pipes of Trinnidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains more warm than does freezado . It makes us sing and cry heigh ding , And laugh when Pipes lie broken , For which to pay at going away , we scorn a Mustard token ; Never curse the saucy Score , Outswear the bar you'll pay no more ; in these days he is no Gallant That cannot puff and swagger , though he dare not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his dagger : If then you do love my Hosts Clarret , Fat powder-beef , turnip and carret , Come again and again , And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . The Man in the Moon Drinks Clarret . As it was lately sung at the Curtain Holy Well . To the same Tune . BAcchus the father of drunken Nowls , Full Mazers , Beakers , Glasses , bowls , Greasy Flapdragons , Flemish upsie freeze , With health s [ tO ] ap'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like bumbasters . Drink till you reel a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live ? Not a Painter purer colour shows than whats laid on by Claret , Pearl and Ruby does set out the Nose , when thin small beer does mar it , Rich wine is good , it heats the blood , it makes and old man lusty , The Young to brawl , and the Drawers call , before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves to whittle , Then though twelve a Clock it be , Yet all the way go roaring , If the band of bills cry stand , Swear that you must a Who -- Such Gambols , such tricks , such fegaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaries : Drink wine till the Welkin roars , And cry out a pox of your Scores . In wine we call for bawdy Jigs , Catzoes , Rumbillows , whirligigs , Campo get in Huff Cap vain , The Devil in the places you wot were reign , Brave wine it thus tickles our Heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels , Our Moon-man & his powder-beef mad crew Thus caper thro' the liquour sweet turnip drew , Round about over tables and joint stools let's dance with naked Rapiers , Cut the Fiddlestrings , and then like fools kick out the fum fum scrapers , There is no found that cares can wound , as lids of wine-pots clinking , There's no such sport , when all amort , men cry lets fallen to drinking ; Oh 'tis nappy Geer , Would each belly was filled here , Herrings pickled must be tickled , Down to draw the liquour , The salt Sammon and fat Gammon , Makes our wine drink quicker , Our Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , With powder-beef turnip and carret , If he does so , why should not you , Drink until the Sky looks blue . Hey for a turn thus above Ground , Oh my Noddle too heavy does weigh , Metheglin , Perry , Sider , nor strong ale , Are half so heavy , be they never so stale : Wine in our Guts can never rumble , Down now and then tho' it make us tumble ; Yet scrambling up a Drunkard feels no pain , but cries Sirrah boy , tother pottle again , We can drink no more unless we have full pipes of Trinnidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains more warm than does freezado . It makes us sing and cry heigh ding , And laugh when Pipes lie broken , For which to pay at going away , we scorn a Mustard token ; Never curse the saucy Score , Outswear the bar you'll pay no more ; in these days he is no Gallant That cannot puff and swagger , though he dare not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his dagger : If then you do love my Hosts Clarret , Fat powder-beef , turnip and carret , Come again and again , And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 