A pleasant History of a Gentleman in Thracia , which had foure Sons , and three of them none of his own ; showing how miraculously the true heir came to enjoy his Inheritance . To the tune of , Chevy Chase . IN searching ancient Chronicles , it was my chance to find A story worth the writing out , in my conceit and mind ; It is and admonition good , that Children ought to have , With reverence for to think upon their Parents laid in grave . In Thracia liv'd a Gentleman , of Noble Progeny , Who rul'd his household with great fame and true integrity ; This Gentleman did take to wife , a neat and gallant Dame , Whose outward show and beauty bright did many hearts inflame . The luster that came from her looks , her carriage and her grace , Like beauteous Cynthia did outshine each Lady in that place ; And being puffed up in pride , with ease and jollity , Her Husband could not her content , she other men must try . Lasciviously long time she liv'd , yet boar it cunningly , For she had those that watched so well , that he could nought espy ; With bribes and gifts she so bewitched the hearts of some were near , That they conceal'd her wickedness , and kept it from her deer . Thus spending of her time away in extreme wantonness , Her private friends when she did please , unto her had access ; But the all seeing Eye of heaven , such sins will not conceal , And by some means at last will he the truth of all reveal . Upon a time soar sick she fell , yea to the very death , And her Physician told her plain , she must resign her breath ; Divines did likewise visit her , and holy counsel gave , And bade her call upon the Lord , that He her soul might save . among the rest , she did desire they would her husband bring , I have a secret to reveal , ( she said ) My heart does sting ; Then he came posiing presently , unto her where she lay , And weeping , then he did desire , what she to him would say . She did entreat that all might void the room , and he would stay : Your pardon , husband , I beseech , ( unto him she did say ; ) For I have wrong'd your marriage bed , and played the wanton wife , To you the truth I will reveal , ere I depart this life . FOure hopeful sons you think you have , to me it best is known , And three of them are none of yours , of foure but one's your own ; And by your self on me begotten , which hath so wanton been , These dying tears forgiveness beg , let mercy then be seen . This struck her husband in a dump , his heart was almost dead , But rouzing of his spirits up , these words to her he said ; I do forgive thee with my heart , so thou the truth wilt tell , Which of the foure is my own son , and all things shall be well . O pardon me , my husband deer , unto him she did say , They are my children every one , and so she went away . Away he goes with heavy heart , his griefs he did conceal , And like a wise and prudent man , to none did it reveal . Not knowing which to be his own , each of his love did share , And to be train'd in virtues paths , of them he had a care ; In learning great and gentle grace , they were brought up and taught , Such deer affection in the hearts of Parents God hath wrought . They now were grown to men's estates , and liv'd most gallantly ; Each had his horse , his hawk , his hound and did their manhood try ; The ancient man did joy thereat , but yet he did not know , Which was his son among the foure that bred in him much woe . At length his glass of life was run , the Fates do so decree , For poor and rich they all must die , and death will take no fee ; Unto some Judges he did send , and Counsel that were grave , Who presently to him did come , to know what he would have . They coming then to his beds side , unto them he did say , I know you all to be my friends , most faithful every way ; And now before I leave the world , I beg this at your hands , To have a care which of my sons shall have my goods and lands . And to them all he did relate what things his wife had done ; There is but one among the foure that is my native son ; And to your judgement I commit , when I am laid in grave , Which is my son , and which is fit my lands and goods to have . He dying , they in Council sat what best were to be done , For 'twas a task of great import , to judge which was his son : The brother's likewise were at strife , which should the living have ; When as the ancient man was dead , and buried in his grave . The Judges must decide the cause , and thus they did decree , The dead men body up to take , and tie it to a Tree ; A Bow each brother he must have , and eke and arrow take , To shoot at their dead father's corpse , as if he were a stake . And he whose Arrow nearest hit his heart as he did stand , They'd judge him for to be right heir , and fit to have the land : On this they all did straight agree , and to the field they went , Each had a man his shaft to bear , and Bow already bent . Now ( quoth the Judges ) try your skill upon your Father there , That we may quickly know who shall unto the Land be heir ; The eldest took his Bow in hand , and shaft where as he stood , Which pierc'd so deep the dead men breast that it did run with blood . The second brother then must shoot , who straight did take his aim , And with his Arrow made a wound , that blood came from the same : The third likewise must try his skill , the matter to decide , Whose shaft did make a wound most deep into the dead men side . Unto the fourth and youngest then , a Bow and shaft was brought ; Who said , Dee' think that ere my heart could harbour such a thought , To shoot at my deer Father's heart , although that he be dead , For all the Kingdoms in the world that far and wide are spread ? And turning of him round about , the tears ran down amain , He flung his Bow upon the ground , and broke his shaft in twaine : The Judges seeing his remorse , they then concluded all , He was the right , the other three , they were unnatural . And so he straight possessed the Lands , being made the heir of all , And heaven by nature in this kind , unto his heart did call ; His brother's they did envy him , but yet he need not care , And of his wealth in portions large , unto them he did share . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . A pleasant History of a Gentleman in Thracia , which had foure Sons , and three of them none of his own ; showing how miraculously the true heir came to enjoy his Inheritance . To the tune of , Chevy Chase . IN searching ancient Chronicles , it was my chance to find A story worth the writing out , in my conceit and mind ; It is and admonition good , that Children ought to have , With reverence for to think upon their Parents laid in grave . In Thracia liv'd a Gentleman , of Noble Progeny , Who rul'd his household with great fame and true integrity ; This Gentleman did take to wife , a neat and gallant Dame , Whose outward show and beauty bright did many hearts inflame . The luster that came from her looks , her carriage and her grace , Like beauteous Cynthia did outshine each Lady in that place ; And being puffed up in pride , with ease and jollity , Her Husband could not her content , she other men must try . Lasciviously long time she liv'd , yet boar it cunningly , For she had those that watched so well , that he could nought espy ; With bribes and gifts she so bewitched the hearts of some were near , That they conceal'd her wickedness , and kept it from her deer . Thus spending of her time away in extreme wantonness , Her private friends when she did please , unto her had access ; But the all seeing Eye of heaven , such sins will not conceal , And by some means at last will he the truth of all reveal . Upon a time soar sick she fell , yea to the very death , And her Physician told her plain , she must resign her breath ; Divines did likewise visit her , and holy counsel gave , And bade her call upon the Lord , that He her soul might save . among the rest , she did desire they would her husband bring , I have a secret to reveal , ( she said ) My heart does sting ; Then he came posiing presently , unto her where she lay , And weeping , then he did desire , what she to him would say . She did entreat that all might void the room , and he would stay : Your pardon , husband , I beseech , ( unto him she did say ; ) For I have wrong'd your marriage bed , and played the wanton wife , To you the truth I will reveal , ere I depart this life . FOure hopeful sons you think you have , to me it best is known , And three of them are none of yours , of foure but one's your own ; And by your self on me begotten , which hath so wanton been , These dying tears forgiveness beg , let mercy then be seen . This struck her husband in a dump , his heart was almost dead , But rouzing of his spirits up , these words to her he said ; I do forgive thee with my heart , so thou the truth wilt tell , Which of the foure is my own son , and all things shall be well . O pardon me , my husband deer , unto him she did say , They are my children every one , and so she went away . Away he goes with heavy heart , his griefs he did conceal , And like a wise and prudent man , to none did it reveal . Not knowing which to be his own , each of his love did share , And to be train'd in virtues paths , of them he had a care ; In learning great and gentle grace , they were brought up and taught , Such deer affection in the hearts of Parents God hath wrought . They now were grown to men's estates , and liv'd most gallantly ; Each had his horse , his hawk , his hound and did their manhood try ; The ancient man did joy thereat , but yet he did not know , Which was his son among the foure that bred in him much woe . At length his glass of life was run , the Fates do so decree , For poor and rich they all must die , and death will take no fee ; Unto some Judges he did send , and Counsel that were grave , Who presently to him did come , to know what he would have . They coming then to his beds side , unto them he did say , I know you all to be my friends , most faithful every way ; And now before I leave the world , I beg this at your hands , To have a care which of my sons shall have my goods and lands . And to them all he did relate what things his wife had done ; There is but one among the foure that is my native son ; And to your judgement I commit , when I am laid in grave , Which is my son , and which is fit my lands and goods to have . He dying , they in Council sat what best were to be done , For 'twas a task of great import , to judge which was his son : The brother's likewise were at strife , which should the living have ; When as the ancient man was dead , and buried in his grave . The Judges must decide the cause , and thus they did decree , The dead men body up to take , and tie it to a Tree ; A Bow each brother he must have , and eke and arrow take , To shoot at their dead father's corpse , as if he were a stake . And he whose Arrow nearest hit his heart as he did stand , They'd judge him for to be right heir , and fit to have the land : On this they all did straight agree , and to the field they went , Each had a man his shaft to bear , and Bow already bent . Now ( quoth the Judges ) try your skill upon your Father there , That we may quickly know who shall unto the Land be heir ; The eldest took his Bow in hand , and shaft where as he stood , Which pierc'd so deep the dead men breast that it did run with blood . The second brother then must shoot , who straight did take his aim , And with his Arrow made a wound , that blood came from the same : The third likewise must try his skill , the matter to decide , Whose shaft did make a wound most deep into the dead men side . Unto the fourth and youngest then , a Bow and shaft was brought ; Who said , Dee' think that ere my heart could harbour such a thought , To shoot at my deer Father's heart , although that he be dead , For all the Kingdoms in the world that far and wide are spread ? And turning of him round about , the tears ran down amain , He flung his Bow upon the ground , and broke his shaft in twaine : The Judges seeing his remorse , they then concluded all , He was the right , the other three , they were unnatural . And so he straight possessed the Lands , being made the heir of all , And heaven by nature in this kind , unto his heart did call ; His brother's they did envy him , but yet he need not care , And of his wealth in portions large , unto them he did share . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . 