A pleasant new Northern Song . called the two Yorkshire Lovers , To a pleasant new Court tune , Or , the tune of Willy . WHen Willy once he stayed , To fetch home a lamb that strayed , under a hill side , a bonny Lass he spied , Of whom he was well apaid . Her cheeks like Cherries growing . Her lips like Rosebuds blowing , her eyes black and clear , as the Sloe upon the breere , Or the worm in the hedge lies glowing Her waste so small and slender , Her skin so soft and tender , he sigh'd and he said , that she was a fair Maid , And his love to her he'd render . The wind did seem to play , With her tresses as she lay , betwixt hope and fear , He was in despair , To give her the time of the day . Yet resolv'd to court this Minion , There stepped in a new opinion : this timorous Clown , thought Phaebe had come down , To speak with her loved Endimion . His errand quite forgotten , He lean'd to a tree was rotten , he swore by the Mass , there was never such a Lass , His heart with a shaft was shotten . Then boldly he stepped unto her , His eyes shot affection through her , he cast away fea [ r ] es , and pricking up his ears , Thus Willy began to woo her . Good day ( quoth he ) my honey , Thou dearer to me than money , I'll loose my little Lamb , And gladly give the Dam , To lig with a Lass so bonny . Now list to what I'll tell thee , There's none in shape does excel thee , so thou wilt wed me , none happier than thee ; Nor better day ere befell me . Of Nuts I'll give thee plenty , And read side Apples twenty , my butter I'll lose , to make thee summer Cheese , And Cream to make Egg pies dainty . My Lambs new gowns shall bear thee , No daglockes shall ere come near thee , the Poultry of the Town shall cackle without Down , Ere I'll want a soft bed to cheer thee . My Bagpipes mirth shall make thee , Each morn with a Song I'll wake thee at night I'll not fail , to tell a merry tale , And make thy sad thoughts forsake thee . The second part . To the same tune . WHite Lilies shall pave the Closes , Each brier shall blush with Roses , the grass green and sweet , shall kiss thy tender feet . And the Meadows shall yield thee posies . With shady bowers set over thee , With thousand contents I'll store thee , while by some clear brook , with my little Dog and hook , I'll bring my fine Ewes before thee . While thus he was close set at her , ( Quoth she ) I suspect the matter , for and hours sport , like the false alluring Court , The Country has learned to flatter . Therefore leave off thy wooing , I love not such short doing , and come unto the matter , I love not for to flatter , True affection hates long suing . But if your love will prove steady , Till Hymen had made him ready , then surfeit all night , in a captive Maids delight , Which yet but air hath fed you . Quoth he I love none above thee , For chastity I prove thee , as constant I'll prove , as the Mate unto the Dove , Nay , though thou wertenberg dead , I'll love thee And all contents I'll give thee , So that thou wilt live with me : my life and all I'll lose , ere I my Love abuse , And all my rich kith unto me . As Willy thus was talking , The Shepherd's eyes were walking , each leg and each limb , so tricked so trim , She thought it no time of balking . Her heart with love was taken , God Cupid did her awaken , and cast a cheerful eye , upon him by and by , To show he was not forsaken . His lips to hers he laid , She never a word gainsaid : thus joining their hands , they tied the Nuptial bans , Which never till death decai'd . Such happy joy God send me , When I to wed intend me , and to each faithful Lover : where they be one or other , I heartily commend thee . FINIS . London printed for John Wright . A pleasant new Northern Song . called the two Yorkshire Lovers , To a pleasant new Court tune , Or , the tune of Willy . WHen Willy once he stayed , To fetch home a lamb that strayed , under a hill side , a bonny Lass he spied , Of whom he was well apaid . Her cheeks like Cherries growing . Her lips like Rosebuds blowing , her eyes black and clear , as the Sloe upon the breere , Or the worm in the hedge lies glowing Her waste so small and slender , Her skin so soft and tender , he sigh'd and he said , that she was a fair Maid , And his love to her he'd render . The wind did seem to play , With her tresses as she lay , betwixt hope and fear , He was in despair , To give her the time of the day . Yet resolv'd to court this Minion , There stepped in a new opinion : this timorous Clown , thought Phaebe had come down , To speak with her loved Endimion . His errand quite forgotten , He lean'd to a tree was rotten , he swore by the Mass , there was never such a Lass , His heart with a shaft was shotten . Then boldly he stepped unto her , His eyes shot affection through her , he cast away fea [ r ] es , and pricking up his ears , Thus Willy began to woo her . Good day ( quoth he ) my honey , Thou dearer to me than money , I'll loose my little Lamb , And gladly give the Dam , To lig with a Lass so bonny . Now list to what I'll tell thee , There's none in shape does excel thee , so thou wilt wed me , none happier than thee ; Nor better day ere befell me . Of Nuts I'll give thee plenty , And read side Apples twenty , my butter I'll lose , to make thee summer Cheese , And Cream to make Egg pies dainty . My Lambs new gowns shall bear thee , No daglockes shall ere come near thee , the Poultry of the Town shall cackle without Down , Ere I'll want a soft bed to cheer thee . My Bagpipes mirth shall make thee , Each morn with a Song I'll wake thee at night I'll not fail , to tell a merry tale , And make thy sad thoughts forsake thee . The second part . To the same tune . WHite Lilies shall pave the Closes , Each brier shall blush with Roses , the grass green and sweet , shall kiss thy tender feet . And the Meadows shall yield thee posies . With shady bowers set over thee , With thousand contents I'll store thee , while by some clear brook , with my little Dog and hook , I'll bring my fine Ewes before thee . While thus he was close set at her , ( Quoth she ) I suspect the matter , for and hours sport , like the false alluring Court , The Country has learned to flatter . Therefore leave off thy wooing , I love not such short doing , and come unto the matter , I love not for to flatter , True affection hates long suing . But if your love will prove steady , Till Hymen had made him ready , then surfeit all night , in a captive Maids delight , Which yet but air hath fed you . Quoth he I love none above thee , For chastity I prove thee , as constant I'll prove , as the Mate unto the Dove , Nay , though thou wertenberg dead , I'll love thee And all contents I'll give thee , So that thou wilt live with me : my life and all I'll lose , ere I my Love abuse , And all my rich kith unto me . As Willy thus was talking , The Shepherd's eyes were walking , each leg and each limb , so tricked so trim , She thought it no time of balking . Her heart with love was taken , God Cupid did her awaken , and cast a cheerful eye , upon him by and by , To show he was not forsaken . His lips to hers he laid , She never a word gainsaid : thus joining their hands , they tied the Nuptial bans , Which never till death decai'd . Such happy joy God send me , When I to wed intend me , and to each faithful Lover : where they be one or other , I heartily commend thee . FINIS . London printed for John Wright . 