A new Medley , OR , A Mess of Altogether . To the tune of Tarltons Medley STrange news is come from Hounslo heath , That all false Thieves are put to death , Nell Collins has a stinking breath , I herd Tom Phillips say : The Cobbler and the Broom-mans wife , Have made a match , I'll lay my life , Come drink a cup and end all strife , sweet Kester . They say that Turnbull-street is clean Tranform'd , there scant is left a Quean , O neighbour Ralph what do you mean , to pawn your shirt for Ale : This drinking healths makes many sick , Nan Williams has devis'd a trick , To gull her husband , silly Dicke , the Miller . Peas-porridge makes our Mall break wind , She makes us think that she is kind , Because she speaks to us behind , as freely as before : The Butler is gone out oth' way , Cause no man shall drink here today , His Master bids him do't they say , on purpose . Will Cook and Sisse the Dairy maid , Do fit together in the shade , Stealing would be and excellent trade , and it not for this hanging : The Hangman he leaves work by noon , Sweet heart go not away so soon , I think there is a man i'th Moon , Stargazer . There is more clothes in Birchin-lane I think , than would load Charles his Wain , King Edward lov'd a goldsmiths Jane , the best ware in the shop : The Tanner made the King a Feast , A Mastiff dog's a valiant Beast , He oft thinks most that says the least , old Hobson . Dido was a Carthage Queen , As I walked in a Meadow green , The fairest Lass that ere was seen , that was the flower of Ken Look to your forehead honest friend , The longest day must have and end , Good fortune unto thee , God send , young Bridegroom . When as King Henry rul'd this Land , All things did in good order stand , Then scarce a Lawyer had a hand , to take a double Fee : Eel Pies are dainty meat in Lent , I prithee Roger be content , Good Landlords do not raise your rend so highly . The Courtier scorns the Country Clown , There dwells a widow in our Town , Pray mother lend me half a Crown to buy a wedding Ring : Tom Taylor did not use me well , To steal two yards out of one Ell , My Belly does begin to swell , I'me pepper'd . The second part , To the same tune . AT Battersey good Turnips grow , There goes three Milkmaids on a row , Me thinks it is a seemly show to see three honest Millers : The Seaman and the Soldier bold , Venture their lives for fame and gold , A Slut , a Strumpet , and a Scold , three good wives . King Edgar hated drunkenness , And Julius Caesar loath'd excess , I prithee tell me pretty Besse , who lay with thee last nigh AEneas was a perjur'd Prince , Too many have done like him since , Sweetheart I'll give thee eighteene pence to kiss thee . To think how things are chang'd of late , That Charitie's quite out of date , Would force a silent man to prate , o the merry days of old , When Knights and Squires wore good broadcloth , The poor had Beef as well as broth , O do not make us pay for froth good Tapster . Our Ladies now are like to Apes , Their minds do altar like their shapes , Fie Mistress , fie , your placket gapes , cover your flesh for shame : The Pander quarrels with the Whore , And says hee'l be their man no more , The shot is paid , wipe off the score kind Hostis . A Usurer and a Broker be Both Brother's of a company , The Devil sure must make them free when they have serv'd their time : In old time Bakers us'd to be , Promoted to the Pillory , Now none , unless for Perjury , peep thorough . The Carrier brings up every week Brave Lasses , which the Bawds do seek , What Welchman will not were a Leek upon Saint Davids day ? Saint George lies dead at Coventrey , O now for such a man as he , Our Captains dy'd i'th I'll of Ree , ill tidings . Queen Elinor built Charing-crosse , Which now is covered over with Moss , The Spanyards mourn for their late loss , I mean the rich Plate Flee The Dutchmen grieve , and so do we , For th' death of young Prince Henry , Alas ! there is no remedy , but patience . My merry Medley here I end , Which to young men and maids I send , To make them mirth , the same was pend , although it seem nonsense : Yet is there such variety Of sense for each capacity , That old and young may pleased be to learn it . London printed for H. Gosson . Finis . M.P. A new Medley , OR , A Mess of Altogether . To the tune of Tarltons Medley STrange news is come from Hounslo heath , That all false Thieves are put to death , Nell Collins has a stinking breath , I herd Tom Phillips say : The Cobbler and the Broom-mans wife , Have made a match , I'll lay my life , Come drink a cup and end all strife , sweet Kester . They say that Turnbull-street is clean Tranform'd , there scant is left a Quean , O neighbour Ralph what do you mean , to pawn your shirt for Ale : This drinking healths makes many sick , Nan Williams has devis'd a trick , To gull her husband , silly Dicke , the Miller . Peas-porridge makes our Mall break wind , She makes us think that she is kind , Because she speaks to us behind , as freely as before : The Butler is gone out oth' way , Cause no man shall drink here today , His Master bids him do't they say , on purpose . Will Cook and Sisse the Dairy maid , Do fit together in the shade , Stealing would be and excellent trade , and it not for this hanging : The Hangman he leaves work by noon , Sweet heart go not away so soon , I think there is a man i'th Moon , Stargazer . There is more clothes in Birchin-lane I think , than would load Charles his Wain , King Edward lov'd a goldsmiths Jane , the best ware in the shop : The Tanner made the King a Feast , A Mastiff dog's a valiant Beast , He oft thinks most that says the least , old Hobson . Dido was a Carthage Queen , As I walked in a Meadow green , The fairest Lass that ere was seen , that was the flower of Ken Look to your forehead honest friend , The longest day must have and end , Good fortune unto thee , God send , young Bridegroom . When as King Henry rul'd this Land , All things did in good order stand , Then scarce a Lawyer had a hand , to take a double Fee : Eel Pies are dainty meat in Lent , I prithee Roger be content , Good Landlords do not raise your rend so highly . The Courtier scorns the Country Clown , There dwells a widow in our Town , Pray mother lend me half a Crown to buy a wedding Ring : Tom Taylor did not use me well , To steal two yards out of one Ell , My Belly does begin to swell , I'me pepper'd . The second part , To the same tune . AT Battersey good Turnips grow , There goes three Milkmaids on a row , Me thinks it is a seemly show to see three honest Millers : The Seaman and the Soldier bold , Venture their lives for fame and gold , A Slut , a Strumpet , and a Scold , three good wives . King Edgar hated drunkenness , And Julius Caesar loath'd excess , I prithee tell me pretty Besse , who lay with thee last nigh AEneas was a perjur'd Prince , Too many have done like him since , Sweetheart I'll give thee eighteene pence to kiss thee . To think how things are chang'd of late , That Charitie's quite out of date , Would force a silent man to prate , o the merry days of old , When Knights and Squires wore good broadcloth , The poor had Beef as well as broth , O do not make us pay for froth good Tapster . Our Ladies now are like to Apes , Their minds do altar like their shapes , Fie Mistress , fie , your placket gapes , cover your flesh for shame : The Pander quarrels with the Whore , And says hee'l be their man no more , The shot is paid , wipe off the score kind Hostis . A Usurer and a Broker be Both Brother's of a company , The Devil sure must make them free when they have serv'd their time : In old time Bakers us'd to be , Promoted to the Pillory , Now none , unless for Perjury , peep thorough . The Carrier brings up every week Brave Lasses , which the Bawds do seek , What Welchman will not were a Leek upon Saint Davids day ? Saint George lies dead at Coventrey , O now for such a man as he , Our Captains dy'd i'th I'll of Ree , ill tidings . Queen Elinor built Charing-crosse , Which now is covered over with Moss , The Spanyards mourn for their late loss , I mean the rich Plate Flee The Dutchmen grieve , and so do we , For th' death of young Prince Henry , Alas ! there is no remedy , but patience . My merry Medley here I end , Which to young men and maids I send , To make them mirth , the same was pend , although it seem nonsense : Yet is there such variety Of sense for each capacity , That old and young may pleased be to learn it . London printed for H. Gosson . Finis . M.P. 