A New Ditty : Of a Lover , tossed hither and th [ i ] there , That cannot speak his mind when they are together . To the Tune of , Hide Park . ALas I am in love , and cannot speak it , My mind I dare not move , nor never can break it , She does so far excel all and each other , My mind I cannot tell , when we are together . But I'll take heart to me , I will reveal it , I'll try her constancy , I'll not conceal it , But alas , but alas I do consider , I cannot break my mind , When etc Her loving looks and smiles , hath so bewitch't me , Her virtue me beguiles , she hath enriched me , Shee's so fair , shee's so rare , her due to give her , Makes me I cannot speak , when etc Our oft frequented jests , are turn'd to earnest , In 'th night I cannot rest , for loves severeness , It hath turn'd , it hath burn'd , my heart for ever , Alas I cannot speak , when etc Like to the foolish Flies , too long I have dallied With her bright glistering eyes , my Fort she [ ' ] th sallied , That I have scorched my wings , and heart for ever , Alas etc Her presence is my joy , her want my sadness , When I her face enjoy , I am turn'd to gladness , And wish our company may last for ever but yet I etc The second part , to the same Tune . I Think she loves me well , but I never broke it , I am sure I love her well , though I never spoke it , And my love to her shall prove , constant forever , Although etc Suppose she loves me not , or loves another , Too much yet care I not , still I will love her , And do vow to be true , and faithful for ever , Although etc I will do the best I can , I'll strive to please her , I will do any thing , whereby to ease her . Over Sea I will flee , swim like Leander , Before I'll lose her love , through the world I'll wander . And I'll do much more too , if shee'le command it , If't be to loose my life , I'll not gain stand it , But alas , but alas , I do consider , I cannot speak my mind when etc The more I strive to hide , the more it flameth , These pains I cannot bide , my wits it lameth . And if it hidden be , will burn for ever , Unless I speak my mind , when etc I think it good I tried , and went to prove her , And lay all fear aside , stoutly to move her , But when I am going to speak , my tongue does quiver , And will not break my mind , when we are together . FINIS . Peter Lowberry . Printed at London for Edward Wright dwelling near Christs Church gate . A New Ditty : Of a Lover , tossed hither and th [ i ] there , That cannot speak his mind when they are together . To the Tune of , Hide Park . ALas I am in love , and cannot speak it , My mind I dare not move , nor never can break it , She does so far excel all and each other , My mind I cannot tell , when we are together . But I'll take heart to me , I will reveal it , I'll try her constancy , I'll not conceal it , But alas , but alas I do consider , I cannot break my mind , When etc Her loving looks and smiles , hath so bewitch't me , Her virtue me beguiles , she hath enriched me , Shee's so fair , shee's so rare , her due to give her , Makes me I cannot speak , when etc Our oft frequented jests , are turn'd to earnest , In 'th night I cannot rest , for loves severeness , It hath turn'd , it hath burn'd , my heart for ever , Alas I cannot speak , when etc Like to the foolish Flies , too long I have dallied With her bright glistering eyes , my Fort she [ ' ] th sallied , That I have scorched my wings , and heart for ever , Alas etc Her presence is my joy , her want my sadness , When I her face enjoy , I am turn'd to gladness , And wish our company may last for ever but yet I etc The second part , to the same Tune . I Think she loves me well , but I never broke it , I am sure I love her well , though I never spoke it , And my love to her shall prove , constant forever , Although etc Suppose she loves me not , or loves another , Too much yet care I not , still I will love her , And do vow to be true , and faithful for ever , Although etc I will do the best I can , I'll strive to please her , I will do any thing , whereby to ease her . Over Sea I will flee , swim like Leander , Before I'll lose her love , through the world I'll wander . And I'll do much more too , if shee'le command it , If't be to loose my life , I'll not gain stand it , But alas , but alas , I do consider , I cannot speak my mind when etc The more I strive to hide , the more it flameth , These pains I cannot bide , my wits it lameth . And if it hidden be , will burn for ever , Unless I speak my mind , when etc I think it good I tried , and went to prove her , And lay all fear aside , stoutly to move her , But when I am going to speak , my tongue does quiver , And will not break my mind , when we are together . FINIS . Peter Lowberry . Printed at London for Edward Wright dwelling near Christs Church gate . 