The newfound Northern Deedle : OR , Mirth and wit according to the times , Fancies to fit , are in these following rhymes . To the tune of This is my Grannams deedle . MY mother's a good old woman , Beloved of Knights and Yeomen , That never did hurt to no man , Her wits together will summon : to call for the newfound deedle , to call for my Grannams deedle , to call for the Dadyes deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . And also my sister Nanny , So beautiful and canny , Content will give to any , And please them though never so many : in dancing the new found deedle . in dancing my Grannams deedle , in dancing the Dadyes deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . My brother a swaggering gallant , Knows Gilderland , Brabbant , Zeland , And lately is comne out of Holland , To England to spend his talan and calls for the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle , my Mammies and Dadyes deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The Courtiers wives so dainty , Of gold which have great plenty : Will drink , carouse , and be merry , And sack it in pleasant Sherry . and calls for the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The Lady which takes upon her , The style of state and honour , Will ride in Majestic manner , With gallants attending on her , and calls for the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The tradesmen's wives of the city , So handsome , neat , and pretty , So understanding , witty , Delight in no other ditty : but call for the new found deedle come play us my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The country lasses so bonny , With breathes as sweet as honey , For cost they care not any , But freely will spend their money , and calls for the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The second part , To the same tune . THe young men so neatly attired , Whose braveries are admired , When any brave music they hear it , Most heartily do desire it , this merry conceit of thee deedle , to hear the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle the new found Northern deedle , The musical skilled Musician , However be his condition : To play it he hath and ambition , Because unto him they petition : to play the new found deedle , to play them my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle this merry conceit of thee deedle : The Carpenter , Mason , and Glasier , The bonny blacksmith , the Brazier , And Barber that trims with a razor , Will merry be when they have leisure : and call for the new found deedle to play them my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle this merry conceit of thee deedle . The Tanner and merry Shoemaker , The Maltman , the Miller , and Baker , And Brewer with them is partaker , If boldly that truth may be speaker : to call for the new found deedle and call for my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle this merry conceit of thee deedle . The lusty and well limbed Sailor , The nimble and spruce neat Taylor , Agreed like good fellows that present Together they would be pleasant , and have the new found deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle , the new found Northern deedle , oh this is my Grannams deedle . To see these mad lads come reeling , Hearing , seeing , and feeling , With pleasing smelling and tasting , Crying out of Spendthrifts wasting , that spending , desires the deedle , the new found Northern deedle , my good old Grannams deedle the Mammy and Daddies deedle . Blind Fortune following after , Moved a hearty laughter , To see polt-footed Vulcan , Tossing off many a full can , and singing the new found deedle , etc Mercury , Mars , and Venus , So witty and engenious , Brought in the young god Cupid To jeer at poor mortals so stupid , for learning the new found deedle , oh this my Grannams deedle , the Mammy and Daddies deedle , a merry conceited deedle . FINIS . R. Guy . Printed at London for Though : Lambert . The newfound Northern Deedle : OR , Mirth and wit according to the times , Fancies to fit , are in these following rhymes . To the tune of This is my Grannams deedle . MY mother's a good old woman , Beloved of Knights and Yeomen , That never did hurt to no man , Her wits together will summon : to call for the newfound deedle , to call for my Grannams deedle , to call for the Dadyes deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . And also my sister Nanny , So beautiful and canny , Content will give to any , And please them though never so many : in dancing the new found deedle . in dancing my Grannams deedle , in dancing the Dadyes deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . My brother a swaggering gallant , Knows Gilderland , Brabbant , Zeland , And lately is comne out of Holland , To England to spend his talan and calls for the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle , my Mammies and Dadyes deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The Courtiers wives so dainty , Of gold which have great plenty : Will drink , carouse , and be merry , And sack it in pleasant Sherry . and calls for the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The Lady which takes upon her , The style of state and honour , Will ride in Majestic manner , With gallants attending on her , and calls for the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The tradesmen's wives of the city , So handsome , neat , and pretty , So understanding , witty , Delight in no other ditty : but call for the new found deedle come play us my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The country lasses so bonny , With breathes as sweet as honey , For cost they care not any , But freely will spend their money , and calls for the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle . The second part , To the same tune . THe young men so neatly attired , Whose braveries are admired , When any brave music they hear it , Most heartily do desire it , this merry conceit of thee deedle , to hear the new found deedle , come play us my Grannams deedle the new found Northern deedle , The musical skilled Musician , However be his condition : To play it he hath and ambition , Because unto him they petition : to play the new found deedle , to play them my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle this merry conceit of thee deedle : The Carpenter , Mason , and Glasier , The bonny blacksmith , the Brazier , And Barber that trims with a razor , Will merry be when they have leisure : and call for the new found deedle to play them my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle this merry conceit of thee deedle . The Tanner and merry Shoemaker , The Maltman , the Miller , and Baker , And Brewer with them is partaker , If boldly that truth may be speaker : to call for the new found deedle and call for my Grannams deedle , the new found Northern deedle this merry conceit of thee deedle . The lusty and well limbed Sailor , The nimble and spruce neat Taylor , Agreed like good fellows that present Together they would be pleasant , and have the new found deedle , this merry conceit of thee deedle , the new found Northern deedle , oh this is my Grannams deedle . To see these mad lads come reeling , Hearing , seeing , and feeling , With pleasing smelling and tasting , Crying out of Spendthrifts wasting , that spending , desires the deedle , the new found Northern deedle , my good old Grannams deedle the Mammy and Daddies deedle . Blind Fortune following after , Moved a hearty laughter , To see polt-footed Vulcan , Tossing off many a full can , and singing the new found deedle , etc Mercury , Mars , and Venus , So witty and engenious , Brought in the young god Cupid To jeer at poor mortals so stupid , for learning the new found deedle , oh this my Grannams deedle , the Mammy and Daddies deedle , a merry conceited deedle . FINIS . R. Guy . Printed at London for Though : Lambert . 