A peerless Paragon , OR , Few so chaste , so beauteous or so fair , for with my love I think none can compare . To the tune of the mother beguiled the daughter . IN times of yore , sure men did dote , and beauty never knew : Else women were not of that note , as daily come to view . For read of all the faces then that did most brightly shine , Be judg'd by all true judging men , they were not like to mine . King Pryam loved Hecuba , and thought her wondrous fair , But had he seen mine , I dare say there had been no compare . Stout Hector held Andromicha a stately beauteous Queen , But shes , no Troylus Cressida , yet fair as ere was seen : Nay all the faces Jupiter did like and fancy most , Are to her substance shadows mere of whom I make my boas Surely you wonder what she is , whose beauty I proclaim , I'll tell you truly , and not miss though she be without name . My love she is the Nonpareil of all that ere was seen , And had not Venus come i'th way she had been beauty's Queen : Her comely feature , lovely looks , I will describe at large , God Cupid puts her in his books , and of this Jem takes charge . The Grecian Helen was a More , compar'd with my deer Saint , The fair fac'd Hyren's beauty poor , and yet she does not paint , Andromeda whom Perseus lov'd , was blacker then the night , Her lineaments so well approv'd in praise of them isle write . Queen Vesta for her chastity with her may not compare , Nor Lucrece for her honesty , shee's like the Phoenix rare : A Summers day I could commend her parts were't never so long , But yet her parts so far extend , I fear to do her wrong . The second part , To the same tune . BUt yet my tongue cannot refrain to set her praises forth ; Then list , and isle describe her plain and show you her true worth : Her hair not like the golden wire but black as any Crow ; Her beetle brows , all men admire , her forehead wondrous low . Her squinting , staring , goggle eyes poor children do affright , Her nose is of the Sarazens size , o shee's a matchless wight . Her ears so hound like , that they fallen upon her shoulder bone , I know not truly how to call her , shee's such a worthy one . Her oven mouth , wide open stands , her teeth like rotten peas ; Her blabber lips my heart commands , her neck all bit with fleas : Her tawny dugs like two great hills , hang Sow-like to her waste , Her bodie's round as a wind mill , and yet I hold her chaste . Her belly tunlike to behold , no more shall be expressed , But if the truth were plainly told , I'm sure they are the bes Her brawny blind cheeks plump and round as any Horse of war , Her speckled thighs they are not found her knees like hogs heads are . Her legs are like the Elephants , the calf and small all one , Her ankles they together meet , and still knock bone to bone ; Her pretty foot not 'bove th' eighteenes so splaid as never was , And excellent usher for a man that walks the dewy grass . Her shoulders are so Camel-like , shee'd make and excellent Porter , I vow I never knew her like . if any man consort her . No shoulder of mutton like her hand for thickness , breadth , and fat , With a scurvy mange upon her wrest , o Jove how I love that . Thus have you herd my Love set forth and yet no flattery us'd , Your judgement , is she not of worth , let her not be abus'd . If any to her have a mind , he wrongs me many ways ; For as she's beauteous , so she's kind , and here conclude my praise . FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . A peerless Paragon , OR , Few so chaste , so beauteous or so fair , for with my love I think none can compare . To the tune of the mother beguiled the daughter . IN times of yore , sure men did dote , and beauty never knew : Else women were not of that note , as daily come to view . For read of all the faces then that did most brightly shine , Be judg'd by all true judging men , they were not like to mine . King Pryam loved Hecuba , and thought her wondrous fair , But had he seen mine , I dare say there had been no compare . Stout Hector held Andromicha a stately beauteous Queen , But shes , no Troylus Cressida , yet fair as ere was seen : Nay all the faces Jupiter did like and fancy most , Are to her substance shadows mere of whom I make my boas Surely you wonder what she is , whose beauty I proclaim , I'll tell you truly , and not miss though she be without name . My love she is the Nonpareil of all that ere was seen , And had not Venus come i'th way she had been beauty's Queen : Her comely feature , lovely looks , I will describe at large , God Cupid puts her in his books , and of this Jem takes charge . The Grecian Helen was a More , compar'd with my deer Saint , The fair fac'd Hyren's beauty poor , and yet she does not paint , Andromeda whom Perseus lov'd , was blacker then the night , Her lineaments so well approv'd in praise of them isle write . Queen Vesta for her chastity with her may not compare , Nor Lucrece for her honesty , shee's like the Phoenix rare : A Summers day I could commend her parts were't never so long , But yet her parts so far extend , I fear to do her wrong . The second part , To the same tune . BUt yet my tongue cannot refrain to set her praises forth ; Then list , and isle describe her plain and show you her true worth : Her hair not like the golden wire but black as any Crow ; Her beetle brows , all men admire , her forehead wondrous low . Her squinting , staring , goggle eyes poor children do affright , Her nose is of the Sarazens size , o shee's a matchless wight . Her ears so hound like , that they fallen upon her shoulder bone , I know not truly how to call her , shee's such a worthy one . Her oven mouth , wide open stands , her teeth like rotten peas ; Her blabber lips my heart commands , her neck all bit with fleas : Her tawny dugs like two great hills , hang Sow-like to her waste , Her bodie's round as a wind mill , and yet I hold her chaste . Her belly tunlike to behold , no more shall be expressed , But if the truth were plainly told , I'm sure they are the bes Her brawny blind cheeks plump and round as any Horse of war , Her speckled thighs they are not found her knees like hogs heads are . Her legs are like the Elephants , the calf and small all one , Her ankles they together meet , and still knock bone to bone ; Her pretty foot not 'bove th' eighteenes so splaid as never was , And excellent usher for a man that walks the dewy grass . Her shoulders are so Camel-like , shee'd make and excellent Porter , I vow I never knew her like . if any man consort her . No shoulder of mutton like her hand for thickness , breadth , and fat , With a scurvy mange upon her wrest , o Jove how I love that . Thus have you herd my Love set forth and yet no flattery us'd , Your judgement , is she not of worth , let her not be abus'd . If any to her have a mind , he wrongs me many ways ; For as she's beauteous , so she's kind , and here conclude my praise . FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . 