The pair of Northern Turtles : Whose love was firm till cruel Death , Depriv'd them both of life and breath . To a new Northern Tune , or , A health to Betty . Farewell , farewell , my dearest deer , all happiness wait on thee , For now alas my Turtle Dove , I am departing from thee , Nothing but death could change our love but now he that will sever , And separate those Turtle Doves , which long lay lulling together . Oft times with kind embraces sweet , thy arms have me enclosed , With kisses lulling me asleep , like Lovers kind disposed , Whose firm affections nought but death , at any time could sever , But now he'l part those Turtle Doves , which long lay lulling together . O could I stay but now with thee , Thou shouldst as constant prove me , As Thysbe to her Pyramus , so dearly doe I love thee , As not the love of any man , our loves at all should sever , Farewell my Love , we now no more , shall never lie lulling together . Could tears express my grief of heart which now I have conceiv'd , Whole rivers from mine eyes should flow , to tell thee how I'm grieved , That now I needs must part from thee , since death our loves do sever , And that alas we canot now , no more lie lulling together . But yet assure thy self my Dove , my Turtle and my dearest , Above all other men in the world , thy love to me was nearest , No fancy towards another Mate , our loves at all could sever So kindly did we always greet , while we lay lulling together . Which makes me sighs , and weep , & mourn to leave my only Sweating , But yet I hope in joy and bliss , we shall have better meeting ; Though in this world most cruel death , our love and joys do sever , Yet we in better joys I hope , in heaven shall live together . Therefore my Dear be not thou sad , nor too much discontented , Oh let not my departure hence , of thee be now lamented , Lest killing grief perplex thy mind ; for though our bodies sever , We shall in the Elysian fields , in joy and bliss meet together . So once more I bid thee adieu , now take thy latest kisses , For now pale death hath wounded me , farewell all earthly blisses , Farewell my dearest Turtle Dove , yet though our bodies sever , I hope in everlasting bliss , we shall shortly meet together . The second part of the Northern Turtle ; Wailing his unhappy fate , In being deprived of his sweet Mate . To the same Tune . AS I was walking all alone , I herd a man lamenting , Under a hollow bush he lay , full sor he did repent him : Alas , quoth he , my Love is gone , which causeth me to wander , Yet merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . Good Lord so soundly could I sleep , if that I lay lulling beyond her , All the night , till day were light , and the Sun did shine upon her , Yet early by day I would steal away , to keep my Love from slander , Yet merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . My Love and I will gallantly , so many years together , Her love was so inclined to me , that now I'm loath to leave her : But now this wicked world is such , that causeth me to wander , Yet will I never woman touch , till I lie lulling beyond her . Like to the Turtle I will mourn , in absence of my marrow , With bitter tears I cry and mourn , my joy is all but sorrow ; My comfort is to me much care , whil'st floods and woods I wander , Nay , merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . O Gods that make the Fowls that fly , to love their Mates so dearly , Yet for her sake they do refuse , to sing or chirp once cheerly ; What comfort can the world afford , what joys then can I render ? Nay merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . A pretty Dame was once my Love , till death made separation , And she to me did constant prove , without dissimulation ; Yet for her sake still will I weep , while I on earth do wander , Nay soundly will I never sleep , till I lie lulling beyond her . Though cruel death hath cut the breath of this my comely creature . To meet again we have true faith , our change is but a feature , Death may indeed in bondage keep , yet not our love can hinder , Then soundly , soundly shall I sleep , when as I lie lulling beyond her . My dearest Dear I come to thee , when't pleases death to send me , The grave I count my dearest home , o quickly then befriend me , She prov'd a Hero true to me , and I will be Leander , I never shall in quiet be , till I lie lulling beyond her . Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . FINIS . The pair of Northern Turtles : Whose love was firm till cruel Death , Depriv'd them both of life and breath . To a new Northern Tune , or , A health to Betty . Farewell , farewell , my dearest deer , all happiness wait on thee , For now alas my Turtle Dove , I am departing from thee , Nothing but death could change our love but now he that will sever , And separate those Turtle Doves , which long lay lulling together . Oft times with kind embraces sweet , thy arms have me enclosed , With kisses lulling me asleep , like Lovers kind disposed , Whose firm affections nought but death , at any time could sever , But now he'l part those Turtle Doves , which long lay lulling together . O could I stay but now with thee , Thou shouldst as constant prove me , As Thysbe to her Pyramus , so dearly doe I love thee , As not the love of any man , our loves at all should sever , Farewell my Love , we now no more , shall never lie lulling together . Could tears express my grief of heart which now I have conceiv'd , Whole rivers from mine eyes should flow , to tell thee how I'm grieved , That now I needs must part from thee , since death our loves do sever , And that alas we canot now , no more lie lulling together . But yet assure thy self my Dove , my Turtle and my dearest , Above all other men in the world , thy love to me was nearest , No fancy towards another Mate , our loves at all could sever So kindly did we always greet , while we lay lulling together . Which makes me sighs , and weep , & mourn to leave my only Sweating , But yet I hope in joy and bliss , we shall have better meeting ; Though in this world most cruel death , our love and joys do sever , Yet we in better joys I hope , in heaven shall live together . Therefore my Dear be not thou sad , nor too much discontented , Oh let not my departure hence , of thee be now lamented , Lest killing grief perplex thy mind ; for though our bodies sever , We shall in the Elysian fields , in joy and bliss meet together . So once more I bid thee adieu , now take thy latest kisses , For now pale death hath wounded me , farewell all earthly blisses , Farewell my dearest Turtle Dove , yet though our bodies sever , I hope in everlasting bliss , we shall shortly meet together . The second part of the Northern Turtle ; Wailing his unhappy fate , In being deprived of his sweet Mate . To the same Tune . AS I was walking all alone , I herd a man lamenting , Under a hollow bush he lay , full sor he did repent him : Alas , quoth he , my Love is gone , which causeth me to wander , Yet merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . Good Lord so soundly could I sleep , if that I lay lulling beyond her , All the night , till day were light , and the Sun did shine upon her , Yet early by day I would steal away , to keep my Love from slander , Yet merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . My Love and I will gallantly , so many years together , Her love was so inclined to me , that now I'm loath to leave her : But now this wicked world is such , that causeth me to wander , Yet will I never woman touch , till I lie lulling beyond her . Like to the Turtle I will mourn , in absence of my marrow , With bitter tears I cry and mourn , my joy is all but sorrow ; My comfort is to me much care , whil'st floods and woods I wander , Nay , merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . O Gods that make the Fowls that fly , to love their Mates so dearly , Yet for her sake they do refuse , to sing or chirp once cheerly ; What comfort can the world afford , what joys then can I render ? Nay merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . A pretty Dame was once my Love , till death made separation , And she to me did constant prove , without dissimulation ; Yet for her sake still will I weep , while I on earth do wander , Nay soundly will I never sleep , till I lie lulling beyond her . Though cruel death hath cut the breath of this my comely creature . To meet again we have true faith , our change is but a feature , Death may indeed in bondage keep , yet not our love can hinder , Then soundly , soundly shall I sleep , when as I lie lulling beyond her . My dearest Dear I come to thee , when't pleases death to send me , The grave I count my dearest home , o quickly then befriend me , She prov'd a Hero true to me , and I will be Leander , I never shall in quiet be , till I lie lulling beyond her . Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . FINIS . 