The Praise of a pretty Lass : OR , The Young men dissimulation : Else he would not disgrace A Maiden in such fashion , To the tune of , Bank's Game . YOung men and Maidens , to you I'll declare , I love my Love , and she loves me : Yet to no Goddess will I her compare , And yet she is pretty indifferent fair ; With oh my Love oh , there is none does know how I do love thee . She is not black , nor yet is she brown , I love my Love , and she loves me : But to her Portion , she hath thirty pound , Beside all this , she hath and old black Gown : Oh my love oh , there's none etc She is not great , nor yet very small , I love my Love , and she loves me : She's a yard and a half in the waste , that is all , Her flesh will preserve her hard bones from a fallen : Oh my Love oh , etc Her Hair is as black as is any Crow , I love my Love , and she loves me : Her good conditions there's no man does know , For she never came where as any did grow : Oh my Love oh , etc She hath a Nose in the midst of her face , I love my Love , and she loves me : And that stands bravely unto her own grace , I dare say a better ne're stood in that place : Oh my Love oh , there is none does know how I do love thee . Her Cheeks are fat , and fair for to see , I love my Love , and she loves me : They with her Eyes wondrous well do agree , She is a brave bonny Lass lovely and free : Oh my Love oh , there's none does know how I do love thee . She hath soft Lips , and found ones they are , I love my Love , and she loves me : You may kiss your fill , and need not to spare , For there is no danger of wearing third-bare : Oh my Love oh , etc She hath a Chin , and a chopping one , I love my Love , and she loves me : She might spare half on't for her that hath none ; But now her long Chin , I will let that alone : Oh my Love oh , there's none etc Her Neck does shine like a Chimney stock , I love my Love , and she loves me : When she her Casket of Pleasures unlock , I am caught as the Milier did catch his Mare Brock : Oh my Love oh , etc Her downy Breasts are swingers indeed , I love my Love , and she loves me : She may carry them on her shoulders for need , Oh she's a brave Lass we want more of her breed ; With oh my Love oh , there is none does know how I do love thee . The second Part , To the same tune . HEr shoulders I think , they are a whole yard square , I love my Love & she loves me : Sheel bear out her labour , you need not to fear , Give me such a Lass that is able to bear . O my love Oh , there is none does know How I do love thee . Likewise she hath good lusty strong Arms , I love my love and she loves me : They are able to defend her body from harms , To set forth her praises it me much concerns , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc Her hand like a shoulder of Mutton appesres , I love my Love and she loves me : But I would not have her fiie about mine ears , T'incounter my love there is no Lass that dares , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc She hath strong post legs her body to bear , I love my Love , and she loves me : She needs dread no falling , that she does not fear But if that you throw her , sheel show you a Bear Oh my love Oh , there is none etc Her fine dainty Foot is of the fourteens , I love my Love , and she loves me : And I can tell you that completely it seems , I must speak her praises , cause love is between's , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc If I should marry with one that were proud , I love my Love and she loves me : She would desire more then can well be aloud , From such haughty creatures my self I will shroud , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc And if I should marry with one that is fair , I love my Love , and she loves me : Perhaps Cornuting might fallen to my share , And so she might work me unto much dispare , Oh my love Oh , there is none does know how I do love thee . And if I should chance to wed one that is small , I love my Love , and she loves me : Then she is not able to do ought at all , And yet sheel be apt to scold and to brall , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc If I should chance for to marry a scold , I love my Love , and she loves me : Then I must always by her be controlled , And then my liberty would be quite sold , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc Well , I my choice of the first mean to keep , I love my Love , and she loves me : For she will be quiet when she is asleep , And our affections are settled deep : Oh my love Oh , there is none etc Thus to conclude , you that hear my Song , I love my Love , and she loves me : When I am wedded I'll praise my wives tonge , But then it never shall do me once wrong . With Oh my Love oh , there is none does know How I do love thee . Printed at London by M.P. for F. Grove , near the Sarazens Head with - out New-gate . The Praise of a pretty Lass : OR , The Young men dissimulation : Else he would not disgrace A Maiden in such fashion , To the tune of , Bank's Game . YOung men and Maidens , to you I'll declare , I love my Love , and she loves me : Yet to no Goddess will I her compare , And yet she is pretty indifferent fair ; With oh my Love oh , there is none does know how I do love thee . She is not black , nor yet is she brown , I love my Love , and she loves me : But to her Portion , she hath thirty pound , Beside all this , she hath and old black Gown : Oh my love oh , there's none etc She is not great , nor yet very small , I love my Love , and she loves me : She's a yard and a half in the waste , that is all , Her flesh will preserve her hard bones from a fallen : Oh my Love oh , etc Her Hair is as black as is any Crow , I love my Love , and she loves me : Her good conditions there's no man does know , For she never came where as any did grow : Oh my Love oh , etc She hath a Nose in the midst of her face , I love my Love , and she loves me : And that stands bravely unto her own grace , I dare say a better ne're stood in that place : Oh my Love oh , there is none does know how I do love thee . Her Cheeks are fat , and fair for to see , I love my Love , and she loves me : They with her Eyes wondrous well do agree , She is a brave bonny Lass lovely and free : Oh my Love oh , there's none does know how I do love thee . She hath soft Lips , and found ones they are , I love my Love , and she loves me : You may kiss your fill , and need not to spare , For there is no danger of wearing third-bare : Oh my Love oh , etc She hath a Chin , and a chopping one , I love my Love , and she loves me : She might spare half on't for her that hath none ; But now her long Chin , I will let that alone : Oh my Love oh , there's none etc Her Neck does shine like a Chimney stock , I love my Love , and she loves me : When she her Casket of Pleasures unlock , I am caught as the Milier did catch his Mare Brock : Oh my Love oh , etc Her downy Breasts are swingers indeed , I love my Love , and she loves me : She may carry them on her shoulders for need , Oh she's a brave Lass we want more of her breed ; With oh my Love oh , there is none does know how I do love thee . The second Part , To the same tune . HEr shoulders I think , they are a whole yard square , I love my Love & she loves me : Sheel bear out her labour , you need not to fear , Give me such a Lass that is able to bear . O my love Oh , there is none does know How I do love thee . Likewise she hath good lusty strong Arms , I love my love and she loves me : They are able to defend her body from harms , To set forth her praises it me much concerns , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc Her hand like a shoulder of Mutton appesres , I love my Love and she loves me : But I would not have her fiie about mine ears , T'incounter my love there is no Lass that dares , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc She hath strong post legs her body to bear , I love my Love , and she loves me : She needs dread no falling , that she does not fear But if that you throw her , sheel show you a Bear Oh my love Oh , there is none etc Her fine dainty Foot is of the fourteens , I love my Love , and she loves me : And I can tell you that completely it seems , I must speak her praises , cause love is between's , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc If I should marry with one that were proud , I love my Love and she loves me : She would desire more then can well be aloud , From such haughty creatures my self I will shroud , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc And if I should marry with one that is fair , I love my Love , and she loves me : Perhaps Cornuting might fallen to my share , And so she might work me unto much dispare , Oh my love Oh , there is none does know how I do love thee . And if I should chance to wed one that is small , I love my Love , and she loves me : Then she is not able to do ought at all , And yet sheel be apt to scold and to brall , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc If I should chance for to marry a scold , I love my Love , and she loves me : Then I must always by her be controlled , And then my liberty would be quite sold , Oh my love Oh , there is none etc Well , I my choice of the first mean to keep , I love my Love , and she loves me : For she will be quiet when she is asleep , And our affections are settled deep : Oh my love Oh , there is none etc Thus to conclude , you that hear my Song , I love my Love , and she loves me : When I am wedded I'll praise my wives tonge , But then it never shall do me once wrong . With Oh my Love oh , there is none does know How I do love thee . Printed at London by M.P. for F. Grove , near the Sarazens Head with - out New-gate . 