A pretty new Ditty : OR , A young Lasses Resolution , As her mind I truly scan , Who shows in conclusiion , She loves a handsome young man . To the tune of I know what I know . YOung Maids and young Men I pray you give ear , And with hand and pen I'll plainly declare , Of a Maids resolution which to love is wone , And in the conclusion , She'll have a handsome young man . Quoth she , I am young , and now in my prime , Though some stay too long , yet I'll loose no time : I will have some pleasure as soon as I can , What care I for treasure . I'll have a handsome young man . Some Maidens are coy , and strange in their carriage , And scorn to enjoy a neat young man in marriage : Some wed for money , and some wed for Land ; But I'll choose a honey , Shall be a handsome young man . I have known some Maids that have denied men , And afterwards glad to obtain them again : They will not , and will , thus will they withstand : But isle use my skill To have a handsome young man . Some happily will conjecture of me , That I desire still to live wantonly : No , I am a Lass sure , that live unwedded can , And much will endure For a handsome young man . I would have you know , that I am not so base , Nor shall our sex so by me have disgrace . No , I have some treasure beside house and Land. Therefore isle have pleasure With a handsome young man . The man that isle choose Shall be of good size , Yet isle none refuse if that he be wise : With handsome complexion , neat foot , leg , and hand : This is my affection To have such a man . If I wed a fool with great store of treasure , Then hee'l pine and whule , and debar me of pleasure : Hee'l tell me of fine Gowns , Kertles , Mask and Fan ; For a thousand pounds I'll not wed such a man . The second part , To the same tune . ANd further than that , If I wed with a clown , Hee'l answer me What , and with anger hee'l frown : Then must I beware , perchance with his hand Hee'l strike me o'th ear : But isle have no such man . And many there are , that are somewhat jealous , But isle have a care , and match no such fellows ; Their wives near to men must not fit nor stand , But their heads ache then , o hang up such a man . Loe thus I have shown the conditions of some ; But none can be known till to trial they come : And I am inclined as soon as I can , For to be joined With a handsome young man . Some Maidens do choose for to have Tradesmen . And some will refuse them as much again . But for my own part , as at first I began , I love with my heart a handsome young man . Let him be a Taylor , or a neat Shoemaker , A Weaver or Glover , a Brewer or Baker : Be he neat or comely , my love is soon wone , For my mind is only Of a handsome young man . If that he be gallant , or mean in apparel ; If his looks be valiant , to maintain his quarrel , Then shall he be welcome unto pretty Nan , For I am delightsome To a handsome young man . I pass not what name he is called by , If that I can frame to love him truly , Either Dicke or Robin , Humphrey , Will , or John , Any one me shall win That's a handsome young man . And thus I conclude , and here end my Song , Let none think me rude , nor large of my tongue : For I am intended as first I began , Then let me be friended With a handsome young man . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . FINIS . A pretty new Ditty : OR , A young Lasses Resolution , As her mind I truly scan , Who shows in conclusiion , She loves a handsome young man . To the tune of I know what I know . YOung Maids and young Men I pray you give ear , And with hand and pen I'll plainly declare , Of a Maids resolution which to love is wone , And in the conclusion , She'll have a handsome young man . Quoth she , I am young , and now in my prime , Though some stay too long , yet I'll loose no time : I will have some pleasure as soon as I can , What care I for treasure . I'll have a handsome young man . Some Maidens are coy , and strange in their carriage , And scorn to enjoy a neat young man in marriage : Some wed for money , and some wed for Land ; But I'll choose a honey , Shall be a handsome young man . I have known some Maids that have denied men , And afterwards glad to obtain them again : They will not , and will , thus will they withstand : But isle use my skill To have a handsome young man . Some happily will conjecture of me , That I desire still to live wantonly : No , I am a Lass sure , that live unwedded can , And much will endure For a handsome young man . I would have you know , that I am not so base , Nor shall our sex so by me have disgrace . No , I have some treasure beside house and Land. Therefore isle have pleasure With a handsome young man . The man that isle choose Shall be of good size , Yet isle none refuse if that he be wise : With handsome complexion , neat foot , leg , and hand : This is my affection To have such a man . If I wed a fool with great store of treasure , Then hee'l pine and whule , and debar me of pleasure : Hee'l tell me of fine Gowns , Kertles , Mask and Fan ; For a thousand pounds I'll not wed such a man . The second part , To the same tune . ANd further than that , If I wed with a clown , Hee'l answer me What , and with anger hee'l frown : Then must I beware , perchance with his hand Hee'l strike me o'th ear : But isle have no such man . And many there are , that are somewhat jealous , But isle have a care , and match no such fellows ; Their wives near to men must not fit nor stand , But their heads ache then , o hang up such a man . Loe thus I have shown the conditions of some ; But none can be known till to trial they come : And I am inclined as soon as I can , For to be joined With a handsome young man . Some Maidens do choose for to have Tradesmen . And some will refuse them as much again . But for my own part , as at first I began , I love with my heart a handsome young man . Let him be a Taylor , or a neat Shoemaker , A Weaver or Glover , a Brewer or Baker : Be he neat or comely , my love is soon wone , For my mind is only Of a handsome young man . If that he be gallant , or mean in apparel ; If his looks be valiant , to maintain his quarrel , Then shall he be welcome unto pretty Nan , For I am delightsome To a handsome young man . I pass not what name he is called by , If that I can frame to love him truly , Either Dicke or Robin , Humphrey , Will , or John , Any one me shall win That's a handsome young man . And thus I conclude , and here end my Song , Let none think me rude , nor large of my tongue : For I am intended as first I began , Then let me be friended With a handsome young man . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . FINIS . 