Pretty Nannie : OR , A dainty delicate new Ditty , fit for the Country , Town , or City , which shows how constant she did prove unto her hearts delight and only Love . To a dainty delicate new tune nam , Northern Nannie . I Have a Love so fair , so constant , firm , and kind , She is without compare , whose fancies me does blind . She is the flower of Maids , that ever was or can be , Fair Nymphs lend me your aids to sing of my sweet Nannie : Her golden hair , her face so fair , her glancing eye hath wounded me , Her cheek like snow where Roses grow , Pretty Nanny , My Mistress of true constancy I am thine own and shall be . If Venus would defend , and grant to grace my bed , I would not wrong my friend , by no enticements led : No not the fairest dame , shall win her favour from me , For in the mind I am , I'll honour none but Nannie : For she may command my heart , my hand my body too for to ride or go , If she but say by night or day , Pretty Nannie , My Mistress of true constancy , I am thine own and shall be . My love I will not change for Croesus gold and treasure , Nor will I seem to range from thee my joy and pleasure : Though some do count our sex to waver in affection , Yet do not thou suspect , for I do hate that actium : My love is set , none shall me let , nor me persuade , be not afraid , From thee to turn , I'll rather burn with fire , Thou plain shalt see that I love thee , And will yield to thy desire . She is so rare and wise , and prudent in her carriage , That gallants did devise to win her unto marriage : But she denies all those that do ask such a question , And to me she does disclose her constant true affection : She will not lie nor falsify , but true does prove like the turtledove As I do find to me shee's kind , Pretty Nannie , My Mistress of true constancy , I am thine own and shall be . The second part , To the same tune . HEr favour and her face , do set my heart on fire , When I do her embrace , I have my hearts desire , Her pretty lisping tongue , does joy my heart in speaking , I think no time too long , while I with her keep waking : Her lips so soft I kiss full oft , yet shee'l deny immodesty , My mother's come , Oh I must be gone Pretty Nannie , My Mistress of true constancy , I am thine own and shall be , When I am from her sighed , my heart is drown'd with sorrow , If I do miss one night , I see her the next morrow : She is my only deer , my joy and my sweet pleasure , She is a jewel rare , that far surpasses treasure : Her glistering eyes like starry skies , her dimpled chin I have joyed to see Her neck so white like crystal bright Pretty Nannie , My Mistress of true constancy , I am thine own and shall be . For to fell this bargain now I leave my heart in pawn , As by a faithful vow , that is betwixt us twaine : Then do not thou disdain my Mistress true for to be , Grant love for love again , my own sweet pretty Nannie : And with a kiss befriend me this , my Love adieu I pray be true , My heart with faith for ever says Pretty Nannie , etc Then kindly she replied , thou hast thy hearts desire ; I'll be thy lovely Bride , my love to thee is entire : As I have constant been , so I'll remain for ever , As plainly shall be seen , from thee I will not sever : With hand & heart isle take thy part , in wealth and woe I will do so , The world shall see that I love thee , Most kindly , Thy Mistress , etc Though all my friends do frown , and seem for to prevent me ; Not for a thousand pound , that I will discontent thee : I will not yield to love , nor fancy any other , My mind shall not remove , with father nor with mother , I will not change nor seem to range ; no , I'll endure for ever sure , My heart is thine and thou art mine , Sweet honey , etc What sayest thou my sweet heart , wilt thou consent unto me ? This thou must ease my smart , or else thou wilt undo me : Quoth she I do consent , to what thou dost require , My self I do present to please thy hearts desire : My love on thee shall settled be , what thou dost crave I grant you have my life , my blood , to do thee good ; My honey , Then do not doubt my constancy , I am thine own and will be . FINIS . R.C. Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horshoo in Smithfield , Pretty Nannie : OR , A dainty delicate new Ditty , fit for the Country , Town , or City , which shows how constant she did prove unto her hearts delight and only Love . To a dainty delicate new tune nam , Northern Nannie . I Have a Love so fair , so constant , firm , and kind , She is without compare , whose fancies me does blind . She is the flower of Maids , that ever was or can be , Fair Nymphs lend me your aids to sing of my sweet Nannie : Her golden hair , her face so fair , her glancing eye hath wounded me , Her cheek like snow where Roses grow , Pretty Nanny , My Mistress of true constancy I am thine own and shall be . If Venus would defend , and grant to grace my bed , I would not wrong my friend , by no enticements led : No not the fairest dame , shall win her favour from me , For in the mind I am , I'll honour none but Nannie : For she may command my heart , my hand my body too for to ride or go , If she but say by night or day , Pretty Nannie , My Mistress of true constancy , I am thine own and shall be . My love I will not change for Croesus gold and treasure , Nor will I seem to range from thee my joy and pleasure : Though some do count our sex to waver in affection , Yet do not thou suspect , for I do hate that actium : My love is set , none shall me let , nor me persuade , be not afraid , From thee to turn , I'll rather burn with fire , Thou plain shalt see that I love thee , And will yield to thy desire . She is so rare and wise , and prudent in her carriage , That gallants did devise to win her unto marriage : But she denies all those that do ask such a question , And to me she does disclose her constant true affection : She will not lie nor falsify , but true does prove like the turtledove As I do find to me shee's kind , Pretty Nannie , My Mistress of true constancy , I am thine own and shall be . The second part , To the same tune . HEr favour and her face , do set my heart on fire , When I do her embrace , I have my hearts desire , Her pretty lisping tongue , does joy my heart in speaking , I think no time too long , while I with her keep waking : Her lips so soft I kiss full oft , yet shee'l deny immodesty , My mother's come , Oh I must be gone Pretty Nannie , My Mistress of true constancy , I am thine own and shall be , When I am from her sighed , my heart is drown'd with sorrow , If I do miss one night , I see her the next morrow : She is my only deer , my joy and my sweet pleasure , She is a jewel rare , that far surpasses treasure : Her glistering eyes like starry skies , her dimpled chin I have joyed to see Her neck so white like crystal bright Pretty Nannie , My Mistress of true constancy , I am thine own and shall be . For to fell this bargain now I leave my heart in pawn , As by a faithful vow , that is betwixt us twaine : Then do not thou disdain my Mistress true for to be , Grant love for love again , my own sweet pretty Nannie : And with a kiss befriend me this , my Love adieu I pray be true , My heart with faith for ever says Pretty Nannie , etc Then kindly she replied , thou hast thy hearts desire ; I'll be thy lovely Bride , my love to thee is entire : As I have constant been , so I'll remain for ever , As plainly shall be seen , from thee I will not sever : With hand & heart isle take thy part , in wealth and woe I will do so , The world shall see that I love thee , Most kindly , Thy Mistress , etc Though all my friends do frown , and seem for to prevent me ; Not for a thousand pound , that I will discontent thee : I will not yield to love , nor fancy any other , My mind shall not remove , with father nor with mother , I will not change nor seem to range ; no , I'll endure for ever sure , My heart is thine and thou art mine , Sweet honey , etc What sayest thou my sweet heart , wilt thou consent unto me ? This thou must ease my smart , or else thou wilt undo me : Quoth she I do consent , to what thou dost require , My self I do present to please thy hearts desire : My love on thee shall settled be , what thou dost crave I grant you have my life , my blood , to do thee good ; My honey , Then do not doubt my constancy , I am thine own and will be . FINIS . R.C. Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horshoo in Smithfield , 