The poor man pays for all . This is but a dream which here shall ensue : But the Author wishes his words were not true . To the tune of In slumbering sleep I lay . AS I lay musing all alone , upon my resting bed , Full many a cogitation did come into my head : And waking from my sleep , I my dream to mind did call , Me thought I saw before mine eyes , how poor men pays for all . I many objects did behold , in this my frightful Dream , A part of them I will unfold : and though my present Theme Is but a fancy you may say , yet many things do fallen Too true alas : for at this day the poor man pays for all . Me thought I saw ( which caus'd my care ) what I wish were a fable , That poor men still enforced are to pay more then they are able : Me thought I herd them weeping say , their substance was but small , For rich men will bear all the sway , and poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw how wealthy men did grind the poor men's faces , And greedily did prey on them , not pitying their cases : They make them toil and labour soar for wages too too small : The rich men in the Taverns roar : but poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw and Usurer old , walk in his Fox-fur'd gown , Whose wealth and eminence controlled the most men in the Town : His wealth he by extortion god , and rose by others fallen , He had what his hands earned not , but poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw a Courtier proud go swaggering along , That unto any scarce allow'd the office of his tongue : Me thought , wertenberg not for bribery , his Peacocks plumes would fail , He ruffles out in bravery , but poor men pay for all . Me thought I met ( soar discontent ) some poor men on the way , I asked one whither he went so fast and could not stay ? Quoth he , I must go take my Lease , or else another shall : My Landlords riches do increase , but poor men pay for all . The second part . To the same tune . ME thought I saw most stately wives , go jotting on the way , That live delightful idle lives , and go in garments gay , That with the moon their shapes do change or else thei'l chide and brawl , Thus women go like monsters strange , and poor men pay for all . Me thought I was i'th Country , where poor men take great pains , And labour hard continually . only for-rich men's gains , Like th' Israelites in Egypt , the poor are kept in thrall : The taskmasters are playing kept . but poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw poor Tradesmen ith' City and elsewhere , Whom rich men keep as beadsmen , in bondage care and fear : Thei'l have them work for what they list , thus weakest go to the wall , The rich men eat and drink the best , but poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw two Lawyers base one to another say . We have had in hand this poor men Case , a twelvemonth and a day . And yet weel not contented be to let the matter fallen , Bear thou with me & I'll bear with thee , while poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw a red-nose Oast , as fat as he could wallow , Whose carcase , if it should be roast , would drop seven stone of tallow , He grows rich out of measure , with filling measure small , He lives in mirth and pleasure , but poor men pay for all . And so likewise the Brewer stout , the Chandler and the Baker , The Maltman also without doubt , and the Tobacco-taker , Though they be proud and stately grown , and bear themselves so tall , Yet to the world it is well known , that poor men pay for all . Even as the mighty Fish still , do feed upon the less ; So rich men , might they have their will , would on the poor men cease : It is a proverb old and true , that weakest go to th' wall , Rich men can drink till th' sky look blue , but poor men pay for all . But now , as I before did say , this is but a Dream indeed , Though all dreams prove not true , some m [ ay ] hap right as I do read . And if that any come to pass , I doubt this my Dream shall : For still this found too true a case , that poor men pay for all . Printed at London for H. G. FINIS . The poor man pays for all . This is but a dream which here shall ensue : But the Author wishes his words were not true . To the tune of In slumbering sleep I lay . AS I lay musing all alone , upon my resting bed , Full many a cogitation did come into my head : And waking from my sleep , I my dream to mind did call , Me thought I saw before mine eyes , how poor men pays for all . I many objects did behold , in this my frightful Dream , A part of them I will unfold : and though my present Theme Is but a fancy you may say , yet many things do fallen Too true alas : for at this day the poor man pays for all . Me thought I saw ( which caus'd my care ) what I wish were a fable , That poor men still enforced are to pay more then they are able : Me thought I herd them weeping say , their substance was but small , For rich men will bear all the sway , and poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw how wealthy men did grind the poor men's faces , And greedily did prey on them , not pitying their cases : They make them toil and labour soar for wages too too small : The rich men in the Taverns roar : but poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw and Usurer old , walk in his Fox-fur'd gown , Whose wealth and eminence controlled the most men in the Town : His wealth he by extortion god , and rose by others fallen , He had what his hands earned not , but poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw a Courtier proud go swaggering along , That unto any scarce allow'd the office of his tongue : Me thought , wertenberg not for bribery , his Peacocks plumes would fail , He ruffles out in bravery , but poor men pay for all . Me thought I met ( soar discontent ) some poor men on the way , I asked one whither he went so fast and could not stay ? Quoth he , I must go take my Lease , or else another shall : My Landlords riches do increase , but poor men pay for all . The second part . To the same tune . ME thought I saw most stately wives , go jotting on the way , That live delightful idle lives , and go in garments gay , That with the moon their shapes do change or else thei'l chide and brawl , Thus women go like monsters strange , and poor men pay for all . Me thought I was i'th Country , where poor men take great pains , And labour hard continually . only for-rich men's gains , Like th' Israelites in Egypt , the poor are kept in thrall : The taskmasters are playing kept . but poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw poor Tradesmen ith' City and elsewhere , Whom rich men keep as beadsmen , in bondage care and fear : Thei'l have them work for what they list , thus weakest go to the wall , The rich men eat and drink the best , but poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw two Lawyers base one to another say . We have had in hand this poor men Case , a twelvemonth and a day . And yet weel not contented be to let the matter fallen , Bear thou with me & I'll bear with thee , while poor men pay for all . Me thought I saw a red-nose Oast , as fat as he could wallow , Whose carcase , if it should be roast , would drop seven stone of tallow , He grows rich out of measure , with filling measure small , He lives in mirth and pleasure , but poor men pay for all . And so likewise the Brewer stout , the Chandler and the Baker , The Maltman also without doubt , and the Tobacco-taker , Though they be proud and stately grown , and bear themselves so tall , Yet to the world it is well known , that poor men pay for all . Even as the mighty Fish still , do feed upon the less ; So rich men , might they have their will , would on the poor men cease : It is a proverb old and true , that weakest go to th' wall , Rich men can drink till th' sky look blue , but poor men pay for all . But now , as I before did say , this is but a Dream indeed , Though all dreams prove not true , some m [ ay ] hap right as I do read . And if that any come to pass , I doubt this my Dream shall : For still this found too true a case , that poor men pay for all . Printed at London for H. G. FINIS . 