The Obsequy of fair Phillida With the Shepherds and Nymphs lamentation for her loss . To a new Court Tune . THe fairest Nymph that valleys Or Mountains ever bred , The shepherds joy , So beautiful and coy , Fair Phillida is dead ; On whom they oft have tended , And carol'd on the Plains And for her sake Sweet Roundelays did make , Admir'd by rural Swains : But cruel Fates the beauty's envying Of this blooming Rose , So ready to disclose , With a frost unkindly Nipped the bud untimely , So away her glory goes . The Sheep for woe go bleating , That they their Goddess miss , And sable Ewes , By their mournful shows , Her absence , cause of this ; The Nymphs leave off their dancing , Pans Pipe of joy is cleft ; For great's his grief , He shunneth all relief , Since she from him is reft . Come , fatal Sisters , leave there your spools Leave mourning altogether , That made this flower to wither : Let envy , that foul Vipresse , Put on a wreathe of Cypress , Singing sad Dirges altogether . Diana was chief mourner , At these sad Obsequies , Who with her train Went tripping over the Plain , Singing doleful Elegies : Menalchus and Amintas , And many Shepherds more , With mournful Verse , Did all attend her Hearse , And in sable sadly go : Flora , the Gods that used to beautify Fair Phillis lovely bowers , With sweet fragrant flowers , Now her grave adorned , And with flowers mourned . Tears thereon in vain she powers . Venus alone triumphed , To see this dismal day , Who did despair , That Phillida the fair Her laws would never obey . The blinded boy his arrows And Darts were vainly spen Her heart , alas , Inpenetrable was , And to love would never assen At which affront Citharea repined , 'Cause death with his Dart , Had pierc't her tender hear But her noble spirit Does such joys inherit , Which from her shall never depart . The Obsequy of fair Phillida With the Shepherds and Nymphs lamentation for her loss . To a new Court Tune . THe fairest Nymph that valleys Or Mountains ever bred , The shepherds joy , So beautiful and coy , Fair Phillida is dead ; On whom they oft have tended , And carol'd on the Plains And for her sake Sweet Roundelays did make , Admir'd by rural Swains : But cruel Fates the beauty's envying Of this blooming Rose , So ready to disclose , With a frost unkindly Nipped the bud untimely , So away her glory goes . The Sheep for woe go bleating , That they their Goddess miss , And sable Ewes , By their mournful shows , Her absence , cause of this ; The Nymphs leave off their dancing , Pans Pipe of joy is cleft ; For great's his grief , He shunneth all relief , Since she from him is reft . Come , fatal Sisters , leave there your spools Leave mourning altogether , That made this flower to wither : Let envy , that foul Vipresse , Put on a wreathe of Cypress , Singing sad Dirges altogether . Diana was chief mourner , At these sad Obsequies , Who with her train Went tripping over the Plain , Singing doleful Elegies : Menalchus and Amintas , And many Shepherds more , With mournful Verse , Did all attend her Hearse , And in sable sadly go : Flora , the Gods that used to beautify Fair Phillis lovely bowers , With sweet fragrant flowers , Now her grave adorned , And with flowers mourned . Tears thereon in vain she powers . Venus alone triumphed , To see this dismal day , Who did despair , That Phillida the fair Her laws would never obey . The blinded boy his arrows And Darts were vainly spen Her heart , alas , Inpenetrable was , And to love would never assen At which affront Citharea repined , 'Cause death with his Dart , Had pierc't her tender hear But her noble spirit Does such joys inherit , Which from her shall never depart . 