A most excellent Ballad of and Old Man and his Wife , Who in their want and misery sought to their Children for succour , by whom they were disdained , and scornfully sent them away succourless , and Gods vengeance showed on them for the same . Tune of , Priscillca . IT was and Old man and his Poor Wife , in great distress did fallen , They were so feeble with age God wot , they could not work at all : A Gallant Son they had which lived wealthily , To him they went with a full intent , to ease their misery : Alack and alas for woe . A hundred miles when they had gone , with many a weary step , At length they saw their Sons fair house , which made their hearts to leap , They sat them on the Green their Hose and Shoes to trim , They put their bans about their Necks , against they should enter in : Alack , etc Unto the Door with trembling Joints when these Old couple came , The Woman with a shaking hand , the Old Man blind and lame : Full mannerly they knocked , fearing for to offend , At last their Son frowningly came , unto them in the end ; Alack , etc Good folks , quod he , what would you have ? methinks you are too bold , Why get you not home to your own Country , now you are lame and old ? With that they both reply'd , with sorrow , care , and grief , Here are we come to thee our son , for succour and relief : Alack and alas for woe . THis is thy Father gentle Son , and I thy loving Mother , That brought thee up so tenderly , and lov'd thee above all other , I boar thee in my womb , these breasts did nourish thee , And as it chanc'd , I often danc'd , thee on my tender knee ; Alack and alas for woe . And humbly now we entreat our dear and loving Son , That thou wilt do for us in our age , as we for you have done : Now nay not so , he said , your suit is all in vain , 'Tis best for you I tell you true , to get you home again : Alack , etc The world's not now as when I was born , all things are grown more dear , My charge of children likewise is great , as plainly does appear , The best that I can do , will hardly them maintain , Therefore I say , be packing away , and get you home again . Alack , etc The old man with his Hat in his Hand , full many a Leg did make , The woman wept and wrung her hands , and pray'd for Christ his sake , Not so to send them back , distressed and undone , But let us lie in some Barn here by , Quoth she , my loving Son : By no means he would thereto consent but sent them soon away , Quoth he , you know the peril of the Law , if long time here you stay , The Stocks and Whiping-poast shall fallen unto your share , Then take you heed , and with all speed ; to your Country repair . Alack , etc Away then went this woeful Old man , full sad in heart and mind , With weeping tears his Wife did lament , their Son was so unkind : Thou wicked Wretch , quoth they , for this thy cruel deed , The Lord send thee as little pity , when thou dost stand in need : Alack , etc His Children hearing their Father set his Parents thus at nought , In short time after to have his Land , his death they subtlety wrough What cause have we quoth they , more kindness to express , Then he unto his Parents did , in their great wretchedness : Alack , etc They Murdered him in piteous sort , they weigh'd not his intreats ; The more he pray'd compassionately , the greater were his threats Speak not to us quoth they , for thou the death shalt die , And with that word a dagger and sword , they mangled him monstrously : Alack , etc When they had god his Silver and Gold , according to their mind , They buried him in a stinking Ditch were no man should him find : But now behold and see Gods vengeance on them all , To gain their Gold their Couzin came , and slew them great and small , Alack , etc He came among them with a great Club in dead of time of the night , Yea two of the Sons he brain'd therewith , and taking of his flight The Murderer taken was , and suffered for the same , Deservedly for that cruelty , Alack and alas therefore , etc Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Pass [ inger . ] A most excellent Ballad of and Old Man and his Wife , Who in their want and misery sought to their Children for succour , by whom they were disdained , and scornfully sent them away succourless , and Gods vengeance showed on them for the same . Tune of , Priscillca . IT was and Old man and his Poor Wife , in great distress did fallen , They were so feeble with age God wot , they could not work at all : A Gallant Son they had which lived wealthily , To him they went with a full intent , to ease their misery : Alack and alas for woe . A hundred miles when they had gone , with many a weary step , At length they saw their Sons fair house , which made their hearts to leap , They sat them on the Green their Hose and Shoes to trim , They put their bans about their Necks , against they should enter in : Alack , etc Unto the Door with trembling Joints when these Old couple came , The Woman with a shaking hand , the Old Man blind and lame : Full mannerly they knocked , fearing for to offend , At last their Son frowningly came , unto them in the end ; Alack , etc Good folks , quod he , what would you have ? methinks you are too bold , Why get you not home to your own Country , now you are lame and old ? With that they both reply'd , with sorrow , care , and grief , Here are we come to thee our son , for succour and relief : Alack and alas for woe . THis is thy Father gentle Son , and I thy loving Mother , That brought thee up so tenderly , and lov'd thee above all other , I boar thee in my womb , these breasts did nourish thee , And as it chanc'd , I often danc'd , thee on my tender knee ; Alack and alas for woe . And humbly now we entreat our dear and loving Son , That thou wilt do for us in our age , as we for you have done : Now nay not so , he said , your suit is all in vain , 'Tis best for you I tell you true , to get you home again : Alack , etc The world's not now as when I was born , all things are grown more dear , My charge of children likewise is great , as plainly does appear , The best that I can do , will hardly them maintain , Therefore I say , be packing away , and get you home again . Alack , etc The old man with his Hat in his Hand , full many a Leg did make , The woman wept and wrung her hands , and pray'd for Christ his sake , Not so to send them back , distressed and undone , But let us lie in some Barn here by , Quoth she , my loving Son : By no means he would thereto consent but sent them soon away , Quoth he , you know the peril of the Law , if long time here you stay , The Stocks and Whiping-poast shall fallen unto your share , Then take you heed , and with all speed ; to your Country repair . Alack , etc Away then went this woeful Old man , full sad in heart and mind , With weeping tears his Wife did lament , their Son was so unkind : Thou wicked Wretch , quoth they , for this thy cruel deed , The Lord send thee as little pity , when thou dost stand in need : Alack , etc His Children hearing their Father set his Parents thus at nought , In short time after to have his Land , his death they subtlety wrough What cause have we quoth they , more kindness to express , Then he unto his Parents did , in their great wretchedness : Alack , etc They Murdered him in piteous sort , they weigh'd not his intreats ; The more he pray'd compassionately , the greater were his threats Speak not to us quoth they , for thou the death shalt die , And with that word a dagger and sword , they mangled him monstrously : Alack , etc When they had god his Silver and Gold , according to their mind , They buried him in a stinking Ditch were no man should him find : But now behold and see Gods vengeance on them all , To gain their Gold their Couzin came , and slew them great and small , Alack , etc He came among them with a great Club in dead of time of the night , Yea two of the Sons he brain'd therewith , and taking of his flight The Murderer taken was , and suffered for the same , Deservedly for that cruelty , Alack and alas therefore , etc Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Pass [ inger . ] 