The Revolted Lover . OR A young Maiden is apt to be won , Approved by what this Damsel hath done . To a pleasant new tune . ONce I loved a Maiden fair , but she did deceive me , She with Venus might compare , in my mind , believe me she was young , and among Creatures of temptation : who will say , but Maidens may , Kiss for recreation ? Maidens fair , have a care , chastity is fading : Want of grace in a place , made her use her trading , I did think her for to be Chaster then Diana , but the Boy hath blinded me , More then ever any , Three times I made it known to the Congregation , That the Church had her own , as Priest had made relation . married we straight must be , Although we go a begging : but now by Jove 'tis like to prove a very hopeful wedding . She did swear and protest , with fluent tears weeping Above all men she loved me best , and said I was her sweating but alas , false it was , Chastity was voiding : every one may freely choose Her beauty that loves trading . Then let young men be advised , trust not any wanton Beauty being too high-prizd , find such ground to plant on , that no man , do what he can , Shall confine their duties , they will gad and be mad , To show forth their beauty's . Happy he who never knew what to Love belonged : Maidens wavering and untrue , many a man have wronged : so hath she , wronged me , By her false dissembling : for to hear her to swear Oft my heart was trembling , The Second part . To the same Tune . But the chiefest cause is this , was by some persuasions . Who intic'd her to do amiss , by their strong temptations she was apt to be trapped . being young and stupid : many strove for her love , pricked on by Cupid . I do scorn and detest , to have any Rival : Let her take whom she likes best , sith for her they strive all : when I wed I'll be sped , with one whose mind is fixed , and my love never to move : I'll not be commixed . In my love with any man , I'll have all , or nothing , If she love another man , to me her love is loathing : I will scorn ere to mourn for a wanton feather : if I find her unkind , then the Deel gang with her . You who take so much delight in getting handsome Lasses , Alas , they will delude your sighed , I pity much your cases : their bright eyes can surprise men that do behold them ; young men's words them affords matter to new mould them . Farewell thou faithless Girl , I'll not sorrow for thee : Once I held thee deer as pearl , but now I do abhor thee : hadst thou stayed still a maid , and modesty retained , then my mind firm combined , had with thee remained . But now I am resolved , never with thee to marry Till soul and body be dissolved , I will rather tarry , if I find to my mind one of virtues children , then I soon will have done . but I'll tarry till then . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . The Revolted Lover . OR A young Maiden is apt to be won , Approved by what this Damsel hath done . To a pleasant new tune . ONce I loved a Maiden fair , but she did deceive me , She with Venus might compare , in my mind , believe me she was young , and among Creatures of temptation : who will say , but Maidens may , Kiss for recreation ? Maidens fair , have a care , chastity is fading : Want of grace in a place , made her use her trading , I did think her for to be Chaster then Diana , but the Boy hath blinded me , More then ever any , Three times I made it known to the Congregation , That the Church had her own , as Priest had made relation . married we straight must be , Although we go a begging : but now by Jove 'tis like to prove a very hopeful wedding . She did swear and protest , with fluent tears weeping Above all men she loved me best , and said I was her sweating but alas , false it was , Chastity was voiding : every one may freely choose Her beauty that loves trading . Then let young men be advised , trust not any wanton Beauty being too high-prizd , find such ground to plant on , that no man , do what he can , Shall confine their duties , they will gad and be mad , To show forth their beauty's . Happy he who never knew what to Love belonged : Maidens wavering and untrue , many a man have wronged : so hath she , wronged me , By her false dissembling : for to hear her to swear Oft my heart was trembling , The Second part . To the same Tune . But the chiefest cause is this , was by some persuasions . Who intic'd her to do amiss , by their strong temptations she was apt to be trapped . being young and stupid : many strove for her love , pricked on by Cupid . I do scorn and detest , to have any Rival : Let her take whom she likes best , sith for her they strive all : when I wed I'll be sped , with one whose mind is fixed , and my love never to move : I'll not be commixed . In my love with any man , I'll have all , or nothing , If she love another man , to me her love is loathing : I will scorn ere to mourn for a wanton feather : if I find her unkind , then the Deel gang with her . You who take so much delight in getting handsome Lasses , Alas , they will delude your sighed , I pity much your cases : their bright eyes can surprise men that do behold them ; young men's words them affords matter to new mould them . Farewell thou faithless Girl , I'll not sorrow for thee : Once I held thee deer as pearl , but now I do abhor thee : hadst thou stayed still a maid , and modesty retained , then my mind firm combined , had with thee remained . But now I am resolved , never with thee to marry Till soul and body be dissolved , I will rather tarry , if I find to my mind one of virtues children , then I soon will have done . but I'll tarry till then . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . 