v The young men kind reply unto the comfortless Maid , He grees with his Love in all she hath said , Showing to her a part of his mind , That he will be always most loving and kind . To the tune Of the pride of Leister Shire . Hark , hark , me thinks I hear one speaks what should this Echo mean ? I think it be my own true Love , my fair and only Dame : Oh why shouldst thou , my Philladay , complain that I am gone , And knowest I am the only man , that loves thee alone ? I am not gone away from thee , my only hearts deligh But comfort thou shalt find by me , by day and eke by nigh My own sweet Love , and Turtle Dove , be not disturbed in mind : For thou shalt find , I will prove kind , and never change again . I promised thee for to be true , and so I will endure , Though I at first did prove thy heart , this good for to be sure , To prove thy mind , and know thee kind , for many false there be , And so mightest thou , for ought I know , have proved unto me . Though I did make a vow to thee , and pawned with thee my heart , Yet thou hast spoken unto me , as though thou would'st depar But now I find thee true and kind , and I the like will be : While death does part , my tender hear [ tO ] I will not part with thee : All you kind hearts that have true loves by me example take : And have a care , whereto you swear for the Almighty's sake : Do not go on as I have done , to breed a Maidens smar But turn in time , in heart and mind , and ease your true Loves-heart . Would God I ne'r had wrong'd my [ Love ] nor been to her unkind : Then should she have no cause to mourn nor be disturbed in mind : But being it's so , I well do know , I must unto her go : And speak my mind , in loving kind , and ease her of her woe . Come , come , sweet heart , do not repent , nor wrestle in despair , Though I to thee have been unkind , I'll ease thee of thy care : For I will prove constant in love , as always thou shalt find , I will be true , not change for new , but always will be kind . Come , Love , let's speak no more of this , but faithfully let's join : And look before what was amiss , I mean for to amend : Come let us now , perform our vow , and make no more ado : But let us join in heart and mind , and so to Church let's go . And so these Lovers made and end , of these their former words : One loved the other heartily , not breeding no discords : In peace I pray long live they may , and all true Lovers else : What ere they be , or what degree , so much is spoke of me . FINIS . London Printed for F. Coules . v The young men kind reply unto the comfortless Maid , He grees with his Love in all she hath said , Showing to her a part of his mind , That he will be always most loving and kind . To the tune Of the pride of Leister Shire . Hark , hark , me thinks I hear one speaks what should this Echo mean ? I think it be my own true Love , my fair and only Dame : Oh why shouldst thou , my Philladay , complain that I am gone , And knowest I am the only man , that loves thee alone ? I am not gone away from thee , my only hearts deligh But comfort thou shalt find by me , by day and eke by nigh My own sweet Love , and Turtle Dove , be not disturbed in mind : For thou shalt find , I will prove kind , and never change again . I promised thee for to be true , and so I will endure , Though I at first did prove thy heart , this good for to be sure , To prove thy mind , and know thee kind , for many false there be , And so mightest thou , for ought I know , have proved unto me . Though I did make a vow to thee , and pawned with thee my heart , Yet thou hast spoken unto me , as though thou would'st depar But now I find thee true and kind , and I the like will be : While death does part , my tender hear [ tO ] I will not part with thee : All you kind hearts that have true loves by me example take : And have a care , whereto you swear for the Almighty's sake : Do not go on as I have done , to breed a Maidens smar But turn in time , in heart and mind , and ease your true Loves-heart . Would God I ne'r had wrong'd my [ Love ] nor been to her unkind : Then should she have no cause to mourn nor be disturbed in mind : But being it's so , I well do know , I must unto her go : And speak my mind , in loving kind , and ease her of her woe . Come , come , sweet heart , do not repent , nor wrestle in despair , Though I to thee have been unkind , I'll ease thee of thy care : For I will prove constant in love , as always thou shalt find , I will be true , not change for new , but always will be kind . Come , Love , let's speak no more of this , but faithfully let's join : And look before what was amiss , I mean for to amend : Come let us now , perform our vow , and make no more ado : But let us join in heart and mind , and so to Church let's go . And so these Lovers made and end , of these their former words : One loved the other heartily , not breeding no discords : In peace I pray long live they may , and all true Lovers else : What ere they be , or what degree , so much is spoke of me . FINIS . London Printed for F. Coules . 