A new Ballad for you to look on , How Malt does deal with every one . To the tune of , Triumph and Joy . MAs Malt he is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never knew yet any man that could match with master Malt sir I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding stones . He laid them so close that he crushed his bones , you never knew the like sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a flower , Thou art beloved in every bower , Thou canst not be missing one half hour . you never saw the like sir , For laying of his stones so close , Malt gave the Miiser a copper nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee I stick sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his horse he fell full low , He taught him his master Malt for to know , you never saw the like sir . Our hostess maid she was to blame , She stole master Malt away from her dame , And in her belly she hid the same , you never saw the like sir , So when the Malt did work in her head , Twice a day she would be sped , At night she could not go to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet sir . Then came in the master Smith , And said that Malt he was a thief . But Malt gave him such a dash in the teeth ; you never saw the like sir , For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , The Smith was feign to get him to bed , for then he was very sick sir . The Carpender came a piece to square , He bade Malt come out if he dare , He would empty his belly , and beatrice his sides bore that he knew not where to fit sir . To fire he went with and arm full of chips , Malt hit him right between his lips , And made him lame in both his hips , you never saw the like sir . The Shoemaker sitting upon his seat With master Malt he began to fret , He said he would the knave so beatrice , you never saw the like sir . Malt peeped his head out of a hall , The Shoemaker said , he would drink him up all , They tumbled together till down they did fallen , you never saw the like sir . The Weaver being in his loom , He threatened master Malt to bum , When he had knit on to the thrum , you never saw the like sir , And such a Court some Weavers held , They would pay our Hosts when they had felled , But when every one had his part and dealed , they knew not where to fit sir . The Tinker he took the Weavers part Because he is touching unto his Art , He took the pot and drank a quart , the world was very quick sir . Malt had of him his own desire , He made him tumble into the fire , And there he lost his burling ire , he hath not found it yet sir . The Taylor he came in to grind his shears , Malt and he were together by the ears , Great is the company Malt still rears , you never saw the like sir . For when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed a board in stead of a coat , And sailed home in a featherbed boat , you never saw the like sir , So then the Tinker did found his pan , Then said master Malt I must be gone , I am the good fellow that helpeth each one , you never saw the like sir . The Tinker then that he was feign , With Malt to have about or twaine , Malt hit him soar in every vain , you never saw the like sir . Then bespoke the Tinker anon He said he would prove himself a man , He laid on Malt till the bousse was gone , the Bung and the Tinker fell sick sir . The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bade the boy , go tap the can , I'll have about with Malt anan , you never saw the like sir . Aboard they went to try their match , And there they played at hop and catch , Malt bestowed him under the hatch , and made him keep the ship sir . Then came the Chapman traveling by , And said , my master's I will be [ b ] 'ye , Indeed master Malt my mouth is dry . I will gnaw you with my teeth sir . The Chapman he laid on a pace , Till store of blood came in his face , But Malt brought him in such a case , you never saw the like sir . The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his part did take , They bound Malt to the good-ale stake , you never saw the like sir . Then Malt began to tell his mind , And plide them with Ale , Beer and Wine , They left Brick , axe and Trowel behind , they could not lay a brick sir . Then came the Labourer out with his hood , And saw his two master's how they stood , He took master Malt by the whood . and swore he would him stricke sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But Malt cast him into the mortar heap , and there he fell asleep sir . The Butcher came to buy a sheep : He said he would make Malt to creep , But Malt made him the cat to whip , you never saw the like sir . The Glover came to buy a skin , Malt hit him right above the chin , The pewter John came doubling in , you never saw the like sir . And laid on head , arms , and joints , Took away his gloves , and gross of points , And swore they had paid him in quarts and pints you never saw the like sir . Thus of my song I will make and end , And pray my hostess to be my friend , To give me some drink now my money is spend then Malt and I am quits sir . FINIS . A new Ballad for you to look on , How Malt does deal with every one . To the tune of , Triumph and Joy . MAs Malt he is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never knew yet any man that could match with master Malt sir I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding stones . He laid them so close that he crushed his bones , you never knew the like sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a flower , Thou art beloved in every bower , Thou canst not be missing one half hour . you never saw the like sir , For laying of his stones so close , Malt gave the Miiser a copper nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee I stick sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his horse he fell full low , He taught him his master Malt for to know , you never saw the like sir . Our hostess maid she was to blame , She stole master Malt away from her dame , And in her belly she hid the same , you never saw the like sir , So when the Malt did work in her head , Twice a day she would be sped , At night she could not go to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet sir . Then came in the master Smith , And said that Malt he was a thief . But Malt gave him such a dash in the teeth ; you never saw the like sir , For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , The Smith was feign to get him to bed , for then he was very sick sir . The Carpender came a piece to square , He bade Malt come out if he dare , He would empty his belly , and beatrice his sides bore that he knew not where to fit sir . To fire he went with and arm full of chips , Malt hit him right between his lips , And made him lame in both his hips , you never saw the like sir . The Shoemaker sitting upon his seat With master Malt he began to fret , He said he would the knave so beatrice , you never saw the like sir . Malt peeped his head out of a hall , The Shoemaker said , he would drink him up all , They tumbled together till down they did fallen , you never saw the like sir . The Weaver being in his loom , He threatened master Malt to bum , When he had knit on to the thrum , you never saw the like sir , And such a Court some Weavers held , They would pay our Hosts when they had felled , But when every one had his part and dealed , they knew not where to fit sir . The Tinker he took the Weavers part Because he is touching unto his Art , He took the pot and drank a quart , the world was very quick sir . Malt had of him his own desire , He made him tumble into the fire , And there he lost his burling ire , he hath not found it yet sir . The Taylor he came in to grind his shears , Malt and he were together by the ears , Great is the company Malt still rears , you never saw the like sir . For when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed a board in stead of a coat , And sailed home in a featherbed boat , you never saw the like sir , So then the Tinker did found his pan , Then said master Malt I must be gone , I am the good fellow that helpeth each one , you never saw the like sir . The Tinker then that he was feign , With Malt to have about or twaine , Malt hit him soar in every vain , you never saw the like sir . Then bespoke the Tinker anon He said he would prove himself a man , He laid on Malt till the bousse was gone , the Bung and the Tinker fell sick sir . The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bade the boy , go tap the can , I'll have about with Malt anan , you never saw the like sir . Aboard they went to try their match , And there they played at hop and catch , Malt bestowed him under the hatch , and made him keep the ship sir . Then came the Chapman traveling by , And said , my master's I will be [ b ] 'ye , Indeed master Malt my mouth is dry . I will gnaw you with my teeth sir . The Chapman he laid on a pace , Till store of blood came in his face , But Malt brought him in such a case , you never saw the like sir . The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his part did take , They bound Malt to the good-ale stake , you never saw the like sir . Then Malt began to tell his mind , And plide them with Ale , Beer and Wine , They left Brick , axe and Trowel behind , they could not lay a brick sir . Then came the Labourer out with his hood , And saw his two master's how they stood , He took master Malt by the whood . and swore he would him stricke sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But Malt cast him into the mortar heap , and there he fell asleep sir . The Butcher came to buy a sheep : He said he would make Malt to creep , But Malt made him the cat to whip , you never saw the like sir . The Glover came to buy a skin , Malt hit him right above the chin , The pewter John came doubling in , you never saw the like sir . And laid on head , arms , and joints , Took away his gloves , and gross of points , And swore they had paid him in quarts and pints you never saw the like sir . Thus of my song I will make and end , And pray my hostess to be my friend , To give me some drink now my money is spend then Malt and I am quits sir . FINIS . 