The praise of our Country Barley-brake : OR , Cupids advisement for Youngmen to take Up this loving old sport , called Barley-brake . To the tune of , when this Old Cap was new . BOth young men Maids and Lads , of what state or degree , Whither southeast or west , or of the North Country I wish you all good health , that in this Summer's weather , Your sweethearts and your selves , play at Barley-brake together . As it a customs was , so let it flourish still , Flora again hath decked your much frequented hill , And Phebus two divides what Boreas pacts together , That he with furious chides , does not over cast the weather . Then sith the cause so stands , that all these think it good , To put their helping hands , let nothing be withstood , Fulfil the proverb old , your lovers in fair weather . As well as to make hay , play Barley Brake together . If thy love give the stroke , be sure have and eye Before hand it is spoke , then follow presently , And if thou dost him catch , then pray for more fair weather , That you may play a match at Barley Brake together . Then William loved Nan , and that with such good will , That they of Love must scan , upon yond greeny hill , Their talk is not of wealth , but how they may persever , In that same love was shown , at Barley-brake together . Then Thomas loved Nell , although her friends were poor , Her virtue did excel , she needed then no more . I , Nicholas then would smile , and Phillip pleased was ever . when they could play a while , at Barley Brake together . Nay Simon Franke and Steven , with Sisly Doll and Mary Need not to this be driven , Nor Kate that keeps the Dary , For with a forward mind , not fearing wind nor weather , She knows young men are kind , at Barley-brake together . Then Harry would bestow , wine , beer and Cakes on Bridget , But now this nothing so : his Father does forbid it , If wealthy Maids be slack , there's few that dare show favour , Their Father's keep them back , no , no , you shall not have her . The second part . To the same Tune . ANd that was Cupids time , wherein he god much praise , For none did Usher then , in his School in those days , Now lust his Ushers hand , and pride bears such a sway , That all his shafts are burn'd , that were so sweet and gay . When as this mirth was used , of which I now do write , Love was not so abused nor in so bad a plighted , As he is now adays , for though he be no fool among his Scholars now , he is hist out of his School . But cheer up pretty Maids , for now I'll leave the City , And bring your Country blads , unto their former pity , And if they ever did love , so shall they now persever , And you shall play like Doves at Barley-brake together . It is a lively sport to set how nimbly ; You need no great report , the same to testify , To see with sweet embrace , each Lad his Lass does clip , And laying face to face , does taste each others lip . Thus are are our Country youth , both merry too and joyall , If they set love this truth , they hate to be disloyal And therefore in their praise , my pen shall write for ever , Because they love do raise , at Barley-brake together . And many Pastimes more , which long hath been neglected , Again to you is restored , then let it be respected , And as in times before , so do you now persever , Then will you ever love soar at Barley-brake together . Therefore you Country Maids , that are to London gone , Let me with fair persuades , entreat you to come home , If you your Love will meet , make haste and high you hither , That he and you may greet , at Barley-brake together . Then think not you amiss , of this my good advice , Nor for to take a kiss , I pray you be not nice ; This Cupid does direct you how you may persever , Let that be no neglect , at Barley-brake together . Then will old customs come , unto their former use , And Love be made amends , for this his great abuse , That he hath long sustain'd , in Country , Town and City . And lust shall be arraign'd , and none shall plead for pity . Because he hath defil'd , what Love hath oft united , And so unloos'd the knot , that Cupid so delighted , To see in every breast , within this Summer's weather , True Lovers never ablest , but when they play together . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . The praise of our Country Barley-brake : OR , Cupids advisement for Youngmen to take Up this loving old sport , called Barley-brake . To the tune of , when this Old Cap was new . BOth young men Maids and Lads , of what state or degree , Whither southeast or west , or of the North Country I wish you all good health , that in this Summer's weather , Your sweethearts and your selves , play at Barley-brake together . As it a customs was , so let it flourish still , Flora again hath decked your much frequented hill , And Phebus two divides what Boreas pacts together , That he with furious chides , does not over cast the weather . Then sith the cause so stands , that all these think it good , To put their helping hands , let nothing be withstood , Fulfil the proverb old , your lovers in fair weather . As well as to make hay , play Barley Brake together . If thy love give the stroke , be sure have and eye Before hand it is spoke , then follow presently , And if thou dost him catch , then pray for more fair weather , That you may play a match at Barley Brake together . Then William loved Nan , and that with such good will , That they of Love must scan , upon yond greeny hill , Their talk is not of wealth , but how they may persever , In that same love was shown , at Barley-brake together . Then Thomas loved Nell , although her friends were poor , Her virtue did excel , she needed then no more . I , Nicholas then would smile , and Phillip pleased was ever . when they could play a while , at Barley Brake together . Nay Simon Franke and Steven , with Sisly Doll and Mary Need not to this be driven , Nor Kate that keeps the Dary , For with a forward mind , not fearing wind nor weather , She knows young men are kind , at Barley-brake together . Then Harry would bestow , wine , beer and Cakes on Bridget , But now this nothing so : his Father does forbid it , If wealthy Maids be slack , there's few that dare show favour , Their Father's keep them back , no , no , you shall not have her . The second part . To the same Tune . ANd that was Cupids time , wherein he god much praise , For none did Usher then , in his School in those days , Now lust his Ushers hand , and pride bears such a sway , That all his shafts are burn'd , that were so sweet and gay . When as this mirth was used , of which I now do write , Love was not so abused nor in so bad a plighted , As he is now adays , for though he be no fool among his Scholars now , he is hist out of his School . But cheer up pretty Maids , for now I'll leave the City , And bring your Country blads , unto their former pity , And if they ever did love , so shall they now persever , And you shall play like Doves at Barley-brake together . It is a lively sport to set how nimbly ; You need no great report , the same to testify , To see with sweet embrace , each Lad his Lass does clip , And laying face to face , does taste each others lip . Thus are are our Country youth , both merry too and joyall , If they set love this truth , they hate to be disloyal And therefore in their praise , my pen shall write for ever , Because they love do raise , at Barley-brake together . And many Pastimes more , which long hath been neglected , Again to you is restored , then let it be respected , And as in times before , so do you now persever , Then will you ever love soar at Barley-brake together . Therefore you Country Maids , that are to London gone , Let me with fair persuades , entreat you to come home , If you your Love will meet , make haste and high you hither , That he and you may greet , at Barley-brake together . Then think not you amiss , of this my good advice , Nor for to take a kiss , I pray you be not nice ; This Cupid does direct you how you may persever , Let that be no neglect , at Barley-brake together . Then will old customs come , unto their former use , And Love be made amends , for this his great abuse , That he hath long sustain'd , in Country , Town and City . And lust shall be arraign'd , and none shall plead for pity . Because he hath defil'd , what Love hath oft united , And so unloos'd the knot , that Cupid so delighted , To see in every breast , within this Summer's weather , True Lovers never ablest , but when they play together . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . 