A pleasant new Ballad to sing both Even and Morn , Of the bloody murder of Sir John Barleycorn . To the tune of , Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a merry greeting : A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two noble men were meeting . And as they walked for to sport , upon a Summers day , Thou with another nobleman they went to make a fray , Whose name was sir John Barleycorn , he dwelled down in a dale : Who had a kinsman dwelled him nigh , they cal'd him Thomas Goodale . Another nam Richard Beer , was ready at that time : Another worthy Knight was there , call'd sir William White Wine . Some of them fought in a black Jacke , some of them in a Can : But the chiefest in a black pot , like a worthy noble man . Sir John Barleycorn fought in a Boul , who won the victory : And made them all to fume and swear , that Barleycorn should die . Some said kill him , some said drown , others wished to hang him high : For as many as follow Barleycorn , shall surely begggers die . Then with a plough they plowed him up and thus they did devise , To bury him quick within the earth , and swore he should not rise . With horrowes strong they combed him and burst clods on his head : A joyful banquet then was made , when Barleycorn was dead . He rested still within the earth , till rain from skies did fallen , Then he grew up in branches green , which soar amaz'd them all . And so grew up till Midsummer , which made them all afeard : For he was sprouted up on high , and god a goodly beard . Then he grew till S. James tide , his countenance was wan , For he was grown unto his strength , and thus became a man . With hooks and sickles keen , into the field they hide , They cut his legs off by the knees , and made him wounds full wide . Thus bloodily they cut him down from place where he did stand , And like a thief for treachery , they bound him in a band . So thon they took him up again , according to his kind : And packed him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . And with a pitchfork that was sharp , they rend him to the heart , And like a thief for treason vile , they bound him in a cart . And tending him with weapons strong , unto the town they high , And straight they mowed him in a mow and there they let him lie . Then he lay groaning by the walls , till all his wounds were soar , At length they took him up again , and cast him on the floor . They hired two with holly clubs , to beatrice on him at once , They thwacked so on Barleycorn , that flesh fell from the bones . And then they took him up again , to fulfil women's mind They dusted and they sifted him , till he was almost blind . And then they knit him in a sack , which grieved him full soar : They steep'd him in a Fat , God wot , for three days space and more . Then they took him up again , and laid him for to dry , They cast him on a chamber floor , and swore that he should die . They rubbed and they stirred him , and still they did him turn . The Maltman swore that he should die , his body he would burn . They spitefully took him up again , and threw him on a Kill : So dried him there with fire hight , and thus they wraught their will . Then they brought him to the mill , and there they burst his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . Then they took him up again , and serv'd him worse then that , For with hight scalding liquour store they washed him in a Fat . But not content with this God wot . that did him much harm , With threatening words they promised to beatrice him into barm . And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They took him straight out of the fat , and tunn'd him in a barrel , And then they set a tap to him , even thus his death begun : They drew out every dram of blood , while any drop would run , Some brought jacks upon their backs , some brought bill and bow , And every man his weapon had , Barleycorn to overthrow . When sir John Good-ale herd of this , he came with much might , And there he took their tongues away , their legs or else their sighed . And thus sir John in each respect so paid them all their hire , That some lay sleeping by the way , some tumbling in the mire . Some lay groaning by the walls , some in the streets down right , The best of them did scarcely know what they had done overnight . All you good wives that brew good ale , God turn from you all teen : But if you put too much water in , the devil put out your eyes . FINIS . London Printed for John Wright , and [ worser ] are to be sold at his shop in Guilt-spurre street at the sign of the Bible . A pleasant new Ballad to sing both Even and Morn , Of the bloody murder of Sir John Barleycorn . To the tune of , Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a merry greeting : A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two noble men were meeting . And as they walked for to sport , upon a Summers day , Thou with another nobleman they went to make a fray , Whose name was sir John Barleycorn , he dwelled down in a dale : Who had a kinsman dwelled him nigh , they cal'd him Thomas Goodale . Another nam Richard Beer , was ready at that time : Another worthy Knight was there , call'd sir William White Wine . Some of them fought in a black Jacke , some of them in a Can : But the chiefest in a black pot , like a worthy noble man . Sir John Barleycorn fought in a Boul , who won the victory : And made them all to fume and swear , that Barleycorn should die . Some said kill him , some said drown , others wished to hang him high : For as many as follow Barleycorn , shall surely begggers die . Then with a plough they plowed him up and thus they did devise , To bury him quick within the earth , and swore he should not rise . With horrowes strong they combed him and burst clods on his head : A joyful banquet then was made , when Barleycorn was dead . He rested still within the earth , till rain from skies did fallen , Then he grew up in branches green , which soar amaz'd them all . And so grew up till Midsummer , which made them all afeard : For he was sprouted up on high , and god a goodly beard . Then he grew till S. James tide , his countenance was wan , For he was grown unto his strength , and thus became a man . With hooks and sickles keen , into the field they hide , They cut his legs off by the knees , and made him wounds full wide . Thus bloodily they cut him down from place where he did stand , And like a thief for treachery , they bound him in a band . So thon they took him up again , according to his kind : And packed him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . And with a pitchfork that was sharp , they rend him to the heart , And like a thief for treason vile , they bound him in a cart . And tending him with weapons strong , unto the town they high , And straight they mowed him in a mow and there they let him lie . Then he lay groaning by the walls , till all his wounds were soar , At length they took him up again , and cast him on the floor . They hired two with holly clubs , to beatrice on him at once , They thwacked so on Barleycorn , that flesh fell from the bones . And then they took him up again , to fulfil women's mind They dusted and they sifted him , till he was almost blind . And then they knit him in a sack , which grieved him full soar : They steep'd him in a Fat , God wot , for three days space and more . Then they took him up again , and laid him for to dry , They cast him on a chamber floor , and swore that he should die . They rubbed and they stirred him , and still they did him turn . The Maltman swore that he should die , his body he would burn . They spitefully took him up again , and threw him on a Kill : So dried him there with fire hight , and thus they wraught their will . Then they brought him to the mill , and there they burst his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . Then they took him up again , and serv'd him worse then that , For with hight scalding liquour store they washed him in a Fat . But not content with this God wot . that did him much harm , With threatening words they promised to beatrice him into barm . And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They took him straight out of the fat , and tunn'd him in a barrel , And then they set a tap to him , even thus his death begun : They drew out every dram of blood , while any drop would run , Some brought jacks upon their backs , some brought bill and bow , And every man his weapon had , Barleycorn to overthrow . When sir John Good-ale herd of this , he came with much might , And there he took their tongues away , their legs or else their sighed . And thus sir John in each respect so paid them all their hire , That some lay sleeping by the way , some tumbling in the mire . Some lay groaning by the walls , some in the streets down right , The best of them did scarcely know what they had done overnight . All you good wives that brew good ale , God turn from you all teen : But if you put too much water in , the devil put out your eyes . FINIS . London Printed for John Wright , and [ worser ] are to be sold at his shop in Guilt-spurre street at the sign of the Bible . 