Renowned Robin Hood : Or , His famous Archery truly related : with the worthy exploits he acted before Queen Katherine , he being and Outlaw man , and how she for the same obtained of the King , his own , and his fellows pardon . To a new tune . GOld taken from the Kings Harbingers , down a down a down , as seldom hath been seen , down a down a down , And carried by bold Robin Hood , for a preesent to the Queen . down a down a down . If that I live a year to and end , thus can Queen Katherine say : Bold Robin Hood , I will be thy friend , and all thy Yeomen gay . The Queen is to her Chamber gone , as fast as she can wen , She calls unto her lovely Page , his name was Richard Parringten . Come hither to me thou lovely Page , come thou hither to me . For thou must post to Nottingham as fast as thou can dree . And as thou goest to Nottingham , search all those English wood , Inquire of one good Yeoman or another , that can tell thee of Robin Hood . Sometime he went , sometime he ran , as fast as he could win , And when he came at Nottingham , there he took up his Inn . And when he came at Nottingham , and had took up his Inn , He calls for a Pottle of Renish wine , and drank a health to his Queen . There sat a Yeoman by his side , tell me sweet Page said he , What is thy business , or the cause so far in this North Country . This is my business and the cause , Sir , I'll tell it you for good , To inquire of one good yeoman or another to tell me of Robin Hood . I'll get my horse betime in the morn , be it break of day , And I will show thee bold Robin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay . When that he came at Robin Hoods place , he fell down on his knee , Queen Katherine she does greet you well , she greets you well by me . She bids you post to fair London Court , not fearing any thing , For there shall be a little sport , and she hath sent you her Ring . Robin took his mantle from his back , it was of the Lincolne green , And sent that by this lovely Page , for a present unto the Queen . In Summer time when leaves grow green , it's a seemly sighed to see How Robin Hood himself had dressed , and all his Yeomanry . He clothed his mon in Lincolns green , and himself in Scarlet Read , Black hats , white feathers , all alike now bold Robin Hood is rid . And when he came at Londons Court , he fell down on his knee , Thou art welcome Locksly , said the Queen , and all thy good Yeomen three . The King is into Fensbury field marching in battle ray , And after fellows bold Robin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay . Come hither Tepus ( said the King ) down a down a down , bow bearer after me , down a down a down , Come measure mout with this line , how long our mark shall be . down a down a down . To second part , To the same tune . WHat is the wager said the Queen , that must I now know here ? Three hundred Tun of Rhenish wine , three hundred Tun of Beer . Three hundred of the fattest Hearts that ron on Dallom Lee. That's a Princely wager said the King , that needs must I tell thee . With that bespoke one Clifton then , down a down a down , fallen quickly and full soon , down a down a down , Measure no marks for us most Sovereign liege , wee'l shoot at Sun and Moon . down a down a down . Full fifteene score your mark shall be , full fifteene score shall stand : I'll lay my bow said Clifton then , I'll cleave the Willow wand . With that the Kings Archer led about , while it was three and none : With that the Ladies began to shout , Madam your game is gone . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries , I crave on my bore knee : Is there any knight of your privy counsel , of Queen Katherines part will be ? Come hither to me Sir Richard Lee , thou art a knight full good , For I do know by thy pedigree , thou sprung'st from Gowers blood . Come hither to me thou Bishop of Herefordshire , for a noble Priest was he ; By my silver Miter said the Bishop then , I'll not bet one penny . The King hath Archers of his own , full ready and full ligh And these be strangers every one , no man knows what they hight . What wilt thou bet said Robin Hood , thou seest our game the worse : By my silver Miter said the Bishop then , all my money within my Purse . What is in thy Purse said Robin Hood , throw it down on the ground , Fifteen score nobles said the Bishop then , it's near and hundred pound . Robin Hood took his bag from his side , and threw it down on the green , William Scadlock went smiling away , I know who this money must win . With that the Kings Archers led about , while it was three and three , With that the Ladies gave a shout , Woodcock beware thy nee . It is three and three . Now said the King , the next three pay for all : Robin Hood went and whisper'd to the Queen the Kings part shall be but small . Robin Hood he led about , he shot it underhand : And Clifton with a baring Arrow , he clove the willow wand . And little Midge the Millers Son , he shot not much the worse , He shot within a finger of the prick , now Bishop beware thy purse . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cried , I crave that on my bore knee , That you will angry be with none that is of my party . They shall have forty days to come , and forty days to go , And three times forty to sport and play , then welcome friend or foe . Then thou art welcome Robin Hood said the Queen , and so is little John , So is Midge the Millers Son , thrice welcome every one . Is this Robin Hood now said the King ? for it was so told to me , That he was slain in Palace gates , so far in the North Country . Is this Robin Hood said the Bishop then , as I see well to be ? Had I known that had been that bold outlaw I would not bet one penny . He took me late one Saturday at night , and bound me fast to a tree , And made me sing a mass , God wot , to him and his Yeomen three . What and if I did says Robin Hood , of that mass I was feign , For recompense to thee he says , here's half thy gold again . Now nay , now nay , says little John , down a down a down , master that shall not be , down a down a down , we must give gifts to the Kings Officers , that gold will serve thee and me . down a down a down . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis-Grove . Renowned Robin Hood : Or , His famous Archery truly related : with the worthy exploits he acted before Queen Katherine , he being and Outlaw man , and how she for the same obtained of the King , his own , and his fellows pardon . To a new tune . GOld taken from the Kings Harbingers , down a down a down , as seldom hath been seen , down a down a down , And carried by bold Robin Hood , for a preesent to the Queen . down a down a down . If that I live a year to and end , thus can Queen Katherine say : Bold Robin Hood , I will be thy friend , and all thy Yeomen gay . The Queen is to her Chamber gone , as fast as she can wen , She calls unto her lovely Page , his name was Richard Parringten . Come hither to me thou lovely Page , come thou hither to me . For thou must post to Nottingham as fast as thou can dree . And as thou goest to Nottingham , search all those English wood , Inquire of one good Yeoman or another , that can tell thee of Robin Hood . Sometime he went , sometime he ran , as fast as he could win , And when he came at Nottingham , there he took up his Inn . And when he came at Nottingham , and had took up his Inn , He calls for a Pottle of Renish wine , and drank a health to his Queen . There sat a Yeoman by his side , tell me sweet Page said he , What is thy business , or the cause so far in this North Country . This is my business and the cause , Sir , I'll tell it you for good , To inquire of one good yeoman or another to tell me of Robin Hood . I'll get my horse betime in the morn , be it break of day , And I will show thee bold Robin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay . When that he came at Robin Hoods place , he fell down on his knee , Queen Katherine she does greet you well , she greets you well by me . She bids you post to fair London Court , not fearing any thing , For there shall be a little sport , and she hath sent you her Ring . Robin took his mantle from his back , it was of the Lincolne green , And sent that by this lovely Page , for a present unto the Queen . In Summer time when leaves grow green , it's a seemly sighed to see How Robin Hood himself had dressed , and all his Yeomanry . He clothed his mon in Lincolns green , and himself in Scarlet Read , Black hats , white feathers , all alike now bold Robin Hood is rid . And when he came at Londons Court , he fell down on his knee , Thou art welcome Locksly , said the Queen , and all thy good Yeomen three . The King is into Fensbury field marching in battle ray , And after fellows bold Robin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay . Come hither Tepus ( said the King ) down a down a down , bow bearer after me , down a down a down , Come measure mout with this line , how long our mark shall be . down a down a down . To second part , To the same tune . WHat is the wager said the Queen , that must I now know here ? Three hundred Tun of Rhenish wine , three hundred Tun of Beer . Three hundred of the fattest Hearts that ron on Dallom Lee. That's a Princely wager said the King , that needs must I tell thee . With that bespoke one Clifton then , down a down a down , fallen quickly and full soon , down a down a down , Measure no marks for us most Sovereign liege , wee'l shoot at Sun and Moon . down a down a down . Full fifteene score your mark shall be , full fifteene score shall stand : I'll lay my bow said Clifton then , I'll cleave the Willow wand . With that the Kings Archer led about , while it was three and none : With that the Ladies began to shout , Madam your game is gone . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries , I crave on my bore knee : Is there any knight of your privy counsel , of Queen Katherines part will be ? Come hither to me Sir Richard Lee , thou art a knight full good , For I do know by thy pedigree , thou sprung'st from Gowers blood . Come hither to me thou Bishop of Herefordshire , for a noble Priest was he ; By my silver Miter said the Bishop then , I'll not bet one penny . The King hath Archers of his own , full ready and full ligh And these be strangers every one , no man knows what they hight . What wilt thou bet said Robin Hood , thou seest our game the worse : By my silver Miter said the Bishop then , all my money within my Purse . What is in thy Purse said Robin Hood , throw it down on the ground , Fifteen score nobles said the Bishop then , it's near and hundred pound . Robin Hood took his bag from his side , and threw it down on the green , William Scadlock went smiling away , I know who this money must win . With that the Kings Archers led about , while it was three and three , With that the Ladies gave a shout , Woodcock beware thy nee . It is three and three . Now said the King , the next three pay for all : Robin Hood went and whisper'd to the Queen the Kings part shall be but small . Robin Hood he led about , he shot it underhand : And Clifton with a baring Arrow , he clove the willow wand . And little Midge the Millers Son , he shot not much the worse , He shot within a finger of the prick , now Bishop beware thy purse . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cried , I crave that on my bore knee , That you will angry be with none that is of my party . They shall have forty days to come , and forty days to go , And three times forty to sport and play , then welcome friend or foe . Then thou art welcome Robin Hood said the Queen , and so is little John , So is Midge the Millers Son , thrice welcome every one . Is this Robin Hood now said the King ? for it was so told to me , That he was slain in Palace gates , so far in the North Country . Is this Robin Hood said the Bishop then , as I see well to be ? Had I known that had been that bold outlaw I would not bet one penny . He took me late one Saturday at night , and bound me fast to a tree , And made me sing a mass , God wot , to him and his Yeomen three . What and if I did says Robin Hood , of that mass I was feign , For recompense to thee he says , here's half thy gold again . Now nay , now nay , says little John , down a down a down , master that shall not be , down a down a down , we must give gifts to the Kings Officers , that gold will serve thee and me . down a down a down . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis-Grove . 