The woeful lamentation of Edward Smith , a poor penitent prisoner in the Jail of Bedford , which he wrote a short time before his death . To the tune of , Dainty come thou to me . I Am a Prisoner poor Oppressed with misery : Oh Lord do thou restore , that faith which wants in me . In woe I wail and weep , In gripping grief I cry , In dungeon dark and deep , In fetters fast I lie Sighing I fit and moan My foul offences all , My loathsome life is known , which makes me live in thrall Ned [ S ] mith I am , the wight In prison that remains , Tormented day and night , with bans and iron chains . My joys are turned to nought , My hope's are worn away , My wickedness hath wrought my downfall and decay . Those gifts that God gave me , My wants for to supply , Abused much I have . to please my fantasy . My name I did deny , In Baptism given me , That Sacrament whereby regenerate I should be . No wit nor strength may serve The Law to satisfy : For death I do deserve , in right and equity . For I offended have Nobles of high degree , What favour can I crave for life or liberty . But hope of life is past , My acts so heinous be . And liberty is lost , till death do set me free . All men both old and young Which are at liberty , And hear my doleful song . example take by me . Be true and trust in God , Fly theft and vice eschew , Lest Gods most heavy rod , correct your deeds untrue . Would I had never been born To do such wicked deeds , Which makes me live in scorn and shame that soar exceeds . But that which passed is , I cannot now recall : My sins and my amiss , Oh Lord forgive them all . Woe worth ill company , Fie on that filthy crew : Accursed the day may be that ever I them knew . If life and death were set Before me for to chosen , Though I might pardon get , my life first would I loose , Then run that wicked raze , And do as I have done , Sweet Jesus give me grace , that life so lewd to shun . Farewell my loving wife Who sought to turn my mind , And make me mend my life , thy words full true I find . Farewell my children all , My tender Babes adue : Let this your Father's fallen , be warning good for you . Dear wife and infants three , Serve God remember this , That you true subject's be , though I have done amiss . Farewell my music sweet , And Cittorn silver found , Mourning for me is meet my sins do so abound . O Lord on bent knees And hands lift up on high , Cast on me gracious eyes with grace my wants supply Lay not unto my charge , The things that I have done , Though I have run at large . and played the unthrift son . Yet now I do repent , And humbly come to thee My sins I do lament , sweet Jesus comfort me . O Lord I do Lament , And only joy in thee , To praise thee day and night , for thou redeemedst me . Lord save our royal King Whose prisoner poor am I , Prolong his days on earth , with fame and victory . Against his Majesty , I have offended soar , Committing Felony , and now I die therefore . A doleful death God knows , Which once I did defy : Thus must I end my woes which I take patiently , By thee Oh Saviour sweet , In heaven I hope to rest , In joy where I shall meet , those souls whom thou hast blessed Where we shall sing thy praise , Oh God , with voice high , When I shall end my days , and live eternally . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . The woeful lamentation of Edward Smith , a poor penitent prisoner in the Jail of Bedford , which he wrote a short time before his death . To the tune of , Dainty come thou to me . I Am a Prisoner poor Oppressed with misery : Oh Lord do thou restore , that faith which wants in me . In woe I wail and weep , In gripping grief I cry , In dungeon dark and deep , In fetters fast I lie Sighing I fit and moan My foul offences all , My loathsome life is known , which makes me live in thrall Ned [ S ] mith I am , the wight In prison that remains , Tormented day and night , with bans and iron chains . My joys are turned to nought , My hope's are worn away , My wickedness hath wrought my downfall and decay . Those gifts that God gave me , My wants for to supply , Abused much I have . to please my fantasy . My name I did deny , In Baptism given me , That Sacrament whereby regenerate I should be . No wit nor strength may serve The Law to satisfy : For death I do deserve , in right and equity . For I offended have Nobles of high degree , What favour can I crave for life or liberty . But hope of life is past , My acts so heinous be . And liberty is lost , till death do set me free . All men both old and young Which are at liberty , And hear my doleful song . example take by me . Be true and trust in God , Fly theft and vice eschew , Lest Gods most heavy rod , correct your deeds untrue . Would I had never been born To do such wicked deeds , Which makes me live in scorn and shame that soar exceeds . But that which passed is , I cannot now recall : My sins and my amiss , Oh Lord forgive them all . Woe worth ill company , Fie on that filthy crew : Accursed the day may be that ever I them knew . If life and death were set Before me for to chosen , Though I might pardon get , my life first would I loose , Then run that wicked raze , And do as I have done , Sweet Jesus give me grace , that life so lewd to shun . Farewell my loving wife Who sought to turn my mind , And make me mend my life , thy words full true I find . Farewell my children all , My tender Babes adue : Let this your Father's fallen , be warning good for you . Dear wife and infants three , Serve God remember this , That you true subject's be , though I have done amiss . Farewell my music sweet , And Cittorn silver found , Mourning for me is meet my sins do so abound . O Lord on bent knees And hands lift up on high , Cast on me gracious eyes with grace my wants supply Lay not unto my charge , The things that I have done , Though I have run at large . and played the unthrift son . Yet now I do repent , And humbly come to thee My sins I do lament , sweet Jesus comfort me . O Lord I do Lament , And only joy in thee , To praise thee day and night , for thou redeemedst me . Lord save our royal King Whose prisoner poor am I , Prolong his days on earth , with fame and victory . Against his Majesty , I have offended soar , Committing Felony , and now I die therefore . A doleful death God knows , Which once I did defy : Thus must I end my woes which I take patiently , By thee Oh Saviour sweet , In heaven I hope to rest , In joy where I shall meet , those souls whom thou hast blessed Where we shall sing thy praise , Oh God , with voice high , When I shall end my days , and live eternally . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . 