A pleasant new Song betwixt the Sailor and his Love . To the tune of Dulcina . WHat does ail my Love , so sadly in such heavy dumps to stand ? Does she grieve or take unkindly , that I am so near at hand ? Or does she vow , she will not know , Nor speak to me when I do come , If that be so , Away I'll go : First kiss , and bid me welcome home . Had I ever thee forsaken , putting thee out of my mind , Thou then mightest have justly spoken , that I was to thee unkind ; Or should I take Some other mate , Then mightest thou have just cause to mourn : But let me die , Before that I Do so , then bid me welcome home . Sooner shall the grass leave growing , from the Hare the Hound shall run ; Husbandmen shalt leave their sowing , floods shall run the land upon , The fish shall fly , The Sea run dry . The Birds no more shall sing , but mourn , Ere I of thee Unmindful be : Then kiss , and bid me welcome home . Smile on me , be not offended , pardon grant for my amiss : Let thy favour so befriend me , as to seal it with a kiss . To me I swear , Thou art so deer , That for thy sake I'll fancy none ; Then do not frown , But fit thee down , Sweet , kiss and bid me welcome home . If thou hast proved chaste Diana , since from thee I did depart , I as constant have been to thee , for on thee fixed was my heart , No not for she Jupiter see , Danae in her Tower alone , Should me entice , No , I'll be nice , Then kiss , and bid me welcome home . No nor Venus , Cupids mother , nor the fairest wife of Jove , Should Lucrecia or some other seek by gifts to win my love , Should Hellen fair , To me repair , And unto me for love make moan , Yet none of these My mind shall please , Then kiss , and bid me welcome home . The second part . To the same Tune . FRom thy sighed though I was banish't , yet I always was to thee , Far more kind then was Ulisses , to his chaste Penelope : For why away He once did stay Ten years and left her all alone , But I from thee , Have not been three , Sweet , kiss and bid me welcome home . Come sweet heart , come fit down by me and let thy lap my pillow be , While sweet sleep my mind beguileth , all my dreams shall be on thee . I pray thee stay , steal not away Let lullaby be all my song ; With kisses sweet , Lull me asleep , And say , sweetheart thou'rt welcome home The woman's answer . I have been sad to see how from me , thou so long from me didst stay , Yet now I more rejoice to see thee , happily arriv'd this day . Thou from our shore shalt go no more , To wander thus abroad alone , But thou shalt stay , With me always , For heer's my hand thou'rt welcome home . I have prov'd Diana to thee , since from me thou wentest away , I have had suitors well nigh twenty , and much ado had for to stay : But I denied , When they replied , And sent them all away in scorn , For I had sworn , To live forlorn , Until that I see thee come home . Seeing thou art home arrived thou shalt not go away in haste , But lovingly come fit down by me , let thine arms embrace my waste . Farewell annoy , Welcome my Joy ; Now lullaby is all my song , For now my heart , Sings loath to part , Then kiss , sweetheart , thou'rt welcome home , Since sweetheart , thou dost befriend me thus to take me to thy love . Never more will I offend thee , but will ever constant prove , Thou hast my heart Not to depart , But ever constant to remain , And thou hast mine , And I am thine , Then let us kiss and welcome home . FINIS . London printed for P. C. dwelling in the Old-Baily . A pleasant new Song betwixt the Sailor and his Love . To the tune of Dulcina . WHat does ail my Love , so sadly in such heavy dumps to stand ? Does she grieve or take unkindly , that I am so near at hand ? Or does she vow , she will not know , Nor speak to me when I do come , If that be so , Away I'll go : First kiss , and bid me welcome home . Had I ever thee forsaken , putting thee out of my mind , Thou then mightest have justly spoken , that I was to thee unkind ; Or should I take Some other mate , Then mightest thou have just cause to mourn : But let me die , Before that I Do so , then bid me welcome home . Sooner shall the grass leave growing , from the Hare the Hound shall run ; Husbandmen shalt leave their sowing , floods shall run the land upon , The fish shall fly , The Sea run dry . The Birds no more shall sing , but mourn , Ere I of thee Unmindful be : Then kiss , and bid me welcome home . Smile on me , be not offended , pardon grant for my amiss : Let thy favour so befriend me , as to seal it with a kiss . To me I swear , Thou art so deer , That for thy sake I'll fancy none ; Then do not frown , But fit thee down , Sweet , kiss and bid me welcome home . If thou hast proved chaste Diana , since from thee I did depart , I as constant have been to thee , for on thee fixed was my heart , No not for she Jupiter see , Danae in her Tower alone , Should me entice , No , I'll be nice , Then kiss , and bid me welcome home . No nor Venus , Cupids mother , nor the fairest wife of Jove , Should Lucrecia or some other seek by gifts to win my love , Should Hellen fair , To me repair , And unto me for love make moan , Yet none of these My mind shall please , Then kiss , and bid me welcome home . The second part . To the same Tune . FRom thy sighed though I was banish't , yet I always was to thee , Far more kind then was Ulisses , to his chaste Penelope : For why away He once did stay Ten years and left her all alone , But I from thee , Have not been three , Sweet , kiss and bid me welcome home . Come sweet heart , come fit down by me and let thy lap my pillow be , While sweet sleep my mind beguileth , all my dreams shall be on thee . I pray thee stay , steal not away Let lullaby be all my song ; With kisses sweet , Lull me asleep , And say , sweetheart thou'rt welcome home The woman's answer . I have been sad to see how from me , thou so long from me didst stay , Yet now I more rejoice to see thee , happily arriv'd this day . Thou from our shore shalt go no more , To wander thus abroad alone , But thou shalt stay , With me always , For heer's my hand thou'rt welcome home . I have prov'd Diana to thee , since from me thou wentest away , I have had suitors well nigh twenty , and much ado had for to stay : But I denied , When they replied , And sent them all away in scorn , For I had sworn , To live forlorn , Until that I see thee come home . Seeing thou art home arrived thou shalt not go away in haste , But lovingly come fit down by me , let thine arms embrace my waste . Farewell annoy , Welcome my Joy ; Now lullaby is all my song , For now my heart , Sings loath to part , Then kiss , sweetheart , thou'rt welcome home , Since sweetheart , thou dost befriend me thus to take me to thy love . Never more will I offend thee , but will ever constant prove , Thou hast my heart Not to depart , But ever constant to remain , And thou hast mine , And I am thine , Then let us kiss and welcome home . FINIS . London printed for P. C. dwelling in the Old-Baily . 