Robin Hood and the Bishop : SHOWING How Robin Hood went to and Old Woman's House and changed Clothes with her to escape from the Bishop ; and how he robbed him of all his Gold , and made him sing Mass. To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stranger , etc COme Gentlemen all and listen a while , with a heigh down , down and a down , And a Story I'll to you unfold ; I'll tell to you how Robin Hood served the Bishop , when he robb'd him of his Gold : As it fell out of a Sun-shininy day , with a heigh , etc When Phebus was in her prime , b [ oh ] ld Robin Hood , that Archer good , In Mirth would spend some time : And as he walked the Forest along , with heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy , there was aware of a proud Bishop , And all his Company . O what shall I do , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc If the Bishop he does take me , no mercy he'll show unto me I know , But hanged shall I be . When Robin was stout , and turn'd him about , with a heigh , etc And a little House there did he spy , and to and old Wife , to save his Life , He aloud began to cry . Why , who art thou ? said the old Woman , with a heigh , etc Come tell it to me for good ? I am and Outlaw , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . And yonders the Bishop and all his Men , with a heigh , etc And if that I taken be , then day and night he'll work my spite , And hanged shall I be . If thou be Robin Hood , then said the old Woman , with a heigh , etc As thou dost seem to be , I'll for thee provide , and thee I will hide , From the Bishop and his Company . For I remember one Saturday night , with a heigh , etc Thou brought me both shoes and hose , therefore I'll provide , thy Person to hide , And keep thee from thy Foes . Then give me soon thy Coat of Grey , with a heigh , etc And take thou the Mantle of Green , thy Spindle and Twine , unto me resign , And take thou my Arrows so keen . And when that Robin Hood was thus array'd , with a heigh , etc He went straight to his Company , with his Spindle and Twine , he oft looked behind . For the Bishop and his Company . O who is yonder , quoth little John , with a heigh , etc That now comes over the Lee ? and arrow at her I will let fly , So like and old Witch looks she . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin then , with a heigh , etc And shoot not thy arrows so keen , I am Robin Hood , thy Master good , And quickly it shall be seen . The Bishop he came to the old Woman's house , with a heigh , etc And he called with furious mood , Come let me soon see , and bring unto me That Traitor Robin Hood . The old Woman he set on a milkwhite Steed , with a heigh , etc Himself on a dapple Gray , and for joy he had god Robin Hood , He went laughing all the way . But as they were riding the Forest along , with a heigh , etc The Bishop he chanc'd for to see , a hundred brave Bowmen bold , Stand under the green-Wood tree . O who his yonder , the Bishop then said , with a heigh , etc That's ranging within yonder Wood ? marry , says the old Woman , I think it to be [ ? ] Man called Robin Hood . Why , who art thou , the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc Which I have here with me ? Why I am a Woman , thou cuckoldly Bishop , Lift up my Leg and see . Then woe is me , the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc That ever I saw this day ; he turn'd him about , but Robin Hood so stood , Call'd to him and bid him stay . Then Robin took hold of the Bishop's horse , with a heigh , etc And ty'd him fast to a tree , then little John smill'd his Master upon , For joy of this Company . Robin Hood took his Mantle from's back , with a heigh , etc And spread it upon the ground , and out of the Bishop's Portmantle he Soon told five hundred pound . Now let him go , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc Said little John , That may not be , for I vow and protest he shall sing us a Mass , Before that he go from me . Then Robin Hood took the Bishop by th' hand , with a heigh , etc And bound him fast to a tree , and made him sing a Mass God-wot , To him and his Yeomanry . And when they brought him through the Wood , with a heigh down , down and a down And set him on his dapple Gray , and gave the tail within his hand , And bade him for Robin Hood pray . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Bookseller of Pie-corner and London-bridge Robin Hood and the Bishop : SHOWING How Robin Hood went to and Old Woman's House and changed Clothes with her to escape from the Bishop ; and how he robbed him of all his Gold , and made him sing Mass. To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stranger , etc COme Gentlemen all and listen a while , with a heigh down , down and a down , And a Story I'll to you unfold ; I'll tell to you how Robin Hood served the Bishop , when he robb'd him of his Gold : As it fell out of a Sun-shininy day , with a heigh , etc When Phebus was in her prime , b [ oh ] ld Robin Hood , that Archer good , In Mirth would spend some time : And as he walked the Forest along , with heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy , there was aware of a proud Bishop , And all his Company . O what shall I do , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc If the Bishop he does take me , no mercy he'll show unto me I know , But hanged shall I be . When Robin was stout , and turn'd him about , with a heigh , etc And a little House there did he spy , and to and old Wife , to save his Life , He aloud began to cry . Why , who art thou ? said the old Woman , with a heigh , etc Come tell it to me for good ? I am and Outlaw , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . And yonders the Bishop and all his Men , with a heigh , etc And if that I taken be , then day and night he'll work my spite , And hanged shall I be . If thou be Robin Hood , then said the old Woman , with a heigh , etc As thou dost seem to be , I'll for thee provide , and thee I will hide , From the Bishop and his Company . For I remember one Saturday night , with a heigh , etc Thou brought me both shoes and hose , therefore I'll provide , thy Person to hide , And keep thee from thy Foes . Then give me soon thy Coat of Grey , with a heigh , etc And take thou the Mantle of Green , thy Spindle and Twine , unto me resign , And take thou my Arrows so keen . And when that Robin Hood was thus array'd , with a heigh , etc He went straight to his Company , with his Spindle and Twine , he oft looked behind . For the Bishop and his Company . O who is yonder , quoth little John , with a heigh , etc That now comes over the Lee ? and arrow at her I will let fly , So like and old Witch looks she . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin then , with a heigh , etc And shoot not thy arrows so keen , I am Robin Hood , thy Master good , And quickly it shall be seen . The Bishop he came to the old Woman's house , with a heigh , etc And he called with furious mood , Come let me soon see , and bring unto me That Traitor Robin Hood . The old Woman he set on a milkwhite Steed , with a heigh , etc Himself on a dapple Gray , and for joy he had god Robin Hood , He went laughing all the way . But as they were riding the Forest along , with a heigh , etc The Bishop he chanc'd for to see , a hundred brave Bowmen bold , Stand under the green-Wood tree . O who his yonder , the Bishop then said , with a heigh , etc That's ranging within yonder Wood ? marry , says the old Woman , I think it to be [ ? ] Man called Robin Hood . Why , who art thou , the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc Which I have here with me ? Why I am a Woman , thou cuckoldly Bishop , Lift up my Leg and see . Then woe is me , the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc That ever I saw this day ; he turn'd him about , but Robin Hood so stood , Call'd to him and bid him stay . Then Robin took hold of the Bishop's horse , with a heigh , etc And ty'd him fast to a tree , then little John smill'd his Master upon , For joy of this Company . Robin Hood took his Mantle from's back , with a heigh , etc And spread it upon the ground , and out of the Bishop's Portmantle he Soon told five hundred pound . Now let him go , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc Said little John , That may not be , for I vow and protest he shall sing us a Mass , Before that he go from me . Then Robin Hood took the Bishop by th' hand , with a heigh , etc And bound him fast to a tree , and made him sing a Mass God-wot , To him and his Yeomanry . And when they brought him through the Wood , with a heigh down , down and a down And set him on his dapple Gray , and gave the tail within his hand , And bade him for Robin Hood pray . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Bookseller of Pie-corner and London-bridge 