A most excellent and famous Ditty of Sampson Judge of Israel , how he wedded Philistines Daughter , who at length forsook him : also how he slew a Lion , and propon - dead a Riddle , and after how he was falsely betrayed by Dalila , and of his death . To the tune of the Spanish pavin . WHen Sampson was a tall young man His power and strength increased than And in the host and Tribe of Dan , the Lord did bless him still . It chanced so upon a day , As he was walking on his way , He saw a Maiden fresh and gay in Timnah . With whom he fell so soar in love , That he his fancy could not move : His Parents therefore he did prove , and craved their good wills . I have found out a wife quoth he , I pray you Father give her me , Though she a strangers daughter be , I pass not . Then did bespeak his Parents deer , Have we not many Maidens here , Of Country , and acquaintance near , for thee to love and like : Oh no , ( quoth Sampson presently ) Not one so pleasant in mine eye , Whom I could find so faithfully to fancy . At length they granted their consen And so with Sampson forth they went , To see the Maid was their intent . which was so fair and brigh But as they were a going there , A Lion put them in great fear , Whom Sompson presently did tear , in pieces . When they were come unto the place , They were agreed in the case : The wedding day appointed was : and when the time was come . As Sampson went for beauty's fees , The Lyons carcase there he sees , Wherein a sort of honey bees had swarmed . Then closely Sampson went his way , And not a word thereof did say , Until the merry feasting day , unto the Company . A Riddle I will show , quoth he , The meaning if you tell to me Within seaven days , I will give ye great riches . But if the meaning you do miss , And cannot show me what it is , Then shall you give to me ( I wiss ) so much as I have said . Put forth the Riddle ( then quoth they ) And we will tell it by our day , Or we will loose ( as thou dost say ) the wager . Then make ( quoth he ) the total summer Out of the eater meat did come , And from the strong did sweetness run , declare it if you can . And when they herd the Riddle told , Their hearts within them waxed cold : For none of them could then unfold the meaning . Then unto Sampsons wife went they And theatned her with delay , If she would not the the thing bewray , to burn her Father's house . Then Sampsons wife with grief and woe Desired him the same to show : And when she knew she straight did go to tell them . Then were they all full glad of this , To tell the thing they did not miss , What stronger beast then Lion is ? What sweeter meat then honey : The [ n ] Sampson answered them full round : If my Hayfar had not ploughed the ground , So easily you had not found my Riddle . Then Sampson did his losses pay , And to his father went his way , But wished with them he there did stay , his wife forsook him quite , And took another to her Love , Which Sampsons anger much did move , To plague them therefore he did prove his cunning . A subtle sighed he then had found , To burn their corn upon the ground , Their Vineyards he destroyed round which made them fret and fume . But when they knew that Sampson he Had done them all this injury , Because his wife did him deny , they killed her . And afterwards they had decreed , To murder Sampson for that deed , Three thousand men they sent with speed to bring him bound to them : But he did break his cords apace , And with the Jawbone of and Ass , A thousand men ere he did pass , he killed . When all his foes were laid in dust , Then Sampson was ful' soar athirst , In God therefore was all his trust , to help his fainting hear For liquour thereabouts was none : The Lord therefore from the Jawbone , Did make fresh water spring alone . to help him . Then Sampson had a joyful spright ; And in a City lay that nigh , Whereas his foes with deadly spite ; did seek his life to spill : But he at midnight then awakes , And tearing down the City gates With him away the same he takes , most stoutly . Then on Dalila fair and bright , Did Sampson set his whole delight , Whom he did love both day and night , which wrought his overthrow : For she with sweet words did entreat , That for her sake he would repeat , Wherein his strength , that was so great , consisted . At length unto his utter fallen , And through her suit , which was not small He did not let to show her all , the secrets of his hear If that my hair be cut , ( quoth he ) Which now so fair and long you see , Likes other men then shall I be , in weekenesse . Then through deceit which was so deep , She lulled Sampson fast asleep , A man she called which she did keep , to cut off all his hair . Then did she call his hateful foes , Ere Sampson from her lap arose , Who could not then withstand their blows for weakness . To bind him fast they did devise , Then did they put out both his eyes , In prison woefully he lies , and there he grinds the Mill. But God remembered all his pain , And did restore his strength again , Although that bound he did remain , in prison . The Philistines now were glad of this , For joy they made a feast ( I wiss ) And all their Princes did not miss to come unto the same : And being merry bent that day , For Sampson they did send stratghtway , That they might laugh to see him play , among them . Then to house was Sampson led And when he had their fancies fed , He plucked the house upon their head , and down they tumbled all : So that with grief and deadly pain , Three thousand persons there was slain , Thus Sampson then with all his train , was brained . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . A most excellent and famous Ditty of Sampson Judge of Israel , how he wedded Philistines Daughter , who at length forsook him : also how he slew a Lion , and propon - dead a Riddle , and after how he was falsely betrayed by Dalila , and of his death . To the tune of the Spanish pavin . WHen Sampson was a tall young man His power and strength increased than And in the host and Tribe of Dan , the Lord did bless him still . It chanced so upon a day , As he was walking on his way , He saw a Maiden fresh and gay in Timnah . With whom he fell so soar in love , That he his fancy could not move : His Parents therefore he did prove , and craved their good wills . I have found out a wife quoth he , I pray you Father give her me , Though she a strangers daughter be , I pass not . Then did bespeak his Parents deer , Have we not many Maidens here , Of Country , and acquaintance near , for thee to love and like : Oh no , ( quoth Sampson presently ) Not one so pleasant in mine eye , Whom I could find so faithfully to fancy . At length they granted their consen And so with Sampson forth they went , To see the Maid was their intent . which was so fair and brigh But as they were a going there , A Lion put them in great fear , Whom Sompson presently did tear , in pieces . When they were come unto the place , They were agreed in the case : The wedding day appointed was : and when the time was come . As Sampson went for beauty's fees , The Lyons carcase there he sees , Wherein a sort of honey bees had swarmed . Then closely Sampson went his way , And not a word thereof did say , Until the merry feasting day , unto the Company . A Riddle I will show , quoth he , The meaning if you tell to me Within seaven days , I will give ye great riches . But if the meaning you do miss , And cannot show me what it is , Then shall you give to me ( I wiss ) so much as I have said . Put forth the Riddle ( then quoth they ) And we will tell it by our day , Or we will loose ( as thou dost say ) the wager . Then make ( quoth he ) the total summer Out of the eater meat did come , And from the strong did sweetness run , declare it if you can . And when they herd the Riddle told , Their hearts within them waxed cold : For none of them could then unfold the meaning . Then unto Sampsons wife went they And theatned her with delay , If she would not the the thing bewray , to burn her Father's house . Then Sampsons wife with grief and woe Desired him the same to show : And when she knew she straight did go to tell them . Then were they all full glad of this , To tell the thing they did not miss , What stronger beast then Lion is ? What sweeter meat then honey : The [ n ] Sampson answered them full round : If my Hayfar had not ploughed the ground , So easily you had not found my Riddle . Then Sampson did his losses pay , And to his father went his way , But wished with them he there did stay , his wife forsook him quite , And took another to her Love , Which Sampsons anger much did move , To plague them therefore he did prove his cunning . A subtle sighed he then had found , To burn their corn upon the ground , Their Vineyards he destroyed round which made them fret and fume . But when they knew that Sampson he Had done them all this injury , Because his wife did him deny , they killed her . And afterwards they had decreed , To murder Sampson for that deed , Three thousand men they sent with speed to bring him bound to them : But he did break his cords apace , And with the Jawbone of and Ass , A thousand men ere he did pass , he killed . When all his foes were laid in dust , Then Sampson was ful' soar athirst , In God therefore was all his trust , to help his fainting hear For liquour thereabouts was none : The Lord therefore from the Jawbone , Did make fresh water spring alone . to help him . Then Sampson had a joyful spright ; And in a City lay that nigh , Whereas his foes with deadly spite ; did seek his life to spill : But he at midnight then awakes , And tearing down the City gates With him away the same he takes , most stoutly . Then on Dalila fair and bright , Did Sampson set his whole delight , Whom he did love both day and night , which wrought his overthrow : For she with sweet words did entreat , That for her sake he would repeat , Wherein his strength , that was so great , consisted . At length unto his utter fallen , And through her suit , which was not small He did not let to show her all , the secrets of his hear If that my hair be cut , ( quoth he ) Which now so fair and long you see , Likes other men then shall I be , in weekenesse . Then through deceit which was so deep , She lulled Sampson fast asleep , A man she called which she did keep , to cut off all his hair . Then did she call his hateful foes , Ere Sampson from her lap arose , Who could not then withstand their blows for weakness . To bind him fast they did devise , Then did they put out both his eyes , In prison woefully he lies , and there he grinds the Mill. But God remembered all his pain , And did restore his strength again , Although that bound he did remain , in prison . The Philistines now were glad of this , For joy they made a feast ( I wiss ) And all their Princes did not miss to come unto the same : And being merry bent that day , For Sampson they did send stratghtway , That they might laugh to see him play , among them . Then to house was Sampson led And when he had their fancies fed , He plucked the house upon their head , and down they tumbled all : So that with grief and deadly pain , Three thousand persons there was slain , Thus Sampson then with all his train , was brained . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 