The Sinners Redemption . Wherein is described the blessed Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ , toga - there with his life on earth , and his precious death on the Cross for Mankind . To the tune of , The bleeding heart . Or , In Creet , etc ALL you that are to mirth inclin'd , Consider well , and bear in mind , What our good God hath for us done , In sending his beloved Son , For to redeem our souls from thrall , This was the Saviour of us all . Let all our songs of praises be Unto his heavenly Majesty , And evermore among your mirth , Remember Christ our Saviours birth The five and twentieth of December , Good cause have we for to remember , In Bethelem upon that morn , There was our blessed Messias born . The night before that happy tide , The spotless Virgin and her Guide , Went long time seeking up and down To find their lodging in the town . But mark how all things came to pass The Inns and lodgings so fill'd was , That they could have no room at all , But in a silly Ox his stall . This night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe delivered of a Child , According unto heavens decree , men sweet salvation for to be . Near Bethelem did Shepherds keep , Their herds and flocks of feeding sheep To them Gods Angels did appear , Which put the shepherds in great fear Prepare and go the Angel said , To Bethelem , be not afraid , There shall you find this blessed morn The Princely Babe sweet Jesus born . With thankful heart and joyful mind , The shepherds went the Babe to find , And as the heavenly Angel told , They did our Saviour Christ behold . Within a manger was he laid , The Virgin Marry by him stayed , Attending on the Lord of life , Being both Mother , Maid , and Wife . Three Eastern Wise men from afar , Directed by a glorious star , Came boldly on and made no stay , Until they came where Jesus lay . And being come into the place , Whereas the blessed Messias was , They humbly laid before his feet , Their gifts of gold and odours sweet See how the Lord of heaven and earth , Shew'd himself lowly in his birth . A sweet example for Mankind To learn to bear and humble mind . The second part , To the same tune . NO costly robes nor rich attire , Did Jesus Christ our Lord desire , No music nor sweet harmony , Till glorious Angels from on high , Did in melodious manner sing Praises unto our heavenly King , All Honour , Glory , Might and Power , Be unto Christ for evermore . If quires of Angels did rejoice , Well may Mankind with heart & voice Sing praises to the God of Heaven , That unto us his Son hath given . Moreover let us every one , Call unto mind and think upon His righteous life , and how he dy'd To have poor sinners justifi'd . Suppose Oh man that thou shouldst lie In prison strong condemn'd to die , And that no friend upon the earth , Could ransom thee from cruel death : Except thou canst some party find , That for thy sake will be so kind , His own hearts blood for to dispense , And loose his life in thy defence : Such was the love of Christ when we Were lost to hell perpetually , To save us from the gulf of woe , Himself much pains did undergo . While in this world he did remain , He never spent and hour in vain , In fasting and in prayer divine , He daily spent away his time . He in their Temples daily taught , And many wonders strange he wrough He gave the blind their perfect sighed , And made the lame to go upright . He cur'd the Lepers of their evils , And by his power he cast out devils , He raised Lazarus from the grave , And to the sick their health he gave . But yet for all these wonders wrough The Jews his dear destruction sought The traitor Judas was the man , That with a kiss betray'd him than . Then was he led to judgement hall , Like one despis'd among them all , And had the sentence given , that he Should suffer death upon a tree . Unto his execution place , They brought him on with much disgrace , With vile reproachful taunts & scorns They crown'd him with a wreathe of thorns . Then to the cross through hands & feet , They nayl'd our blessed Redeemer sweet , And further to augment his smart . With bloody spear they pierc'd his heart Thus have you seen and herd aright , The love of Christ , the Lord of Might , And how he shed his preciorus blood , Only to do us sinners good : And to redeem our souls from thrall , This was the Saviour of us all . FINIS . The Sinners Redemption . Wherein is described the blessed Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ , toga - there with his life on earth , and his precious death on the Cross for Mankind . To the tune of , The bleeding heart . Or , In Creet , etc ALL you that are to mirth inclin'd , Consider well , and bear in mind , What our good God hath for us done , In sending his beloved Son , For to redeem our souls from thrall , This was the Saviour of us all . Let all our songs of praises be Unto his heavenly Majesty , And evermore among your mirth , Remember Christ our Saviours birth The five and twentieth of December , Good cause have we for to remember , In Bethelem upon that morn , There was our blessed Messias born . The night before that happy tide , The spotless Virgin and her Guide , Went long time seeking up and down To find their lodging in the town . But mark how all things came to pass The Inns and lodgings so fill'd was , That they could have no room at all , But in a silly Ox his stall . This night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe delivered of a Child , According unto heavens decree , men sweet salvation for to be . Near Bethelem did Shepherds keep , Their herds and flocks of feeding sheep To them Gods Angels did appear , Which put the shepherds in great fear Prepare and go the Angel said , To Bethelem , be not afraid , There shall you find this blessed morn The Princely Babe sweet Jesus born . With thankful heart and joyful mind , The shepherds went the Babe to find , And as the heavenly Angel told , They did our Saviour Christ behold . Within a manger was he laid , The Virgin Marry by him stayed , Attending on the Lord of life , Being both Mother , Maid , and Wife . Three Eastern Wise men from afar , Directed by a glorious star , Came boldly on and made no stay , Until they came where Jesus lay . And being come into the place , Whereas the blessed Messias was , They humbly laid before his feet , Their gifts of gold and odours sweet See how the Lord of heaven and earth , Shew'd himself lowly in his birth . A sweet example for Mankind To learn to bear and humble mind . The second part , To the same tune . NO costly robes nor rich attire , Did Jesus Christ our Lord desire , No music nor sweet harmony , Till glorious Angels from on high , Did in melodious manner sing Praises unto our heavenly King , All Honour , Glory , Might and Power , Be unto Christ for evermore . If quires of Angels did rejoice , Well may Mankind with heart & voice Sing praises to the God of Heaven , That unto us his Son hath given . Moreover let us every one , Call unto mind and think upon His righteous life , and how he dy'd To have poor sinners justifi'd . Suppose Oh man that thou shouldst lie In prison strong condemn'd to die , And that no friend upon the earth , Could ransom thee from cruel death : Except thou canst some party find , That for thy sake will be so kind , His own hearts blood for to dispense , And loose his life in thy defence : Such was the love of Christ when we Were lost to hell perpetually , To save us from the gulf of woe , Himself much pains did undergo . While in this world he did remain , He never spent and hour in vain , In fasting and in prayer divine , He daily spent away his time . He in their Temples daily taught , And many wonders strange he wrough He gave the blind their perfect sighed , And made the lame to go upright . He cur'd the Lepers of their evils , And by his power he cast out devils , He raised Lazarus from the grave , And to the sick their health he gave . But yet for all these wonders wrough The Jews his dear destruction sought The traitor Judas was the man , That with a kiss betray'd him than . Then was he led to judgement hall , Like one despis'd among them all , And had the sentence given , that he Should suffer death upon a tree . Unto his execution place , They brought him on with much disgrace , With vile reproachful taunts & scorns They crown'd him with a wreathe of thorns . Then to the cross through hands & feet , They nayl'd our blessed Redeemer sweet , And further to augment his smart . With bloody spear they pierc'd his heart Thus have you seen and herd aright , The love of Christ , the Lord of Might , And how he shed his preciorus blood , Only to do us sinners good : And to redeem our souls from thrall , This was the Saviour of us all . FINIS . 