A new Ballad of the Soldier and Peggy - To a new Northern Tune . IT was a brave Soldier that long liv'd in wars , He would into England , to try his affairs , A brave gallant Creature , enchanted his eye : It is for thy love Peggy , I die , I die . She had a good Husband that loved Her well , For Gold and for money , none did her excel . Yet Peggy would listen to the Soldiers cry , It is for thy love Peggy , I die , I die . O pretty Peggy , let sorrows remove , And grant me a kiss in token of love : Oh take thee a thousand , on's but a few , I'll leave my own husband , to travel with you . O pretty Peggy , if thou wilt be mine , All the gold that I get , it shall be thine : Father and Mother , thouse never so mere , If thou wilt go over Sea with a Soldier . She took the keys from her side , to her chest she's gone , All the gold that she hath , with her she 'ath taken : She left the Babe Motherless , and the bed bore , And she is gone over sea with a Soldier . As Peggy and the Soldier , went over a plain , He twinked at her , she smiled again : He courted her bravely , as Youngmen should do , And ever said Peggy , I love none but you . As Peggy went up the street , so did she down , All that did meet her asked whither she was bound : She answered them quickly , she could not tell where , For she must go over sea with a soldier . Her Husband came home so late in the night , He asked for Peggy his joy and delight , They answer him quickly , they could not tell where , For she was gone over sea with a Soldier . The second part , to the same Tune . HE saddled his horse and road to the shore , Thinking to take Peggy , before she god over : He asked for Peggy , but she was not there , For she was gone over sea , with a Soldier . I pray thee good nurse be good to my child , And thouse have thy wages ; at every months end : Thouse neither want money , wine nor good cheer , Though Peggy be over sea , with a Soldier . He cursed the Carpenter that made the ship , And eke the Plummer , for plumming so deep : He banned the wind and the water so clear , That carried her over sea with a soldier She had not been over sea , passing months three , Ere she would come home again , if it might be . To speak with her husband , this matter to clear , Because she had been over sea with a soldier . This wanton lewd woman , is come home again , When all her pleasure , and coin it was spen She could no longer , in Ireland stay , For she had no gold nor money to pay . I pray you sweet husband , will you forgive me , And all that's amiss , amended shall be : I'll live with my husband , and Baby so deer , And I'll never go again ; with a soldier . Come hither sweet Peggy , thou art welcome to me , So all that's amiss amended may be . I pray God forgive my sins , and I'll forgive thee , If thou'l live at home , with thy Baby and me . All you good wives , that hear this my song , Live at home with your husbands and do them no wrong : For youth it is wanton , and will have a fling , And Peggy is at home with her husband again . And thus of my song , I will make and end , Praying for Gods favour , for women and men , Desiring them all in their Country to stay , And never to wander so vainly away . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Coules dwelling in the Old-Baily . A new Ballad of the Soldier and Peggy - To a new Northern Tune . IT was a brave Soldier that long liv'd in wars , He would into England , to try his affairs , A brave gallant Creature , enchanted his eye : It is for thy love Peggy , I die , I die . She had a good Husband that loved Her well , For Gold and for money , none did her excel . Yet Peggy would listen to the Soldiers cry , It is for thy love Peggy , I die , I die . O pretty Peggy , let sorrows remove , And grant me a kiss in token of love : Oh take thee a thousand , on's but a few , I'll leave my own husband , to travel with you . O pretty Peggy , if thou wilt be mine , All the gold that I get , it shall be thine : Father and Mother , thouse never so mere , If thou wilt go over Sea with a Soldier . She took the keys from her side , to her chest she's gone , All the gold that she hath , with her she 'ath taken : She left the Babe Motherless , and the bed bore , And she is gone over sea with a Soldier . As Peggy and the Soldier , went over a plain , He twinked at her , she smiled again : He courted her bravely , as Youngmen should do , And ever said Peggy , I love none but you . As Peggy went up the street , so did she down , All that did meet her asked whither she was bound : She answered them quickly , she could not tell where , For she must go over sea with a soldier . Her Husband came home so late in the night , He asked for Peggy his joy and delight , They answer him quickly , they could not tell where , For she was gone over sea with a Soldier . The second part , to the same Tune . HE saddled his horse and road to the shore , Thinking to take Peggy , before she god over : He asked for Peggy , but she was not there , For she was gone over sea , with a Soldier . I pray thee good nurse be good to my child , And thouse have thy wages ; at every months end : Thouse neither want money , wine nor good cheer , Though Peggy be over sea , with a Soldier . He cursed the Carpenter that made the ship , And eke the Plummer , for plumming so deep : He banned the wind and the water so clear , That carried her over sea with a soldier She had not been over sea , passing months three , Ere she would come home again , if it might be . To speak with her husband , this matter to clear , Because she had been over sea with a soldier . This wanton lewd woman , is come home again , When all her pleasure , and coin it was spen She could no longer , in Ireland stay , For she had no gold nor money to pay . I pray you sweet husband , will you forgive me , And all that's amiss , amended shall be : I'll live with my husband , and Baby so deer , And I'll never go again ; with a soldier . Come hither sweet Peggy , thou art welcome to me , So all that's amiss amended may be . I pray God forgive my sins , and I'll forgive thee , If thou'l live at home , with thy Baby and me . All you good wives , that hear this my song , Live at home with your husbands and do them no wrong : For youth it is wanton , and will have a fling , And Peggy is at home with her husband again . And thus of my song , I will make and end , Praying for Gods favour , for women and men , Desiring them all in their Country to stay , And never to wander so vainly away . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Coules dwelling in the Old-Baily . 