The Sinners supplication . Confessing his sins , and humbly craving pardon of the Lord : he hates the world , and desires to inhabit [ i ] n the heavenly Jerusalem : and the description thereof . To the tune of , Troy Town . O Gracious God and heavenly King , That rules and governs every thing , Whose power the heavens & earth do know , Behold me wretch oppressed with woe : Be thou my God in this distress , And ease me of my wickedness . O Lord , Lord for thy mercy now forgive me , come and receive me home . The terrors of this fea [ r ] full death , Which makes so many loose their breath , Do make me fear my part therein , For recompense of my great sin Oh Lord unto my voice give heed , And rid my life and soul from dread . O Lord ; Lord for thy mercy , etc Most gracious God now lend thine ear , Bow down thy self my cries to hear , Let not my words be spent in vain , But help me Lord now I complain . Be thou my rock my strength and stay , For thou hast promised help always . This grievous scourge which thou hast sent , Upon us for our chastisemen We must confess we have deserved , For from thy laws we all have swerved . Our sins have soar provoked thee , In wrath against us all to be . etc The sins of Sodome here do reign , And in our City do remain , Both old and young , both rich and poor , Do daily sin and vex thee soar : They swear and lie , they steal and kill , [ a ] and for old shoes the poor they fell , False beams and weights are daily used , Whereby full many are abused , And covetous Usurers by excess , Have brought a number to distress , They purchase daily house and ground , And racking rends the poor they wound . And I Oh Lord among the rest , Do yield that I have soar transgress But yet Oh Lord I thee desire , Not to rebuke me in thine ire . Bear not in mind my former ill , But frame me to thy holy will . I was conceived and born in since , And since I have most wicked been , Offending thee my gracious God , Whereby I have deserved thy rod , But now Oh Lord I do repent . Let me not feel thy punishment . My sins are set before mine eyes , My graceless oaths I do despise , My want of grace I do lament , And youthful time so vainly spent . Forgive me Lord for Christ his sake , And let thy wrath and anger slake . Vain world adue , thou flatterest man , I loath thee now , do what thou can : I yield my self most willingly Unto my God to live and die . For under his wings I plainly see , There is most safety for to be . The second part , To the same Tune . O where said David shall I fly , But God will there be presently ? There is no place to escape from God , If thou deserve to feel his rod . Thou man in thy vocation stay , And God will thee defend always . I with my self am now resolved , And with Saint Paul to be dissolved , From this Body of sin and mire , I do most earnestly desire , And with my Saviour Christ to be , To live with him eternally . My thirsty soul desires her draught , My poisoned mind would feign be out , From chains and fetters of the flesh , To live with him in happiness : She longs to come into the coast , Which she by Sathans wiles hath lost . From Egypt now I will return , Where cruel bondage makes me mourn , And eke from Babylon I would be , Released from captivity : To be in new Jerusalem , among the Saints to sing with them . This is the home which I do mean , That City new Jerusalem : Where many thousand Saints do sing Praises unto their heavenly King . Within that City there is peace , Continue's still and never cease . There is and everlasting spring , There birds do ever chirp and sing , There blustering winter never blows , It never freezeth there nor snows : Nor Summer's parching does not harm , The weather there is temperate warm . There pleasant Gardens ever keep , All sorts of Flowers ever swee The trees do blossom bud and bear The fruits are mellow all the year All sorts of plants both fresh and green , At all times there are to be seen . The gates of equal distance be , Most beautiful and fair to see : Bedecked with many precious stones , And wrought with burnished Ivory bones , The walls of Jasper richly built , The streets and houses pav'd and guilt . There pleasant Wine in rivers flows , Upon the banks the Sugar grows , Enclos'd in Redes of Cynamon , More sweeter than the honey comb : To see these sights and many more , Who would not covet there to go ? There is no need of Moon nor Sun , For there the day and night are one : No heart can think nor tongue can tell , The glorious sights for to excel . The dwellers there are crown'd with gold , Like Kings most glorious to behold . Like loving friends they live in bliss , Like spouses they the Bridegroom kiss , Their loving Lord and master deer , Who feasteth them with heavenly cheer , Oh God of heaven of thy good grace , Conduct us to that heavenly place . O Lord , Lord for thy mercy , now forgive me , come and receive me home . Printed at London for Henry Gosson , dwelling on London Bridge . The Sinners supplication . Confessing his sins , and humbly craving pardon of the Lord : he hates the world , and desires to inhabit [ i ] n the heavenly Jerusalem : and the description thereof . To the tune of , Troy Town . O Gracious God and heavenly King , That rules and governs every thing , Whose power the heavens & earth do know , Behold me wretch oppressed with woe : Be thou my God in this distress , And ease me of my wickedness . O Lord , Lord for thy mercy now forgive me , come and receive me home . The terrors of this fea [ r ] full death , Which makes so many loose their breath , Do make me fear my part therein , For recompense of my great sin Oh Lord unto my voice give heed , And rid my life and soul from dread . O Lord ; Lord for thy mercy , etc Most gracious God now lend thine ear , Bow down thy self my cries to hear , Let not my words be spent in vain , But help me Lord now I complain . Be thou my rock my strength and stay , For thou hast promised help always . This grievous scourge which thou hast sent , Upon us for our chastisemen We must confess we have deserved , For from thy laws we all have swerved . Our sins have soar provoked thee , In wrath against us all to be . etc The sins of Sodome here do reign , And in our City do remain , Both old and young , both rich and poor , Do daily sin and vex thee soar : They swear and lie , they steal and kill , [ a ] and for old shoes the poor they fell , False beams and weights are daily used , Whereby full many are abused , And covetous Usurers by excess , Have brought a number to distress , They purchase daily house and ground , And racking rends the poor they wound . And I Oh Lord among the rest , Do yield that I have soar transgress But yet Oh Lord I thee desire , Not to rebuke me in thine ire . Bear not in mind my former ill , But frame me to thy holy will . I was conceived and born in since , And since I have most wicked been , Offending thee my gracious God , Whereby I have deserved thy rod , But now Oh Lord I do repent . Let me not feel thy punishment . My sins are set before mine eyes , My graceless oaths I do despise , My want of grace I do lament , And youthful time so vainly spent . Forgive me Lord for Christ his sake , And let thy wrath and anger slake . Vain world adue , thou flatterest man , I loath thee now , do what thou can : I yield my self most willingly Unto my God to live and die . For under his wings I plainly see , There is most safety for to be . The second part , To the same Tune . O where said David shall I fly , But God will there be presently ? There is no place to escape from God , If thou deserve to feel his rod . Thou man in thy vocation stay , And God will thee defend always . I with my self am now resolved , And with Saint Paul to be dissolved , From this Body of sin and mire , I do most earnestly desire , And with my Saviour Christ to be , To live with him eternally . My thirsty soul desires her draught , My poisoned mind would feign be out , From chains and fetters of the flesh , To live with him in happiness : She longs to come into the coast , Which she by Sathans wiles hath lost . From Egypt now I will return , Where cruel bondage makes me mourn , And eke from Babylon I would be , Released from captivity : To be in new Jerusalem , among the Saints to sing with them . This is the home which I do mean , That City new Jerusalem : Where many thousand Saints do sing Praises unto their heavenly King . Within that City there is peace , Continue's still and never cease . There is and everlasting spring , There birds do ever chirp and sing , There blustering winter never blows , It never freezeth there nor snows : Nor Summer's parching does not harm , The weather there is temperate warm . There pleasant Gardens ever keep , All sorts of Flowers ever swee The trees do blossom bud and bear The fruits are mellow all the year All sorts of plants both fresh and green , At all times there are to be seen . The gates of equal distance be , Most beautiful and fair to see : Bedecked with many precious stones , And wrought with burnished Ivory bones , The walls of Jasper richly built , The streets and houses pav'd and guilt . There pleasant Wine in rivers flows , Upon the banks the Sugar grows , Enclos'd in Redes of Cynamon , More sweeter than the honey comb : To see these sights and many more , Who would not covet there to go ? There is no need of Moon nor Sun , For there the day and night are one : No heart can think nor tongue can tell , The glorious sights for to excel . The dwellers there are crown'd with gold , Like Kings most glorious to behold . Like loving friends they live in bliss , Like spouses they the Bridegroom kiss , Their loving Lord and master deer , Who feasteth them with heavenly cheer , Oh God of heaven of thy good grace , Conduct us to that heavenly place . O Lord , Lord for thy mercy , now forgive me , come and receive me home . Printed at London for Henry Gosson , dwelling on London Bridge . 