A Song made of Nothing . Yet he that does read , or hear it shall find , Something of nothing to pleasure his mind . To a dainty New tune . SOme men of nothing do matters endite . & some men of small things large volumes do write , But if you wilt give me leave I will recite A song made of nothing . He that has nothing may soonest spend all , And he that's exalted may have a downfall , And he that is weakest may go to the wall , But I will say nothing . He that presumeth a Gallant to be , And spends more in one year then he gets in three , Shall beg having wasted his Patrimony , But I will say nothing . He that has nothing , no credit shall have , Although he be virtuous , he's counted a knave , Among roaring Gallants that go fine and brave , Cause he can spend nothing . He that delights in Cards and in Dice , And spends his revenues in such idle vice , Shall meet with lewd company him to entice , Till he be worth nothing . He that hath nothing , with troubles beset , Will steal or do something a living to get . But if he be caught in the hangmans net , His life is worth nothing . He that hath nothing , can nothing possess , And he that hath little may look to have less , But much want and sorrow does daily oppress the man that hath nothing . He that will be a good husband indeed , That unto his business does go with good heed , Shall still have sufficient to serve him at need , And always want nothing . He that is married unto a good wife , Shall live in content all days of his life , But if man and woman be given to strife , They'll fallen out for nothing . He that is idle and will not take pains . But honest industry and labour disdains , When others true labours are quit with gains , Then he shall have nothing . The second part . To the same tune . HE that in Drunkenness takes his delight . To drink and to swagger , to brabble and fight He takes the wrong , and leaveth the right , But I will say nothing . He that in baseness his time does here spend , That never regards himself nor his friend , He stands in danger to have a bad end , But I will say nothing . He that takes pleasure to curse , ban and swear , With vain execrations his Maker to tear , The Lord in his wrath , if he do not forbear , will bring him to nothing . He that does ruffle it out in vain pride That weareth gay clothes a foul carcase to hide , And bears more on's back then he's worth beside , I'll trust him for nothing . He that delights to go to the Law , To sue for a trifle that's scarce worth a straw , May sue for a Woodcock . and catch a Jack-Daw For all comes to nothing . He that his time still carelessly spends , And hope's to be rich by the death of his friends , The pillar whereon all his hope still depends , Perhaps comes to nothing . He that deferreth amendment to 'th last , And seeks not to thrive till all remedie's past , If he through his folly behind hand be cast , His hope's are worth not [ thy ] ng . He that lives uprightly in his vocation , And on the distressed hath commiseration , That man rightly merits a good commendation He's guilty in nothing . He that with usury does money beget , And loves that young spendthrifts should be in his debt The Devil at last will drag him in's net But I will say nothing . He that can craftily cozen and cheat , To get a base living by fraud and deceit , Shall stand on the Pillory to cool his heat , But I will say nothing . He that is often inclined to quarrel , Will bring both himself & his friend in great peril But that man is blessed that can wisely forbear ill , And learn to say nothing . Here you see something of nothing is made . For of the word nothing , something is said , That man who hath neither wealth , wit , nor trade , Alas he gets nothing . So free me being tedious , I now will refrain , And pray for King Charles that long he many reign : His foes and all traitors that wish Englands bane . Good Lord bring to nothing FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright . A Song made of Nothing . Yet he that does read , or hear it shall find , Something of nothing to pleasure his mind . To a dainty New tune . SOme men of nothing do matters endite . & some men of small things large volumes do write , But if you wilt give me leave I will recite A song made of nothing . He that has nothing may soonest spend all , And he that's exalted may have a downfall , And he that is weakest may go to the wall , But I will say nothing . He that presumeth a Gallant to be , And spends more in one year then he gets in three , Shall beg having wasted his Patrimony , But I will say nothing . He that has nothing , no credit shall have , Although he be virtuous , he's counted a knave , Among roaring Gallants that go fine and brave , Cause he can spend nothing . He that delights in Cards and in Dice , And spends his revenues in such idle vice , Shall meet with lewd company him to entice , Till he be worth nothing . He that hath nothing , with troubles beset , Will steal or do something a living to get . But if he be caught in the hangmans net , His life is worth nothing . He that hath nothing , can nothing possess , And he that hath little may look to have less , But much want and sorrow does daily oppress the man that hath nothing . He that will be a good husband indeed , That unto his business does go with good heed , Shall still have sufficient to serve him at need , And always want nothing . He that is married unto a good wife , Shall live in content all days of his life , But if man and woman be given to strife , They'll fallen out for nothing . He that is idle and will not take pains . But honest industry and labour disdains , When others true labours are quit with gains , Then he shall have nothing . The second part . To the same tune . HE that in Drunkenness takes his delight . To drink and to swagger , to brabble and fight He takes the wrong , and leaveth the right , But I will say nothing . He that in baseness his time does here spend , That never regards himself nor his friend , He stands in danger to have a bad end , But I will say nothing . He that takes pleasure to curse , ban and swear , With vain execrations his Maker to tear , The Lord in his wrath , if he do not forbear , will bring him to nothing . He that does ruffle it out in vain pride That weareth gay clothes a foul carcase to hide , And bears more on's back then he's worth beside , I'll trust him for nothing . He that delights to go to the Law , To sue for a trifle that's scarce worth a straw , May sue for a Woodcock . and catch a Jack-Daw For all comes to nothing . He that his time still carelessly spends , And hope's to be rich by the death of his friends , The pillar whereon all his hope still depends , Perhaps comes to nothing . He that deferreth amendment to 'th last , And seeks not to thrive till all remedie's past , If he through his folly behind hand be cast , His hope's are worth not [ thy ] ng . He that lives uprightly in his vocation , And on the distressed hath commiseration , That man rightly merits a good commendation He's guilty in nothing . He that with usury does money beget , And loves that young spendthrifts should be in his debt The Devil at last will drag him in's net But I will say nothing . He that can craftily cozen and cheat , To get a base living by fraud and deceit , Shall stand on the Pillory to cool his heat , But I will say nothing . He that is often inclined to quarrel , Will bring both himself & his friend in great peril But that man is blessed that can wisely forbear ill , And learn to say nothing . Here you see something of nothing is made . For of the word nothing , something is said , That man who hath neither wealth , wit , nor trade , Alas he gets nothing . So free me being tedious , I now will refrain , And pray for King Charles that long he many reign : His foes and all traitors that wish Englands bane . Good Lord bring to nothing FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright . 