Seldom comes the better : OR , And admonition to all sorts of people , as Husbands , Wives , Master's , and Sir - vaunts , etc to avoid mutability , and to fix their minds on what they possess . To the tune of the He-Devill . YOu men that are well wived , and yet do rail on Fate , As though you were deprived thereby of happy state : Learn well to be contented with a good wife , if you get her , For often when the old wife's dead , seldom comes the better . I once had a wife , Oh would to God she had lived , For while the Lord lent me her life , indifferent well I thrived ; Yet cause that she would chide at me , I wished that death would fetched her , But since I have god a worse then she , for seldom comes the better . She would tell me for my good , that I must leave my vice , But I not rightly understood her counsel of high price ; Full glad was I when she was dead , so much at nought I set her , But since I have god a worse in her stead , for seldom comes the better . I now have one thats not content with any thing I do ; The others tongue did me torment , this scolds and beats me too . I thought when I was rid of one , that Fortune was my debtor : But now I see when one wife's gone , that seldom comes the better . That wife would only me reprove , for wasting of my store ; But this , as well as I does love the good Ale pot , and more , She'l fit at the Alehouse all the day , and if the house will let her , Shee'l run on the score , and I must pay ; thus seldom comes the better . The other was a huswife good , when she a penny spent , It went from her like drops of blood , to th' Alehouse she ne're went , Unless it were to fetch home me , for which at nought I set her , But this wife is quite contrary , for seldom comes the better . And if I do rebuke her as a Husband ought and will , She'l call me Rogue and Rascal base , her tongue will ne're lie still ; Nay much a do I have to shun her blows if much I fret her ; The other quickly would have done : thus seldom comes the better . The Second part , To the same tune . WHen I consider well of this , it soar does vex my mind ; Oh then I think what this to miss a wife that's true and kind . There's many men like me that have good Wives , yet wish for neater , And feign would send the old to th' grave , in hope they shall have better . But that does seldom come to pass , though many hope it will : Therefore let him that has a good Lass , desire to keep her still : Nay , though she hath some small defect , to chide when he does fret her , Yet let him not her love neglect , for seldom comes the better . Some think that were their old Wives dead , such are their fickle minds They should get richer in their steads , but few or none that finds Their expectation answered . suppose the portion's greater , Yet he may say as I have said , that seldom comes the better . Ther's many Lads , and Lasses young , that in good service light , And yet they think that they have wrong to serve their time out quite , They love to shift from place to place , to th' little from the greater , Till at last they say in woeful case , faith , seldom comes the better . Change of pasture makes fat Calves , this is a proverb us'd , Which before another like it salves , and helps the first abus'd , A rolling stone ne're gathers moss : so he that is a flitter From house to house , shall find with loss , that seldom comes the better . Likewise some men and women both , when they have Servants true , To keep them overlong th'are loath , but still they wish for new ; And having put the old away , they take some far unfitter , Which being tried , at last they say faith , seldom comes the better . And he that hath a perfect Friend , let him retain his love , Lest losing th' old , the new ith' end a feigned friend do prove : And so it happens many times , as some can tell that yet are Alive , and do lament their crimes , with seldom comes the better . Therefore let all both Men and Wives . Servants and Master's all , Think on this Proverb all their lives , the use on't is not small ; If you are well , your selves so keep , and strive not to be greater ; Be sure to look before you leap , for seldom comes the better . FINIS . Printed at London . Seldom comes the better : OR , And admonition to all sorts of people , as Husbands , Wives , Master's , and Sir - vaunts , etc to avoid mutability , and to fix their minds on what they possess . To the tune of the He-Devill . YOu men that are well wived , and yet do rail on Fate , As though you were deprived thereby of happy state : Learn well to be contented with a good wife , if you get her , For often when the old wife's dead , seldom comes the better . I once had a wife , Oh would to God she had lived , For while the Lord lent me her life , indifferent well I thrived ; Yet cause that she would chide at me , I wished that death would fetched her , But since I have god a worse then she , for seldom comes the better . She would tell me for my good , that I must leave my vice , But I not rightly understood her counsel of high price ; Full glad was I when she was dead , so much at nought I set her , But since I have god a worse in her stead , for seldom comes the better . I now have one thats not content with any thing I do ; The others tongue did me torment , this scolds and beats me too . I thought when I was rid of one , that Fortune was my debtor : But now I see when one wife's gone , that seldom comes the better . That wife would only me reprove , for wasting of my store ; But this , as well as I does love the good Ale pot , and more , She'l fit at the Alehouse all the day , and if the house will let her , Shee'l run on the score , and I must pay ; thus seldom comes the better . The other was a huswife good , when she a penny spent , It went from her like drops of blood , to th' Alehouse she ne're went , Unless it were to fetch home me , for which at nought I set her , But this wife is quite contrary , for seldom comes the better . And if I do rebuke her as a Husband ought and will , She'l call me Rogue and Rascal base , her tongue will ne're lie still ; Nay much a do I have to shun her blows if much I fret her ; The other quickly would have done : thus seldom comes the better . The Second part , To the same tune . WHen I consider well of this , it soar does vex my mind ; Oh then I think what this to miss a wife that's true and kind . There's many men like me that have good Wives , yet wish for neater , And feign would send the old to th' grave , in hope they shall have better . But that does seldom come to pass , though many hope it will : Therefore let him that has a good Lass , desire to keep her still : Nay , though she hath some small defect , to chide when he does fret her , Yet let him not her love neglect , for seldom comes the better . Some think that were their old Wives dead , such are their fickle minds They should get richer in their steads , but few or none that finds Their expectation answered . suppose the portion's greater , Yet he may say as I have said , that seldom comes the better . Ther's many Lads , and Lasses young , that in good service light , And yet they think that they have wrong to serve their time out quite , They love to shift from place to place , to th' little from the greater , Till at last they say in woeful case , faith , seldom comes the better . Change of pasture makes fat Calves , this is a proverb us'd , Which before another like it salves , and helps the first abus'd , A rolling stone ne're gathers moss : so he that is a flitter From house to house , shall find with loss , that seldom comes the better . Likewise some men and women both , when they have Servants true , To keep them overlong th'are loath , but still they wish for new ; And having put the old away , they take some far unfitter , Which being tried , at last they say faith , seldom comes the better . And he that hath a perfect Friend , let him retain his love , Lest losing th' old , the new ith' end a feigned friend do prove : And so it happens many times , as some can tell that yet are Alive , and do lament their crimes , with seldom comes the better . Therefore let all both Men and Wives . Servants and Master's all , Think on this Proverb all their lives , the use on't is not small ; If you are well , your selves so keep , and strive not to be greater ; Be sure to look before you leap , for seldom comes the better . FINIS . Printed at London . 