The Lamentable and Tragical HISTORY OF TITUS ANDRONICUS WITH The fallen of his Sons in the Wars with the Goths , with the Manner of the Ravishment of his Daughter Lavinia , by the Empresses two Sons , through the means of a bloody Moor , taken by [ tO ] he Sword of Titus , in the War : with his Revenge upon their cruel and inhumane Act. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe , etc YOu noble Minds , & famous Martial Wights , That in Defence of Native Countries fights , Give Ear to me that ten Years fought for Rome , Yet reap'd Disgrace at my Returning home : In Room I liv'd in fame full threescore Years , my Name beloved was of all my Peers , Full five and twenty valiant Sons I had ; whose forward virtues made their father glad . For when Romes foes their warlike forces felt , against them still my Sons and I were sent ; against the Goths full ten Years weary War We spent , receiving many a bloody Scar. Just two and twenty of my Sons were slave , before I did return to Room again ; Of five and twenty Sons I brought but three Alive , the stately Tower of Room to see . When wars were done , I Conquest home did bring , and did present my Prisoners to the King : The Queen of Goths , her Sons , and eke a Moor , Who did such Murders , like were none before . The Emperor did make the Queen his Wife , Which bred in Rome debate and deadly strife : The Moor with her two Sons did grow so proud , That none like them in Room might be allow'd . The Moor so pleased this new Empress eye , that she consented to him secretly , for to abuse her Husbands marriage bed , and so in time a Blackamoor she bred . Then she whose thoughts to murder was inclin'd , Consented with the moor with bloody mind , Against myself , my Kin , and all my friends , In cruel sort to bring them to their ends . So when in age I thought to live in peace , Both care and grief began then to increase ; Among my sons I had one Daughter bright , Which joy'd and pleased best my aged sighed . My Lavinia was betrothed then To Caeser's son , a Young and noble man , Who in a hunting , by the Emperor's wife And her two Sons , bereft was of life . He being slave , was cast in cruel wise , into a darksome den from light of Skies ; The cruel Moor did come that way as then , with my three Sons that fell into the Den . The moor then fetched the Emperor with speed , For to accuse them of that murderous deed : And when my sons within the Den was found , In wrongful Prison were they cast and bound . But now behold what wounded most my mind , The Empresses two Sons of Tigers kind , My Daughter Ravished without remorse , And took away her honour quite perforce . When they had tasted of so sweet a Flower , Fearing this sweet should turned be to sour ; they cut her tongue whereby she could not tell How that dishonour unto her befell . Then both her hands they basely cut off quite , whereby their wickedness she could not write , Nor with her needle on her sampler sow , The bloody workers of her dismal woe . My brother Marcus found her in a wood , Staining the grassy ground with purple blood , that trickled from her stumps and handless arms , No tongue at all she had to tell her harms . But when I saw her in that woeful case ; with tears of blood I wet my aged face ; For my Lavinia I lemented more Than for my two and twenty sons before . When as I saw she could not write nor speak , with grief my aged heart began to break , we spread a heap of Sand upon the ground , whereby the bloody tyrants out we found : For with a staff , without the help of hand , She writ these words upon a plate of sand : the lustful Sons of the proud Emperess , Are Doers of this hateful wickedness . I tore the milkwhite hairs from off my head , I cursed the hour wherein I first was bred , I wish [ ' ] worser the hand that fought for Country's fame in cradle rocked had first been stricken lame . The Moor delighted still in villainy , Did say , to set my Sons from Prison free , I should unto the King my right hand give , And then my three imprisoned sons should live . The Moor I caus'd to strike it off with speed , whereat I grieved not to see it bleed , But for my Sons would willingly impart , And for their ransom send my bleeding heart . But as my life did linger thus in vain , They send to me my bootless hand again , And therewithal the hearts of my three Sons , which fill'd my dying heart with fresher groans . Then passed relief , I up and down did go , And with my tears writ in the dust my woe ; I shot my arrows towards Heaven high , and for Revenge to Hell did often cry . The Empress thinking then that I was mad , like furies she and both her Sons were glad ; So nam'd Revenge , and Rape , and murder , they to undermine and hear what I would say . I fed their foolish veins a little space , Until my Friends did find a secret place , where both her sons unto a post was bound , where just reward in cruel sort was found : I cut their throats , my Daughter held the pan , Betwixt her stumps , wherein the blood it ran : And then I ground their bones to powder small , And made a past for Pies straight therewithal . then with their flesh I made two mighty pies , and at a banquet serv'd in stately wise ; before the Empress set this loathsome meat , So of her Sons own flesh she well did eat . Myself bereav'd my Daughter then of life , the Empress then I slew with bloody knife ; And stab'd the Emperor immediately , and then my self , even so did Titus die . then this revenge against the Moor was found , alive they set him half into the ground , whereas he stood until the time he starv'd ; and so God send all Murderers may be serv'd . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . The Lamentable and Tragical HISTORY OF TITUS ANDRONICUS WITH The fallen of his Sons in the Wars with the Goths , with the Manner of the Ravishment of his Daughter Lavinia , by the Empresses two Sons , through the means of a bloody Moor , taken by [ tO ] he Sword of Titus , in the War : with his Revenge upon their cruel and inhumane Act. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe , etc YOu noble Minds , & famous Martial Wights , That in Defence of Native Countries fights , Give Ear to me that ten Years fought for Rome , Yet reap'd Disgrace at my Returning home : In Room I liv'd in fame full threescore Years , my Name beloved was of all my Peers , Full five and twenty valiant Sons I had ; whose forward virtues made their father glad . For when Romes foes their warlike forces felt , against them still my Sons and I were sent ; against the Goths full ten Years weary War We spent , receiving many a bloody Scar. Just two and twenty of my Sons were slave , before I did return to Room again ; Of five and twenty Sons I brought but three Alive , the stately Tower of Room to see . When wars were done , I Conquest home did bring , and did present my Prisoners to the King : The Queen of Goths , her Sons , and eke a Moor , Who did such Murders , like were none before . The Emperor did make the Queen his Wife , Which bred in Rome debate and deadly strife : The Moor with her two Sons did grow so proud , That none like them in Room might be allow'd . The Moor so pleased this new Empress eye , that she consented to him secretly , for to abuse her Husbands marriage bed , and so in time a Blackamoor she bred . Then she whose thoughts to murder was inclin'd , Consented with the moor with bloody mind , Against myself , my Kin , and all my friends , In cruel sort to bring them to their ends . So when in age I thought to live in peace , Both care and grief began then to increase ; Among my sons I had one Daughter bright , Which joy'd and pleased best my aged sighed . My Lavinia was betrothed then To Caeser's son , a Young and noble man , Who in a hunting , by the Emperor's wife And her two Sons , bereft was of life . He being slave , was cast in cruel wise , into a darksome den from light of Skies ; The cruel Moor did come that way as then , with my three Sons that fell into the Den . The moor then fetched the Emperor with speed , For to accuse them of that murderous deed : And when my sons within the Den was found , In wrongful Prison were they cast and bound . But now behold what wounded most my mind , The Empresses two Sons of Tigers kind , My Daughter Ravished without remorse , And took away her honour quite perforce . When they had tasted of so sweet a Flower , Fearing this sweet should turned be to sour ; they cut her tongue whereby she could not tell How that dishonour unto her befell . Then both her hands they basely cut off quite , whereby their wickedness she could not write , Nor with her needle on her sampler sow , The bloody workers of her dismal woe . My brother Marcus found her in a wood , Staining the grassy ground with purple blood , that trickled from her stumps and handless arms , No tongue at all she had to tell her harms . But when I saw her in that woeful case ; with tears of blood I wet my aged face ; For my Lavinia I lemented more Than for my two and twenty sons before . When as I saw she could not write nor speak , with grief my aged heart began to break , we spread a heap of Sand upon the ground , whereby the bloody tyrants out we found : For with a staff , without the help of hand , She writ these words upon a plate of sand : the lustful Sons of the proud Emperess , Are Doers of this hateful wickedness . I tore the milkwhite hairs from off my head , I cursed the hour wherein I first was bred , I wish [ ' ] worser the hand that fought for Country's fame in cradle rocked had first been stricken lame . The Moor delighted still in villainy , Did say , to set my Sons from Prison free , I should unto the King my right hand give , And then my three imprisoned sons should live . The Moor I caus'd to strike it off with speed , whereat I grieved not to see it bleed , But for my Sons would willingly impart , And for their ransom send my bleeding heart . But as my life did linger thus in vain , They send to me my bootless hand again , And therewithal the hearts of my three Sons , which fill'd my dying heart with fresher groans . Then passed relief , I up and down did go , And with my tears writ in the dust my woe ; I shot my arrows towards Heaven high , and for Revenge to Hell did often cry . The Empress thinking then that I was mad , like furies she and both her Sons were glad ; So nam'd Revenge , and Rape , and murder , they to undermine and hear what I would say . I fed their foolish veins a little space , Until my Friends did find a secret place , where both her sons unto a post was bound , where just reward in cruel sort was found : I cut their throats , my Daughter held the pan , Betwixt her stumps , wherein the blood it ran : And then I ground their bones to powder small , And made a past for Pies straight therewithal . then with their flesh I made two mighty pies , and at a banquet serv'd in stately wise ; before the Empress set this loathsome meat , So of her Sons own flesh she well did eat . Myself bereav'd my Daughter then of life , the Empress then I slew with bloody knife ; And stab'd the Emperor immediately , and then my self , even so did Titus die . then this revenge against the Moor was found , alive they set him half into the ground , whereas he stood until the time he starv'd ; and so God send all Murderers may be serv'd . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 