The Catalogue of Contented Cuckolds : OR , A Loving Society of Confessing Brothers of the Forked Order , etc who being met together in a Tavern , declar'd each Man his Condition , resolving to be contented , and drown'd Melancholy in a Glass of Necktar . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc or , Love's a sweet Passion , etc FUll ten honest Tradesmen did happen to meet , In a Tavern , it seems , about Leaden-hall-street ; One a Brewer , a Baker , a Cook , and a Taylor ; With a Turner , a Goldsmith , a Merchant , a Sailor ; Nay , a Doctor , a Surgeon which opens the vein : These was good honest Tradesmen , all Cuckolds in grain . My Wife , quoth the Brewer , is charming and fair , She will ramble a broad , but I never know where ; Yet at midnight sometime she returns with a Spark ; Nay , I sometime have found her at Put in the dark : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Baker , he cry'd , There is Robin my man , He will play with his Dame , let me do what I can ; Once I happen'd to catch him in Bed by her side , You'd a laughed to have seen how I liquor'd his hide : But I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Cook he cry'd out , I am none of the least , For when ever I go to a Dinner , or Feast , There is brawny young William , the Poulterer's Man , He will kiss my sweet Wife for a Sop in the Pan : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich spam [ r ] kling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Taylor sat sighing and scratching his ears , Quoth he , I have been Cuckold'd this three or four Years , By a Saylesman who gave my sweet wife her Silk-gown , When he comes up my stairs , I am forc'd to go down : It cannot be avoided , I'll swear by this Wine , But I'll now be contented , and never repine . In troth , quoth the Turner , 'tis my very Case , For when her Gallant comes I am forc'd to give place , To my work straight I go where I labour and toil , And I leave him to turn up my wife the mean while ; But my pocket with Genea's of Gold he does [ l ] ine , Therefore I'll be contented , and never repine . O , then , said the Goldsmith , pray hear my complaint , Sirs , I marry'd a Quaker she seem'd like a Saint , Yet a Horn to the World I have reason to blow , Oh the innocent Lamb has a dark way to go : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Merchant he [ c ] ry'd , When I go to the Change , With [ tO ] h a Master of Music my Lady will range , To the Tavern , and thereon her Lute he must play , She may dance , but I'm sure I the Music must pay With my Treasure his pockets she often will line , Yet contented I'll be , 'tis in vain to repine . The Sailor cry'd , Brother's , hear me if you please , Three or four Years together I plough'd the rough Seas , In my absence my Wife had a Daughter and Son , And I found a great Panyer as big as a Gun : I cry'd out , My sweet Nancy 'faith this is fine ? Be contented , said she , 'tis in vain to repine . Come , come , said the Docter , the best of us all Cannot be our Wives Keepers , they are subj [ e ] ct to fallen ; Friends by woeful Experience I speak it indeed , I have one that will help a kind Friend at his need : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Surgeon he cry'd , Sirs , I'll tell you a jest , For I'm sure I am a Cuckold as well as the bes Once I follow'd my Wife and her Spark to Horn-fair , Where I took them both napping as Moss catched his Mare , He was letting her Blood near the Leg and the Loin ; I was almost Horn-mad , I began to repine . Since we are ten Cuckolds here all on a row , We will drink each a Bottle b [ e ] before we do go , For to drown Melancholy in liquour of Life ; He's a fool that will weep for the Sins of his Wife ; Let us tipple Canary , and never complain , There is better than we that are Cuckolds in grain . LONDON : Printed for J. Conyers , next door to the Standard Tavern , in Leicester-fields . The Catalogue of Contented Cuckolds : OR , A Loving Society of Confessing Brothers of the Forked Order , etc who being met together in a Tavern , declar'd each Man his Condition , resolving to be contented , and drown'd Melancholy in a Glass of Necktar . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc or , Love's a sweet Passion , etc FUll ten honest Tradesmen did happen to meet , In a Tavern , it seems , about Leaden-hall-street ; One a Brewer , a Baker , a Cook , and a Taylor ; With a Turner , a Goldsmith , a Merchant , a Sailor ; Nay , a Doctor , a Surgeon which opens the vein : These was good honest Tradesmen , all Cuckolds in grain . My Wife , quoth the Brewer , is charming and fair , She will ramble a broad , but I never know where ; Yet at midnight sometime she returns with a Spark ; Nay , I sometime have found her at Put in the dark : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Baker , he cry'd , There is Robin my man , He will play with his Dame , let me do what I can ; Once I happen'd to catch him in Bed by her side , You'd a laughed to have seen how I liquor'd his hide : But I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Cook he cry'd out , I am none of the least , For when ever I go to a Dinner , or Feast , There is brawny young William , the Poulterer's Man , He will kiss my sweet Wife for a Sop in the Pan : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich spam [ r ] kling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Taylor sat sighing and scratching his ears , Quoth he , I have been Cuckold'd this three or four Years , By a Saylesman who gave my sweet wife her Silk-gown , When he comes up my stairs , I am forc'd to go down : It cannot be avoided , I'll swear by this Wine , But I'll now be contented , and never repine . In troth , quoth the Turner , 'tis my very Case , For when her Gallant comes I am forc'd to give place , To my work straight I go where I labour and toil , And I leave him to turn up my wife the mean while ; But my pocket with Genea's of Gold he does [ l ] ine , Therefore I'll be contented , and never repine . O , then , said the Goldsmith , pray hear my complaint , Sirs , I marry'd a Quaker she seem'd like a Saint , Yet a Horn to the World I have reason to blow , Oh the innocent Lamb has a dark way to go : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Merchant he [ c ] ry'd , When I go to the Change , With [ tO ] h a Master of Music my Lady will range , To the Tavern , and thereon her Lute he must play , She may dance , but I'm sure I the Music must pay With my Treasure his pockets she often will line , Yet contented I'll be , 'tis in vain to repine . The Sailor cry'd , Brother's , hear me if you please , Three or four Years together I plough'd the rough Seas , In my absence my Wife had a Daughter and Son , And I found a great Panyer as big as a Gun : I cry'd out , My sweet Nancy 'faith this is fine ? Be contented , said she , 'tis in vain to repine . Come , come , said the Docter , the best of us all Cannot be our Wives Keepers , they are subj [ e ] ct to fallen ; Friends by woeful Experience I speak it indeed , I have one that will help a kind Friend at his need : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Surgeon he cry'd , Sirs , I'll tell you a jest , For I'm sure I am a Cuckold as well as the bes Once I follow'd my Wife and her Spark to Horn-fair , Where I took them both napping as Moss catched his Mare , He was letting her Blood near the Leg and the Loin ; I was almost Horn-mad , I began to repine . Since we are ten Cuckolds here all on a row , We will drink each a Bottle b [ e ] before we do go , For to drown Melancholy in liquour of Life ; He's a fool that will weep for the Sins of his Wife ; Let us tipple Canary , and never complain , There is better than we that are Cuckolds in grain . LONDON : Printed for J. Conyers , next door to the Standard Tavern , in Leicester-fields . The Catalogue of Contented Cuckolds : OR , A Loving Society of Confessing Brothers of the Forked Order , etc who being met together in a Tavern , declar'd each Man his Condition , resolving to be contented , and drown'd Melancholy in a Glass of Necktar . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc or , Love's a sweet Passion , etc FUll ten honest Tradesmen did happen to meet , In a Tavern , it seems , about Leaden-hall-street ; One a Brewer , a Baker , a Cook , and a Taylor ; With a Turner , a Goldsmith , a Merchant , a Sailor ; Nay , a Doctor , a Surgeon which opens the vein : These was good honest Tradesmen , all Cuckolds in grain . My Wife , quoth the Brewer , is charming and fair , She will ramble a broad , but I never know where ; Yet at midnight sometime she returns with a Spark ; Nay , I sometime have found her at Put in the dark : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Baker , he cry'd , There is Robin my man , He will play with his Dame , let me do what I can ; Once I happen'd to catch him in Bed by her side , You'd a laughed to have seen how I liquor'd his hide : But I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Cook he cry'd out , I am none of the least , For when ever I go to a Dinner , or Feast , There is brawny young William , the Poulterer's Man , He will kiss my sweet Wife for a Sop in the Pan : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich spam [ r ] kling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Taylor sat sighing and scratching his ears , Quoth he , I have been Cuckold'd this three or four Years , By a Saylesman who gave my sweet wife her Silk-gown , When he comes up my stairs , I am forc'd to go down : It cannot be avoided , I'll swear by this Wine , But I'll now be contented , and never repine . In troth , quoth the Turner , 'tis my very Case , For when her Gallant comes I am forc'd to give place , To my work straight I go where I labour and toil , And I leave him to turn up my wife the mean while ; But my pocket with Genea's of Gold he does [ l ] ine , Therefore I'll be contented , and never repine . O , then , said the Goldsmith , pray hear my complaint , Sirs , I marry'd a Quaker she seem'd like a Saint , Yet a Horn to the World I have reason to blow , Oh the innocent Lamb has a dark way to go : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Merchant he [ c ] ry'd , When I go to the Change , With [ tO ] h a Master of Music my Lady will range , To the Tavern , and thereon her Lute he must play , She may dance , but I'm sure I the Music must pay With my Treasure his pockets she often will line , Yet contented I'll be , 'tis in vain to repine . The Sailor cry'd , Brother's , hear me if you please , Three or four Years together I plough'd the rough Seas , In my absence my Wife had a Daughter and Son , And I found a great Panyer as big as a Gun : I cry'd out , My sweet Nancy 'faith this is fine ? Be contented , said she , 'tis in vain to repine . Come , come , said the Docter , the best of us all Cannot be our Wives Keepers , they are subj [ e ] ct to fallen ; Friends by woeful Experience I speak it indeed , I have one that will help a kind Friend at his need : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Surgeon he cry'd , Sirs , I'll tell you a jest , For I'm sure I am a Cuckold as well as the bes Once I follow'd my Wife and her Spark to Horn-fair , Where I took them both napping as Moss catched his Mare , He was letting her Blood near the Leg and the Loin ; I was almost Horn-mad , I began to repine . Since we are ten Cuckolds here all on a row , We will drink each a Bottle b [ e ] before we do go , For to drown Melancholy in liquour of Life ; He's a fool that will weep for the Sins of his Wife ; Let us tipple Canary , and never complain , There is better than we that are Cuckolds in grain . LONDON : Printed for J. Conyers , next door to the Standard Tavern , in Leicester-fields . The Catalogue of Contented Cuckolds : OR , A Loving Society of Confessing Brothers of the Forked Order , etc who being met together in a Tavern , declar'd each Man his Condition , resolving to be contented , and drown'd Melancholy in a Glass of Necktar . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc or , Love's a sweet Passion , etc FUll ten honest Tradesmen did happen to meet , In a Tavern , it seems , about Leaden-hall-street ; One a Brewer , a Baker , a Cook , and a Taylor ; With a Turner , a Goldsmith , a Merchant , a Sailor ; Nay , a Doctor , a Surgeon which opens the vein : These was good honest Tradesmen , all Cuckolds in grain . My Wife , quoth the Brewer , is charming and fair , She will ramble a broad , but I never know where ; Yet at midnight sometime she returns with a Spark ; Nay , I sometime have found her at Put in the dark : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Baker , he cry'd , There is Robin my man , He will play with his Dame , let me do what I can ; Once I happen'd to catch him in Bed by her side , You'd a laughed to have seen how I liquor'd his hide : But I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Cook he cry'd out , I am none of the least , For when ever I go to a Dinner , or Feast , There is brawny young William , the Poulterer's Man , He will kiss my sweet Wife for a Sop in the Pan : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich spam [ r ] kling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Taylor sat sighing and scratching his ears , Quoth he , I have been Cuckold'd this three or four Years , By a Saylesman who gave my sweet wife her Silk-gown , When he comes up my stairs , I am forc'd to go down : It cannot be avoided , I'll swear by this Wine , But I'll now be contented , and never repine . In troth , quoth the Turner , 'tis my very Case , For when her Gallant comes I am forc'd to give place , To my work straight I go where I labour and toil , And I leave him to turn up my wife the mean while ; But my pocket with Genea's of Gold he does [ l ] ine , Therefore I'll be contented , and never repine . O , then , said the Goldsmith , pray hear my complaint , Sirs , I marry'd a Quaker she seem'd like a Saint , Yet a Horn to the World I have reason to blow , Oh the innocent Lamb has a dark way to go : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Merchant he [ c ] ry'd , When I go to the Change , With [ tO ] h a Master of Music my Lady will range , To the Tavern , and thereon her Lute he must play , She may dance , but I'm sure I the Music must pay With my Treasure his pockets she often will line , Yet contented I'll be , 'tis in vain to repine . The Sailor cry'd , Brother's , hear me if you please , Three or four Years together I plough'd the rough Seas , In my absence my Wife had a Daughter and Son , And I found a great Panyer as big as a Gun : I cry'd out , My sweet Nancy 'faith this is fine ? Be contented , said she , 'tis in vain to repine . Come , come , said the Docter , the best of us all Cannot be our Wives Keepers , they are subj [ e ] ct to fallen ; Friends by woeful Experience I speak it indeed , I have one that will help a kind Friend at his need : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Surgeon he cry'd , Sirs , I'll tell you a jest , For I'm sure I am a Cuckold as well as the bes Once I follow'd my Wife and her Spark to Horn-fair , Where I took them both napping as Moss catched his Mare , He was letting her Blood near the Leg and the Loin ; I was almost Horn-mad , I began to repine . Since we are ten Cuckolds here all on a row , We will drink each a Bottle b [ e ] before we do go , For to drown Melancholy in liquour of Life ; He's a fool that will weep for the Sins of his Wife ; Let us tipple Canary , and never complain , There is better than we that are Cuckolds in grain . LONDON : Printed for J. Conyers , next door to the Standard Tavern , in Leicester-fields . 