Two pleasant Ditties , one of the Birth , the other of the Passion of Christ . To the tune of Dulcina . Of Nativity . JUry came to Jeru-salem , ( all the world was taxed then ) Blessed Mary brought to Bethelem , more then all the world again : A gift so blessed , So good , the best that ere was seen , was herd or done , A King , a Christ , Prophet , and Pries a Jesus , God , a Man , a Son . Happy night , a day was never , half so happy sweet and fair : Singing Soldiers ( blessed ever ) fill the sky with sweetest air . Amaz'd men fear , They see , they hear . yet doubt and ask how this was done : It bid , be bold , It was foretold , this night hath God himself a Son , There appears a golden Usher , Kings attending in their train : The bright Sun could not out blush her , such a Star ner'e shone again . See now it stays , Seeming it says , Go in and see , what there is done , A Child whose birth , Leagues heaven and earth , Jesus to us , to God a Son . Subtle Herod sought to find him , with a purpose black as hell : But a greater power confined him , and his purpose did repel : Who should betray , Do all obey , as fitting was it should be done : They all adore , And kneel before , this God and Man , to God a Son . 'Twas upon a Comets blazing , Cuma to Augustus said , This foreshows and act amazing : for a Mother still a maid , A Babe shall bear , That all must fear , and suddenly it must be done : Nay Caesar thou , To him must bow , hee's God , a Man , to God a Son . Is not this a blessed wonder , God is Man , and Man is God : Foolish Jewes mistook the thunder , should proclaim this King abroad . Angels they sing , Behold the King , in Bethelem where this was done : Then we as they , Rejoice and say , We have a Saviour , God a Son . The second part . To the same Tune . TUrne your eyes that are affixed on this world's deceivling things : And with joys and sorrows mixed , look upon the King of Kings , Who let his thrown : With joys unknown : took flesh like ours , like us drew breath For us to die , Here fix our eye , and think upon his precious death . See him in the garden praying , while his sad Disciples sleep See him in the Garden sweating drops of blood and how he wep As man he was , He wept ( alas ) and trembling fear to lose his breath , Yet to heavens will , He yielded still : then think upon his precious death . See him by the Soldiers taken , when with Have and a kiss : He that Heaven had quite forsaken , had betrayed him and with this , Behold him ( bound And guarded round ) to Caiphas born to lose his breath , There see the Jewes Heavens King abuse : Oh think upon his precious death . See him in the hands of Pilat , like a base offender strip See the moan , and tears they smile at , while they see our Saviour whipped . Behold him bleed , His purple weed record , while you have life and breath , His taunts and scorns , His Crown of thorns , or think upon his precious death . See him in the hour of parting , hanging on his bloody Cross : See his wounds [ , ] conceive his smarting , and our gain , by his lives loss . On either side A Fellow died , the one derides him leaving breath : The other prays , And humbly says : Oh save me by thy precious death . See as in these pangs he thirsted , and that heat to cool did call , How these Jewes ( like Judas cursed ) bring him vinegar and gall , His spirit then , To Heaven again , commending with his latest breath , The world he leaves , That man deceives : Oh think upon his precious death . Finis . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . Two pleasant Ditties , one of the Birth , the other of the Passion of Christ . To the tune of Dulcina . Of Nativity . JUry came to Jeru-salem , ( all the world was taxed then ) Blessed Mary brought to Bethelem , more then all the world again : A gift so blessed , So good , the best that ere was seen , was herd or done , A King , a Christ , Prophet , and Pries a Jesus , God , a Man , a Son . Happy night , a day was never , half so happy sweet and fair : Singing Soldiers ( blessed ever ) fill the sky with sweetest air . Amaz'd men fear , They see , they hear . yet doubt and ask how this was done : It bid , be bold , It was foretold , this night hath God himself a Son , There appears a golden Usher , Kings attending in their train : The bright Sun could not out blush her , such a Star ner'e shone again . See now it stays , Seeming it says , Go in and see , what there is done , A Child whose birth , Leagues heaven and earth , Jesus to us , to God a Son . Subtle Herod sought to find him , with a purpose black as hell : But a greater power confined him , and his purpose did repel : Who should betray , Do all obey , as fitting was it should be done : They all adore , And kneel before , this God and Man , to God a Son . 'Twas upon a Comets blazing , Cuma to Augustus said , This foreshows and act amazing : for a Mother still a maid , A Babe shall bear , That all must fear , and suddenly it must be done : Nay Caesar thou , To him must bow , hee's God , a Man , to God a Son . Is not this a blessed wonder , God is Man , and Man is God : Foolish Jewes mistook the thunder , should proclaim this King abroad . Angels they sing , Behold the King , in Bethelem where this was done : Then we as they , Rejoice and say , We have a Saviour , God a Son . The second part . To the same Tune . TUrne your eyes that are affixed on this world's deceivling things : And with joys and sorrows mixed , look upon the King of Kings , Who let his thrown : With joys unknown : took flesh like ours , like us drew breath For us to die , Here fix our eye , and think upon his precious death . See him in the garden praying , while his sad Disciples sleep See him in the Garden sweating drops of blood and how he wep As man he was , He wept ( alas ) and trembling fear to lose his breath , Yet to heavens will , He yielded still : then think upon his precious death . See him by the Soldiers taken , when with Have and a kiss : He that Heaven had quite forsaken , had betrayed him and with this , Behold him ( bound And guarded round ) to Caiphas born to lose his breath , There see the Jewes Heavens King abuse : Oh think upon his precious death . See him in the hands of Pilat , like a base offender strip See the moan , and tears they smile at , while they see our Saviour whipped . Behold him bleed , His purple weed record , while you have life and breath , His taunts and scorns , His Crown of thorns , or think upon his precious death . See him in the hour of parting , hanging on his bloody Cross : See his wounds [ , ] conceive his smarting , and our gain , by his lives loss . On either side A Fellow died , the one derides him leaving breath : The other prays , And humbly says : Oh save me by thy precious death . See as in these pangs he thirsted , and that heat to cool did call , How these Jewes ( like Judas cursed ) bring him vinegar and gall , His spirit then , To Heaven again , commending with his latest breath , The world he leaves , That man deceives : Oh think upon his precious death . Finis . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 