Take Time , while Time is : Being and Exhortation to all sorts or Sexes , of what Degree soever , from the Highest to the Lowest , Old or Young , Rich or Poor . To the Tune of , The Ladies Daughter of Paris . O stay a while you lusty Lads , that seem to skip and mount , From me your aged Patron , although you make no count Of Father , Mother , kith or kin , what ever they do say , You snuff and snort when they correct , you fly and will not stay . O stay , I say , and learn of me a Lesson by the way : You are unfit for any use , seeing you'l not obey . Behold , I say , the Picture now that here does stand above , And be you warn'd by what I say , if that your selves you love . To you he offers now himself , until your thread be spun ; But as he offers , steals away until your thread be done . Lay hold on him therefore , I say , and say , I warn'd anew , Lest that he steal away from you , and bid you so adieu . For Time does stay here for no man , bee't King , bee't Prince , bee't Peer ; He leaves them to what life they will , bee't joy , bee't love , bee't fear : Bee't life or death , I say , or ought that blind Fate does ordain , As some in bed asleep we see , and some in field are slain . His Glass that in his hand he holds does cut off all delay , His Wings that on his back do stick , do show he cannot stay For any that comes after him , be he swarthy or fair ; But he must come and stand before , and take hold of his hair : And when that you have hold of it , in no case let it go ; For having once forsook him quite , your footsteps are too slow For to lay hold on him again , when once that he is pass So Fortune's favours , you must think , with you'l not always last . The second Part , To the same tune . THe Dial fixed upon his Head , most evident does show , How fleeting is this mortal life , and Time does always go , Although we not perceive it move , old age does come at last , And brings diseases on us all , our lives are but a blast . His Sith within the other hand , does show how he cuts down The lives of all , from great to small , from Cottage to the Crown : We are like grass which soon does fade , and withereth in and hour , When Time is past , grim Death does come , and seizeth with his power . The Flowers like to Youthfulness , is fragrant , sweet , and fair , But soon is plucked , and vanished , as is the smoke in air ; The swift wing'd Swallow shows us plain how Time does fleet away , We Summer have , and Winter eke , and Time for none will stay . What though thy Father he be rich , and thou be young in years , Thinkest thou that God hath no means left to blast thy Father's ears Of Corn , or Cattle , or what else that does maintain his fame ? Yea , God hath means enough in store for to confound the same . But o , the mighty number now , that in this Land there be , That do go up to brave London , out of their own Country . And there to sport , and play their fill , they make it all their joy : Their careful Parents counsels all , they make of them a toy . But if thou followest on this life , and mean'st therein to lie , Thou shalt be barred from Gods bliss , and damn'd eternally . But be thou ruled by thy friends when Counsel they thee give , And God shall prosper all thy ways , that thou long days mayest live . Make much of Time therefore , I say , before that thou bee'st old , Lest that he tell thee to thy teeth , that thou art too too bold , To trust unto this winged man that flies on so fas For if thou car'st not what I say , Repentance comes at last . But now to make and end with you , hoping you know my mind , Concerning this same Picture here , that I have so defin'd : If that you mark it well , I say , and what therein is meant , I hope you'l turn your bias round , and of the same repent . And let us pray unto our God , to bless our sovereign King , Under whose happy government , we enjoy every thing That God ev'n of his mercy gives , and down upon us sends : He grant we may be thankful still , and send us blessed ends . FINIS . London , Printed by M.P. for Henry Gosson , dwelling upon London - bridge , near the Gate . Take Time , while Time is : Being and Exhortation to all sorts or Sexes , of what Degree soever , from the Highest to the Lowest , Old or Young , Rich or Poor . To the Tune of , The Ladies Daughter of Paris . O stay a while you lusty Lads , that seem to skip and mount , From me your aged Patron , although you make no count Of Father , Mother , kith or kin , what ever they do say , You snuff and snort when they correct , you fly and will not stay . O stay , I say , and learn of me a Lesson by the way : You are unfit for any use , seeing you'l not obey . Behold , I say , the Picture now that here does stand above , And be you warn'd by what I say , if that your selves you love . To you he offers now himself , until your thread be spun ; But as he offers , steals away until your thread be done . Lay hold on him therefore , I say , and say , I warn'd anew , Lest that he steal away from you , and bid you so adieu . For Time does stay here for no man , bee't King , bee't Prince , bee't Peer ; He leaves them to what life they will , bee't joy , bee't love , bee't fear : Bee't life or death , I say , or ought that blind Fate does ordain , As some in bed asleep we see , and some in field are slain . His Glass that in his hand he holds does cut off all delay , His Wings that on his back do stick , do show he cannot stay For any that comes after him , be he swarthy or fair ; But he must come and stand before , and take hold of his hair : And when that you have hold of it , in no case let it go ; For having once forsook him quite , your footsteps are too slow For to lay hold on him again , when once that he is pass So Fortune's favours , you must think , with you'l not always last . The second Part , To the same tune . THe Dial fixed upon his Head , most evident does show , How fleeting is this mortal life , and Time does always go , Although we not perceive it move , old age does come at last , And brings diseases on us all , our lives are but a blast . His Sith within the other hand , does show how he cuts down The lives of all , from great to small , from Cottage to the Crown : We are like grass which soon does fade , and withereth in and hour , When Time is past , grim Death does come , and seizeth with his power . The Flowers like to Youthfulness , is fragrant , sweet , and fair , But soon is plucked , and vanished , as is the smoke in air ; The swift wing'd Swallow shows us plain how Time does fleet away , We Summer have , and Winter eke , and Time for none will stay . What though thy Father he be rich , and thou be young in years , Thinkest thou that God hath no means left to blast thy Father's ears Of Corn , or Cattle , or what else that does maintain his fame ? Yea , God hath means enough in store for to confound the same . But o , the mighty number now , that in this Land there be , That do go up to brave London , out of their own Country . And there to sport , and play their fill , they make it all their joy : Their careful Parents counsels all , they make of them a toy . But if thou followest on this life , and mean'st therein to lie , Thou shalt be barred from Gods bliss , and damn'd eternally . But be thou ruled by thy friends when Counsel they thee give , And God shall prosper all thy ways , that thou long days mayest live . Make much of Time therefore , I say , before that thou bee'st old , Lest that he tell thee to thy teeth , that thou art too too bold , To trust unto this winged man that flies on so fas For if thou car'st not what I say , Repentance comes at last . But now to make and end with you , hoping you know my mind , Concerning this same Picture here , that I have so defin'd : If that you mark it well , I say , and what therein is meant , I hope you'l turn your bias round , and of the same repent . And let us pray unto our God , to bless our sovereign King , Under whose happy government , we enjoy every thing That God ev'n of his mercy gives , and down upon us sends : He grant we may be thankful still , and send us blessed ends . FINIS . London , Printed by M.P. for Henry Gosson , dwelling upon London - bridge , near the Gate . 