Times Alteration : OR , The Old men rehearsal , what brave days he knew A great while ago , when his Old Cap was new . To the Tune of , I'll never be drunk again . WHen this Old Cap was new , this since two hundred year , No malice then we knew , but all things plenty were : All friendship now decays , ( believe me , this is true ) Which was not in those days , when this old Cap was new . The Nobles of our Land were much delighted then , To have at their command a Crew of lusty Men , Which by their Coats were known , of Tawny , Read , or Blue , With Crests on their sleeves shown , when this old Cap was new . Now Pride hath banished all , unto our Lands reproach , When he whose means is small , maintains both Horse and Coach : In stead of and hundred Men , the Coach allows but two ; This was not thought on then , when this old Cap was new . Good Hospitality was cherished then of many ; Now poor men starve and die , and are not helped by any : For Charity waxes cold , and Love is found in few : This was not in time of old , when this old Cap was new . Where ever you travel'd then , you might meet on the way Brave Knights and Gentlemen , clad in their Country Grey , That courteous would appear , and kindly welcome you : No Puritans then were , when this old Cap was new . Our Ladies in those days in civil Habit went , Broad-Cloth was then worth praise , and gave the best conten French Fashions then were scorn'd , found Fangles then none knew . Then Modesty Women adorn'd , when this old Cap was new . The Second Part. To the same Tune . A Man might then behold , at Christmas , in each Hall , Good Fires , to curb the Cold , and Meat for great and small : The Neighbours were friendly bidden , and all had welcome true , The poor from the Gates were not chidden , when this old Cap was new . Black Jacks to every man were fill'd with Wine and Beer , No Pewter Pot nor Kanne in those days did appear : Good cheer in a Nobleman's house was counted a seemly show , We wanted no Brawn nor Souse , when this old Cap was new . We took not such delight in Cups of Silver fine , None under the degree of a Knight , in Plate drunk Beer or Wine : Now each Mechanical man hath a Cupboard of Plate , for a show , Which was a rare thing then , when this old Cap was new . Then Bribery was unborn , no Simony men did use , Christians did Usury scorn , devis'd among the Jewes , Then Lawyers to be Feed , at that time hardly knew , For man with man agreed , when this old Cap was new . No Captain then carowst , nor spent poor Soldiers Pay , They were not so abus'd , as they are at this day : Of seven days they make eight , to keep from them their endue : Poor Soldiers had their right , when this old Cap was new . Which made them forward still to go , although not pres And going with good will , their fortune's were the best . Our English then in fight did foreign Foes subdue , And forced them all to flight , when this old Cap was new . God save our gracious King , and send him long to live , Lord , mischief on them bring , that will not their Alms give [ , ] But seek to rob the Poor of that which is their endue : This was not in time of yore , when this old Cap was new . FINIS . M.P. Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . Times Alteration : OR , The Old men rehearsal , what brave days he knew A great while ago , when his Old Cap was new . To the Tune of , I'll never be drunk again . WHen this Old Cap was new , this since two hundred year , No malice then we knew , but all things plenty were : All friendship now decays , ( believe me , this is true ) Which was not in those days , when this old Cap was new . The Nobles of our Land were much delighted then , To have at their command a Crew of lusty Men , Which by their Coats were known , of Tawny , Read , or Blue , With Crests on their sleeves shown , when this old Cap was new . Now Pride hath banished all , unto our Lands reproach , When he whose means is small , maintains both Horse and Coach : In stead of and hundred Men , the Coach allows but two ; This was not thought on then , when this old Cap was new . Good Hospitality was cherished then of many ; Now poor men starve and die , and are not helped by any : For Charity waxes cold , and Love is found in few : This was not in time of old , when this old Cap was new . Where ever you travel'd then , you might meet on the way Brave Knights and Gentlemen , clad in their Country Grey , That courteous would appear , and kindly welcome you : No Puritans then were , when this old Cap was new . Our Ladies in those days in civil Habit went , Broad-Cloth was then worth praise , and gave the best conten French Fashions then were scorn'd , found Fangles then none knew . Then Modesty Women adorn'd , when this old Cap was new . The Second Part. To the same Tune . A Man might then behold , at Christmas , in each Hall , Good Fires , to curb the Cold , and Meat for great and small : The Neighbours were friendly bidden , and all had welcome true , The poor from the Gates were not chidden , when this old Cap was new . Black Jacks to every man were fill'd with Wine and Beer , No Pewter Pot nor Kanne in those days did appear : Good cheer in a Nobleman's house was counted a seemly show , We wanted no Brawn nor Souse , when this old Cap was new . We took not such delight in Cups of Silver fine , None under the degree of a Knight , in Plate drunk Beer or Wine : Now each Mechanical man hath a Cupboard of Plate , for a show , Which was a rare thing then , when this old Cap was new . Then Bribery was unborn , no Simony men did use , Christians did Usury scorn , devis'd among the Jewes , Then Lawyers to be Feed , at that time hardly knew , For man with man agreed , when this old Cap was new . No Captain then carowst , nor spent poor Soldiers Pay , They were not so abus'd , as they are at this day : Of seven days they make eight , to keep from them their endue : Poor Soldiers had their right , when this old Cap was new . Which made them forward still to go , although not pres And going with good will , their fortune's were the best . Our English then in fight did foreign Foes subdue , And forced them all to flight , when this old Cap was new . God save our gracious King , and send him long to live , Lord , mischief on them bring , that will not their Alms give [ , ] But seek to rob the Poor of that which is their endue : This was not in time of yore , when this old Cap was new . FINIS . M.P. Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 