A Table of good Nurture : Wherein is contained a Schoolmasters admonition to his Scholars to learn good manners : the Father to his Children to learn virtue : and the House - holder to his Servants to learn godliness . To the tune of , The Earl of Bedford . GOod Children , refuse not these lessons to learn , The pathway to virtue you here may discern , In keeping them truly , you shall be most sure , The praise of all people thereby to procure . Let God first be served , who all things does give , That by his good blessing thou long time mayest live : And then to thy Parents thy duty unfold , Who keepeth thee daily from hunger and cold . To all men be courteous , yea and mannerly both , For fear lest thy betters thy presence do loath : For youth without manners no man can abide , Much like a poor Beggar possessed with pride . Thy garments unbutton'd delight not to wear , Lest slovenly nickname fallen unto thy share : Thy Hose ungartered deserveth like shame , Whereby thou wilt purchase thy Tutor much blame . Be comely and decent in all thy array , Not wantonly given to sport and to play : But labour by virtue , in youth to obtain The love of thy betters , their friendship to gain . I likewise command thee this lesson to keep , No longer than due time delight not to sleep ; Lest sloth in thy bosom such harbour do find , As will cause thee be termed a sluggerd by kind , The morning appearing rise thou with speed , Wash hands and face cleanly before thou go feed , Let shoes be fast tied both close to thy feet The better to travel all day in the street . Thy shirt-band most comely about thy neck wear , Have handkerchief likewise both cleanly and fair : With hat ready brushed , that people may say , There goes a child cleanly in all his array . Go never untrussed , for fear of the cold , For it does endanger both the young and old , Thy Girdle forget not , I put thee in mind , No Girdle , no blessing that day thou shalt find . If thou be a Scholar , to School make good haste , For he is a Truant that comes there last , For if thou dost loiter and play by the way , Be sure with thy Master it will cause a fray . But being their placed , I charge thee to look Thou loose not thy Inkehorne , thy Pen , nor thy book , Thy Garters , thy Girdle , thy band , nor thy Hat . For fear lest thy Parents be grieved thereat . Swear not , nor curse not , delight not to steal , Thy master obey thou , his secrets conceal , Take heed of false lying , set no man at strife , Nor be thou too desperate to strike with a knife . among thy Companions be Gentle and kind , If that thou their favours dost look for to find For gentleness gains thee love from a foe , And gets thee glory wherever thou go . Play not , nor laugh not , thy Master to fret , When thou among Scholars art orderly set , For silence is virtue , and virtue is grace , Which ought to be used , thy betters in place . Thus you good Children and Scholars each one , Here in good order your follies are shown : In following these precepts you purchase always , The love of your Parents , and Schoolmasters praise But if that in idleness you do delight , Refusing these Lessons here plainly in sighed , Look for no kindness no favour nor love , But your Master's displeasure , if you him move . Therefore be wary you do not offend , Your Parents , your Master , nor injure your friend , Lest stripes do reward you , and make you to say , Your Precepts I'll follow , your words I'll obey . And now to conclude bear this well in mind , A diligent Scholar much favour shall find : But such as will loiter , and lazy will be , Shall for their labour be brought on their knee , FINIS . The second Table of good Nurture ; To the tune of , Troy Town . THen learn to honour God aright , let love and fear thereto provoke : Obey thy Prince with all thy might , submit thy self to prudence yoke . Embrace the good , eschew the ill , This is the sum of wisdoms skill . To know thy self do thou apply , first try thy friend before thou trus Love him that deals faithfully , let word and deed be alwaes just , Strive not to swim against the stream , Account not of a drowsy dream . Faint not though fortune favours fools , fret not at others good success : Delight to fit in learned Schools , thy former faults seek to redress . Spurn not at him that tells thy crime , Mend it against another time . Acquaint thy self with some grave man mark well his talk and trade of life His word of wit see that thou scan , within thy mouth let them be rife . Desire to imitate his trade , By use like him thou shalt be made . Wish for no wealth by parents death , a friend far passes worldly good : And while the body yields breath , seek not for to exceed in food . For great excess of meat and drink , Will cause thy soul in sin to sink . If fortune smile be not too proud , for why she hath a frowning face : If in her love thy self thou shroud , make much of her while thou hast space Her whirling wheel does turn full oft , Some lie full low , some fleet aloft . Think not thine own wit to be best . keep not the crew of cogging mates , To swear and lie do thou detest , for thereby credit oft abates . Beware of brazen face passed shame , And love to live in honest fame . Where too much courtesy is used , take heed of frawd and subtle guile , Good nature oft times is abused , in simple sighed with subtle wile , When all is said and all is done , Yet craft lies under clouted shoone . Report not on the present time , but mark also what may ensue , For crack of credit is a crime , change not and old friend for a new ; The secret council of thy heart , Take heed to whom thou dost impart , Praise no man till thou do him know , dispraise not rashly any wight Lest shame thereby to thee may grow , fair words are best place thine aright To wisdoms school thus must thou go , And say experience taught thee so . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. A Table of good Nurture : Wherein is contained a Schoolmasters admonition to his Scholars to learn good manners : the Father to his Children to learn virtue : and the House - holder to his Servants to learn godliness . To the tune of , The Earl of Bedford . GOod Children , refuse not these lessons to learn , The pathway to virtue you here may discern , In keeping them truly , you shall be most sure , The praise of all people thereby to procure . Let God first be served , who all things does give , That by his good blessing thou long time mayest live : And then to thy Parents thy duty unfold , Who keepeth thee daily from hunger and cold . To all men be courteous , yea and mannerly both , For fear lest thy betters thy presence do loath : For youth without manners no man can abide , Much like a poor Beggar possessed with pride . Thy garments unbutton'd delight not to wear , Lest slovenly nickname fallen unto thy share : Thy Hose ungartered deserveth like shame , Whereby thou wilt purchase thy Tutor much blame . Be comely and decent in all thy array , Not wantonly given to sport and to play : But labour by virtue , in youth to obtain The love of thy betters , their friendship to gain . I likewise command thee this lesson to keep , No longer than due time delight not to sleep ; Lest sloth in thy bosom such harbour do find , As will cause thee be termed a sluggerd by kind , The morning appearing rise thou with speed , Wash hands and face cleanly before thou go feed , Let shoes be fast tied both close to thy feet The better to travel all day in the street . Thy shirt-band most comely about thy neck wear , Have handkerchief likewise both cleanly and fair : With hat ready brushed , that people may say , There goes a child cleanly in all his array . Go never untrussed , for fear of the cold , For it does endanger both the young and old , Thy Girdle forget not , I put thee in mind , No Girdle , no blessing that day thou shalt find . If thou be a Scholar , to School make good haste , For he is a Truant that comes there last , For if thou dost loiter and play by the way , Be sure with thy Master it will cause a fray . But being their placed , I charge thee to look Thou loose not thy Inkehorne , thy Pen , nor thy book , Thy Garters , thy Girdle , thy band , nor thy Hat . For fear lest thy Parents be grieved thereat . Swear not , nor curse not , delight not to steal , Thy master obey thou , his secrets conceal , Take heed of false lying , set no man at strife , Nor be thou too desperate to strike with a knife . among thy Companions be Gentle and kind , If that thou their favours dost look for to find For gentleness gains thee love from a foe , And gets thee glory wherever thou go . Play not , nor laugh not , thy Master to fret , When thou among Scholars art orderly set , For silence is virtue , and virtue is grace , Which ought to be used , thy betters in place . Thus you good Children and Scholars each one , Here in good order your follies are shown : In following these precepts you purchase always , The love of your Parents , and Schoolmasters praise But if that in idleness you do delight , Refusing these Lessons here plainly in sighed , Look for no kindness no favour nor love , But your Master's displeasure , if you him move . Therefore be wary you do not offend , Your Parents , your Master , nor injure your friend , Lest stripes do reward you , and make you to say , Your Precepts I'll follow , your words I'll obey . And now to conclude bear this well in mind , A diligent Scholar much favour shall find : But such as will loiter , and lazy will be , Shall for their labour be brought on their knee , FINIS . The second Table of good Nurture ; To the tune of , Troy Town . THen learn to honour God aright , let love and fear thereto provoke : Obey thy Prince with all thy might , submit thy self to prudence yoke . Embrace the good , eschew the ill , This is the sum of wisdoms skill . To know thy self do thou apply , first try thy friend before thou trus Love him that deals faithfully , let word and deed be alwaes just , Strive not to swim against the stream , Account not of a drowsy dream . Faint not though fortune favours fools , fret not at others good success : Delight to fit in learned Schools , thy former faults seek to redress . Spurn not at him that tells thy crime , Mend it against another time . Acquaint thy self with some grave man mark well his talk and trade of life His word of wit see that thou scan , within thy mouth let them be rife . Desire to imitate his trade , By use like him thou shalt be made . Wish for no wealth by parents death , a friend far passes worldly good : And while the body yields breath , seek not for to exceed in food . For great excess of meat and drink , Will cause thy soul in sin to sink . If fortune smile be not too proud , for why she hath a frowning face : If in her love thy self thou shroud , make much of her while thou hast space Her whirling wheel does turn full oft , Some lie full low , some fleet aloft . Think not thine own wit to be best . keep not the crew of cogging mates , To swear and lie do thou detest , for thereby credit oft abates . Beware of brazen face passed shame , And love to live in honest fame . Where too much courtesy is used , take heed of frawd and subtle guile , Good nature oft times is abused , in simple sighed with subtle wile , When all is said and all is done , Yet craft lies under clouted shoone . Report not on the present time , but mark also what may ensue , For crack of credit is a crime , change not and old friend for a new ; The secret council of thy heart , Take heed to whom thou dost impart , Praise no man till thou do him know , dispraise not rashly any wight Lest shame thereby to thee may grow , fair words are best place thine aright To wisdoms school thus must thou go , And say experience taught thee so . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. 