Take time while 'tis offered . For Tom has broke his word with his sweating , And lost a good wife for and hours meeting , Another goodfellow has got the Lass , And Tom may go shake his long ears like and Ass . To the tune of Within the North country . WHen Titans fiery Steeds Were lodged in the West , And every beast and feathered fowl , Betook themselves to rest . Abroad I walked then To take the evenings air , Hard by a gentle gliding stream I saw a damosel fair . Sweet Tom , quoth she , make haste , Why dost thou stay so long ? If thou dost not thy promise keep , Alas thou dost me wrong . Thou knowest I ventured have To meet thee here to night , Why then wilt thou for my true love , Me churlishly requite ? If that my mother knew That I this time was missing , To meet with thee , shee'd swear that I Should never have her blessing . Yet is my love so fixed , Though I were sure to die , I would be sure to meet with thee , Love lends me wings to fly . But now I well perceive , When maids love young men best , They use them like their servile slaves , And thus am I oppressed . At first they woo and pray , And many oaths they swear , Until like birds they have them caught Into their crafty snare . Then will they us reject , And scorn us to our face ; Thus for our kindness oft we are Rewarded with disgrace . This I my self have proved That here I do report . For he to whom I gave my heart Makes me his laughing sport . The second Part. To the same tune . THis night he promised me To meet at five a clock , Which houre's long passed , therefore I doubt With me he does but mock . While I fit sighing here , He's bragging to his mates , That his sweetheart within the fields , Now for his coming waits . Thus like a Lion fierce , He insulteth over his prey , Alas there is no remedy , Being bound , I must obey . Hard hearted creature here To serve me in this kind , His flattering tonge hath wrought my bane , As now with grief I find . Alas what shall I do , I am possessed with fear , For rather then I'll homeward go , My life I'll finish here . For if that I go home , My father he will brawl , My mother she will second him , And that's the worst of all . Sheele tell me I have been A gadding after Tom , Sheele sweart I'll never leave these tricks , Till I come leaden home . If he would meet me here , Those words I well could bear , For when that I am armed with love , Their taunts I do not fear . Sweet Tom make haste away , Or else I shall despair , For home until I see thy face I mean not to repair . What should the reason be , That thou wilt me neglect , For I have cast thy betters off Thy person to affect . If me thou dost forsake . Look never to find the like ; Me thinks experience might thee teach , While the Iron's hight to strike . My portion is not small , My parentage not base , My lookingglass informs me that I have a comely face . Yet have I made a choice Against my parents will , With one so mean , who cruelly My tender heart does kill . I hearing her say so , Did boldly to her come , The night was dark , and she believed That I was her own Tom. She blam'd my tarrying long , Which I did well excuse , I prayed her weened along with me , Which she did not refuse : Supposing all this while That I had been her Tom ; She swore she had rather go with me , Then to go ever home . Thus Tom has lost his Lass Because he broke his vow , And I have raised my fortune's well , The case is altered now . FINIS . M.P. Printed for Richard Harper . Take time while 'tis offered . For Tom has broke his word with his sweating , And lost a good wife for and hours meeting , Another goodfellow has got the Lass , And Tom may go shake his long ears like and Ass . To the tune of Within the North country . WHen Titans fiery Steeds Were lodged in the West , And every beast and feathered fowl , Betook themselves to rest . Abroad I walked then To take the evenings air , Hard by a gentle gliding stream I saw a damosel fair . Sweet Tom , quoth she , make haste , Why dost thou stay so long ? If thou dost not thy promise keep , Alas thou dost me wrong . Thou knowest I ventured have To meet thee here to night , Why then wilt thou for my true love , Me churlishly requite ? If that my mother knew That I this time was missing , To meet with thee , shee'd swear that I Should never have her blessing . Yet is my love so fixed , Though I were sure to die , I would be sure to meet with thee , Love lends me wings to fly . But now I well perceive , When maids love young men best , They use them like their servile slaves , And thus am I oppressed . At first they woo and pray , And many oaths they swear , Until like birds they have them caught Into their crafty snare . Then will they us reject , And scorn us to our face ; Thus for our kindness oft we are Rewarded with disgrace . This I my self have proved That here I do report . For he to whom I gave my heart Makes me his laughing sport . The second Part. To the same tune . THis night he promised me To meet at five a clock , Which houre's long passed , therefore I doubt With me he does but mock . While I fit sighing here , He's bragging to his mates , That his sweetheart within the fields , Now for his coming waits . Thus like a Lion fierce , He insulteth over his prey , Alas there is no remedy , Being bound , I must obey . Hard hearted creature here To serve me in this kind , His flattering tonge hath wrought my bane , As now with grief I find . Alas what shall I do , I am possessed with fear , For rather then I'll homeward go , My life I'll finish here . For if that I go home , My father he will brawl , My mother she will second him , And that's the worst of all . Sheele tell me I have been A gadding after Tom , Sheele sweart I'll never leave these tricks , Till I come leaden home . If he would meet me here , Those words I well could bear , For when that I am armed with love , Their taunts I do not fear . Sweet Tom make haste away , Or else I shall despair , For home until I see thy face I mean not to repair . What should the reason be , That thou wilt me neglect , For I have cast thy betters off Thy person to affect . If me thou dost forsake . Look never to find the like ; Me thinks experience might thee teach , While the Iron's hight to strike . My portion is not small , My parentage not base , My lookingglass informs me that I have a comely face . Yet have I made a choice Against my parents will , With one so mean , who cruelly My tender heart does kill . I hearing her say so , Did boldly to her come , The night was dark , and she believed That I was her own Tom. She blam'd my tarrying long , Which I did well excuse , I prayed her weened along with me , Which she did not refuse : Supposing all this while That I had been her Tom ; She swore she had rather go with me , Then to go ever home . Thus Tom has lost his Lass Because he broke his vow , And I have raised my fortune's well , The case is altered now . FINIS . M.P. Printed for Richard Harper . 