There's nothing to be had without money , OR He that brings money in his hand Is sure to speed by sea or land , But he that hath no coin inns purse His fortune is a great deal worse , Then happy are they that always have A penny in purse their credit to save . To a new Northern tune , Or the Mother beguil'd the Daughter . YOu gallants and you swagring blades Give ear unto my ditty , I am a boon companion known In country , town , and city , I always lov'd to wear good clothes , And ever scorned to take blows , I am belov'd of all me knows , But god a mercy penny . My father was a man well known That us'd to hoard up money , His bags of gold he said to him More sweeter were than honey , But I his son will let it fly , In tavern , or in ordinary , I am beloved in company , But god a mercy penny . All sorts of men both far and near Where ever I resorted , My fellowship esteemed deer , Because I was reported To be a man of noted fame , Some said I well deserv'd the same , Thus have I god a gallant name , But god a mercy penny . All parts of London I have tried Where merchant's wares are plenty , The Royal Exchange and fair cheapeside With speeches fine and dainty , They bring me in for to behold Their shops of silver and of gold , There might I choose what wares I would But god a mercy penny . For my contentment once a day I walked for recreation , Through Pauls , Ludgate , & Fleet-street gay , To raise and elevation : Sometime my humour is to range , To Temple , Strand , and new Exchange To see their fashions rare and strange ; But god a mercy penny . I have been in Westminster hall Where learned lawyers plead , And shown my bill among them all Which when they see and read , My actium quickly hath been tried No party there my suit denied , Each one spoke bravely on my side : But god a mercy penny . The second part . To the same tune . THe famous abbey I have seen And have the pictures view'd , Of many a noble king and Queen Which are by death subdu'd , And having seen the sights most rare , The water men full ready were Me over the river of Thames To bear ; But god a mercy penny . [ ? ] ear garden when I do frequent [ Or ] 'th Globe on the bankeside , [ ? ] h' afford to me most rare content As [ I ] full oft have tried , The best pastime that they can make They instantly will undertake , For my delight and pleasure sake , But god a mercy penny . In every place whereas I came Both I and my sweet penny , Got entertainment in the same And god the love of many : Both Tapsters , Cooks , and Vintners fine With other jovial friends of mine , Will pledge my health in beer or wine , But god a mercy penny . Good fellows company I us'd As also honest women , The painted drabs I still refus'd And wenches that are common , There luring looks I do despise They seem so loathsome in mine eyes , Yet one a project did devise To gull me of my penny . One evening as I passed a long A lass with borrowed hair , Was singing of a tempting song , Kind Sir quoth she , draw near , But he that bites this rotten crab May after chance to catch the scab . No pander , baud , nor painted drab , Shall gull me of a penny . But curled hair and painted face I ever have refrained , All those that get their living base In heart I have disdained , My conscience is not stained with pitch , No tempting tongue shall me bewitch , Il'e make no punk nor pander rich , Il'e rather keep my penny . Yet will I never niggard be While I remain on earth , But spend my money frolickely In friendship love and mirth . I'le drink my bear , I'le pay my score And eke dispense some of my store , And to the needy and the poor , I'le freely give my penny . Thus to conclude as I began I wholly am inclin'd , Wishing that each true hearted man A faithful friend may find : You that my verses stay to hear Draw money for to buy me beer , The price of it is not too deer T'will cost you but a penny . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. There's nothing to be had without money , OR He that brings money in his hand Is sure to speed by sea or land , But he that hath no coin inns purse His fortune is a great deal worse , Then happy are they that always have A penny in purse their credit to save . To a new Northern tune , Or the Mother beguil'd the Daughter . YOu gallants and you swagring blades Give ear unto my ditty , I am a boon companion known In country , town , and city , I always lov'd to wear good clothes , And ever scorned to take blows , I am belov'd of all me knows , But god a mercy penny . My father was a man well known That us'd to hoard up money , His bags of gold he said to him More sweeter were than honey , But I his son will let it fly , In tavern , or in ordinary , I am beloved in company , But god a mercy penny . All sorts of men both far and near Where ever I resorted , My fellowship esteemed deer , Because I was reported To be a man of noted fame , Some said I well deserv'd the same , Thus have I god a gallant name , But god a mercy penny . All parts of London I have tried Where merchant's wares are plenty , The Royal Exchange and fair cheapeside With speeches fine and dainty , They bring me in for to behold Their shops of silver and of gold , There might I choose what wares I would But god a mercy penny . For my contentment once a day I walked for recreation , Through Pauls , Ludgate , & Fleet-street gay , To raise and elevation : Sometime my humour is to range , To Temple , Strand , and new Exchange To see their fashions rare and strange ; But god a mercy penny . I have been in Westminster hall Where learned lawyers plead , And shown my bill among them all Which when they see and read , My actium quickly hath been tried No party there my suit denied , Each one spoke bravely on my side : But god a mercy penny . The second part . To the same tune . THe famous abbey I have seen And have the pictures view'd , Of many a noble king and Queen Which are by death subdu'd , And having seen the sights most rare , The water men full ready were Me over the river of Thames To bear ; But god a mercy penny . [ ? ] ear garden when I do frequent [ Or ] 'th Globe on the bankeside , [ ? ] h' afford to me most rare content As [ I ] full oft have tried , The best pastime that they can make They instantly will undertake , For my delight and pleasure sake , But god a mercy penny . In every place whereas I came Both I and my sweet penny , Got entertainment in the same And god the love of many : Both Tapsters , Cooks , and Vintners fine With other jovial friends of mine , Will pledge my health in beer or wine , But god a mercy penny . Good fellows company I us'd As also honest women , The painted drabs I still refus'd And wenches that are common , There luring looks I do despise They seem so loathsome in mine eyes , Yet one a project did devise To gull me of my penny . One evening as I passed a long A lass with borrowed hair , Was singing of a tempting song , Kind Sir quoth she , draw near , But he that bites this rotten crab May after chance to catch the scab . No pander , baud , nor painted drab , Shall gull me of a penny . But curled hair and painted face I ever have refrained , All those that get their living base In heart I have disdained , My conscience is not stained with pitch , No tempting tongue shall me bewitch , Il'e make no punk nor pander rich , Il'e rather keep my penny . Yet will I never niggard be While I remain on earth , But spend my money frolickely In friendship love and mirth . I'le drink my bear , I'le pay my score And eke dispense some of my store , And to the needy and the poor , I'le freely give my penny . Thus to conclude as I began I wholly am inclin'd , Wishing that each true hearted man A faithful friend may find : You that my verses stay to hear Draw money for to buy me beer , The price of it is not too deer T'will cost you but a penny . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. 