r The two Lester-sheire Lovers . To the tune of , and yet my thinks I love thee . Walking In a meadow green , for recreation sake , To drive away some sad thoughts which sorrofull did me make , I spied two lonely lovers , did bear each others woe . To point a place of meeting , upon the meadow bro . Saying come my lovely sweating , come fit thee down by me . It is a merry meeting if we two can agree . If we two can agree , to this I thee do woe . That thou shouldst only meet me : upon the meadow brow . My Father is a gentleman , my Mother loves me deer : She hath given me a newetie , of twenty pound a year , And I have spent it all , nay more I will spend toe : So thou wilt grant to meet me , upon the meadow broe , My Master hath forwarnd me , out of thy company , And oftentimes hath chid me : for staying so long with thee , For staying so long with thee , but I will stay the more : So thou wilt grant to meet me , upon the meadow broe . Sweet heart quoth she I cannot , for opertunitie ; A thing I can't accomplish , our meetng does deny Else shoulds thou me commend : to ride to run or go : Were it not so I'de meet thee , upon the meadow bro . Sweet heart quoth he who fear you , or who dares do thee wrong , Dost fear thy masters Heavy hand : or mistress nimble tongue , Dost fear the tell tale servants tut let such matters go . And prithe sweating meet me , upon the meadow bro . Quoth she you do mistake sir , t'is no such thing I fear , Therefore to urge it farther : I do entreat forbear , I do not greatly care , for ought that they can do . Another thing does hinder me , to meet on meadow bro . What should the occasion then be , Oh thou shouldst be so presise , [ O ] r what is it should cause thee : in love to be unwise . Dost thou my love despise , or wouldst thou love forgo , I pray thee sweating meet me , upon the meadow bro . The Second Part. I Tell thee gentle sweating , Queen Venus never run : So swift after Adonis , as I to thee would come , Queen Dina in her shower of gold , did not so willing doe . As I would be to meet thee . upon the meadow bro . Qouth he as did Dame Venus , wouldst thou of me make trial , I would not like Adonis , so fondly give denial . No for thy sake my sweating , all ill I under go . So thou wouldst grant to met me , upon the meadow bro . Sir since I see you are loving , i'le tell to you the cause , You know both maids and young men live under countries laws . And should we be but spied , we should have men enough : Where we should be derided , upon the meadow brow . If this be all you fear sweet , leave this alone to me . I'le point a time convenient , non shall our meeting see . Where we will merry be , and talk of whats to do Where a kiss or twaine i'le give thee , upon the meadow brooe , I when you have me there Sir , you then may do your pleasure : But I will have you swear sir , style for to do in measure . we might repent at leisure , should we out of measure do : I am half afraid to meet you , upon the meadow brooe . Sweet heart I hear protest and swear to use you there most kind , Keep promise in your meeting , and love me as you find , I will not cross your mind , what so ever I do do , So you would grant to meet me : upon the meadow brooe . Then heres my hand i'le meet thee , appoint both place and time Quoth he upon the meadow brooe tomorrow morn betime . I'le meet ( quoth she ) bout five a clock and thats the most i'le do : So gentle heart a kiss and part , and meet on meadow brow . Away then went these loving , twaine but when that they did meet : Let such as know the use out , judge how these two did greet : But might I spend my judgement , as and other man may do . I doubt they played the wantons , upon the meadow brooe , What ere they did might I but know my tongue should prove no ranger , But did they well or did they ill , let them oppose the danger . Yet this shall be my wish for all , that about such business go . Heaven send all merry meeting , upon the meadow broe . FINIS At London Printed for John Trundler The two Lester-sheire Lovers . To the tune of , and yet my thinks I love thee . Walking In a meadow green , for recreation sake , To drive away some sad thoughts which sorrofull did me make , I spied two lonely lovers , did bear each others woe . To point a place of meeting , upon the meadow bro . Saying come my lovely sweating , come fit thee down by me . It is a merry meeting if we two can agree . If we two can agree , to this I thee do woe . That thou shouldst only meet me : upon the meadow brow . My Father is a gentleman , my Mother loves me deer : She hath given me a newetie , of twenty pound a year , And I have spent it all , nay more I will spend toe : So thou wilt grant to meet me , upon the meadow broe , My Master hath forwarnd me , out of thy company , And oftentimes hath chid me : for staying so long with thee , For staying so long with thee , but I will stay the more : So thou wilt grant to meet me , upon the meadow broe . Sweet heart quoth she I cannot , for opertunitie ; A thing I can't accomplish , our meetng does deny Else shoulds thou me commend : to ride to run or go : Were it not so I'de meet thee , upon the meadow bro . Sweet heart quoth he who fear you , or who dares do thee wrong , Dost fear thy masters Heavy hand : or mistress nimble tongue , Dost fear the tell tale servants tut let such matters go . And prithe sweating meet me , upon the meadow bro . Quoth she you do mistake sir , t'is no such thing I fear , Therefore to urge it farther : I do entreat forbear , I do not greatly care , for ought that they can do . Another thing does hinder me , to meet on meadow bro . What should the occasion then be , Oh thou shouldst be so presise , [ O ] r what is it should cause thee : in love to be unwise . Dost thou my love despise , or wouldst thou love forgo , I pray thee sweating meet me , upon the meadow bro . The Second Part. I Tell thee gentle sweating , Queen Venus never run : So swift after Adonis , as I to thee would come , Queen Dina in her shower of gold , did not so willing doe . As I would be to meet thee . upon the meadow bro . Qouth he as did Dame Venus , wouldst thou of me make trial , I would not like Adonis , so fondly give denial . No for thy sake my sweating , all ill I under go . So thou wouldst grant to met me , upon the meadow bro . Sir since I see you are loving , i'le tell to you the cause , You know both maids and young men live under countries laws . And should we be but spied , we should have men enough : Where we should be derided , upon the meadow brow . If this be all you fear sweet , leave this alone to me . I'le point a time convenient , non shall our meeting see . Where we will merry be , and talk of whats to do Where a kiss or twaine i'le give thee , upon the meadow brooe , I when you have me there Sir , you then may do your pleasure : But I will have you swear sir , style for to do in measure . we might repent at leisure , should we out of measure do : I am half afraid to meet you , upon the meadow brooe . Sweet heart I hear protest and swear to use you there most kind , Keep promise in your meeting , and love me as you find , I will not cross your mind , what so ever I do do , So you would grant to meet me : upon the meadow brooe . Then heres my hand i'le meet thee , appoint both place and time Quoth he upon the meadow brooe tomorrow morn betime . I'le meet ( quoth she ) bout five a clock and thats the most i'le do : So gentle heart a kiss and part , and meet on meadow brow . Away then went these loving , twaine but when that they did meet : Let such as know the use out , judge how these two did greet : But might I spend my judgement , as and other man may do . I doubt they played the wantons , upon the meadow brooe , What ere they did might I but know my tongue should prove no ranger , But did they well or did they ill , let them oppose the danger . Yet this shall be my wish for all , that about such business go . Heaven send all merry meeting , upon the meadow broe . FINIS At London Printed for John Trundle 