The Tragedy of Phillis , complaining of the disloyal Love of Amyntas . To a pleasant new Court Tune . AMyntas on a Summer's day , to shun Apollo's beams , Was driving of his flocks away , to taste some cooling streams , And through a Forest as he went , unto a river side , A voice which from a grove was sent invited him to bide . The voice well seem'd for to bewray some malcontented mind : For oft times did he hear it say , Ten thousand times unkind , The remnant of that raged moan , did all escape his ear : For every word brought forth a groan , and every groan a tear . And nearer when he did repair , both face and voice he knew : He saw that Phillis was come there , her plaints for to renew . Thus leaving her unto her plaints , and sorrow-slaking groans : He herd her deadly discontents , thus all break forth at once . Amyntas , is my love to thee , of such a light account , That thou disdainest to look on me , or love as thou wast wone Were those the oaths that thou didst make , the vows thou didst conceive , When I for thy contentment's sake , mine hearts delight did leave : How oft didst thou protest to me , the heavens should turn to nought , The Sun should first obscured be , er'e thou wouldst change thy though ? Then Heaven , dissolve without delay , Sun show thy face no more : Amyntas love is lost for aye , and woe is me therefore . Well might I , if I had been wise , foreseen what now I find : But two much love did fill mine eyes , and made my judgement blind : But ah , alas : th' effect does prove , thy drifts were but deceit , For true and undissembled love , will never turn to hate . All thy behaviours were ( God knows ) too smooth and too discree Like Sugar which empoisoned grows , suspect because it's swee Thine oaths & vows did promise more , then well thou couldst perform , Much like a calm that comes before and unsuspected storm . God knows , it would not grieve me much , for to be kill'd for thee : But o : too near it does me touch , that thou shouldst murder me : God knows , I care not for the pain can come for want of breath : 'Tis thy unkindness cruel swain , that grieves me to the death . Amyntas , tell me , if thou may , if any fault of mine , Hath given thee cause thus to betray mine hearts delight and thine ? No , no , alas , it could not be , my love to thee was such , Unless if that I urged thee , in loving thee to much . But ah , alas , what do I gain , by these my found complaints ? My dolour double thy disdain , my grief thy joy augments : Although it ye [ l ] worser no greater good , it oft does ease my mind : For to reproach the ingratitude of him who is unkind . With that , her hand , cold , wan , and pale , upon her breast she lays : And seeing that her breath did fail , she sighs , and then she says , Amyntas , and with that , poor maid , she sigh'd again full soar : That after that she never said , nor sigh'd , nor breath'd no more . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Tragedy of Phillis , complaining of the disloyal Love of Amyntas . To a pleasant new Court Tune . AMyntas on a Summer's day , to shun Apollo's beams , Was driving of his flocks away , to taste some cooling streams , And through a Forest as he went , unto a river side , A voice which from a grove was sent invited him to bide . The voice well seem'd for to bewray some malcontented mind : For oft times did he hear it say , Ten thousand times unkind , The remnant of that raged moan , did all escape his ear : For every word brought forth a groan , and every groan a tear . And nearer when he did repair , both face and voice he knew : He saw that Phillis was come there , her plaints for to renew . Thus leaving her unto her plaints , and sorrow-slaking groans : He herd her deadly discontents , thus all break forth at once . Amyntas , is my love to thee , of such a light account , That thou disdainest to look on me , or love as thou wast wone Were those the oaths that thou didst make , the vows thou didst conceive , When I for thy contentment's sake , mine hearts delight did leave : How oft didst thou protest to me , the heavens should turn to nought , The Sun should first obscured be , er'e thou wouldst change thy though ? Then Heaven , dissolve without delay , Sun show thy face no more : Amyntas love is lost for aye , and woe is me therefore . Well might I , if I had been wise , foreseen what now I find : But two much love did fill mine eyes , and made my judgement blind : But ah , alas : th' effect does prove , thy drifts were but deceit , For true and undissembled love , will never turn to hate . All thy behaviours were ( God knows ) too smooth and too discree Like Sugar which empoisoned grows , suspect because it's swee Thine oaths & vows did promise more , then well thou couldst perform , Much like a calm that comes before and unsuspected storm . God knows , it would not grieve me much , for to be kill'd for thee : But o : too near it does me touch , that thou shouldst murder me : God knows , I care not for the pain can come for want of breath : 'Tis thy unkindness cruel swain , that grieves me to the death . Amyntas , tell me , if thou may , if any fault of mine , Hath given thee cause thus to betray mine hearts delight and thine ? No , no , alas , it could not be , my love to thee was such , Unless if that I urged thee , in loving thee to much . But ah , alas , what do I gain , by these my found complaints ? My dolour double thy disdain , my grief thy joy augments : Although it ye [ l ] worser no greater good , it oft does ease my mind : For to reproach the ingratitude of him who is unkind . With that , her hand , cold , wan , and pale , upon her breast she lays : And seeing that her breath did fail , she sighs , and then she says , Amyntas , and with that , poor maid , she sigh'd again full soar : That after that she never said , nor sigh'd , nor breath'd no more . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 