A pleasant new Ballad of Tobias : wherein is showed the wonderful things which chanced to him in his youth ; and how he wedded a young Damsel that had had seven husbands and never enjoyed their company : who were all slain by a wicked spirit . IN Ninivie old Toby dwelled , and aged man and blind was he , And much affliction he had felt , which brought him unto poverty . He had by Anna his true wife , one only son and eke no more , Which was the comfort of his life , and he by him did set great store . He brought him up most virtuously , in true obedience and awe , And every day he did apply , to fear the Lord and keep his Law . Upon a time it came to pass , he call'd to him his son with speed , And thus to him his words did frame , my son , quoth he , thou knost my need . Thou must unto Gabael go , at Raguels in Media land , For I did lend him long ago , ten talents on his only band . My father deer Tobias said , at your command straight will I go , How shall I get the money paid , seeing the man I did never know ? Take here the writing then , quoth he , which is sufficient being seen , And get a guide to go with thee , sith thou that way hast never been . A Guide Tobias son had god , and Angel in the shape of man , Which thing he did not know God wot , the Lord did so appoint it thun . Tobias with his blessed guide , went on his journey then with speed : Until they came to Tigris side , at that fair flood they did abide . Tobias would wash him there , by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty fish put him in fear , which leapt out of the waters great . Cut up the fish , the Angel said , but keep the Liver , Heart , and Gall , To do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall be done withal . When this was done , away they went , and coming near their journeys end , Wee'll lodge to night the Angel said , with Raguel thy father's friend . He hath a daughter fair of face , and also of a virtuous life , And when we come into that place , I'll speak that she may be thy wife . Why Azarias , then quoth he , so Toby did the Angel call , I wis she is no mate for me , swift death does to her Lovers fallen . Seven men have to her married been . which in her love did take delight , When her bedchamber they have seen , they have not liv'd out half the night . A wicked spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any man , With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what he can . The Angel said , good courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the wicked spirit away shall flee . To Raguels house away they came , where Sara met them fair and bright , And after salutations done , she brought him to her Parents sighed . The second part , to the same tune . Great cheer they made & down they sat , and all for young Tobias sake ; And after long and pleasant chat , betwixt these two a match they made . By Moses Law they married were , the Brides chamber prepar'd likewise : When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sara's eyes . A pan of coals he brought with him , the fish heart and liver there Within that fire did he cast in , which cast a savour every where . And by that sweet and precious smell , the wicked spirit was displac't , Within that room he could not dwell , where out away he went in haste . In bed they laid the beauteous Bride , the chamber door they shut therefore , Young Toby lay down by her side , whom he did think to see no more . And therefore Raguel in the night for him before had made a grave ; And to his wife he wept , and said , there is no means his life to save . One of the maidens send , quoth he , to see how all the matter stands : If it be so that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . The maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive , quoth she , When Raguel herd of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly . For joy he made a solemn feast , the Bridal foureteene days he kept , Thereto came many a friendly gues in sorrow now no more they slept . Then Azarias went straight way , and to the feast Gabael brought , Rejoicing at this marriage day , did pay the money which he ought . But yet old Toby and his wife did all the time in sorrow dwell , They thought their son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel . His aged mother every day did watch along the high way side , And for his welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was , young Toby with his lovely Bride , To Ninivy did homeward pass , with goods and cattle on each side . But Toby and the Angel bright , before his Wife made haste to go , For to prepare all things aright his lovely Bride to welcome though . His mother watching in the way , full soon espy'd her tender son , Rejoicing at the happy day , she told her husband he was come . Whereat old Toby stumbled out , for he was blind , and could not see : Young Toby with the fish Gall rub'd both his eyes immediately . Whereat the whiteness of his eyes incontinent did fallen out quite : So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighed . Great joy was then on every side , young Toby told his father all : Who went to meet his lovely Bride , with joy and mirth that was not small Printed at London for F. Coules dwelling in the Old-Baily . Finis . A pleasant new Ballad of Tobias : wherein is showed the wonderful things which chanced to him in his youth ; and how he wedded a young Damsel that had had seven husbands and never enjoyed their company : who were all slain by a wicked spirit . IN Ninivie old Toby dwelled , and aged man and blind was he , And much affliction he had felt , which brought him unto poverty . He had by Anna his true wife , one only son and eke no more , Which was the comfort of his life , and he by him did set great store . He brought him up most virtuously , in true obedience and awe , And every day he did apply , to fear the Lord and keep his Law . Upon a time it came to pass , he call'd to him his son with speed , And thus to him his words did frame , my son , quoth he , thou knost my need . Thou must unto Gabael go , at Raguels in Media land , For I did lend him long ago , ten talents on his only band . My father deer Tobias said , at your command straight will I go , How shall I get the money paid , seeing the man I did never know ? Take here the writing then , quoth he , which is sufficient being seen , And get a guide to go with thee , sith thou that way hast never been . A Guide Tobias son had god , and Angel in the shape of man , Which thing he did not know God wot , the Lord did so appoint it thun . Tobias with his blessed guide , went on his journey then with speed : Until they came to Tigris side , at that fair flood they did abide . Tobias would wash him there , by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty fish put him in fear , which leapt out of the waters great . Cut up the fish , the Angel said , but keep the Liver , Heart , and Gall , To do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall be done withal . When this was done , away they went , and coming near their journeys end , Wee'll lodge to night the Angel said , with Raguel thy father's friend . He hath a daughter fair of face , and also of a virtuous life , And when we come into that place , I'll speak that she may be thy wife . Why Azarias , then quoth he , so Toby did the Angel call , I wis she is no mate for me , swift death does to her Lovers fallen . Seven men have to her married been . which in her love did take delight , When her bedchamber they have seen , they have not liv'd out half the night . A wicked spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any man , With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what he can . The Angel said , good courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the wicked spirit away shall flee . To Raguels house away they came , where Sara met them fair and bright , And after salutations done , she brought him to her Parents sighed . The second part , to the same tune . Great cheer they made & down they sat , and all for young Tobias sake ; And after long and pleasant chat , betwixt these two a match they made . By Moses Law they married were , the Brides chamber prepar'd likewise : When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sara's eyes . A pan of coals he brought with him , the fish heart and liver there Within that fire did he cast in , which cast a savour every where . And by that sweet and precious smell , the wicked spirit was displac't , Within that room he could not dwell , where out away he went in haste . In bed they laid the beauteous Bride , the chamber door they shut therefore , Young Toby lay down by her side , whom he did think to see no more . And therefore Raguel in the night for him before had made a grave ; And to his wife he wept , and said , there is no means his life to save . One of the maidens send , quoth he , to see how all the matter stands : If it be so that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . The maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive , quoth she , When Raguel herd of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly . For joy he made a solemn feast , the Bridal foureteene days he kept , Thereto came many a friendly gues in sorrow now no more they slept . Then Azarias went straight way , and to the feast Gabael brought , Rejoicing at this marriage day , did pay the money which he ought . But yet old Toby and his wife did all the time in sorrow dwell , They thought their son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel . His aged mother every day did watch along the high way side , And for his welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was , young Toby with his lovely Bride , To Ninivy did homeward pass , with goods and cattle on each side . But Toby and the Angel bright , before his Wife made haste to go , For to prepare all things aright his lovely Bride to welcome though . His mother watching in the way , full soon espy'd her tender son , Rejoicing at the happy day , she told her husband he was come . Whereat old Toby stumbled out , for he was blind , and could not see : Young Toby with the fish Gall rub'd both his eyes immediately . Whereat the whiteness of his eyes incontinent did fallen out quite : So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighed . Great joy was then on every side , young Toby told his father all : Who went to meet his lovely Bride , with joy and mirth that was not small Printed at London for F. Coules dwelling in the Old-Baily . Finis . 