A true Relation of one Susan Higges , dwelling in Risborrow a Town in Buckinghamshire , and how she lived 20. years , by robbing on the Highways , yet unsuspected of all that knew her , till at last , coming to Messeldon , there robbing a woman ; which woman knew her and called her by her name : now when she saw she was betrayed , she killed her , and standing by her while she gave three groans , she spat three drops of blood in her face , which never could be washed out ; by which she was known and executed for the aforesaid murder at the Assizes in Lent at Brickhill . To the tune of , The worthy London Prentice . TO mourn for my offences , and former passed sins , This sad and doleful story , my heavy heart begins : Most wickedly I spent my time , devoid of godly grace : A lewder woman never liv'd , I think in any place . Near Buckingham I dwelled , and Susan Higges by name , Well thought of by good Gentlemen , and Farmers of good fame : Where thus , for twenty years at least , I liv'd in gallant sor Which made the Country marvel much , to hear of my report . My state was not maintained , ( as you shall understand ) By good and honest dealings , nor labour of my hand : But by deceit and cozening shifts , the end whereof , we see Hath ever been repaid with shame , and ever like to be . My servants were young country girls , brought up unto my mind , By nature fair and beautiful , and of a gentle kind : Who with their sweet enticing eyes , did many Youngsters move To come by night unto my house , in hope of further love . But still at their close meetings , ( as I the plot had laid ) I stepped in still at unawares , while they the wantons played , And would in question bring their names , except they did agree To give me money for this wrong , done to my house and me . This was but petty cozenage , to things that I have done : My weapon by the high way side , hath me much money wone : In men's attire I oft have road , upon a Gelding stout , And done great robberies valiantly , the Countries round about . I had my Scarves and Vizords , my face for to disguise : Sometime a beard upon my chin , to blind the peoples eyes : My Turky Blade , and Pistols good , my courage to maintain : Thus took I many a Farmers purse , well cram'd with golden gain . Great store of London Merchant's , I boldly have bid stand , And showed my self most bravely , a Woman of my hand : You ruffling Roisters every one , in my defence say then we women still for gallant minds may well compare with men . The second part , To the same tune . BUt if so be it chanced , the Countries were beset , With hue , and cries , and warrants , into my house I ge And I so being with my Maids , would cloak the matter so , That no man could by any means , the right offender know . Yet God that still most justly , does punish every vice , Did bring unto confusion my fortune's in a trice : For by a murder all my sins were strangely brought to light , And such desert I had by law , as Justice claimed by right . Upon the Heath of Misseldon , I met a woman there , And rob'd her , as from Market , homeward she did repair , Which woman cal'd me by my name , and said that she me knew ; For which even with her lives deer blood , my hands I did embrue . But after I had wounded , this woman unto death , And that her bleeding body , was almost reft of breath , She gave a groan , and there withal , did spit upon my face , Three drops of blood , that never could be wiped from that place . For after I returned unto my house again . The more that I it wash'd , it more appeared plain : Each hour I thought that beasts and birds , this murder would reveal , Or that the air so vile a deed , no longer would conceal . So heavy at my conscience , this woeful murder lay , That I was soon inforced , the same for to bewray , And to my servants made it known , as God appointed me : For blood can never secret rest , nor long unpunished be . My servants to the Justices , declar'd what I had said ; For which I was attached , and to the Jail convey'd , And at the Sises was condemn'd , and had my just desert Even such a death let all them have that bear so false a heart . So farewell earthly pleasure , my quaintance all adue , With whom I spent the treasure , which causeth me to rue . Leave off your wanton pastimes , lascivious and ill , Which without Gods great mercy , does soul and body kill . Be warned by this story , you ruffling Roisters all : The higher that you climb in sin , the greater is your fallen : And since the world so wicked is , let all desire grace , Grant Lord that I the last may be , that runneth such a raze . FINIS . Printed at London for F.C. dwelling in the Old-Baily . A true Relation of one Susan Higges , dwelling in Risborrow a Town in Buckinghamshire , and how she lived 20. years , by robbing on the Highways , yet unsuspected of all that knew her , till at last , coming to Messeldon , there robbing a woman ; which woman knew her and called her by her name : now when she saw she was betrayed , she killed her , and standing by her while she gave three groans , she spat three drops of blood in her face , which never could be washed out ; by which she was known and executed for the aforesaid murder at the Assizes in Lent at Brickhill . To the tune of , The worthy London Prentice . TO mourn for my offences , and former passed sins , This sad and doleful story , my heavy heart begins : Most wickedly I spent my time , devoid of godly grace : A lewder woman never liv'd , I think in any place . Near Buckingham I dwelled , and Susan Higges by name , Well thought of by good Gentlemen , and Farmers of good fame : Where thus , for twenty years at least , I liv'd in gallant sor Which made the Country marvel much , to hear of my report . My state was not maintained , ( as you shall understand ) By good and honest dealings , nor labour of my hand : But by deceit and cozening shifts , the end whereof , we see Hath ever been repaid with shame , and ever like to be . My servants were young country girls , brought up unto my mind , By nature fair and beautiful , and of a gentle kind : Who with their sweet enticing eyes , did many Youngsters move To come by night unto my house , in hope of further love . But still at their close meetings , ( as I the plot had laid ) I stepped in still at unawares , while they the wantons played , And would in question bring their names , except they did agree To give me money for this wrong , done to my house and me . This was but petty cozenage , to things that I have done : My weapon by the high way side , hath me much money wone : In men's attire I oft have road , upon a Gelding stout , And done great robberies valiantly , the Countries round about . I had my Scarves and Vizords , my face for to disguise : Sometime a beard upon my chin , to blind the peoples eyes : My Turky Blade , and Pistols good , my courage to maintain : Thus took I many a Farmers purse , well cram'd with golden gain . Great store of London Merchant's , I boldly have bid stand , And showed my self most bravely , a Woman of my hand : You ruffling Roisters every one , in my defence say then we women still for gallant minds may well compare with men . The second part , To the same tune . BUt if so be it chanced , the Countries were beset , With hue , and cries , and warrants , into my house I ge And I so being with my Maids , would cloak the matter so , That no man could by any means , the right offender know . Yet God that still most justly , does punish every vice , Did bring unto confusion my fortune's in a trice : For by a murder all my sins were strangely brought to light , And such desert I had by law , as Justice claimed by right . Upon the Heath of Misseldon , I met a woman there , And rob'd her , as from Market , homeward she did repair , Which woman cal'd me by my name , and said that she me knew ; For which even with her lives deer blood , my hands I did embrue . But after I had wounded , this woman unto death , And that her bleeding body , was almost reft of breath , She gave a groan , and there withal , did spit upon my face , Three drops of blood , that never could be wiped from that place . For after I returned unto my house again . The more that I it wash'd , it more appeared plain : Each hour I thought that beasts and birds , this murder would reveal , Or that the air so vile a deed , no longer would conceal . So heavy at my conscience , this woeful murder lay , That I was soon inforced , the same for to bewray , And to my servants made it known , as God appointed me : For blood can never secret rest , nor long unpunished be . My servants to the Justices , declar'd what I had said ; For which I was attached , and to the Jail convey'd , And at the Sises was condemn'd , and had my just desert Even such a death let all them have that bear so false a heart . So farewell earthly pleasure , my quaintance all adue , With whom I spent the treasure , which causeth me to rue . Leave off your wanton pastimes , lascivious and ill , Which without Gods great mercy , does soul and body kill . Be warned by this story , you ruffling Roisters all : The higher that you climb in sin , the greater is your fallen : And since the world so wicked is , let all desire grace , Grant Lord that I the last may be , that runneth such a raze . FINIS . Printed at London for F.C. dwelling in the Old-Baily . 