The two fervent Lovers . OR A warlike kind of wooing as here at large is said , Between a brave young man , and a faithful hearted maid . To the tune of the two loving Sisters , or lulling beyond thee . AS Phebus in the lustrious air , the azure did adorn , Diana with her Virgins fair , upon that cheerful morn , Did dance and sing to see the Spring , the chirping birds likewise , Melodious found made dales rebound , and echos pierce the skies . This time a lad his darling had , my sweet said he , once prove me , And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . I drew me near unto the place , to hear the friendly greeting , A young man did his lass embrace , and bless the time of meeting : Quoth he , my heart by Cupids dart , is now so sorely pierced , I die , I die unless a salve , I have to be redressed . Therefore my deer , while we are here , in modesty once prove me , And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . As faithful Hero will I stand , to his Penelope , Leander like thou shalt command my heart , so true I'll be : My stormy eyes like winter skies , thou here mayest well perceive , My livings , goods , my life and all , for thy content will leave . Therefore my deer , etc Like English George I will appear , so valiant in behaviour , For Sabrine bright , his chief delight , who sought to win her favour : With sword and shield in dreadful field , as ancient stories say , The firy dragon there he kil'd , and conquest brought away . Therefore my deer , etc If bold Sir Guy for chivalry , in countries far and near , Did venture life to get a wife , his Phillis fair and clear : When he came back she was not slack ; to fold him with embraces , Within her arms , with hymns & charms bedewed each others faces . Therefore my deer , etc South Hamptons Earl to win his girl , encountered with a foe , Amongst Pagans , Turkes and Infidels , with many a bloody blow : The Lions strong he laid along , and forc'd the Serpent fly , Great Askipart with lofty heart , on ground he forc'd to lie . Therefore my deer , etc The second part , To the same tune . FIve years be sure I did endure , all for the sake of thee , In direful wars with bleeding scars , as plainly thou mayest see , The Canon shot I dreaded not , when I in place did come , In storms and wind with blasts unkind , I march'd with found of Drum . Therefore my deer while we are here , in modesty once prove me , And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . In Spaine and France I did advance my warlike spear and shield , My trusty sword did me afford , great conquest in the field : While Trumpets found mad stirs rebound , my courage did not hail , The Musketeers let bullets fly , like stormy drifts of hail . Therefore my deer while we are here , in modesty once prove me ; And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . Since from annoy my only joy , I pass have such trouble , Do not disdain nor me refrain , to make my sorrows double : One courteous word if thou afford , my woes are all subdued , If scornfully thou answerest me , my griefs are fresh renewed , Therefore my deer while we are here , in modesty once prove me , And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . She hearing of his loving talk , how firm his mind was fixed Said she , my love hath spoke his part , and mine shall be the nex This kind reply then presently , in modesty she said , While thou art absent from my sighed , my heart was soar afraid . That grisly death had taken the breath , of thee which so did love me , My heart and hand thou shalt command the world shall not remove me . While Neptune rules the raging Seas , and keeps within her bounds , While Flora with her fragrant flowers , bedecks the dewy grounds : While shepherds keep their feeding sheep , along the pleasant fountains , While roses spring , and small birds sing , in valies , dales , and mountains . My love with thine shall freely join , the world shall not remove me , Thou sure shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . The golden Sun shall darkened be , the Moon shall loose her light , The glistering stars no eye shall see , shine in the sable migh The Turtle shall forsake her smate , the married wife a maid Shall prove to be , ere I to thee , deny the words I said , Then try and trust I will be just , no creature shall remove me , The world shall quite dissolved be , ere I refuse to love thee . Now will we go , the man replied , unto the place with speed , To make of thee my lovely bride , my word shall be my deed : So on they went with good intent , together to be married , He liked of her , she liked of him , nothing at all miscarried . So here I end , wishing each friend , may true and faithful prove , Jove guide and bless with good success , those that do truly love . London , printed for Fr. Coules . FINIS . L.P. The two fervent Lovers . OR A warlike kind of wooing as here at large is said , Between a brave young man , and a faithful hearted maid . To the tune of the two loving Sisters , or lulling beyond thee . AS Phebus in the lustrious air , the azure did adorn , Diana with her Virgins fair , upon that cheerful morn , Did dance and sing to see the Spring , the chirping birds likewise , Melodious found made dales rebound , and echos pierce the skies . This time a lad his darling had , my sweet said he , once prove me , And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . I drew me near unto the place , to hear the friendly greeting , A young man did his lass embrace , and bless the time of meeting : Quoth he , my heart by Cupids dart , is now so sorely pierced , I die , I die unless a salve , I have to be redressed . Therefore my deer , while we are here , in modesty once prove me , And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . As faithful Hero will I stand , to his Penelope , Leander like thou shalt command my heart , so true I'll be : My stormy eyes like winter skies , thou here mayest well perceive , My livings , goods , my life and all , for thy content will leave . Therefore my deer , etc Like English George I will appear , so valiant in behaviour , For Sabrine bright , his chief delight , who sought to win her favour : With sword and shield in dreadful field , as ancient stories say , The firy dragon there he kil'd , and conquest brought away . Therefore my deer , etc If bold Sir Guy for chivalry , in countries far and near , Did venture life to get a wife , his Phillis fair and clear : When he came back she was not slack ; to fold him with embraces , Within her arms , with hymns & charms bedewed each others faces . Therefore my deer , etc South Hamptons Earl to win his girl , encountered with a foe , Amongst Pagans , Turkes and Infidels , with many a bloody blow : The Lions strong he laid along , and forc'd the Serpent fly , Great Askipart with lofty heart , on ground he forc'd to lie . Therefore my deer , etc The second part , To the same tune . FIve years be sure I did endure , all for the sake of thee , In direful wars with bleeding scars , as plainly thou mayest see , The Canon shot I dreaded not , when I in place did come , In storms and wind with blasts unkind , I march'd with found of Drum . Therefore my deer while we are here , in modesty once prove me , And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . In Spaine and France I did advance my warlike spear and shield , My trusty sword did me afford , great conquest in the field : While Trumpets found mad stirs rebound , my courage did not hail , The Musketeers let bullets fly , like stormy drifts of hail . Therefore my deer while we are here , in modesty once prove me ; And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . Since from annoy my only joy , I pass have such trouble , Do not disdain nor me refrain , to make my sorrows double : One courteous word if thou afford , my woes are all subdued , If scornfully thou answerest me , my griefs are fresh renewed , Therefore my deer while we are here , in modesty once prove me , And thou shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . She hearing of his loving talk , how firm his mind was fixed Said she , my love hath spoke his part , and mine shall be the nex This kind reply then presently , in modesty she said , While thou art absent from my sighed , my heart was soar afraid . That grisly death had taken the breath , of thee which so did love me , My heart and hand thou shalt command the world shall not remove me . While Neptune rules the raging Seas , and keeps within her bounds , While Flora with her fragrant flowers , bedecks the dewy grounds : While shepherds keep their feeding sheep , along the pleasant fountains , While roses spring , and small birds sing , in valies , dales , and mountains . My love with thine shall freely join , the world shall not remove me , Thou sure shalt find in heart and mind , how dearly I do love thee . The golden Sun shall darkened be , the Moon shall loose her light , The glistering stars no eye shall see , shine in the sable migh The Turtle shall forsake her smate , the married wife a maid Shall prove to be , ere I to thee , deny the words I said , Then try and trust I will be just , no creature shall remove me , The world shall quite dissolved be , ere I refuse to love thee . Now will we go , the man replied , unto the place with speed , To make of thee my lovely bride , my word shall be my deed : So on they went with good intent , together to be married , He liked of her , she liked of him , nothing at all miscarried . So here I end , wishing each friend , may true and faithful prove , Jove guide and bless with good success , those that do truly love . London , printed for Fr. Coules . FINIS . L.P. 