The Complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus . To a pleasant new Tune . Poor Harpalus , oppressed with love , sat by a Crystal Brook : Thinking his sorrows to remove , oft times therein to look : And hearing how on pebble stones , the murmuring river ran , As if it had bewailed his groans , unto it thus began . Fair stream ( quoth he ) that pities me , and hear my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea : as I do now suppone , Attend my plaints passed all relief , which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea-Nymphs with the grief , which still procures my death . Who sitting in the cliffy Rocks , may in their songs express , While as they comb their golden locks , poor Harpalus distress : And so parhaps some passenger , that passes by the way , May stay and listen for to hear them sing this doleful Lay. Poor Hapalus , a Shepherd Swain , more rich in youth then store : Lov'd fair Philena , hapless man , Philena , o therefore . Who still , remorseless hearted maid , took pleasure in his pain : And his good will poor soul , repaid with undeserv'd disdain . Near Shepherd lov'd a Shepherdess more faithfully then he : Near Shepherd yet beloved less of Shepherdess could be . How oft did he with dying looks , to her his woes impart ? How oft his sighs did testify the dolour of his heart ? How oft from Valleys to the Hills , did he his grief rehearse ? How oft reechoed they his ills , aback again ( alas ? ) How oft on Barks of stately Pines , of Beech of Holly-green , Did he engrave in mournful lines , the grief he did sustain ? Yet all his plaints could have no place , to change Philenas mind : The more his sorrows did increase , the more she prov'd unkind : The thought thereof with wearied care , poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high worser [ e ] spaire , he lost both life and Love . FINIS . D.M. Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus . To a pleasant new Tune . Poor Harpalus , oppressed with love , sat by a Crystal Brook : Thinking his sorrows to remove , oft times therein to look : And hearing how on pebble stones , the murmuring river ran , As if it had bewailed his groans , unto it thus began . Fair stream ( quoth he ) that pities me , and hear my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea : as I do now suppone , Attend my plaints passed all relief , which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea-Nymphs with the grief , which still procures my death . Who sitting in the cliffy Rocks , may in their songs express , While as they comb their golden locks , poor Harpalus distress : And so parhaps some passenger , that passes by the way , May stay and listen for to hear them sing this doleful Lay. Poor Hapalus , a Shepherd Swain , more rich in youth then store : Lov'd fair Philena , hapless man , Philena , o therefore . Who still , remorseless hearted maid , took pleasure in his pain : And his good will poor soul , repaid with undeserv'd disdain . Near Shepherd lov'd a Shepherdess more faithfully then he : Near Shepherd yet beloved less of Shepherdess could be . How oft did he with dying looks , to her his woes impart ? How oft his sighs did testify the dolour of his heart ? How oft from Valleys to the Hills , did he his grief rehearse ? How oft reechoed they his ills , aback again ( alas ? ) How oft on Barks of stately Pines , of Beech of Holly-green , Did he engrave in mournful lines , the grief he did sustain ? Yet all his plaints could have no place , to change Philenas mind : The more his sorrows did increase , the more she prov'd unkind : The thought thereof with wearied care , poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high worser [ e ] spaire , he lost both life and Love . FINIS . D.M. Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 