A Young-mans most earnest affection to his Sweetheart , Expressed in a dainty Courtly Son First read and hear it , then censure upon it . To a curious new Northern tune . COme come my Dear that art so pretty , Attend my suit and yield some pity , For all the world shall never remove me , Until the day I die I vow to love thee : And all the birds in every valley , Will gladly sing the praise of Jacke and Dolly . Thy rare perfection I admire , Thy company I do desire , Thy presence yields to me such pleasure , I would not miss thy sighed for any treasure . Be thou my sweating constant ever , And I in love will still persever : The Ocean sooner shall be dried , Than my firm love to thee shall be denied . Let me enjoy thy lovely presence , Which I do hold my earthly essence , And with reciprocal affection I will be constant to my first election . Though both my parents friends and kindred Seek means to have my meaning hindered , I will not change my resolution . Though I were sure the same were my confusion Though I desire in haste to marry , Yet if I were constrained to tarry A doozen years for that happy meeting , I patiently would stay for thee my sweating . Then let not thy affections waver , [ B ] ut let me still retain thy favour : Be not unkind nor fickle minded , My heart hath found more woe then ever thine worser [ id ] . I many proffers have refused , Thereat my friends have greatly mused : When I think on thee that so surpasses , Then for thy sake I loath all other Lasses . Methinks thy sparkling eyes I see still , Which is a comfort unto me still , I dreaming see thy shadow nightly , And waking wish to see the substance rightly . Thy body is straight , small and slender , Thy skin is white , smooth , soft and tender : Thy leg and foot is framed neatly , And all thy lineaments are made completely . The Poet with his witty phrases , Will gladly write thy pretty praises , And all the Birds in every valley . Will gladly sing the praise of Jacke and Dolly . The Second part . To the same tune . ANd as thou proper art and pretty , So art thou courteous prompt and witty , Both Art and Nature are combined , To make oh [ f ] thee a piece of Earth refined . And all the birds in every valle [ y ] Will gladly sing the praise of Jacke and Dolly . How can I then be discontented ? Or why should my choice be pr [ e ] vented ? Though thou hadst not one copper Token , I'll not recant the words that I have spoken . I might have riches out of measure , But what care I for worldly treasure ? Give me a Lass endowed by nature , I'll labour hard or beg for such a creature . No tortures that man can endure , Shall make my fancy prove impure : No parents frown , nor friends reproving , Shall make my settled mind to be removing . Then sith my permanent affection Submits it self to thy direction , Let not thy heart , my only s [ ? ] w [ ? ] ting , ( Like Cresida ) be mutable or fl [ ee ] ting . Be thou like Hero to Leaned [ e ] r , Let not thy thoughts like H [ e ] lens wander , To leave thy first Love for a stranger , Duplicity in choice hath still [ bred ] danger . That which betwixt faithful friends is vowed , I'th Court of heaven is allowed , And he or she that the same infringeth , Must know that such contempt great Jove avengeth . But why seem I to misdoubt thy doing , No just oc [ case ] ion by thee knowing ? No , though I speak all this in passion , I dare be sworn thou hat'st all of that fashion . Then be not thou my Dear offended , Nor let thy angry brow be bent : Yet if thou speak , to thee I'le be beholding , I love to hear thy voice , though't be in scolding . Then be thou constant in thy carriage , Until that we be linked in marriage , Then farewell care and melancholy . Since Jockey hath possessed his dearest Dolly . And all the Birds in every valley , Will sweetly sing in praise of Jacke and Dolly . FINIS . A Young-mans most earnest affection to his Sweetheart , Expressed in a dainty Courtly Son First read and hear it , then censure upon it . To a curious new Northern tune . COme come my Dear that art so pretty , Attend my suit and yield some pity , For all the world shall never remove me , Until the day I die I vow to love thee : And all the birds in every valley , Will gladly sing the praise of Jacke and Dolly . Thy rare perfection I admire , Thy company I do desire , Thy presence yields to me such pleasure , I would not miss thy sighed for any treasure . Be thou my sweating constant ever , And I in love will still persever : The Ocean sooner shall be dried , Than my firm love to thee shall be denied . Let me enjoy thy lovely presence , Which I do hold my earthly essence , And with reciprocal affection I will be constant to my first election . Though both my parents friends and kindred Seek means to have my meaning hindered , I will not change my resolution . Though I were sure the same were my confusion Though I desire in haste to marry , Yet if I were constrained to tarry A doozen years for that happy meeting , I patiently would stay for thee my sweating . Then let not thy affections waver , [ B ] ut let me still retain thy favour : Be not unkind nor fickle minded , My heart hath found more woe then ever thine worser [ id ] . I many proffers have refused , Thereat my friends have greatly mused : When I think on thee that so surpasses , Then for thy sake I loath all other Lasses . Methinks thy sparkling eyes I see still , Which is a comfort unto me still , I dreaming see thy shadow nightly , And waking wish to see the substance rightly . Thy body is straight , small and slender , Thy skin is white , smooth , soft and tender : Thy leg and foot is framed neatly , And all thy lineaments are made completely . The Poet with his witty phrases , Will gladly write thy pretty praises , And all the Birds in every valley . Will gladly sing the praise of Jacke and Dolly . The Second part . To the same tune . ANd as thou proper art and pretty , So art thou courteous prompt and witty , Both Art and Nature are combined , To make oh [ f ] thee a piece of Earth refined . And all the birds in every valle [ y ] Will gladly sing the praise of Jacke and Dolly . How can I then be discontented ? Or why should my choice be pr [ e ] vented ? Though thou hadst not one copper Token , I'll not recant the words that I have spoken . I might have riches out of measure , But what care I for worldly treasure ? Give me a Lass endowed by nature , I'll labour hard or beg for such a creature . No tortures that man can endure , Shall make my fancy prove impure : No parents frown , nor friends reproving , Shall make my settled mind to be removing . Then sith my permanent affection Submits it self to thy direction , Let not thy heart , my only s [ ? ] w [ ? ] ting , ( Like Cresida ) be mutable or fl [ ee ] ting . Be thou like Hero to Leaned [ e ] r , Let not thy thoughts like H [ e ] lens wander , To leave thy first Love for a stranger , Duplicity in choice hath still [ bred ] danger . That which betwixt faithful friends is vowed , I'th Court of heaven is allowed , And he or she that the same infringeth , Must know that such contempt great Jove avengeth . But why seem I to misdoubt thy doing , No just oc [ case ] ion by thee knowing ? No , though I speak all this in passion , I dare be sworn thou hat'st all of that fashion . Then be not thou my Dear offended , Nor let thy angry brow be bent : Yet if thou speak , to thee I'le be beholding , I love to hear thy voice , though't be in scolding . Then be thou constant in thy carriage , Until that we be linked in marriage , Then farewell care and melancholy . Since Jockey hath possessed his dearest Dolly . And all the Birds in every valley , Will sweetly sing in praise of Jacke and Dolly . FINIS . 