A most excellent Song of the love of young Palmus , and fair Sheldra , with their unfortunate love . To the tune of Shackley bay . YOung Palmus was a Ferryman , whom Sheldra fair did love : At Shackley where her sheep did graze , she there his thoughts did prove . But he unkindly stole away , and left his love at Shackley-hay . Fa la la , fa , la la la la . So loud at Shackley did she cry , the woods resound at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , fa , la la la la . But all in vain she did complain , for nothing could him move : Till wind did turn him back again , and brought him to his love . When she saw him thus turn'd by fate , She turn'd her love to mortal hate . Fa la la , etc Then weeping to her did he say , I'll live with thee at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc No , no , ( quoth she ) I thee deny , my love thou once didst scorn , And my prayers wouldst not hear , but left me here forlorn : And now being turn'd by fate of wind , Thou think'st to win me to thy mind . Fa , la la , etc Go , go , farewell I thee denay , Thou shalt not live at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc If that thou dost my love disdain , because I live on seas , Or that I am a Ferryman , my Sheldra does displease : I will no more in that estate , Be servile unto wind and fate , Fa , la la , etc But quite forsake Boats , Oars & Sea , And live with thee at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc My Sheldra's bed shall be my Boat , her arms shall be my Oars , where love in stead of storms shall float on pleasant downs and shores : Her sweetest breath my gentle gale , Through tides of love to drive my sail Fa , la la , etc Her look my praise and she my joy , To live with me at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Not Phao shall with me compare , so fortunate to prove : Fair Venus never was his fare , I'll bear the Queen of love : The working waters never fear For Cupids self our Barge shall steer Fa , la la etc And to the shore I still will cry , My Sheldra comes to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc To strew my Boat for thy avail , I'll rob the flowery shores , And while thou guid'st the silken sail , I'll row with silver Oars : And as upon the streams we float , A thousand Swans shall guide our boat . Fa , la la , etc And to the shore still will I cry , My Sheldra comes to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc And have a story painted there , wherein there shall be seen , How Sapho lov'd a Ferryman , being a learned Queen : In golden letters shall be writ , How well in love himself he quit , Fa , la la , etc That all the Lasses still shall cry , With Palmus wee'le to Shackley hay Fa , la la , etc And walking easily to the Strand , wee'le angle in the brook , And fish with thy white-lilly hand , thou need'st no other book , To which the fish shall soon be brought & strive which shall the first be caught . Fa , la la , etc A thousand pleasures will we try , As we do row to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc And if we be oppressed with heat in mid-time of the day , Under the Willows tall and great , shall be our quiet bay , Where I will make thee fans of bows , From Phoebus beams to shade thy brows , Fa , la la , etc And cause them at the Ferry cry , A boat , a boat to Shackley-hay Fa , la la etc A troop of dainty neighbouring girls , shall dance along the strand , Upon the gravel all of pearls , to wait when thou shalt land , And cast themselves about thee round , While thou with garlands shalt be crowned , Fa , la la , etc And all the shepherds with joy sh [ all ] cry Oh Sheldray is come to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Although I did my self absent , 'twas but to try thy mind : But now thou mayest thy self repent , for being so unkind : For now thou art turned by wind & fate In stead of love tO [ h' ] hast purchased hate . Fa , la la , etc Wherefore return thee to the Sea , And bid farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc The second part to the same tune . THus all in vain he did complain , and no remorse could find : Young Palmus through his own disdain made Sheldra fair unkind : And she is from him fled and gone , He laid him in his boat alone , Fa , la la . etc And so betook him to the Sea , And bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Then from the happy sandy shore , into the floating waves , His vessel fraught with brinish tears , into the main he laves . But all in vain , for why he still With weeping eyes his boat did fill , Fa , la la , etc And launched his boat into the sea , And bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Now farewell to my Sheldra fair , whom I no more shall see : I mean to leave my life at sea , by thy unconstancy . Come Neptune , come to thee I cry , With thee I'll live , with thee I'll die . Fa , la la , etc Thus he launched himself into the sea , And bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la etc But far from thence he had not gone , ere Sheldra fair returned , Whose heart kind pity made to moan , such passion in her burned : But when she to that place arriv'd , She found the shore from him depriv'd . Fa , la la , etc And her deer Palmus now at sea , Had bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc She then with bitter sighs complained , her grief did so abound : Oft grieving that she him disdained , whom he so loving found : But now ( alas ) 'twas all in vain , For he was gone by her disdain . Fa , la la etc Leaving that place to her alone , Who now laments that he is gone . Fa , la la , etc Oh wretched Sheldra , then , quoth she , confess what found disdain , Hath wrath caused to fallen on thee : could this long suffering-paine , By thee ( alas ) so soon forgotten , Serv'd to thy loves strange hateful lot . Fa , la la , etc And thus to lie , and for him cry , Whom thou so fondly didst deny . Fa , la la , fa , la la la la . Who once did truly love , I see , shall never after hate As does too well appear by me , in my forsaken state . Alas , I meant my scorn to prove , By only trial of his love . Fa la la , fa , la la la la . Now hapless me , since I do see , He hath forsaken woeful me , Fa , la la , etc Thus all this while in roughest seas , poor Palmus boat was tos But more his mind with his disease , because he Sheldra lost . In mids of this , he her forswears , He rend his boat and tore his hairs . Fa , la la , etc Threw hope away , for he alas , Could be no more drowned then he was . Fa , la la , etc Even as his grief had swallowed him , so strove the greedy waves : About his boat and over the brim , each lofty billow raves : There is no trust to swelling powers , That what it may it still devours , Fa , la la , etc But by the breach the seas might see , The boat felt more the rage then he . Fa , la la , etc Thus wracked and scattered was their state while he in quiet swom : Through liquid paths to Thetis gate by soft degrees went down Whom when the Nymphs beheld , the Girls , Soon laid aside their sorting pearls . Fa , la la , etc And up they heav'd him as a guest , Unlooked for now come to their feast , Fa , la la , etc His case they pitied : but when they beheld his face right feign , For very love , into the sea , they pulled him back again : So were they with his beauty mov'd , For what is fair is soon belov'd . Fa , la la , etc Thus with Nymph's he lives in the sea , That left his love at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Then Sheldra fair to Shackley went , to end her woeful days , Because young Palmus cast himself into the floating Seas . At Shackley-hay did fair Sheldra die , And Palmus in the sea does lie , Fa , la la , etc So as they liv'd so did they die , And bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , fa , la la la la FINIS . Printed at London for J.W. A most excellent Song of the love of young Palmus , and fair Sheldra , with their unfortunate love . To the tune of Shackley bay . YOung Palmus was a Ferryman , whom Sheldra fair did love : At Shackley where her sheep did graze , she there his thoughts did prove . But he unkindly stole away , and left his love at Shackley-hay . Fa la la , fa , la la la la . So loud at Shackley did she cry , the woods resound at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , fa , la la la la . But all in vain she did complain , for nothing could him move : Till wind did turn him back again , and brought him to his love . When she saw him thus turn'd by fate , She turn'd her love to mortal hate . Fa la la , etc Then weeping to her did he say , I'll live with thee at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc No , no , ( quoth she ) I thee deny , my love thou once didst scorn , And my prayers wouldst not hear , but left me here forlorn : And now being turn'd by fate of wind , Thou think'st to win me to thy mind . Fa , la la , etc Go , go , farewell I thee denay , Thou shalt not live at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc If that thou dost my love disdain , because I live on seas , Or that I am a Ferryman , my Sheldra does displease : I will no more in that estate , Be servile unto wind and fate , Fa , la la , etc But quite forsake Boats , Oars & Sea , And live with thee at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc My Sheldra's bed shall be my Boat , her arms shall be my Oars , where love in stead of storms shall float on pleasant downs and shores : Her sweetest breath my gentle gale , Through tides of love to drive my sail Fa , la la , etc Her look my praise and she my joy , To live with me at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Not Phao shall with me compare , so fortunate to prove : Fair Venus never was his fare , I'll bear the Queen of love : The working waters never fear For Cupids self our Barge shall steer Fa , la la etc And to the shore I still will cry , My Sheldra comes to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc To strew my Boat for thy avail , I'll rob the flowery shores , And while thou guid'st the silken sail , I'll row with silver Oars : And as upon the streams we float , A thousand Swans shall guide our boat . Fa , la la , etc And to the shore still will I cry , My Sheldra comes to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc And have a story painted there , wherein there shall be seen , How Sapho lov'd a Ferryman , being a learned Queen : In golden letters shall be writ , How well in love himself he quit , Fa , la la , etc That all the Lasses still shall cry , With Palmus wee'le to Shackley hay Fa , la la , etc And walking easily to the Strand , wee'le angle in the brook , And fish with thy white-lilly hand , thou need'st no other book , To which the fish shall soon be brought & strive which shall the first be caught . Fa , la la , etc A thousand pleasures will we try , As we do row to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc And if we be oppressed with heat in mid-time of the day , Under the Willows tall and great , shall be our quiet bay , Where I will make thee fans of bows , From Phoebus beams to shade thy brows , Fa , la la , etc And cause them at the Ferry cry , A boat , a boat to Shackley-hay Fa , la la etc A troop of dainty neighbouring girls , shall dance along the strand , Upon the gravel all of pearls , to wait when thou shalt land , And cast themselves about thee round , While thou with garlands shalt be crowned , Fa , la la , etc And all the shepherds with joy sh [ all ] cry Oh Sheldray is come to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Although I did my self absent , 'twas but to try thy mind : But now thou mayest thy self repent , for being so unkind : For now thou art turned by wind & fate In stead of love tO [ h' ] hast purchased hate . Fa , la la , etc Wherefore return thee to the Sea , And bid farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc The second part to the same tune . THus all in vain he did complain , and no remorse could find : Young Palmus through his own disdain made Sheldra fair unkind : And she is from him fled and gone , He laid him in his boat alone , Fa , la la . etc And so betook him to the Sea , And bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Then from the happy sandy shore , into the floating waves , His vessel fraught with brinish tears , into the main he laves . But all in vain , for why he still With weeping eyes his boat did fill , Fa , la la , etc And launched his boat into the sea , And bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Now farewell to my Sheldra fair , whom I no more shall see : I mean to leave my life at sea , by thy unconstancy . Come Neptune , come to thee I cry , With thee I'll live , with thee I'll die . Fa , la la , etc Thus he launched himself into the sea , And bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la etc But far from thence he had not gone , ere Sheldra fair returned , Whose heart kind pity made to moan , such passion in her burned : But when she to that place arriv'd , She found the shore from him depriv'd . Fa , la la , etc And her deer Palmus now at sea , Had bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc She then with bitter sighs complained , her grief did so abound : Oft grieving that she him disdained , whom he so loving found : But now ( alas ) 'twas all in vain , For he was gone by her disdain . Fa , la la etc Leaving that place to her alone , Who now laments that he is gone . Fa , la la , etc Oh wretched Sheldra , then , quoth she , confess what found disdain , Hath wrath caused to fallen on thee : could this long suffering-paine , By thee ( alas ) so soon forgotten , Serv'd to thy loves strange hateful lot . Fa , la la , etc And thus to lie , and for him cry , Whom thou so fondly didst deny . Fa , la la , fa , la la la la . Who once did truly love , I see , shall never after hate As does too well appear by me , in my forsaken state . Alas , I meant my scorn to prove , By only trial of his love . Fa la la , fa , la la la la . Now hapless me , since I do see , He hath forsaken woeful me , Fa , la la , etc Thus all this while in roughest seas , poor Palmus boat was tos But more his mind with his disease , because he Sheldra lost . In mids of this , he her forswears , He rend his boat and tore his hairs . Fa , la la , etc Threw hope away , for he alas , Could be no more drowned then he was . Fa , la la , etc Even as his grief had swallowed him , so strove the greedy waves : About his boat and over the brim , each lofty billow raves : There is no trust to swelling powers , That what it may it still devours , Fa , la la , etc But by the breach the seas might see , The boat felt more the rage then he . Fa , la la , etc Thus wracked and scattered was their state while he in quiet swom : Through liquid paths to Thetis gate by soft degrees went down Whom when the Nymphs beheld , the Girls , Soon laid aside their sorting pearls . Fa , la la , etc And up they heav'd him as a guest , Unlooked for now come to their feast , Fa , la la , etc His case they pitied : but when they beheld his face right feign , For very love , into the sea , they pulled him back again : So were they with his beauty mov'd , For what is fair is soon belov'd . Fa , la la , etc Thus with Nymph's he lives in the sea , That left his love at Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , etc Then Sheldra fair to Shackley went , to end her woeful days , Because young Palmus cast himself into the floating Seas . At Shackley-hay did fair Sheldra die , And Palmus in the sea does lie , Fa , la la , etc So as they liv'd so did they die , And bade farewell to Shackley-hay . Fa , la la , fa , la la la la FINIS . Printed at London for J.W. 