The woeful Lamentation of William Purcas , who for murtherin his Mother at Thaxted in Essex was executed at Chelmsford . To the tune of , The rich Merchant . THe Swan before her death , most pleasantly does sing : But I a heavy hearted note with tears my hands do wring , With tears my hands do wring , yet not a tear for death ; For I am weary of my life , desiring loss of breath . No tears for death I shed , but for my sins I mourn ; O , for that since that makes me wish , I never had been born , I never had been born , mercy good Lord I crave : O would my mother's tender womb , had been my timeless grave . Ah me , that very word strikes through my wounded heart , The name of Mother ( o my soul ) does aggravate my smart , Does aggravate my smart , and much increase my woe , Ne'r villain did so vile a deed as I have done , I know . O now ( alas ) I know , but now ( alas ) too late , Drink then depriv'd me of my sense , and of my humane state . O , that detested Vice is that we should detest , A thousand thousand times I curse , though once I lov'd it best . Yea , once I lov'd it well , o , too too well indeed : For that I did in drink overwent , my woe-tyr'd soul does bleed . For this foul spotted fault , my mother many a time Would gently chide me , & would wish me leave this loathed crime . Shee'd tell me 'twas a sin that many sins did feed , As swearing , whoring , and such like , and true she said indeed . With tears she oft did say , a wicked end 'twill have , Therefore my son do thou take heed , take heed of it I crave . With heavy heart she thus would seem to turn my mind , But slightly Ide regard her words , which now too true I find . Her Honey words to me more bitter were than gall ; I took her for my foe , when she was most my friend of all . Shee'd speak to me in love , I'de answer her in rage , Without all fear or reverence of title , or of age . Thus oft with words wee'd part , till good with bad I crossed ; But at the last , in drinking rage my wit and sense I lost . Her words I would not hear , in rage I drew my knife , To take deer life away from her , by whom I had my life . The sighed of which did make her heart much sorrow feel : ( Then as I should have done to her ) she unto me did kneel , And on her knees did beg , that I her life would spare , And 'twere but for my soul , on which [ h ] she pray'd me have a care : O spare me , son , she said , forget not who I am , Thy aged Mother do not then thy ears against me dam . Alas , how canst thou , son ; endure to see me kneel , And beg & weep and wring my hands , and no compassion feel ? For telling thee thy fault , and wishing thee to leave , I pray thee do not desperately me of my life bereave . Thus kneeling would she beg , and begging , weep apace ; And weeping , she would wring her hands , in lamentable case . Yet nothing was I mov'd with all her piteous moan , My heart for her did feel no grief , but was as hard as stone . The second part . To the same tune . THus stubborn did I stand , against my Mother deer : This second Part ; the bloody part , discoursed you shall hear . Now , now , o now again , full heavily I sing ; And in relation of my woe , both heart and hands I wring : For that I now shall tell , will draw forth brinish tears From any that have humane hearts , or my laments that hears . Her kind intreats I crossed , with bitter words and oaths , Such as the wicked love to hear , such as the virtuous loathes . And after all these wandering words , with Hels prepared knife , I quickly wounded her to death , from whom I had my life . Vi [ l ] e Nero ( I have read ) his Mother ripped to see The place where he and Embrion lay ; Oh foul impiety ! Yet none more vile than this , than this that I have done ; O , never did there ever live so impious a son . Cain branded was a Slave , for murdering of his Brother ; O , what am I then , what am I , for murdering of my Mother ? Aye me , my Mother deer , that bitter pains did prove In bearing me , and ever since full dearly did me love . Full dearly did me love , as any Mother could : And careful was she still for me , as any Mother should . Her best in all she did , still working for my good : Yet all her pain and care I quit , with shedding of her blood . With shedding of her blood , her kindness I did quit , By the Devil goaded on to do't , even in my drunken fit . All you that take delight in this abhorred Vice , The end of it come find of me , and learn to be more wise . This stains my soul as much as any sin of seven , That blacks the soul , that we should keep most fair and fit for Heaven , So long is a man a man , as Reason he retains : But Reason gone , he is no man , that shape's but little gains . If man be then no man , when Reason is away , Man is no man when he is drunk , for Drink does Reason sway . O , what's a Drunkard then , of Reason dispossessed ! As other creatures reasonless , he is a brutish Beast . And thus by me take heed of Drunkenness ( I end . ) O fly this Vice , and see what sins do not this Vice attend . For that I did in drink , now I am here to die : Ten thousand death's I have deserv'd for this impiety . Thus sorry for my sin , I pray that all may mend : And Christ I pray receive my soul after my shameful end . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis Coules dwelling in the Old-Baily . The woeful Lamentation of William Purcas , who for murtherin his Mother at Thaxted in Essex was executed at Chelmsford . To the tune of , The rich Merchant . THe Swan before her death , most pleasantly does sing : But I a heavy hearted note with tears my hands do wring , With tears my hands do wring , yet not a tear for death ; For I am weary of my life , desiring loss of breath . No tears for death I shed , but for my sins I mourn ; O , for that since that makes me wish , I never had been born , I never had been born , mercy good Lord I crave : O would my mother's tender womb , had been my timeless grave . Ah me , that very word strikes through my wounded heart , The name of Mother ( o my soul ) does aggravate my smart , Does aggravate my smart , and much increase my woe , Ne'r villain did so vile a deed as I have done , I know . O now ( alas ) I know , but now ( alas ) too late , Drink then depriv'd me of my sense , and of my humane state . O , that detested Vice is that we should detest , A thousand thousand times I curse , though once I lov'd it best . Yea , once I lov'd it well , o , too too well indeed : For that I did in drink overwent , my woe-tyr'd soul does bleed . For this foul spotted fault , my mother many a time Would gently chide me , & would wish me leave this loathed crime . Shee'd tell me 'twas a sin that many sins did feed , As swearing , whoring , and such like , and true she said indeed . With tears she oft did say , a wicked end 'twill have , Therefore my son do thou take heed , take heed of it I crave . With heavy heart she thus would seem to turn my mind , But slightly Ide regard her words , which now too true I find . Her Honey words to me more bitter were than gall ; I took her for my foe , when she was most my friend of all . Shee'd speak to me in love , I'de answer her in rage , Without all fear or reverence of title , or of age . Thus oft with words wee'd part , till good with bad I crossed ; But at the last , in drinking rage my wit and sense I lost . Her words I would not hear , in rage I drew my knife , To take deer life away from her , by whom I had my life . The sighed of which did make her heart much sorrow feel : ( Then as I should have done to her ) she unto me did kneel , And on her knees did beg , that I her life would spare , And 'twere but for my soul , on which [ h ] she pray'd me have a care : O spare me , son , she said , forget not who I am , Thy aged Mother do not then thy ears against me dam . Alas , how canst thou , son ; endure to see me kneel , And beg & weep and wring my hands , and no compassion feel ? For telling thee thy fault , and wishing thee to leave , I pray thee do not desperately me of my life bereave . Thus kneeling would she beg , and begging , weep apace ; And weeping , she would wring her hands , in lamentable case . Yet nothing was I mov'd with all her piteous moan , My heart for her did feel no grief , but was as hard as stone . The second part . To the same tune . THus stubborn did I stand , against my Mother deer : This second Part ; the bloody part , discoursed you shall hear . Now , now , o now again , full heavily I sing ; And in relation of my woe , both heart and hands I wring : For that I now shall tell , will draw forth brinish tears From any that have humane hearts , or my laments that hears . Her kind intreats I crossed , with bitter words and oaths , Such as the wicked love to hear , such as the virtuous loathes . And after all these wandering words , with Hels prepared knife , I quickly wounded her to death , from whom I had my life . Vi [ l ] e Nero ( I have read ) his Mother ripped to see The place where he and Embrion lay ; Oh foul impiety ! Yet none more vile than this , than this that I have done ; O , never did there ever live so impious a son . Cain branded was a Slave , for murdering of his Brother ; O , what am I then , what am I , for murdering of my Mother ? Aye me , my Mother deer , that bitter pains did prove In bearing me , and ever since full dearly did me love . Full dearly did me love , as any Mother could : And careful was she still for me , as any Mother should . Her best in all she did , still working for my good : Yet all her pain and care I quit , with shedding of her blood . With shedding of her blood , her kindness I did quit , By the Devil goaded on to do't , even in my drunken fit . All you that take delight in this abhorred Vice , The end of it come find of me , and learn to be more wise . This stains my soul as much as any sin of seven , That blacks the soul , that we should keep most fair and fit for Heaven , So long is a man a man , as Reason he retains : But Reason gone , he is no man , that shape's but little gains . If man be then no man , when Reason is away , Man is no man when he is drunk , for Drink does Reason sway . O , what's a Drunkard then , of Reason dispossessed ! As other creatures reasonless , he is a brutish Beast . And thus by me take heed of Drunkenness ( I end . ) O fly this Vice , and see what sins do not this Vice attend . For that I did in drink , now I am here to die : Ten thousand death's I have deserv'd for this impiety . Thus sorry for my sin , I pray that all may mend : And Christ I pray receive my soul after my shameful end . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis Coules dwelling in the Old-Baily . 