R1 . 428-429 Two unfortunate Lovers , or , a true Relation of the lamentable end of John True , and Susan Mease . Their lives this Ditty does relate , And how they dy'd unfortunate . To the tune of , The Brides Burial . ATtend you lovers and give ear , unto my mournful song , Of two that loved faithfully , yet each did other wrong . At Coventry in Warwickshire , this young man he did dwell , His name John True a Shoemaker , and liv'd of it full well . At Corley did this maiden dwell , three miles from Coventry : Yet for the love he bore to her , oft times he would her see . And coming unto her one day , he told to her his mind : Susan , quoth he , I love thee deer , be not to me unkind . If thou canst love and fancy me , in heart and eke in mind : I will prove loving unto thee , and never be unkind . Thy cheerful looks rejoice my heart , and merry make my mind : Sweet Susan then love me again , be not to me unkind . Good John I thank you for your love , and wish you 't home to tarry , I am too young for you to wed , and have no mind marry . Where you do dwell are Maids good store , of beauty fair and free , Set not your love upon me then , for I cannot love thee . This answer struck him to the heart , as cold as any stone : Then homeward straight he did repair , with many a sighs and groan . Wishing that he had never been born , or in his cradle dy'd , Unhappy man to love so true , and yet to be deny'd . Quoth he , I will to her again , and hear what she does say ; It may be she may be more kind , though first she said me nay . Then coming to the town again , he sent for her straight way , Desiring her to speak with him , but she did it denay . Then did he sighs , lament and grieve , and knew not what to say , Then did he take his pen in hand , and writ these words straight way ; My hearts delight and only joy , kill not me with disdain , Vouchsafe that I may speak with thee and rid me of my pain . Resolve me sweetest I thee pray , why is thy hatred such ? I know no cause , unless it be for loving thee too much . As is my name so is my love , sweet Susan unto thee : True is my name , true is my love , and ever so shall be . My love is loyal just and good , kill me not with disdain , Rather do me that courtesy , to love for love again . When she had read and understood , his mind and his intent , She then began to like and love , and yield him hearts content , John I am thine , if thou be'st mine , for ever and for aye , It was to prove thy constancy , that I did say thee nay . But here's my hand , my heart & love I'll never thee more deny , My love is constant firm and true , and shall be till I die . Then they imbrac'd each others love , and joy'd in heart and voice , That he of her , and she of him , had made so sweet a choice . But fortune which does often frown , where she before did smile , The men delight and maidens joy , full soon she did beguile . The second Part , to the same tune . WHen she was settled in her love , then he would change his mind , And for to try her constancy , would be to her unkind . And thus resolved in his mind , he'd come to her no more , But went and wood another maid , which griev'd her heart full soar . ( Quoth he ) she proved unto me , hardhearted and unkind , But now her true love I have won , I'll bear the self same mind . When she perceiv'd his love to her , not as 'twas wont to be , She did lament , sighs , weep and grieve and then these words spoke she . Falsehearted man adue , quoth she , disloyal and unkind , And if I die for love of thee , thou shalt not know my mind . Woe to the time I did believe , that flattering look of thine , Would God that I had never seen , the tears of thy false eyes . Hard hap had I to set my love , on one that mocked me , Sure all the country does not yield , a man so false as he . Thus was she brought to weak estate all comforts from her fled , She did desire to speak with him , before that she was dead . Her friends did seek to cheer her heart and to make glad her mind , But she was killed with loving him , that prov'd to her unkind . Falsehearted man , may never maid love thee as I have done , But may my death remembered be , to time that is to come . And may all maids example take , by this my mournful death , And now sweet Lord receive my soul to thee I yield my breath . Thus dy'd the pattern of true love , thus dy'd a virtuous maid , Thus dy'd as good a harmless Lass as ever Love betray'd . Six maids in white as custom is , did bring her to the grave , Her parents grieve , lament & mourn , no child at all they have . When as her Lover understood , for truth that she was dead , He rag'd , and ready was to tear his hair from off his head . But when he came into the town , whereas his Love lay , He straightway ran unto her grave , and these words there did say . Susan ( quoth he ) I'll kiss thy grave , upon my bent knee , Whereby I'll show to all the world , how deer I loved thee . And as he lay upon the grave , he herd a voice to say , John True if ere thou lov'dst m [ e ] deer , make haste and come away . Then started he up from the grave , and stood like one struck dumb , But when he had regain'd his speech , he cried , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his wits , he rag'd in piteous sort , That all the neighbours presently , were griev'd at this report . And thus with sorrow & grief of heart , he lay a whole fortnigh But when he had confessed his fault , he yielded up his spright . According to his hearts desire , and as he did request , They dig'd his grave , & laid him down by her whom he lov'd best . You young men all that have true loves prove true unto your friend , And if you love , be sure your love be true unto the end . And thus I end my story true , so full of grief and woe . May never any seek again , to wrong each other so . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . R1 . 428-429 Two unfortunate Lovers , or , a true Relation of the lamentable end of John True , and Susan Mease . Their lives this Ditty does relate , And how they dy'd unfortunate . To the tune of , The Brides Burial . ATtend you lovers and give ear , unto my mournful song , Of two that loved faithfully , yet each did other wrong . At Coventry in Warwickshire , this young man he did dwell , His name John True a Shoemaker , and liv'd of it full well . At Corley did this maiden dwell , three miles from Coventry : Yet for the love he bore to her , oft times he would her see . And coming unto her one day , he told to her his mind : Susan , quoth he , I love thee deer , be not to me unkind . If thou canst love and fancy me , in heart and eke in mind : I will prove loving unto thee , and never be unkind . Thy cheerful looks rejoice my heart , and merry make my mind : Sweet Susan then love me again , be not to me unkind . Good John I thank you for your love , and wish you 't home to tarry , I am too young for you to wed , and have no mind marry . Where you do dwell are Maids good store , of beauty fair and free , Set not your love upon me then , for I cannot love thee . This answer struck him to the heart , as cold as any stone : Then homeward straight he did repair , with many a sighs and groan . Wishing that he had never been born , or in his cradle dy'd , Unhappy man to love so true , and yet to be deny'd . Quoth he , I will to her again , and hear what she does say ; It may be she may be more kind , though first she said me nay . Then coming to the town again , he sent for her straight way , Desiring her to speak with him , but she did it denay . Then did he sighs , lament and grieve , and knew not what to say , Then did he take his pen in hand , and writ these words straight way ; My hearts delight and only joy , kill not me with disdain , Vouchsafe that I may speak with thee and rid me of my pain . Resolve me sweetest I thee pray , why is thy hatred such ? I know no cause , unless it be for loving thee too much . As is my name so is my love , sweet Susan unto thee : True is my name , true is my love , and ever so shall be . My love is loyal just and good , kill me not with disdain , Rather do me that courtesy , to love for love again . When she had read and understood , his mind and his intent , She then began to like and love , and yield him hearts content , John I am thine , if thou be'st mine , for ever and for aye , It was to prove thy constancy , that I did say thee nay . But here's my hand , my heart & love I'll never thee more deny , My love is constant firm and true , and shall be till I die . Then they imbrac'd each others love , and joy'd in heart and voice , That he of her , and she of him , had made so sweet a choice . But fortune which does often frown , where she before did smile , The men delight and maidens joy , full soon she did beguile . The second Part , to the same tune . WHen she was settled in her love , then he would change his mind , And for to try her constancy , would be to her unkind . And thus resolved in his mind , he'd come to her no more , But went and wood another maid , which griev'd her heart full soar . ( Quoth he ) she proved unto me , hardhearted and unkind , But now her true love I have won , I'll bear the self same mind . When she perceiv'd his love to her , not as 'twas wont to be , She did lament , sighs , weep and grieve and then these words spoke she . Falsehearted man adue , quoth she , disloyal and unkind , And if I die for love of thee , thou shalt not know my mind . Woe to the time I did believe , that flattering look of thine , Would God that I had never seen , the tears of thy false eyes . Hard hap had I to set my love , on one that mocked me , Sure all the country does not yield , a man so false as he . Thus was she brought to weak estate all comforts from her fled , She did desire to speak with him , before that she was dead . Her friends did seek to cheer her heart and to make glad her mind , But she was killed with loving him , that prov'd to her unkind . Falsehearted man , may never maid love thee as I have done , But may my death remembered be , to time that is to come . And may all maids example take , by this my mournful death , And now sweet Lord receive my soul to thee I yield my breath . Thus dy'd the pattern of true love , thus dy'd a virtuous maid , Thus dy'd as good a harmless Lass as ever Love betray'd . Six maids in white as custom is , did bring her to the grave , Her parents grieve , lament & mourn , no child at all they have . When as her Lover understood , for truth that she was dead , He rag'd , and ready was to tear his hair from off his head . But when he came into the town , whereas his Love lay , He straightway ran unto her grave , and these words there did say . Susan ( quoth he ) I'll kiss thy grave , upon my bent knee , Whereby I'll show to all the world , how deer I loved thee . And as he lay upon the grave , he herd a voice to say , John True if ere thou lov'dst m [ e ] deer , make haste and come away . Then started he up from the grave , and stood like one struck dumb , But when he had regain'd his speech , he cried , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his wits , he rag'd in piteous sort , That all the neighbours presently , were griev'd at this report . And thus with sorrow & grief of heart , he lay a whole fortnigh But when he had confessed his fault , he yielded up his spright . According to his hearts desire , and as he did request , They dig'd his grave , & laid him down by her whom he lov'd best . You young men all that have true loves prove true unto your friend , And if you love , be sure your love be true unto the end . And thus I end my story true , so full of grief and woe . May never any seek again , to wrong each other so . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . 