The Youngman's Wish , OR , Behold his mind fulfil'd , whom Love had almost kil'd , With joy reviv'd again , as here appears plain : The like to this , ( 'twixt Man and Wife ) I never herd yet , in all my Life . To the tune of , I am in Love , and cannot tell with whom . WHat strange affections have my thoughts possessed , that nothing will nor can my mind content ? Or why should love my inward parts molest , or time away in patience thus be spent ? The cause I'll show , but o my heart will break ; I am in love , but know not how to speak . My Humours and my Fancies all are crossed , my mind so much disturb'd I cannot sleep ; By day my wits like tennis Balls are tossed , and every hour in doleful dumps most deep : I am cast down , all pleasure I forsake , The reason is , I love and cannot speak . Sometime my Muse ascendeth up on high , and climes Parnassus hills for learning's lore ; As soon again it in the deep does lie , now high , then low ; now rich , and straightway poor : Now laugh & smile , yet straight my heart will break ; For still I love and know not how to speak . I wander up and down , and yet stand still ; I walk abroad , and yet lie sick in bed : I live at liberty , and yet my will is into desolation captive led : My health I have , yet life does me forsake , Though still I love , I know not how to speak . I feed , I feast , I fare on dainty diet ; I drink the freshest wine , yet still am dry : I take my rest , and yet can have no quiet ; I stand in water , yet in flames I fry : I sulphur greatly , yet with cold I shake ; I love in heart , and yet I dare not speak . I wear good clothes , and yet I naked go , with decent gesture seemly to behold ; I am adorn'd from top unto the toe ; And yet my shape is loathsome double fold : I have my wits , and yet I do mistake , 'Tis all because I love , and cannot speak . I hear , I see , I smell , I taste , I touch , and yet am senseless grown in every thing ; Great want I feel , yet have ( me thinks ) too much , each ounce of mirth , a pound of grief does bring : I am inforc'd thus to the world to break My mind ; but to my Love I cannot speak . I live in peace , yet hold and inward strife , Cupid that villain wounded so my heart ; I single am , yet feign would have a Wife , to ease me of my dolour , grief and smar But she with whom I gladly would partake , Makes me abash'd , I know not how to speak . The second Part. To the same Tune . O That some Orator would be so kind , to plead my cause , and certify my love ; My passion and disturbances of mind . to try if she will prove my Turtle Dove : What alms or answer she to me would make , For o alas , I love , but cannot speak . But since no means or way I can invent , to bring her tidings of my hearts desire ; My time in Wishes shall be wholly spent , and Phoenixlike I'll wast my self in fire : For while I live I'll sorrow for her sake , Because I want both Art and heart to speak . O that I were some curious King of Gold , to wear upon her finger for delight ; That by some Merchant so I might be sold for her own use and service day and nigh Or would I were a bondslave for her sake ; That fear might force , or Love me cause to speak . Could I but crave to light her to her bed , it surely would revive my drooping heart ; Or lay soft pillows underneath her head ; till dalliance long had made us loath to par So finding scope , my wished mind I'd break , By signs , to hear , or touch , if not to speak . But Oh my heart , my wishes are in vain , no hope's have I for this which here I crave ; Nor know I any way her love to gain ; Oh would the Fates had dig'd my timeless grave : Where I might rest securely in my Tomb , And not be found until the day of doom . His Love ( at last ) who from a window high had herd the griefs and sorrows he indur'd ; Thus comforts him with words immediately , thy lovesick heart ( said she ) shall soon be cur'd : Thou shalt no longer cause have to complain ; If thou lov'st me , I'll quit thy love again . Thou wishedst but my company a time ; now here's my hands for ever and for aye , In weal or woe I will be wholly thine , my heart , my hand , my life shall thee obey : So , lastly ; thus their loves were truly tried , He was her Bridegroom , she his lovely Bride . FINIS . L.P. Imprinted at London for John Wright , the younger , and are to be sold at his Shop at the upper end of the Old-Bayley . The Youngman's Wish , OR , Behold his mind fulfil'd , whom Love had almost kil'd , With joy reviv'd again , as here appears plain : The like to this , ( 'twixt Man and Wife ) I never herd yet , in all my Life . To the tune of , I am in Love , and cannot tell with whom . WHat strange affections have my thoughts possessed , that nothing will nor can my mind content ? Or why should love my inward parts molest , or time away in patience thus be spent ? The cause I'll show , but o my heart will break ; I am in love , but know not how to speak . My Humours and my Fancies all are crossed , my mind so much disturb'd I cannot sleep ; By day my wits like tennis Balls are tossed , and every hour in doleful dumps most deep : I am cast down , all pleasure I forsake , The reason is , I love and cannot speak . Sometime my Muse ascendeth up on high , and climes Parnassus hills for learning's lore ; As soon again it in the deep does lie , now high , then low ; now rich , and straightway poor : Now laugh & smile , yet straight my heart will break ; For still I love and know not how to speak . I wander up and down , and yet stand still ; I walk abroad , and yet lie sick in bed : I live at liberty , and yet my will is into desolation captive led : My health I have , yet life does me forsake , Though still I love , I know not how to speak . I feed , I feast , I fare on dainty diet ; I drink the freshest wine , yet still am dry : I take my rest , and yet can have no quiet ; I stand in water , yet in flames I fry : I sulphur greatly , yet with cold I shake ; I love in heart , and yet I dare not speak . I wear good clothes , and yet I naked go , with decent gesture seemly to behold ; I am adorn'd from top unto the toe ; And yet my shape is loathsome double fold : I have my wits , and yet I do mistake , 'Tis all because I love , and cannot speak . I hear , I see , I smell , I taste , I touch , and yet am senseless grown in every thing ; Great want I feel , yet have ( me thinks ) too much , each ounce of mirth , a pound of grief does bring : I am inforc'd thus to the world to break My mind ; but to my Love I cannot speak . I live in peace , yet hold and inward strife , Cupid that villain wounded so my heart ; I single am , yet feign would have a Wife , to ease me of my dolour , grief and smar But she with whom I gladly would partake , Makes me abash'd , I know not how to speak . The second Part. To the same Tune . O That some Orator would be so kind , to plead my cause , and certify my love ; My passion and disturbances of mind . to try if she will prove my Turtle Dove : What alms or answer she to me would make , For o alas , I love , but cannot speak . But since no means or way I can invent , to bring her tidings of my hearts desire ; My time in Wishes shall be wholly spent , and Phoenixlike I'll wast my self in fire : For while I live I'll sorrow for her sake , Because I want both Art and heart to speak . O that I were some curious King of Gold , to wear upon her finger for delight ; That by some Merchant so I might be sold for her own use and service day and nigh Or would I were a bondslave for her sake ; That fear might force , or Love me cause to speak . Could I but crave to light her to her bed , it surely would revive my drooping heart ; Or lay soft pillows underneath her head ; till dalliance long had made us loath to par So finding scope , my wished mind I'd break , By signs , to hear , or touch , if not to speak . But Oh my heart , my wishes are in vain , no hope's have I for this which here I crave ; Nor know I any way her love to gain ; Oh would the Fates had dig'd my timeless grave : Where I might rest securely in my Tomb , And not be found until the day of doom . His Love ( at last ) who from a window high had herd the griefs and sorrows he indur'd ; Thus comforts him with words immediately , thy lovesick heart ( said she ) shall soon be cur'd : Thou shalt no longer cause have to complain ; If thou lov'st me , I'll quit thy love again . Thou wishedst but my company a time ; now here's my hands for ever and for aye , In weal or woe I will be wholly thine , my heart , my hand , my life shall thee obey : So , lastly ; thus their loves were truly tried , He was her Bridegroom , she his lovely Bride . FINIS . L.P. Imprinted at London for John Wright , the younger , and are to be sold at his Shop at the upper end of the Old-Bayley . 