Truths Integrity : OR , A curious Northern Ditty , called , Love will find out the way . To a pleasant new Tune . OVer the Mountains and under the Waves , Over the Fountains and under the Graves : Over Rocks which are the steepest , which do Neptune obey , Over floods which are the deepest , Love will find out the way . Where there is no place for the Glowworm to lie , Where there is no space for the receipt of a fly , Where the Gnat she dares not venture , lest her self fast she lay , But if Love come he will enter , and will find out the way . You may esteem him a child by his force , Or you may deem him , a Coward which is worse : But if he whom Love does honour , be concealed from the day , Set a thousand guards upon him , Love will find out the way . Some think to loose him which is too unkind , And some do suppose him poor heart to be blind : If that he were hidden , do the best that you may , Blind Love , if so you call him , will find out the way . Well may the Eagle stoop down to the fist , Or you may inveigle the Phoenix of the East , With fear the Tigers's moved , to give over his prey , But never stop a Lover , he will post on his way . From Dover to Barwicke , and Nations throughout , Brave Guy of Warwicke , that Champion so stout , With his Warlike behaviour , Through the world he did stray To win his Phillis favour , Love will find out the way . In order next enters , Bevis so brave , After adventures , and policy grave , To see whom he desired , his Josian so gay , For whom his heart was fired , Love found out the way . The second part . To the same Tune . THe Gordian knot , which true lovers knit , Undo you cannot , nor yet break i Make use of your inventions , their fancies to betray . To frustrate your intentions , Love will find out the way . From Court to the Cottage , in Bower and in Hall , From the King unto the Beggar , Love conquers all : Though never so stout and Lordly , strive do what you may , Yet be you never so hardy , Love will find out the way . Love hath power over Princes , and greatest Emperor , In any Provinces , such is Loves power , There is no resisting , but him to obey , In spite of all contesting , Love will find out the way . If that he were hidden and all men that are , Were strictly forbidden , that place to declare : Winds that have no abidings , pitying their delay , Will come and bring him tidings , and direct him the way . If the earth should part him , he would gallop it over , If the Seas should orethwart him , he would swim to the shore : Should his love become a Swallow , through the air to stray , Love would lend wings to follow , and will find out the way . There is no striving to cross his intent , There is no contriving , his plots to preven But if once the message greet him , that his true Love does stay , If death should come and meet him , Love will find out the way . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . Truths Integrity : OR , A curious Northern Ditty , called , Love will find out the way . To a pleasant new Tune . OVer the Mountains and under the Waves , Over the Fountains and under the Graves : Over Rocks which are the steepest , which do Neptune obey , Over floods which are the deepest , Love will find out the way . Where there is no place for the Glowworm to lie , Where there is no space for the receipt of a fly , Where the Gnat she dares not venture , lest her self fast she lay , But if Love come he will enter , and will find out the way . You may esteem him a child by his force , Or you may deem him , a Coward which is worse : But if he whom Love does honour , be concealed from the day , Set a thousand guards upon him , Love will find out the way . Some think to loose him which is too unkind , And some do suppose him poor heart to be blind : If that he were hidden , do the best that you may , Blind Love , if so you call him , will find out the way . Well may the Eagle stoop down to the fist , Or you may inveigle the Phoenix of the East , With fear the Tigers's moved , to give over his prey , But never stop a Lover , he will post on his way . From Dover to Barwicke , and Nations throughout , Brave Guy of Warwicke , that Champion so stout , With his Warlike behaviour , Through the world he did stray To win his Phillis favour , Love will find out the way . In order next enters , Bevis so brave , After adventures , and policy grave , To see whom he desired , his Josian so gay , For whom his heart was fired , Love found out the way . The second part . To the same Tune . THe Gordian knot , which true lovers knit , Undo you cannot , nor yet break i Make use of your inventions , their fancies to betray . To frustrate your intentions , Love will find out the way . From Court to the Cottage , in Bower and in Hall , From the King unto the Beggar , Love conquers all : Though never so stout and Lordly , strive do what you may , Yet be you never so hardy , Love will find out the way . Love hath power over Princes , and greatest Emperor , In any Provinces , such is Loves power , There is no resisting , but him to obey , In spite of all contesting , Love will find out the way . If that he were hidden and all men that are , Were strictly forbidden , that place to declare : Winds that have no abidings , pitying their delay , Will come and bring him tidings , and direct him the way . If the earth should part him , he would gallop it over , If the Seas should orethwart him , he would swim to the shore : Should his love become a Swallow , through the air to stray , Love would lend wings to follow , and will find out the way . There is no striving to cross his intent , There is no contriving , his plots to preven But if once the message greet him , that his true Love does stay , If death should come and meet him , Love will find out the way . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . 