The Virgins A.B.C. OR , And Alphabet of virtuous Admonitions for a chaste , modest , and well governed Maid . To the tune of , The Youngman's A.B.C. ALL youthful Virgins to this Song give ear , And learn the Lessons which are taught you here . And Alphabet of Virtues here are set , And being learn'd do make a Maid complete , Bear not a scornful mind , although you are Beauteous as Hellen , or like Venus fair ; It ill becomes a forehead smooth and white , To threaten anger in a Lovers sighed . Choose then a modest carriage , and still be Courteous , and not too coy in company : They're Nature's Changelings and too much unkind , Who have a lovely face , and scornful mind . Disdainful never seem , nor yet too much Dote on thy faces beauty , sleighting such As sue for love , lest creeping age come on , And then too late your folly you bemoan . EXchange no love , but always constant be , Esteem true Love a perfect treasury ; For where true Love and beauty both unite , It yields both parties both their hearts delight . Feign no affection but where vows are past , Fix there your heart , let there your love be platc't , For if by feigned wiles Loves Knot be ty'd , It breeds dissension 'twixt the Groom & Bride . GRow not to proud , though smiling fortune do , Great store of wealth , and her best gifts bestow : For Pride the Proverb says , must have a fallen , And so must Maidens , Widow's , Wives and all . HAste not too much for marriage , nor the thing Which does not pleasure only , but grief bring , For hasty Lovers often do destroy The sweets of Love , ere they their hope's enjoy . IF yet you choose a Mate whom you affect , Injure him not with any disrespect ; But wary be , and ere Loves Knot you tie , Prove first your own , and then his constancy . KNowledge is gain'd by 'xperience , and by this Thou mayest arrive unto the height of bliss ; First try , then trust ; and when you both have prov'd You may both love , and be as well belov'd . Look ere you leap , the Proverb still does say , Let no smooth tongues your love to lust betray ; In fairest grass a Snake is often found , And smoothest tongues with falsehood most abound . The second Part , To the same Tune . Mourn not too much , nor be thou always sad , Mirth sometime may become a virtuous Maid : Yet use not too much laughter , lest you be Sleighted and scorn'd for your immodesty . NOr use uncivil talk , no gesture light , Nor in unseemly wantonness delight , But keep a chaste behaviour , that you may , Have good report in every kind of way . OFfend not with a foul and slanderous tongue Others , that do not wish thee any wrong , But speak thou well of all , and always do With others , as you'd have them deal with you . PAint not your beauty when it is decay'd , Prize not that for a Jewel , which must fade , And when you have done your best will fall away , And through read cheeks a wrinkled brow display . QUench in thy self all lustest inflaming fires , Which may provoke thee to unchaste desires , For though a while such pleasures please thy mind , Yet sorrow , want , and beggary come behind . REmember next how like a fading flower , Rich earth's best treasures vanish in and hour , And how the best of things that you enjoy , The Sith of Time will cut and Death destroy . Seek therefore richer gifts than thee can give , So shalt thou in a state securer live ; For though frail beauty deck thy outward part , Yet inward virtue best adorns the heart . TRy that rich Gem , which when thou hast at-tain'd Thou hast a beauteous Maids chief beauty gain'd . And if fair V [ e ] rtue do thy courses steer , Like Joves chaste Daughter thou shalt bright appear . Vain Beauty's but a trifle , that a while Dame Nature lends thee with a flattering smile , Which Lovers gaze at , and with greedy hands , Each one to crop a blossom of it stands . WHile in its fullest ripeness it is grown , When its decay'd , their loves are with it gone Let this then be thy care , and chiefest strife , To live a virtuous Maid , and honest Wife . XAntippe-like , the Wife of Socrates , Affect not thou thy husband to displease , Nor with a railing tongue pursue him still , But in humility obey his will . Yield not to others when you once are wed , The pleasures of your lawful husbands bed , For if thou guilty be of such and act , Thou shalt not escape unpunished for thy fact . ZEalous then be in all these Virtues , prove Both constant , chaste , and loyal in your love . And if these Lessons well thou learnest , for thee This truly still , The Virgins ABC . FINIS . Printed at London by M.P. for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-baily . The Virgins A.B.C. OR , And Alphabet of virtuous Admonitions for a chaste , modest , and well governed Maid . To the tune of , The Youngman's A.B.C. ALL youthful Virgins to this Song give ear , And learn the Lessons which are taught you here . And Alphabet of Virtues here are set , And being learn'd do make a Maid complete , Bear not a scornful mind , although you are Beauteous as Hellen , or like Venus fair ; It ill becomes a forehead smooth and white , To threaten anger in a Lovers sighed . Choose then a modest carriage , and still be Courteous , and not too coy in company : They're Nature's Changelings and too much unkind , Who have a lovely face , and scornful mind . Disdainful never seem , nor yet too much Dote on thy faces beauty , sleighting such As sue for love , lest creeping age come on , And then too late your folly you bemoan . EXchange no love , but always constant be , Esteem true Love a perfect treasury ; For where true Love and beauty both unite , It yields both parties both their hearts delight . Feign no affection but where vows are past , Fix there your heart , let there your love be platc't , For if by feigned wiles Loves Knot be ty'd , It breeds dissension 'twixt the Groom & Bride . GRow not to proud , though smiling fortune do , Great store of wealth , and her best gifts bestow : For Pride the Proverb says , must have a fallen , And so must Maidens , Widow's , Wives and all . HAste not too much for marriage , nor the thing Which does not pleasure only , but grief bring , For hasty Lovers often do destroy The sweets of Love , ere they their hope's enjoy . IF yet you choose a Mate whom you affect , Injure him not with any disrespect ; But wary be , and ere Loves Knot you tie , Prove first your own , and then his constancy . KNowledge is gain'd by 'xperience , and by this Thou mayest arrive unto the height of bliss ; First try , then trust ; and when you both have prov'd You may both love , and be as well belov'd . Look ere you leap , the Proverb still does say , Let no smooth tongues your love to lust betray ; In fairest grass a Snake is often found , And smoothest tongues with falsehood most abound . The second Part , To the same Tune . Mourn not too much , nor be thou always sad , Mirth sometime may become a virtuous Maid : Yet use not too much laughter , lest you be Sleighted and scorn'd for your immodesty . NOr use uncivil talk , no gesture light , Nor in unseemly wantonness delight , But keep a chaste behaviour , that you may , Have good report in every kind of way . OFfend not with a foul and slanderous tongue Others , that do not wish thee any wrong , But speak thou well of all , and always do With others , as you'd have them deal with you . PAint not your beauty when it is decay'd , Prize not that for a Jewel , which must fade , And when you have done your best will fall away , And through read cheeks a wrinkled brow display . QUench in thy self all lustest inflaming fires , Which may provoke thee to unchaste desires , For though a while such pleasures please thy mind , Yet sorrow , want , and beggary come behind . REmember next how like a fading flower , Rich earth's best treasures vanish in and hour , And how the best of things that you enjoy , The Sith of Time will cut and Death destroy . Seek therefore richer gifts than thee can give , So shalt thou in a state securer live ; For though frail beauty deck thy outward part , Yet inward virtue best adorns the heart . TRy that rich Gem , which when thou hast at-tain'd Thou hast a beauteous Maids chief beauty gain'd . And if fair V [ e ] rtue do thy courses steer , Like Joves chaste Daughter thou shalt bright appear . Vain Beauty's but a trifle , that a while Dame Nature lends thee with a flattering smile , Which Lovers gaze at , and with greedy hands , Each one to crop a blossom of it stands . WHile in its fullest ripeness it is grown , When its decay'd , their loves are with it gone Let this then be thy care , and chiefest strife , To live a virtuous Maid , and honest Wife . XAntippe-like , the Wife of Socrates , Affect not thou thy husband to displease , Nor with a railing tongue pursue him still , But in humility obey his will . Yield not to others when you once are wed , The pleasures of your lawful husbands bed , For if thou guilty be of such and act , Thou shalt not escape unpunished for thy fact . ZEalous then be in all these Virtues , prove Both constant , chaste , and loyal in your love . And if these Lessons well thou learnest , for thee This truly still , The Virgins ABC . FINIS . Printed at London by M.P. for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-baily . 