And Inconstant Female . With a reward of her disdain in equality . To the same tune . LOving mortal , In love I here exhort all , in that estate : Love is wasting , But everlasting in women's hate . Why then live you , Or wherefore always give you your tears and prayers To found woman , Whose mind , so common , respect no tears . O be ruled , and be advis [ ' ] worser by one hath seen them , by one hath known them , by one hath found them And their loves to small , For what must parted be , To me is nought at all , Once I loved But thousand times have proved a curious Fair Helenes feature Bears this coy creature and Venus hair , Cupids dandling , Her tender breasts handling , betwixt them lies . Love pursued , The more I viewed , love did more rise . She did feed me with delay , and swore to have me , not once to leave me , but vow [ ' ] worser to love me , With the like respect , When she another Sweetheart Better did affect , Void of sorrow , A patience pure I borrow , and wait the time : She neglectful , Of some respectful , does let me pine , Love increased , But could not be released , the more I sue , She ungrateful . To me turns hateful . false , fair , untrue Spend I love , or time of fears , I am neglected , not once respected , but quite rejected , And can nothing gain , But false dissembling love , Or found to love in vain Now a Troylus I still must live , yet joyless of Cresida : Loves mistaken , And I forsaken , am left for aye : Fair she fed me , Until my Daphne fled me , with swiftest wings , Fair she proved , But false she loved so Sire's sings But now my Love hath proved untrue , disdaining pity , to one so witty , I'll sing this ditty , Thus the note shall found , Falsehearted fickle Maids Are better lost then found . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke FINIS . And Inconstant Female . With a reward of her disdain in equality . To the same tune . LOving mortal , In love I here exhort all , in that estate : Love is wasting , But everlasting in women's hate . Why then live you , Or wherefore always give you your tears and prayers To found woman , Whose mind , so common , respect no tears . O be ruled , and be advis [ ' ] worser by one hath seen them , by one hath known them , by one hath found them And their loves to small , For what must parted be , To me is nought at all , Once I loved But thousand times have proved a curious Fair Helenes feature Bears this coy creature and Venus hair , Cupids dandling , Her tender breasts handling , betwixt them lies . Love pursued , The more I viewed , love did more rise . She did feed me with delay , and swore to have me , not once to leave me , but vow [ ' ] worser to love me , With the like respect , When she another Sweetheart Better did affect , Void of sorrow , A patience pure I borrow , and wait the time : She neglectful , Of some respectful , does let me pine , Love increased , But could not be released , the more I sue , She ungrateful . To me turns hateful . false , fair , untrue Spend I love , or time of fears , I am neglected , not once respected , but quite rejected , And can nothing gain , But false dissembling love , Or found to love in vain Now a Troylus I still must live , yet joyless of Cresida : Loves mistaken , And I forsaken , am left for aye : Fair she fed me , Until my Daphne fled me , with swiftest wings , Fair she proved , But false she loved so Sire's sings But now my Love hath proved untrue , disdaining pity , to one so witty , I'll sing this ditty , Thus the note shall found , Falsehearted fickle Maids Are better lost then found . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke FINIS . 