Wits never good till 'tis bough OR , Good counsel for improvident men , Fit to make use of now and then . To the tune of Bases Career . ONce musing alone , upon things many a one , Well observ'd and known by my self , especially how , that which late did flow , I have wasted and now I want pelf : this vexed me soar , and made me deplore , That I had not before of it thought , from experience I learn'd , what I since have discern'd , That true wit's never good till 'tis bought . Full many a time , when I was in my prime , My ambition to climb honor's hill , did me forward prick , but my jade did so kick , And dame fortune a trick found to kill , my hope in the bloom , and debased my plume : I did further presume than I ought , then I wished I had stayed , at my own proper trade , But true wit's never never good till 'tis bought . To fight and to brawl , and to quarrel with all , And my betters miscall , I have us'd , but with woe I did find , all are not of one mind , Though I oft in some kind was excus'd , yet sometime I god , a knock with a pot , When to speak and when not , thus I'me taught , now where ever I come , I'll keep peace in the room , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . I used to roar , and to drink on the score , And I never thought more on the shot come Tapster said I , one tooth still is dry , Then fill's ( by and by ) tother pot , I cal'd still apace , but within a short space , Into a strong place , was I bought , then for eight hours waste , foure days I must fast , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . I once had command , of houses and Land , Thus my case well did stand , among men : but moved with pride , and contention beside , I would wrangle or chide , now and then : if a horse I but found , to leap into my ground , Straight away to the pound , he was borough now I wish I had still , kept my neighbours good will , But true wit's never good till 'tis bought . This rancour and spleen , my ruin hath been , As may plainly be seen , by my state : contention in Law , did my purse empty draw , Which I never saw before till 'tis too late , upon every slight thing , I my actium would bring , But my hands now I wring , with the though now I wish I had that , which hath made others flat . But ttue wit's never good till 'tis bought . The second part , To the same tune . IN company base , that are void of all grace , I came often in place , by mere chance , but being with them , whom alone Ide condemn , I'de in presence esteem , and advance : but being apart , catechising my heart , It much sorrow & smart hath me borough then with sad melancholy , I weep for my folly . Thus wits never good till 'tis bought . Beside now and then , I have happened with men , That too cunning have been , at the catch : And then in my drink , I with paper and ink , Have made I did think , a good match : but after when I , more deliberately , The business to trial had brought , I have foined my self cheated , and basely defeated , Thus wit's never good till 'tis bought . Moreover I have , told my mind to a knave , Thinking him truly grave , truly jus I my heart have expos'd , and my secrets disclos'd , As a friend I reposed , on his trus but the Rascal ignoble , his heart being double , Me much woe and trouble hath wrought but I've learned ere since that , to take heed of my chat , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . When I was a Lad , a good service I had , Then my mind was to gadding full bent , though I nothing did lack , nor for belly nor back , Yet I was not with that well content , but upon small distaste , my self I displaced , Thus my downfall in haste then I sought , since I wished to obtain , what I oft did disdain , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . Too willing I was my own credit to pass , Now I find it alas , to my pain , that with setting my hand , to another men band , For to fell house and Land , I was feign , I have passed my word , for what others have scor'd , And I oft like a bird have been caught , in the prison to stay , where I sung Lachrima , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . If any of those , that are ( causeless ) my foes , Should so rashly suppose , in their hearts , that all in this song , to my self does belong , Their conjecture is wrong , for their part , whoever they be , where they something may see , By which every degree , may be taught , what ere's thy profession , thou mayest learn this lesson , That wit's never good till 'tis hought . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . FINIS . Wits never good till 'tis bough OR , Good counsel for improvident men , Fit to make use of now and then . To the tune of Bases Career . ONce musing alone , upon things many a one , Well observ'd and known by my self , especially how , that which late did flow , I have wasted and now I want pelf : this vexed me soar , and made me deplore , That I had not before of it thought , from experience I learn'd , what I since have discern'd , That true wit's never good till 'tis bought . Full many a time , when I was in my prime , My ambition to climb honor's hill , did me forward prick , but my jade did so kick , And dame fortune a trick found to kill , my hope in the bloom , and debased my plume : I did further presume than I ought , then I wished I had stayed , at my own proper trade , But true wit's never never good till 'tis bought . To fight and to brawl , and to quarrel with all , And my betters miscall , I have us'd , but with woe I did find , all are not of one mind , Though I oft in some kind was excus'd , yet sometime I god , a knock with a pot , When to speak and when not , thus I'me taught , now where ever I come , I'll keep peace in the room , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . I used to roar , and to drink on the score , And I never thought more on the shot come Tapster said I , one tooth still is dry , Then fill's ( by and by ) tother pot , I cal'd still apace , but within a short space , Into a strong place , was I bought , then for eight hours waste , foure days I must fast , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . I once had command , of houses and Land , Thus my case well did stand , among men : but moved with pride , and contention beside , I would wrangle or chide , now and then : if a horse I but found , to leap into my ground , Straight away to the pound , he was borough now I wish I had still , kept my neighbours good will , But true wit's never good till 'tis bought . This rancour and spleen , my ruin hath been , As may plainly be seen , by my state : contention in Law , did my purse empty draw , Which I never saw before till 'tis too late , upon every slight thing , I my actium would bring , But my hands now I wring , with the though now I wish I had that , which hath made others flat . But ttue wit's never good till 'tis bought . The second part , To the same tune . IN company base , that are void of all grace , I came often in place , by mere chance , but being with them , whom alone Ide condemn , I'de in presence esteem , and advance : but being apart , catechising my heart , It much sorrow & smart hath me borough then with sad melancholy , I weep for my folly . Thus wits never good till 'tis bought . Beside now and then , I have happened with men , That too cunning have been , at the catch : And then in my drink , I with paper and ink , Have made I did think , a good match : but after when I , more deliberately , The business to trial had brought , I have foined my self cheated , and basely defeated , Thus wit's never good till 'tis bought . Moreover I have , told my mind to a knave , Thinking him truly grave , truly jus I my heart have expos'd , and my secrets disclos'd , As a friend I reposed , on his trus but the Rascal ignoble , his heart being double , Me much woe and trouble hath wrought but I've learned ere since that , to take heed of my chat , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . When I was a Lad , a good service I had , Then my mind was to gadding full bent , though I nothing did lack , nor for belly nor back , Yet I was not with that well content , but upon small distaste , my self I displaced , Thus my downfall in haste then I sought , since I wished to obtain , what I oft did disdain , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . Too willing I was my own credit to pass , Now I find it alas , to my pain , that with setting my hand , to another men band , For to fell house and Land , I was feign , I have passed my word , for what others have scor'd , And I oft like a bird have been caught , in the prison to stay , where I sung Lachrima , Thus true wit's never good till 'tis bought . If any of those , that are ( causeless ) my foes , Should so rashly suppose , in their hearts , that all in this song , to my self does belong , Their conjecture is wrong , for their part , whoever they be , where they something may see , By which every degree , may be taught , what ere's thy profession , thou mayest learn this lesson , That wit's never good till 'tis hought . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . FINIS . 