A new Ballad , entitled , A warning to Youth , showing the lewd life of a Merchants Son of London , and the misery that at the last he sustained by his riotousness . To the tune of the Lord Darley . IN London dwelled a Merchant man , that left unto his Son , A thousand pound in Land a year , to spend when he was gone : With coffer crambd with golden crowns most like a Father kind . To have him follow his own steps , and bear the selfsame mind . Thus every man does know , does know , and his beginning see , But none so wise can show , can show , what will his ending be . No sooner was his father dead , and closed in his grave . But this his wild and wanton son , his mind to lewdness gave . And being but of tender years . found out such company , Which prov'd his fatal overthrow , and final misery . In gluttony and drunkenness , he daily took delght , And still in Strmpets company , he spent the silent nigh Forgetting quite that drunkenness . and filthy lechery , Of all the sins will soonest bring a man to misery . Within the Seas of wanton love , his heart was drowned so deep . A night he could not quietly without strange women sleep . And therefore kept them secretly , to feed his foul desire , Apparell'd all like gallant youths in Pages trim attire . Their garments were of Crimson silk , bedect with lace of gold , Their curled hair was white as milk , most comely to behold . He gave them for their Cognizance , a Purple bleeding heart , In which two silver arrows seem'd , the same in twaine to part . Thus secret were his wanton sports , thus private was his pleasure , Thus Harlots in the shape of men , did wast away his treasure . O woe to lust and lechery , o woe to such a vice That buys repentance all too late , and at too deer a price , Yet he repented not at all , so wilful was his mind , He could not see his infamy , for since had made him blind . But in his heart desir'd a change of wanton pleasures so , That day by day he wishes still , strange women for to know . And so discharging of his train , and selling of his land . To travel into countries strange , he quickly took in hand , And into Antwerpe speedily , thus all aflaunt he goes , To see the dainty Flemish Girls , and gallant Dutchland Froes . For still , quoth he the Dutchland Froes , are kind to Englishmen . I'll have my pleasure of those Girls , or never come again : And being arriv'd in Antwerpe streets , he met a lovely Dame , That was a Widows daughter deer , of good report and fame . Her beauty like the Purple rose , so glistered in his eye , That ravished with the same , he crav'd her secret company . But she like to and honest Maid . by no means would consent , To satisfy his lustful eye , as was his false intent , A hundred days he wholly spent , as many nights in vain , As many angels he consum'd , Her maidenhead to gain . But nothing he prevailed at all , until that Satans aid , And cursed counsel helping him , for to deflower this maid . For like a lustful Lecher he , found such convenient time , That he enforced her to drink , till she was drunk with wine , And being overcharg'd with wine , as Maidens heads be weak : He ravished her there , when that she could no resistance make . For being senseless there she lost her sweet virginity , Which she had kept full twenty years , with great severity , Therefore good Virgins take good heed lest you be thus beguiled . When Wine is settled in your brain , you may be god with Child . And mark , I pray what then befell , unto this modest Dame : When she recovered her lost sense and knew of her defame , In pining grief , she languished long , like Philomel by night And would not come for very shame , in honest Maidens sighs Her womb at last began to swell , her Babe received life : And being neither Widow nor Maid , nor yet a married Wife , Did wish that she had never been born , but in her Cradle dy'd . Then Angels at the gate of Heaven , had crowned her Virgin bright . This Babe that breeds in my womb , ( quoth she ) shall never be born , Nor call'd a bastard by such wives , that hold such love in scorn : For I a Strumpet in disgrace , though one against my will , Before I will so shame my friends , my deer lives blood I'll spill . For as with wine I was deceiv'd and made a vicious Dame , So will I wash away with Wine my scar [ l ] et spots of shame . Then drinking up her burning Wine , she yielded up her breath , By which likewise the unborn Babe , was scalded unto death . Her Mother falling on her knees to heaven did cry and call , If ever Widows curse . quoth she , on mortal man did fallen , Then say , Amen to mine Oh Lord that he may never thrive . That was the cause of this mischance , but rot away alive . His nails from off his fingers dropped , his eyes from out his head . His toes they roted from his feet , before that he was dead , His tongue that had false-sworne so oft , to compass his desire Within his mouth does glow and burn , like coals of sparkling fire : And thus in torment in his sin , this wicked Caitiff dy'd , Whose hateful Carks after death . in earth could not abide , But in the maws of Carrion Crows , and Ravens made a Tomb , A vengeance just on those that use on such vile sins presume : For Widows curses have full of been felt by mortal wights , And for oppressed Widows wrongs , still heavenly Angels fights : For when King Henry the 6 by force was murdered in the Tower , And his fair Queen Widow mad , by Crookbacked Richards power : She so exclaimed to the heavens , for to revenge that deed , That they might die in such like sort , which caused him to bleed Her curses so prevailed God wot , that every one was slain , Or murdered by lie cruel hands , not one there did remain . Both Crookebackt Richard , & his mates Lord Love-l and Buckingam , With many more did feel her curse which needless are to name For widows wrongs still pierce the gate of Gods celestial Throne , And heaven it self will still revenge oppressed widows moan , Take heed , take heed , you wanton youths , take heed by this mishap : Lest for your lust and lechery , you be caught in a trap . Leave off your foul abuses you show to maid and Wives . And by this wanton Merchants fallen , learn how to mend your lives . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . FINIS . A new Ballad , entitled , A warning to Youth , showing the lewd life of a Merchants Son of London , and the misery that at the last he sustained by his riotousness . To the tune of the Lord Darley . IN London dwelled a Merchant man , that left unto his Son , A thousand pound in Land a year , to spend when he was gone : With coffer crambd with golden crowns most like a Father kind . To have him follow his own steps , and bear the selfsame mind . Thus every man does know , does know , and his beginning see , But none so wise can show , can show , what will his ending be . No sooner was his father dead , and closed in his grave . But this his wild and wanton son , his mind to lewdness gave . And being but of tender years . found out such company , Which prov'd his fatal overthrow , and final misery . In gluttony and drunkenness , he daily took delght , And still in Strmpets company , he spent the silent nigh Forgetting quite that drunkenness . and filthy lechery , Of all the sins will soonest bring a man to misery . Within the Seas of wanton love , his heart was drowned so deep . A night he could not quietly without strange women sleep . And therefore kept them secretly , to feed his foul desire , Apparell'd all like gallant youths in Pages trim attire . Their garments were of Crimson silk , bedect with lace of gold , Their curled hair was white as milk , most comely to behold . He gave them for their Cognizance , a Purple bleeding heart , In which two silver arrows seem'd , the same in twaine to part . Thus secret were his wanton sports , thus private was his pleasure , Thus Harlots in the shape of men , did wast away his treasure . O woe to lust and lechery , o woe to such a vice That buys repentance all too late , and at too deer a price , Yet he repented not at all , so wilful was his mind , He could not see his infamy , for since had made him blind . But in his heart desir'd a change of wanton pleasures so , That day by day he wishes still , strange women for to know . And so discharging of his train , and selling of his land . To travel into countries strange , he quickly took in hand , And into Antwerpe speedily , thus all aflaunt he goes , To see the dainty Flemish Girls , and gallant Dutchland Froes . For still , quoth he the Dutchland Froes , are kind to Englishmen . I'll have my pleasure of those Girls , or never come again : And being arriv'd in Antwerpe streets , he met a lovely Dame , That was a Widows daughter deer , of good report and fame . Her beauty like the Purple rose , so glistered in his eye , That ravished with the same , he crav'd her secret company . But she like to and honest Maid . by no means would consent , To satisfy his lustful eye , as was his false intent , A hundred days he wholly spent , as many nights in vain , As many angels he consum'd , Her maidenhead to gain . But nothing he prevailed at all , until that Satans aid , And cursed counsel helping him , for to deflower this maid . For like a lustful Lecher he , found such convenient time , That he enforced her to drink , till she was drunk with wine , And being overcharg'd with wine , as Maidens heads be weak : He ravished her there , when that she could no resistance make . For being senseless there she lost her sweet virginity , Which she had kept full twenty years , with great severity , Therefore good Virgins take good heed lest you be thus beguiled . When Wine is settled in your brain , you may be god with Child . And mark , I pray what then befell , unto this modest Dame : When she recovered her lost sense and knew of her defame , In pining grief , she languished long , like Philomel by night And would not come for very shame , in honest Maidens sighs Her womb at last began to swell , her Babe received life : And being neither Widow nor Maid , nor yet a married Wife , Did wish that she had never been born , but in her Cradle dy'd . Then Angels at the gate of Heaven , had crowned her Virgin bright . This Babe that breeds in my womb , ( quoth she ) shall never be born , Nor call'd a bastard by such wives , that hold such love in scorn : For I a Strumpet in disgrace , though one against my will , Before I will so shame my friends , my deer lives blood I'll spill . For as with wine I was deceiv'd and made a vicious Dame , So will I wash away with Wine my scar [ l ] et spots of shame . Then drinking up her burning Wine , she yielded up her breath , By which likewise the unborn Babe , was scalded unto death . Her Mother falling on her knees to heaven did cry and call , If ever Widows curse . quoth she , on mortal man did fallen , Then say , Amen to mine Oh Lord that he may never thrive . That was the cause of this mischance , but rot away alive . His nails from off his fingers dropped , his eyes from out his head . His toes they roted from his feet , before that he was dead , His tongue that had false-sworne so oft , to compass his desire Within his mouth does glow and burn , like coals of sparkling fire : And thus in torment in his sin , this wicked Caitiff dy'd , Whose hateful Carks after death . in earth could not abide , But in the maws of Carrion Crows , and Ravens made a Tomb , A vengeance just on those that use on such vile sins presume : For Widows curses have full of been felt by mortal wights , And for oppressed Widows wrongs , still heavenly Angels fights : For when King Henry the 6 by force was murdered in the Tower , And his fair Queen Widow mad , by Crookbacked Richards power : She so exclaimed to the heavens , for to revenge that deed , That they might die in such like sort , which caused him to bleed Her curses so prevailed God wot , that every one was slain , Or murdered by lie cruel hands , not one there did remain . Both Crookebackt Richard , & his mates Lord Love-l and Buckingam , With many more did feel her curse which needless are to name For widows wrongs still pierce the gate of Gods celestial Throne , And heaven it self will still revenge oppressed widows moan , Take heed , take heed , you wanton youths , take heed by this mishap : Lest for your lust and lechery , you be caught in a trap . Leave off your foul abuses you show to maid and Wives . And by this wanton Merchants fallen , learn how to mend your lives . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . FINIS . 