The wooing Maid , OR A fair maid neglected , Forlorn and rejected , That would be respected : Which to have effected , This general Summon She sends in common , Come Tinker , come Broomman , She will refuse no man . To the tune of , Is'be the dad ont . I Am a fair Maid if my glass do not flatter , Yet by the effects I can find no such matter : For every one else can have Suitors great plenty , Most marry at fourteene , but I am passed twenty . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid , take me for pity . I see by experience , which makes me to wonder , That many have Sweethearts at fifteene , and under , And if they pass sixteen they think their time wasted , Oh what shall become of me , I am out-casted : Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid , take me for pity . I use all the motives my sex will permit me , To put men in mind , that they may not forget me : Nay sometime I set my commission o'th tenters , Yet let me do what I will never a man venters . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid take me for pity . When I go to weddings , or such merry meetings , I see other maids how they toy with their swee-tings But I fit alone like and abject forsaken , Woe's me for a husband what course shall be taken ? Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid take me for pity . When others to dancing are courteously chosen , I am the last taken among the half dozen , And yet among twenty not one can excel me : What shall I do in this case , some good man tell me . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid take me for pity . The second part To the same tune . This said that one wedding produceth another , This I have herd told by my father and mother : Before one shall escape me , I'll go without bidding , Oh that I could find out some fortunate wedding . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid take me for pity . Sure I am unfortunate of all my kindred , Else could not my happiness be so long hindered : My mother at eighteene had two sons and a daughter , And I'm one and twenty , not worth looking after . Come gentle , etc My sister that's nothing so handsome as I am , Had sixe or seven Suitors , and she did deny them : Yet she before sixteene was luckily marry'd , Oh Fates , why are things so unequally carry'd ? Come gentle , etc My kinswoman Sisly in all parts misshapen , Yet she on a husband by fortune did happen , Before she was nineteene years old ( at the furthest ) Among all my Lineage am I the unworthiest . Come gentle , etc There are almost forty both poorer and younger , Within few years marry'd , ( yet I must stay longer ) Within foure miles compass , Oh is't not a wonder , Scant none above twenty , some s [ ix ] teene , some under . Come gentle , etc I hold my self equal with most in the parish , For feature , for parts , and what chiefly does cherish , The fire of affection , which is store of money , And yet there is no man will set love upon me . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh let me not die a maid , take me for pity . Who ever he be that will ease my affliction , And cast upon me and auspicious affection ; Shall find me tractable still to content him , That he of his bargain shall never repent him . Come gentle , etc I'll neither be given to scold nor be jealous , He never shall want money , to drink with good fellows : While he spends abroad , I at home will be saving , Now judge , am not I a Lass well worth the having ? Come gentle , etc Let none be offended , nor say I'm uncivil , For I needs must have one , be he good or evil : Nay rather then fail I'll have a Tinker or Broomman , A Pedlar , and Inkman , a Mat man , or some man . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh let me not die a maid , take me for pity . M.P. FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . The wooing Maid , OR A fair maid neglected , Forlorn and rejected , That would be respected : Which to have effected , This general Summon She sends in common , Come Tinker , come Broomman , She will refuse no man . To the tune of , Is'be the dad ont . I Am a fair Maid if my glass do not flatter , Yet by the effects I can find no such matter : For every one else can have Suitors great plenty , Most marry at fourteene , but I am passed twenty . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid , take me for pity . I see by experience , which makes me to wonder , That many have Sweethearts at fifteene , and under , And if they pass sixteen they think their time wasted , Oh what shall become of me , I am out-casted : Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid , take me for pity . I use all the motives my sex will permit me , To put men in mind , that they may not forget me : Nay sometime I set my commission o'th tenters , Yet let me do what I will never a man venters . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid take me for pity . When I go to weddings , or such merry meetings , I see other maids how they toy with their swee-tings But I fit alone like and abject forsaken , Woe's me for a husband what course shall be taken ? Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid take me for pity . When others to dancing are courteously chosen , I am the last taken among the half dozen , And yet among twenty not one can excel me : What shall I do in this case , some good man tell me . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid take me for pity . The second part To the same tune . This said that one wedding produceth another , This I have herd told by my father and mother : Before one shall escape me , I'll go without bidding , Oh that I could find out some fortunate wedding . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh if you lack a maid take me for pity . Sure I am unfortunate of all my kindred , Else could not my happiness be so long hindered : My mother at eighteene had two sons and a daughter , And I'm one and twenty , not worth looking after . Come gentle , etc My sister that's nothing so handsome as I am , Had sixe or seven Suitors , and she did deny them : Yet she before sixteene was luckily marry'd , Oh Fates , why are things so unequally carry'd ? Come gentle , etc My kinswoman Sisly in all parts misshapen , Yet she on a husband by fortune did happen , Before she was nineteene years old ( at the furthest ) Among all my Lineage am I the unworthiest . Come gentle , etc There are almost forty both poorer and younger , Within few years marry'd , ( yet I must stay longer ) Within foure miles compass , Oh is't not a wonder , Scant none above twenty , some s [ ix ] teene , some under . Come gentle , etc I hold my self equal with most in the parish , For feature , for parts , and what chiefly does cherish , The fire of affection , which is store of money , And yet there is no man will set love upon me . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh let me not die a maid , take me for pity . Who ever he be that will ease my affliction , And cast upon me and auspicious affection ; Shall find me tractable still to content him , That he of his bargain shall never repent him . Come gentle , etc I'll neither be given to scold nor be jealous , He never shall want money , to drink with good fellows : While he spends abroad , I at home will be saving , Now judge , am not I a Lass well worth the having ? Come gentle , etc Let none be offended , nor say I'm uncivil , For I needs must have one , be he good or evil : Nay rather then fail I'll have a Tinker or Broomman , A Pedlar , and Inkman , a Mat man , or some man . Come gentle , come simple , come foolish , come witty , Oh let me not die a maid , take me for pity . M.P. FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . 