Wat Williams Will . Wellwishing Williams Will and Testament , Which to the Ballad-singer he hath sent , To be dispers'd to all good people kind , That would do well , and bear and honest mind . To the tune of , Then let us to Virginia go . I Wish for no men riches , yet would I were more wealthy ; And those that are both sick and lame I would they were more healthy : I wish to be contented with that which God does send me , And take his blessings in good part , of all that he does lend me . I wish all cruel Landlords would not be stony hearted , That to their Tenants which are poor some Rend be back imparted , Then sure their Heirs would prosper , and not so soon consume it , As some with Dice , and Drabs , and Drink , and Indian-weede perfume it . I wish all Christian people in peace to live together , And not for trifles go to law , or wagging of a feather : The Lawyers they make rich , unto their own undoing , As too too many in this Land do wring their hands with wooing . I wish all Shopkeepers would use true weight and measure , And not with slight and rotten Wares get such a deal of Treasure ; With yea , and nay , and truly , and verily , deer Brother , I cannot fell under that price if 'twere unto my Mother . I wish Artificers and handy-crafty Tradesmen , Would make no slight and rotten Wares , in which they so deceive men ; Their Stuff are nought and rotten , and will not hold the wearing , [ ? ] I wish that Quack-salvers and Mountebanks so busy , That kills so many with their Drug , and live in corners privy , They had some better skill , and not so many murder , Those private faults they do commit the earth does quickly smother . I wish that Farmers rich that hordeth Corn in corners , And those that buys the Bred of life , and hides it in their Garners , It might from them be took , who makes such scarce of plenty , Ere it does rot , as some hath done , and given to Poor that's empty . Would Bakers all were honest ; and Colliers fell true measure , Nor shrink their Sacks to wrong the poor , 'twould do them much pleasure : Would Souters use good Leather , and Tailors leave their stealing , The needy sort should better live , if all us'd honest dealing . I Wish all Tapsters eke , their liquour not to spill it , Nor yet to bombast up their Jugges and Pots , with froth to fill it ; You need not call for drink , if you have money plenty , Hee'l fill your brains and belly full , but soon your pockets empty . I wish all Ostlers eke to leave their double dealing , Nor use to grease their Horses teeth , nor yet their Oats be stealing ; They'l cheat you to your face , strewing Oats on the pecks bottom , [ ? ] The second part , To the same tune . WOuld drunkards leave such drinking , and Gallants leave their roaring : Would desperate Dick forbear to stab , and Leachers leave their whoring : If there were no Pick-pockets , nor Thieves in corners lurking , The Hangman might go hang himself , or starve , for want of working . I doubt some money-mongers that uses great extortion , Which makes Dice of poor men's bones , they shall have Dives portion : I wish that Jailers eke of Country and of City , Would not use Prisoners poor like dogs , but take of them some pity . I wish all men were honest , and all did love true dealing , Nor run in debt good minds to cheat , nor any bent to stealing ; Would there not cheating were , no cogging , nor no lying : Would there were no deceit at all in selling or in buying . Would some receive no bribes , nor double Fees be taking , Some Clients on the surer side would not have hearts so aching , And Termers might keep home , being rul'd by honest Neighbours , As many which were wise have done , and sav'd their Coin and labours . I wish no strifes nor jarring t'wixt married couples happen , And then each thing will prosper well , their children well will batten : All things will well increase , by Gods Almighty power , In discord do not spend your days . nor on each other lower . Likewise I wish all Parents their Children well to nourish , And in Gods word to train them up , which like to Vines will flourish : And Children have a care to please your Parents truly , Then long you shall enjoy the land , and have all things most duly . I wish true amity 'mongst Neighbours may be common ; And that no honest minded man be match't with a bad woman : Nor that and honest wise do with a mad man marry , Being so yoak't , there's nought but strife , and all things seem to vary . I wish all wicked Traitors , and such like bloody fellows , That doe their King and Country hate , were hanged on the Gallows . I wish that peace and plenty may in our Kingdom flourish , And that the Gospels heavenly light we may embrace and nourish . And all wished happiness unto my King I render , That long among us he may reign , in glory and in splendour : Our gracious Queen God bless , and Royal Progeny , Long let them live , and after death place them in Heaven most high . I wish the Clergy well , the Nobles , and the Gentry , The Laymen , and the Commons all , poor men I'll not exempt ye ; Lord send us charity , let us our lives be mending , And give thee thanks for all thy gifts thou still to us art sending . Thus now my Testament I fully have concluded , And wish you well to use these lines which here you have perused : This is my Legacy which unto all is given : The Lord preserve you every one , And send your souls to heaven . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . Wat William Wat Williams Will . Wellwishing Williams Will and Testament , Which to the Ballad-singer he hath sent , To be dispers'd to all good people kind , That would do well , and bear and honest mind . To the tune of , Then let us to Virginia go . I Wish for no men riches , yet would I were more wealthy ; And those that are both sick and lame I would they were more healthy : I wish to be contented with that which God does send me , And take his blessings in good part , of all that he does lend me . I wish all cruel Landlords would not be stony hearted , That to their Tenants which are poor some Rend be back imparted , Then sure their Heirs would prosper , and not so soon consume it , As some with Dice , and Drabs , and Drink , and Indian-weede perfume it . I wish all Christian people in peace to live together , And not for trifles go to law , or wagging of a feather : The Lawyers they make rich , unto their own undoing , As too too many in this Land do wring their hands with wooing . I wish all Shopkeepers would use true weight and measure , And not with slight and rotten Wares get such a deal of Treasure ; With yea , and nay , and truly , and verily , deer Brother , I cannot fell under that price if 'twere unto my Mother . I wish Artificers and handy-crafty Tradesmen , Would make no slight and rotten Wares , in which they so deceive men ; Their Stuff are nought and rotten , and will not hold the wearing , [ ? ] I wish that Quack-salvers and Mountebanks so busy , That kills so many with their Drug , and live in corners privy , They had some better skill , and not so many murder , Those private faults they do commit the earth does quickly smother . I wish that Farmers rich that hordeth Corn in corners , And those that buys the Bred of life , and hides it in their Garners , It might from them be took , who makes such scarce of plenty , Ere it does rot , as some hath done , and given to Poor that's empty . Would Bakers all were honest ; and Colliers fell true measure , Nor shrink their Sacks to wrong the poor , 'twould do them much pleasure : Would Souters use good Leather , and Tailors leave their stealing , The needy sort should better live , if all us'd honest dealing . I Wish all Tapsters eke , their liquour not to spill it , Nor yet to bombast up their Jugges and Pots , with froth to fill it ; You need not call for drink , if you have money plenty , Hee'l fill your brains and belly full , but soon your pockets empty . I wish all Ostlers eke to leave their double dealing , Nor use to grease their Horses teeth , nor yet their Oats be stealing ; They'l cheat you to your face , strewing Oats on the pecks bottom , [ ? ] The second part , To the same tune . WOuld drunkards leave such drinking , and Gallants leave their roaring : Would desperate Dick forbear to stab , and Leachers leave their whoring : If there were no Pick-pockets , nor Thieves in corners lurking , The Hangman might go hang himself , or starve , for want of working . I doubt some money-mongers that uses great extortion , Which makes Dice of poor men's bones , they shall have Dives portion : I wish that Jailers eke of Country and of City , Would not use Prisoners poor like dogs , but take of them some pity . I wish all men were honest , and all did love true dealing , Nor run in debt good minds to cheat , nor any bent to stealing ; Would there not cheating were , no cogging , nor no lying : Would there were no deceit at all in selling or in buying . Would some receive no bribes , nor double Fees be taking , Some Clients on the surer side would not have hearts so aching , And Termers might keep home , being rul'd by honest Neighbours , As many which were wise have done , and sav'd their Coin and labours . I wish no strifes nor jarring t'wixt married couples happen , And then each thing will prosper well , their children well will batten : All things will well increase , by Gods Almighty power , In discord do not spend your days . nor on each other lower . Likewise I wish all Parents their Children well to nourish , And in Gods word to train them up , which like to Vines will flourish : And Children have a care to please your Parents truly , Then long you shall enjoy the land , and have all things most duly . I wish true amity 'mongst Neighbours may be common ; And that no honest minded man be match't with a bad woman : Nor that and honest wise do with a mad man marry , Being so yoak't , there's nought but strife , and all things seem to vary . I wish all wicked Traitors , and such like bloody fellows , That doe their King and Country hate , were hanged on the Gallows . I wish that peace and plenty may in our Kingdom flourish , And that the Gospels heavenly light we may embrace and nourish . And all wished happiness unto my King I render , That long among us he may reign , in glory and in splendour : Our gracious Queen God bless , and Royal Progeny , Long let them live , and after death place them in Heaven most high . I wish the Clergy well , the Nobles , and the Gentry , The Laymen , and the Commons all , poor men I'll not exempt ye ; Lord send us charity , let us our lives be mending , And give thee thanks for all thy gifts thou still to us art sending . Thus now my Testament I fully have concluded , And wish you well to use these lines which here you have perused : This is my Legacy which unto all is given : The Lord preserve you every one , And send your souls to heaven . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . Wat William 