The Manding Soldier : OR , The Fruits of War is Beggary . To the tune of , Permit me Friends . Good your worship cast your eyes , Upon a Soldiers misery's ; Let not my lean cheeks , I pray , Your bounty from a Soldier stay , But like a Noble friend , Some Silver lend , and Jove shall pay you in the end ; And I will pray that Fate , May make you fortunate , in heavenly , and in Earth's estate . To beg I was not born ( sweet Sir ) And therefore blush to make this stir ; I never went from place to place , For to divulge my woeful case : For I am none of those That roguing goes , that manding shows their drunken blows , Which they have only god , While they have bang'd the Pot , in wrangling who should pay the shot . I scorn to make comparison , With those of Kent-street Garrison , That in their lives never crossed the Seas , But still at home have liv'd at ease , Yet will they lie and swear , As though they were , men tO [ would ] tO had travel'd far and near , True Soldiers company , does teach them how to lie , they can discourse most perfectly . But I do scorn such Counterfeits That get their means by base deceits , They learn of others to speak Dutch , Of Holland they'l tell you as much , as those that have been there , full many a year , and name the Towns all far and near , yet they never went beyond Gravesend in Kent , but in Kent-street three days are spent , But in Olympic Games have been , Whereas brave Battles I have seen ; And where the Cannon use to roar , My proper sphere was evermore , the danger I have passed , both first and last , would make your worships self aghast , a thousand times I have been ready for the grave , three times I have been made a Slave . Twice through the Bulk I have been shot , My brains have boiled like a Po I have at lest these doozen times , Been blown up by those roguish Mines , under a Barracado in a Bravado , throwing of a hand-Granado : O death was very near , for it took away my ear , and yet ( thank God ) cham here , cham here The second part . To the same tune . I Have upon the Seas been taken By 'th Dunkerks , for the King of Spaine , And stripped out of my garments quite , Exchanging all for Canvis white , and in that poor array , for many a day , I have been kept , till friends did pay , a ransom for release and having bought my peace , my woes again did fresh increase , There's no Land-service as you can name , But I have been actor in the same , In'th Palatinate and Bohemia , I served many a woeful day , at Frankendale I have , like a Soldier brave , receiv'd what welcomes Canons gave ; for the honour of England , most stoutly did I stand . gainst the Emperors and Spinolaes Band . At push of Pike I lost mine eye , At Bergen Siege I broke my thigh : At Ostend , though I were a Lad , I laid about me as I were mad , O you would little ween , that I had been , and old , old Soldier to the Queen , but if Sir Francis Vere , were living now and here , hee'd tell you how I slashed it there . Since that I have been in Breda , Besieg'd by Marquesse Spinola , And since that made a Warlike Dance , Both into Spaine , and into France , and there I lost a flood of Noble blood , and did but very little good : and now I home am come , with rags about my bumme , God bless you Sir , from this poor sum : And now my case you understand , Good Sir , will you lend your helping hand , A little thing will pleasure me , And keep in use your charity : It is not Bred nor Cheese , nor Barrel Lees , nor any scraps of meat like these , but I do beg of you , a shilling or two , sweet Sir , your Purses strings undo . I pray your worship think on me , That am what I do seem to be , No Rooking Rascal , nor no Cheat , But a Soldier every way complete , I have wounds to show , that prove this so , then courteous good Sir , ease my woe , and I for you will pray , both night and day , that your substance never may decay . Printed at London for F. Grove on Snow-hill . FINIS . M.P. The Manding Soldier : OR , The Fruits of War is Beggary . To the tune of , Permit me Friends . Good your worship cast your eyes , Upon a Soldiers misery's ; Let not my lean cheeks , I pray , Your bounty from a Soldier stay , But like a Noble friend , Some Silver lend , and Jove shall pay you in the end ; And I will pray that Fate , May make you fortunate , in heavenly , and in Earth's estate . To beg I was not born ( sweet Sir ) And therefore blush to make this stir ; I never went from place to place , For to divulge my woeful case : For I am none of those That roguing goes , that manding shows their drunken blows , Which they have only god , While they have bang'd the Pot , in wrangling who should pay the shot . I scorn to make comparison , With those of Kent-street Garrison , That in their lives never crossed the Seas , But still at home have liv'd at ease , Yet will they lie and swear , As though they were , men tO [ would ] tO had travel'd far and near , True Soldiers company , does teach them how to lie , they can discourse most perfectly . But I do scorn such Counterfeits That get their means by base deceits , They learn of others to speak Dutch , Of Holland they'l tell you as much , as those that have been there , full many a year , and name the Towns all far and near , yet they never went beyond Gravesend in Kent , but in Kent-street three days are spent , But in Olympic Games have been , Whereas brave Battles I have seen ; And where the Cannon use to roar , My proper sphere was evermore , the danger I have passed , both first and last , would make your worships self aghast , a thousand times I have been ready for the grave , three times I have been made a Slave . Twice through the Bulk I have been shot , My brains have boiled like a Po I have at lest these doozen times , Been blown up by those roguish Mines , under a Barracado in a Bravado , throwing of a hand-Granado : O death was very near , for it took away my ear , and yet ( thank God ) cham here , cham here The second part . To the same tune . I Have upon the Seas been taken By 'th Dunkerks , for the King of Spaine , And stripped out of my garments quite , Exchanging all for Canvis white , and in that poor array , for many a day , I have been kept , till friends did pay , a ransom for release and having bought my peace , my woes again did fresh increase , There's no Land-service as you can name , But I have been actor in the same , In'th Palatinate and Bohemia , I served many a woeful day , at Frankendale I have , like a Soldier brave , receiv'd what welcomes Canons gave ; for the honour of England , most stoutly did I stand . gainst the Emperors and Spinolaes Band . At push of Pike I lost mine eye , At Bergen Siege I broke my thigh : At Ostend , though I were a Lad , I laid about me as I were mad , O you would little ween , that I had been , and old , old Soldier to the Queen , but if Sir Francis Vere , were living now and here , hee'd tell you how I slashed it there . Since that I have been in Breda , Besieg'd by Marquesse Spinola , And since that made a Warlike Dance , Both into Spaine , and into France , and there I lost a flood of Noble blood , and did but very little good : and now I home am come , with rags about my bumme , God bless you Sir , from this poor sum : And now my case you understand , Good Sir , will you lend your helping hand , A little thing will pleasure me , And keep in use your charity : It is not Bred nor Cheese , nor Barrel Lees , nor any scraps of meat like these , but I do beg of you , a shilling or two , sweet Sir , your Purses strings undo . I pray your worship think on me , That am what I do seem to be , No Rooking Rascal , nor no Cheat , But a Soldier every way complete , I have wounds to show , that prove this so , then courteous good Sir , ease my woe , and I for you will pray , both night and day , that your substance never may decay . Printed at London for F. Grove on Snow-hill . FINIS . M.P. 