The World's Sweet-hear Whereby it is showed that Mistress Money , Is the world's Sweetheart and Hony. To the tune of , The Beggar Boy . SWeet Mistress Money I here will declare , thy beauty which every one adores , The lofty gallant and beggar so bore , some help and comfort from thee imploreth : For thou art become the world's sweetheart , while every one does make thee their honey , And loath they are from thee to depart , so well they do love sweet Mistress Money . Money is that which all men obey , the wealthy rich miser dotes upon it , He puts her to trading until such a day , and is very careful in parting from i It joys him to see a great heap of wealth , and Lady Pecunia is his deer honey , While he is content for to starve himself , even for the love of Mistress Money . The City of London does take great care , to gain her favour by some new fashion , And for her sake they will give you such ware , as there is not better in any Nation : For every ones heart is now set upon her , and she is become their only deer Honey , Where ever she goes her steps they do honour so well they do love sweet Mistress Money . Though Moneys complexion be very white , yet I do think there was never yet any Could equal her beauty which is so bright , so that she hath friends and lovers many . Each one will lend her a helping hand , to carry abroad their dearest honey , And they will be ready at her command , even for the love of Mistress Money . Your Country men to the Market will go , with corn and such other like provision , And to procure money sometime you do know they will fell it off upon any condition : To cure their hearts of sorrow and care , the savour of coin is as sweet as honey , And they are glad to fell off their ware , even for the love of Mistress Money . The Shepherd that lies abroad in the field , and never careth for wind or weather , Does hope that his sheep some profit will yield , which makes him to keep them all together : For he will fit on the side of a Rock , or else lie upon a green bank that is sunny , And there he will keep his poor little flock , even for the love of Mistress Money . The second part , To the same tune . IN City and Country and every place , this money that is so much respected , For she can never receive disgrace , since many devises are still projected By those which seek her favour to gain , and make her their only delight and honey , For they will refuse no labour and pain , in hope for to get sweet Mistress Money . I think the world shall come to and end , before that Money shall be despised , For in every corner she hath a close friend , and by every one she is highly prised : In every country where ever you ride , the savour of coin is sweet as the honey , And all the Inns on the road do provide , to entertain sweet mistress Money . Now Cupid may lay by his quiver and bow , whereby sometime much love was procured , Since now to marry they are very slow , unless that a portion may be assured : For that does carry their fancy away , so that young men do make it their honey , And many a wedding without all delay , is made up for the love of money . Mark where you do come & you shall still find , that for your money you shall be attended , My Host and my Hostess will be very kind , but when that your silver and coin is spended Faith then you may go with much grief & woe because you have parted from your deer honey ; For that respect which to you they did show , was for the love of mistress Money . At Rome the priests do make her a Saint , who cheat the people by found delusion , And if that you no money do want , you shall for your sins have and absolution : Thus in foreign countries wherever you go , this Mammon is counted their only honey , And unto you much kindness they'l show , even for the love of mistress Money . The Seaman likewise will travail abroad , in storms & in tempests his heart never faileth Until with commodities he be well stor'd , and then through the Ocean he lustily saileth He cares not if that he meet with some blows , for he so esteems his dearest honey , That he spreadeth his sails and away he goes , & sometime he brings home gold & Money . Thus all men's affections are equally bent , to Money , which makes them full of mettle , And when they do want it they are discontent , because their love on it they do settle : Yet I would not have you to set your heart on worldly treasure to make it your honey , But to buy this ditty before you depart , if that you do love sweet Mistress Money . FINIS . Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horshoo in Smithfield . The World's Sweet-hear Whereby it is showed that Mistress Money , Is the world's Sweetheart and Hony. To the tune of , The Beggar Boy . SWeet Mistress Money I here will declare , thy beauty which every one adores , The lofty gallant and beggar so bore , some help and comfort from thee imploreth : For thou art become the world's sweetheart , while every one does make thee their honey , And loath they are from thee to depart , so well they do love sweet Mistress Money . Money is that which all men obey , the wealthy rich miser dotes upon it , He puts her to trading until such a day , and is very careful in parting from i It joys him to see a great heap of wealth , and Lady Pecunia is his deer honey , While he is content for to starve himself , even for the love of Mistress Money . The City of London does take great care , to gain her favour by some new fashion , And for her sake they will give you such ware , as there is not better in any Nation : For every ones heart is now set upon her , and she is become their only deer Honey , Where ever she goes her steps they do honour so well they do love sweet Mistress Money . Though Moneys complexion be very white , yet I do think there was never yet any Could equal her beauty which is so bright , so that she hath friends and lovers many . Each one will lend her a helping hand , to carry abroad their dearest honey , And they will be ready at her command , even for the love of Mistress Money . Your Country men to the Market will go , with corn and such other like provision , And to procure money sometime you do know they will fell it off upon any condition : To cure their hearts of sorrow and care , the savour of coin is as sweet as honey , And they are glad to fell off their ware , even for the love of Mistress Money . The Shepherd that lies abroad in the field , and never careth for wind or weather , Does hope that his sheep some profit will yield , which makes him to keep them all together : For he will fit on the side of a Rock , or else lie upon a green bank that is sunny , And there he will keep his poor little flock , even for the love of Mistress Money . The second part , To the same tune . IN City and Country and every place , this money that is so much respected , For she can never receive disgrace , since many devises are still projected By those which seek her favour to gain , and make her their only delight and honey , For they will refuse no labour and pain , in hope for to get sweet Mistress Money . I think the world shall come to and end , before that Money shall be despised , For in every corner she hath a close friend , and by every one she is highly prised : In every country where ever you ride , the savour of coin is sweet as the honey , And all the Inns on the road do provide , to entertain sweet mistress Money . Now Cupid may lay by his quiver and bow , whereby sometime much love was procured , Since now to marry they are very slow , unless that a portion may be assured : For that does carry their fancy away , so that young men do make it their honey , And many a wedding without all delay , is made up for the love of money . Mark where you do come & you shall still find , that for your money you shall be attended , My Host and my Hostess will be very kind , but when that your silver and coin is spended Faith then you may go with much grief & woe because you have parted from your deer honey ; For that respect which to you they did show , was for the love of mistress Money . At Rome the priests do make her a Saint , who cheat the people by found delusion , And if that you no money do want , you shall for your sins have and absolution : Thus in foreign countries wherever you go , this Mammon is counted their only honey , And unto you much kindness they'l show , even for the love of mistress Money . The Seaman likewise will travail abroad , in storms & in tempests his heart never faileth Until with commodities he be well stor'd , and then through the Ocean he lustily saileth He cares not if that he meet with some blows , for he so esteems his dearest honey , That he spreadeth his sails and away he goes , & sometime he brings home gold & Money . Thus all men's affections are equally bent , to Money , which makes them full of mettle , And when they do want it they are discontent , because their love on it they do settle : Yet I would not have you to set your heart on worldly treasure to make it your honey , But to buy this ditty before you depart , if that you do love sweet Mistress Money . FINIS . Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horshoo in Smithfield . 