A Wondered Example of God's Justice showed upon one Jasper Conningham A Gentleman born in Scotland , who was of Opinion , that there was neither GOD , nor Devil . To the Tune of , Oh Neighbour Robert . IT was a Scotchman , a Scotchman , lewd of life , That long had lived unlawful from his Wife : His name was Jasper Conningham as I did understand , Whose dwelling was at Aberdeen , a Town in fair Scotland . He had a Sister which was both fair and bright , Worshipfully Wedded , unto a worthy Knight . Godly , wise , and virtuous , in every thing was she , A fairer comely Lady in Scotland could not be . Her wicked Brother such inward pains did prove , That with his Fair Sister he greatly was in love : He watches time and wooes her , he shows to her his mind , And still he says sweet Sister , be not to me unkind . This comely Lady in mild and gentle wise , Unto her brother thus modestly replies : The Lord forbid , dear Brother , I should consent at all , To such a damned actium , to bring our Souls in thrall . Are not great torments prepar'd for hateful since ? Is not God as Righteous as ever he hath been ? Is not Hell prepared , with quenchless flames of fire , To give such wicked persons their due deserved hire , Wherefore dear Brother , repent and call for Grace , Let not these motions within your heart take place : Consider how to judgement we shall be one day brought , To answer for our Follies , which in our lives we w [ r ] ought . Her Brother hearing her Godly Christian talk , Within the Garden as they alone did walk ; Blasphemously replied , as shameless as he stood , Saying she had declar'd a Tale of Robin Hood . You are deceived , fair Sister , then said he , To talk of Heavens Glory , or Hells plagues unto me : These are devised Fables , to keep poor Souls in fear , That were by wise men written , though no such things there were . You speak of reckoning , and of a judgment-day , And after life is ended , and flesh consum'd away ; And of a God most justly , will plague all things amiss , And those that do believe it , are much deceiv'd I wis . Alas , said he , my Sister , these things are nothing so ; No God , nor Devil is biding , in Heaven nor Hell I know : All things are wrought by Nature the Earth ; the Air , the Sky , There is no joy nor sorrow , after that men do die . Therefore let me have pleasure , while here I do remain , I fear not God's disple [ a ] sure , nor Hells tormenting pain : No sooner had he spoken this foul blasphemous thing , But that a heavy judgement upon him God did bring . For in the Garden , whereas he did abide , Suddenly a Fire sprung up on every side ; Which round about enclosed this damned wretch that day , Who roar'd and cry'd most grievous but could not start away . THis fearful fire , up to his knees did rise , Burning blue like Brimstone , in most outrageous wise : The Lady which beheld it , ran crying in for aid , To pluck away her Brother , which in the fire stayed . But nought prevailed , for all that they could do , Long Staves , and also Pitchforks , they reached him unto ; Because they durst not venture near to the fiery flame , He taking hold upon them , to draw him out of the same . But not a finger nor hand that he could move , His Arms hung dead behind him , great pains that he did prove ; And now he bans and curses that day that he was born , And wishes that his Carcase by Devils might be torn . Now I feel surely , quoth he , there is a God , That sorely does plague me with his strong Iron Rod : Oh hide me from his presence , his looks are death to me , Nothing but wrath and vengeance about him do I see . I have despised him , but can no whit repent , My heart is hardened , my mind cannot relent , No pity nor compassion , nor mercy is in store , For me vile wretched creature , despis'd for evermore . I am in Hell tormented , and to endless pain , Look how the Devils torment me in stretching every vein : Look how they swarm about me , Oh what hell fiends are these , Woe worth the time that ever I did the Lord displease . I burn in flaming fire , yet do no whit consume , My conscience does torment me , that did in since presume : Alas ! my loving sister , now do I know full well , There is a God most righteous and eke a Devil in hell . And with these speeches his Eyes fell from his head , And by strings hung dangling below his Chin stark dead : See how the Devils , then he said , hath plucked my eyes out quite , That always was unworthy to view the heavenly light . Then from his mouth there fell his foul blasphemous tongue , In very ugly manner , most piteously it hung ; And there away he rotted , in all the Peoples sighed , By Lice and filthy Vermin , it was consumed quite . With ghastly groaning and shrieks that sounded high , Two hours after this Cursed Man did lie ; And there at length he died , and then the fire ceas'd ; His Carcase stunk more filthy than any Carrion Beast . No man was able for to endure the smell , Nor yet to come to bury him , as true Report does tell ; Until he was consumed he lay above the ground , The doors about the Garden , therefore was locked round . Let all Blasphemers take warning by this thing ; lest that God's Vengeance they do upon them bring : And Lord grant all Christians thy holy Grace and fear , They may think on the punishment that Conningham had here . Printed for Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Ar - bor-Court in the Little Old - Baily . A Wondered Example of God's Justice showed upon one Jasper Conningham A Gentleman born in Scotland , who was of Opinion , that there was neither GOD , nor Devil . To the Tune of , Oh Neighbour Robert . IT was a Scotchman , a Scotchman , lewd of life , That long had lived unlawful from his Wife : His name was Jasper Conningham as I did understand , Whose dwelling was at Aberdeen , a Town in fair Scotland . He had a Sister which was both fair and bright , Worshipfully Wedded , unto a worthy Knight . Godly , wise , and virtuous , in every thing was she , A fairer comely Lady in Scotland could not be . Her wicked Brother such inward pains did prove , That with his Fair Sister he greatly was in love : He watches time and wooes her , he shows to her his mind , And still he says sweet Sister , be not to me unkind . This comely Lady in mild and gentle wise , Unto her brother thus modestly replies : The Lord forbid , dear Brother , I should consent at all , To such a damned actium , to bring our Souls in thrall . Are not great torments prepar'd for hateful since ? Is not God as Righteous as ever he hath been ? Is not Hell prepared , with quenchless flames of fire , To give such wicked persons their due deserved hire , Wherefore dear Brother , repent and call for Grace , Let not these motions within your heart take place : Consider how to judgement we shall be one day brought , To answer for our Follies , which in our lives we w [ r ] ought . Her Brother hearing her Godly Christian talk , Within the Garden as they alone did walk ; Blasphemously replied , as shameless as he stood , Saying she had declar'd a Tale of Robin Hood . You are deceived , fair Sister , then said he , To talk of Heavens Glory , or Hells plagues unto me : These are devised Fables , to keep poor Souls in fear , That were by wise men written , though no such things there were . You speak of reckoning , and of a judgment-day , And after life is ended , and flesh consum'd away ; And of a God most justly , will plague all things amiss , And those that do believe it , are much deceiv'd I wis . Alas , said he , my Sister , these things are nothing so ; No God , nor Devil is biding , in Heaven nor Hell I know : All things are wrought by Nature the Earth ; the Air , the Sky , There is no joy nor sorrow , after that men do die . Therefore let me have pleasure , while here I do remain , I fear not God's disple [ a ] sure , nor Hells tormenting pain : No sooner had he spoken this foul blasphemous thing , But that a heavy judgement upon him God did bring . For in the Garden , whereas he did abide , Suddenly a Fire sprung up on every side ; Which round about enclosed this damned wretch that day , Who roar'd and cry'd most grievous but could not start away . THis fearful fire , up to his knees did rise , Burning blue like Brimstone , in most outrageous wise : The Lady which beheld it , ran crying in for aid , To pluck away her Brother , which in the fire stayed . But nought prevailed , for all that they could do , Long Staves , and also Pitchforks , they reached him unto ; Because they durst not venture near to the fiery flame , He taking hold upon them , to draw him out of the same . But not a finger nor hand that he could move , His Arms hung dead behind him , great pains that he did prove ; And now he bans and curses that day that he was born , And wishes that his Carcase by Devils might be torn . Now I feel surely , quoth he , there is a God , That sorely does plague me with his strong Iron Rod : Oh hide me from his presence , his looks are death to me , Nothing but wrath and vengeance about him do I see . I have despised him , but can no whit repent , My heart is hardened , my mind cannot relent , No pity nor compassion , nor mercy is in store , For me vile wretched creature , despis'd for evermore . I am in Hell tormented , and to endless pain , Look how the Devils torment me in stretching every vein : Look how they swarm about me , Oh what hell fiends are these , Woe worth the time that ever I did the Lord displease . I burn in flaming fire , yet do no whit consume , My conscience does torment me , that did in since presume : Alas ! my loving sister , now do I know full well , There is a God most righteous and eke a Devil in hell . And with these speeches his Eyes fell from his head , And by strings hung dangling below his Chin stark dead : See how the Devils , then he said , hath plucked my eyes out quite , That always was unworthy to view the heavenly light . Then from his mouth there fell his foul blasphemous tongue , In very ugly manner , most piteously it hung ; And there away he rotted , in all the Peoples sighed , By Lice and filthy Vermin , it was consumed quite . With ghastly groaning and shrieks that sounded high , Two hours after this Cursed Man did lie ; And there at length he died , and then the fire ceas'd ; His Carcase stunk more filthy than any Carrion Beast . No man was able for to endure the smell , Nor yet to come to bury him , as true Report does tell ; Until he was consumed he lay above the ground , The doors about the Garden , therefore was locked round . Let all Blasphemers take warning by this thing ; lest that God's Vengeance they do upon them bring : And Lord grant all Christians thy holy Grace and fear , They may think on the punishment that Conningham had here . Printed for Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Ar - bor-Court in the Little Old - Baily . 