The godly end , and woeful lamentation of one John Stevens , a youth , that was hang'd , drawn , and quartered for High-Treason , at Salisbury in Wiltshire , upon Thursday being the seventh day of March last 1632. with the setting up of his quarters on the City gates . To the tune of Fortune my foe , etc NOw like the Swan before my death I sing , And like the Raven heavy news I bring , O dismal fate , and cruel destiny , Which brought me here in this same sort to die . Did ever any hear of one so young , That was so bad and had so vile a tongue : Which was the cause that brought me to that fallen , For which to God I now for mercy call . In famous Wiltshire was I born and bred , And by my careful Parents nourished , Ah woe is me , John Stevens is my name , That to my friends and kindred am a shame . O let me be example unto all , That they may never in such mischief fallen , Children and Prentices , old and young , Serve God in heart , and govern well your tongue . It was the Devil that wrought my overthrow , It was the Devil that brought me to this woe , And 'cause I did not serve my God aright , Satan with shame does thus my deeds requite . In famous Salisbury , that City fair , My Parents bound me Prentice with great care , But careless I , my life did lewdly spend , Which brings me to a shameful timeless end . To God above I do for mercy cry , This for High-treason , that I here must die , Drawn , hang'd , & quartered , this is now my doom , My body must have neither grave nor tomb , And for my fact that was so vild and base , I apprehended was in that same place , And strait to London then I up was brought To be examin'd , where I soon was caught . To the Kings-bench then was I strait way led , Where I a year almost continued , And then from thence I was again sent down , To be arraign'd next Sises at our Town . There by just Justice I my Trial had , Which soon condemn'd me for my fact so bad ; My Judgement was I should from thence be sent , To Prison back , a while for to repent . The second part , To the same tune . ANd then I should be on a Hurdle laid And to my Execution place convaid , Where in a Rope I there should strangled be , In shameful manner for each one to see . My Members , and my Bowels forth be cut , And in a flaming fire they should be put , There to consume and unto ashes turn , As wicked members there they then must burn . My Body must in quarters eke be cut , And on the City gates they should be put , To be a sighed for others to take heed , Where ravenous Fowls upon my flesh will feed . And now I do beseech you Parents all , That here are come to see my timeless fallen , In virtues paths do [ e ] you your children train , That they may heaven and heavenly thoughts retain , O do not suffer them to curse and swear , But train them up the God of heaven to fear , Teach them obedience to their Sovereign King , And their Superiors , whence does virtue spring . And Children all do you example take , O let me be a warning for your sake , Spend not your lives so vain as I have done , Whose glass is broke before my sand is run . Unto your Parents reverend honour give , The Lord commands it , then you long shall live , Your days he says shall be long in the land , This is your duty , as he does command . Honour the King , for so the Lord does say , And see the Magistrate you do obey , Unto your Equals loving be and kind , To your inferiors bear and humble mind . But now , Oh Lord , for mercy I entreat , Thou canst forgive although my sins are great , Lord make me clean , & make me clear as glass , And then the Snow I shall in whiteness pass . Great God upon me pour the Spirit of grace , And then in Heaven I hope I shall find place , Christ my Redeemer , he hath died for me , My soul I hope with him in heaven shall be . Lord bless the King , and send him long to reign , Preserve the Queen , their Issue , & their Train , And God forgive me , and my Prince I pray , Whose Laws and Statutes I did disobey . Lord let thy Gospel flourish in this Land , Grant that the truth may flourish still and stand , Preserve the Clergy , Nobles , and the State , And keep the Commons from all strife and hate . Vain world farewell , I am prepar'd to die , My Soul I hope , shall straight ascend the sky ; I come , Lord Jesus , now I come to thee , To thee one God , yet holy Trinitie . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . The godly end , and woeful lamentation of one John Stevens , a youth , that was hang'd , drawn , and quartered for High-Treason , at Salisbury in Wiltshire , upon Thursday being the seventh day of March last 1632. with the setting up of his quarters on the City gates . To the tune of Fortune my foe , etc NOw like the Swan before my death I sing , And like the Raven heavy news I bring , O dismal fate , and cruel destiny , Which brought me here in this same sort to die . Did ever any hear of one so young , That was so bad and had so vile a tongue : Which was the cause that brought me to that fallen , For which to God I now for mercy call . In famous Wiltshire was I born and bred , And by my careful Parents nourished , Ah woe is me , John Stevens is my name , That to my friends and kindred am a shame . O let me be example unto all , That they may never in such mischief fallen , Children and Prentices , old and young , Serve God in heart , and govern well your tongue . It was the Devil that wrought my overthrow , It was the Devil that brought me to this woe , And 'cause I did not serve my God aright , Satan with shame does thus my deeds requite . In famous Salisbury , that City fair , My Parents bound me Prentice with great care , But careless I , my life did lewdly spend , Which brings me to a shameful timeless end . To God above I do for mercy cry , This for High-treason , that I here must die , Drawn , hang'd , & quartered , this is now my doom , My body must have neither grave nor tomb , And for my fact that was so vild and base , I apprehended was in that same place , And strait to London then I up was brought To be examin'd , where I soon was caught . To the Kings-bench then was I strait way led , Where I a year almost continued , And then from thence I was again sent down , To be arraign'd next Sises at our Town . There by just Justice I my Trial had , Which soon condemn'd me for my fact so bad ; My Judgement was I should from thence be sent , To Prison back , a while for to repent . The second part , To the same tune . ANd then I should be on a Hurdle laid And to my Execution place convaid , Where in a Rope I there should strangled be , In shameful manner for each one to see . My Members , and my Bowels forth be cut , And in a flaming fire they should be put , There to consume and unto ashes turn , As wicked members there they then must burn . My Body must in quarters eke be cut , And on the City gates they should be put , To be a sighed for others to take heed , Where ravenous Fowls upon my flesh will feed . And now I do beseech you Parents all , That here are come to see my timeless fallen , In virtues paths do [ e ] you your children train , That they may heaven and heavenly thoughts retain , O do not suffer them to curse and swear , But train them up the God of heaven to fear , Teach them obedience to their Sovereign King , And their Superiors , whence does virtue spring . And Children all do you example take , O let me be a warning for your sake , Spend not your lives so vain as I have done , Whose glass is broke before my sand is run . Unto your Parents reverend honour give , The Lord commands it , then you long shall live , Your days he says shall be long in the land , This is your duty , as he does command . Honour the King , for so the Lord does say , And see the Magistrate you do obey , Unto your Equals loving be and kind , To your inferiors bear and humble mind . But now , Oh Lord , for mercy I entreat , Thou canst forgive although my sins are great , Lord make me clean , & make me clear as glass , And then the Snow I shall in whiteness pass . Great God upon me pour the Spirit of grace , And then in Heaven I hope I shall find place , Christ my Redeemer , he hath died for me , My soul I hope with him in heaven shall be . Lord bless the King , and send him long to reign , Preserve the Queen , their Issue , & their Train , And God forgive me , and my Prince I pray , Whose Laws and Statutes I did disobey . Lord let thy Gospel flourish in this Land , Grant that the truth may flourish still and stand , Preserve the Clergy , Nobles , and the State , And keep the Commons from all strife and hate . Vain world farewell , I am prepar'd to die , My Soul I hope , shall straight ascend the sky ; I come , Lord Jesus , now I come to thee , To thee one God , yet holy Trinitie . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . 