A wonderful wonder , Being a most strange and true relation of the resolute life , and mi - serable death of Thomas Miles , who did forswear himself , and wished that God might show some heavy example upon him , and so it came to pass for as he sat at his Meat he choked himself , and died in short space after , which happened the 8. of August last , 1635. and being ripped up by the Chirurgeons of S. Bartholomewes Hospital , was found to have a gub of meat sticking fast in his throat , which was the cause of his death . Written to warn all rash Swearers to forsake their evil ways , which God grant we may . To the tune of , Aim not too high , etc Look down Oh Lord upon this sinful Land , Guide , and defend us with thy mighty hand , Against the fiery Darts of Satans power , Which seeks our Souls and Bodies to devour . This World is full of envy and debate , Neighbour to neighbour bears a deadly hate : Brother 'gainst Sister , friend against each friend , Which shows the World is very near and end . Vile blasphemy is us'd against the Lord , By old and young at every trifling word : Some in their angry mood will Curse & Swear , As if they would their God in pieces tear . But let them know that do the Lord provoke By cursed oaths , on them to strike the stroke : Know that although he suffers them a space , He will at last confound their wicked raze . As for example , here I mean to tell A strange relation which of late befell , Of one a forsworn wretch as is well known , On whom the Lord a wonder great hath shown . This wretched man of whom these lines are pend , Deni'd a truth , a bad cause to defend : And rashly wish'd in place whereas he stood , That he might never eat meat to do him good , Now mark Gods Judgements how they strangely fell , A short time after , grief it is to tell : He with some others more to Dinner went , To give their hungry stomachs some content . But as they sat at Table with their meat , Having made bargain for't they fell to eat : This forsworn wretch Tom Miles call'd by name , Fed very greedily upon the same . And thrusting in a bit that would not pass Quite down his throat , his luckless hap it was To choke himself , the very truth was so , While all the rest behel'd him with great woe . Unto a Surgent then he ran with speed , Desiring him to help him in his need : But all in vain , no help for him could be , His breath was stopped , and he dy'd presently . The second part , To the same tune . ANd being dead the Surgeons took in hand , To rip him up , that they might understand The truth and reason how he lost his breath , And how he came by his untimely death . Which having done they found with woe at last , The gub of meat stick in his throat so fast , Which was the cause of this his lives decay , Because it could not thence be put away . Within the Hospital his corpses does lie , Men of good credit can it testify , His body buried was without control , But God grant mercy to his soul . Let this example warn us to amend , That we by oaths may not our God offend : Oh let each Man and Woman now refrain From taking of Gods holy name in vain . He that delights in Oaths and Curses vild , And hath therewith his spotted Soul defiled : May now bewail the time that he was born , Sin is the cause that makes a Land to mourn . High time it is for us to watch and pray Upon our bent knees both night and day , Unto our God , that he will mercy take On us poor souls for Jesus Christ his sake . For surely this we well may understand The Lord is angry with this sinful Land : His judgements hath so many ways been shown Throughout our coasts as is to many known . What visions in the Air , and fearful sights Have been of late , which wonder may affrights , Thunder , and Lightnings , to procure our fears , Enough to make each flinty heart shed tears . All those are signs to warn us to repent , Which God as messengers hath to us sent For to reclaim us from our former sin , Which we so long have slept and wallowed in . But to conclude , sweet Jesus give us grace , That we on earth may run a godly raze : That when by death our life is taken away , We may through thee eternal life enjoy . FINIS . L.F. Printed at London for John Wright junior , dwell - ling at the upper end of the Old Baily . A wonderful wonder , Being a most strange and true relation of the resolute life , and mi - serable death of Thomas Miles , who did forswear himself , and wished that God might show some heavy example upon him , and so it came to pass for as he sat at his Meat he choked himself , and died in short space after , which happened the 8. of August last , 1635. and being ripped up by the Chirurgeons of S. Bartholomewes Hospital , was found to have a gub of meat sticking fast in his throat , which was the cause of his death . Written to warn all rash Swearers to forsake their evil ways , which God grant we may . To the tune of , Aim not too high , etc Look down Oh Lord upon this sinful Land , Guide , and defend us with thy mighty hand , Against the fiery Darts of Satans power , Which seeks our Souls and Bodies to devour . This World is full of envy and debate , Neighbour to neighbour bears a deadly hate : Brother 'gainst Sister , friend against each friend , Which shows the World is very near and end . Vile blasphemy is us'd against the Lord , By old and young at every trifling word : Some in their angry mood will Curse & Swear , As if they would their God in pieces tear . But let them know that do the Lord provoke By cursed oaths , on them to strike the stroke : Know that although he suffers them a space , He will at last confound their wicked raze . As for example , here I mean to tell A strange relation which of late befell , Of one a forsworn wretch as is well known , On whom the Lord a wonder great hath shown . This wretched man of whom these lines are pend , Deni'd a truth , a bad cause to defend : And rashly wish'd in place whereas he stood , That he might never eat meat to do him good , Now mark Gods Judgements how they strangely fell , A short time after , grief it is to tell : He with some others more to Dinner went , To give their hungry stomachs some content . But as they sat at Table with their meat , Having made bargain for't they fell to eat : This forsworn wretch Tom Miles call'd by name , Fed very greedily upon the same . And thrusting in a bit that would not pass Quite down his throat , his luckless hap it was To choke himself , the very truth was so , While all the rest behel'd him with great woe . Unto a Surgent then he ran with speed , Desiring him to help him in his need : But all in vain , no help for him could be , His breath was stopped , and he dy'd presently . The second part , To the same tune . ANd being dead the Surgeons took in hand , To rip him up , that they might understand The truth and reason how he lost his breath , And how he came by his untimely death . Which having done they found with woe at last , The gub of meat stick in his throat so fast , Which was the cause of this his lives decay , Because it could not thence be put away . Within the Hospital his corpses does lie , Men of good credit can it testify , His body buried was without control , But God grant mercy to his soul . Let this example warn us to amend , That we by oaths may not our God offend : Oh let each Man and Woman now refrain From taking of Gods holy name in vain . He that delights in Oaths and Curses vild , And hath therewith his spotted Soul defiled : May now bewail the time that he was born , Sin is the cause that makes a Land to mourn . High time it is for us to watch and pray Upon our bent knees both night and day , Unto our God , that he will mercy take On us poor souls for Jesus Christ his sake . For surely this we well may understand The Lord is angry with this sinful Land : His judgements hath so many ways been shown Throughout our coasts as is to many known . What visions in the Air , and fearful sights Have been of late , which wonder may affrights , Thunder , and Lightnings , to procure our fears , Enough to make each flinty heart shed tears . All those are signs to warn us to repent , Which God as messengers hath to us sent For to reclaim us from our former sin , Which we so long have slept and wallowed in . But to conclude , sweet Jesus give us grace , That we on earth may run a godly raze : That when by death our life is taken away , We may through thee eternal life enjoy . FINIS . L.F. Printed at London for John Wright junior , dwell - ling at the upper end of the Old Baily . 