A cruel murder committed lately upon the body of Abraham Gearsy , who liv'd in the Parish of Westmill , in the County of Harford ; by one Robert Reeve , and Richard Reeve , both of the same Parish : for which fact Robert was pressed to death , on Munday the 16. of March , and the Tuesday following Richard was hang'd ; and after both them were hang'd up in chains , where now they do remain , to the affright - ment of all beholders . 1635. To the tune of Fortune my Foe . I Pray give ear unto my tale of we , Which I'll declare that all may plainly know . Near Harford lately was a murder done , Oh it cruel one , as ever was known . The good with evil herein was repayed , Him that did good the evil hath betrayed , The world is lately grown to such a pass , That one may fear another in this case . This money is the cause of manies death , As it the cause that one late lost his breath , The devil and the money works together , As by my subject you may well consider . With tears of woe I am enforced to write , That which may cause a tender heart to sighs , And sighing say , this was a woeful case , That man should be so much void of all grace . Two brothers were there that did doe the same , The first called Robert Reeve , the others name Was Richard Reeve , these did a horrid deed , As in my following verses shall proceed . Behold these lines , you that have any care , And from bloodshedding always do forbear ; Though murder be committed secretly , Yet for revenge to God it loud does cry . And that sin goes not long unpunished , Therefore let all men of this sin take heed : Many are daily for such crimes accused , And yet alas too commonly this used . One of these brother's was in debt I hear , Unto that man , which was his neighbour near , But he repaid him with a envious mind , As in the story you shall plainly find . Abraham Gearsie was his name , that was killed , By those two brother's , as the Devil wild : He on a day demanded money due , I pray give ear and mark what does ensue . They wish'd him to come home for to be paid , But for his life it seems they wait had laid : For one day it his chance for to come there , N [ oh ] tO dreading that his death had been so near . Now these two brother's killed him instantly , No neighbour was there that did hear him cry : And being dead floung him in a sawpit , And covered him with such as they could get . Now having hid this murder in that kind , Great search was made , but none this man could find His friends lamented for him very soar , And made inquiry all the country over . The second part , To the same tune . SIx weeks it was ere it was plainly known , And many were examin'd hereupon : But these two brother's much suspected were , And at the last the truth it did appear . Some murmured and said that they did owe Him money , and desired for to know Whither they had given him satisfaction , Who said , they had , and they did owe him none . About this money all did come to light , Now being put for to approve this right They could in no wise justify the same , When they to true examination came . Now they were asked for a quittans made , But they had none , then others present said , Where is your bound or witness of the same ? This must be prov'd , or you will suffer blame . They being taxed on this wise confessed , How they in bloody murder had transgress Then were they sent to Harford gail with speed , Where they did answer , for this wicked deed . This lenton sises last their fact was tri'd , Where they were cast , condemned and for it di'd , Robert was pressed to death because that he Would not be tried by God and the country . Richard was hanged by his own Father's door , Which did torment and grieve his friends full soar , Now he and's brother both do hang in chains , This is a just reward for murders gains . I would entreat all men for to beware , Eschew this crying sin and still forbear , Good Lord , me thinks it is a cruel thing , Of all sins else this may each conscience sting . This being done , what is he can forbear , With troubled conscience to shed many a tear ? 'Tis fearful sure for to be thought upon , Although that it be never so secret done . Our God is love , and he does charge us all , To love each other , but we often fallen From love and unity , to envious evil , Thus leave we God , and run unto the Devil . This may be warning for all other men , That do but hear of those vile brethren : And more consider 'tis a fearful sighed To see them hang'd , it would our hearts afrigh Yet some there are that will not frighted be At all , the warnings that they daily see : Too many do esteem such things as nought , Or else there would not be such murder wrought . Thus to conclude , pray lets to God for grace , And always have his fear before our face : Fly bloody murder , and such horrid sins , Then God will keep you from such shameful ends . FINIS . R.C. Printed at London for John Wright JUNIOR , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . A cruel murder committed lately upon the body of Abraham Gearsy , who liv'd in the Parish of Westmill , in the County of Harford ; by one Robert Reeve , and Richard Reeve , both of the same Parish : for which fact Robert was pressed to death , on Munday the 16. of March , and the Tuesday following Richard was hang'd ; and after both them were hang'd up in chains , where now they do remain , to the affright - ment of all beholders . 1635. To the tune of Fortune my Foe . I Pray give ear unto my tale of we , Which I'll declare that all may plainly know . Near Harford lately was a murder done , Oh it cruel one , as ever was known . The good with evil herein was repayed , Him that did good the evil hath betrayed , The world is lately grown to such a pass , That one may fear another in this case . This money is the cause of manies death , As it the cause that one late lost his breath , The devil and the money works together , As by my subject you may well consider . With tears of woe I am enforced to write , That which may cause a tender heart to sighs , And sighing say , this was a woeful case , That man should be so much void of all grace . Two brothers were there that did doe the same , The first called Robert Reeve , the others name Was Richard Reeve , these did a horrid deed , As in my following verses shall proceed . Behold these lines , you that have any care , And from bloodshedding always do forbear ; Though murder be committed secretly , Yet for revenge to God it loud does cry . And that sin goes not long unpunished , Therefore let all men of this sin take heed : Many are daily for such crimes accused , And yet alas too commonly this used . One of these brother's was in debt I hear , Unto that man , which was his neighbour near , But he repaid him with a envious mind , As in the story you shall plainly find . Abraham Gearsie was his name , that was killed , By those two brother's , as the Devil wild : He on a day demanded money due , I pray give ear and mark what does ensue . They wish'd him to come home for to be paid , But for his life it seems they wait had laid : For one day it his chance for to come there , N [ oh ] tO dreading that his death had been so near . Now these two brother's killed him instantly , No neighbour was there that did hear him cry : And being dead floung him in a sawpit , And covered him with such as they could get . Now having hid this murder in that kind , Great search was made , but none this man could find His friends lamented for him very soar , And made inquiry all the country over . The second part , To the same tune . SIx weeks it was ere it was plainly known , And many were examin'd hereupon : But these two brother's much suspected were , And at the last the truth it did appear . Some murmured and said that they did owe Him money , and desired for to know Whither they had given him satisfaction , Who said , they had , and they did owe him none . About this money all did come to light , Now being put for to approve this right They could in no wise justify the same , When they to true examination came . Now they were asked for a quittans made , But they had none , then others present said , Where is your bound or witness of the same ? This must be prov'd , or you will suffer blame . They being taxed on this wise confessed , How they in bloody murder had transgress Then were they sent to Harford gail with speed , Where they did answer , for this wicked deed . This lenton sises last their fact was tri'd , Where they were cast , condemned and for it di'd , Robert was pressed to death because that he Would not be tried by God and the country . Richard was hanged by his own Father's door , Which did torment and grieve his friends full soar , Now he and's brother both do hang in chains , This is a just reward for murders gains . I would entreat all men for to beware , Eschew this crying sin and still forbear , Good Lord , me thinks it is a cruel thing , Of all sins else this may each conscience sting . This being done , what is he can forbear , With troubled conscience to shed many a tear ? 'Tis fearful sure for to be thought upon , Although that it be never so secret done . Our God is love , and he does charge us all , To love each other , but we often fallen From love and unity , to envious evil , Thus leave we God , and run unto the Devil . This may be warning for all other men , That do but hear of those vile brethren : And more consider 'tis a fearful sighed To see them hang'd , it would our hearts afrigh Yet some there are that will not frighted be At all , the warnings that they daily see : Too many do esteem such things as nought , Or else there would not be such murder wrought . Thus to conclude , pray lets to God for grace , And always have his fear before our face : Fly bloody murder , and such horrid sins , Then God will keep you from such shameful ends . FINIS . R.C. Printed at London for John Wright JUNIOR , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . 