A GODLY BALLAD To the same Tune , ONe year begins , another ends , our time does pass and go , And this to our instruction tends , if we could take it so : The Summer's hight , the Winter's cold , whose season lets us see , When youth is gone , and we wax old , like flowers we fad and die . Men for the most part do rejoice , when sons are to them born ; Whose weeping eyes bewail their woes our sinfulness to scorn : They are the messengers of death , our time is passing fast ; Till at the hour of fading breath , then death us parts at last . Thus must we learn to spend our days in virtue as we ough In doing good make no delays , let sloth out of our though The slothful man yet ne're attain'd to honour , wealth nor fame ; But many have by virtue gain'd , a long long lasting name , In prime time of our youth we should , the seeds of learning sow , Weed forth our vices , if we could , and sinful lustest down throw : He that in time of youth takes pain , his virtue to bestow , In harvest of his age again , he grapes of grace shall mow , Since all things create have and end , nothing but fame remains : Happy is he can wisely spend his time in virtuous peins : For soon the time shall pass away , and pleasures shall abide , Oh happy happy thrice are they , who takes time at the tide . The tide of time does flow full fast , and quickly ebbs away : And if our ship lack sail or mast , our voyage must delay : Our bodies are the brittle bark , which sails the floods of fame ; But if through sloth we miss the mark , we sink in seas of shame . Occasion she hath hair before , but she is bald behind ; Lost time no travel can restore , as many fools do find : The little ants and honey bees , in Summer lay up store , For to provide for Winter storm , men ought to do much more . This have I done to please your will , now let me have my hire ; I have bewray'd my want of skill in doing your desire : The weakness of a woman's wit , is not through nature's fault , But lack of education fit , makes nature oft to halt . FINIS . A GODLY BALLAD To the same Tune , ONe year begins , another ends , our time does pass and go , And this to our instruction tends , if we could take it so : The Summer's hight , the Winter's cold , whose season lets us see , When youth is gone , and we wax old , like flowers we fad and die . Men for the most part do rejoice , when sons are to them born ; Whose weeping eyes bewail their woes our sinfulness to scorn : They are the messengers of death , our time is passing fast ; Till at the hour of fading breath , then death us parts at last . Thus must we learn to spend our days in virtue as we ough In doing good make no delays , let sloth out of our though The slothful man yet ne're attain'd to honour , wealth nor fame ; But many have by virtue gain'd , a long long lasting name , In prime time of our youth we should , the seeds of learning sow , Weed forth our vices , if we could , and sinful lustest down throw : He that in time of youth takes pain , his virtue to bestow , In harvest of his age again , he grapes of grace shall mow , Since all things create have and end , nothing but fame remains : Happy is he can wisely spend his time in virtuous peins : For soon the time shall pass away , and pleasures shall abide , Oh happy happy thrice are they , who takes time at the tide . The tide of time does flow full fast , and quickly ebbs away : And if our ship lack sail or mast , our voyage must delay : Our bodies are the brittle bark , which sails the floods of fame ; But if through sloth we miss the mark , we sink in seas of shame . Occasion she hath hair before , but she is bald behind ; Lost time no travel can restore , as many fools do find : The little ants and honey bees , in Summer lay up store , For to provide for Winter storm , men ought to do much more . This have I done to please your will , now let me have my hire ; I have bewray'd my want of skill in doing your desire : The weakness of a woman's wit , is not through nature's fault , But lack of education fit , makes nature oft to halt . FINIS . 