Of the faithful Friendship that lasted between two faithful Friends . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . IN stately Room sometime did dwell , a man of noble Fame . Who had a son of seemly shape , Alphonso was his name : When he was grown and come to age , his Father thought it best . To send his son to Athens fair , where wisdoms School did rest . And when he was at Athens come , good Lectors for to learn ? A place to board him with delight , his friends did well discern . A noble Knight of Athens Town , of him did take the charge , Who had a son Gancelo cal'd , just of his pitch and age . In stature and in person both , in favour , speech , and face : In quality and condition eke , they 'greed in every place . So like they were in all respects , the one unto the other ; They were not known but by their face , of Father nor of Mother . And as in favour they were found alike in all respects ; Even so they did most dearly love , as prov'd by good respect . Gancelo loved a Lady fair , which did in Athens dwell : Who was in beauty peerless found , so far she did excel . Upon a time it chanced so , as fancy did him move ; That he would visit for delight , his Lady and his love : And to his true and faithful friend , he did declare the same : Asking of him if he would see , that fair and comely Dame . Alphonso did thereto agree , and with Gancelo wen To see the Lady which he lov'd , which bred his discontent , But when he cast his crystal eyes , upon her angels hue : The beauty of that Lady bright , did straight his heart subdue , His gentle heart so wounded was , with that fair Ladies face , That afterwards he daily liv'd in sad and woeful case . And of his grief he knew not how thereof to make and end : For that he knew the Ladies love , was yielded to his friend . Thus being soar perplexed in mind , upon his bed he lay : Like one which death and deep despair had almost worn away His friend Ganselo that did see , his grief and great distress : At length requested for to know , his cause of heaviness , With much ado at length he told the truth unto his friend : Who did release his inward woe , with comfort to the end . Take courage then dear friend , quoth he , though she through love be mine : My right I will resign to thee , the Lady shall be thine . You know our favours are alike , our speech alike likewise : This day is mine apparel then you shall your self disguise . And unto Church then shall you go , directly in my stead ; So though my friends suppose 'tis I you shall the Lady wed . Alphonso was so well paid : and as they had decreed , He went a day , and wedded plain the Lady there in deed . But when the Nuptial feast was done , and Phoebus quite was fled , The Lady for Ganselo took Alphonso to her bed . That night they spent in pleasant sport , and when the day was come , A Post for fair Alphonso came , to fetch him home to Room . Then was the matter plainly prov'd , Alphonso wedded was , And not Ganselo to that Dame , which brought great woe alas . Alphonso being come to Room , with this his Lady gay ; Ganseloes friends and kindred all in such a rage did stay . That they depriv'd him of his wealth his lands and rich attire , And banished him their Country quite in rage and wrathful ire . With sad and pensive thoughts alas , Ganselo wandered then , Who was through Want constrain'd to beg , relief of many men . In this distress oft would he say , to Room I mean to go , To seek Alphonso my dear friend , who will relieve my woe . To Room when poor Ganselo came , and found Alphonsoes place , Which was so famous , huge and fair , himself in such poor case , He was asham'd to show himself in that his poor array , Saying , Alphonso knows me well , if he should come this way . Wherefore he stayed within the street , Alphonso then came by , But heeded not Ganselo poor , his friend that stood so nigh . Which griev'd Ganselo to the heart , quoth he , and is it so : Does proud Alphonso now disdain his friends in need to know ; In desperate sort away he went into a Barn hard by , And presently he drew his knife thinking thereby to die ; And bitterly in sorrow there he did lament and weep . And being over weigh'd with grief he there fell fast asleep . Where soundly there he sweetly slept came in a murdering thief , And with a naked knife , lay by this man so full of grief . This knife so bright he took up straight , and went away amain , And thrust it into a murdered man which he before had slave , And afterwards he went with speed and put this bloody knife Into his hand that sleeping lay , to save himself from strife ; Which done , in haste away he ran : and when that search was made Ganselo with his bloody knife was for the murder stayed ; And brought before the Magistrate , who did confess most plain , That he indeed with that same knife the murdered man had slave . Alphonso sitting there as Judge , and knowing Ganseloes face , To save his friend , did say himself was guilty in that case . None , quoth Alphonso , kill'd the man , my Lord , but only I : And therefore set this poor man free , and let me justly die . Then while for death these loving friends in striving did proceed , The man before the Senate came , which did the fact indeed ; Who being moved with remorse , their friendly hearts to see , Did prove before the judges plain , none did the fact but he . Thus when the truth was plainly told of all sides joy was seen : Alphonso did embrace his friend , which had so woeful been . In rich array he clothed him , as fitted his degree ; And helped him to his lands again , and former dignity . The murderer , for telling truth , had pardon at that time , Who afterwards lamented much , his foul and grievous crime , FINIS . Of the faithful Friendship that lasted between two faithful Friends . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . IN stately Room sometime did dwell , a man of noble Fame . Who had a son of seemly shape , Alphonso was his name : When he was grown and come to age , his Father thought it best . To send his son to Athens fair , where wisdoms School did rest . And when he was at Athens come , good Lectors for to learn ? A place to board him with delight , his friends did well discern . A noble Knight of Athens Town , of him did take the charge , Who had a son Gancelo cal'd , just of his pitch and age . In stature and in person both , in favour , speech , and face : In quality and condition eke , they 'greed in every place . So like they were in all respects , the one unto the other ; They were not known but by their face , of Father nor of Mother . And as in favour they were found alike in all respects ; Even so they did most dearly love , as prov'd by good respect . Gancelo loved a Lady fair , which did in Athens dwell : Who was in beauty peerless found , so far she did excel . Upon a time it chanced so , as fancy did him move ; That he would visit for delight , his Lady and his love : And to his true and faithful friend , he did declare the same : Asking of him if he would see , that fair and comely Dame . Alphonso did thereto agree , and with Gancelo wen To see the Lady which he lov'd , which bred his discontent , But when he cast his crystal eyes , upon her angels hue : The beauty of that Lady bright , did straight his heart subdue , His gentle heart so wounded was , with that fair Ladies face , That afterwards he daily liv'd in sad and woeful case . And of his grief he knew not how thereof to make and end : For that he knew the Ladies love , was yielded to his friend . Thus being soar perplexed in mind , upon his bed he lay : Like one which death and deep despair had almost worn away His friend Ganselo that did see , his grief and great distress : At length requested for to know , his cause of heaviness , With much ado at length he told the truth unto his friend : Who did release his inward woe , with comfort to the end . Take courage then dear friend , quoth he , though she through love be mine : My right I will resign to thee , the Lady shall be thine . You know our favours are alike , our speech alike likewise : This day is mine apparel then you shall your self disguise . And unto Church then shall you go , directly in my stead ; So though my friends suppose 'tis I you shall the Lady wed . Alphonso was so well paid : and as they had decreed , He went a day , and wedded plain the Lady there in deed . But when the Nuptial feast was done , and Phoebus quite was fled , The Lady for Ganselo took Alphonso to her bed . That night they spent in pleasant sport , and when the day was come , A Post for fair Alphonso came , to fetch him home to Room . Then was the matter plainly prov'd , Alphonso wedded was , And not Ganselo to that Dame , which brought great woe alas . Alphonso being come to Room , with this his Lady gay ; Ganseloes friends and kindred all in such a rage did stay . That they depriv'd him of his wealth his lands and rich attire , And banished him their Country quite in rage and wrathful ire . With sad and pensive thoughts alas , Ganselo wandered then , Who was through Want constrain'd to beg , relief of many men . In this distress oft would he say , to Room I mean to go , To seek Alphonso my dear friend , who will relieve my woe . To Room when poor Ganselo came , and found Alphonsoes place , Which was so famous , huge and fair , himself in such poor case , He was asham'd to show himself in that his poor array , Saying , Alphonso knows me well , if he should come this way . Wherefore he stayed within the street , Alphonso then came by , But heeded not Ganselo poor , his friend that stood so nigh . Which griev'd Ganselo to the heart , quoth he , and is it so : Does proud Alphonso now disdain his friends in need to know ; In desperate sort away he went into a Barn hard by , And presently he drew his knife thinking thereby to die ; And bitterly in sorrow there he did lament and weep . And being over weigh'd with grief he there fell fast asleep . Where soundly there he sweetly slept came in a murdering thief , And with a naked knife , lay by this man so full of grief . This knife so bright he took up straight , and went away amain , And thrust it into a murdered man which he before had slave , And afterwards he went with speed and put this bloody knife Into his hand that sleeping lay , to save himself from strife ; Which done , in haste away he ran : and when that search was made Ganselo with his bloody knife was for the murder stayed ; And brought before the Magistrate , who did confess most plain , That he indeed with that same knife the murdered man had slave . Alphonso sitting there as Judge , and knowing Ganseloes face , To save his friend , did say himself was guilty in that case . None , quoth Alphonso , kill'd the man , my Lord , but only I : And therefore set this poor man free , and let me justly die . Then while for death these loving friends in striving did proceed , The man before the Senate came , which did the fact indeed ; Who being moved with remorse , their friendly hearts to see , Did prove before the judges plain , none did the fact but he . Thus when the truth was plainly told of all sides joy was seen : Alphonso did embrace his friend , which had so woeful been . In rich array he clothed him , as fitted his degree ; And helped him to his lands again , and former dignity . The murderer , for telling truth , had pardon at that time , Who afterwards lamented much , his foul and grievous crime , FINIS . 