The Pensive Prisoners Apology . Directed to his fellow-Prisoners wheresoever , wherein he adviseth them to be steadfast in faith and hope , and patiently to endure their careful Imprison - meant , and to keep their Vows , showing the way to true Liberty . To the Tune of , Love with unconfined Wings . LOve with unconfined wings hovers about my gates , And my divine Althema begins to whisper at my grates , When I lie tangled in her hair being fettered in her eye , The birds that wanton in the Air knows no such liberty . When like contented Linits i with silver notes will sing : The very meekness of the heart , and glory of the thing , When I shall noise abroad and spread how good their virtues be , Fish that tipple in the deep . knows not such liberty . My lodging is on the cold boards , my clothes are thin and bore : False hearted friends with flattering words does seek me to ensnare , They counsel me to change my mind , and so my words deny : And I thereby shall surely find , a perfect liberty . Faith , hope and patience is my guide , my conscience pure and clear : So that the Lord be on my side , what foe need I to fear . I neither fear the stroke of death , nor tyrants villainy , So soon as Christ receives my breath I gain true liberty . A faithful vow I once did make , which now I will maintain : While I have tongue and breath to speak and life in me remain . Rather than from Religion turn in fiery flames to fry ; And if my corpse to ashes burn , my soul gains liberty , Patience makes plasters for my sores love lives without control They lock my body within the doors but cannot lock my soul . My muses to and from does run . above and beneath the Sky : The greatest Potentates under the Sun oft wants such liberty , Our keepers cruelty is great , to one and to us all , He bids us eat our flesh for meat , or stones thats in the wall . Yet though I am in prison cast , my senses mount on high , The wind that blows where it list knows no such liberty . 'Tis neither pardon from the Pope nor prayers made to Saints , That can enlarge my further scope , nor shorten my complaints , 'Tis Christ above , the Lord of love which for mankind did die : None but he can pardon me , nor work my liberty . Ther's many men hath treasure store yet are so worldly bent , Having too much they scrape for more yet never are content Whil'st I that am the poor'st of all from worldly care am free ; Which makes me think they live in thrall and I have liberty . The man that bears a wavering mind is subject to much woe , He that to anger is inclin'd , must sorrow undergo , But he that hath a patient heart , though he a prisoner be , Exceeds both nature , skill , and art , In point of liberty . You pensive prisoners every one , with hearts loyal and true , These lines of mine to work upon , I dedicate to you . Let faith and patience be your guide and you in time shall see , The powers of heaven will so provide you shall have liberty . Stone walls cannot a prison make , nor iron bars a cage . A spotless soul being innocent , calls that its hermitage . So I am blameless in my choice , and from these troubles free , Angels alone that are above , enjoys such liberty . FINIS . The Pensive Prisoners Apology . Directed to his fellow-Prisoners wheresoever , wherein he adviseth them to be steadfast in faith and hope , and patiently to endure their careful Imprison - meant , and to keep their Vows , showing the way to true Liberty . To the Tune of , Love with unconfined Wings . LOve with unconfined wings hovers about my gates , And my divine Althema begins to whisper at my grates , When I lie tangled in her hair being fettered in her eye , The birds that wanton in the Air knows no such liberty . When like contented Linits i with silver notes will sing : The very meekness of the heart , and glory of the thing , When I shall noise abroad and spread how good their virtues be , Fish that tipple in the deep . knows not such liberty . My lodging is on the cold boards , my clothes are thin and bore : False hearted friends with flattering words does seek me to ensnare , They counsel me to change my mind , and so my words deny : And I thereby shall surely find , a perfect liberty . Faith , hope and patience is my guide , my conscience pure and clear : So that the Lord be on my side , what foe need I to fear . I neither fear the stroke of death , nor tyrants villainy , So soon as Christ receives my breath I gain true liberty . A faithful vow I once did make , which now I will maintain : While I have tongue and breath to speak and life in me remain . Rather than from Religion turn in fiery flames to fry ; And if my corpse to ashes burn , my soul gains liberty , Patience makes plasters for my sores love lives without control They lock my body within the doors but cannot lock my soul . My muses to and from does run . above and beneath the Sky : The greatest Potentates under the Sun oft wants such liberty , Our keepers cruelty is great , to one and to us all , He bids us eat our flesh for meat , or stones thats in the wall . Yet though I am in prison cast , my senses mount on high , The wind that blows where it list knows no such liberty . 'Tis neither pardon from the Pope nor prayers made to Saints , That can enlarge my further scope , nor shorten my complaints , 'Tis Christ above , the Lord of love which for mankind did die : None but he can pardon me , nor work my liberty . Ther's many men hath treasure store yet are so worldly bent , Having too much they scrape for more yet never are content Whil'st I that am the poor'st of all from worldly care am free ; Which makes me think they live in thrall and I have liberty . The man that bears a wavering mind is subject to much woe , He that to anger is inclin'd , must sorrow undergo , But he that hath a patient heart , though he a prisoner be , Exceeds both nature , skill , and art , In point of liberty . You pensive prisoners every one , with hearts loyal and true , These lines of mine to work upon , I dedicate to you . Let faith and patience be your guide and you in time shall see , The powers of heaven will so provide you shall have liberty . Stone walls cannot a prison make , nor iron bars a cage . A spotless soul being innocent , calls that its hermitage . So I am blameless in my choice , and from these troubles free , Angels alone that are above , enjoys such liberty . FINIS . 