The confession of a penitent Sinner . To the tune of , Oh man in desperation : or , Some men for sudden joys do weep . OF Adams seed , poor sinner I , come creeping to bewail My since secure , my wonted crime , no moment will I fail . Of sinful Saul , oh Lord I pray , that I a Paul may be , And not a filthy Sodomite , but one of Ninivy . And make me with the Publican , my self low to submi And thou , oh sweet Samaritan , come help me wondrous sick . I am that Son , that unthrift child , that played the roisting gues But call me home , good Father deer , I humbly thee request . Array me new , fetch in the Calf , I will no more be los And let thy friends rejoice hereat , and spare , I pray , no cos I went not to thy Vineyard , I , albeit I said , I would , But though I come but very late , my hire do not withhold . Take here to thee a sacrifice , a contrite spirit of mine : Which better is than blood of Bulls , else Goats , fat Rams , or Kine . Thou art my God , and I confess my self thy creature poor , I fearful Peter , thou true Christ , one God for evermore . In sin was I begotten and born , in sin I had my suck , In sin I ran my youthful raze , in sin I was brought up . What world would wish to have , and what the flesh desired : All that I sought to amplify , thus falsely I conspired . I am that barren sterrill field , where envious man did sow Destroying darnel , tear , and weed , because I might not grow . That stately Steward eke I am , that oft my fellows beatrice , Thou art that Lord , that once to me , forgavest me the deb But I thy kindness quite forgotten , and would not show the like , But he that ought me but a small , I handled with great spigh In brother's eye a mote I spied , but let the beam alone , ( And at a straw I stumbled thus ) that long was in mine own . I see but still to sinful life , I run from worse to worse , And play the youngman very loath my substance to disburse : That flinty Pharaoh have I been , that plagues did never dread , I might full soon have drowned been but for thy better speed . The second part , To the same tune . A Pilgrim poor amid the land , that could not be content , But to endure the golden Calf , full oft did I consen In fleshly froward fuming fume , full many a time I said In Egypt Land great store we had , both victuals , flesh , and bred . The Hypocrite I played likewise , and would not stand in awe , I came to ask which Precept was the greatest in the Law . I fed like greedy glutton fat , and did the beggar hate , I had such business , let I was to come to marriage gate . What shall I say , since thou dost know my sins in number all ? To stand in judgement can I not , except thou rid my thrall . Forgive , forget , put out of mind , good Lord , my great offence , And heal my soul with price of blood my ample indulgence , Shall I despair , or dread more doubts ? my sin is not so great , But mercies of my Saviour Christ , surmount them many a step . And by his promise hold I take , knock you , and I will open , Seek , call , come all that laden be , the mouth of God hath spoken . I will be ready , hear , and help , your sins as scarlet read , As white as snow , shall purged be , in Esay this is said . Examples eke of mercies more the text at large does tell , Discoursing of the sinful Wife , who long lived as rebel . Both Marry Magdalen and more , had pardon grant of thee , Yea even the Thief , by his belief , does live eternally . Why should not I , poor sinner then , be bold to sue for grace , When this I see abundantly , thy goodness will embrace . All such as will repent with tears , and turn with whole intent , And quite refuse their sinful ways , and earnestly relent . Turn , turn , oh Lord , turn then to me my heart I rend and tear , In death , in life , I am thine own , for me thou paidst full deer . Laud , praise , and thanks , with mind & heart , to thee , my God , I give , Direct my ways , at end of days , in glory let me live . That blessed Ghost may mount to sky when worms the body eat , Lord hear my suit , & grant me grace I humbly thee entreat . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . The confession of a penitent Sinner . To the tune of , Oh man in desperation : or , Some men for sudden joys do weep . OF Adams seed , poor sinner I , come creeping to bewail My since secure , my wonted crime , no moment will I fail . Of sinful Saul , oh Lord I pray , that I a Paul may be , And not a filthy Sodomite , but one of Ninivy . And make me with the Publican , my self low to submi And thou , oh sweet Samaritan , come help me wondrous sick . I am that Son , that unthrift child , that played the roisting gues But call me home , good Father deer , I humbly thee request . Array me new , fetch in the Calf , I will no more be los And let thy friends rejoice hereat , and spare , I pray , no cos I went not to thy Vineyard , I , albeit I said , I would , But though I come but very late , my hire do not withhold . Take here to thee a sacrifice , a contrite spirit of mine : Which better is than blood of Bulls , else Goats , fat Rams , or Kine . Thou art my God , and I confess my self thy creature poor , I fearful Peter , thou true Christ , one God for evermore . In sin was I begotten and born , in sin I had my suck , In sin I ran my youthful raze , in sin I was brought up . What world would wish to have , and what the flesh desired : All that I sought to amplify , thus falsely I conspired . I am that barren sterrill field , where envious man did sow Destroying darnel , tear , and weed , because I might not grow . That stately Steward eke I am , that oft my fellows beatrice , Thou art that Lord , that once to me , forgavest me the deb But I thy kindness quite forgotten , and would not show the like , But he that ought me but a small , I handled with great spigh In brother's eye a mote I spied , but let the beam alone , ( And at a straw I stumbled thus ) that long was in mine own . I see but still to sinful life , I run from worse to worse , And play the youngman very loath my substance to disburse : That flinty Pharaoh have I been , that plagues did never dread , I might full soon have drowned been but for thy better speed . The second part , To the same tune . A Pilgrim poor amid the land , that could not be content , But to endure the golden Calf , full oft did I consen In fleshly froward fuming fume , full many a time I said In Egypt Land great store we had , both victuals , flesh , and bred . The Hypocrite I played likewise , and would not stand in awe , I came to ask which Precept was the greatest in the Law . I fed like greedy glutton fat , and did the beggar hate , I had such business , let I was to come to marriage gate . What shall I say , since thou dost know my sins in number all ? To stand in judgement can I not , except thou rid my thrall . Forgive , forget , put out of mind , good Lord , my great offence , And heal my soul with price of blood my ample indulgence , Shall I despair , or dread more doubts ? my sin is not so great , But mercies of my Saviour Christ , surmount them many a step . And by his promise hold I take , knock you , and I will open , Seek , call , come all that laden be , the mouth of God hath spoken . I will be ready , hear , and help , your sins as scarlet read , As white as snow , shall purged be , in Esay this is said . Examples eke of mercies more the text at large does tell , Discoursing of the sinful Wife , who long lived as rebel . Both Marry Magdalen and more , had pardon grant of thee , Yea even the Thief , by his belief , does live eternally . Why should not I , poor sinner then , be bold to sue for grace , When this I see abundantly , thy goodness will embrace . All such as will repent with tears , and turn with whole intent , And quite refuse their sinful ways , and earnestly relent . Turn , turn , oh Lord , turn then to me my heart I rend and tear , In death , in life , I am thine own , for me thou paidst full deer . Laud , praise , and thanks , with mind & heart , to thee , my God , I give , Direct my ways , at end of days , in glory let me live . That blessed Ghost may mount to sky when worms the body eat , Lord hear my suit , & grant me grace I humbly thee entreat . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . 