A Warning for Married Women , Being and Example of Mrs. Jane Reynolds ( a west-country-Woman ) born near Pilmouth who having plighted her troth to a Seaman , was afterwards married to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spirit , the manner how shall presently be recited , To a west-country Tune called , The fair Maid of Bristol : Bateman , or , John True . THere dwelled a fair Maid in the West , of worthy Birth and Fame , Near unto Pilmouth stately Town Jane Reynolds was her name . This Damsel dearly was belov'd , by many a proper youth : And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth : Among the rest a Seaman brave , unto her a wooing came . A comely proper youth he was , James Harais call'd by Name . The Maid and Youngman was agreed as time did them allow , And to each other secretly , they made a solemn vow . That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life , He was to be her Husband kind , and she his faithful Wife . A day appointed was also , when they were to be married , But before these things were brought to pass matters were strangely carried . All you that faithful Lovers be , give ear and harken well , And what of them became at last , I will directly tell . The Young man he was pressed to Sea , and forced was to go , His sweetheart she must stay behind whither she would or no . And after he was from her gone . she three years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home - and kept her self a Maid . At last news came that he was dead , within a Foreign Land. And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the maiden she , lamented many a day ; And never was she known at all , the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that liv'd hard by , when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a wooing came . But when that he had gain'd her love , they married were with speed , And four years space ( being man & wife ) they lovingly agreed . Three pretty Children in this time , this lovely couple had , Which made their Father's heart rejoice and Mother wondrous glad . But as occasion serv'd one time , the good man took his way , Some three days journey from his home intending not to stay . But while that he was gone away , a spirit in the night , Came to the window of his Wife , and did her sorely fright - Which Spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say , My dear and only love ( quoth he ) prepare and come away . James Harais is my name ( quoth he ) whom thou didst low so , dear , And I have travel'd for thy sake , at least this seven year . And now I am return'd again , to take thee to my wife , And thou with me shalt go to Sea , to end all further strife . O tempt me not sweet James ( quoth she ) with thee away to go . If I should leave my children small , alas what would they do . My Husband is a Carpenter , a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds , that he should know the same . I might have had a Kings Daughter , and she would have married me , But I forsook her Golden Crown . even for the love of thee . Therefore if thou'l thy husband forsake , and thy children three also I will forgive thee what is past , if thou wilt with me go . If I forsake my husband , and my little Children three , What means hast thou to bring me to , if I should go with thee . I have seven Ships upon the Sea , when they are come to Land. Both Mariners and Merchandise , shall be at thy command . The Ship wherein my love shall sail , is glorious to behold , The sails shall be of finest silk , and the mast of shining gold . When he had told her these fair tal [ e ] s to love him she began , Because he was in humane shape , much like unto a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the Womankind , was never seen no more : But when her Husband he came home . and found his Wife was gone , And left her three sweet pretty babes , within the house alone . He beatrice his breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case , he Hang'd himself for Woe , Upon a tree , near to the place : the truth of all is so . The children now are fatherless , and left without a guide . But yet no doubt the heavenly powers , will for them well provide . FINIS . A Warning for Married Women , Being and Example of Mrs. Jane Reynolds ( a west-country-Woman ) born near Pilmouth who having plighted her troth to a Seaman , was afterwards married to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spirit , the manner how shall presently be recited , To a west-country Tune called , The fair Maid of Bristol : Bateman , or , John True . THere dwelled a fair Maid in the West , of worthy Birth and Fame , Near unto Pilmouth stately Town Jane Reynolds was her name . This Damsel dearly was belov'd , by many a proper youth : And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth : Among the rest a Seaman brave , unto her a wooing came . A comely proper youth he was , James Harais call'd by Name . The Maid and Youngman was agreed as time did them allow , And to each other secretly , they made a solemn vow . That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life , He was to be her Husband kind , and she his faithful Wife . A day appointed was also , when they were to be married , But before these things were brought to pass matters were strangely carried . All you that faithful Lovers be , give ear and harken well , And what of them became at last , I will directly tell . The Young man he was pressed to Sea , and forced was to go , His sweetheart she must stay behind whither she would or no . And after he was from her gone . she three years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home - and kept her self a Maid . At last news came that he was dead , within a Foreign Land. And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the maiden she , lamented many a day ; And never was she known at all , the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that liv'd hard by , when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a wooing came . But when that he had gain'd her love , they married were with speed , And four years space ( being man & wife ) they lovingly agreed . Three pretty Children in this time , this lovely couple had , Which made their Father's heart rejoice and Mother wondrous glad . But as occasion serv'd one time , the good man took his way , Some three days journey from his home intending not to stay . But while that he was gone away , a spirit in the night , Came to the window of his Wife , and did her sorely fright - Which Spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say , My dear and only love ( quoth he ) prepare and come away . James Harais is my name ( quoth he ) whom thou didst low so , dear , And I have travel'd for thy sake , at least this seven year . And now I am return'd again , to take thee to my wife , And thou with me shalt go to Sea , to end all further strife . O tempt me not sweet James ( quoth she ) with thee away to go . If I should leave my children small , alas what would they do . My Husband is a Carpenter , a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds , that he should know the same . I might have had a Kings Daughter , and she would have married me , But I forsook her Golden Crown . even for the love of thee . Therefore if thou'l thy husband forsake , and thy children three also I will forgive thee what is past , if thou wilt with me go . If I forsake my husband , and my little Children three , What means hast thou to bring me to , if I should go with thee . I have seven Ships upon the Sea , when they are come to Land. Both Mariners and Merchandise , shall be at thy command . The Ship wherein my love shall sail , is glorious to behold , The sails shall be of finest silk , and the mast of shining gold . When he had told her these fair tal [ e ] s to love him she began , Because he was in humane shape , much like unto a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the Womankind , was never seen no more : But when her Husband he came home . and found his Wife was gone , And left her three sweet pretty babes , within the house alone . He beatrice his breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case , he Hang'd himself for Woe , Upon a tree , near to the place : the truth of all is so . The children now are fatherless , and left without a guide . But yet no doubt the heavenly powers , will for them well provide . FINIS . 