( 1 ) A Christians nightly Care . WHen thou hast spent the longsome day , in pleasure and delight , And after toil , and weary way , doee seek thy rest at night , Into thy pain and pleasure past , eke this in labour you Ere sleep close up thine eyes too fast , do not thy God forget . But search within thy secret thoughts , what deeds did thee befall : And if thou find a miss in ought , to God for mercy call , But if thou find nothing amiss , that thou canst call to mind : Yet evermore remember this , there is the more behind : And look how well soever it be , that thou hast spent this day : It came of God , and not of [ tO ] he , so to direct thy way . Thus if thou try thy daily deeds , and pleasure in this pain : Thy life shall cleanse thy corn from weeds and thine shall be the gain . But if thy sleepy sinful eye , will venture for to wink , Before thy wilful will may try , how far thy soul may sink : Beware and walk , or else thy bed which soft and smooth is made : Shall heap more evil upon thy head , then stroke of enemies blade . But if thy pain procure thine ease , in bed as thou dost lie , I'm sure it will not God displease , to sing this soberly . I see that sleep is lent me here , to ease my weary bones , As death at length will once appear , to ease my grievous groans . My daily sports with belly fed , would cause my sleepy eye , To sleep so found in quiet bed , whereby my soul might die : The stretching arms , the ganting breath , that in my bed I use : Are portraits of the pangs of death , when life shall me refuse : And as my bed each sundry part , in shadows does resemble : Then sundry shapes of death , whose dart will make my heart to tremble : My bed it self is like the grave , my sheets , the winding she My clothes , the moulds which I must have to cover me most meet . The hungry flaes , that lowp most fresh to worms I can compare , Which greedily will eat my flesh , and leave my bones right bore : The waking Cock that airily crows , to put the night away , Puts me in mind the Trump that blows before the latter day . Then as I rise up lustily , when sluggish sleep is past , So hope I to rise joyfully , to judgement at the last . Thus will I wake , thus will I sleep , thus will I hope to rise . Thus will I neither wail nor weep , but sing in holy guise . My bones shall in this bed remain , my soul in God shall trus By whom I hope to rise again from death and earthly dust , All laud and praise be to the Lord , and also to his Son And likewise to the holy Ghost . and so my song is done . ( 1 ) A Christians nightly Care . WHen thou hast spent the longsome day , in pleasure and delight , And after toil , and weary way , doee seek thy rest at night , Into thy pain and pleasure past , eke this in labour you Ere sleep close up thine eyes too fast , do not thy God forget . But search within thy secret thoughts , what deeds did thee befall : And if thou find a miss in ought , to God for mercy call , But if thou find nothing amiss , that thou canst call to mind : Yet evermore remember this , there is the more behind : And look how well soever it be , that thou hast spent this day : It came of God , and not of [ tO ] he , so to direct thy way . Thus if thou try thy daily deeds , and pleasure in this pain : Thy life shall cleanse thy corn from weeds and thine shall be the gain . But if thy sleepy sinful eye , will venture for to wink , Before thy wilful will may try , how far thy soul may sink : Beware and walk , or else thy bed which soft and smooth is made : Shall heap more evil upon thy head , then stroke of enemies blade . But if thy pain procure thine ease , in bed as thou dost lie , I'm sure it will not God displease , to sing this soberly . I see that sleep is lent me here , to ease my weary bones , As death at length will once appear , to ease my grievous groans . My daily sports with belly fed , would cause my sleepy eye , To sleep so found in quiet bed , whereby my soul might die : The stretching arms , the ganting breath , that in my bed I use : Are portraits of the pangs of death , when life shall me refuse : And as my bed each sundry part , in shadows does resemble : Then sundry shapes of death , whose dart will make my heart to tremble : My bed it self is like the grave , my sheets , the winding she My clothes , the moulds which I must have to cover me most meet . The hungry flaes , that lowp most fresh to worms I can compare , Which greedily will eat my flesh , and leave my bones right bore : The waking Cock that airily crows , to put the night away , Puts me in mind the Trump that blows before the latter day . Then as I rise up lustily , when sluggish sleep is past , So hope I to rise joyfully , to judgement at the last . Thus will I wake , thus will I sleep , thus will I hope to rise . Thus will I neither wail nor weep , but sing in holy guise . My bones shall in this bed remain , my soul in God shall trus By whom I hope to rise again from death and earthly dust , All laud and praise be to the Lord , and also to his Son And likewise to the holy Ghost . and so my song is done . 