A brief description of the triumphant show made by the Right Honourable Aulgernon Percie , Earl of Northumberland , At his Installation and Initiation into the Princely Fraternity of the Garter , upon the 13. of May , 1635. To the tune of Quell the pride , etc YOu noble Buds of Britaine , that spring from Honours Tree , Who love to hear of high designs , attend a while to me , And I'll ( in brief ) discover what Fame bids me take in hand , to blaze the praise Of great Northumberland . The Order of the Garter , ere since third Edwards Raign'd , Unto the Realm of England hath a matchless Honour gained : The World hath no Society like to this Princely band , to raise the praise Of great Northumberland . The honour of his Pedigree does claim a high regard , And many of his Ancestors , for Fame thought nothing hard , And he through noble qualities , which are exactly scanned , does raise the praise Of great Northumberland . Against the day appointed , his Lordship did prepare , To publish his Magnificence , no charges he did spare , The like within men memory , was never taken in hand , to raise the praise Of Great Northumberland . Upon that day it seemed , all Britany did strive , And did their best to honour him , with all they could contrive , For all our high Nobility joyn'd in a mutual band , to blaze , the praise , Of great Northumberland . The Common eyes were dazzled , With wonder to behold , The lustre of apparel rich , all Silver Pearl and Gold Which on brave Coursers mounted , did glister through the Strand . to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . But ere that I proceeded , this progress to report I should have mentioned the feast , made at Salisbury Court , Almost five hundred dishes , did on a table stand . to raise the praise , Of great Northumberland . The second part to the same tune . THe mightiest Prince or Monarch , that in the world does reign , At such a sumptuous banquet might , have din'd without disdain . Where Sack like Conduit water was free even at command . to blaze the praise Of great Northumberland . The famous Fleet-street Conduit , renown'd so long ago . Did not neglect to express what love , she to my Lord did owe For like and old proud woman she painted fair does stand . to blaze , the praise , Of great Northumberland . A number of brave Gallants , some Knights and some Esquires , Attended at this triumph great , clad in complete attires . The Silver half moon gloriously , upon their sleeves did stand , to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . All these on stately Horses , that ill indur'd the bit , Wear mounted in magniffique sort , as to the time was fit . Their feathers white and read did show , like to a martial band , to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . The noble Earls and Vizcounts , and Barons road in state , This great and high solemnity , all did Congratulate , To honour brave Earl Pearcy , each put a helping hand , to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . King Charles our Royal sovereign and his renowned Mary , With ( Britaines hope ) their progeny . all lovingly did tarry . At noble Vizcount Wimbletons , 'ith fairest part 'oth Strand , to blaze , etc To famous Winsor-Castle , with all his gallant train , Earl Pearcy went that afternoon , his honour to obtain . And there he was installed , One of Saint Georges band , to blaze , etc Long may he live in honour , in plenty and in peace , For him and all his noble friends , to pray I'll never cease , This ditty ( which I now will end ) was only taken in hand . to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Francis Coules and are to be should at his shop in the Old-Bayley . A brief description of the triumphant show made by the Right Honourable Aulgernon Percie , Earl of Northumberland , At his Installation and Initiation into the Princely Fraternity of the Garter , upon the 13. of May , 1635. To the tune of Quell the pride , etc YOu noble Buds of Britaine , that spring from Honours Tree , Who love to hear of high designs , attend a while to me , And I'll ( in brief ) discover what Fame bids me take in hand , to blaze the praise Of great Northumberland . The Order of the Garter , ere since third Edwards Raign'd , Unto the Realm of England hath a matchless Honour gained : The World hath no Society like to this Princely band , to raise the praise Of great Northumberland . The honour of his Pedigree does claim a high regard , And many of his Ancestors , for Fame thought nothing hard , And he through noble qualities , which are exactly scanned , does raise the praise Of great Northumberland . Against the day appointed , his Lordship did prepare , To publish his Magnificence , no charges he did spare , The like within men memory , was never taken in hand , to raise the praise Of Great Northumberland . Upon that day it seemed , all Britany did strive , And did their best to honour him , with all they could contrive , For all our high Nobility joyn'd in a mutual band , to blaze , the praise , Of great Northumberland . The Common eyes were dazzled , With wonder to behold , The lustre of apparel rich , all Silver Pearl and Gold Which on brave Coursers mounted , did glister through the Strand . to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . But ere that I proceeded , this progress to report I should have mentioned the feast , made at Salisbury Court , Almost five hundred dishes , did on a table stand . to raise the praise , Of great Northumberland . The second part to the same tune . THe mightiest Prince or Monarch , that in the world does reign , At such a sumptuous banquet might , have din'd without disdain . Where Sack like Conduit water was free even at command . to blaze the praise Of great Northumberland . The famous Fleet-street Conduit , renown'd so long ago . Did not neglect to express what love , she to my Lord did owe For like and old proud woman she painted fair does stand . to blaze , the praise , Of great Northumberland . A number of brave Gallants , some Knights and some Esquires , Attended at this triumph great , clad in complete attires . The Silver half moon gloriously , upon their sleeves did stand , to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . All these on stately Horses , that ill indur'd the bit , Wear mounted in magniffique sort , as to the time was fit . Their feathers white and read did show , like to a martial band , to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . The noble Earls and Vizcounts , and Barons road in state , This great and high solemnity , all did Congratulate , To honour brave Earl Pearcy , each put a helping hand , to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . King Charles our Royal sovereign and his renowned Mary , With ( Britaines hope ) their progeny . all lovingly did tarry . At noble Vizcount Wimbletons , 'ith fairest part 'oth Strand , to blaze , etc To famous Winsor-Castle , with all his gallant train , Earl Pearcy went that afternoon , his honour to obtain . And there he was installed , One of Saint Georges band , to blaze , etc Long may he live in honour , in plenty and in peace , For him and all his noble friends , to pray I'll never cease , This ditty ( which I now will end ) was only taken in hand . to blaze the praise , Of great Northumberland . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Francis Coules and are to be should at his shop in the Old-Bayley . 