A pleasant new Ditty : entitled , Though rich golden Booties your luck was to catch , Your last was the best , 'cause you met with your match . To the tune of , I know what I know . A Rich wealthy Bachelor thirty and odd , Had now a new crotchet crept into his pate : A wife he must have , whatsoever betide , And well linde with Rubbish to enrich his state . Fair Maidens were offer'd him , two , three , and foure , Sufficient Men's Daughters , with money to boot , Yet his greedy mind did still gape after more , For he said 'twas too little for him to go to'te . His means did afford him three hundred a year , And three bonny Lasses had thousands apiece , Yet for it and them he a pin did not care , Though one of them was to a Gentleman Niece . Shall I for a paltry poor thousand pound , A young wench go marry with nothing but breed , Consume me in longings , in fashions , and toys , No , yet it is time , and I now will take heed . There is a brisk Widow that dwells hard by , In money hath ten thousand pounds at the least , I'll spruce my self up then incontinently , And to her I'll go as a shutering Gest. This Bachelor soon did attain his desire , The day was appointed when they should be wed , His youthful fair Bride was but threescore and ten , For she had but a tooth and a half in her head . Some three or foure years did this bonny Lass live , Then grim goodman death took her life clean away , And grief for her loss had the man almost sped , But that a new Widow his journey did stay . His wife being buried , next morning he went , Another spruce Widow again for to see , Where mounted on Crutches he straight one espied , Who in state of riches was better than she . His Mother's smock sure did this Widower wear , For no sooner wood but he presently sped , A Licence he fetched , and he marri'd her straight , Then she threw down her Stilts , & she hobbl'd to bed . Not full ten years older then was his last wife , Was this same dread mummey that lay by his side , With snorting and grunting she air'd so the Bed , That never had Groom such a night by a Bride . But still did her money perfume all again , And in a month after she bedrid did lie . Seven Winter's and Summer's she lay at small ease , And then she departed because she must die . Five hundred a year she augmented his state ; Ten thousand pound clear by the other he god , Mean time of another spruce Widow he herd , Then he prayed unto Jove that she might be his lot . The second part , To the same tune . THis Widow seem'd not above fifty at most , So spruce and so neat was her Carcase bedrest , She wanted no means for to set her to sale , They lik't and were marri'd , now mark well the rest . She seem'd so complete and so comely of shape , That he doted on her more than both the rest . She said then sweet husband , be not you dismayed , For the truth must be known when you see me undrest . Two rows of white teeth she took out of her mouth , And put 'em straight into a little round Box , A Glass eye likewise she pull'd out of her head , Which made the man fear that his wife had god knocks Her powdered curled Locks that so fair did appear , Came off with more ease than a new scalded Pig , I wonder her Husband could laughing forbear , When he saw his wife look like and Ostrich egg . Then strait way down stooped this comely sweet Bride , Unlac't , and ungirded , her neat wooden leg , The Bridegroom was like to run out of his wits , For his eyes ne'r before did behold such a Hag . Then for to revive him , unto him she flung , Her Keys that did led him to treasure great store , This made him to love her , so both went to bed , Where he did embrace her , what would you have more . Such luck had this husband to tumble them o're , That e're one month ended she changed her life . A rich wealthy miser invited him home , And said , if you please Sir , I'll show you a wife . He show'd him his Daughter a Girl of fifteene , But she would not liking nor favour him show , Her friends made the match , & they marri'd with speed , But she ne'r endur'd him , I tell you but so . This young marri'd wife to such cunning was grown , That she fell a longing his quine for to waste : French Kickshaws of ten pound a dish she would have , With other deer meats for to fit her fine taste . No Physic , no Doctors , no cost did she spare , On pride and new fangles she set her delight , Her Husband began for to savour of fear , And to wish that she ne'r had been seen in his sighed . No love nor no liking this young wife e're had , Because she was forc't to be wed to her hate , He sickened and died , and was laid in his grave , So she did enjoy his three Widow's estate . A young man that first was this Maidens true love , With all expedition they made their dispatch , For wedding and bedding they both were agreed , And the three widows husband did meet with his match . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . A pleasant new Ditty : entitled , Though rich golden Booties your luck was to catch , Your last was the best , 'cause you met with your match . To the tune of , I know what I know . A Rich wealthy Bachelor thirty and odd , Had now a new crotchet crept into his pate : A wife he must have , whatsoever betide , And well linde with Rubbish to enrich his state . Fair Maidens were offer'd him , two , three , and foure , Sufficient Men's Daughters , with money to boot , Yet his greedy mind did still gape after more , For he said 'twas too little for him to go to'te . His means did afford him three hundred a year , And three bonny Lasses had thousands apiece , Yet for it and them he a pin did not care , Though one of them was to a Gentleman Niece . Shall I for a paltry poor thousand pound , A young wench go marry with nothing but breed , Consume me in longings , in fashions , and toys , No , yet it is time , and I now will take heed . There is a brisk Widow that dwells hard by , In money hath ten thousand pounds at the least , I'll spruce my self up then incontinently , And to her I'll go as a shutering Gest. This Bachelor soon did attain his desire , The day was appointed when they should be wed , His youthful fair Bride was but threescore and ten , For she had but a tooth and a half in her head . Some three or foure years did this bonny Lass live , Then grim goodman death took her life clean away , And grief for her loss had the man almost sped , But that a new Widow his journey did stay . His wife being buried , next morning he went , Another spruce Widow again for to see , Where mounted on Crutches he straight one espied , Who in state of riches was better than she . His Mother's smock sure did this Widower wear , For no sooner wood but he presently sped , A Licence he fetched , and he marri'd her straight , Then she threw down her Stilts , & she hobbl'd to bed . Not full ten years older then was his last wife , Was this same dread mummey that lay by his side , With snorting and grunting she air'd so the Bed , That never had Groom such a night by a Bride . But still did her money perfume all again , And in a month after she bedrid did lie . Seven Winter's and Summer's she lay at small ease , And then she departed because she must die . Five hundred a year she augmented his state ; Ten thousand pound clear by the other he god , Mean time of another spruce Widow he herd , Then he prayed unto Jove that she might be his lot . The second part , To the same tune . THis Widow seem'd not above fifty at most , So spruce and so neat was her Carcase bedrest , She wanted no means for to set her to sale , They lik't and were marri'd , now mark well the rest . She seem'd so complete and so comely of shape , That he doted on her more than both the rest . She said then sweet husband , be not you dismayed , For the truth must be known when you see me undrest . Two rows of white teeth she took out of her mouth , And put 'em straight into a little round Box , A Glass eye likewise she pull'd out of her head , Which made the man fear that his wife had god knocks Her powdered curled Locks that so fair did appear , Came off with more ease than a new scalded Pig , I wonder her Husband could laughing forbear , When he saw his wife look like and Ostrich egg . Then strait way down stooped this comely sweet Bride , Unlac't , and ungirded , her neat wooden leg , The Bridegroom was like to run out of his wits , For his eyes ne'r before did behold such a Hag . Then for to revive him , unto him she flung , Her Keys that did led him to treasure great store , This made him to love her , so both went to bed , Where he did embrace her , what would you have more . Such luck had this husband to tumble them o're , That e're one month ended she changed her life . A rich wealthy miser invited him home , And said , if you please Sir , I'll show you a wife . He show'd him his Daughter a Girl of fifteene , But she would not liking nor favour him show , Her friends made the match , & they marri'd with speed , But she ne'r endur'd him , I tell you but so . This young marri'd wife to such cunning was grown , That she fell a longing his quine for to waste : French Kickshaws of ten pound a dish she would have , With other deer meats for to fit her fine taste . No Physic , no Doctors , no cost did she spare , On pride and new fangles she set her delight , Her Husband began for to savour of fear , And to wish that she ne'r had been seen in his sighed . No love nor no liking this young wife e're had , Because she was forc't to be wed to her hate , He sickened and died , and was laid in his grave , So she did enjoy his three Widow's estate . A young man that first was this Maidens true love , With all expedition they made their dispatch , For wedding and bedding they both were agreed , And the three widows husband did meet with his match . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . 