Hold your hands honest Men , FOR Here's a good wife hath a Husband that likes her , In every respect , but only he strikes her , Then if you desire to be held men complete , What ever you do your wives do not beatrice . To the tune of , Keep a good tongue etc I Have as complete a man , as any poor woman can , He makes my heart to leap , His company to keep , it comforts me now and than : There's few exercises , That man enterprises , but he well understands , Yet like a dart , He wounds my heart , I for my part , Must bear the smart For he cannot rule his hands . His body is straight and tall , proportioned well withal , You may admire at him , To see how every limb , does in a due order stand : In every respect , Hee's void of defect , his legs are straight as wands , His back is strong , His arms are long , Hee's fresh and young , There's nothing wrong , If he could but rule his hands . He hath a grave aspect , his forehead hee'l seldom deject His eyes clear and bright , Like stars do give a light , not squinting but just direct , His haire's very big , Like a Perywig , in comely sort it stands , So curiously , It passes my Capacity To specify O that he could rule his hands . For his activity all love his company Hee's nimble and quick , Performing many a trick , which other men dare not try . To vault over a table , Few men are so able , his joints he so well commands None in this town Can put him down , His great renown should be my crown If that he could rule his hands . Hee'l bravely pitch the Bar , I near knew none so far , For throwing the stone Hee's equal'd by none , which many times breeds a jar But if they will quarrel , This at their own peril , for he on his credit stands , The proudest he What ere he be , He makes him flee , But woe is me , he cannot rule his hands . The second part , To the same tune . HEe'l wrestle with the best that's either for north or west When he comes i'th field The stoutest will yield , for he exceeds all the res For leaping and running , His wonderful cunning , is spread through diverse lands , Hee'l dance , hee'l sing , With art hee'l ring , Yet for nothing Hee'l throw and fling , and cannot rule his hands . Hee's learn'd in many arts , he travel'd in many parts , His pleasant discourse Makes many perforce , to yield to him their hearts , He is no way vicious , Hee's very judicious , and many things understands , I dare to tell He loves me well , If drink him quel Hee's fierce and fell , and cannot rule his hands . For Martial discipline , whose Husband passes mine I'm proud in good troth , To see how he does like Mars in his armour shine , He tosses a Pike , You never saw the like , he learn'd it i'th Netherlands For Musket shot , His equall's not , Alas God wot , Hee's too too hight , and cannot rule his hands . Hee'l draw the long bow as well as ever did Adam Bell , There's no man of strength , Exceeds him in length , as all that know him can tell . I speak without lying , Hee'l hit a bird flying , and shoot through hazel wands But few men dare With him compare , I would not care , So me hee'd spare , on whom he did use his hands . As he is well qualifide , which no way can be denied , So I with my heart , Do honour his desert , he hath my affection ty'd : Though sometime I speak , My sex being weak , a man that understands So much as he , Should patient be , And bear with me , How well were we if he could but rule his hands . M. P. FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , at the sign of the Horsshoo in Smithfield . Hold your hands honest Men , FOR Here's a good wife hath a Husband that likes her , In every respect , but only he strikes her , Then if you desire to be held men complete , What ever you do your wives do not beatrice . To the tune of , Keep a good tongue etc I Have as complete a man , as any poor woman can , He makes my heart to leap , His company to keep , it comforts me now and than : There's few exercises , That man enterprises , but he well understands , Yet like a dart , He wounds my heart , I for my part , Must bear the smart For he cannot rule his hands . His body is straight and tall , proportioned well withal , You may admire at him , To see how every limb , does in a due order stand : In every respect , Hee's void of defect , his legs are straight as wands , His back is strong , His arms are long , Hee's fresh and young , There's nothing wrong , If he could but rule his hands . He hath a grave aspect , his forehead hee'l seldom deject His eyes clear and bright , Like stars do give a light , not squinting but just direct , His haire's very big , Like a Perywig , in comely sort it stands , So curiously , It passes my Capacity To specify O that he could rule his hands . For his activity all love his company Hee's nimble and quick , Performing many a trick , which other men dare not try . To vault over a table , Few men are so able , his joints he so well commands None in this town Can put him down , His great renown should be my crown If that he could rule his hands . Hee'l bravely pitch the Bar , I near knew none so far , For throwing the stone Hee's equal'd by none , which many times breeds a jar But if they will quarrel , This at their own peril , for he on his credit stands , The proudest he What ere he be , He makes him flee , But woe is me , he cannot rule his hands . The second part , To the same tune . HEe'l wrestle with the best that's either for north or west When he comes i'th field The stoutest will yield , for he exceeds all the res For leaping and running , His wonderful cunning , is spread through diverse lands , Hee'l dance , hee'l sing , With art hee'l ring , Yet for nothing Hee'l throw and fling , and cannot rule his hands . Hee's learn'd in many arts , he travel'd in many parts , His pleasant discourse Makes many perforce , to yield to him their hearts , He is no way vicious , Hee's very judicious , and many things understands , I dare to tell He loves me well , If drink him quel Hee's fierce and fell , and cannot rule his hands . For Martial discipline , whose Husband passes mine I'm proud in good troth , To see how he does like Mars in his armour shine , He tosses a Pike , You never saw the like , he learn'd it i'th Netherlands For Musket shot , His equall's not , Alas God wot , Hee's too too hight , and cannot rule his hands . Hee'l draw the long bow as well as ever did Adam Bell , There's no man of strength , Exceeds him in length , as all that know him can tell . I speak without lying , Hee'l hit a bird flying , and shoot through hazel wands But few men dare With him compare , I would not care , So me hee'd spare , on whom he did use his hands . As he is well qualifide , which no way can be denied , So I with my heart , Do honour his desert , he hath my affection ty'd : Though sometime I speak , My sex being weak , a man that understands So much as he , Should patient be , And bear with me , How well were we if he could but rule his hands . M. P. FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , at the sign of the Horsshoo in Smithfield . 