Keep a good tongue in your head : FOR Here's a good woman in every respect , But only her tongue breeds all the defect . To the tune of the Milkmaids , etc I Marry'd a wife of late , the more's my unhappy fate I took her for love , As fancy did me move , and not for her worldly state . For qualities rare , Few with her compare , let me do her no wrong : I must confess , Her chief amiss , Is only this , As some wives is , she cannot rule her tongue . She that hath as sweet a face , as any in seaven miles space , Her eyes christalline , Like Diamonds do shine , she looks with a modest grace : Her hair is like flax , Her lips are read wax that seal the bound so strong Betwixt her and I , That till I die , I'll justify Her constancy , but she cannot rule her tonge . Her cheeks are read as the rose , ( which June for her glory shows ) Her teeth on a row , Stand like a wall of snow , between her round chin & her nose Higher shoulders are decent , Her arms white and pleasant , her fingers are small and long , No fault I find , But in my mind , Most womankind , Must come behind , oh that she could rule her tonge . Her breasts like Pyreene hills , which nature yearly fills With liquour that by ods Does pass the drink o'th gods , all Nectar it far excels , With this she does feed , The twigs that proceed from our affections strong , Shee's fruitful as The springing grass , No time's let pass , And yet alas she cannot rule her tongue . Her body which I have oft embraced so smooth and soft , Is slender and white , Proportioned aright , this straight as any shaft , Her leg is complete , Her foot's fine and neat , this neither too short nor too long , In every part Dame Nature's art , Gives her the start , With all my heart I wish she could rule her tonge . The second part To the same tune . AS she in feature excels , well nigh most women else Even so does her wit , If shee'l make use of it , as daily experience tells , I cannot deny it , If she be at quiet , her speeches will do no wrong Shee'l laugh and smile , New terms shee'l file , Yet in a while Shee'l change her style , and cannot rule her tonge . With eloquence she will dispute few women can her confute , She sings and she plays , And she knows all her keys , on the vial , de Gambo , or Lute Shee'l dance with a grace , Her measures shee'l trace , as does unto art belong , She is a Girl Fit for and Earl , Not for a churl , She were worth pearl , if she could but rule her tonge . Her needle she can use well , in that she does most excel , She can spin and knit , And every thing fit , as all her neighbours can tell : Her fingers apace , At weaving Bonelace , she uses all day long , All arts that be To women free , Of each degree Performeth she , Oh that she could rule her tonge . For housewifery she does exceed , she looks to her business with heed , Shee's early and late Employed I dare say't , to see all things well succeed , She is very wary To look to her Dary , as does to her charge belong , Her servants all Are at her call , But shee'l so brawl , That still I shall wish that she could rule her tonge With all that hath been said , no woman need be dismayed , Sith I have not been Incensed through spleen , in this spacious river to wade I none do disparage To hinder their marriage , but wish both old and young Great heed to take When choice they make For virtues sake , No venomous Snake stings like a woman's tongue . M. P. Printed at London for Thomas Lambert at the Horsshoo in Smithfield . FINIS . Keep a good tongue in your head : FOR Here's a good woman in every respect , But only her tongue breeds all the defect . To the tune of the Milkmaids , etc I Marry'd a wife of late , the more's my unhappy fate I took her for love , As fancy did me move , and not for her worldly state . For qualities rare , Few with her compare , let me do her no wrong : I must confess , Her chief amiss , Is only this , As some wives is , she cannot rule her tongue . She that hath as sweet a face , as any in seaven miles space , Her eyes christalline , Like Diamonds do shine , she looks with a modest grace : Her hair is like flax , Her lips are read wax that seal the bound so strong Betwixt her and I , That till I die , I'll justify Her constancy , but she cannot rule her tonge . Her cheeks are read as the rose , ( which June for her glory shows ) Her teeth on a row , Stand like a wall of snow , between her round chin & her nose Higher shoulders are decent , Her arms white and pleasant , her fingers are small and long , No fault I find , But in my mind , Most womankind , Must come behind , oh that she could rule her tonge . Her breasts like Pyreene hills , which nature yearly fills With liquour that by ods Does pass the drink o'th gods , all Nectar it far excels , With this she does feed , The twigs that proceed from our affections strong , Shee's fruitful as The springing grass , No time's let pass , And yet alas she cannot rule her tongue . Her body which I have oft embraced so smooth and soft , Is slender and white , Proportioned aright , this straight as any shaft , Her leg is complete , Her foot's fine and neat , this neither too short nor too long , In every part Dame Nature's art , Gives her the start , With all my heart I wish she could rule her tonge . The second part To the same tune . AS she in feature excels , well nigh most women else Even so does her wit , If shee'l make use of it , as daily experience tells , I cannot deny it , If she be at quiet , her speeches will do no wrong Shee'l laugh and smile , New terms shee'l file , Yet in a while Shee'l change her style , and cannot rule her tonge . With eloquence she will dispute few women can her confute , She sings and she plays , And she knows all her keys , on the vial , de Gambo , or Lute Shee'l dance with a grace , Her measures shee'l trace , as does unto art belong , She is a Girl Fit for and Earl , Not for a churl , She were worth pearl , if she could but rule her tonge . Her needle she can use well , in that she does most excel , She can spin and knit , And every thing fit , as all her neighbours can tell : Her fingers apace , At weaving Bonelace , she uses all day long , All arts that be To women free , Of each degree Performeth she , Oh that she could rule her tonge . For housewifery she does exceed , she looks to her business with heed , Shee's early and late Employed I dare say't , to see all things well succeed , She is very wary To look to her Dary , as does to her charge belong , Her servants all Are at her call , But shee'l so brawl , That still I shall wish that she could rule her tonge With all that hath been said , no woman need be dismayed , Sith I have not been Incensed through spleen , in this spacious river to wade I none do disparage To hinder their marriage , but wish both old and young Great heed to take When choice they make For virtues sake , No venomous Snake stings like a woman's tongue . M. P. Printed at London for Thomas Lambert at the Horsshoo in Smithfield . FINIS . 