The good Fellows best Beloved : Now if you will know what that should be , I'll tell you 'tis called good Ipse he : This that which some people do love in some measure , some for their profit and some for their pleasure . To the tune of Blue Cap . AMong the nine Muses if any there be that unto good fellowship friendly adhere , Let them give assistance this time unto me , for I in this ditty intend to prefer A thing that's beloved of rich and of poor , It is well approved , there's reason therefore , My due approbation shall evermore be In the commendation of good ipse he . All sorts and conditions the high and the low , although not alike yet all in some measure , Unto this my theme their affection will show , according as they have time , stomach , or treasure : There's few live so purely , but they now and then Will sip it demurely both women and men , Both married and simple do jointly agree , To fuddle their noses with good ipse he . Both Lawyers & clients that come to the term , how e're the case goes of one thing I am sure , Before any business can be setl'd firm , good liquour & money the means must procure , A Tavern bar often , makes peace ere they part , Canary can soften a plaintiffs hard heart , Their glasses they sup off , and make merry glee , Such power hath a cup of good good ipse he . The Taylor coms rubbing his hands in the morn , and calls for a cup of thee But next the wall , Be it of the Grape or the Barley Corn , hee'le drink out his breakfast his dinner & all , He says call and spare not , I'll go through stitch , Hang pinshing I care not for being too rich : John Black's a good fellow , and he allows me To make my self mellow with good ipse he . The merry Shoemaker when 'tis a hard frost , says he cannot work for his wax it is frozen , Faith what shall we do , let us go to our Host and make our selves merry with each a half dozen , With this resolution , they purpose to thrive , But ere the conclusion , that number proves five , They sing merry catches , few trades men that be , Are Shoemakers matches at good ipse he . The second part , To the same tune . THe Mason and bricklayers are summer birds , the Winter to them is a time of vacation : Then they & their laborous live on their words , unless ( like the Ant ) they have made prepara-tion , And yet though they have not , they ne'rethelesse think , Tush what if we save not , must we have no drink , Weel pawn tray and shovle , and more if need be , Our noses to fuddle with good ipse he . Grim Vulcan the blacksmith is chief of all trades then think you that he'l be in drinking inferior . No truly when hee's with his merry comrades , heel laugh and sing ditties you never herd merrier , He cries out hee's hight , and still this is his note Come gi's t'other po heer's a spark in my throat , He calls and he pays , there is no man more free , He seldom long stays from good ipse he . The Tanner when he comes to Leaden-hall , after a hard journey will make himself merry , He will have good liquour and welcome with all , the Bull for good beer and the nagshead for shery , No bargain shall stand , but what liquour does seal , Quite throughout the Land , thus most tradesmen do deal , In Tavern or Alehouse most matches made be , The first word's where shall us find good ipse he . The London shopkeepers that cry what do lack when they have sold wares & money have taken , They'l give their chapman a pint o'th best sack , the price of it out of their money abating , The proverb observing they that money take Must pay all the charges , this bargain they make , Thus Liquour makes all men , most friendly agree , Both low men and tall men , love good ipse he . The honest plain Husbandman when that he goes to fair or to market with corn or with cattle : When he hath dispatched he remembers his nose , how that must be arm'd as it were to a battle , Then like to a gallant to drinking he falls , Yet though hee's pot valiant , he pays what he calls : He scorns reputation in that base degree , His chief recreation is good ipse he . The generous Servingmen meeting each other as well as their master's sometimes will be merry , He that's a good fellow is lov'd like a brother , with making him welcome they never are weary He that is a clown , as a clown he may go Quite throughout the town , such a fellow theyle know : But those that are right will in union agree , By morn or by night at good ipse he . In brief thus it is which both women and men , so dearly affect that before they will lack i Theyle pawn all they have nay & so now & then , gown , kirtle , or waistcoat , cloak breeches and jacket , Although they want victual if they can get chink , Bee't never so little , 'tis most on't for drink : The rich and the beggar , the bound and the free Will oftentimes swagger at good ipse he . London Printed for John Wright junior , dwelling on Snow hill , at the Sign of the Sun . M. P. FINIS . The good Fellows best Beloved : Now if you will know what that should be , I'll tell you 'tis called good Ipse he : This that which some people do love in some measure , some for their profit and some for their pleasure . To the tune of Blue Cap . AMong the nine Muses if any there be that unto good fellowship friendly adhere , Let them give assistance this time unto me , for I in this ditty intend to prefer A thing that's beloved of rich and of poor , It is well approved , there's reason therefore , My due approbation shall evermore be In the commendation of good ipse he . All sorts and conditions the high and the low , although not alike yet all in some measure , Unto this my theme their affection will show , according as they have time , stomach , or treasure : There's few live so purely , but they now and then Will sip it demurely both women and men , Both married and simple do jointly agree , To fuddle their noses with good ipse he . Both Lawyers & clients that come to the term , how e're the case goes of one thing I am sure , Before any business can be setl'd firm , good liquour & money the means must procure , A Tavern bar often , makes peace ere they part , Canary can soften a plaintiffs hard heart , Their glasses they sup off , and make merry glee , Such power hath a cup of good good ipse he . The Taylor coms rubbing his hands in the morn , and calls for a cup of thee But next the wall , Be it of the Grape or the Barley Corn , hee'le drink out his breakfast his dinner & all , He says call and spare not , I'll go through stitch , Hang pinshing I care not for being too rich : John Black's a good fellow , and he allows me To make my self mellow with good ipse he . The merry Shoemaker when 'tis a hard frost , says he cannot work for his wax it is frozen , Faith what shall we do , let us go to our Host and make our selves merry with each a half dozen , With this resolution , they purpose to thrive , But ere the conclusion , that number proves five , They sing merry catches , few trades men that be , Are Shoemakers matches at good ipse he . The second part , To the same tune . THe Mason and bricklayers are summer birds , the Winter to them is a time of vacation : Then they & their laborous live on their words , unless ( like the Ant ) they have made prepara-tion , And yet though they have not , they ne'rethelesse think , Tush what if we save not , must we have no drink , Weel pawn tray and shovle , and more if need be , Our noses to fuddle with good ipse he . Grim Vulcan the blacksmith is chief of all trades then think you that he'l be in drinking inferior . No truly when hee's with his merry comrades , heel laugh and sing ditties you never herd merrier , He cries out hee's hight , and still this is his note Come gi's t'other po heer's a spark in my throat , He calls and he pays , there is no man more free , He seldom long stays from good ipse he . The Tanner when he comes to Leaden-hall , after a hard journey will make himself merry , He will have good liquour and welcome with all , the Bull for good beer and the nagshead for shery , No bargain shall stand , but what liquour does seal , Quite throughout the Land , thus most tradesmen do deal , In Tavern or Alehouse most matches made be , The first word's where shall us find good ipse he . The London shopkeepers that cry what do lack when they have sold wares & money have taken , They'l give their chapman a pint o'th best sack , the price of it out of their money abating , The proverb observing they that money take Must pay all the charges , this bargain they make , Thus Liquour makes all men , most friendly agree , Both low men and tall men , love good ipse he . The honest plain Husbandman when that he goes to fair or to market with corn or with cattle : When he hath dispatched he remembers his nose , how that must be arm'd as it were to a battle , Then like to a gallant to drinking he falls , Yet though hee's pot valiant , he pays what he calls : He scorns reputation in that base degree , His chief recreation is good ipse he . The generous Servingmen meeting each other as well as their master's sometimes will be merry , He that's a good fellow is lov'd like a brother , with making him welcome they never are weary He that is a clown , as a clown he may go Quite throughout the town , such a fellow theyle know : But those that are right will in union agree , By morn or by night at good ipse he . In brief thus it is which both women and men , so dearly affect that before they will lack i Theyle pawn all they have nay & so now & then , gown , kirtle , or waistcoat , cloak breeches and jacket , Although they want victual if they can get chink , Bee't never so little , 'tis most on't for drink : The rich and the beggar , the bound and the free Will oftentimes swagger at good ipse he . London Printed for John Wright junior , dwelling on Snow hill , at the Sign of the Sun . M. P. FINIS . 