John Hadlands advice : Or a warning for all young men that have means , advising them to for - sake lewd company Cards , Dice , and Queans , To the tune of the bonny bonny Broom . TO all men now I'll plainly show , how I have spent my time , For I have wrought my overthrow with drinking Beer and Wine : I had no grace for to foresee my folly , 'till 'twas too late , But still did follow lewd company , I mean each drunken Mate . But now I may with sorrow sadly say , my heart is filled with woes , Had it not been for the good Ale-tap , I had gone in better clothes . My means is spent and all is gone , and friendship now is grown cold , Alas , I'm comfortless alone , now I think o'th proverb old , Which says as long as men have means they shall regarded be : But having none they loose their friends , and then comes misery . For now I may , etc So long as I had money store , I had much pleasure indeed , But now alas I am grown poor , and do want to serve my need : But there is none will do for me , as I for others have done , For I was always kind and free , and that is plainly known . But now , etc I have been drinking oftentimes , among the roaring brave Boys , Of Beer and Ale , and choice of Wines , which I have thought much joys . But now I find it was not good to use such company . For now alas I have understood , it hath caused my misery . And now , etc I had no power for to give o're , when once I did begin , I spent my money and run o'th store , to follow that deadly sin : Alas I did not think that I should e're have suffered want , For I did cry hang't let money fly , 'tis vain to think upon't . But now , etc While I had means I still found friends which made a very fair show , But now I want , their friendship ends , and me they will not know . Which striketh terror to my poor heart to think what I have been , But now I suffer woe and smart even for my former sin . And now , etc My Host and Hostesses where I came , they would bid me welcome still , I was the man that had the fame , to call and bid them fill : If I bid go then they would run , to tend on me they were willing : And many a time it was well known , for two groats I paid a shilling . But now I may with sorrow sadly say , my heart is filled with woes , Had it , etc The second part , To the same tune . THeir words were sweet & I might greet , my Hosts and her fine Maid , With a kiss or two when as none did see't , but I have full dearly paid . For they would crave fine knacks to have , and I did give it them still . My means maintain'd them fine & brave , their minds I did fulfil . But now I may with sorrow sadly say , my heart is filled with woes : Had it not been for the good Ale-tap , I had gone in better clothes . Sometime and ell of Lawn or two , Cambrick or Holland most fine , For a favour on a Lass I did bestow , to walk with me tot'h Wine , And there I have consum'd my means , in a most shameful sort , among those Caterpillar queans , which grieves me to report . But , etc You Gallants all , to you I cry and call , learn by me for to be wise , For I did climb till I had catched a fallen , and now I cannot rise : Therefore I'm in a woeful estate , as all men plainly may see : Now I repent but 'tis too late , for there is no remedy . And , etc Now must I stand with my cap in my hand , and of a clown favour crave , Whereas formerly I have had command of those were fine and brave : But now brave Gallants me despise , because that I have no means , Once more young men learn to be wise , hate Cards , Dice , Whores , and Queans . For , etc John Hadland now some doe me call , and that name well I may have : I being poor they will chide and braule , and do call me rogue and slave : Which is much grief unto my mind , to think they should use me so , They'r harsh to me to whom I was kind , my friend is grown my foe . Therefore , etc Thus have I told to young and old , that they may warning now take , For hereby me you may well behold , that friends will you forsake : When once that you grow poor and bore , and have no money to pay , Then follows misery grief and care , and your friends depart away . Therefore I may with sorrow sadly say , my heart is filled with woes : Had it not been for the good Ale-tap , I had gone in better clothes . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . R.C. John Hadlands advice : Or a warning for all young men that have means , advising them to for - sake lewd company Cards , Dice , and Queans , To the tune of the bonny bonny Broom . TO all men now I'll plainly show , how I have spent my time , For I have wrought my overthrow with drinking Beer and Wine : I had no grace for to foresee my folly , 'till 'twas too late , But still did follow lewd company , I mean each drunken Mate . But now I may with sorrow sadly say , my heart is filled with woes , Had it not been for the good Ale-tap , I had gone in better clothes . My means is spent and all is gone , and friendship now is grown cold , Alas , I'm comfortless alone , now I think o'th proverb old , Which says as long as men have means they shall regarded be : But having none they loose their friends , and then comes misery . For now I may , etc So long as I had money store , I had much pleasure indeed , But now alas I am grown poor , and do want to serve my need : But there is none will do for me , as I for others have done , For I was always kind and free , and that is plainly known . But now , etc I have been drinking oftentimes , among the roaring brave Boys , Of Beer and Ale , and choice of Wines , which I have thought much joys . But now I find it was not good to use such company . For now alas I have understood , it hath caused my misery . And now , etc I had no power for to give o're , when once I did begin , I spent my money and run o'th store , to follow that deadly sin : Alas I did not think that I should e're have suffered want , For I did cry hang't let money fly , 'tis vain to think upon't . But now , etc While I had means I still found friends which made a very fair show , But now I want , their friendship ends , and me they will not know . Which striketh terror to my poor heart to think what I have been , But now I suffer woe and smart even for my former sin . And now , etc My Host and Hostesses where I came , they would bid me welcome still , I was the man that had the fame , to call and bid them fill : If I bid go then they would run , to tend on me they were willing : And many a time it was well known , for two groats I paid a shilling . But now I may with sorrow sadly say , my heart is filled with woes , Had it , etc The second part , To the same tune . THeir words were sweet & I might greet , my Hosts and her fine Maid , With a kiss or two when as none did see't , but I have full dearly paid . For they would crave fine knacks to have , and I did give it them still . My means maintain'd them fine & brave , their minds I did fulfil . But now I may with sorrow sadly say , my heart is filled with woes : Had it not been for the good Ale-tap , I had gone in better clothes . Sometime and ell of Lawn or two , Cambrick or Holland most fine , For a favour on a Lass I did bestow , to walk with me tot'h Wine , And there I have consum'd my means , in a most shameful sort , among those Caterpillar queans , which grieves me to report . But , etc You Gallants all , to you I cry and call , learn by me for to be wise , For I did climb till I had catched a fallen , and now I cannot rise : Therefore I'm in a woeful estate , as all men plainly may see : Now I repent but 'tis too late , for there is no remedy . And , etc Now must I stand with my cap in my hand , and of a clown favour crave , Whereas formerly I have had command of those were fine and brave : But now brave Gallants me despise , because that I have no means , Once more young men learn to be wise , hate Cards , Dice , Whores , and Queans . For , etc John Hadland now some doe me call , and that name well I may have : I being poor they will chide and braule , and do call me rogue and slave : Which is much grief unto my mind , to think they should use me so , They'r harsh to me to whom I was kind , my friend is grown my foe . Therefore , etc Thus have I told to young and old , that they may warning now take , For hereby me you may well behold , that friends will you forsake : When once that you grow poor and bore , and have no money to pay , Then follows misery grief and care , and your friends depart away . Therefore I may with sorrow sadly say , my heart is filled with woes : Had it not been for the good Ale-tap , I had gone in better clothes . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . R.C. 