The Married men Lesson : OR , A dissuasion from Jealousy . To the tune of , All you that will woo a wench . YOu men who are marri'd come harken to me , I'le teach you a Lesson if wise you will be , Then take my advice that's intended for good , and so 'tis if it be but well understood : 'Twill cause you to shun all contention and spleen , that daily betwixt man and woman are seen , I speak against jealousy that monster fierce . and wish I could conquer the Fiend with my verse , Oh Be not thou jealous I prithee deer Lad , for jealousy makes many good women bad . If thou have a good wife then I thee advice to cherish her well for she is a rare prize , If she be indifferent between good and bad , good means to reform her may easily be had : If she be so evil that there is few worse , imagine thy sins have deserved that curse , Then bear with true patience thy cross as 'tis fit , and thou to a blessing thereby mayest turn it . But be not , etc Between these 3. winds the good , bad , & the mean , I ground the whole argument of this my Theme , For in them a men humane bliss , or his woe , does chiefly consist as experience does show : Thus is it not counsel that's worthy regard , which teaches to soften a thing that is hard , And what I intend is in every men will , to turn to a virtue what seems most ill . Then be , etc A wife that is good being beautiful may perhaps raise suspicion that shee'l go astray , Oh note the found humours that most men possess , they'r neither content with the more nor the less , For if she be homely , then her he will slight , to such neither fair , nor foul , can yield delight , If once heel be jealous the other he scorns , there's no greater plagues then imagined horns . Then be not , etc A wife that's indifferent between good and ill , is she that in housewifery shows her good will , Yet sometime her voice she too much elevates , is that the occasion for which her he hates : A sovereign remedy for this disease , is to hold thy tongue let her say what she please : Judge , is not this better then to fight and scratch , for silence will soonest a Shrew over match . However I pray thee shun jealousy Lad , for jealousy makes many good women bad . A wife that's all bad if thy luck be to have , seek not to reclaim her by making her slave , If she be as bad as ever trod one ground , not fighting nor jealousy will heal that wound : For mark when a River is stopped in its course , it overflows the banks then the danger is worse . Thy own good example and patience with all , may her from her vices much rather recall . Then be not , etc The second part . To the same tune . A Wife that is virtuous in every respect , who does her vow'd duty at no time neglect , She's not free from censure , for fools their bolts shoot as oft at the head as they do at the foot : A kiss , or a smile , or a Jest , or a dance , familior discour [ s ] e or and amorous glance , All these as her witness envy does bring , the credit of innocent women to sting . But be not thou jealous I pray thee deer Lad , for jealousy makes many good women bad . A wife that's indifferent if curb'd over much , will grow worse & worse for their nature is such , The more thou with rigor dost seek her to mend , the more they'l persist and grow desperate i'th end , And thus from indifferency wanting good means , Some well meaning women turn impudient queans , if goodness by beating thou seek'st to infuse , For breaking her flesh thou all goodness dost bruise . Then be not , etc A wife at the worst ( as I told you before ) a drunkard , a swearer , a scold , thief , or whore , By gentle persuasions , reclaimed may be , my self by experience , but lately did see : A man that with jealousy plagued had been , when he the last labour and trouble had seen , He cast off his care , and referred all to's wife , who soon left her vices and led a new life . Then be not , etc I also have known a wife handsome and neat , of whom her found husband did take a conceate , That other men lov'd her because she was fair , though on the contrary , to him she did swear : He watched her , he ey'd her , he noted her ways , and once he in's drink , he a scandal would raise , This usage irregular set her on fire , & so from thence forward she proved him not liar , Then be not , etc Consider each circumstance with good regard , how oft causeless jealousy wins due reward , And likewise I wish thee to bear in thy breast , that patience and quietness still is the best . For if she benought she'le grow worse with restraint but patience may make of a harlot , a Saint , If fair means prevail not , thou'lt ne're do't by foul for meekness ( if any thing ) must win a soul Then be not , etc Now lastly to both men and women I speak , from this foolish fancy their humours to break , be loving and tractable each unto other , and what is amiss let affection still smother : So shall man and wife in a sympathy sweet , at board , and at bed ( as they ought to do ) meet , All fighting and scratching , and scolding shall cease , where jealousies harbord there can be no peace . Then be not thou jaelous I pray thee deer Lad , for jealousy makes many good women bad . FINIS . Printed at LONDON for John Wright , the younger , dwelling at the Sign of the Sun , at the lower end of Snow-hill , near un - to Holborne Conduit . M.P. The Married men Lesson : OR , A dissuasion from Jealousy . To the tune of , All you that will woo a wench . YOu men who are marri'd come harken to me , I'le teach you a Lesson if wise you will be , Then take my advice that's intended for good , and so 'tis if it be but well understood : 'Twill cause you to shun all contention and spleen , that daily betwixt man and woman are seen , I speak against jealousy that monster fierce . and wish I could conquer the Fiend with my verse , Oh Be not thou jealous I prithee deer Lad , for jealousy makes many good women bad . If thou have a good wife then I thee advice to cherish her well for she is a rare prize , If she be indifferent between good and bad , good means to reform her may easily be had : If she be so evil that there is few worse , imagine thy sins have deserved that curse , Then bear with true patience thy cross as 'tis fit , and thou to a blessing thereby mayest turn it . But be not , etc Between these 3. winds the good , bad , & the mean , I ground the whole argument of this my Theme , For in them a men humane bliss , or his woe , does chiefly consist as experience does show : Thus is it not counsel that's worthy regard , which teaches to soften a thing that is hard , And what I intend is in every men will , to turn to a virtue what seems most ill . Then be , etc A wife that is good being beautiful may perhaps raise suspicion that shee'l go astray , Oh note the found humours that most men possess , they'r neither content with the more nor the less , For if she be homely , then her he will slight , to such neither fair , nor foul , can yield delight , If once heel be jealous the other he scorns , there's no greater plagues then imagined horns . Then be not , etc A wife that's indifferent between good and ill , is she that in housewifery shows her good will , Yet sometime her voice she too much elevates , is that the occasion for which her he hates : A sovereign remedy for this disease , is to hold thy tongue let her say what she please : Judge , is not this better then to fight and scratch , for silence will soonest a Shrew over match . However I pray thee shun jealousy Lad , for jealousy makes many good women bad . A wife that's all bad if thy luck be to have , seek not to reclaim her by making her slave , If she be as bad as ever trod one ground , not fighting nor jealousy will heal that wound : For mark when a River is stopped in its course , it overflows the banks then the danger is worse . Thy own good example and patience with all , may her from her vices much rather recall . Then be not , etc The second part . To the same tune . A Wife that is virtuous in every respect , who does her vow'd duty at no time neglect , She's not free from censure , for fools their bolts shoot as oft at the head as they do at the foot : A kiss , or a smile , or a Jest , or a dance , familior discour [ s ] e or and amorous glance , All these as her witness envy does bring , the credit of innocent women to sting . But be not thou jealous I pray thee deer Lad , for jealousy makes many good women bad . A wife that's indifferent if curb'd over much , will grow worse & worse for their nature is such , The more thou with rigor dost seek her to mend , the more they'l persist and grow desperate i'th end , And thus from indifferency wanting good means , Some well meaning women turn impudient queans , if goodness by beating thou seek'st to infuse , For breaking her flesh thou all goodness dost bruise . Then be not , etc A wife at the worst ( as I told you before ) a drunkard , a swearer , a scold , thief , or whore , By gentle persuasions , reclaimed may be , my self by experience , but lately did see : A man that with jealousy plagued had been , when he the last labour and trouble had seen , He cast off his care , and referred all to's wife , who soon left her vices and led a new life . Then be not , etc I also have known a wife handsome and neat , of whom her found husband did take a conceate , That other men lov'd her because she was fair , though on the contrary , to him she did swear : He watched her , he ey'd her , he noted her ways , and once he in's drink , he a scandal would raise , This usage irregular set her on fire , & so from thence forward she proved him not liar , Then be not , etc Consider each circumstance with good regard , how oft causeless jealousy wins due reward , And likewise I wish thee to bear in thy breast , that patience and quietness still is the best . For if she benought she'le grow worse with restraint but patience may make of a harlot , a Saint , If fair means prevail not , thou'lt ne're do't by foul for meekness ( if any thing ) must win a soul Then be not , etc Now lastly to both men and women I speak , from this foolish fancy their humours to break , be loving and tractable each unto other , and what is amiss let affection still smother : So shall man and wife in a sympathy sweet , at board , and at bed ( as they ought to do ) meet , All fighting and scratching , and scolding shall cease , where jealousies harbord there can be no peace . Then be not thou jaelous I pray thee deer Lad , for jealousy makes many good women bad . FINIS . Printed at LONDON for John Wright , the younger , dwelling at the Sign of the Sun , at the lower end of Snow-hill , near un - to Holborne Conduit . M.P. 