A Woman's Work is never done Here is a Song for Maids to sing , Both in the Winter and the Spring ; It is such a pretty conceited thing , Which will much pleasure to them bring . Maids may fit still , go , or run , But a Woman's work is never done . To a delicate Northern Tune , A Woman's work is never done , Or , The Beds making . AS I was wandering on the way , I herd a married Woman say , That she had lived a solid life , Ever since the time that she was made a wife . For why ( quoth she ) my Labour is hard , And all my pleasures are debarr'd : Both Morning , Evening , Night and Noon , I'm sure a Woman's work is never done . And now ( quoth she ) I will relate , The manner of my woeful Fate ; And how my self I do bestow , As all my Neighbours well do know : And therein all that will it hear , Unto my song I pray a while give ear ; I'll make it plainly to appear right soon , How that a Woman's work is never done . For when that I rise up early in the morn , Before that I my head with dressings adorn , I sweep & cleanse the house as need does require Or if that it be cold , I make a fire : Then my Husbands breakfast I must dress , To fill his belly with some wholesome mess ; Perhaps thereof I eat a little or none , But I'm sure a Woman's work is never done . Next thing that I in order do , My children must be looked unto ; Then I take them from their naked beds , To put on their clothes and comb their heads : And then what hap soever do betide , Their breakfast straight I must provide . Bred cries my Daughter , and drink my Son , And thus a Woman's work is never done . And when that I have fill'd their bellies full , Some of them I pack away to School , All save one sucking Child , that at my breast Does knaw and bite , and sorely me moles But when I have laid him down to sleep , I am constrain'd the house to keep , For then the Pottage-pot I must hang on , And thus a Woman's work is never done . The second Part to the same Tune . ANd when my pottage-pot is ready to hoil , I must be careful all the while ; And for to scum the Pot is my desire , Or else all the fat will run i'th fire . But when th'leven a clock bell it does chime , Then I know 'tis near upon dinner time : To lay the Tablecloth I then do run , And thus a Woman's work is never done . When dinner time is gone and overpast , My Husband he runs out o'th doors in haste ; He scarce gives me a kiss for all that I Have dealt and done to him so lovingly . Which sometime grieves me to the heart , To see him so clownishly depar But to my first Discourse let me go on , To show a Woman's work is never done . There's never a day from morn to night , But I with work am tired quite ; For when the game with me is at the best , I hardly in a day take one hours res Sometime I knit , and sometime I spin , Sometime I wash , and sometimes I do wring , Sometime I fit and sow by my self alone , And thus a Woman's work is never done . In making of the Beds such pains I take , Until my back , and sides , and arms do ache ; And yet my Husband deals so cruelly , That he but seldom comes to comfort me . And then at night when the clock strikes nine My Husband he will say , 'tis supper time ; Then presently he must be waited upon , And thus a Woman's work is never done . When Supper's ended to bed we must go , You all do know 'tis fitting it should be so : Then do I think to settle all things right , In hope that I shall take some rest by night . The biggest of my Children together I lay , And place them by degrees so well as I may : But yet there is a thing to be thought upon , For why a Woman's work is never done . Then if my Husband turns me to the wall , Then my sucking Child will cry and brawl , Six or seven times for the breast t'wil cry , And then I pray you judge what rest take I . And if at at any time a sleep I be , Perchance my Husband wakes , & then wakes me ; Then he does that to me which I cannot shun , Yet I could wish that Work were oftener done . All you merry Girls that hear this Ditty , Both in the Country , and in the City ; Take good notice of my Lines I pray , And make the use of the time you may : You see that Maids live more merrier lives , Then do the best of married Wives : And thus to end my Song as I begun , You know a Woman's work is never done . Entered according to Order . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion in Pye-Corner . A Woman's Work is never done Here is a Song for Maids to sing , Both in the Winter and the Spring ; It is such a pretty conceited thing , Which will much pleasure to them bring . Maids may fit still , go , or run , But a Woman's work is never done . To a delicate Northern Tune , A Woman's work is never done , Or , The Beds making . AS I was wandering on the way , I herd a married Woman say , That she had lived a solid life , Ever since the time that she was made a wife . For why ( quoth she ) my Labour is hard , And all my pleasures are debarr'd : Both Morning , Evening , Night and Noon , I'm sure a Woman's work is never done . And now ( quoth she ) I will relate , The manner of my woeful Fate ; And how my self I do bestow , As all my Neighbours well do know : And therein all that will it hear , Unto my song I pray a while give ear ; I'll make it plainly to appear right soon , How that a Woman's work is never done . For when that I rise up early in the morn , Before that I my head with dressings adorn , I sweep & cleanse the house as need does require Or if that it be cold , I make a fire : Then my Husbands breakfast I must dress , To fill his belly with some wholesome mess ; Perhaps thereof I eat a little or none , But I'm sure a Woman's work is never done . Next thing that I in order do , My children must be looked unto ; Then I take them from their naked beds , To put on their clothes and comb their heads : And then what hap soever do betide , Their breakfast straight I must provide . Bred cries my Daughter , and drink my Son , And thus a Woman's work is never done . And when that I have fill'd their bellies full , Some of them I pack away to School , All save one sucking Child , that at my breast Does knaw and bite , and sorely me moles But when I have laid him down to sleep , I am constrain'd the house to keep , For then the Pottage-pot I must hang on , And thus a Woman's work is never done . The second Part to the same Tune . ANd when my pottage-pot is ready to hoil , I must be careful all the while ; And for to scum the Pot is my desire , Or else all the fat will run i'th fire . But when th'leven a clock bell it does chime , Then I know 'tis near upon dinner time : To lay the Tablecloth I then do run , And thus a Woman's work is never done . When dinner time is gone and overpast , My Husband he runs out o'th doors in haste ; He scarce gives me a kiss for all that I Have dealt and done to him so lovingly . Which sometime grieves me to the heart , To see him so clownishly depar But to my first Discourse let me go on , To show a Woman's work is never done . There's never a day from morn to night , But I with work am tired quite ; For when the game with me is at the best , I hardly in a day take one hours res Sometime I knit , and sometime I spin , Sometime I wash , and sometimes I do wring , Sometime I fit and sow by my self alone , And thus a Woman's work is never done . In making of the Beds such pains I take , Until my back , and sides , and arms do ache ; And yet my Husband deals so cruelly , That he but seldom comes to comfort me . And then at night when the clock strikes nine My Husband he will say , 'tis supper time ; Then presently he must be waited upon , And thus a Woman's work is never done . When Supper's ended to bed we must go , You all do know 'tis fitting it should be so : Then do I think to settle all things right , In hope that I shall take some rest by night . The biggest of my Children together I lay , And place them by degrees so well as I may : But yet there is a thing to be thought upon , For why a Woman's work is never done . Then if my Husband turns me to the wall , Then my sucking Child will cry and brawl , Six or seven times for the breast t'wil cry , And then I pray you judge what rest take I . And if at at any time a sleep I be , Perchance my Husband wakes , & then wakes me ; Then he does that to me which I cannot shun , Yet I could wish that Work were oftener done . All you merry Girls that hear this Ditty , Both in the Country , and in the City ; Take good notice of my Lines I pray , And make the use of the time you may : You see that Maids live more merrier lives , Then do the best of married Wives : And thus to end my Song as I begun , You know a Woman's work is never done . Entered according to Order . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion in Pye-Corner . 