The Begger-Boy of the North : Whose lineage and calling to th' world is proclaim'd , Which is to be sung to a Tune so nam'd . FRom ancient pedigree by due descent , I well can derive my generation , Throughout all Christendome and also Ken my calling is known both in Term and Vacation , My Parents old taught me to be bold , I'll never be daunted what ever is spoken , Where ere I come my custom I hold , and cry , Good your worship bestow one token . In ragged raiments I wander about , both hight and cold weather I'm arm'd to endure , Though but a Boy I am sturdy and stout , a living by begging I easily procure : My skin is made like armour of proof , by Sun nor by frost 'twill never be broken , No threatening s [ quir ] es shall keep me aloof , but still I will cry , Good your worship one token . My Father , my Mother , my Grandsire and Grannum , my Uncles , my Ants , and all my kindred , Did maund for Loure , casum and pannum , then wherefore should I from the Trade be hindered Cat will to kind , the Proverb does say , 'tis pity old customs should be broken , Still as I wander along on the way , I'll cry , good your worship bestow one token . Although in the Quier-ken I have been off , and by the Rumcoe and the Harmanbecke frighted , Yet my old Trade I will set aloft , wherein all my lineage have chiefly delighted , I have eat shame , and drunk after the same , I little regard what to me is spoken , Loud in the streets my mind I proclaim , and cry , good your worship bestow one token . To whet your charity , I have a trick , a trick said I , nay I have a hundred , With a Cap on my head , I can feign to be sick , to see my strange gestures the people have wondered I can counterfeit a lame arm or a leg , and sometime I'll seem like one that is broken , This must he do that exactly will beg , and cry , good your worship bestow one token . I can hold my fingers as though they were lame , lest people should say I were able to labour , And under a hedge along I can frame , as though it were writ by the Justices favour , From Parish to Parish along as I room , my wants in black and white are spoken , Go where I will I am always at home ; and still I do cry , good your worship one token . The second part . To the same Tune . THe Crow her own bird does deem the most fair , and so do I of my profession ; If I were adopted a rich men Heir , this life of my heart hath taken such possession , That I should leave my livings and lands , and flee like a Citizen when he is broken , I cannot abide to work with my hands , but still I must cry , good your worship one token . The richest Miser that lives this day , hath not so much ground as I at disposing , My fields lie open as the high way . I wrong not the Country by greedy enclosing , I spend what I get , and get what I spend , all this for certain which I have spoken , I am no other than what I pretend , for still do I cry , good your worship one token . I am not in debt , there's good reason therefore , for no man will credit me with half a shilling , And yet if I chance to run on the score , to pay for my booze of all things I am willing , When I with my Mates at the bouzing ken meet , our brains with strong liquour soundly are soken , And when I want lower then I step into th' street , and cry , good your worship bestow one token . Ith heat of the Summer I lend a fine life , to walk the green meadows for my recreation , And when I am old enough to have a wife , I'll join with my doxy on the wandering fashion , Under a hedge I can lie and snort , by no worldly cares my sleep is broken , And now and then I repair to the Court , where I do beg greater gifts than a token . All the cold winter I keep rendevouse ; in and old spacious bairn by beggars frequented , Or else in the bouzing ken I do carouse , and to lib in strummell I am well contented , I am not proud nor high in conceit , though some beggars are so as it is spoken ; I care more for drink than for clothing or meat , which makes me cry , good your worship one token . In the North Country I first had my birth : from whence I came naked unto London City , Where a good fellow compos'd all of mirth , upon the poor Boy did take some pity , And now he hath cloath'd me in black and white , and mended my rags which before were broken : If this my Ditty will yield you delight , I shall thank you more than I would for a token . London , printed for F. Grove . FINIS . The Begger-Boy of the North : Whose lineage and calling to th' world is proclaim'd , Which is to be sung to a Tune so nam'd . FRom ancient pedigree by due descent , I well can derive my generation , Throughout all Christendome and also Ken my calling is known both in Term and Vacation , My Parents old taught me to be bold , I'll never be daunted what ever is spoken , Where ere I come my custom I hold , and cry , Good your worship bestow one token . In ragged raiments I wander about , both hight and cold weather I'm arm'd to endure , Though but a Boy I am sturdy and stout , a living by begging I easily procure : My skin is made like armour of proof , by Sun nor by frost 'twill never be broken , No threatening s [ quir ] es shall keep me aloof , but still I will cry , Good your worship one token . My Father , my Mother , my Grandsire and Grannum , my Uncles , my Ants , and all my kindred , Did maund for Loure , casum and pannum , then wherefore should I from the Trade be hindered Cat will to kind , the Proverb does say , 'tis pity old customs should be broken , Still as I wander along on the way , I'll cry , good your worship bestow one token . Although in the Quier-ken I have been off , and by the Rumcoe and the Harmanbecke frighted , Yet my old Trade I will set aloft , wherein all my lineage have chiefly delighted , I have eat shame , and drunk after the same , I little regard what to me is spoken , Loud in the streets my mind I proclaim , and cry , good your worship bestow one token . To whet your charity , I have a trick , a trick said I , nay I have a hundred , With a Cap on my head , I can feign to be sick , to see my strange gestures the people have wondered I can counterfeit a lame arm or a leg , and sometime I'll seem like one that is broken , This must he do that exactly will beg , and cry , good your worship bestow one token . I can hold my fingers as though they were lame , lest people should say I were able to labour , And under a hedge along I can frame , as though it were writ by the Justices favour , From Parish to Parish along as I room , my wants in black and white are spoken , Go where I will I am always at home ; and still I do cry , good your worship one token . The second part . To the same Tune . THe Crow her own bird does deem the most fair , and so do I of my profession ; If I were adopted a rich men Heir , this life of my heart hath taken such possession , That I should leave my livings and lands , and flee like a Citizen when he is broken , I cannot abide to work with my hands , but still I must cry , good your worship one token . The richest Miser that lives this day , hath not so much ground as I at disposing , My fields lie open as the high way . I wrong not the Country by greedy enclosing , I spend what I get , and get what I spend , all this for certain which I have spoken , I am no other than what I pretend , for still do I cry , good your worship one token . I am not in debt , there's good reason therefore , for no man will credit me with half a shilling , And yet if I chance to run on the score , to pay for my booze of all things I am willing , When I with my Mates at the bouzing ken meet , our brains with strong liquour soundly are soken , And when I want lower then I step into th' street , and cry , good your worship bestow one token . Ith heat of the Summer I lend a fine life , to walk the green meadows for my recreation , And when I am old enough to have a wife , I'll join with my doxy on the wandering fashion , Under a hedge I can lie and snort , by no worldly cares my sleep is broken , And now and then I repair to the Court , where I do beg greater gifts than a token . All the cold winter I keep rendevouse ; in and old spacious bairn by beggars frequented , Or else in the bouzing ken I do carouse , and to lib in strummell I am well contented , I am not proud nor high in conceit , though some beggars are so as it is spoken ; I care more for drink than for clothing or meat , which makes me cry , good your worship one token . In the North Country I first had my birth : from whence I came naked unto London City , Where a good fellow compos'd all of mirth , upon the poor Boy did take some pity , And now he hath cloath'd me in black and white , and mended my rags which before were broken : If this my Ditty will yield you delight , I shall thank you more than I would for a token . London , printed for F. Grove . FINIS . 