Money is my Master : Yet once it was a servant unto me , But now for want of Money I am in misery , Yet I do hope to find some remedy . To the tune of , Better late thrive then never . I Have been the Master of money good store , but now alas 'tis nothing so , For now I am grown very exceeding poor , and cannot well tell what to do : 'Tis want of this money for that was my friend , And when I had store I it lewdly did spend , I thought I should never of it seen and end , This money is many men's master their master , 'Tis money is now grown my master . Perhaps some will say it is but as dross , but I say it is a fine mettle , For he that wants money is possessed with a cross , and is like to enjoy but a ltittle : For he that hath money may have what he will , Look what he desires his mind to fulfil , With brave entertainment and kind welcome still , 'Tis money is many men's master their master , This money , etc Whereas I had store of silver and gold , then I was respected with Gallants , But now I have none their love is grown cold , and I'm more rejected then valliants . Those that I have feasted with wine & good cheer From me stand a loft & will not come me near , Because I want means it puts me in fear . 'Tis money is many men's master their Master , 'Tis money , etc Thus lack of this money makes all men forego me , as if they ne're saw me before , But if I had money i'm sure they would know me and I should have company store : They would come unto me with tales and with lies , And many brave projects they soon would devise , But let men be careful , such are cunning spies , 'Tis money is many men's master their master , 'Tis money , etc Now I all alone may fit like and ass , while others are frollickly drinking , And freely carousing the cup and the glass , I to my self sadly am thinking , How they are in danger to fallen in the snare . Wherein I am tangled with grief & with care , Therefore I advice you such lewdness forbear , 'Tis money is many men's master their master , 'Tis money , etc This money's a servant likewise I may say , to them that do carefully use it , But it is uncertain and soon runs away , and specially if once you abuse i I mean if you wast it in drinking and pride , At Cards Dice and whores full fast it will slide , Leave off all such follies for thus I have tri'd , That money becometh my master my master , 'Tis money that now is my Master . The second part , To the same tune . LIkewise there are some to money are slaves , and do esteem it as their God , Then more that they have the more still they crave but those are most impudent bad : For money was made for to pass to and from , As for them that hoard it 'twill turn to their woe , But for my own part I did never do so . For money is now grown my master my master , 'Tis money is now grown my master . This money is grown such a conqueror , as Alexander was never greater , He gained all his credit and honour by war But money now wins it more better : There are many brave sparks march in silver & gold , That the face of a foe they did scarce e're behold , It is their great maintenance that makes them bold And these are right master's of money of money , Oh these are , etc This fine Master Money is grown such a man , that many would feign enter in it , But ner'e since those witches from Lancaster came , could I have the fortune to gain i 'Twill one day be better but certain ne're worse , If ere I get Money again in my purse , I'll lay a grey groat I'll take a better course , And seek to be a master of money of money , I feign would , etc This lack of this Money does trouble my mind , that I am full sorely tormented , I have much a do a kind Hostis to find , that will with me now be contented : Quoth she give me Money for I will not score , She says she hath chalk enough behind the door , But I must entreat her to set up some more , Till I can be , etc Now he that hath Money thouh't be but a boy , he shall be made welcome most friendly , The love of brave Gallants he soon may enjoy , and he shall be used most kindly : Theres no age nor wit no strength can prevail , 'Tis Money may do't for it is a sure bail , and he that hath it can seldom times fail , This money , etc Now thus to conclude and so end my ditty , you that have money make good use on't , For friendship is cold in Country Town & City if once you be driven to want , Therefore now be warned , for here you may see The griefs & the sorrows that now possess me , And this was all long of my bad husbandry . 'Tis money is many men's master their master , 'Tis money is now grown my master . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis Coules . Money is my Master : Yet once it was a servant unto me , But now for want of Money I am in misery , Yet I do hope to find some remedy . To the tune of , Better late thrive then never . I Have been the Master of money good store , but now alas 'tis nothing so , For now I am grown very exceeding poor , and cannot well tell what to do : 'Tis want of this money for that was my friend , And when I had store I it lewdly did spend , I thought I should never of it seen and end , This money is many men's master their master , 'Tis money is now grown my master . Perhaps some will say it is but as dross , but I say it is a fine mettle , For he that wants money is possessed with a cross , and is like to enjoy but a ltittle : For he that hath money may have what he will , Look what he desires his mind to fulfil , With brave entertainment and kind welcome still , 'Tis money is many men's master their master , This money , etc Whereas I had store of silver and gold , then I was respected with Gallants , But now I have none their love is grown cold , and I'm more rejected then valliants . Those that I have feasted with wine & good cheer From me stand a loft & will not come me near , Because I want means it puts me in fear . 'Tis money is many men's master their Master , 'Tis money , etc Thus lack of this money makes all men forego me , as if they ne're saw me before , But if I had money i'm sure they would know me and I should have company store : They would come unto me with tales and with lies , And many brave projects they soon would devise , But let men be careful , such are cunning spies , 'Tis money is many men's master their master , 'Tis money , etc Now I all alone may fit like and ass , while others are frollickly drinking , And freely carousing the cup and the glass , I to my self sadly am thinking , How they are in danger to fallen in the snare . Wherein I am tangled with grief & with care , Therefore I advice you such lewdness forbear , 'Tis money is many men's master their master , 'Tis money , etc This money's a servant likewise I may say , to them that do carefully use it , But it is uncertain and soon runs away , and specially if once you abuse i I mean if you wast it in drinking and pride , At Cards Dice and whores full fast it will slide , Leave off all such follies for thus I have tri'd , That money becometh my master my master , 'Tis money that now is my Master . The second part , To the same tune . LIkewise there are some to money are slaves , and do esteem it as their God , Then more that they have the more still they crave but those are most impudent bad : For money was made for to pass to and from , As for them that hoard it 'twill turn to their woe , But for my own part I did never do so . For money is now grown my master my master , 'Tis money is now grown my master . This money is grown such a conqueror , as Alexander was never greater , He gained all his credit and honour by war But money now wins it more better : There are many brave sparks march in silver & gold , That the face of a foe they did scarce e're behold , It is their great maintenance that makes them bold And these are right master's of money of money , Oh these are , etc This fine Master Money is grown such a man , that many would feign enter in it , But ner'e since those witches from Lancaster came , could I have the fortune to gain i 'Twill one day be better but certain ne're worse , If ere I get Money again in my purse , I'll lay a grey groat I'll take a better course , And seek to be a master of money of money , I feign would , etc This lack of this Money does trouble my mind , that I am full sorely tormented , I have much a do a kind Hostis to find , that will with me now be contented : Quoth she give me Money for I will not score , She says she hath chalk enough behind the door , But I must entreat her to set up some more , Till I can be , etc Now he that hath Money thouh't be but a boy , he shall be made welcome most friendly , The love of brave Gallants he soon may enjoy , and he shall be used most kindly : Theres no age nor wit no strength can prevail , 'Tis Money may do't for it is a sure bail , and he that hath it can seldom times fail , This money , etc Now thus to conclude and so end my ditty , you that have money make good use on't , For friendship is cold in Country Town & City if once you be driven to want , Therefore now be warned , for here you may see The griefs & the sorrows that now possess me , And this was all long of my bad husbandry . 'Tis money is many men's master their master , 'Tis money is now grown my master . FINIS . Printed at London for Francis Coules . 