The two Loving Sisters : Wherein the one to the other does show , How Cupid in a Dream did her woo . To a pleasant new Tune . IT was my chance not long ago , abroad as I was walking , I herd two loving Sisters , that secretly were talking ; The youngest to the eldest said , why dost thou not marry ? In faith ( quoth she ) I'll tell to thee , I mean not long to tarry . When I was fifteene years of age , then had I suitors many , But like a wanton wily wench , I would not sport with any : Till at the last , sleeping fast , Cupid came unto me , And like a Lad that had been mad , he swore that he would woo me . Then he lay down by my side , and laid his arms upon me : But I being 'twixt sleep and wake , did strive to thrust him from me . But then he so kissed me , as I was kissed never ; If he had ne're left kissing me , I should have slept for ever . Then he hug'd and tug'd me so , I could not get him from me , But I with all the strength I had , did thrust him who came on me : For Cupid like a Suitor bold , did use both time and leisure , And in the circle of his arms , enchanted me with pleasure . Then me thought the world run round , when Phoebus fell a skipping , And all the Nymphs and Goddesses , came round about to strip him , Neptune lowered , & would have poured his Ocean cup upon us , But Boreas with his blustering blast , did strive to thrust him from us . Then limping Vulcan he came in , like one that had been jealous ; Venus follow'd after him , and swore she'd blow the bellows . Mars call'd Cupid Jackanapes , and swore he would him smother ; Quoth Cupid then , did I say so , when thou didst love my Mother ? Me thought that Orphaeus with his Lute stood at my bed side playing , And Pan too with his oaten Flute , did keep his Flock from straying : And while that they did sweetly play , in such a trance they laid me , That to the pleasant Fields below , I thought they had conveyed me . Then Juno and great Jupiter , came marching with Apollo , Saturne came with Mercury , and all began to hollow : Cupid ran and hid himself , and so of joys bereft me : Then suddenly I did awake , and all these fancies left me . The second part . To the same Tune . WEll Sister , I have herd your dream , which much good does intend thee : For I think Cupid now does mean , with a husband to befriend thee ; And to entice you unto love , which you held in derision , Hath sent you this same Dream , which may be called Pleasures Vision . Then Sister , I would have thee use thy Suitors well hereafter : And though our Father he be rich , and thou his eldest Daughter , Yet I do know you are in love , for 'tis in vain to hide i Oh fie on this dissembling look , I never could abide it . Make use of time , it will away , for beauty soon decayeth , And she is out of date , they say , that until twenty stays . Then let us not be coy again , these squeamish tricks undo us , But kindly let us entertain , our Suitors when they woo us This peevishness does but prolong , our Maiden grief and sorrow ; And we are older by a day , when we do rise tomorrow : Then why should we in modesty , our own desires thus smother , Faith I do love a proper man , and so too did my Mother . Cupid is a waggish Boy , and by your dream he showed , That married couples happy be , that are with love endued ; But she that dyeth here a Maid , and coily does dissemble , Shall afterwards led Apes about , which makes my heart to tremble . Although that I do counsel you , who are my eldest Sister ; Yet if my tongue belie my heart , I wish that it may blister : For I confess , that when I first to fifteene years attained , To think that I had stayed so long , I oftentimes complained . The eldest Sister hearing this , unto her soon replied ; Good Sister , I your counsel like , which shall not be denied , For though that I have always been so coy in outward carriage , Yet being eldest , as 'tis fit , I will take place in marriage . The other Sister then replied , quoth she , though I am younger , Yet will I not in love give place , for my desires are stronger : And therefore since that both of us , against our wills have tarried , Like loving Sisters let us both , upon one day be married . Printed at London for E.B. FINIS . The two Loving Sisters : Wherein the one to the other does show , How Cupid in a Dream did her woo . To a pleasant new Tune . IT was my chance not long ago , abroad as I was walking , I herd two loving Sisters , that secretly were talking ; The youngest to the eldest said , why dost thou not marry ? In faith ( quoth she ) I'll tell to thee , I mean not long to tarry . When I was fifteene years of age , then had I suitors many , But like a wanton wily wench , I would not sport with any : Till at the last , sleeping fast , Cupid came unto me , And like a Lad that had been mad , he swore that he would woo me . Then he lay down by my side , and laid his arms upon me : But I being 'twixt sleep and wake , did strive to thrust him from me . But then he so kissed me , as I was kissed never ; If he had ne're left kissing me , I should have slept for ever . Then he hug'd and tug'd me so , I could not get him from me , But I with all the strength I had , did thrust him who came on me : For Cupid like a Suitor bold , did use both time and leisure , And in the circle of his arms , enchanted me with pleasure . Then me thought the world run round , when Phoebus fell a skipping , And all the Nymphs and Goddesses , came round about to strip him , Neptune lowered , & would have poured his Ocean cup upon us , But Boreas with his blustering blast , did strive to thrust him from us . Then limping Vulcan he came in , like one that had been jealous ; Venus follow'd after him , and swore she'd blow the bellows . Mars call'd Cupid Jackanapes , and swore he would him smother ; Quoth Cupid then , did I say so , when thou didst love my Mother ? Me thought that Orphaeus with his Lute stood at my bed side playing , And Pan too with his oaten Flute , did keep his Flock from straying : And while that they did sweetly play , in such a trance they laid me , That to the pleasant Fields below , I thought they had conveyed me . Then Juno and great Jupiter , came marching with Apollo , Saturne came with Mercury , and all began to hollow : Cupid ran and hid himself , and so of joys bereft me : Then suddenly I did awake , and all these fancies left me . The second part . To the same Tune . WEll Sister , I have herd your dream , which much good does intend thee : For I think Cupid now does mean , with a husband to befriend thee ; And to entice you unto love , which you held in derision , Hath sent you this same Dream , which may be called Pleasures Vision . Then Sister , I would have thee use thy Suitors well hereafter : And though our Father he be rich , and thou his eldest Daughter , Yet I do know you are in love , for 'tis in vain to hide i Oh fie on this dissembling look , I never could abide it . Make use of time , it will away , for beauty soon decayeth , And she is out of date , they say , that until twenty stays . Then let us not be coy again , these squeamish tricks undo us , But kindly let us entertain , our Suitors when they woo us This peevishness does but prolong , our Maiden grief and sorrow ; And we are older by a day , when we do rise tomorrow : Then why should we in modesty , our own desires thus smother , Faith I do love a proper man , and so too did my Mother . Cupid is a waggish Boy , and by your dream he showed , That married couples happy be , that are with love endued ; But she that dyeth here a Maid , and coily does dissemble , Shall afterwards led Apes about , which makes my heart to tremble . Although that I do counsel you , who are my eldest Sister ; Yet if my tongue belie my heart , I wish that it may blister : For I confess , that when I first to fifteene years attained , To think that I had stayed so long , I oftentimes complained . The eldest Sister hearing this , unto her soon replied ; Good Sister , I your counsel like , which shall not be denied , For though that I have always been so coy in outward carriage , Yet being eldest , as 'tis fit , I will take place in marriage . The other Sister then replied , quoth she , though I am younger , Yet will I not in love give place , for my desires are stronger : And therefore since that both of us , against our wills have tarried , Like loving Sisters let us both , upon one day be married . Printed at London for E.B. FINIS . 