The Poysonit Schot Give wicked vice first sen the world began Had age be age , but punishment Increased ? In earth lang sin their had be nothing than , Saif only vice and malice manifest . Bot to their days sic means God ay dressed , Again vice that virtue ay hes strevin : Thought ather uther be time hes oft oppressed , Last Justice Judge bure ay the balance evin . Sa of his pleasure it plesit him provide , Us to exerce as ship under the sail : Sum time in storm , sum time in temperate tIED To let us knaw this world is but frail . Betuir good and evil markand our travail , In evils flude not menand our nawfrage : Princes be Justice he ordanit in this vaill , Us to conduct as Pilats dois their Barge . And sa we se in Storeis as we reid , Ay to their days sum Magistrates did ring : Sum good some evil , be time as oft succeed At quhais pleasure virtue did fade [ or ] spring . The good did virtue , the wicked vice upbring Quhat plesis them the same the pepil suittis And sa we see the manners of the King Is ay the mark quhairat his subject's shuittis This part to preifue their particular lines It war to lang in vulgar veirs expresit , At length the same sen Cronickles discrives , And also experience will cause us to [ counterfeit ] nfes it . And last of all , how wicked vice In [ c ] res it Among our selves throw Mareis negligence , And how the same began to be suppr [ e ] ssi Be Murrayis mean we have experience . Quhat vice rays up revolve into your minds Quhat since , quhat shame , in his last days did reil That prudent Prince give that he tuik sum pynis That mys to mend I hope you have ane feill . Gif ocht he sought except ane common well , The gloir of God and Kings obedience : And in that cause maid Justice ay his shield , I seek na Judge bot your awin conscience . His awin estate he cairit ay to [ k ] naw , For pomp nor pride can na man say he priest , Society he sought , and kept courage law , Thinkand always that measure was ane feist . His people luifit , and cairit for the leist , For profit paust not , nor his commodity : In trouble travelli his cummer never ceist Ay to his wraik , and our utility . Thus be his prudence virtue was erectit In him the pure oppressed had relief : Throw him Idolatry and vice wes ejectit , Throw him Gods Kirk and people found relief . Throw him wes vinqueist the veildars of this grief Throw him this realm found sum stability Throw him was baneist thift , murder , & reif , Piracy puneist , and devillishe sorcery . Sa virtue sprang and vice began to faide , Oppression fled , and Justice tuik the place , His godly life all godly men may aid : Be his exemple virtue to embrace . And also his life may in ane other raze , All Princes warn hereafter to succeed : Their foes to flatter that hes ane double face , And to be war to clap ane traitors heid . Even as the man the quhilk be music plays Mistonit stringis castis not away we see , But piece and piece be sundry wrestis & says Ilk ane with uther be time causis agre . Even so that Prince thought be humility , His people win , and concord to contrake Bot as sum stringis will rather break nor be , Evin so the wicked be mercy will not make . His mercy won : bot more his mercy tint Not he , bot we , his mercy now may rew His mercy loist we won the swords dint , His mercy saifit , be murder that him slew . Suppose his mercy this bergane to us brew Yet mean I not bot men should mercy use , To penitents , quha minds not vice renew , Bot nane to sic continewis in abuse . His mercy saifit , quha mercy not deservit , His mercy did preserve the arrogan His mercy sum amangis us hes preservit , Thought they seem holy in dead that are na sanct . His mercy saifit , we were the better want , Their Serpents said to tyrant [ tO ] s walled us thrall Because sic people in time he did not daunt , But world mercy Christ suffered hun to fallen . For mortal malice , and cursed covetice , With wicked Invy commonit all in Ire : And prydefull arrogance the mother of all vice Again that Prince did cruelly conspire . His fais hearts Inflamit all in fire , His blood to seek Invyfull of his gloir : Saikles to shuit him ane harlet feit for hire , Hangman to Hary , that tratouris wes before . O bloody bouchour bastard of Balials blood Quha to this Realm had neither love nor zeill Oh tressonable tratour be tresson that thought good Murdreis the Prince preserver of this well . O sorrowful shot , thy poison did down steill , Not only him , quhom woefully thou woundi Bot pure & rich , thy vennoume hes gart feill , Of his deir death the stoundis him confoundit . That shot allace this realm hes shot in tway That shot to vice the portis hes oppinit plane , That shot hes Justice and virtue shot away , That shot Idolatry is shuitand up again . Sic shottis unpuneist give lang time they remane Vice shall be virtue , and virtue shall be vice : Wrang sal be riched and riched sal be thought vane Ilk ane unpuneist shall pleis their awin device . That shot hes sinderit quhilk was together knit That shot hes cuillit our courage as the leid That shot hes feiblit our manly force and wit , That shot our sichts hes blindit all in dead . We see and spyis not our sorrowis to succeed , We meint & meinis not this wickitnes correck We walled and will not hank thames be the heid Qhua hes preparit the swords for our nek . Vagabonds we wander in misery & woe As ship but Ruther , sa ga we now but guide : We skail we scatter we wait not where we go Spyis not the rock quhairon we rash our side We have nam grace nor power to provide , Again this rage and cruelties remeid Bot willingly allace throw arrogance & pride Offers this Realm as Sacrifice to dead . In place of peace now murder weir uprasis In place of love Invy amangis us springs , In place of Faith his friend falset betrasis In place of rest Rebellion with us ringis . In place of ane , we have so money Kings , The Crownit King gettis na obedience , Sum France for aid , & sum Ingland inbringis The ane for wrak the tother for defence . And so this Realm quhilk enemies oft sayit With cruel weir and sturdy storms fell , Quhilk feirful force of Ingland never frayit , Of France the fear , nor Spaine in just quarrel Quhilk to their days unvenqueist buir the bell Shall now allace be fatell Destiny : As Ajax wes , be vanquer of the fell , On proper knife constraynit for to die . Quhat walled allace our Kings & elders say , Give in their days from hevin that now discendit To se this Realm so dulefully decay , In quhais defence their lusty lyvis they endit . They walled I trust repent their time sa spendit They walled I wait their labours loist forthink To see their Babes the blood quhilk they defendit Again nature sa cruelly updrink . Justly this plague I doubt not we deservit Seikand the men's of our awin mischief's : Bakwart from God because we have suervit Therefore we taist his punishment in grief . Yet in his mercy haifand ay belief , Still shall I pray his divine Majesty , Again this rage to send us relief , Our King to saif and his Nobility . Lenvoye . GO bony bill deploir Of death the dolent stound , Quhilk did our Prince devoir James Regent of Renown . I pray the go , declair the woe Sen sin that dois abound , I give command , throw burgh and land , the same you gar resound . Our cair may move the stonis , And havie rocks to rair : Swa money storms at onis , Struke never land sa fair . The cause of that , the hevins what , Not I , I you declair , Except it be , to let us see , How Kingdoms are bot cair . Yet lat us not despair Into their walis of woe , God may convert our cair in pleasure and in Jo. He may discord , turn in accord , And make him friend was foe : He may I trest , set us at rest , Thought all the world say no . It sulde releve our grief , To see our King bening : In him I hope relief , Of years thought he be ying . His future age , sum great presage , Presentis us in his Ring : Quha our defence , in his nascence , Tuik hail in governing . FINIS . Imprentit at Edinburgh be Robert Lekpreuik . Anno. Do. 1570. The Poysonit Schot Give wicked vice first sen the world began Had age be age , but punishment Increased ? In earth lang sin their had be nothing than , Saif only vice and malice manifest . Bot to their days sic means God ay dressed , Again vice that virtue ay hes strevin : Thought ather uther be time hes oft oppressed , Last Justice Judge bure ay the balance evin . Sa of his pleasure it plesit him provide , Us to exerce as ship under the sail : Sum time in storm , sum time in temperate tIED To let us knaw this world is but frail . Betuir good and evil markand our travail , In evils flude not menand our nawfrage : Princes be Justice he ordanit in this vaill , Us to conduct as Pilats dois their Barge . And sa we se in Storeis as we reid , Ay to their days sum Magistrates did ring : Sum good some evil , be time as oft succeed At quhais pleasure virtue did fade [ or ] spring . The good did virtue , the wicked vice upbring Quhat plesis them the same the pepil suittis And sa we see the manners of the King Is ay the mark quhairat his subject's shuittis This part to preifue their particular lines It war to lang in vulgar veirs expresit , At length the same sen Cronickles discrives , And also experience will cause us to [ counterfeit ] nfes it . And last of all , how wicked vice In [ c ] res it Among our selves throw Mareis negligence , And how the same began to be suppr [ e ] ssi Be Murrayis mean we have experience . Quhat vice rays up revolve into your minds Quhat since , quhat shame , in his last days did reil That prudent Prince give that he tuik sum pynis That mys to mend I hope you have ane feill . Gif ocht he sought except ane common well , The gloir of God and Kings obedience : And in that cause maid Justice ay his shield , I seek na Judge bot your awin conscience . His awin estate he cairit ay to [ k ] naw , For pomp nor pride can na man say he priest , Society he sought , and kept courage law , Thinkand always that measure was ane feist . His people luifit , and cairit for the leist , For profit paust not , nor his commodity : In trouble travelli his cummer never ceist Ay to his wraik , and our utility . Thus be his prudence virtue was erectit In him the pure oppressed had relief : Throw him Idolatry and vice wes ejectit , Throw him Gods Kirk and people found relief . Throw him wes vinqueist the veildars of this grief Throw him this realm found sum stability Throw him was baneist thift , murder , & reif , Piracy puneist , and devillishe sorcery . Sa virtue sprang and vice began to faide , Oppression fled , and Justice tuik the place , His godly life all godly men may aid : Be his exemple virtue to embrace . And also his life may in ane other raze , All Princes warn hereafter to succeed : Their foes to flatter that hes ane double face , And to be war to clap ane traitors heid . Even as the man the quhilk be music plays Mistonit stringis castis not away we see , But piece and piece be sundry wrestis & says Ilk ane with uther be time causis agre . Even so that Prince thought be humility , His people win , and concord to contrake Bot as sum stringis will rather break nor be , Evin so the wicked be mercy will not make . His mercy won : bot more his mercy tint Not he , bot we , his mercy now may rew His mercy loist we won the swords dint , His mercy saifit , be murder that him slew . Suppose his mercy this bergane to us brew Yet mean I not bot men should mercy use , To penitents , quha minds not vice renew , Bot nane to sic continewis in abuse . His mercy saifit , quha mercy not deservit , His mercy did preserve the arrogan His mercy sum amangis us hes preservit , Thought they seem holy in dead that are na sanct . His mercy saifit , we were the better want , Their Serpents said to tyrant [ tO ] s walled us thrall Because sic people in time he did not daunt , But world mercy Christ suffered hun to fallen . For mortal malice , and cursed covetice , With wicked Invy commonit all in Ire : And prydefull arrogance the mother of all vice Again that Prince did cruelly conspire . His fais hearts Inflamit all in fire , His blood to seek Invyfull of his gloir : Saikles to shuit him ane harlet feit for hire , Hangman to Hary , that tratouris wes before . O bloody bouchour bastard of Balials blood Quha to this Realm had neither love nor zeill Oh tressonable tratour be tresson that thought good Murdreis the Prince preserver of this well . O sorrowful shot , thy poison did down steill , Not only him , quhom woefully thou woundi Bot pure & rich , thy vennoume hes gart feill , Of his deir death the stoundis him confoundit . That shot allace this realm hes shot in tway That shot to vice the portis hes oppinit plane , That shot hes Justice and virtue shot away , That shot Idolatry is shuitand up again . Sic shottis unpuneist give lang time they remane Vice shall be virtue , and virtue shall be vice : Wrang sal be riched and riched sal be thought vane Ilk ane unpuneist shall pleis their awin device . That shot hes sinderit quhilk was together knit That shot hes cuillit our courage as the leid That shot hes feiblit our manly force and wit , That shot our sichts hes blindit all in dead . We see and spyis not our sorrowis to succeed , We meint & meinis not this wickitnes correck We walled and will not hank thames be the heid Qhua hes preparit the swords for our nek . Vagabonds we wander in misery & woe As ship but Ruther , sa ga we now but guide : We skail we scatter we wait not where we go Spyis not the rock quhairon we rash our side We have nam grace nor power to provide , Again this rage and cruelties remeid Bot willingly allace throw arrogance & pride Offers this Realm as Sacrifice to dead . In place of peace now murder weir uprasis In place of love Invy amangis us springs , In place of Faith his friend falset betrasis In place of rest Rebellion with us ringis . In place of ane , we have so money Kings , The Crownit King gettis na obedience , Sum France for aid , & sum Ingland inbringis The ane for wrak the tother for defence . And so this Realm quhilk enemies oft sayit With cruel weir and sturdy storms fell , Quhilk feirful force of Ingland never frayit , Of France the fear , nor Spaine in just quarrel Quhilk to their days unvenqueist buir the bell Shall now allace be fatell Destiny : As Ajax wes , be vanquer of the fell , On proper knife constraynit for to die . Quhat walled allace our Kings & elders say , Give in their days from hevin that now discendit To se this Realm so dulefully decay , In quhais defence their lusty lyvis they endit . They walled I trust repent their time sa spendit They walled I wait their labours loist forthink To see their Babes the blood quhilk they defendit Again nature sa cruelly updrink . Justly this plague I doubt not we deservit Seikand the men's of our awin mischief's : Bakwart from God because we have suervit Therefore we taist his punishment in grief . Yet in his mercy haifand ay belief , Still shall I pray his divine Majesty , Again this rage to send us relief , Our King to saif and his Nobility . Lenvoye . GO bony bill deploir Of death the dolent stound , Quhilk did our Prince devoir James Regent of Renown . I pray the go , declair the woe Sen sin that dois abound , I give command , throw burgh and land , the same you gar resound . Our cair may move the stonis , And havie rocks to rair : Swa money storms at onis , Struke never land sa fair . The cause of that , the hevins what , Not I , I you declair , Except it be , to let us see , How Kingdoms are bot cair . Yet lat us not despair Into their walis of woe , God may convert our cair in pleasure and in Jo. He may discord , turn in accord , And make him friend was foe : He may I trest , set us at rest , Thought all the world say no . It sulde releve our grief , To see our King bening : In him I hope relief , Of years thought he be ying . His future age , sum great presage , Presentis us in his Ring : Quha our defence , in his nascence , Tuik hail in governing . FINIS . Imprentit at Edinburgh be Robert Lekpreuik . Anno. Do. 1570. 