Maddeis Proclamation IN lofty veirs I did reheirs , My dreary Lamentation And now allace , mayest ceirful case I make my Proclamation . Desiring all , baith great and small , That heiris me be Narration Not for to wit , my rude Ind [ y ] te : Sen maid is Intimation . I do Intend , nane to offend , That feiris God arycht , Thought murtherars , & blood sc [ h ] eddars , Walled have me out of sight . Thair malice vane , I do disd [ a ] ne , And curse their subtle flight , My name is knawin , their bru [ i ] tO is bla-win Abroad baith day and night . For I a wife with sempill life , Dois win my meit ilk day , For small avail , ay selling ca [ il ] , The best fassoun I may . Beside the Throne , I wait u [ p ] one , My mercat but delay : Give men their walk , I heir tO [ h ] air talk And beiris it well away . In felon fear , at me tO [ would ] y speir , Quhat tythands in this land Quhy fit I dum , and dar not mum ? Oft times they do demand , To thames again , I answer p [ l ] ane , Where they beside me stand Nam thing is [ h ] eir , bot mortalll weir , Wrought be ane bailfull band . A wicked raze of grumi [ , s ] but grace Of Kedyochis cursed clan , Be tressoun vile , quha dois worser [ e ] file , Thame self baith wife and man . As lait is seen , with weipin [ g ] Ene , Therefore I shall thames ban : Caus our Regent mayest Inn [ oh ] cent , That cursed said over ran . Quhat cruelties they E [ n ] emeis , Hes wrought be times past , I lat over slide , I may not [ by ] de , Sa sair I am aghast , Their anterous acts , their furious factis , Old bukis quha will over ca [ s ] tO , And men on live , can yet discr [ i ] we Their doings first and last . Therefore my Lords , as best accords Sen you are hapnit hidder , This I will say tuix sport and play My words well consider , And ponder thames for your awin shame To mark thames be not lidder : Lat na men feid , throw feirfull dreid , Your hearts make to swidder . For I heir say , they will display Their banners on the field : Thinkand but doubt , to ruit you out , Or cause you seek sum b [ eild ] At thames , right fane , or [ doubt you n ] ane , That ganyell will they yield , Stand not abak ( o ) febill pak , Bot swords leir to wield . Defend your riched , in Gods sicht Whom of doe you stand awe ? Right few I trow , will you allow , Give you your selfis misknaw . Stand to therefore , file not the scoir , Bot all together draw , Not in Cat harrowis , like cankrit mar-rowis For fear of after flaw . Do you not see that mad meney , How they are waxin crous ? To wirk you tene , they make the Queen , Their strength and strange blokhous . The murder fie , they do deny , And countis you not ane sous , Their proud pretence throw negligence Will be mayest dangerous . To Lythquo town , they are all boun Where they the murder wrought , And thinks to de , or fortify , Their felony forethocht . And truly I , can not espy , Quhat uther thing they sought , Bot King put down , & claim the Crown Be bloody murder bocht . I Pans and muse , how they excuse This murder perpetrate , Or with quhat grace haldis up their face Where it is nominate . Gif ( as I trow ) they it allow , Like Wolfis Insatiate : Quha can repent , that they be schent , With blood commaculate ? Fallen to therefore I you Imploir , My Lords with ane assent , And think it lang , ay quhill you fang , The feiris that did Invent This cruelty , be tyranny , To sla our right Regent , For they mayest sure , dois still Endure With hearts Impenitent . That man in dead , is worth sum meid His fault that dois confess , Bot quhat reward should be prepared , For him that dois transgress . And will not grant , bot rather vaunt In his unhappiness , Mayest sure the gallous , with all his fallous , For their unthankfulness . For give self love , was from abuse , Dejectit out of hevin , When Lucifer , walled be ane bar , To God and think him evin . Quhat shall we ween of tratours keen , That Ithandly hes strevin . For to deface the Noble raze , Of Stewarts odd and evin . Consider well , their cankrit zeill Hes thristit money day , For to poss but godliness , The Crown withouttin stay . As now of lait , their cursed consait , With murder they display : When they thought good , to drink this blood Be that ungodly way . Bot Sathan sure , dois thames allure With words falls and vane : Ay promising , thames to be King , Quhairof they are full fane . In Paradise he did Entice , Be subtle craft and trane , The man first maid , sa God hes said , In Sacrede Scripture plane . He said that he , should equal be , To God Omnipotent , The Appill sweit , give he walled eit , Quhairof was maid restraint . With small defence , he gaif credence Bot did he not repent ? When efterwart , he felt the smart , And God again him bent . Sa shall all they , that dois this day With mischant mind maling , Again the truth but only ruth And Crowning of our King . And this they muse for their behufe , To place their awin offspring , But they repent , they will be schent , And hell at their ending . Authority give Just he be , Quhy do they this Ill will him ? His graitfull gide , throw pevische pride Allace quhy did they kill him ? Thair heid supreme in to this Realm Admit give they not will him Than you my Lords , cut of with cords Thame will be troublous till him . Revenge this wrang , lat tratours hang Gods Laws dois sa require , Lat Caleb eik , and Josue seek , The promysit Impyre . Thought murmurars , and murtherars Walled all your death conspire : In wilderness with cursitnes , At length they will all tyre . That Campion of Babilon , That bloody beildar up : With Mytrid heid , ane homyceid , That saikles blood dois sup . Gar cow his Crown , or put him down That he may taist the Cup Quhairwith oft times , for saikles crimes Men lives he Interup . And see that never , you do dissever From first contractit band , When you our King of years ying , Maid Rewlar of this land . Lat not Invy , cause sum lie by , Bot all together stand : Than God the Lord , misericord , Will be your sure warrant . From Cail mercat , where as I sat Their words I did Indite , The wyfis among , that thought great lang To se my awin hand write . Gif only be , that will Judge me , To speak bot in despite , Gar mend thee miss , committit is , And I nam more shall flyte . FINIS . Quod Maddie . Maddeis Proclamation IN lofty veirs I did reheirs , My dreary Lamentation And now allace , mayest ceirful case I make my Proclamation . Desiring all , baith great and small , That heiris me be Narration Not for to wit , my rude Ind [ y ] te : Sen maid is Intimation . I do Intend , nane to offend , That feiris God arycht , Thought murtherars , & blood sc [ h ] eddars , Walled have me out of sight . Thair malice vane , I do disd [ a ] ne , And curse their subtle flight , My name is knawin , their bru [ i ] tO is bla-win Abroad baith day and night . For I a wife with sempill life , Dois win my meit ilk day , For small avail , ay selling ca [ il ] , The best fassoun I may . Beside the Throne , I wait u [ p ] one , My mercat but delay : Give men their walk , I heir tO [ h ] air talk And beiris it well away . In felon fear , at me tO [ would ] y speir , Quhat tythands in this land Quhy fit I dum , and dar not mum ? Oft times they do demand , To thames again , I answer p [ l ] ane , Where they beside me stand Nam thing is [ h ] eir , bot mortalll weir , Wrought be ane bailfull band . A wicked raze of grumi [ , s ] but grace Of Kedyochis cursed clan , Be tressoun vile , quha dois worser [ e ] file , Thame self baith wife and man . As lait is seen , with weipin [ g ] Ene , Therefore I shall thames ban : Caus our Regent mayest Inn [ oh ] cent , That cursed said over ran . Quhat cruelties they E [ n ] emeis , Hes wrought be times past , I lat over slide , I may not [ by ] de , Sa sair I am aghast , Their anterous acts , their furious factis , Old bukis quha will over ca [ s ] tO , And men on live , can yet discr [ i ] we Their doings first and last . Therefore my Lords , as best accords Sen you are hapnit hidder , This I will say tuix sport and play My words well consider , And ponder thames for your awin shame To mark thames be not lidder : Lat na men feid , throw feirfull dreid , Your hearts make to swidder . For I heir say , they will display Their banners on the field : Thinkand but doubt , to ruit you out , Or cause you seek sum b [ eild ] At thames , right fane , or [ doubt you n ] ane , That ganyell will they yield , Stand not abak ( o ) febill pak , Bot swords leir to wield . Defend your riched , in Gods sicht Whom of doe you stand awe ? Right few I trow , will you allow , Give you your selfis misknaw . Stand to therefore , file not the scoir , Bot all together draw , Not in Cat harrowis , like cankrit mar-rowis For fear of after flaw . Do you not see that mad meney , How they are waxin crous ? To wirk you tene , they make the Queen , Their strength and strange blokhous . The murder fie , they do deny , And countis you not ane sous , Their proud pretence throw negligence Will be mayest dangerous . To Lythquo town , they are all boun Where they the murder wrought , And thinks to de , or fortify , Their felony forethocht . And truly I , can not espy , Quhat uther thing they sought , Bot King put down , & claim the Crown Be bloody murder bocht . I Pans and muse , how they excuse This murder perpetrate , Or with quhat grace haldis up their face Where it is nominate . Gif ( as I trow ) they it allow , Like Wolfis Insatiate : Quha can repent , that they be schent , With blood commaculate ? Fallen to therefore I you Imploir , My Lords with ane assent , And think it lang , ay quhill you fang , The feiris that did Invent This cruelty , be tyranny , To sla our right Regent , For they mayest sure , dois still Endure With hearts Impenitent . That man in dead , is worth sum meid His fault that dois confess , Bot quhat reward should be prepared , For him that dois transgress . And will not grant , bot rather vaunt In his unhappiness , Mayest sure the gallous , with all his fallous , For their unthankfulness . For give self love , was from abuse , Dejectit out of hevin , When Lucifer , walled be ane bar , To God and think him evin . Quhat shall we ween of tratours keen , That Ithandly hes strevin . For to deface the Noble raze , Of Stewarts odd and evin . Consider well , their cankrit zeill Hes thristit money day , For to poss but godliness , The Crown withouttin stay . As now of lait , their cursed consait , With murder they display : When they thought good , to drink this blood Be that ungodly way . Bot Sathan sure , dois thames allure With words falls and vane : Ay promising , thames to be King , Quhairof they are full fane . In Paradise he did Entice , Be subtle craft and trane , The man first maid , sa God hes said , In Sacrede Scripture plane . He said that he , should equal be , To God Omnipotent , The Appill sweit , give he walled eit , Quhairof was maid restraint . With small defence , he gaif credence Bot did he not repent ? When efterwart , he felt the smart , And God again him bent . Sa shall all they , that dois this day With mischant mind maling , Again the truth but only ruth And Crowning of our King . And this they muse for their behufe , To place their awin offspring , But they repent , they will be schent , And hell at their ending . Authority give Just he be , Quhy do they this Ill will him ? His graitfull gide , throw pevische pride Allace quhy did they kill him ? Thair heid supreme in to this Realm Admit give they not will him Than you my Lords , cut of with cords Thame will be troublous till him . Revenge this wrang , lat tratours hang Gods Laws dois sa require , Lat Caleb eik , and Josue seek , The promysit Impyre . Thought murmurars , and murtherars Walled all your death conspire : In wilderness with cursitnes , At length they will all tyre . That Campion of Babilon , That bloody beildar up : With Mytrid heid , ane homyceid , That saikles blood dois sup . Gar cow his Crown , or put him down That he may taist the Cup Quhairwith oft times , for saikles crimes Men lives he Interup . And see that never , you do dissever From first contractit band , When you our King of years ying , Maid Rewlar of this land . Lat not Invy , cause sum lie by , Bot all together stand : Than God the Lord , misericord , Will be your sure warrant . From Cail mercat , where as I sat Their words I did Indite , The wyfis among , that thought great lang To se my awin hand write . Gif only be , that will Judge me , To speak bot in despite , Gar mend thee miss , committit is , And I nam more shall flyte . FINIS . Quod Maddie . 