The Kings Complaint WIth havie heart on Snadoun hill , Ane young King I hard scout and schill With reuthfull rair he did record : Prayand as I have writ this bill Judge and Revenge my cause Oh Lord . He says this causeless I not craif , Hor he is now gone to his graif My common well that mayest decorde , Na merwell albeit my heart claif For sorrow of his death Oh Lord . Hard is my chance all time and houris And harder to my Governouris , The hardest ( bot woe am I ford ) To him hes felt of death the schouris , And only for thy cause Oh Lord . When I was not yet ane yeir old , Bothwell that bloody Bouchour bald , My Father cruelly devorde , He him betrayit and his blood sauld , Judge and Revenge my cause Oh Lord . Than Father slain , Mother was schent My Gudschir flemit Incontinent , My self to poison it was schorde , Me to betray was summis Intent Judge and Revenge my cause Oh Lord . Than up thou rasit to reule my Ring , In to my tender years ying , My Faithful friend that maid him ford , James Regent my Uncle ding , Judge and Revenge my cause Oh Lord He was my Buckler and my beild , He was my Targe , my speir and scheild , My stait mayest high for to restored : He futtit ever more the field , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . For me he left Kin , Friend and wife , For me he suffered daily strife , For me he was hail Indevorde , For me now he hes loist his life , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . For me that Noble of Renown , With ane Tike Tratour Hammiltoun , Was schot , and throw the body board , For the mantening of my Crown Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Peloure thou peirst him , gaif you peace , Tratoure to him that gaif the grace , Behind his back thy Gun him gorde : Whom thou nor nane of thyn [ e dur ] st face , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Lord sen my gracious guide is gone , And I am left as Byrd alone , This thing mayest eirnistly I Implorde : That Instantly thou steir up one For to Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Sen for my saik now he is slain , Lord for thy grace grant me again , That death my life never devorde , Quhill that falls tressonabill trane Be with my hand Revenged Oh Lord . O Scotland thy Josias true , That first Idolatry overthrew He was , and Christs true Kirk restored , Throw him in my Realm grace ay grew , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . He Abrahamis Faith but fear professed , He Davidis mercy manifest With Salomonis wit he was decorde , Sampsonis strength to him accrest Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Thief and Rever he did daunt , Justice and virtue he did plant , Where their was mys he gart remorde , My Faithful servand and thy Sanct , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . As his Renown is all overblawin , And now his death plainly furthschawin , Sa shall all blyithnes be abhorred Quhill his Revenge be alswa knawin , Throw thy help and support Oh Lord . All you my true Nobility , That favourite him , and servit me , Lat not his duilfull death be smorde , Bot it Revenge mayest cruelly For it is the will of the Lord . And quha his death dois sair regard , And it to puneis will not spaird I wow to the in whom he glorde , That shall not mys ane rich reward For to Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Now shall appear in work and nature , Quha is the true man , quha is the trature Quha fittis the field , quha cuiris not ford , The true liege be the Rubiature In this cause sal be kenned Oh Lord . And think that they that did this dead , With like effect dois seek my heid , For to be beatin down and smorde All Faithful hearts quite their meid , And thou Revenge my cause Oh Lord . For surely their will and Intent , That seikis of me the Government , Be fraudful factiounis , I stand ford , Walled me forfault in Parliament , Give thou withstude thames not O Lord . My Coronation they deny , And dois mayest spitefully defy All thames that faithfully restored , Me to my Crown and Seignory Thy michtie hand requit thames Lord . Last Lord now him of me hes cure , And in quhais hands I think me sure , Thy puissant power I Implorde , That he with me lang days Endure For to Revenge his cause Oh Lord . With this the Babe he gifis ane rair , Quhilk maid my heart to such sa sair , That farther I could not record , Bot with him shall cry ever more , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . FINIS . The Kings Complaint WIth havie heart on Snadoun hill , Ane young King I hard scout and schill With reuthfull rair he did record : Prayand as I have writ this bill Judge and Revenge my cause Oh Lord . He says this causeless I not craif , Hor he is now gone to his graif My common well that mayest decorde , Na merwell albeit my heart claif For sorrow of his death Oh Lord . Hard is my chance all time and houris And harder to my Governouris , The hardest ( bot woe am I ford ) To him hes felt of death the schouris , And only for thy cause Oh Lord . When I was not yet ane yeir old , Bothwell that bloody Bouchour bald , My Father cruelly devorde , He him betrayit and his blood sauld , Judge and Revenge my cause Oh Lord . Than Father slain , Mother was schent My Gudschir flemit Incontinent , My self to poison it was schorde , Me to betray was summis Intent Judge and Revenge my cause Oh Lord . Than up thou rasit to reule my Ring , In to my tender years ying , My Faithful friend that maid him ford , James Regent my Uncle ding , Judge and Revenge my cause Oh Lord He was my Buckler and my beild , He was my Targe , my speir and scheild , My stait mayest high for to restored : He futtit ever more the field , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . For me he left Kin , Friend and wife , For me he suffered daily strife , For me he was hail Indevorde , For me now he hes loist his life , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . For me that Noble of Renown , With ane Tike Tratour Hammiltoun , Was schot , and throw the body board , For the mantening of my Crown Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Peloure thou peirst him , gaif you peace , Tratoure to him that gaif the grace , Behind his back thy Gun him gorde : Whom thou nor nane of thyn [ e dur ] st face , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Lord sen my gracious guide is gone , And I am left as Byrd alone , This thing mayest eirnistly I Implorde : That Instantly thou steir up one For to Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Sen for my saik now he is slain , Lord for thy grace grant me again , That death my life never devorde , Quhill that falls tressonabill trane Be with my hand Revenged Oh Lord . O Scotland thy Josias true , That first Idolatry overthrew He was , and Christs true Kirk restored , Throw him in my Realm grace ay grew , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . He Abrahamis Faith but fear professed , He Davidis mercy manifest With Salomonis wit he was decorde , Sampsonis strength to him accrest Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Thief and Rever he did daunt , Justice and virtue he did plant , Where their was mys he gart remorde , My Faithful servand and thy Sanct , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . As his Renown is all overblawin , And now his death plainly furthschawin , Sa shall all blyithnes be abhorred Quhill his Revenge be alswa knawin , Throw thy help and support Oh Lord . All you my true Nobility , That favourite him , and servit me , Lat not his duilfull death be smorde , Bot it Revenge mayest cruelly For it is the will of the Lord . And quha his death dois sair regard , And it to puneis will not spaird I wow to the in whom he glorde , That shall not mys ane rich reward For to Revenge his cause Oh Lord . Now shall appear in work and nature , Quha is the true man , quha is the trature Quha fittis the field , quha cuiris not ford , The true liege be the Rubiature In this cause sal be kenned Oh Lord . And think that they that did this dead , With like effect dois seek my heid , For to be beatin down and smorde All Faithful hearts quite their meid , And thou Revenge my cause Oh Lord . For surely their will and Intent , That seikis of me the Government , Be fraudful factiounis , I stand ford , Walled me forfault in Parliament , Give thou withstude thames not O Lord . My Coronation they deny , And dois mayest spitefully defy All thames that faithfully restored , Me to my Crown and Seignory Thy michtie hand requit thames Lord . Last Lord now him of me hes cure , And in quhais hands I think me sure , Thy puissant power I Implorde , That he with me lang days Endure For to Revenge his cause Oh Lord . With this the Babe he gifis ane rair , Quhilk maid my heart to such sa sair , That farther I could not record , Bot with him shall cry ever more , Judge and Revenge his cause Oh Lord . FINIS . 