The brave English Jipsie . To the tune of the Spanish Jpsie . COme follow , follow all , 'Tis English Jipsies call ; All you that love your lives , Heres those for profit strives . We fare well when thousands lack , None of us can credits crack . We fare well , etc If we to Gallants come , The country people run To see what we can do , Much pains they undergo : Seriously a number strives To led the English Jipsies lives . Seriously a number , etc We humour none that lives , Nor hate no man that gives , Ambition does not rest Ith' English Jipsies bres If they give , weel willing take , Nought that's good will we forsake . We use all things are quaint , With Painters we can paint ; Our die is not in vain , For we do die in grain : The Walnut tree supplies our lack , what was made fair , we can make black . We take a formal course , Some fix upon a Horse We single scorn to ride , Our horse does want no guide : We by turns will take our ease , And live all humours for to please . We scorn for to entice With beauty Gallants eyes , We bear no beauteous face , Our subtle slights to grace , We can paint when we command . And look like Indians that are tanned . We practise not to dance , Nor learn no tunes from France , Our Knackers make no noise , We are no roaring Boys ; English Jipsies all live free , And love , and live most jovially . Our fare is of the best , Three times a week we feast , Nay sometime every day , And yet for nothing pay : For , Beef or Bacon , Geese or Hens , What we eat is other men's . Sometime where great men dwell , We do there Fortune's tell , Our pains for to requite , We diet there all nigh In this life we spend our days , English Jipsies Laws obeys . The second Part. To the same tune . WE fear to wrong the Law , We live in servile awe , Yet wheresoever we go , We seldom find a foe : Wheresoever we come , we find For one that hates , and hundred kind , Pleasure we have store , Who can desire more , All does our pains requite , Then frolic we all night , Amongst our selves we dance and sing , Night content to us does bring . Whatere we get all day , That night does fly away , We hoard not up our store , For next day we have more , Feast our selves with gallant Cheer , Spare no cost for wine or beer . To drink , be drunk , and tipsy , Delights the English Jipsie : we live to love all those That are no Jipsies foes : Some decay'd amongst Gallants , strives To lead the English Jipsies lives . We bear this honest mind , To love all friends are kind Our foes we can requite , with hatred and despigh For we can plague our mortal foe , Yet he the actors never know . Great store of Coin we gain , Yet for it take no pain : Our diet's seldom sought , For it is to us brought , Pigs or Geese , or Brawn or Souse , Or any meat that's in the house . Ther's many stand in fear , when we approach but near , Sometime our very sighed The children does affrigh Our names are spread both far and near , Our friends we love , but dread no fear , We hate all surly slaves , Nor love on cunning knaves , Our selves can cunning use , Yet none we will abuse : He that freely gives , shall find The English Jipsies always kind . Who ere hath been in Spaine , And seen there Jipsies vain , Shall soon the difference find , Else judgement makes him blind : So Spanish Jipsies all adue , For English equal are to you . So Spanish Jipsies , etc FINIS . London printed for John Trundle , at his Shop near the Hospital Gate in Smithfield The brave English Jipsie . To the tune of the Spanish Jpsie . COme follow , follow all , 'Tis English Jipsies call ; All you that love your lives , Heres those for profit strives . We fare well when thousands lack , None of us can credits crack . We fare well , etc If we to Gallants come , The country people run To see what we can do , Much pains they undergo : Seriously a number strives To led the English Jipsies lives . Seriously a number , etc We humour none that lives , Nor hate no man that gives , Ambition does not rest Ith' English Jipsies bres If they give , weel willing take , Nought that's good will we forsake . We use all things are quaint , With Painters we can paint ; Our die is not in vain , For we do die in grain : The Walnut tree supplies our lack , what was made fair , we can make black . We take a formal course , Some fix upon a Horse We single scorn to ride , Our horse does want no guide : We by turns will take our ease , And live all humours for to please . We scorn for to entice With beauty Gallants eyes , We bear no beauteous face , Our subtle slights to grace , We can paint when we command . And look like Indians that are tanned . We practise not to dance , Nor learn no tunes from France , Our Knackers make no noise , We are no roaring Boys ; English Jipsies all live free , And love , and live most jovially . Our fare is of the best , Three times a week we feast , Nay sometime every day , And yet for nothing pay : For , Beef or Bacon , Geese or Hens , What we eat is other men's . Sometime where great men dwell , We do there Fortune's tell , Our pains for to requite , We diet there all nigh In this life we spend our days , English Jipsies Laws obeys . The second Part. To the same tune . WE fear to wrong the Law , We live in servile awe , Yet wheresoever we go , We seldom find a foe : Wheresoever we come , we find For one that hates , and hundred kind , Pleasure we have store , Who can desire more , All does our pains requite , Then frolic we all night , Amongst our selves we dance and sing , Night content to us does bring . Whatere we get all day , That night does fly away , We hoard not up our store , For next day we have more , Feast our selves with gallant Cheer , Spare no cost for wine or beer . To drink , be drunk , and tipsy , Delights the English Jipsie : we live to love all those That are no Jipsies foes : Some decay'd amongst Gallants , strives To lead the English Jipsies lives . We bear this honest mind , To love all friends are kind Our foes we can requite , with hatred and despigh For we can plague our mortal foe , Yet he the actors never know . Great store of Coin we gain , Yet for it take no pain : Our diet's seldom sought , For it is to us brought , Pigs or Geese , or Brawn or Souse , Or any meat that's in the house . Ther's many stand in fear , when we approach but near , Sometime our very sighed The children does affrigh Our names are spread both far and near , Our friends we love , but dread no fear , We hate all surly slaves , Nor love on cunning knaves , Our selves can cunning use , Yet none we will abuse : He that freely gives , shall find The English Jipsies always kind . Who ere hath been in Spaine , And seen there Jipsies vain , Shall soon the difference find , Else judgement makes him blind : So Spanish Jipsies all adue , For English equal are to you . So Spanish Jipsies , etc FINIS . London printed for John Trundle , at his Shop near the Hospital Gate in Smithfield 