Little John and the Four Beggars : Or , A new merry Song of Robin Hood , and little John , showing how little John went a beg - ging , and how he fought with four Beggars , and what a prize he god of the four Beg - gers . The tune is , Robin Hood , etc ALL you that delight to spend some time , with a heigh down down a down down . A merry Song to sing , Unto me draw near and you shall hear , how little John went a begging As Robin Hood walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc And all his Yeomandree , Says Robin some of you must a begging go and little John it must be thee . Says John if I must a begging go , with a heigh , etc I will have a Palmers weed , With a staff and a Coat and bags of all sorts the better then shall I speed . Come give me now a bag for my bred with a heigh , etc And another for my Cheese , And one for a penny when I get any that nothing I may lose . Now little John is a begging gone , with a heigh , etc ; Seeking for some relief , But of all the Beggars he met on the way little John was the chief . But as he was walking himself alone , with a heigh , etc Four Beggars he chanced to spy , Some deaf and some blind , and some came behind says John here's brave company . Good morrow said John my children dear , with a heigh , etc Good fortune I had you to see , Which way do you go , pray let me know for I want some company . O what is here to do then said little John , with a heigh , etc Why rings all these bells' said he ? What Dog is a hanging , come lets be ganging that we the truth may see . Here is no dog hanging then one of them said with a heigh , etc Good fellow we tell unto thee , But here is one dead will give us cheese and bred and it may be one single penny . We have brothers in London another he said with a heigh , etc So have we in the Country , In Barwick and Dover and all the world over but never a crokt Carrill like thee : THerefore stand thou back thou crooked carel with a heigh , etc And take that knock on the crown , Nay said little John i'le not be gone , for a bout will I have with you round . Now have at you all then said little John , with a heigh , etc If you be so full of your blows , Fight on all four and never give over , whither you be friends or foes . John nipped the dumb , and made him to roar , with a heigh , etc And the blind that could not see , And he that a Cripple had been seven years he made them run faster then he . And flinging them all against the wall , with a heigh , etc With many a sturdy bang , It made John sing to hear the gold ring , which against the wall cry'd twang . Then he god out of the Beggers-clock , with a heigh , etc Three hundred pound in gold , Good fortune had I then said little John , such a good sighed to behold . But what found he in a Beggars bag . with a heigh , etc But three hundred pound and three , If I drink water while this does last , then and evil death may I die . And my begging trade I now will give over , with a heigh , etc My fortune it hath been so good , Therefore I'le not stay , but I will away to the Forest of merry Sherwood . But when to the Forest of Sherwood he came with a heigh , etc He quickly there did see , His Master Good bold Robin Hood , and all his company . What news what news then said Robin , Hood ? with a heigh , etc Come little John tell unto me , How hast thou sped with the Beggars trade , for that I fain would see . No news but good then said little John , with a heigh , etc With begging full well I have sped , Six hundred and three I have here for thee in silver and gold so read . Then Robin Hood took little John by the hand , with a heigh , etc And danced about the Oke-tree , If we drink water while this does last , then and ill death may we die . So to conclude my merry new Song , with a heigh , etc And you that delight to sing , 'Tis of Robin Hood that Archer good , and how little John went a Begging . London . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . Little John and the Four Beggars : Or , A new merry Song of Robin Hood , and little John , showing how little John went a beg - ging , and how he fought with four Beggars , and what a prize he god of the four Beg - gers . The tune is , Robin Hood , etc ALL you that delight to spend some time , with a heigh down down a down down . A merry Song to sing , Unto me draw near and you shall hear , how little John went a begging As Robin Hood walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc And all his Yeomandree , Says Robin some of you must a begging go and little John it must be thee . Says John if I must a begging go , with a heigh , etc I will have a Palmers weed , With a staff and a Coat and bags of all sorts the better then shall I speed . Come give me now a bag for my bred with a heigh , etc And another for my Cheese , And one for a penny when I get any that nothing I may lose . Now little John is a begging gone , with a heigh , etc ; Seeking for some relief , But of all the Beggars he met on the way little John was the chief . But as he was walking himself alone , with a heigh , etc Four Beggars he chanced to spy , Some deaf and some blind , and some came behind says John here's brave company . Good morrow said John my children dear , with a heigh , etc Good fortune I had you to see , Which way do you go , pray let me know for I want some company . O what is here to do then said little John , with a heigh , etc Why rings all these bells' said he ? What Dog is a hanging , come lets be ganging that we the truth may see . Here is no dog hanging then one of them said with a heigh , etc Good fellow we tell unto thee , But here is one dead will give us cheese and bred and it may be one single penny . We have brothers in London another he said with a heigh , etc So have we in the Country , In Barwick and Dover and all the world over but never a crokt Carrill like thee : THerefore stand thou back thou crooked carel with a heigh , etc And take that knock on the crown , Nay said little John i'le not be gone , for a bout will I have with you round . Now have at you all then said little John , with a heigh , etc If you be so full of your blows , Fight on all four and never give over , whither you be friends or foes . John nipped the dumb , and made him to roar , with a heigh , etc And the blind that could not see , And he that a Cripple had been seven years he made them run faster then he . And flinging them all against the wall , with a heigh , etc With many a sturdy bang , It made John sing to hear the gold ring , which against the wall cry'd twang . Then he god out of the Beggers-clock , with a heigh , etc Three hundred pound in gold , Good fortune had I then said little John , such a good sighed to behold . But what found he in a Beggars bag . with a heigh , etc But three hundred pound and three , If I drink water while this does last , then and evil death may I die . And my begging trade I now will give over , with a heigh , etc My fortune it hath been so good , Therefore I'le not stay , but I will away to the Forest of merry Sherwood . But when to the Forest of Sherwood he came with a heigh , etc He quickly there did see , His Master Good bold Robin Hood , and all his company . What news what news then said Robin , Hood ? with a heigh , etc Come little John tell unto me , How hast thou sped with the Beggars trade , for that I fain would see . No news but good then said little John , with a heigh , etc With begging full well I have sped , Six hundred and three I have here for thee in silver and gold so read . Then Robin Hood took little John by the hand , with a heigh , etc And danced about the Oke-tree , If we drink water while this does last , then and ill death may we die . So to conclude my merry new Song , with a heigh , etc And you that delight to sing , 'Tis of Robin Hood that Archer good , and how little John went a Begging . London . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 