A New Song to drive away cold Winter , Between Robin Hood and the Jovial Tinker . How Robin by a wile , the Tinker he did cheat , But at the length , as you shall hear , the Tinker did him bea Where by the same , they did then agree , And after liv'd in love and unity . The Tune is , In Summer time . IN summer time when leaves grow green , down , a down , a down ; And Birds singing on every Tree , heigh down , down a down , Robin Hood went to Nottingham , down a , down a , down , As fast as he could dree , heigh down a , down a , down . And as he came to Nottingham , a Tinker he did me And seeing him a lusty Blade , he did him kindly greet . Where dost thou live , quod Robin Hood , I pray thee now me tell , Sad News I hear there is abroad , I fear all is not well . What is that news , the Tinker said , tell me without delay : I am a Tinker by my Trade , and do live at Banburay . As for the news , quoth Robin Hood , it is but as I hear , Two Tinkers they were set i'th Stocks , for drinking Ale and Beer . If that be all , the Tinker said , as I may say to you , Your news it is not worth a Fart , since that they all be true . For drinking of good Ale and Beer , you will not loose your par No by my faith , quoth Robin Hood , I love it with all my heart . What news abroad , quoth Robin Hood , tell me what thou dost hear : Being thou goest from town to town , some news thou need not fear . All the news , the Tinker said , I hear , it is for good : It is to seek a bold Outlaw , which they call Robin Hood . I have a Warrant from the King , to take him where I can , If you can tell me where he is , I will make you a Man. The King would give and hundred pound , that he could but him see : And if we can but now him get , it will serve you and me . Let me see that Warrant , said Robin Hood , I'le see if it be right , And I will do the best I can , for to take him this night . That will I not , the Tinker said , none with it I will trust , And where he is , if you'l not tell , take him by force I must . But Robin Hood perceiving well , down , a down , a down , How then the game would go , heigh down , a down , a down , If you will go to Nottingham , down , a down , a down , We shall find him I know , hey down , a down , a down . The Second Part , To the same Tune . THe Tinker had a Crabtree staff , down , a down , a down , Which was both good and strong , heigh down , a down , a down , Robin he had a good strong Blade , down , a down , a down , So they went both along , heigh down , a down , a down . And when they came to Nottingham , then they both took and Inn , And there they call'd for Ale and Wine , to drink it was no since . But Ale and Wine they drank so fast , that the Tinker he forgotten , What thing he was about to do , it fell so to his lot . That while the Tinker fell asleep , he made then haste away , And left the Tinker in the lurch , for the great shot to pay . But when the Tinker wakened , and saw that he was gone : He called then even for his Host , and thus he made his moan . I had a Warrant from the King , which might have done me good , That is to seek a bold Outlaw , some call him Robin Hood . But now my Warrant and money's gone , nothing I have to pay : And he that promis'd to be my friend , he is gone and fled away . That Friend you tell on , said his Host , they call him Robin Hood , And when that first he met with you , he meant you little good . Had I known it had been he , when that I had him here : Th'one of us should have try'd our strength which should have paid full dear . In the mean time I was away , no longer here I'le bide : But I will go and seek him out , whatever do betide . But one thing I would gladly know , what here I have to pay : Ten shillings just , then said the Host , I'le pay without delay . Or else take here my working-bag , and my good Hammer too : And if I light but on that Knave , I will then soon pay you . The only way , then said the Host , and not to stand in fear : Is to seek him among the Parks , killing of the King's Deer . The Tinker he then went with speed , and made then no delay : Till he had then found Robin Hood , that they might have a fray . At last he spy'd him in a Park , hunting then of the Deer : What Knave is that , quoth Robin Hood , that does come me so near . No Knave , no Knave , the Tinker said , and that you soon shall know , Whither of us hath done most wrong , my Crabtree staff shall show . Then Robin drew his gallant Blade , made then of trusty steel : But the Tinker he laid on so fast , that he made Robin reel . Then Robins anger did arise , he Fought full manfully : Until he had made the Tinker , almost then fit to fly . With that they had a bout again , they ply'd their Weapons fas The Tinker threshed his bones so soar , that he made him yield at last . A boon , a boon , Robin he cries , if thou wilt grant it me : Before I do it the Tinker said , I'le hang thee on this Tree . But the Tinker looking him about , Robin his Horn did blow , Then came unto him Little John , and Will Scadlock too . What is the matter , quoth Little John , you fit in the Highway side ? Here is a Tinker that stands by , that hath paid well my hide . That Tinker , then said little John , fain that Blade I would see , And I would try what I could do , if he'l do as much for me . But Robin he then wished them both , they would the quarrel cease , That henceforth we may live as one , and ever live in peace . And for the jovial Tinkers part , a hundred pound I'le give , In th' Year to maintain him on , as long as he does live . In Manhood he is a mettle-man , and a mettle-man by Trade , I never thought that any man , should have made me so afraid . And if he will be one with us , we will take all one fare : And whatsoever we do get , he shall have his full share . So the Tinker was content , down , a down , a down , With them to go along : heigh down , a down , a down , And with them a part to take , down , a down , a down , And so I end my Song , hey down , a down , a down . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A New Song to drive away cold Winter , Between Robin Hood and the Jovial Tinker . How Robin by a wile , the Tinker he did cheat , But at the length , as you shall hear , the Tinker did him bea Where by the same , they did then agree , And after liv'd in love and unity . The Tune is , In Summer time . IN summer time when leaves grow green , down , a down , a down ; And Birds singing on every Tree , heigh down , down a down , Robin Hood went to Nottingham , down a , down a , down , As fast as he could dree , heigh down a , down a , down . And as he came to Nottingham , a Tinker he did me And seeing him a lusty Blade , he did him kindly greet . Where dost thou live , quod Robin Hood , I pray thee now me tell , Sad News I hear there is abroad , I fear all is not well . What is that news , the Tinker said , tell me without delay : I am a Tinker by my Trade , and do live at Banburay . As for the news , quoth Robin Hood , it is but as I hear , Two Tinkers they were set i'th Stocks , for drinking Ale and Beer . If that be all , the Tinker said , as I may say to you , Your news it is not worth a Fart , since that they all be true . For drinking of good Ale and Beer , you will not loose your par No by my faith , quoth Robin Hood , I love it with all my heart . What news abroad , quoth Robin Hood , tell me what thou dost hear : Being thou goest from town to town , some news thou need not fear . All the news , the Tinker said , I hear , it is for good : It is to seek a bold Outlaw , which they call Robin Hood . I have a Warrant from the King , to take him where I can , If you can tell me where he is , I will make you a Man. The King would give and hundred pound , that he could but him see : And if we can but now him get , it will serve you and me . Let me see that Warrant , said Robin Hood , I'le see if it be right , And I will do the best I can , for to take him this night . That will I not , the Tinker said , none with it I will trust , And where he is , if you'l not tell , take him by force I must . But Robin Hood perceiving well , down , a down , a down , How then the game would go , heigh down , a down , a down , If you will go to Nottingham , down , a down , a down , We shall find him I know , hey down , a down , a down . The Second Part , To the same Tune . THe Tinker had a Crabtree staff , down , a down , a down , Which was both good and strong , heigh down , a down , a down , Robin he had a good strong Blade , down , a down , a down , So they went both along , heigh down , a down , a down . And when they came to Nottingham , then they both took and Inn , And there they call'd for Ale and Wine , to drink it was no since . But Ale and Wine they drank so fast , that the Tinker he forgotten , What thing he was about to do , it fell so to his lot . That while the Tinker fell asleep , he made then haste away , And left the Tinker in the lurch , for the great shot to pay . But when the Tinker wakened , and saw that he was gone : He called then even for his Host , and thus he made his moan . I had a Warrant from the King , which might have done me good , That is to seek a bold Outlaw , some call him Robin Hood . But now my Warrant and money's gone , nothing I have to pay : And he that promis'd to be my friend , he is gone and fled away . That Friend you tell on , said his Host , they call him Robin Hood , And when that first he met with you , he meant you little good . Had I known it had been he , when that I had him here : Th'one of us should have try'd our strength which should have paid full dear . In the mean time I was away , no longer here I'le bide : But I will go and seek him out , whatever do betide . But one thing I would gladly know , what here I have to pay : Ten shillings just , then said the Host , I'le pay without delay . Or else take here my working-bag , and my good Hammer too : And if I light but on that Knave , I will then soon pay you . The only way , then said the Host , and not to stand in fear : Is to seek him among the Parks , killing of the King's Deer . The Tinker he then went with speed , and made then no delay : Till he had then found Robin Hood , that they might have a fray . At last he spy'd him in a Park , hunting then of the Deer : What Knave is that , quoth Robin Hood , that does come me so near . No Knave , no Knave , the Tinker said , and that you soon shall know , Whither of us hath done most wrong , my Crabtree staff shall show . Then Robin drew his gallant Blade , made then of trusty steel : But the Tinker he laid on so fast , that he made Robin reel . Then Robins anger did arise , he Fought full manfully : Until he had made the Tinker , almost then fit to fly . With that they had a bout again , they ply'd their Weapons fas The Tinker threshed his bones so soar , that he made him yield at last . A boon , a boon , Robin he cries , if thou wilt grant it me : Before I do it the Tinker said , I'le hang thee on this Tree . But the Tinker looking him about , Robin his Horn did blow , Then came unto him Little John , and Will Scadlock too . What is the matter , quoth Little John , you fit in the Highway side ? Here is a Tinker that stands by , that hath paid well my hide . That Tinker , then said little John , fain that Blade I would see , And I would try what I could do , if he'l do as much for me . But Robin he then wished them both , they would the quarrel cease , That henceforth we may live as one , and ever live in peace . And for the jovial Tinkers part , a hundred pound I'le give , In th' Year to maintain him on , as long as he does live . In Manhood he is a mettle-man , and a mettle-man by Trade , I never thought that any man , should have made me so afraid . And if he will be one with us , we will take all one fare : And whatsoever we do get , he shall have his full share . So the Tinker was content , down , a down , a down , With them to go along : heigh down , a down , a down , And with them a part to take , down , a down , a down , And so I end my Song , hey down , a down , a down . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 