THE Plotter Executed : OR , The Examination , Trial , Condemn - nation , and Execution , of Edward Coleman Esquire . Who was Convicted of High Treason , the 27th . day of November , at the King-Bench-Barr at West - minster , for Plotting against the Life of his most Sacred Majesty , and for Endeavouring to subvert the Government , and the true Protestant Religion Establish he received Sentence the 28th . day of November 1678. to be Drawn Hang'd , and Quartered , and was Executed at Tyburn the 3d. of December : With his Last Speech and Confession , made by him at the place of Execution . To the Tune of , Captain Digby , or , Packington's Pound . Death being forc'd to come before his hour , Brings with him TIME , by his strong Might and Power , To warn all Papists , ne'r more to conspire , For if they do , Jack Catch will pay their Hire ; When as he Catches them by'th Neck with Rope , He needs no Butter , as they say , nor Sope. FOrbear your vile Plotting , all you that design To escape Gods Vengeance , Repent you in time , Remember ! that Princes his Vicegerents are , Inroaled in Heaven , the chief of his care : No Whispers in secret , but what are Reveal'd , From God there is nothing that can be conceal'd : In vain are your Plots , when his Mercy says nay , 'tis your selves you Ensnare , you yourselves are the prey . 'Tis of Coleman I sing , who once was of Fame , And good Reputation , but now to his shame , Foul Treason has sullied his Nobler parts , And brought him to ruin , tho' just his deserts : 'Twas Popish Infection to Ruin the State , That wrought his Confusion , and hastened his Fate : Such Desperate malice his Prince to Betray , But in vain are men's plotings , if heaven Gainsay Her Highnesses Servant he lived some Years , Till Romes Triple Tyrant had Buz'd in his Ear , To Ruin a Kingdom , or Murder his King , For which he'd be Sainted : no sooner , this Sting Had Poyson'd his Loyalty , but he begins To start from Allegiance , and scruples not sins : But let all beware how their King they Betray , For Vengeance on Traitors redoubl'd will pay The second Part , to the same Tune : BY Letters from Rome , from France , and from Spain , He suck'd in the Treason , and vents it again ; To give them Intelligence how Affairs stood , And when he Expected to Write to 'um In Blood : Thus Bent on Destruction , ne'r Question'd to 'ave speed , But Heaven Fore-shew'd what hung over our Heads : In mercy preserved us , therefore we may say , In vain is their malice , if he but say nay . By Secular Pow'r , in the Midst of His Pride , He's taken , and safely to Newgate convey'd , From whence to his Trial in Westminster-hall , That Great Seat of Justice , who when they did call , Most Proudly Reply'd , but his Jury brought In , He GUILTY OF TREASON CONSPIRED had been : Subversion and Murder intended , but stay , In vain you Conspire , if Jehovah gainsay . But time being spent , they thee Sentence Defer , And He the Next morning was brought to the Bar , Where the Judge did declare the Gracious Intent Of a King made of Mercy , if he would Recant , And make true Confession , a Pardon they tender , Signed and Sealed by our Faiths Defender : What monstrous Villain on mercy cou'd prey , Or think to destroy it , when heaven said nay ? O wondrous goodness ! sure Room must confess Her Elfs find more favour then she wou'd grant us : But this grace made no impress in's obstinate breast , He scorn'd at pure mercy , and tearm'd it a jes But then the dread sentence pronounc'd he should go To the place whence he came , & from thence in full show To all the Spectators , be Drawn on his way , ( A reward fit for Villains that Kingdoms betray . ) To the place of Destruction t'encounter grim death , And there by a Cord to resign half his breath : His Bowels rip'd out , in the flames to be cast , His Members dissever'd on Poles to be plac'd : A sighed full of horror , but yet it's most just That they shou'd first bleed , that after blood thirs You merciless Jesuites who precepts convey , To Kill , Burn and Ravish , beware the great day . Short time after sentence strong guarded he came , To receive the reward of his Treason and shame : Where black guilt in his face no question did stare , But with strong resolution he stifled his fear : But his conscience awaken'd , remorse did prevail , And then to this purpose his sins did bewail : Good people take warning , and do not delay , When mercy is offer'd , nor cast it away . I might have had pardon , but now 'tis too late , For then I was obstinate , scorning my fate : But death now's too dreadful , my crimes to augment , Whereof i've been guilty , of which I repent , Entreating my Saviour in mercy to save , And of those that i've wrong'd , forgiveness I crave : And for my good King I most heartily pray , That God wou'd protect him the nations obey . And let all Conspirers who seek to dethrone A King from his right , and make Nations to groan : With cruel destruction take warning by me , And not seek their own ruins when they may live free , Nor let the proud Prelate of Room nor his Train , Tlose Engines of mischief , whose Warrants are vain : The firebrands of hell , who draw Subjects away , To plot against Princes when heaven says nay . FINIS . With Allowance . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate ; in West-smith-field . THE Plotter Executed : OR , The Examination , Trial , Condemn - nation , and Execution , of Edward Coleman Esquire . Who was Convicted of High Treason , the 27th . day of November , at the King-Bench-Barr at West - minster , for Plotting against the Life of his most Sacred Majesty , and for Endeavouring to subvert the Government , and the true Protestant Religion Establish he received Sentence the 28th . day of November 1678. to be Drawn Hang'd , and Quartered , and was Executed at Tyburn the 3d. of December : With his Last Speech and Confession , made by him at the place of Execution . To the Tune of , Captain Digby , or , Packington's Pound . Death being forc'd to come before his hour , Brings with him TIME , by his strong Might and Power , To warn all Papists , ne'r more to conspire , For if they do , Jack Catch will pay their Hire ; When as he Catches them by'th Neck with Rope , He needs no Butter , as they say , nor Sope. FOrbear your vile Plotting , all you that design To escape Gods Vengeance , Repent you in time , Remember ! that Princes his Vicegerents are , Inroaled in Heaven , the chief of his care : No Whispers in secret , but what are Reveal'd , From God there is nothing that can be conceal'd : In vain are your Plots , when his Mercy says nay , 'tis your selves you Ensnare , you yourselves are the prey . 'Tis of Coleman I sing , who once was of Fame , And good Reputation , but now to his shame , Foul Treason has sullied his Nobler parts , And brought him to ruin , tho' just his deserts : 'Twas Popish Infection to Ruin the State , That wrought his Confusion , and hastened his Fate : Such Desperate malice his Prince to Betray , But in vain are men's plotings , if heaven Gainsay Her Highnesses Servant he lived some Years , Till Romes Triple Tyrant had Buz'd in his Ear , To Ruin a Kingdom , or Murder his King , For which he'd be Sainted : no sooner , this Sting Had Poyson'd his Loyalty , but he begins To start from Allegiance , and scruples not sins : But let all beware how their King they Betray , For Vengeance on Traitors redoubl'd will pay The second Part , to the same Tune : BY Letters from Rome , from France , and from Spain , He suck'd in the Treason , and vents it again ; To give them Intelligence how Affairs stood , And when he Expected to Write to 'um In Blood : Thus Bent on Destruction , ne'r Question'd to 'ave speed , But Heaven Fore-shew'd what hung over our Heads : In mercy preserved us , therefore we may say , In vain is their malice , if he but say nay . By Secular Pow'r , in the Midst of His Pride , He's taken , and safely to Newgate convey'd , From whence to his Trial in Westminster-hall , That Great Seat of Justice , who when they did call , Most Proudly Reply'd , but his Jury brought In , He GUILTY OF TREASON CONSPIRED had been : Subversion and Murder intended , but stay , In vain you Conspire , if Jehovah gainsay . But time being spent , they thee Sentence Defer , And He the Next morning was brought to the Bar , Where the Judge did declare the Gracious Intent Of a King made of Mercy , if he would Recant , And make true Confession , a Pardon they tender , Signed and Sealed by our Faiths Defender : What monstrous Villain on mercy cou'd prey , Or think to destroy it , when heaven said nay ? O wondrous goodness ! sure Room must confess Her Elfs find more favour then she wou'd grant us : But this grace made no impress in's obstinate breast , He scorn'd at pure mercy , and tearm'd it a jes But then the dread sentence pronounc'd he should go To the place whence he came , & from thence in full show To all the Spectators , be Drawn on his way , ( A reward fit for Villains that Kingdoms betray . ) To the place of Destruction t'encounter grim death , And there by a Cord to resign half his breath : His Bowels rip'd out , in the flames to be cast , His Members dissever'd on Poles to be plac'd : A sighed full of horror , but yet it's most just That they shou'd first bleed , that after blood thirs You merciless Jesuites who precepts convey , To Kill , Burn and Ravish , beware the great day . Short time after sentence strong guarded he came , To receive the reward of his Treason and shame : Where black guilt in his face no question did stare , But with strong resolution he stifled his fear : But his conscience awaken'd , remorse did prevail , And then to this purpose his sins did bewail : Good people take warning , and do not delay , When mercy is offer'd , nor cast it away . I might have had pardon , but now 'tis too late , For then I was obstinate , scorning my fate : But death now's too dreadful , my crimes to augment , Whereof i've been guilty , of which I repent , Entreating my Saviour in mercy to save , And of those that i've wrong'd , forgiveness I crave : And for my good King I most heartily pray , That God wou'd protect him the nations obey . And let all Conspirers who seek to dethrone A King from his right , and make Nations to groan : With cruel destruction take warning by me , And not seek their own ruins when they may live free , Nor let the proud Prelate of Room nor his Train , Tlose Engines of mischief , whose Warrants are vain : The firebrands of hell , who draw Subjects away , To plot against Princes when heaven says nay . FINIS . With Allowance . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate ; in West-smith-field . 