A New Ditty , showing the Woned [ erful Mira ] cles of our Lord Jesus Christ , which he did while he remai [ ned on E ] arth . The Tune is , Triumph and joy . WHen Jesus Christ was 12 years old , As Holy Scriptures plainly told , He then disputed brave and bold , among the learned Doctors : Who wondered greatly at his wit , As in the Temple he did fit , For no man might compare with it , his wisdom was so Heavenly . Then praise the Lo [ r ] worser both high and low , Which all these wondrous works does show , That we to heaven at length may go , where he in glory reigneth . At thirty hears he then began , To preach the Gospel unto man , And all Judea wondered then , to hear his Heavenly Doctrine . Such works he did as made them muse , Among the proud hardhearted Jews : Yet nevermore they did refuse , to take him for their Saviour . Then praise , etc For first of all by power Divine , He changed water into wine , When at the marriage he did dine , which made the people wonder : Moreover with seven Loaves of bred , Seven thousand men he fully fed , Which was a wonder great indeed , throughout the Land of Jury . Then praise , etc And by his glorious power and might , Unto the blind he gave their sighed ; For which the Jews boar him a spite , who sought for to destroy him . The man who was both deaf and dumb , which never herd nor spoke with tongue By Christ was herd when he did come , whose praise he then pronounced . Then praise , etc The woman that was grieved soar , With and issue of blood 12 years and more , Unto her health he did restore , in a minute of and hour . The captains man that sick did lie , Our Saviour healed presently , Although he never came him nigh , his word alone did help him . Then praise , etc Likewise he heal [ ' ] worser the Leapers ten Whose bodies were most filthy then , Yet none but one did come again him humble thanks to render . And he that sick of the Paulsie lay , With shaking joints many a day , The Lord to heal him did not stay , but straight his will fulfilled . Then praise , etc To halt and lame that could not go , But still remained in great woe , Our Saviour Christ did pity show , and made him whole and lusty . The man that with Devils possessed ; And never liv'd in peace or rest , By Christ his word at length was blessed , and they were clean cast from him . Then praise , etc The widows Son that sick did lie , when Christ our Saviour came him nigh He raised to life immediately , unto her joy and comfort . When Mary & Martha made great moan , Because their brother was dead & gone , Our Lord put him in life alone , and he from grave came running . Then praise , etc And more his Heavenly might did show , Upon the Seas himself did go , And never none could yet do so , but only Christ our Saviour . And when the soldiers with great might Did look to take him in the night , They were not able to stand in fight , till he the same permitted . Then praise , etc But yet for all these wonders great , The Jews were in a raging heat , Whom no persuasions could entreat , but cruelly did kill him . And when he left his life so good , The Moon was turned into blood , The earth and Temple shaking stood , and graves full wide did open . Then praise , etc Then some of them that stood thereby , With voice aloud began to cry , This was the Son of God truly , without all kind of doubting : And as they said it proved plain , For in three days he rose again , Although he suffered bitter pain , both heaven and hell he conquered . Then praise , etc And after that ascended he , To Heaven in glorious Majesty , With whom God send us all to be , for evermore rejoicing . Then praise the Lord both high and low , Which all these wondrous works does show ; That we to heaven at length may go , [ where h ] e in glory reigneth . A New Ditty , showing the Woned [ erful Mira ] cles of our Lord Jesus Christ , which he did while he remai [ ned on E ] arth . The Tune is , Triumph and joy . WHen Jesus Christ was 12 years old , As Holy Scriptures plainly told , He then disputed brave and bold , among the learned Doctors : Who wondered greatly at his wit , As in the Temple he did fit , For no man might compare with it , his wisdom was so Heavenly . Then praise the Lo [ r ] worser both high and low , Which all these wondrous works does show , That we to heaven at length may go , where he in glory reigneth . At thirty hears he then began , To preach the Gospel unto man , And all Judea wondered then , to hear his Heavenly Doctrine . Such works he did as made them muse , Among the proud hardhearted Jews : Yet nevermore they did refuse , to take him for their Saviour . Then praise , etc For first of all by power Divine , He changed water into wine , When at the marriage he did dine , which made the people wonder : Moreover with seven Loaves of bred , Seven thousand men he fully fed , Which was a wonder great indeed , throughout the Land of Jury . Then praise , etc And by his glorious power and might , Unto the blind he gave their sighed ; For which the Jews boar him a spite , who sought for to destroy him . The man who was both deaf and dumb , which never herd nor spoke with tongue By Christ was herd when he did come , whose praise he then pronounced . Then praise , etc The woman that was grieved soar , With and issue of blood 12 years and more , Unto her health he did restore , in a minute of and hour . The captains man that sick did lie , Our Saviour healed presently , Although he never came him nigh , his word alone did help him . Then praise , etc Likewise he heal [ ' ] worser the Leapers ten Whose bodies were most filthy then , Yet none but one did come again him humble thanks to render . And he that sick of the Paulsie lay , With shaking joints many a day , The Lord to heal him did not stay , but straight his will fulfilled . Then praise , etc To halt and lame that could not go , But still remained in great woe , Our Saviour Christ did pity show , and made him whole and lusty . The man that with Devils possessed ; And never liv'd in peace or rest , By Christ his word at length was blessed , and they were clean cast from him . Then praise , etc The widows Son that sick did lie , when Christ our Saviour came him nigh He raised to life immediately , unto her joy and comfort . When Mary & Martha made great moan , Because their brother was dead & gone , Our Lord put him in life alone , and he from grave came running . Then praise , etc And more his Heavenly might did show , Upon the Seas himself did go , And never none could yet do so , but only Christ our Saviour . And when the soldiers with great might Did look to take him in the night , They were not able to stand in fight , till he the same permitted . Then praise , etc But yet for all these wonders great , The Jews were in a raging heat , Whom no persuasions could entreat , but cruelly did kill him . And when he left his life so good , The Moon was turned into blood , The earth and Temple shaking stood , and graves full wide did open . Then praise , etc Then some of them that stood thereby , With voice aloud began to cry , This was the Son of God truly , without all kind of doubting : And as they said it proved plain , For in three days he rose again , Although he suffered bitter pain , both heaven and hell he conquered . Then praise , etc And after that ascended he , To Heaven in glorious Majesty , With whom God send us all to be , for evermore rejoicing . Then praise the Lord both high and low , Which all these wondrous works does show ; That we to heaven at length may go , [ where h ] e in glory reigneth . 