The Noble Acts Newly found , Of Arthur of the Table Round . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . WHen Arthur first in Court began , and was approved King , By force of Arms great Victories wone , and conquest home did bring , Then into Brittain straight he came , where fifty stout and able Knights , then repaired unto him which were of the round Table . And many Jousts and Tournaments before him their were pressed , Wherein these Knights did then excel , and far surmount the res But one Sir Lancelot du Lake , who was approved well , He in his fights and deeds of Arms , all others did excel . When he had rested him a while , to Play , and Game , and Sport , He thought he would approve himself in some adventurous sor He armed road in Forest wide , and met a Damsel fair , Who told him of adventures great , whereto he gave good ear . Why should I not ( quoth Lancelot though ) for that cause came I hither : Thou seem'st , quod she , a Knight right good , and I will bring thee thither . Whereas the mightiest Knight does dwell , that now is of great fame : Wherefore tell me what Knight thou art and then what is thy name . My name is Lancelot du Lake : quoth she , it likes me then : Here dwells a Knight that never was o're matched of any man , Who hath in Prison threescore Knights , and some that he hath bound . Knights of King Arthurs Court they be , and of the Table round . She brought him to a River then and also to a Tree , Whereas a Copper Bason hung , his fellows shields to see : He struck so hard the Basin broke , when Tarquin herd the found , He drove a horse before him straight , whereon a Knight was bound . Sir Knight ( then said Sir Lancelot ) bring me that horseload hither , And lay him down and let him rest , we'l try our force together : For as I understand thou hast , as far as thou art able , Done great despite and shame unto the Knights of the round Table . If thou art of the Table round , quoth Tarquin speedily , Both thee and all thy fellowship I utterly defy . That's overmuch , quoth Lancelot though , defend thee by and by , They put their Spurs unto their Steeds , and each at other fly ; They couch their Spears , and Horses run , as though they had been thunder , And each struck then upon the Shield , wherewith they brake asunder , Their Horses backs brake under them , the Knights were both astoned , To void their Horses they made haste , to light upon the ground : They took them to their shields full fast , their swords they drew out then , With mighty strokes most eagerly each one at other ran : They wounded were , and bled full soar , for breath they both did stand , And leaning on their Swords a while , quoth Tarquin hold thy hand , And tell to me what I shall ask : Say on , quoth Lancelot though , Thou art , quoth Tarquin , the best Knight that ever I did know ; And like a Knight that I did hate , so that thou be not he , I will deliver all the rest , and eke accord with thee . That is well said , quoth Lancelot then , but sith it so must be , What is that Knight thou hatest so , I pray thee show to me ? His name is Sir Lancelot du Lake , he slew my brother dear , Him I suspect of all the rest , I would I had him here . Thy wish thou hast , but now unknown , I am Lancelot du Lake , Now Knight of Arthurs Table round , Kings Hands Son of Benwake ; And I defy thee , do thy worst , Would , would , quoth Tarquin though , One of us two shall end their lives before that we do go . If thou be Lancelot du Lake , then welcome shalt thou be , Wherefore see thou thy self defend for now I thee defy . They hurled then together fast , like two wild Boars so rashing , And with their Swords and Shields they ran at one another slashing : The ground besprinkled was with blood Tarquin began to faint , For he had hacked and boar his Shield so low he did repent ; That soon espied Sir Lancelot though , he leapt upon him then , He pull'd him down upon his knee , and rushed off his Helm ; And then he struck his neck in two , and when he had done so , From Prison threescore Knights and four , Lancelot delivered though . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Noble Acts Newly found , Of Arthur of the Table Round . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . WHen Arthur first in Court began , and was approved King , By force of Arms great Victories wone , and conquest home did bring , Then into Brittain straight he came , where fifty stout and able Knights , then repaired unto him which were of the round Table . And many Jousts and Tournaments before him their were pressed , Wherein these Knights did then excel , and far surmount the res But one Sir Lancelot du Lake , who was approved well , He in his fights and deeds of Arms , all others did excel . When he had rested him a while , to Play , and Game , and Sport , He thought he would approve himself in some adventurous sor He armed road in Forest wide , and met a Damsel fair , Who told him of adventures great , whereto he gave good ear . Why should I not ( quoth Lancelot though ) for that cause came I hither : Thou seem'st , quod she , a Knight right good , and I will bring thee thither . Whereas the mightiest Knight does dwell , that now is of great fame : Wherefore tell me what Knight thou art and then what is thy name . My name is Lancelot du Lake : quoth she , it likes me then : Here dwells a Knight that never was o're matched of any man , Who hath in Prison threescore Knights , and some that he hath bound . Knights of King Arthurs Court they be , and of the Table round . She brought him to a River then and also to a Tree , Whereas a Copper Bason hung , his fellows shields to see : He struck so hard the Basin broke , when Tarquin herd the found , He drove a horse before him straight , whereon a Knight was bound . Sir Knight ( then said Sir Lancelot ) bring me that horseload hither , And lay him down and let him rest , we'l try our force together : For as I understand thou hast , as far as thou art able , Done great despite and shame unto the Knights of the round Table . If thou art of the Table round , quoth Tarquin speedily , Both thee and all thy fellowship I utterly defy . That's overmuch , quoth Lancelot though , defend thee by and by , They put their Spurs unto their Steeds , and each at other fly ; They couch their Spears , and Horses run , as though they had been thunder , And each struck then upon the Shield , wherewith they brake asunder , Their Horses backs brake under them , the Knights were both astoned , To void their Horses they made haste , to light upon the ground : They took them to their shields full fast , their swords they drew out then , With mighty strokes most eagerly each one at other ran : They wounded were , and bled full soar , for breath they both did stand , And leaning on their Swords a while , quoth Tarquin hold thy hand , And tell to me what I shall ask : Say on , quoth Lancelot though , Thou art , quoth Tarquin , the best Knight that ever I did know ; And like a Knight that I did hate , so that thou be not he , I will deliver all the rest , and eke accord with thee . That is well said , quoth Lancelot then , but sith it so must be , What is that Knight thou hatest so , I pray thee show to me ? His name is Sir Lancelot du Lake , he slew my brother dear , Him I suspect of all the rest , I would I had him here . Thy wish thou hast , but now unknown , I am Lancelot du Lake , Now Knight of Arthurs Table round , Kings Hands Son of Benwake ; And I defy thee , do thy worst , Would , would , quoth Tarquin though , One of us two shall end their lives before that we do go . If thou be Lancelot du Lake , then welcome shalt thou be , Wherefore see thou thy self defend for now I thee defy . They hurled then together fast , like two wild Boars so rashing , And with their Swords and Shields they ran at one another slashing : The ground besprinkled was with blood Tarquin began to faint , For he had hacked and boar his Shield so low he did repent ; That soon espied Sir Lancelot though , he leapt upon him then , He pull'd him down upon his knee , and rushed off his Helm ; And then he struck his neck in two , and when he had done so , From Prison threescore Knights and four , Lancelot delivered though . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 