The Three Worthy Butchers of the North : I weep , I wail , and travel much in pain , Now all my youthful Days are past , they'l never come again ; Once I was a Man , but now alas I am none , For all my Companions are from me fled and gone . To a pleasant New Tune . DId you never hear of worthy Butchers three , And how they spent their days in mirth and jollity , there was Kitson , Wilson , & Johnson , mark me what I say , They took 300 pounds worth of Goods upon a day . When as the day of payment began for to draw near , Their money to their Creditors intended for to bear ; And riding upon Blankly-lane as fast as they cou'd trig Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a jig . With a heigh down , down , with a down derry dee , God bless all true men out of Thieves company . Riding then on Blankly-lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , I hear a woman cry ; Oh help , help , help , Oh help , or else I die , Oh help me some good Christians for my torments they draw nigh . O hark , Oh hark , said Johnson , I hear a woman cry , Sure I came of a woman , and shall I see her die ? No ride on neighbour Johnson , now Kitson he did say , For that is some lewd woman will cast us all away . If you had but rid on this way as oft as we have done , You would have herd this cry before , & now let us be gone , Then Johnson whipped into the wood with all his might & main , Whereas he found the woman with cords fast ty'd in twain With cords was ty'd in twain , & hand & foot was bound , And found her there stark naked , with her hair pin'd to the ground . Alas , said Johnson , what man hath us'd thee so , He came not of a woman that would work a woman's woe : Hast thou no lewd Company now Johnson he did say , For here we are come to save thy life , thou mayest cast us all away . No I have no lewd company the woman she did say , Three Ruffians came riding by , and rob'd me by the way ; They took my clothes from me , & hand and foot me bound & left me here in woeful sort , with my hair pin'd to the ground so Johnson he whipped out his sword with all his might & main And presently the woman's cords , Johnson he cut in twain , A Shirt out of his Cloak-bag presently plucked he , And put it on the woman to cover her secrecy . I have neither wife nor Children , Johnson he did say , And thou shalt be the Lady of all till death take life away : Johnson being a loving man , and boar a careful mind , He put his Cloak about her to keep her from the wind . Straight upon Horseback presently god he , And they road all out of the wood , and rid on gallantly : Riding then on Blankly-lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a Jig ; With a heigh down down , with a heigh down derry dee , What if here were 10 thieves so we are true Men three . Riding then on Blankly-lane as fast as they could high , be merry my hearts , said Johnson , the land end draws nigh The woman hearing him say so , presently by and by , She put her finger to her ear , and gave a squeaking cry . Ten Thieves then with weapons drawn in hand , They step'd before Johnson , and quickly bid him stand ; What is it so , said Johnson , since 'twill no better be , I vow that some of you shall die before I killed be : Stand fast , fight men , see that you be not idle , For I vow his hand shall off that lays hold on my Bridle . Alas , said Kitson , to Fight no heart have I , No more have I said Wilson , in faith I'de rather die : Here is three hundred pound that we are bound to pay , And you shall have it all , and lets escape with life away . The Second part , to the same Tune . What is it so , said Johnson Fight men , and be free , And stand but at my back , keep the back-blows from me : Stand fast , Fight men , Fight me and be free , And by the help of God we shall win the Victory . Five of these Thieves and the woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson , and bound them fast in woe : As these 10 thieves play before him , & play'd upon the ground For Johnson had 5 Pistols with bullets charged found ; With Bullets charged found , presently he let fly , Till Five of these Thieves upon the ground did lie . Put up , said the other Five , put up without delay , For if that he gets charged , he will kill us all this day . Fight on , said the Woman , Fight on I say to you , For if you Five don't kill him , I vow your Priest to be . so Johnson he whipped out his Sword with all his might & main , And play'd about him gallantly till 3 more of them were slave , Put up , said the other two , put up without delay , For if that we continue fight , he'l kill us all this day . Fight on , said the woman , Fight on I say to you , For if you two don't kill him , I vow your Priest to be ; As these 2 thieves play'd before him , alas he did not mind , For presently the Woman knock'd him down behind ; O wicked woman , wickedly hast thou done , thou hast kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone , For had but my fellows , had they prov'd true to me , they were cowards , said the woman , & as cowards they shall die . Two of these thieves and the woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson where they lay bound in woe : A Club into her hand , as she god all the gains , went to Kitson & to Wilson & dashed out both their brains . How this murder was discovered , list and you shall hear , It was by a silly Shepherd hid in the Hedge for fear ; A Gentleman and his man as they came riding by , Seeing this woeful murder straight sent forth hue and cry . I but do what e're they could , taken they could not be , For they god Ship at Yarmouth , and so went over Sea ; This is the trick of thieves when they have Murder done , when they have committed roguery , full fast away they run . God bless our royal King & Queen , & send them long to reign In health , wealth & prosperity , true Justice to maintain , God bless all true men that travel by Land or Sea , And keep all true men out of Thieves Company . FINIS . Paul Burges . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield . The Three Worthy Butchers of the North : I weep , I wail , and travel much in pain , Now all my youthful Days are past , they'l never come again ; Once I was a Man , but now alas I am none , For all my Companions are from me fled and gone . To a pleasant New Tune . DId you never hear of worthy Butchers three , And how they spent their days in mirth and jollity , there was Kitson , Wilson , & Johnson , mark me what I say , They took 300 pounds worth of Goods upon a day . When as the day of payment began for to draw near , Their money to their Creditors intended for to bear ; And riding upon Blankly-lane as fast as they cou'd trig Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a jig . With a heigh down , down , with a down derry dee , God bless all true men out of Thieves company . Riding then on Blankly-lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , I hear a woman cry ; Oh help , help , help , Oh help , or else I die , Oh help me some good Christians for my torments they draw nigh . O hark , Oh hark , said Johnson , I hear a woman cry , Sure I came of a woman , and shall I see her die ? No ride on neighbour Johnson , now Kitson he did say , For that is some lewd woman will cast us all away . If you had but rid on this way as oft as we have done , You would have herd this cry before , & now let us be gone , Then Johnson whipped into the wood with all his might & main , Whereas he found the woman with cords fast ty'd in twain With cords was ty'd in twain , & hand & foot was bound , And found her there stark naked , with her hair pin'd to the ground . Alas , said Johnson , what man hath us'd thee so , He came not of a woman that would work a woman's woe : Hast thou no lewd Company now Johnson he did say , For here we are come to save thy life , thou mayest cast us all away . No I have no lewd company the woman she did say , Three Ruffians came riding by , and rob'd me by the way ; They took my clothes from me , & hand and foot me bound & left me here in woeful sort , with my hair pin'd to the ground so Johnson he whipped out his sword with all his might & main And presently the woman's cords , Johnson he cut in twain , A Shirt out of his Cloak-bag presently plucked he , And put it on the woman to cover her secrecy . I have neither wife nor Children , Johnson he did say , And thou shalt be the Lady of all till death take life away : Johnson being a loving man , and boar a careful mind , He put his Cloak about her to keep her from the wind . Straight upon Horseback presently god he , And they road all out of the wood , and rid on gallantly : Riding then on Blankly-lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a Jig ; With a heigh down down , with a heigh down derry dee , What if here were 10 thieves so we are true Men three . Riding then on Blankly-lane as fast as they could high , be merry my hearts , said Johnson , the land end draws nigh The woman hearing him say so , presently by and by , She put her finger to her ear , and gave a squeaking cry . Ten Thieves then with weapons drawn in hand , They step'd before Johnson , and quickly bid him stand ; What is it so , said Johnson , since 'twill no better be , I vow that some of you shall die before I killed be : Stand fast , fight men , see that you be not idle , For I vow his hand shall off that lays hold on my Bridle . Alas , said Kitson , to Fight no heart have I , No more have I said Wilson , in faith I'de rather die : Here is three hundred pound that we are bound to pay , And you shall have it all , and lets escape with life away . The Second part , to the same Tune . What is it so , said Johnson Fight men , and be free , And stand but at my back , keep the back-blows from me : Stand fast , Fight men , Fight me and be free , And by the help of God we shall win the Victory . Five of these Thieves and the woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson , and bound them fast in woe : As these 10 thieves play before him , & play'd upon the ground For Johnson had 5 Pistols with bullets charged found ; With Bullets charged found , presently he let fly , Till Five of these Thieves upon the ground did lie . Put up , said the other Five , put up without delay , For if that he gets charged , he will kill us all this day . Fight on , said the Woman , Fight on I say to you , For if you Five don't kill him , I vow your Priest to be . so Johnson he whipped out his Sword with all his might & main , And play'd about him gallantly till 3 more of them were slave , Put up , said the other two , put up without delay , For if that we continue fight , he'l kill us all this day . Fight on , said the woman , Fight on I say to you , For if you two don't kill him , I vow your Priest to be ; As these 2 thieves play'd before him , alas he did not mind , For presently the Woman knock'd him down behind ; O wicked woman , wickedly hast thou done , thou hast kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone , For had but my fellows , had they prov'd true to me , they were cowards , said the woman , & as cowards they shall die . Two of these thieves and the woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson where they lay bound in woe : A Club into her hand , as she god all the gains , went to Kitson & to Wilson & dashed out both their brains . How this murder was discovered , list and you shall hear , It was by a silly Shepherd hid in the Hedge for fear ; A Gentleman and his man as they came riding by , Seeing this woeful murder straight sent forth hue and cry . I but do what e're they could , taken they could not be , For they god Ship at Yarmouth , and so went over Sea ; This is the trick of thieves when they have Murder done , when they have committed roguery , full fast away they run . God bless our royal King & Queen , & send them long to reign In health , wealth & prosperity , true Justice to maintain , God bless all true men that travel by Land or Sea , And keep all true men out of Thieves Company . FINIS . Paul Burges . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield . 