The sorrowful Lamentation of a Penitent Sinner . The Tune is , The Lamentation of a Sinner . O Lord my God I come to thee , in all my grief and pain , Now turn to me in my distress , and comfort me again . And enter not to judgement Lord , with sinful dust and clay , Nor with thy servant be not wrath , nor turn thy face away . And lay not Lord thy hand on Me , too heavy in thy fume ; For I am weak , and in thy wrath , I quickly shall consume ; I am afraid of thee Oh Lord , because thou didst me beatrice , But yet I know that Jesus Christ will for my soul entreat . I am a sinful wretch Oh Lord , for Mercy I do cry , Now help me Lord in My distress , and extreme misery , For unto thee Lord do I cry , by night and eke by day , Now help me for thy Mercy sake , and that without delay . But do not beatrice me overmuch , my loving Father sweet , Lest that this frail and wicked flesh , should from sweet Jesus fleet . I come again unto thee Lord , I do thee now embrace , And turn to me thy countenance , thy favour and thy face . And bring me home unto thy fold , for I am gone astray , And wandered in and unknown path , which brought me to decay . But now to thee my loving Lord , for Mercy I do cry , Now hear my plaint sweet Jesus Christ , and ease my Misery . And when it is thy gracious will , that I this sinful life shall leave : Sweet Jesus Christ into thy hands I do my soul bequeathe . And here I do entreat thee Lord , from the bottom of My heart , That from my Faith in Jesus Christ I never do depart . But in the very pangs of death , to thee Lord may I cry , Receive my Soul into thy handz , for now to thee I fly . And be a Father loving Lord unto my children small , Which I shall leave here in this World , when thou dost for me call . Also I pray thee loving Lord , to give their Mother grace , To train my children in thy fear , that they may thee embrace . And from th'enticements of this world , the flesh and filthy fiend , Lord aid them with thy mighty hand , and guide them to the end . That at the last and dreadful day , thou mayest receive us all ; Under the cover of thy wings , we may be free from thrall . And once again my loving Lord , I do thee hearty prey : Even for thy Son Christ Jesus sake , to wash our sins away . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The sorrowful Lamentation of a Penitent Sinner . The Tune is , The Lamentation of a Sinner . O Lord my God I come to thee , in all my grief and pain , Now turn to me in my distress , and comfort me again . And enter not to judgement Lord , with sinful dust and clay , Nor with thy servant be not wrath , nor turn thy face away . And lay not Lord thy hand on Me , too heavy in thy fume ; For I am weak , and in thy wrath , I quickly shall consume ; I am afraid of thee Oh Lord , because thou didst me beatrice , But yet I know that Jesus Christ will for my soul entreat . I am a sinful wretch Oh Lord , for Mercy I do cry , Now help me Lord in My distress , and extreme misery , For unto thee Lord do I cry , by night and eke by day , Now help me for thy Mercy sake , and that without delay . But do not beatrice me overmuch , my loving Father sweet , Lest that this frail and wicked flesh , should from sweet Jesus fleet . I come again unto thee Lord , I do thee now embrace , And turn to me thy countenance , thy favour and thy face . And bring me home unto thy fold , for I am gone astray , And wandered in and unknown path , which brought me to decay . But now to thee my loving Lord , for Mercy I do cry , Now hear my plaint sweet Jesus Christ , and ease my Misery . And when it is thy gracious will , that I this sinful life shall leave : Sweet Jesus Christ into thy hands I do my soul bequeathe . And here I do entreat thee Lord , from the bottom of My heart , That from my Faith in Jesus Christ I never do depart . But in the very pangs of death , to thee Lord may I cry , Receive my Soul into thy handz , for now to thee I fly . And be a Father loving Lord unto my children small , Which I shall leave here in this World , when thou dost for me call . Also I pray thee loving Lord , to give their Mother grace , To train my children in thy fear , that they may thee embrace . And from th'enticements of this world , the flesh and filthy fiend , Lord aid them with thy mighty hand , and guide them to the end . That at the last and dreadful day , thou mayest receive us all ; Under the cover of thy wings , we may be free from thrall . And once again my loving Lord , I do thee hearty prey : Even for thy Son Christ Jesus sake , to wash our sins away . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 