A Warning for Swearers , By the Example of God's Judgments showed upon a Man Born near the Town of Wolver - hampton , in Staffordshire , who had Stolen a Bible ; and being Examined before a Justice , deny'd the Fact , and falsely forswore it ; wishing he might Rot , if he were Guilty of the Theft ; which ( accor - ding to his Desire ) immediately fell upon him ; and is at this time , a sad Spectacle to Hundreds that have beheld him : Also , A Relation of God's Judgments showed upon a Woman , who Lived in Worcestershire ; who falsely forswore her self , and WORSER [ y' ] worser in a short time after , being immediately struck Dumb. J. C. Tune , Aim not too High . ALL you that do desire to hear and know , of wonders strange , the which the Lord does show , Give good attention to what I shall declare , the strangest thing that ever man did hear . My heart does tremble , and my hand does shake , to think what I at present undertake , For to declare what here I have begun enough to melt a heart as hard as stone : To see how people take delight in since , and for to mend their lives will not begin , Until Gods Judgments do them overtake , they never strive their Sins for to forsake . We rather seek to run in since the more , while Satan seeks our Souls for to devour ; Let's strive in time to break his subtle snare , and of our Souls and Bodies have a care . To see how many they do swear and curse , surely they think not of a God so just , That hears or sees , their actions that are done ; yes , at the last , besure he will strike home . As for example now in Stafford-Shire , there's a sad Judgement , as it does appear On forsworn wretches : there a man does lie in woeful state and grievous misery . He stole a Bible as it is well known , and being taxed , the same he did disown : He pray'd unto God his hands might Rot and so a Judgement on himself he brought . In a small time he had his full desire , and what he of the Lord did then require , His handwrists rot away most woefully : his hands are dead and black as black may be . The joints of's knees do rot in the same sort , as several hundred people can report , That daily goes to see and take a view , and witness can , the same for to be true . Upon the ground he stinks , as he does lie , none can endure for to stand him nigh : Lord grant that each good Christian may take care , how they themselves , so falsely do forswear . He does declare , and also does confess , it's Gods just Judgement for his wickedness , For stealing of this holy Bible book and following since , and so Gods law's forsook . But now alas within this world there's few , they'l ask and question if this same be true : But God is witness of his misery , let us poor Sinners warning take hereby . You men that hear these lines , I pray forbear , take heed how wilfully you Curse and Swear , Too many use it now in every place : more is the pity , 'tis for want of grace . ANd now you maids and wives take notice all see that you serve the Lord , and on him call : Take heed of worldly pride and vanity , for oftentimes no good does come thereby . And at a certain place in Worcestershire of late there liv'd a woman as I hear , In prime of youth she liv'd in height of pride , which in this world does now too many abide . And what of her , I here have to declare , I do desire all women to give ear , And not to scorn at what I shall unfold , for why ? good counsel's better far than gold . She being married , as it does appear , perhaps for want , she chanc't to fell her hair , A friend did tax her with it presently , and she the same most stoutly did deny . But flesh is frail , her faith it being weak , she pray'd to God that she might never speak : But in so doing she did not do well : Then see your smallest hair you do not fell . These words being spoke , she went home presently , where as 'tis said , she no long time did lie , But dy'd , and never after spoke one word : O , these are judgments sent down from the Lord ! To let us Sinners rightly understand , 'tis he that with one word can us command To live or perish to Eternity , let all poor Christians warning take hereby . And now my Song , for to conclude , and end , abroad into the world I do it send , That all poor Sinners may in time amend , and have a care how they the Lord offend . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . A Warning for Swearers , By the Example of God's Judgments showed upon a Man Born near the Town of Wolver - hampton , in Staffordshire , who had Stolen a Bible ; and being Examined before a Justice , deny'd the Fact , and falsely forswore it ; wishing he might Rot , if he were Guilty of the Theft ; which ( accor - ding to his Desire ) immediately fell upon him ; and is at this time , a sad Spectacle to Hundreds that have beheld him : Also , A Relation of God's Judgments showed upon a Woman , who Lived in Worcestershire ; who falsely forswore her self , and WORSER [ y' ] worser in a short time after , being immediately struck Dumb. J. C. Tune , Aim not too High . ALL you that do desire to hear and know , of wonders strange , the which the Lord does show , Give good attention to what I shall declare , the strangest thing that ever man did hear . My heart does tremble , and my hand does shake , to think what I at present undertake , For to declare what here I have begun enough to melt a heart as hard as stone : To see how people take delight in since , and for to mend their lives will not begin , Until Gods Judgments do them overtake , they never strive their Sins for to forsake . We rather seek to run in since the more , while Satan seeks our Souls for to devour ; Let's strive in time to break his subtle snare , and of our Souls and Bodies have a care . To see how many they do swear and curse , surely they think not of a God so just , That hears or sees , their actions that are done ; yes , at the last , besure he will strike home . As for example now in Stafford-Shire , there's a sad Judgement , as it does appear On forsworn wretches : there a man does lie in woeful state and grievous misery . He stole a Bible as it is well known , and being taxed , the same he did disown : He pray'd unto God his hands might Rot and so a Judgement on himself he brought . In a small time he had his full desire , and what he of the Lord did then require , His handwrists rot away most woefully : his hands are dead and black as black may be . The joints of's knees do rot in the same sort , as several hundred people can report , That daily goes to see and take a view , and witness can , the same for to be true . Upon the ground he stinks , as he does lie , none can endure for to stand him nigh : Lord grant that each good Christian may take care , how they themselves , so falsely do forswear . He does declare , and also does confess , it's Gods just Judgement for his wickedness , For stealing of this holy Bible book and following since , and so Gods law's forsook . But now alas within this world there's few , they'l ask and question if this same be true : But God is witness of his misery , let us poor Sinners warning take hereby . You men that hear these lines , I pray forbear , take heed how wilfully you Curse and Swear , Too many use it now in every place : more is the pity , 'tis for want of grace . ANd now you maids and wives take notice all see that you serve the Lord , and on him call : Take heed of worldly pride and vanity , for oftentimes no good does come thereby . And at a certain place in Worcestershire of late there liv'd a woman as I hear , In prime of youth she liv'd in height of pride , which in this world does now too many abide . And what of her , I here have to declare , I do desire all women to give ear , And not to scorn at what I shall unfold , for why ? good counsel's better far than gold . She being married , as it does appear , perhaps for want , she chanc't to fell her hair , A friend did tax her with it presently , and she the same most stoutly did deny . But flesh is frail , her faith it being weak , she pray'd to God that she might never speak : But in so doing she did not do well : Then see your smallest hair you do not fell . These words being spoke , she went home presently , where as 'tis said , she no long time did lie , But dy'd , and never after spoke one word : O , these are judgments sent down from the Lord ! To let us Sinners rightly understand , 'tis he that with one word can us command To live or perish to Eternity , let all poor Christians warning take hereby . And now my Song , for to conclude , and end , abroad into the world I do it send , That all poor Sinners may in time amend , and have a care how they the Lord offend . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 