The Lamenting Ladies last Farewell to the WORLD . Who being in a strange Exile , bewails her own Misery , complains upon fortune and destiny , describeth the manner of her breeding , deplores the loss of her Parents , wishing peace and happiness to England , which was her native Country , and withal resolving for death , cheerfully commended her Soul to Heaven , and her body to the earth , and quietly departed this Life , Anno. 1650. To and Excellent new Tune ; Oh Hone , Oh hone . MOurnful Melpomony , assist my Quill , That I may pensively now make my will : Guide thou my hand to write , And senses to indite , A Ladies last good night , Oh pity me . I that was nobly born , hither am sent , Like to a wretch forlorn , here to lamen In this most strange Exile , Here to remain a while , Till Heaven be pleas'd to smile and send for me . My friends cannot come nigh me in this place , Nor bear me company , such is my case : Poor I am left alone , But few regard my moan , All my delights are gone , heaven succour me . Each day with care and fears , I am perplexed , My drink is brinish tears , with sorrow mix When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep , Oppressed with dangers deep ; Lord comfort me . WHen England flourished , my Parents dear , Tenderly nourished , me many a year : I was advanc'd on high , In place of Dignity , In Golden bravery , they decked me . My garments decked with gold , richly approved , Never was English Girl , better beloved : Old and young , great and small , Waited upon my call , I had the Love of all , that did know me . But from my former state , I am call'd back , Through destiny and fate , all goes to wrack : Fortune did lately frown , And caught me by the crown , So pull'd me headlong down , o woe is me . My dear friends are decay'd , which lov'd me best , Never was harmless Maid so much distres My father he is dead , My Mother banished , All joys are from me fled , heavens comfort me . How well are they at ease , and sweetly blessed , That may go where they please , and when they lis To see their Parents kind , As nature does them bind , Such joys I cannot find , o woe is me . All earthly helps are gone , I will and must , Only in God alone , put my whole trus O blessed Trinity , One God and Persons three , Release my Misery , and comfort me . No Creature on the Earth , can ease my grief , Until such time as death yields me relief : A Coffin and a Grave , Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my Soul receive , and succour me . My Enemies that be , both great and small , Good Lord I pray to thee , forgive them all : May England flourish brave , When I am laid in Grave , So thus I take my leave , Christ calls for me . I have in Heaven above , a place prepar'd , Never shall I depart , from thence afterwards , Go toll my Passing-Bell , While Angels ring my Knell , So vain world now farewell , Christ sends for me . When she these words had spoke , with cheerful heart , The Noble-minded Maid , then did depar No doubt her Soul's at rest , With them whom God hath blessed The last words she Expressed , was , Christ calls for me . FINIS . Printed for T. Vere , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The Lamenting Ladies last Farewell to the WORLD . Who being in a strange Exile , bewails her own Misery , complains upon fortune and destiny , describeth the manner of her breeding , deplores the loss of her Parents , wishing peace and happiness to England , which was her native Country , and withal resolving for death , cheerfully commended her Soul to Heaven , and her body to the earth , and quietly departed this Life , Anno. 1650. To and Excellent new Tune ; Oh Hone , Oh hone . MOurnful Melpomony , assist my Quill , That I may pensively now make my will : Guide thou my hand to write , And senses to indite , A Ladies last good night , Oh pity me . I that was nobly born , hither am sent , Like to a wretch forlorn , here to lamen In this most strange Exile , Here to remain a while , Till Heaven be pleas'd to smile and send for me . My friends cannot come nigh me in this place , Nor bear me company , such is my case : Poor I am left alone , But few regard my moan , All my delights are gone , heaven succour me . Each day with care and fears , I am perplexed , My drink is brinish tears , with sorrow mix When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep , Oppressed with dangers deep ; Lord comfort me . WHen England flourished , my Parents dear , Tenderly nourished , me many a year : I was advanc'd on high , In place of Dignity , In Golden bravery , they decked me . My garments decked with gold , richly approved , Never was English Girl , better beloved : Old and young , great and small , Waited upon my call , I had the Love of all , that did know me . But from my former state , I am call'd back , Through destiny and fate , all goes to wrack : Fortune did lately frown , And caught me by the crown , So pull'd me headlong down , o woe is me . My dear friends are decay'd , which lov'd me best , Never was harmless Maid so much distres My father he is dead , My Mother banished , All joys are from me fled , heavens comfort me . How well are they at ease , and sweetly blessed , That may go where they please , and when they lis To see their Parents kind , As nature does them bind , Such joys I cannot find , o woe is me . All earthly helps are gone , I will and must , Only in God alone , put my whole trus O blessed Trinity , One God and Persons three , Release my Misery , and comfort me . No Creature on the Earth , can ease my grief , Until such time as death yields me relief : A Coffin and a Grave , Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my Soul receive , and succour me . My Enemies that be , both great and small , Good Lord I pray to thee , forgive them all : May England flourish brave , When I am laid in Grave , So thus I take my leave , Christ calls for me . I have in Heaven above , a place prepar'd , Never shall I depart , from thence afterwards , Go toll my Passing-Bell , While Angels ring my Knell , So vain world now farewell , Christ sends for me . When she these words had spoke , with cheerful heart , The Noble-minded Maid , then did depar No doubt her Soul's at rest , With them whom God hath blessed The last words she Expressed , was , Christ calls for me . FINIS . Printed for T. Vere , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 