A worthy Example of a virtuous wife , who fed her Father with her own Milk , being condemned to be starved to death , and afterwards pardoned by the Emperor . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . IN Room I read a Noble man , the Emperor did offend , And for that fault he was adjudg'd , unto a cruel end : That he should be in Prison cast , with irons many a one , And there be famished unto death , and brought to skin and bone . And more , if any one were known , by night , or yet by day , To bring him any kind of food , his hunger to allay : The Emperor swore a mighty Oath , without remorse , quoth he , They should sustain the crueld'st death , that could devised be . This cruel sentence once pronounc'd , the Nobleman was cast , Into a Dungeon dark and deep , with Irons fettered fas Where when he had with hunger great remained ten days space , A [ n ] worser neither tasted meat nor drink in this most woeful case , The tears along his ag'd face , most plenteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin , for to complain withal : Oh Lord ( quoth he ) what shall I do , so hungry Lord am I , For want of bred , one bit of bred , I perish , starve , and die . How precious is one grain of Wheat , unto my hungry soul ? One crust , or crumb or little piece , my hunger to control : Had I this Dungeon heaped with gold , I would forgo it all , To bu [ y ] and purchase one brown loaf , yea , were it ne'r so small . O that I had but every day , one bit of bred to eat ; Though ne'r so moldy b [ l ] ack , or brown , my comfort would be grea Yea , albeit I took it up , trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , and sweet to my desire . Good Lord how happy is the Hind , that labours all the day , The drudging-Mule , the Peasant poor , that at command do stay : They have their ordinary meals , they take no heed at all , Of those sweet crumbs and crusts that they , do carelessly let fallen . How happy is that little Chick , that without fear may go , and pick up those most precious crumbs which they away did throw : Oh that some pretty little Mouse , so much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust , into this place to me . BUt o my heart it is in vain , no succcour can I have , No meat , nor drink , nor water eke my loathed life to save , Oh bring some bred for Christ his sake , some bred , some bred for me , I die , I die , for lack of food , none but stone walls I see . Thus day and night he cried out , in [ m ] ost outrageous sort , That all the people far and near , were grieved at his report ; And though that many friends he had , and Daughters in the Town , Yet none durst come to succour him , fearing the Emperor's frown . Yet now behold one daughter dear , he had as I do find , Who liv'd in his disp [ l ] easure great , for matching against his mind : A [ l ] though she lived in mean estate , she was a virtuous Wife , And for to help her Father dear , she ventured thus her life . She quickly to her Sisters went , and of them did entreat , That by some secret means they would convey their Father meat ; Our father dear does starve ( she said ) the Emperor's wrath is such , He die alas for want of food , whereof we have too much . Sweet sisters therefore use some means his life for to preserve , And suffer not your father dear , in prison for to starve : Alas ( quoth they ) what shall we do his hunger to sustain , You know 'tis death for any one that would his life maintain . And though we wish him well , quod they , we never will agree , To spoil our selves , we had as lief that he should worser [ y ] e as we : And sister if you love your self , let this attempt alone , Though you do ne'r so secret work , at length it will be known . O hath our father's brought us up , and nourished us ( quoth she ) And shall we now forsake him quite , in his extremity : No , I will venture life and limb , to do my father good , The worst that is , I can but die , to fit a tyrants mood . With that away in haste she hies , and to the Prison goes ; But with her woeful father dear , she might not speak God knows : Except the Emperor would grant her favour in that case , The Keeper would admit no wight to enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , and falling on her knee , With wringing hands , & bitter tears , these words pronounced she : My hopeless Father gracious Lord , offending of your grace ; Is judg'd unto a pining death , within a woeful place . Which I confess he hath deserv'd , yet mighty Prince ( quoth she ) Vouchsafe in gracious sort to grant one simple boon to me : It chanced so I match'd my self , against my father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , as fortune hath assign'd . And seeing now the time is come he must resign his breath ; Vouchsafe that I may speak with him before his hour of death : And reconcile my self to him , his favour to obtain , That when he dies I may not then under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request , conditionally that she ; Each day unto her father came , should thoroughly searched be , no meat nor bred she with her brought to help him there distres But every day she nourished him with milk from her own breast . Thus by her milk he was preserv'd a twelve month and a day , And was most fair and fat to see , yet no man knew which way : The Emperor musing much thereat , at length did understand , How he was fed , and not his Law , was broke at any hand . And much admired at the same , and her great virtue shown , He pardoned him , and honoured her , with great preferments known . Her father ever after that did love her as his life , And blessed the time that she was made ; a loving wedded wife . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A worthy Example of a virtuous wife , who fed her Father with her own Milk , being condemned to be starved to death , and afterwards pardoned by the Emperor . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . IN Room I read a Noble man , the Emperor did offend , And for that fault he was adjudg'd , unto a cruel end : That he should be in Prison cast , with irons many a one , And there be famished unto death , and brought to skin and bone . And more , if any one were known , by night , or yet by day , To bring him any kind of food , his hunger to allay : The Emperor swore a mighty Oath , without remorse , quoth he , They should sustain the crueld'st death , that could devised be . This cruel sentence once pronounc'd , the Nobleman was cast , Into a Dungeon dark and deep , with Irons fettered fas Where when he had with hunger great remained ten days space , A [ n ] worser neither tasted meat nor drink in this most woeful case , The tears along his ag'd face , most plenteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin , for to complain withal : Oh Lord ( quoth he ) what shall I do , so hungry Lord am I , For want of bred , one bit of bred , I perish , starve , and die . How precious is one grain of Wheat , unto my hungry soul ? One crust , or crumb or little piece , my hunger to control : Had I this Dungeon heaped with gold , I would forgo it all , To bu [ y ] and purchase one brown loaf , yea , were it ne'r so small . O that I had but every day , one bit of bred to eat ; Though ne'r so moldy b [ l ] ack , or brown , my comfort would be grea Yea , albeit I took it up , trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , and sweet to my desire . Good Lord how happy is the Hind , that labours all the day , The drudging-Mule , the Peasant poor , that at command do stay : They have their ordinary meals , they take no heed at all , Of those sweet crumbs and crusts that they , do carelessly let fallen . How happy is that little Chick , that without fear may go , and pick up those most precious crumbs which they away did throw : Oh that some pretty little Mouse , so much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust , into this place to me . BUt o my heart it is in vain , no succcour can I have , No meat , nor drink , nor water eke my loathed life to save , Oh bring some bred for Christ his sake , some bred , some bred for me , I die , I die , for lack of food , none but stone walls I see . Thus day and night he cried out , in [ m ] ost outrageous sort , That all the people far and near , were grieved at his report ; And though that many friends he had , and Daughters in the Town , Yet none durst come to succour him , fearing the Emperor's frown . Yet now behold one daughter dear , he had as I do find , Who liv'd in his disp [ l ] easure great , for matching against his mind : A [ l ] though she lived in mean estate , she was a virtuous Wife , And for to help her Father dear , she ventured thus her life . She quickly to her Sisters went , and of them did entreat , That by some secret means they would convey their Father meat ; Our father dear does starve ( she said ) the Emperor's wrath is such , He die alas for want of food , whereof we have too much . Sweet sisters therefore use some means his life for to preserve , And suffer not your father dear , in prison for to starve : Alas ( quoth they ) what shall we do his hunger to sustain , You know 'tis death for any one that would his life maintain . And though we wish him well , quod they , we never will agree , To spoil our selves , we had as lief that he should worser [ y ] e as we : And sister if you love your self , let this attempt alone , Though you do ne'r so secret work , at length it will be known . O hath our father's brought us up , and nourished us ( quoth she ) And shall we now forsake him quite , in his extremity : No , I will venture life and limb , to do my father good , The worst that is , I can but die , to fit a tyrants mood . With that away in haste she hies , and to the Prison goes ; But with her woeful father dear , she might not speak God knows : Except the Emperor would grant her favour in that case , The Keeper would admit no wight to enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , and falling on her knee , With wringing hands , & bitter tears , these words pronounced she : My hopeless Father gracious Lord , offending of your grace ; Is judg'd unto a pining death , within a woeful place . Which I confess he hath deserv'd , yet mighty Prince ( quoth she ) Vouchsafe in gracious sort to grant one simple boon to me : It chanced so I match'd my self , against my father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , as fortune hath assign'd . And seeing now the time is come he must resign his breath ; Vouchsafe that I may speak with him before his hour of death : And reconcile my self to him , his favour to obtain , That when he dies I may not then under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request , conditionally that she ; Each day unto her father came , should thoroughly searched be , no meat nor bred she with her brought to help him there distres But every day she nourished him with milk from her own breast . Thus by her milk he was preserv'd a twelve month and a day , And was most fair and fat to see , yet no man knew which way : The Emperor musing much thereat , at length did understand , How he was fed , and not his Law , was broke at any hand . And much admired at the same , and her great virtue shown , He pardoned him , and honoured her , with great preferments known . Her father ever after that did love her as his life , And blessed the time that she was made ; a loving wedded wife . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 