The Popes Great Year of Jubilee . OR , The Catholics Encouragement for the Entertainment of Popery . With and Account of and Eminent Mars or Fair , which is to be kept by his Holiness , where all sorts of Indulgencies , pardons , Remissions , Relics , Trash , and Trumperies , are to be exposed to Sale , and may be had for ready money at any time of the day ; With the usual ceremonies thereunto appertaining . Therefore such sons as are desirous to embrace the kind proffers of their holy Mother , are advised in the neck of time to , come all away . Tune is , Have at and . LEt me extol ( these fickle times , ) The Church of Rome in ballad rhymes , And sing her glory and her praise . While we lie basking in her Rays , For nows the time without delay , That she invites , kind Proselytes , Come all away , come all away . For now with you I shall be free , This is the year of Jubilee , Where all are welcome to their charge , For we our Coffers shall enlarge , Good wares we proffer every day , Which you may try , before you buy , Come all away , [ come all away , ] [ For Par ] dons and indulgencies , [ For ] Relics and such rarities , [ If y ] ou but ready money bring , You shall not want for any thing , Our Holy Father we'l obey , And serve [ you all , ] , both great and small , [ Come all away , c ] ome all away . If that a Church you chance to rob , Although it is and untoward job ; For sacrilege we'l give [ y ] ou cure , And penance small you shall endure ; If that your money down you lay , A piece or so , 'tis touch and go , Come all away , come all away . Or if that [ at you c ] hance to fallen at strife , And murder father , son , or wife ; In private you absolv'd shall be , 'Tis but enlarging of your [ f ] ee , So shall you end the bloody [ from ] y ; And have a check , to save your neck , Come all away , come all away . Or any since that you can name , To keep you from all public shame ; If that your pockets lined be , Our absolutions shall be free Who would not [ such a Head ] obey ; That when he please [ gives thus ] of ease , Come [ all away , come all away . ] [ The ] second part , [ to the ] same tune . NExt Joesephs breeches you may see , Though out of fashion now they be , With milk came from the Virgin Marry , And St. John Baptists cloak all hairy ; These things are very rare you'l say , But many more , we have in store , Come all away , come all away . Therefore all those that will repair , And come to traffic at this fare ; Be sure you money with you bring , For that we count the only thing ; His holiness must have they say , New clothes most fine , against the time , Come all away , come all away . And now for to indulge you more , Who near was entertain'd before ; In our religion you shall find Enough for to content your mind ; Freedom and liberty each day , since to refrain , or since again , Come all away , come all away . We have a place cal'd purgatory , Though fools do count it a vain story ; In which if you be purged well , You need not fear the jaws of hell : I must confess 'tis hight they say , But money will do't , and bring you out , Come all away , come all away . Good Friday's lash is but a play , What e're the rabble rout may say , And quickly too it is forgotten , For on Easterday we hang on the pot ; And with sharp stomachs then we say , We need not fast now lent is past , Come , etc Then you which by our Churches pass , I say come in and hear a Mass , And see the Priests how clear they sup , The healing sacerdotal cup ; Then if you'l not the Pope obey , My labours lost , and I am crossed , Go your way , Go your [ way ] . The Popes Great Year of Jubilee . OR , The Catholics Encouragement for the Entertainment of Popery . With and Account of and Eminent Mars or Fair , which is to be kept by his Holiness , where all sorts of Indulgencies , pardons , Remissions , Relics , Trash , and Trumperies , are to be exposed to Sale , and may be had for ready money at any time of the day ; With the usual ceremonies thereunto appertaining . Therefore such sons as are desirous to embrace the kind proffers of their holy Mother , are advised in the neck of time to , come all away . Tune is , Have at and . LEt me extol ( these fickle times , ) The Church of Rome in ballad rhymes , And sing her glory and her praise . While we lie basking in her Rays , For nows the time without delay , That she invites , kind Proselytes , Come all away , come all away . For now with you I shall be free , This is the year of Jubilee , Where all are welcome to their charge , For we our Coffers shall enlarge , Good wares we proffer every day , Which you may try , before you buy , Come all away , [ come all away , ] [ For Par ] dons and indulgencies , [ For ] Relics and such rarities , [ If y ] ou but ready money bring , You shall not want for any thing , Our Holy Father we'l obey , And serve [ you all , ] , both great and small , [ Come all away , c ] ome all away . If that a Church you chance to rob , Although it is and untoward job ; For sacrilege we'l give [ y ] ou cure , And penance small you shall endure ; If that your money down you lay , A piece or so , 'tis touch and go , Come all away , come all away . Or if that [ at you c ] hance to fallen at strife , And murder father , son , or wife ; In private you absolv'd shall be , 'Tis but enlarging of your [ f ] ee , So shall you end the bloody [ from ] y ; And have a check , to save your neck , Come all away , come all away . Or any since that you can name , To keep you from all public shame ; If that your pockets lined be , Our absolutions shall be free Who would not [ such a Head ] obey ; That when he please [ gives thus ] of ease , Come [ all away , come all away . ] [ The ] second part , [ to the ] same tune . NExt Joesephs breeches you may see , Though out of fashion now they be , With milk came from the Virgin Marry , And St. John Baptists cloak all hairy ; These things are very rare you'l say , But many more , we have in store , Come all away , come all away . Therefore all those that will repair , And come to traffic at this fare ; Be sure you money with you bring , For that we count the only thing ; His holiness must have they say , New clothes most fine , against the time , Come all away , come all away . And now for to indulge you more , Who near was entertain'd before ; In our religion you shall find Enough for to content your mind ; Freedom and liberty each day , since to refrain , or since again , Come all away , come all away . We have a place cal'd purgatory , Though fools do count it a vain story ; In which if you be purged well , You need not fear the jaws of hell : I must confess 'tis hight they say , But money will do't , and bring you out , Come all away , come all away . Good Friday's lash is but a play , What e're the rabble rout may say , And quickly too it is forgotten , For on Easterday we hang on the pot ; And with sharp stomachs then we say , We need not fast now lent is past , Come , etc Then you which by our Churches pass , I say come in and hear a Mass , And see the Priests how clear they sup , The healing sacerdotal cup ; Then if you'l not the Pope obey , My labours lost , and I am crossed , Go your way , Go your [ way ] . 