Londons Glory , and Whittingtons Renown OR , A Looking-Glass for Citizens of LONDON . Being a Remarkable Story , how Sir Richard Whittington ( a poor Boy bred up in Lancashire ) came to be three times Lord Mayor of London in three several Kings Reigns , and how his rise was by a Cat , which he sent for a Venture be - yond Sea. Together with his Bountiful Gifts and Liberality given to this Honourable City : And the vast Sums of Money he lent the King to maintain the Wars in France . And how at a great Feast to which he invited the King , the Queen , and the Nobility , He Generously Burned the Writings , and freely forgave his Majesty the whole Debt . Tune of , Dainty come thou to me . BRave London Prentices , come listen to my Song , This for your glory all , and to you does belong , And you poor Country Lads , though born of low degree See by gods providence , what you in time may be , Hear must I tell the praise , of worthy whittington , Known to be in his days , thrice Lord Mayor of London , But of poor parentage , born was he as we hear , And in his tender age , bred up in Lancashire . Prooly to London , then , came up this Simple lad , Where with a Merchantman , soon he a dwelling had , And in a Kitchen plac'd a Scullion for to be , Where a long time he passed , in drudging slavery . His daily service was , turning Spits at the fire , And to scour pots of Brass , for a poor Scullions hire , A sharp Cook Maid there was , that beatrice him day by day , Which made him in his mind , think for to run away . So from the Merchantman , Whittington secretly , Towards his Country ran , to gain his liberty , But as he went along , in a fair Summer's morn , Londons Bells' sweetly rung , Whittington back return . Evermore sonndiry so , turn again Whittington , And thou in time shall be , Lord Mayor of London Whereupon badk again , Whittington came with speed , A prentice to remain as the Lord had decreed . Still blessed be the Bells' , this was his daily Song , Which my good fortune tells , most sweetly have they rung . If God so favour me , I will not prove unkind ; London my Love shall see , and my large bounties find . But see this happy chance , Whittington had a Cat , Which he a venture sent and god his wealth by that . For from Foreign Land where Rats & Mice abound . They brought him for his Cat many a fair thousand pound . When as they home were come with their Ship Laden so , Whittington's wealth began , by this Cat thus to grow : Scullions life he forsook , to be a Merchant good , And soon he began to look , how well his credit stood . Soon after he was chosen Sheriff of the City here , And then he quickly rose higher as did appear . For to this City's praise , Sir Richard Whittington , Came to be in his days , thrice Lord Mayor of London . More his fame to advance , thousands he lent his King , To maintain Wars in France honour from thence to bring . And after at a Feast , which he the King did make Burned the Bonds as a jest and would no money take . Ten thousand pound he gave , to his Prince willingly , And would no penny have for his kind courtesy : As God thus made him great , so he would daily see , Poor people fed with meat , to show his Charity . Prisoners poor , Cherished were , widows sweet , comfort found , Good deeds both far and near of him doe still resound : Whittingtons College is one of his Charities , And a fair Church he built to lasting memories . New-gate he built fair , for Prisoners to lie in ; Christs Church he did repair , Christian love for to win . Many more such like deeds , were done by Whittington , Which joy and comfort breeds to all that look thereon . Let all brave Citizens who do this story read , By his example learn , always the poor to feed , What is lent to the Poor , the Lord will sure repay , And Blessings keep in store until the latter day . Lancashire thou hast bred , this flower of Charity , Though he be dead and gone , yet lives his Memory . Those Bells' that call'd him so , turn again Whittington , Would they call many more such men to fair LONDON . London , Printed for R. Burton . at the Horseshoe in West Smithfield . Londons Glory , and Whittingtons Renown OR , A Looking-Glass for Citizens of LONDON . Being a Remarkable Story , how Sir Richard Whittington ( a poor Boy bred up in Lancashire ) came to be three times Lord Mayor of London in three several Kings Reigns , and how his rise was by a Cat , which he sent for a Venture be - yond Sea. Together with his Bountiful Gifts and Liberality given to this Honourable City : And the vast Sums of Money he lent the King to maintain the Wars in France . And how at a great Feast to which he invited the King , the Queen , and the Nobility , He Generously Burned the Writings , and freely forgave his Majesty the whole Debt . Tune of , Dainty come thou to me . BRave London Prentices , come listen to my Song , This for your glory all , and to you does belong , And you poor Country Lads , though born of low degree See by gods providence , what you in time may be , Hear must I tell the praise , of worthy whittington , Known to be in his days , thrice Lord Mayor of London , But of poor parentage , born was he as we hear , And in his tender age , bred up in Lancashire . Prooly to London , then , came up this Simple lad , Where with a Merchantman , soon he a dwelling had , And in a Kitchen plac'd a Scullion for to be , Where a long time he passed , in drudging slavery . His daily service was , turning Spits at the fire , And to scour pots of Brass , for a poor Scullions hire , A sharp Cook Maid there was , that beatrice him day by day , Which made him in his mind , think for to run away . So from the Merchantman , Whittington secretly , Towards his Country ran , to gain his liberty , But as he went along , in a fair Summer's morn , Londons Bells' sweetly rung , Whittington back return . Evermore sonndiry so , turn again Whittington , And thou in time shall be , Lord Mayor of London Whereupon badk again , Whittington came with speed , A prentice to remain as the Lord had decreed . Still blessed be the Bells' , this was his daily Song , Which my good fortune tells , most sweetly have they rung . If God so favour me , I will not prove unkind ; London my Love shall see , and my large bounties find . But see this happy chance , Whittington had a Cat , Which he a venture sent and god his wealth by that . For from Foreign Land where Rats & Mice abound . They brought him for his Cat many a fair thousand pound . When as they home were come with their Ship Laden so , Whittington's wealth began , by this Cat thus to grow : Scullions life he forsook , to be a Merchant good , And soon he began to look , how well his credit stood . Soon after he was chosen Sheriff of the City here , And then he quickly rose higher as did appear . For to this City's praise , Sir Richard Whittington , Came to be in his days , thrice Lord Mayor of London . More his fame to advance , thousands he lent his King , To maintain Wars in France honour from thence to bring . And after at a Feast , which he the King did make Burned the Bonds as a jest and would no money take . Ten thousand pound he gave , to his Prince willingly , And would no penny have for his kind courtesy : As God thus made him great , so he would daily see , Poor people fed with meat , to show his Charity . Prisoners poor , Cherished were , widows sweet , comfort found , Good deeds both far and near of him doe still resound : Whittingtons College is one of his Charities , And a fair Church he built to lasting memories . New-gate he built fair , for Prisoners to lie in ; Christs Church he did repair , Christian love for to win . Many more such like deeds , were done by Whittington , Which joy and comfort breeds to all that look thereon . Let all brave Citizens who do this story read , By his example learn , always the poor to feed , What is lent to the Poor , the Lord will sure repay , And Blessings keep in store until the latter day . Lancashire thou hast bred , this flower of Charity , Though he be dead and gone , yet lives his Memory . Those Bells' that call'd him so , turn again Whittington , Would they call many more such men to fair LONDON . London , Printed for R. Burton . at the Horseshoe in West Smithfield . 