R3 . 54-55 The Last News from France , Being a true Relation of the escape of the King of Scots from Worcester to London , and from London to France , who was conveyed away by a young Gentleman in woman's Apparel : The King of Scots attending on this supposed Gentlewoman in manner of a Servingman . The Tune is , When the King enjoys , etc ALL you that do desire to know what is become of the King of Scots , I unto you will truly show after the fight of Northern Rats , It I did convey His Highness away , And from all dangers set him free , In woman's attire As reason did require , And the King himself did wait on me . He of me a service did crave , and often times to me stood bore , In women's apparel he was most brave and on his chin he had no hare ; Where ever I came My speeches did frame , So well my waiting-man to free , The like was never known I think by any one , For the King , etc My Waiting man a Jewel had which I for want of money sold . Because my fortune was so bad , we turn'd our Jewel into gold , A good shift indeed In time of our need , Then glad was I , and glad was he , Our Cause it did advance Until we came to France , And the King , etc We walked through Westminster-Hall where Law and Justice does take place , Our grief were great , our comfort small , we looked grim death all in the face , I looked round about And made no other doubt But I and my man should taken be , The people little knew As I may tell to you , That the King himself did wait on me . FRom thence we went to the fatal place where his Father lost his life , And there my man did weep apace and sorrow with him then was rife , I bid him peace Let sorrow cease For fear that we should taken be , The Gallants in White-Hall Did little know at all , That the King himself did wait on me . The King he was my Servingman and thus the plot we did contrive , I went by the name of Mistress Anne when we took water at Queen-Hive , A Boat there we took And London forsook , And now in France arrived are we , We god away by stealth , And the King is in good health , And he shall no longer wait on me . The King of Denmark's dead they say then Charles is like to Rule the Land , In France he will no longer stay as I do rightly understand , That Land is his endue If they be but true And he with them do well agree : I herd a bird sing ; If he be once their King , My man will then my Master be . Now heaven grant them better success with their young King than England had , Free from war and from distress their Fortune may not be so bad , Since the case thus stands Let neighbouring Lands Lay down their Arms , and at quiet be , But as for my part I am glad with all my heart , That my man must now my Master be . And thus I have declar'd to you by what means we escap'd away , Now we bid our cares adieu though the King did loose the day , To him I was true And that he well knew , This God that must his comfort be , Else all our Policy Had been but foolery , For the King no longer waits on me . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . R3 . 54-55 The Last News from France , Being a true Relation of the escape of the King of Scots from Worcester to London , and from London to France , who was conveyed away by a young Gentleman in woman's Apparel : The King of Scots attending on this supposed Gentlewoman in manner of a Servingman . The Tune is , When the King enjoys , etc ALL you that do desire to know what is become of the King of Scots , I unto you will truly show after the fight of Northern Rats , It I did convey His Highness away , And from all dangers set him free , In woman's attire As reason did require , And the King himself did wait on me . He of me a service did crave , and often times to me stood bore , In women's apparel he was most brave and on his chin he had no hare ; Where ever I came My speeches did frame , So well my waiting-man to free , The like was never known I think by any one , For the King , etc My Waiting man a Jewel had which I for want of money sold . Because my fortune was so bad , we turn'd our Jewel into gold , A good shift indeed In time of our need , Then glad was I , and glad was he , Our Cause it did advance Until we came to France , And the King , etc We walked through Westminster-Hall where Law and Justice does take place , Our grief were great , our comfort small , we looked grim death all in the face , I looked round about And made no other doubt But I and my man should taken be , The people little knew As I may tell to you , That the King himself did wait on me . FRom thence we went to the fatal place where his Father lost his life , And there my man did weep apace and sorrow with him then was rife , I bid him peace Let sorrow cease For fear that we should taken be , The Gallants in White-Hall Did little know at all , That the King himself did wait on me . The King he was my Servingman and thus the plot we did contrive , I went by the name of Mistress Anne when we took water at Queen-Hive , A Boat there we took And London forsook , And now in France arrived are we , We god away by stealth , And the King is in good health , And he shall no longer wait on me . The King of Denmark's dead they say then Charles is like to Rule the Land , In France he will no longer stay as I do rightly understand , That Land is his endue If they be but true And he with them do well agree : I herd a bird sing ; If he be once their King , My man will then my Master be . Now heaven grant them better success with their young King than England had , Free from war and from distress their Fortune may not be so bad , Since the case thus stands Let neighbouring Lands Lay down their Arms , and at quiet be , But as for my part I am glad with all my heart , That my man must now my Master be . And thus I have declar'd to you by what means we escap'd away , Now we bid our cares adieu though the King did loose the day , To him I was true And that he well knew , This God that must his comfort be , Else all our Policy Had been but foolery , For the King no longer waits on me . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 