A Memorable Song on the unhappy hunting in Chevy-Chase , between Earl Piercy of England , and Earl Dowglas of Scotland . Tune of , Flying Fame . GOd prosper long our Noble King , our lives and safeties all , A woeful hunting once there did in Chevy Chase befall : To drive the Deer with hound & horn Earl Piercy took his way , The child may rue that is unborn , the hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Nurthumberland a vow to God did make , His pleasure in the Scottish Woods three summer's days to take . The chiefest hearts in Chevy Chase to kill and bear away , These tidings to Earl Dowglas came , in Scotland where he lay . Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport , The English Earl not fearing this , did to the woods resort , With fifteen hundred Bowmen bold , all chosen men of might , Who knew full well in time of need , to aim their shafts aright . The gallant gray-hounds swiftly ran to chase the Fallow Deer . On Munday they began to hunt , when day light did appear , And long before high noon they had and hundred fat bucks slave , Then having din'd the Drovers went to rouse them up again . The Bowmen mustered on the hills well able to endure , Their backsides all with special care that day were guarded sure , The hounds ran swiftly through the woods the nimble Deer to take , And with their cries the hills & dails and Echo shrill did make . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Deer , Quoth he , Earl Dowglas promised this day to meet me here , But if I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay , With that a brave young Gentleman thus to the Earl did say . Lo yonder does Earl Dowglas come , his men in armour bright , Full twenty hundred Scottish spears all marching in our sighed . All men of pleasant Tividale fast by the River Tweed , Then cease your sport Earl Piercy said , and take your bows with speed . And now with me my Countrymen , your courage forth advance , For never was their Champion yet , in Scotland or in France , That ever did on horseback come but if my hap it were , I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a spear . Earl Dowglas on a milkwhite steed most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the company , whose armour shone like gold , Show me ( he said ) whose men you be that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase and kill my fallow Deer . The man that first did answer make was noble Piercy he , Who said we list not to declare , nor show whose men we be : Yet will we spend our dearest blood , thy chiefest Hearts to slay , Then Dowglas swore a solemn oath and thus in rage did say . E're thus I will outbraved be , one of us two shall die , I know the well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy , so am I ; But trust me Piercy pity it were , and great offence to kill , Any of these our harmless men , for they have done no ill . Let thou and I the battle try . and set our men aside , Accursed be he Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his name , Who said he would not have it told to Henry our King for shame . That e're my Captain fought on foot and I stood looking on ; you be two Earls ; said Witherington and I a Squire alone . I'le do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to weil'd my sword i'le fight with heart & hand . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Our english archers bent their bows their hearts were good & true , At the first flight of Arrows sent , full threescore Scots they slew , To drive the Deer with hound & horn Earl Dowglas bade the bent A Captain mov'd with much pride the Spears to shivers went . They clos'd full fast on every side no slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the ground . O Christ it was great grief to see , and likewise for to hear , The cries of men lying in their gore and scattered here and there . At last these 2 stout Earls did meet , like Captains of great might , Like Lions mov'd they laid on load , and made a cruel fight . That [ e ] y fought until they both did sweat with swords of tempered steel , Until the blood like drops of rain , they trickling down did feel . Yield the Lord Piercy , Dowglas said in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be by James our Scottish King , Thy ransom I will freely give , and thus report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see . No Dowglas , quod Earl Piercy then , thy proffer I do scorn , I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born . With that there came and arrow keen out of and English Bow. Which struck Oh Dowglas to the heart a deep and deadly blow , Who never spoke more words then these fight on my merry men all , For why my life is at and end , Lord Piercy sees my fallen . Then leaving life , Earl Piercy took the dead man by the hand . And said , Earl Dowglas for thy life , would I had lost my Land. O Christ my very heart does bleed , with sorrow for thy sake , For sure a more renowned Knight , mischance did never take . A Knight among the Scots there was , which saw Earl Dowglas die , Who straight in wrath did vow revenge , upon the Earl Piercy . Sir Hugh Montgomery was he cal'd who with a Spear most bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the fight . And passed the English archers all without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then he thrust his hateful Spear . With such a vehement force & might he did his body gore , The spear went through the other side , a large cloth yard and more . So thus did both these nobles die , whose courage none could stain , And English archer then perceiv'd the Noble Earl was slave . He had a Bow bent in his hand , made of a trusty tree , And arrow of a cloth yard long , unto the head drew he . Against Sir Hugh Montgomerie , so right his Shaft he set , the grey-goose wing that was thereon in his heart blood was wet . This fight did last from break of day till setting of the Sun. For when they rung the evening bell , the battle scarce was done . With that Earl Piercy there was slave Sir John of Ogerton . Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron . And with sir George & good sir James both Knights of good account , Good sir Ralph Rabby there was slave whose prowess did surmount . For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in doleful dumps , For when his legs were smitten off he fought upon his stumps . And with Earl Dowglas there was slave Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Currel that from the field one foot would never fly . Sir Charles Murrel of Ratcliff too his sisters Son was he , Sir David Lamb so well esteem'd yet saved could not be . And the Lord Markwel in likewise , did with Earl Dowglas die , Of twenty hundred Scottish spears scarce fifty five did fly . Of fifteen hundred English men went home but fifty three , The rest were slave in Chevy-Chase under the Green-Wood tree . Next Day did many Widows come their Husbands to bewail , They washed their wounds in brinish tears but all would not prevail . Their bodies bath'd in purple blood , they boar with them away , They kissed them dead a thousand times when they were clad in clay . This news was brought to Edenburg , where Scotlands King did reign . That brave Earl Dowglas suddenly was with and arrow slave . O heavy news King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , of such account as he . Like tidings to King Henry came , within as short a space , That Piercy of Northumberland was slave in Chevy-Chase : Now God be with him , said our King , sith 'twill no better be , I trust I have within my Realm , five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scot nor Scotland say but I will vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , for brave Earl Piercies sake . This vow full well the King perform'd , after on Humble Down , In one day fifty Knights were slave , with Lords of great renown . And of the rest of small account did many hundreds die , Thus ended the hunting of Chevy-Chase made by the Earl piercy . God save the King and bless the land in plenty , joy , and peace , And grant henceforth that foul debate betwixt Noble men may cease . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . A Memorable Song on the unhappy hunting in Chevy-Chase , between Earl Piercy of England , and Earl Dowglas of Scotland . Tune of , Flying Fame . GOd prosper long our Noble King , our lives and safeties all , A woeful hunting once there did in Chevy Chase befall : To drive the Deer with hound & horn Earl Piercy took his way , The child may rue that is unborn , the hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Nurthumberland a vow to God did make , His pleasure in the Scottish Woods three summer's days to take . The chiefest hearts in Chevy Chase to kill and bear away , These tidings to Earl Dowglas came , in Scotland where he lay . Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport , The English Earl not fearing this , did to the woods resort , With fifteen hundred Bowmen bold , all chosen men of might , Who knew full well in time of need , to aim their shafts aright . The gallant gray-hounds swiftly ran to chase the Fallow Deer . On Munday they began to hunt , when day light did appear , And long before high noon they had and hundred fat bucks slave , Then having din'd the Drovers went to rouse them up again . The Bowmen mustered on the hills well able to endure , Their backsides all with special care that day were guarded sure , The hounds ran swiftly through the woods the nimble Deer to take , And with their cries the hills & dails and Echo shrill did make . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Deer , Quoth he , Earl Dowglas promised this day to meet me here , But if I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay , With that a brave young Gentleman thus to the Earl did say . Lo yonder does Earl Dowglas come , his men in armour bright , Full twenty hundred Scottish spears all marching in our sighed . All men of pleasant Tividale fast by the River Tweed , Then cease your sport Earl Piercy said , and take your bows with speed . And now with me my Countrymen , your courage forth advance , For never was their Champion yet , in Scotland or in France , That ever did on horseback come but if my hap it were , I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a spear . Earl Dowglas on a milkwhite steed most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the company , whose armour shone like gold , Show me ( he said ) whose men you be that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase and kill my fallow Deer . The man that first did answer make was noble Piercy he , Who said we list not to declare , nor show whose men we be : Yet will we spend our dearest blood , thy chiefest Hearts to slay , Then Dowglas swore a solemn oath and thus in rage did say . E're thus I will outbraved be , one of us two shall die , I know the well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy , so am I ; But trust me Piercy pity it were , and great offence to kill , Any of these our harmless men , for they have done no ill . Let thou and I the battle try . and set our men aside , Accursed be he Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his name , Who said he would not have it told to Henry our King for shame . That e're my Captain fought on foot and I stood looking on ; you be two Earls ; said Witherington and I a Squire alone . I'le do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to weil'd my sword i'le fight with heart & hand . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Our english archers bent their bows their hearts were good & true , At the first flight of Arrows sent , full threescore Scots they slew , To drive the Deer with hound & horn Earl Dowglas bade the bent A Captain mov'd with much pride the Spears to shivers went . They clos'd full fast on every side no slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the ground . O Christ it was great grief to see , and likewise for to hear , The cries of men lying in their gore and scattered here and there . At last these 2 stout Earls did meet , like Captains of great might , Like Lions mov'd they laid on load , and made a cruel fight . That [ e ] y fought until they both did sweat with swords of tempered steel , Until the blood like drops of rain , they trickling down did feel . Yield the Lord Piercy , Dowglas said in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be by James our Scottish King , Thy ransom I will freely give , and thus report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see . No Dowglas , quod Earl Piercy then , thy proffer I do scorn , I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born . With that there came and arrow keen out of and English Bow. Which struck Oh Dowglas to the heart a deep and deadly blow , Who never spoke more words then these fight on my merry men all , For why my life is at and end , Lord Piercy sees my fallen . Then leaving life , Earl Piercy took the dead man by the hand . And said , Earl Dowglas for thy life , would I had lost my Land. O Christ my very heart does bleed , with sorrow for thy sake , For sure a more renowned Knight , mischance did never take . A Knight among the Scots there was , which saw Earl Dowglas die , Who straight in wrath did vow revenge , upon the Earl Piercy . Sir Hugh Montgomery was he cal'd who with a Spear most bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the fight . And passed the English archers all without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then he thrust his hateful Spear . With such a vehement force & might he did his body gore , The spear went through the other side , a large cloth yard and more . So thus did both these nobles die , whose courage none could stain , And English archer then perceiv'd the Noble Earl was slave . He had a Bow bent in his hand , made of a trusty tree , And arrow of a cloth yard long , unto the head drew he . Against Sir Hugh Montgomerie , so right his Shaft he set , the grey-goose wing that was thereon in his heart blood was wet . This fight did last from break of day till setting of the Sun. For when they rung the evening bell , the battle scarce was done . With that Earl Piercy there was slave Sir John of Ogerton . Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron . And with sir George & good sir James both Knights of good account , Good sir Ralph Rabby there was slave whose prowess did surmount . For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in doleful dumps , For when his legs were smitten off he fought upon his stumps . And with Earl Dowglas there was slave Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Currel that from the field one foot would never fly . Sir Charles Murrel of Ratcliff too his sisters Son was he , Sir David Lamb so well esteem'd yet saved could not be . And the Lord Markwel in likewise , did with Earl Dowglas die , Of twenty hundred Scottish spears scarce fifty five did fly . Of fifteen hundred English men went home but fifty three , The rest were slave in Chevy-Chase under the Green-Wood tree . Next Day did many Widows come their Husbands to bewail , They washed their wounds in brinish tears but all would not prevail . Their bodies bath'd in purple blood , they boar with them away , They kissed them dead a thousand times when they were clad in clay . This news was brought to Edenburg , where Scotlands King did reign . That brave Earl Dowglas suddenly was with and arrow slave . O heavy news King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , of such account as he . Like tidings to King Henry came , within as short a space , That Piercy of Northumberland was slave in Chevy-Chase : Now God be with him , said our King , sith 'twill no better be , I trust I have within my Realm , five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scot nor Scotland say but I will vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , for brave Earl Piercies sake . This vow full well the King perform'd , after on Humble Down , In one day fifty Knights were slave , with Lords of great renown . And of the rest of small account did many hundreds die , Thus ended the hunting of Chevy-Chase made by the Earl piercy . God save the King and bless the land in plenty , joy , and peace , And grant henceforth that foul debate betwixt Noble men may cease . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 