And Old Song of the Old Courtier of the Kings , With a New Song of a new Courtier of the Kings . The Tune is , The Queen's Old Courtier . Old. AND old song made , of and Old aged pate , Of and old Gentlemen , who had a wealthy estate ; Who kept and old House , at a bountiful rate , Like and old Courtier of the Kings , And the Kings old courtier . New. A new flourishing Gallant newly come to his Land , And can take up a thousand pound on his own new Band , Who keeps two painted creatures at his own command , Like a new courtier of the Kings , And the Kings new courtier . Old. And old Lady whose anger , one word assuages , And every quarter pays her old Servants their wages , Who never knew what belongs to Coach , Footmen , nor Pages , But keeps fifty two stout fellows in blue Coats and badges , Like and old courtier , etc New. A new Lady whose face is beauty - full and fair , And never knew what belong to housekeeping nor care ; But buys a new Fan to play with the wanton Air , And several new dressings of other women's hair . Like a new courtier , etc Old. And old Hall hung round , with Pikes , Bills , and Bows , Swords , blades , and bucklers , that have endured stout blows , And and old Frizadow Coat to cover his worthies Trunk-hose , And and old cup of Sherry to burr - nish up his honourable Nose , Like and old courtier , etc The second Part , to the same tune . New. A New Hall built where the Old Hall stood , Hung round with pictures , that does the poor but little good , And a new Chimney that never burned Coal nor Wood , And a new Shufle-board-table whereon meat never stood . Like a new Courtier of the Kings , And the Kings new courtier . Old. And and old Study stuffed full of Old , learned books , And and old reverend Chaplain , you might know him by his looks And and old Kitchen that main - tains half a dozen old Cooks , And and old buttery hatch worn of the old hooks , Like and old courtier , etc New. A new study stuffed full of Pam - phlets and plays , And a new drunken Chaplain swears faster then he prays . And a new buttery hatch opens once in four or five days , Like a new courtier , etc Old. And old faulkner , a Huntsman , a kennel of hounds , And his worship did never hawk nor hunt , But in his Grane-Fathers grounds , And when he died left every child , a thousand of old pounds , Like and old courtier , etc New. A new fashion when Christmas was drawing on , This new Knight and his Lady to London must be gone , And left none at home , but the new Porter John , To relieve poor people with a thump on the back with a cold stone , Like a new courtier , etc Old. And old fashion when Christmas was drawing on , Calls all his Neighbours and tenants together with bagpipe and drum , And meat enough to furnish every old room , And Beer that will make a Cat speak , and a wise man dumb . Like and old courtier , etc Old. And when he died , to his Son and heir he assign'd , To be good to his Neighbours , and to his Tenants kind . And to keep still the same bountiful mind , Like and old courtier , etc New. A new Gentleman Usher , whose carriage is complete , And the Coachman , Grooms , & Foot - men to carry up the meat , And when they din'd left them little to eat . Like a new Courtier of the Kings , And the Kings new courtier . FINIS . Written by T. Howard , Gent. London , Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Saffron-Hill , near Hatton Garden . And Old Song of the Old Courtier of the Kings , With a New Song of a new Courtier of the Kings . The Tune is , The Queen's Old Courtier . Old. AND old song made , of and Old aged pate , Of and old Gentlemen , who had a wealthy estate ; Who kept and old House , at a bountiful rate , Like and old Courtier of the Kings , And the Kings old courtier . New. A new flourishing Gallant newly come to his Land , And can take up a thousand pound on his own new Band , Who keeps two painted creatures at his own command , Like a new courtier of the Kings , And the Kings new courtier . Old. And old Lady whose anger , one word assuages , And every quarter pays her old Servants their wages , Who never knew what belongs to Coach , Footmen , nor Pages , But keeps fifty two stout fellows in blue Coats and badges , Like and old courtier , etc New. A new Lady whose face is beauty - full and fair , And never knew what belong to housekeeping nor care ; But buys a new Fan to play with the wanton Air , And several new dressings of other women's hair . Like a new courtier , etc Old. And old Hall hung round , with Pikes , Bills , and Bows , Swords , blades , and bucklers , that have endured stout blows , And and old Frizadow Coat to cover his worthies Trunk-hose , And and old cup of Sherry to burr - nish up his honourable Nose , Like and old courtier , etc The second Part , to the same tune . New. A New Hall built where the Old Hall stood , Hung round with pictures , that does the poor but little good , And a new Chimney that never burned Coal nor Wood , And a new Shufle-board-table whereon meat never stood . Like a new Courtier of the Kings , And the Kings new courtier . Old. And and old Study stuffed full of Old , learned books , And and old reverend Chaplain , you might know him by his looks And and old Kitchen that main - tains half a dozen old Cooks , And and old buttery hatch worn of the old hooks , Like and old courtier , etc New. A new study stuffed full of Pam - phlets and plays , And a new drunken Chaplain swears faster then he prays . And a new buttery hatch opens once in four or five days , Like a new courtier , etc Old. And old faulkner , a Huntsman , a kennel of hounds , And his worship did never hawk nor hunt , But in his Grane-Fathers grounds , And when he died left every child , a thousand of old pounds , Like and old courtier , etc New. A new fashion when Christmas was drawing on , This new Knight and his Lady to London must be gone , And left none at home , but the new Porter John , To relieve poor people with a thump on the back with a cold stone , Like a new courtier , etc Old. And old fashion when Christmas was drawing on , Calls all his Neighbours and tenants together with bagpipe and drum , And meat enough to furnish every old room , And Beer that will make a Cat speak , and a wise man dumb . Like and old courtier , etc Old. And when he died , to his Son and heir he assign'd , To be good to his Neighbours , and to his Tenants kind . And to keep still the same bountiful mind , Like and old courtier , etc New. A new Gentleman Usher , whose carriage is complete , And the Coachman , Grooms , & Foot - men to carry up the meat , And when they din'd left them little to eat . Like a new Courtier of the Kings , And the Kings new courtier . FINIS . Written by T. Howard , Gent. London , Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Saffron-Hill , near Hatton Garden . 