The Great Boobee . To a pleasant New Tune : Or , Sallengers Round . MY Friend , if you will understand my Fortune's what they are , I once had Cattle , House , and Land , but now I am never the near ; My Father left a good estate , as I may tell to thee , I cozened was of all I had , like a great Boobee . I went to School with a good intent , and for to learn my Book , And all the day I went to play , in it I never did look : Full seven years , or very nigh , as I may tell to thee , I could hardly say my Christ-Cross-Row , like a great Boobee . My Father then in all the haste , did set me to the Blow , And for to lash the Horse about , indeed I knew not how : My Father took his Whip in his hand , and soundly lashed me , He call'd me Fool and Country Clown , and great Boobee . But I did from my Father run , for I will Blow no more , Because he had so slashed me , and made my sides so soar : But I will go to London Town , some Vashions for to see , When I came there they call'd me Clown and great Boobee . But as I went along the street , I carried my Hat in my hand , And to every one that I did meet , I bravely bust my hand : Some did laugh , and some did scoff , and some did mock at me , And some did say I was a Woodcock , and a great Boobee . Then did I walk in haste to Pauls , the Steeple for to view , Because I herd some people say , it should be built new ; Then I god up unto the top , the City for to see , It was so high it made me cry , like a great Boobee . The second part , to the same Tune . FRom thence I went to Westminster , and for to see the Tombs , O , said I , what a house is here , with and infinite sighed of Rooms ? Sweetly the Abbey Bells' did ring , it was a fine sighed to see , Methought I was going to Heaven in a string , like a great Boobee . But as I went along the street , the most part of the day , Many Gallants did I meet , methought they were very gay : I blew my Nose , and pist my Hose , some people did me see , They said I was a Beastly Fool , and a great Boobee . Next day I through Pie-corner past , the Roast-meat on the Stall , Invited me to take a taste , my Money was but small : The Meat I picked , the Cook me kicked , as I may tell to thee , He beatrice me soar , and made me roar , like a great Boobee . As I through Smithfield lately walked , a gallant Lass I met , Familiarly with me she talked , which I cannot forge She proffer'd me a pint of Wine , methought she was wondrous free , To the Tavern then I went with her , like a great Boobee . She told me we were near of Kin , and call'd for Wine good store , Before the reckoning was brought in , my Cousin prov'd a Whore : My Purse she picked , and went away , my Cousin cozened me , The Vintner kicked me out of door , like a great Boobee . At the Exchange when I came there , I saw most gallant things , I thought the Pictures living were of all our English Kings : I doffed my Hat , and made a Leg , and kneeled on my Knee , The people laughed , and call'd me Fool , and great Boobee . To Paris Garden then I went , where there is great resort , My pleasure was my punishment , I did not like the spor The Garden Bull with his stout horns , on high then tossed me , I did bewray my self with fear , like a great Boobee . The Bearheard went to save me then , the people flocked about , I told the Bear-garden-men , my guts were almost ou They said I stunk most grievously , no man would pity me , They call'd me witless Fool and Ass , and great Boobee . Then o're the Water did I pass , as you shall understand , I dropped into the Thames alas , before I came to Land : The Waterman did help me out , and thus thus did say to me , 'Tis not thy fortune to be drown'd , like a great Boobee . But I have learned so much wit , shall shorten all my cares , If I can but a Liscence get , to play before the Bears : 'Twill be a gallant place indeed , as I may tell to thee , Then who dares call me Fool or Ass , or great Boobee . Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Saffron-hill , near Hatton-Garden . The Great Boobee . To a pleasant New Tune : Or , Sallengers Round . MY Friend , if you will understand my Fortune's what they are , I once had Cattle , House , and Land , but now I am never the near ; My Father left a good estate , as I may tell to thee , I cozened was of all I had , like a great Boobee . I went to School with a good intent , and for to learn my Book , And all the day I went to play , in it I never did look : Full seven years , or very nigh , as I may tell to thee , I could hardly say my Christ-Cross-Row , like a great Boobee . My Father then in all the haste , did set me to the Blow , And for to lash the Horse about , indeed I knew not how : My Father took his Whip in his hand , and soundly lashed me , He call'd me Fool and Country Clown , and great Boobee . But I did from my Father run , for I will Blow no more , Because he had so slashed me , and made my sides so soar : But I will go to London Town , some Vashions for to see , When I came there they call'd me Clown and great Boobee . But as I went along the street , I carried my Hat in my hand , And to every one that I did meet , I bravely bust my hand : Some did laugh , and some did scoff , and some did mock at me , And some did say I was a Woodcock , and a great Boobee . Then did I walk in haste to Pauls , the Steeple for to view , Because I herd some people say , it should be built new ; Then I god up unto the top , the City for to see , It was so high it made me cry , like a great Boobee . The second part , to the same Tune . FRom thence I went to Westminster , and for to see the Tombs , O , said I , what a house is here , with and infinite sighed of Rooms ? Sweetly the Abbey Bells' did ring , it was a fine sighed to see , Methought I was going to Heaven in a string , like a great Boobee . But as I went along the street , the most part of the day , Many Gallants did I meet , methought they were very gay : I blew my Nose , and pist my Hose , some people did me see , They said I was a Beastly Fool , and a great Boobee . Next day I through Pie-corner past , the Roast-meat on the Stall , Invited me to take a taste , my Money was but small : The Meat I picked , the Cook me kicked , as I may tell to thee , He beatrice me soar , and made me roar , like a great Boobee . As I through Smithfield lately walked , a gallant Lass I met , Familiarly with me she talked , which I cannot forge She proffer'd me a pint of Wine , methought she was wondrous free , To the Tavern then I went with her , like a great Boobee . She told me we were near of Kin , and call'd for Wine good store , Before the reckoning was brought in , my Cousin prov'd a Whore : My Purse she picked , and went away , my Cousin cozened me , The Vintner kicked me out of door , like a great Boobee . At the Exchange when I came there , I saw most gallant things , I thought the Pictures living were of all our English Kings : I doffed my Hat , and made a Leg , and kneeled on my Knee , The people laughed , and call'd me Fool , and great Boobee . To Paris Garden then I went , where there is great resort , My pleasure was my punishment , I did not like the spor The Garden Bull with his stout horns , on high then tossed me , I did bewray my self with fear , like a great Boobee . The Bearheard went to save me then , the people flocked about , I told the Bear-garden-men , my guts were almost ou They said I stunk most grievously , no man would pity me , They call'd me witless Fool and Ass , and great Boobee . Then o're the Water did I pass , as you shall understand , I dropped into the Thames alas , before I came to Land : The Waterman did help me out , and thus thus did say to me , 'Tis not thy fortune to be drown'd , like a great Boobee . But I have learned so much wit , shall shorten all my cares , If I can but a Liscence get , to play before the Bears : 'Twill be a gallant place indeed , as I may tell to thee , Then who dares call me Fool or Ass , or great Boobee . Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Saffron-hill , near Hatton-Garden . 