Long looked for is come at last . People were fill'd with Discontent , Wanting their wished for Parliament But call'd by Charles our Gracious King , Merrrily now they Laugh and Sing . To the Tune of , Let Bumpers go round , etc Papists shall here receive their fatal Doom , Because they've acted for the Pope of Rome . NOw the Parliament Sits , Traitors look to your Hits , there's no doubt but they'l call you to Question , Some do boldly declare , that in Earnest you were , and I hope they will not go in Jest on : Then come to the Bar , since Invited you are , and freely acknowledge your Plots ; For your great Friend the Pope , is almost out of Hope , and in each of your Scutcheons there's Damnable Blots : Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , or else we shall find Loyal hearts but a few ; For it is a sad thing , To Murder a King , and Destroy , and Destroy Religion too . The Great Gun-powder-Plot , will ne'r be forgotten , nor the Cruelties Papists intended , And no Man can tell , what would us have befell , if the Heavens had not us befriended : While for Mercy we pray'd , it was not Delay'd , but we found to our comfort and Joy , That God would us keep , both Awake and Asleep , and the Pope and his Agents could not us Destroy : Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , or else we shall find Loyal hearts but a few , For it is a sad thing , To Murder a King , and destroy , and destroy Religion too . Since the Parliament then , is made up of brave men , and none Sits but are bravely esteemed ; Let us Laugh and Rejoice , at this Noble brave Choice , and thank God we from Foes are Redeemed : Live long then great Charles , with your Lords and your Earls who our Religion do strive to Defend , When the Pope does come in , will our Sorrows begin , and there's no Man can tell when our Torments shall end : Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , etc Then Blow merry Gales , for to fill up the Sails , and Transport all our Foes from the Nation ; For they Comfort will find , that are all of one mind , and Division's the Devils Creation : Sure he's not very Wise , who does Shapes Idolise , or suppose that the Pope can Forgive ; For he is but a Man , and pray tell me how than , can he the Sin-loaded poor Sinner Relieve ? Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , etc But since at the worst , we by them are Accursed , and all Heretics we are supposed ; Were it well understood , they do thirst after Blood , our Creator he certainly knows i What Devices they had for to make their Hearts glad , they did Surfeit with hope's to Destroy , This Plot we do know , was laid long ago , but the Heavens did Smile , and now fills us with joy : Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , etc Long looked for at last , to the Plot gives a Blast , and the Parliament now does befriend us , And does separate those , whom we looked on as Foes , what Misery then can attend us : Let us pray Night and Day , since God found out a way , to Deliver us from Sword and Fire ; And we are not Bereft , but have Witnesses left , to Attest what the Papists did freely Desire : Give Traitors their endue , Give Traitors their endue , etc But this proves a great Cross , and the Papists sad Loss , thus strangely to be Disappointed , When they thought they were sure , to bring us to their Lure , their whole Frame it was strangely Disjointed : And their Friends ( as they thought ) have our Happiness wrought , then give the Almighty the Praise , Who takes no Delight , in such Deeds of Dark Night , but Discovery's made us by several ways : Give Traitors their endue , Give Traitors their endue , etc And now for to Close , let us pray for our Foes , that God would be pleas'd to Endue them With a sighed of their Sins , since all Europe begins with a Circumspect Eye for to view them : O , let them Repent , for their Wicked Intent was the Innocent Blood for to spill ; But our Great God above , who's the Author of [ L ] ove , declares 'tis against his most Heavenly Will . Give Traitors their endue , Give Traitors their endue , etc Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. T. and T.P. Long looked for is come at last . People were fill'd with Discontent , Wanting their wished for Parliament But call'd by Charles our Gracious King , Merrrily now they Laugh and Sing . To the Tune of , Let Bumpers go round , etc Papists shall here receive their fatal Doom , Because they've acted for the Pope of Rome . NOw the Parliament Sits , Traitors look to your Hits , there's no doubt but they'l call you to Question , Some do boldly declare , that in Earnest you were , and I hope they will not go in Jest on : Then come to the Bar , since Invited you are , and freely acknowledge your Plots ; For your great Friend the Pope , is almost out of Hope , and in each of your Scutcheons there's Damnable Blots : Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , or else we shall find Loyal hearts but a few ; For it is a sad thing , To Murder a King , and Destroy , and Destroy Religion too . The Great Gun-powder-Plot , will ne'r be forgotten , nor the Cruelties Papists intended , And no Man can tell , what would us have befell , if the Heavens had not us befriended : While for Mercy we pray'd , it was not Delay'd , but we found to our comfort and Joy , That God would us keep , both Awake and Asleep , and the Pope and his Agents could not us Destroy : Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , or else we shall find Loyal hearts but a few , For it is a sad thing , To Murder a King , and destroy , and destroy Religion too . Since the Parliament then , is made up of brave men , and none Sits but are bravely esteemed ; Let us Laugh and Rejoice , at this Noble brave Choice , and thank God we from Foes are Redeemed : Live long then great Charles , with your Lords and your Earls who our Religion do strive to Defend , When the Pope does come in , will our Sorrows begin , and there's no Man can tell when our Torments shall end : Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , etc Then Blow merry Gales , for to fill up the Sails , and Transport all our Foes from the Nation ; For they Comfort will find , that are all of one mind , and Division's the Devils Creation : Sure he's not very Wise , who does Shapes Idolise , or suppose that the Pope can Forgive ; For he is but a Man , and pray tell me how than , can he the Sin-loaded poor Sinner Relieve ? Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , etc But since at the worst , we by them are Accursed , and all Heretics we are supposed ; Were it well understood , they do thirst after Blood , our Creator he certainly knows i What Devices they had for to make their Hearts glad , they did Surfeit with hope's to Destroy , This Plot we do know , was laid long ago , but the Heavens did Smile , and now fills us with joy : Give Traitors their Endue , Give Traitors their Endue , etc Long looked for at last , to the Plot gives a Blast , and the Parliament now does befriend us , And does separate those , whom we looked on as Foes , what Misery then can attend us : Let us pray Night and Day , since God found out a way , to Deliver us from Sword and Fire ; And we are not Bereft , but have Witnesses left , to Attest what the Papists did freely Desire : Give Traitors their endue , Give Traitors their endue , etc But this proves a great Cross , and the Papists sad Loss , thus strangely to be Disappointed , When they thought they were sure , to bring us to their Lure , their whole Frame it was strangely Disjointed : And their Friends ( as they thought ) have our Happiness wrought , then give the Almighty the Praise , Who takes no Delight , in such Deeds of Dark Night , but Discovery's made us by several ways : Give Traitors their endue , Give Traitors their endue , etc And now for to Close , let us pray for our Foes , that God would be pleas'd to Endue them With a sighed of their Sins , since all Europe begins with a Circumspect Eye for to view them : O , let them Repent , for their Wicked Intent was the Innocent Blood for to spill ; But our Great God above , who's the Author of [ L ] ove , declares 'tis against his most Heavenly Will . Give Traitors their endue , Give Traitors their endue , etc Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. T. and T.P. 