The Claret-Drinkers Song ; OR , THE GOOD-FELLOWS DESIGN . Being a Pleasant New Song to the Times . Written by a Person of Quality . Wine the most powerfull'st of all things on Earth , Which stifles Cares and Sorrows in their Birth : No Treason in it harbors , nor can Hate Creep in where it bears sway , to hurt the State : Though Storms grow high , so Wine is to be god , We are secure , their Rage we valve not The Muses cherish'd up such Nectar , sing Eternal joy to him that loves his King . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . A Pox of the Fooling and Plotting of Late , What a pudder and stir has it kept in the State ? Let the Rabble run Mad with Suspitons and Fears , Let 'um Scuffle and Rail till they go by the Ears ; Their Grievances never shall trouble my Pate , So I but enjoy my dear Bottle at quiet . What Coxcombps were those that would ruin their case And their Necks for a Toy , a thin Wafer , and Mass ? For at Tyburn they never had needed to swing , Had they been but true Subject's to drink and their King A friend and a Bottle is all my Design , H'as no room for Treason that's topful of Wine . I mind not the Members and makers of Laws , Let 'em Sit or Prorogue as his Majesty please ; Let 'em Dam us to Woolen , I'le never repine , At my Usage when Dead , so Alive I have Wine : Yet oft in my Drink I can hardly forbear , To blame them for making my Clarret so dear . I mind not Grave Asses who Jolly Debate , About Rights and Successions that [ e ] Trifles of State : We've a good King already , and he deserves Laughter , That will trouble his Head with who shall come after : Come here's to his Health , and I wish he may be As free from all care and all Troubles as we . WHat care I how Leagues with Hollanders go , Or Intrigues 'twixt Monsieurs or Dons for to know , What concerns it my drinking if Cities be fold , If the Conqueror takes them by Storming or Gold ; From whence Claret comes is the place that I mind , And when the Fleet's coming , I pray for a Wind. The Bully of France that aspires to Renown , By dull cutting of Throats , and by vent'ring his own : Let him fight till he's ruin'd , make Matches , and Trea To afford us still News , the dull Coffee-house chea He's but a brave Wretch , while that I am more free , More safe , and a thousand times happier then he . In spite of him , or the Pope , or the Devil , Or Faggot , or Fire , or the worst of Hells evil : I still will drink Healths to the Lovers of Wine , Those jovial brisk Blades that do never repine ; I'le drink in Defiance of Napkin or Halter , Tho' Religion turn round still , yet mine shall ne'r altar . But a Health to Good-fellows shall still be my care , And while wine it holds out we no bumpers will spare ; I'le subscribe to Petitions for nothing but Claret , That that may be cheap here's both my hands for it ; 'Tis my Province , and with it I only am pleas'd , With the rest scolding Wives let poor Cuckolds appease No doubt 'tis the best of all Drinks , or so soon It ne'r had been chosen by the Man in the Moon ; Who drinks nothing else both by night and by day , But Claret , brisk Claret , as most people say : While Glasses brim full to the Stars they go round , which makes them shine bryter with read juice still crown [ 'd ] For all things in nature does live by good Drinking , And he's a dull Fool and not worthy my thinking , That does not prefer it before all the Treasure The Indies contain , or the Sea without measure : 'Tis the Life of Good-fellows , for without it they pine , When nought can revive 'um but Brimmers of Wine . I know the refreshments that still it does bring , Which have oftentimes made me as great as a King ; In the midst of his Armies , where e're he is found , While the Bottles and Glasses I've mustered round : Who are Bacchus's Warriors a Conquest will gain , Without the least Bloodshed of Wounded or slave . Then here's a good health to all those that love Peace , Let Plotters be damn'd , and all Quarrels now cease ; Let me but have Wine , and I care for no more , 'Tis a Treasure sufficient , there's none can be poor , That has Bacchus to's friend , for he laughs at all harm While with high-proofed Claret he does himself Arm. Printed for J. Jordan , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . The Claret-Drinkers Song ; OR , THE GOOD-FELLOWS DESIGN . Being a Pleasant New Song to the Times . Written by a Person of Quality . Wine the most powerfull'st of all things on Earth , Which stifles Cares and Sorrows in their Birth : No Treason in it harbors , nor can Hate Creep in where it bears sway , to hurt the State : Though Storms grow high , so Wine is to be god , We are secure , their Rage we valve not The Muses cherish'd up such Nectar , sing Eternal joy to him that loves his King . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . A Pox of the Fooling and Plotting of Late , What a pudder and stir has it kept in the State ? Let the Rabble run Mad with Suspitons and Fears , Let 'um Scuffle and Rail till they go by the Ears ; Their Grievances never shall trouble my Pate , So I but enjoy my dear Bottle at quiet . What Coxcombps were those that would ruin their case And their Necks for a Toy , a thin Wafer , and Mass ? For at Tyburn they never had needed to swing , Had they been but true Subject's to drink and their King A friend and a Bottle is all my Design , H'as no room for Treason that's topful of Wine . I mind not the Members and makers of Laws , Let 'em Sit or Prorogue as his Majesty please ; Let 'em Dam us to Woolen , I'le never repine , At my Usage when Dead , so Alive I have Wine : Yet oft in my Drink I can hardly forbear , To blame them for making my Clarret so dear . I mind not Grave Asses who Jolly Debate , About Rights and Successions that [ e ] Trifles of State : We've a good King already , and he deserves Laughter , That will trouble his Head with who shall come after : Come here's to his Health , and I wish he may be As free from all care and all Troubles as we . WHat care I how Leagues with Hollanders go , Or Intrigues 'twixt Monsieurs or Dons for to know , What concerns it my drinking if Cities be fold , If the Conqueror takes them by Storming or Gold ; From whence Claret comes is the place that I mind , And when the Fleet's coming , I pray for a Wind. The Bully of France that aspires to Renown , By dull cutting of Throats , and by vent'ring his own : Let him fight till he's ruin'd , make Matches , and Trea To afford us still News , the dull Coffee-house chea He's but a brave Wretch , while that I am more free , More safe , and a thousand times happier then he . In spite of him , or the Pope , or the Devil , Or Faggot , or Fire , or the worst of Hells evil : I still will drink Healths to the Lovers of Wine , Those jovial brisk Blades that do never repine ; I'le drink in Defiance of Napkin or Halter , Tho' Religion turn round still , yet mine shall ne'r altar . But a Health to Good-fellows shall still be my care , And while wine it holds out we no bumpers will spare ; I'le subscribe to Petitions for nothing but Claret , That that may be cheap here's both my hands for it ; 'Tis my Province , and with it I only am pleas'd , With the rest scolding Wives let poor Cuckolds appease No doubt 'tis the best of all Drinks , or so soon It ne'r had been chosen by the Man in the Moon ; Who drinks nothing else both by night and by day , But Claret , brisk Claret , as most people say : While Glasses brim full to the Stars they go round , which makes them shine bryter with read juice still crown [ 'd ] For all things in nature does live by good Drinking , And he's a dull Fool and not worthy my thinking , That does not prefer it before all the Treasure The Indies contain , or the Sea without measure : 'Tis the Life of Good-fellows , for without it they pine , When nought can revive 'um but Brimmers of Wine . I know the refreshments that still it does bring , Which have oftentimes made me as great as a King ; In the midst of his Armies , where e're he is found , While the Bottles and Glasses I've mustered round : Who are Bacchus's Warriors a Conquest will gain , Without the least Bloodshed of Wounded or slave . Then here's a good health to all those that love Peace , Let Plotters be damn'd , and all Quarrels now cease ; Let me but have Wine , and I care for no more , 'Tis a Treasure sufficient , there's none can be poor , That has Bacchus to's friend , for he laughs at all harm While with high-proofed Claret he does himself Arm. Printed for J. Jordan , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . 