Constance of Cleveland : A very excellent Sonnet of the most Fair Lady Constance of Cleveland . and her disloyal Knight . To the tune of Crimson Velvet . IT was a youthful Knight lov'd a gallant Lady , Fair she was and bright , and of virtues rare , Herself she did behave so courteously as may be , Wedded they were brave , joy without compare . Here began the grief , Pain without relief , her husband soon her love forsook To women lewd of mind , Being bad inclin'd , he only lent a pleasant look : The Lady she sat weeping , While that he was keeping company with others more . her words , my Love believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . His fair Ladies words , nothing he regarded , Wantonness affords such delightful sport . While they dance and sing , with great mirth prepared , She her hands did wring , in most grievous sort . O what hap had I , Thus to wail and cry ? unrespected every day . Living in disdain , While that others gain all the right I should enjoy , I am left forsaken , Others they are taken , ah my love why dost thou so ? her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will the overthrow . The Knight with his fair piece , at length the Lady spy [ ' ] worser , Who did him daily fleece of his wealth and store . Secretly she stood , while she her fashions tried , With a patient mind , while deep the strumpet swore . O sir Knight quoth she , So dearly I love thee , my life does rest at thy dispose . By day and eke by night , For thy sweet delight , thou shalt me in thy arms enclose . I am thine for ever , Still I will persever true to thee where ere I go , her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . The virtuous Lady mild , enters then among them , Being big with child as ever she might be . With distilling tears , she looked then upon them , Filled full of fears , thus replied she , Ah my Love and dear , Wherefore stay you here , refusing me your loving wife . For and harlots sake . Which each one will take , whose vile deeds provoke much strife Many can accuse her , Oh my Love refuse her , with thy Lady home return , Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow All in a fury then , the angry Knight up started : Very furious when he herd his Ladies speech . With many bitter terms , his wife he ever thwarted Using hard extremes while she did him beseech . From her neck so white , He took away in spite , her curious chain of purest gold , Her Jewels and her rings , And all such costly things , as he about her did behold . The harlot in her presence , He did gentle reverence and to her he gave them all . He sent away his Lady , Full of woe as may be . who in a swoon with grief did fallen AT the Ladies wrong , the Harlot fleered & laughed Enticements are so strong , they overcome the wise , The Knight nothing regarded to see the Lady scoffed , Thus was she rewarded for her Enterprise . The Harlot all this space , Did him oft embrace , she flatters him & thus does say , For thee I'll die and live , For thee my Faith I'll give , no woe shall work my loves decay , Thou shalt be my Treasure , Thou shalt be my pleasure , thou shalt be my hearts delight I will be thy darling , I will be thy worldling , in despite of Fortune's spite . Thus he did remain In wasteful great expenses , Till it bred his pain , and consumed him quite . When his Lands were spent , troubled in his senses , Then he did repent of his late lewd life . For relief he hies For relief he flies , to them on whom he spent his Gold , They do him deny , They do him defy , they will not once his face behold Being thus distressed , Being thus oppressed , in the fields that night he lay . Which the harlot knowing , Through her malice growing , sought to take his life away . A young and proper Lod , they had slave in secret , For the Gold he had whom they did convey By a Ruffian lewd to that place directly . Where the youthful Knight . fast a sleeping lay . The bloody Dagger than , Wherewith they kill'd the man , hard by the knight he likewise laid , Sprinkling him with blood ; As he thought it good , & then no longer there he stayed . The knight being so abused , Wa [ s ] forthwith accused , for this murder which was done And he was condemned , That had not offended . shameful death he might not shun When the Lady bright , understood the matter , That her wedded Knight , was condemn'd to die . To the King she went , with all the speed that might be Where she did lament her hard destiny . Noble King ( quoth she ) Pity take on me , & pardon my poor husbands life . Else I am undone . With my little Son , let mercy mitagate this grief : Lady fair content thee , Soon thou wouldst repent thee . if he should be saved so . Soar he hath abus'd there , Soar he hath misus'd thee , therefore Lady let him go . O my Liege quoth she , grant your gracious favour , Dear he is to me , though he did me wrong . The King reply'd again , with a stern behaviour , A Subject he hath slave , die he shall ere long . Except thou canst find . Any one so kind , that will die and set him free , Noble King she said , Glad am I paid , that same person will I be . I will suffer duly . I will suffer truly , for my Love and husbands sake The King thereat amazed , Though he her beauty praised ; he had from thence they should her take It was the Kings command , on the morrow after . She should out of hand , to the Scaffold go : Her husband was , to bear the sword before her He must eke alas give the deadly blow . He refus'd the deed , She bid him proceed , with a thousand kisses sweet In this woeful case . They did does embrace which mov'd the Ruffians in the place Straight for to discover This concealed murder , whereby the Lady saved was . The harlot then was hanged , As she well deserved this did virtue bring to pass . Printed for F , Coals , J.W. T. Vere W. Gilbertson Constance of Cleveland : A very excellent Sonnet of the most Fair Lady Constance of Cleveland . and her disloyal Knight . To the tune of Crimson Velvet . IT was a youthful Knight lov'd a gallant Lady , Fair she was and bright , and of virtues rare , Herself she did behave so courteously as may be , Wedded they were brave , joy without compare . Here began the grief , Pain without relief , her husband soon her love forsook To women lewd of mind , Being bad inclin'd , he only lent a pleasant look : The Lady she sat weeping , While that he was keeping company with others more . her words , my Love believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . His fair Ladies words , nothing he regarded , Wantonness affords such delightful sport . While they dance and sing , with great mirth prepared , She her hands did wring , in most grievous sort . O what hap had I , Thus to wail and cry ? unrespected every day . Living in disdain , While that others gain all the right I should enjoy , I am left forsaken , Others they are taken , ah my love why dost thou so ? her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will the overthrow . The Knight with his fair piece , at length the Lady spy [ ' ] worser , Who did him daily fleece of his wealth and store . Secretly she stood , while she her fashions tried , With a patient mind , while deep the strumpet swore . O sir Knight quoth she , So dearly I love thee , my life does rest at thy dispose . By day and eke by night , For thy sweet delight , thou shalt me in thy arms enclose . I am thine for ever , Still I will persever true to thee where ere I go , her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow . The virtuous Lady mild , enters then among them , Being big with child as ever she might be . With distilling tears , she looked then upon them , Filled full of fears , thus replied she , Ah my Love and dear , Wherefore stay you here , refusing me your loving wife . For and harlots sake . Which each one will take , whose vile deeds provoke much strife Many can accuse her , Oh my Love refuse her , with thy Lady home return , Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , wantons will thee overthrow All in a fury then , the angry Knight up started : Very furious when he herd his Ladies speech . With many bitter terms , his wife he ever thwarted Using hard extremes while she did him beseech . From her neck so white , He took away in spite , her curious chain of purest gold , Her Jewels and her rings , And all such costly things , as he about her did behold . The harlot in her presence , He did gentle reverence and to her he gave them all . He sent away his Lady , Full of woe as may be . who in a swoon with grief did fallen AT the Ladies wrong , the Harlot fleered & laughed Enticements are so strong , they overcome the wise , The Knight nothing regarded to see the Lady scoffed , Thus was she rewarded for her Enterprise . The Harlot all this space , Did him oft embrace , she flatters him & thus does say , For thee I'll die and live , For thee my Faith I'll give , no woe shall work my loves decay , Thou shalt be my Treasure , Thou shalt be my pleasure , thou shalt be my hearts delight I will be thy darling , I will be thy worldling , in despite of Fortune's spite . Thus he did remain In wasteful great expenses , Till it bred his pain , and consumed him quite . When his Lands were spent , troubled in his senses , Then he did repent of his late lewd life . For relief he hies For relief he flies , to them on whom he spent his Gold , They do him deny , They do him defy , they will not once his face behold Being thus distressed , Being thus oppressed , in the fields that night he lay . Which the harlot knowing , Through her malice growing , sought to take his life away . A young and proper Lod , they had slave in secret , For the Gold he had whom they did convey By a Ruffian lewd to that place directly . Where the youthful Knight . fast a sleeping lay . The bloody Dagger than , Wherewith they kill'd the man , hard by the knight he likewise laid , Sprinkling him with blood ; As he thought it good , & then no longer there he stayed . The knight being so abused , Wa [ s ] forthwith accused , for this murder which was done And he was condemned , That had not offended . shameful death he might not shun When the Lady bright , understood the matter , That her wedded Knight , was condemn'd to die . To the King she went , with all the speed that might be Where she did lament her hard destiny . Noble King ( quoth she ) Pity take on me , & pardon my poor husbands life . Else I am undone . With my little Son , let mercy mitagate this grief : Lady fair content thee , Soon thou wouldst repent thee . if he should be saved so . Soar he hath abus'd there , Soar he hath misus'd thee , therefore Lady let him go . O my Liege quoth she , grant your gracious favour , Dear he is to me , though he did me wrong . The King reply'd again , with a stern behaviour , A Subject he hath slave , die he shall ere long . Except thou canst find . Any one so kind , that will die and set him free , Noble King she said , Glad am I paid , that same person will I be . I will suffer duly . I will suffer truly , for my Love and husbands sake The King thereat amazed , Though he her beauty praised ; he had from thence they should her take It was the Kings command , on the morrow after . She should out of hand , to the Scaffold go : Her husband was , to bear the sword before her He must eke alas give the deadly blow . He refus'd the deed , She bid him proceed , with a thousand kisses sweet In this woeful case . They did does embrace which mov'd the Ruffians in the place Straight for to discover This concealed murder , whereby the Lady saved was . The harlot then was hanged , As she well deserved this did virtue bring to pass . Printed for F , Coals , J.W. T. Vere W. Gilbertson 