The Seamans Adieu to his Dear . This Man was pressed to serve upon the Seas , Which did his Dearest very much displease , She importun'd the Captain on her knee , And proffered Gold to have her Love set free : But all would not prevail , the Captains ear Was deaf , the Maids complaint he would not hear ; When no entreaty could move his hard heart , She sadly took her leave , and so they part . To the Tune of , I'le go to Sir Richard . COme all loyal Lovers that's faithful and true , observe where ever you be , A pattern I here have presented to you , it is good to be constant you see . But cheiffly to thee my own dearest I speak , with patience my absence to bear , For now I am pressed to serve on the Seas , and I must bid adieu to my dear . Our King must have Seamen and Soldiers most stout his enemies hearts for to fear , And I for my honour will venture about , and I must bid adieu to my dear . Maid . O tell me not so mine own dearest I pray , for loves sake take pity on me , I'll do my endeavour to please thee always , if that I may have my love free . 'Tis far better staying with me on the shore , where pleasures and joys do abound , Then for to venture where Cannons do roar , in the depth of the Seas to be drown'd . O be not so cruel ( my love ) for to fight , but tarry my dearest with me We'l find out a way in loves wars for to fight , and i'le strive for to set my love free . Man. All that thou canst do my love will not procure my freedom I sorely do fear , But I must the hardship of service endure , and I must bid adieu to my dear . My Captain by no means will let me go free , he likes me so well I do hear , Therefore it's in vain to beg my liberty , for I must bid adieu to my dear . Maid . ILe go to thy Captain and fallen on my knee , perhaps he'l take pity on me , If five pounds or ten pounds will buy thy Discharge , he shall have it to set my love free . Captains Answer . Not 10 pounds nor 20 will buy his Discharge , fair Maid you must patiently bear , He shall go to Sea for his King to engage , and he must bid adieu to his dear . I'll have him to serve me upon the salt Main , in battle with foes for to fight , Then cease pretty Maiden and do not complain , for the Wars is a soldiers delight . maid . Behold noble Captain the sorrowful tears , that down my cheeks trickle amain , To move your hard heart to release me of fear , and to grant me my love once again . No maidens heart ever was so full of woe , then good Sir take pity on me , And let him no further unto the wars go , but be pleased to set my love free . Captain . O cease thy suit Damosel and be not so sad , let reason thy mind now assuage , Ten thousand such Seamen e're long must be had , all against the proud foes to engage . man . My dearest why dost thou the Captain offend , thou seest he by no means wil'l yield , And I am resolved my blood for to spend , upon the salt Sea or in Field . Therefore be contented and cease thy sad moan , take comfort and do thou not fear , If fortune befriend me when as I am gone , I shall once again see mine own dear . maid . My dearest since thou must be parted from me , and here must no longer remain , the thought of thy love all my comfort shall be , until I do see thee again . Each hour for thy welfare to God will I pray , that he will in safety preserve My own dearest Lover by night and by day while he on the Ocean does serve . This token I prithee Love for my sake keep , remember me when you it wear , This parting kiss take which does cause me to weep , and so heavens bless mine own dear . man . Adieu my dear jewel , thy love I have found , our parting does grieve me full soar , The Drums they do beatrice , and the trumpets do found , and I must stay no longer on shore . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-Street , near Hatton-Garden . The Seamans Adieu to his Dear . This Man was pressed to serve upon the Seas , Which did his Dearest very much displease , She importun'd the Captain on her knee , And proffered Gold to have her Love set free : But all would not prevail , the Captains ear Was deaf , the Maids complaint he would not hear ; When no entreaty could move his hard heart , She sadly took her leave , and so they part . To the Tune of , I'le go to Sir Richard . COme all loyal Lovers that's faithful and true , observe where ever you be , A pattern I here have presented to you , it is good to be constant you see . But cheiffly to thee my own dearest I speak , with patience my absence to bear , For now I am pressed to serve on the Seas , and I must bid adieu to my dear . Our King must have Seamen and Soldiers most stout his enemies hearts for to fear , And I for my honour will venture about , and I must bid adieu to my dear . Maid . O tell me not so mine own dearest I pray , for loves sake take pity on me , I'll do my endeavour to please thee always , if that I may have my love free . 'Tis far better staying with me on the shore , where pleasures and joys do abound , Then for to venture where Cannons do roar , in the depth of the Seas to be drown'd . O be not so cruel ( my love ) for to fight , but tarry my dearest with me We'l find out a way in loves wars for to fight , and i'le strive for to set my love free . Man. All that thou canst do my love will not procure my freedom I sorely do fear , But I must the hardship of service endure , and I must bid adieu to my dear . My Captain by no means will let me go free , he likes me so well I do hear , Therefore it's in vain to beg my liberty , for I must bid adieu to my dear . Maid . ILe go to thy Captain and fallen on my knee , perhaps he'l take pity on me , If five pounds or ten pounds will buy thy Discharge , he shall have it to set my love free . Captains Answer . Not 10 pounds nor 20 will buy his Discharge , fair Maid you must patiently bear , He shall go to Sea for his King to engage , and he must bid adieu to his dear . I'll have him to serve me upon the salt Main , in battle with foes for to fight , Then cease pretty Maiden and do not complain , for the Wars is a soldiers delight . maid . Behold noble Captain the sorrowful tears , that down my cheeks trickle amain , To move your hard heart to release me of fear , and to grant me my love once again . No maidens heart ever was so full of woe , then good Sir take pity on me , And let him no further unto the wars go , but be pleased to set my love free . Captain . O cease thy suit Damosel and be not so sad , let reason thy mind now assuage , Ten thousand such Seamen e're long must be had , all against the proud foes to engage . man . My dearest why dost thou the Captain offend , thou seest he by no means wil'l yield , And I am resolved my blood for to spend , upon the salt Sea or in Field . Therefore be contented and cease thy sad moan , take comfort and do thou not fear , If fortune befriend me when as I am gone , I shall once again see mine own dear . maid . My dearest since thou must be parted from me , and here must no longer remain , the thought of thy love all my comfort shall be , until I do see thee again . Each hour for thy welfare to God will I pray , that he will in safety preserve My own dearest Lover by night and by day while he on the Ocean does serve . This token I prithee Love for my sake keep , remember me when you it wear , This parting kiss take which does cause me to weep , and so heavens bless mine own dear . man . Adieu my dear jewel , thy love I have found , our parting does grieve me full soar , The Drums they do beatrice , and the trumpets do found , and I must stay no longer on shore . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-Street , near Hatton-Garden . 