Tom and Will . OR , The Shepherd's Sheepfold . Both doted on a beautiful Lass , Both were alike respected ; Both thought themselves i'th better case , Both were at last neglected . To a pleasant new Country Tune . TOm and Will were Shepherd's Swains , who lov'd and liv'd together ; When fair Pastora grav'd the Plains , alack why come she thither ? For though they fed two several Flocks , they had but one desire , Pastora's eyes , and amber locks , set both their hearts on fire . Tom came of honest gentle raze , by Father and by Mother , Will was noble , but alas , he was a younger Brother . Tom was toilsome , Will was sad , no Hunts-Man ; nor no Fouler , Tom was held the proper Lad , but Will the better Bowler . The scorching flames their hearts did bear , then they could no longer smother , Although they knew they Rivals were , they still lov'd one another . Tom would drink her health and swear , this Nation will not want her , Will could not take her by the ear , and with his voice inchant her . Tom keeps always in her sighed , and ne'r forget his duty ; Will was witty and could write , some sonnets on her beauty . The second Part , to the same Tune . THus did she handle Tom and Will , who both did dote upon her ; For graciously she us'd them still , and still preserv'd her honour . Yet she was so sweet a she , and of so sweet behaviour , That Tom thought he , & Will thought he , was chiefly in her favour . Pastora was a loving Lass , and of a comely feature , Divinely good and fair she was , and kind to every creature . Of favour she was provident , and yet not oversparing , She gave no less encouragement , yet kept them from despairing . Which of these two she loved best , or whither she lov'd either , 'Tis thought they'l find it to their cost , that she indeed lov'd neither . She dealt her favour equally , they both were well contented , She kept them both from jealousy , not easily prevented . Taletelling fame hath made report , of fair Pastora's beauty , Pastora's sent for to the Court , there for to perform her duty . Unto the Court pastora's gone , it had been no Court without her , Our Queen among all her train had none not half so fair about her . Tom hung his Dog , and threw away , his Sheep-crook and his Wallet , Will burst his Pipes , and cursed the day , that e're he made a Sonnet . Their ninepins & their bowls they break , their joys are turn'd to fears ; 'Tis time for me and end to make , let them go shake their ears . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Safforn-hill , near Hatton-Garden . Tom and Will . OR , The Shepherd's Sheepfold . Both doted on a beautiful Lass , Both were alike respected ; Both thought themselves i'th better case , Both were at last neglected . To a pleasant new Country Tune . TOm and Will were Shepherd's Swains , who lov'd and liv'd together ; When fair Pastora grav'd the Plains , alack why come she thither ? For though they fed two several Flocks , they had but one desire , Pastora's eyes , and amber locks , set both their hearts on fire . Tom came of honest gentle raze , by Father and by Mother , Will was noble , but alas , he was a younger Brother . Tom was toilsome , Will was sad , no Hunts-Man ; nor no Fouler , Tom was held the proper Lad , but Will the better Bowler . The scorching flames their hearts did bear , then they could no longer smother , Although they knew they Rivals were , they still lov'd one another . Tom would drink her health and swear , this Nation will not want her , Will could not take her by the ear , and with his voice inchant her . Tom keeps always in her sighed , and ne'r forget his duty ; Will was witty and could write , some sonnets on her beauty . The second Part , to the same Tune . THus did she handle Tom and Will , who both did dote upon her ; For graciously she us'd them still , and still preserv'd her honour . Yet she was so sweet a she , and of so sweet behaviour , That Tom thought he , & Will thought he , was chiefly in her favour . Pastora was a loving Lass , and of a comely feature , Divinely good and fair she was , and kind to every creature . Of favour she was provident , and yet not oversparing , She gave no less encouragement , yet kept them from despairing . Which of these two she loved best , or whither she lov'd either , 'Tis thought they'l find it to their cost , that she indeed lov'd neither . She dealt her favour equally , they both were well contented , She kept them both from jealousy , not easily prevented . Taletelling fame hath made report , of fair Pastora's beauty , Pastora's sent for to the Court , there for to perform her duty . Unto the Court pastora's gone , it had been no Court without her , Our Queen among all her train had none not half so fair about her . Tom hung his Dog , and threw away , his Sheep-crook and his Wallet , Will burst his Pipes , and cursed the day , that e're he made a Sonnet . Their ninepins & their bowls they break , their joys are turn'd to fears ; 'Tis time for me and end to make , let them go shake their ears . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Safforn-hill , near Hatton-Garden . 