The Young men Vindication Against the Virgins Complaint . She rail'd against young Men in passion great , But he more mildly seems with her to treat . Young men are not so false as she would make them , Some Maids are full as bad , how e're you take them . To the Tune of , the Virgins Complaint , or Cupids Courtisie , SWeet Virgin hath disdain mov'd you to passion : Ne'er to love man again , but for the fashion . Was your abuse so great , beyond all measure : That you can quite forget to think of pleasure . Though one falsehearted man not to be nam . Made you look pale and wan , must all be blamed : As if scarce one were good in a whole City , Your peevish angry mood I can but pity , Men are not half so bad as you would make them , More Maidens may be had if you forsake them : Therefore I tell you plain , be not disdainful If Cupid shoot again , you'l find it painful . Young men had need beware , lest they be taken , And drawn into a snare , and so forsaken : Many maids prove untrue , take it for certain , T'will be too late to rue of a bad bargain . AB . B.C.DD.E.E.F.FG.HI.KKLLMN N . O.P.Q.R.R.R.S.T.T.U.V.V.W.W.X.Y.ZZ& MAidens falsehearted are , I can report i Their craft they will not spare , when they are courted : They'l bend unto your bow , their wits are nimble , It's very herd to know when they dissemble . They'l powder , prank , & paint , with each new fangle ; Sometime fit like a Saint , for to entangle . Their pretty wanton eyes are so alluring , Life and death in them lies , killing and curing . Their beauty's like a charm , lovers entrancing ; No man receives more harm , then by their glancing . Like Sire's they will sing , their voices ravish ; They make the Echoes ring , their tongues are lavish . By such alluring baits young men are taken , And then it is their fates to be forsaken : For these enticing Girls are so unconstant . They're wone and lost again all in and instant , I have experience had of their false dealing , Some of them are so bad they're not worth stealing : If one in half a score prove to be virtuous , She shall have Suitors store , her love is precious . Now tell me which are best young men or Maidens , I think 'tis here confessed both have their failings : Therefore be rul'd by me , scorn not a young man There's as much truth in him , as in a woman . Virgins take my advice , be not disdainful ; Neither be coy and nice squeamish , nor scornful . T'is but a pettish strain for to love no man ; If e're you love again , pray love a young man . I am resolved now , though some miscarry , I'le have a Virgin too , with her I'le marry . From Love I'le not refrain , though it be common : But when I love again , I'le love a woman . London , Printed for Rich. Burton at the Horshoo in West Smithfield . The Young men Vindication Against the Virgins Complaint . She rail'd against young Men in passion great , But he more mildly seems with her to treat . Young men are not so false as she would make them , Some Maids are full as bad , how e're you take them . To the Tune of , the Virgins Complaint , or Cupids Courtisie , SWeet Virgin hath disdain mov'd you to passion : Ne'er to love man again , but for the fashion . Was your abuse so great , beyond all measure : That you can quite forget to think of pleasure . Though one falsehearted man not to be nam . Made you look pale and wan , must all be blamed : As if scarce one were good in a whole City , Your peevish angry mood I can but pity , Men are not half so bad as you would make them , More Maidens may be had if you forsake them : Therefore I tell you plain , be not disdainful If Cupid shoot again , you'l find it painful . Young men had need beware , lest they be taken , And drawn into a snare , and so forsaken : Many maids prove untrue , take it for certain , T'will be too late to rue of a bad bargain . AB . B.C.DD.E.E.F.FG.HI.KKLLMN N . O.P.Q.R.R.R.S.T.T.U.V.V.W.W.X.Y.ZZ& MAidens falsehearted are , I can report i Their craft they will not spare , when they are courted : They'l bend unto your bow , their wits are nimble , It's very herd to know when they dissemble . They'l powder , prank , & paint , with each new fangle ; Sometime fit like a Saint , for to entangle . Their pretty wanton eyes are so alluring , Life and death in them lies , killing and curing . Their beauty's like a charm , lovers entrancing ; No man receives more harm , then by their glancing . Like Sire's they will sing , their voices ravish ; They make the Echoes ring , their tongues are lavish . By such alluring baits young men are taken , And then it is their fates to be forsaken : For these enticing Girls are so unconstant . They're wone and lost again all in and instant , I have experience had of their false dealing , Some of them are so bad they're not worth stealing : If one in half a score prove to be virtuous , She shall have Suitors store , her love is precious . Now tell me which are best young men or Maidens , I think 'tis here confessed both have their failings : Therefore be rul'd by me , scorn not a young man There's as much truth in him , as in a woman . Virgins take my advice , be not disdainful ; Neither be coy and nice squeamish , nor scornful . T'is but a pettish strain for to love no man ; If e're you love again , pray love a young man . I am resolved now , though some miscarry , I'le have a Virgin too , with her I'le marry . From Love I'le not refrain , though it be common : But when I love again , I'le love a woman . London , Printed for Rich. Burton at the Horshoo in West Smithfield . 