Love and Honesty : OR , The Modish Courtier . What's here to do ? a pretty Modish song Turn'd to a Ballad ? in troth I think e're long , A fourth part of the Town will Poets be , If that a line of Wit they can but see : They must be meddling and add further still , And never leave till all that's sense they kill : Yet if I Judge aright , the vulgar sort Are mightily beholding to them for't . To a pleasant new Tune , called , The Duke of Monmouth's Jig . With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Feb. 8. 1676. A Curse on the zealous and ignorant crew , Who languish all day , And with passion obey , The senseless decrees that Platonics pursue . How poor and unhappy ; Unhappy are those pretenders , Who fearful of scandal and vulgarly shame , Diminish their flame . But blessed be the man who with freedom enjoys , A Beauty whose Eyes , Like the Stars in the Sky , Procures new delight till his appetite cloys . How happy unhappy , How happy are those pretenders , Who fearless of scandal or vulgar reproach , Pursue their debauch . Elizium's a grief and a torment , compar'd To those that can prove , The enjoyment of Love , [ Where ] Lovers in raptures do meet a reward . The tales of the ancients , Of Elysian fields are ungrounded , In Loves kind fruition where souls have access , O there's the true bliss . Those conquering beauty's more pleasure afford , To such as are free , At their own liberty , Then Usurers Chests which with plenty are stor'd . Then happy be still , Noble Lads that are nature's adorers , While envy and avarice starve and repine , We'l frolic in Wine . Those that the confinement of Wedlock refuse , May live at their ease , And enjoy when they please , Being free from the strict matrimonial noose . The bawling of brats , Shall not injure his rest nor his quiet , But when with delights his fierce appetite's cloy'd , Then rest is enjoy'd . No wonder why clowns who of sense are debar'd , Remain till they die , Like a Hog in a Stye , And ne'r understand a brisk Lovers reward . 'Tis those that have souls , Of the modish new stamp that are witty , All others are drudges and never are blessed , Till death gives them rest . 'Tis Love that does give us true sense of our life , And makes us proceed , In each generous deed , Protected with love , or are freed from all strife . But those that ne'r knew , The delights of and amorous Lover , Can't truly be said to have liv'd out and hour , If free'd from Loves power . Those that for abundance do match with a wife , Are troubled with and itch , To be wealthy and rich , Which keeps them in torment all days of their life . They never enjoy , But still grumble at every misfortune , While wisdom creates in a generous mind , Joys they cannot find . God Cupid for ever thy name I'le adore , For now I can see , That in thy Deity , Are blessings ( for those that deserve them ) in store . A passion that's noble , Shall ever receive satisfaction , But ignorant fools who abandon thy name , Extinguish their flame . In liberty all men have cause to rejoice , If mingled with Love , Ever happy 'twill prove , What fops do count folly , we think our best choice . A cup of the creature , Will make our bloods warmer and warmer , Like senseless Fanatics we'l never repine , Of Love and good Wine . Printed for E. Oliver , at the Golden-Key , on Snow-hill , over-a-gainst St. Sepulchres Church . Love and Honesty : OR , The Modish Courtier . What's here to do ? a pretty Modish song Turn'd to a Ballad ? in troth I think e're long , A fourth part of the Town will Poets be , If that a line of Wit they can but see : They must be meddling and add further still , And never leave till all that's sense they kill : Yet if I Judge aright , the vulgar sort Are mightily beholding to them for't . To a pleasant new Tune , called , The Duke of Monmouth's Jig . With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Feb. 8. 1676. A Curse on the zealous and ignorant crew , Who languish all day , And with passion obey , The senseless decrees that Platonics pursue . How poor and unhappy ; Unhappy are those pretenders , Who fearful of scandal and vulgarly shame , Diminish their flame . But blessed be the man who with freedom enjoys , A Beauty whose Eyes , Like the Stars in the Sky , Procures new delight till his appetite cloys . How happy unhappy , How happy are those pretenders , Who fearless of scandal or vulgar reproach , Pursue their debauch . Elizium's a grief and a torment , compar'd To those that can prove , The enjoyment of Love , [ Where ] Lovers in raptures do meet a reward . The tales of the ancients , Of Elysian fields are ungrounded , In Loves kind fruition where souls have access , O there's the true bliss . Those conquering beauty's more pleasure afford , To such as are free , At their own liberty , Then Usurers Chests which with plenty are stor'd . Then happy be still , Noble Lads that are nature's adorers , While envy and avarice starve and repine , We'l frolic in Wine . Those that the confinement of Wedlock refuse , May live at their ease , And enjoy when they please , Being free from the strict matrimonial noose . The bawling of brats , Shall not injure his rest nor his quiet , But when with delights his fierce appetite's cloy'd , Then rest is enjoy'd . No wonder why clowns who of sense are debar'd , Remain till they die , Like a Hog in a Stye , And ne'r understand a brisk Lovers reward . 'Tis those that have souls , Of the modish new stamp that are witty , All others are drudges and never are blessed , Till death gives them rest . 'Tis Love that does give us true sense of our life , And makes us proceed , In each generous deed , Protected with love , or are freed from all strife . But those that ne'r knew , The delights of and amorous Lover , Can't truly be said to have liv'd out and hour , If free'd from Loves power . Those that for abundance do match with a wife , Are troubled with and itch , To be wealthy and rich , Which keeps them in torment all days of their life . They never enjoy , But still grumble at every misfortune , While wisdom creates in a generous mind , Joys they cannot find . God Cupid for ever thy name I'le adore , For now I can see , That in thy Deity , Are blessings ( for those that deserve them ) in store . A passion that's noble , Shall ever receive satisfaction , But ignorant fools who abandon thy name , Extinguish their flame . In liberty all men have cause to rejoice , If mingled with Love , Ever happy 'twill prove , What fops do count folly , we think our best choice . A cup of the creature , Will make our bloods warmer and warmer , Like senseless Fanatics we'l never repine , Of Love and good Wine . Printed for E. Oliver , at the Golden-Key , on Snow-hill , over-a-gainst St. Sepulchres Church . 