Amorous Bettys Deligh OR , No Name can compare unto Sweet William . This Maid hath chosen , she does think , the best , Yet other Mai [ worser ] ens may do what they will , Sweet William's the Man she loves , she does protest , And of Kisses plenty he shall have his fill . To a New West-Country Tune , or , The Watermans Delight . By John Wade . COme all you pretty Maids where ever you do dwell : If you'l draw near I will declare what man I do Love well : I have had Suitors store , declare their Names I shall ; But honest Will , i'le say so still he does exceed them all . The first Suitor I had was smiling Anthony ; He was a bonny proper Lad , yet I did him deny : He told me that his wealth and substance was not small : But honest Will , etc Then Robin to me came , who did much honour win : But when that I did know his name [ I woul ] worser not let him in . Though he knocked with might and main at my Window he did call . Yet honest Will , etc , There's What the Weavers Son and Tame the Taylor he : Has made a match a Raze to Run , which shall my true Love be : But though they are at strife , deceive them both I shall , For honest Will , etc Humphery is full of Grief , like to a silly elff . And Roger the Miller that brave thief , will needs go hang himself : All is for th' love of me , but I doubt the Ropes to small : For honest Will , i'le say so still , he does exceed them all . ANd likewise simpering Hugh , he swears by day or nigh Before he'l loose his Love so true he is resolv'd to figh But though he is so stout , and the weakest goes to 'th wal' , Yet honest Will , etc Peter and Simon too might Live well on their means , But this is all the marks they do to follow Whores and Queans : And Roger is as bad , though of stature he is small . So honest Will , etc There's John and Jonathan , some Maids on them do prove : But if they knew what I do know they'd out of doors them shove : For if all be true thats told their Knave [ r ] y is not small . So honest Will , etc The Reason if you'd know I in brief will tell ; Why I do praise sweet W [ i ] l [ l ] ian , or do Love him so well : He is of favour fair , he is neither too short nor tall . So 'tis honest Will , etc He is of a comely feature , for beauty he wants none : He is his father's only heir and well esteemed on : This makes [ ? ] forth his praise , Forty thousand on a row , adorned near so fine , Theres none can make so brave a show like to the Love of mine : Beside he's valiant stout and strong none can him Coward call , So 'tis honest Will , etc Had I ten ships on sail , all laden with Rich Pearl , Away from my Love i'de never steal , but be his dearest Girl : No means should me entice him out on's name to call , For this honest Will , etc For so long as I have Life , or breath Remains in me , I'll be his true and Loving wife , in every degree : His Credit isle not stain , but please him still I shall , For this honest Will , etc And thus you pretty Maids my mind I have you told , How I love he that does love me , far better then Rich Gold : But choose you who you please , to grieve me it never shall , For this honest Will , I'le say so still , that does exceed them all . FINIS . Prtnted for R. Burton , at the Horseshoe in West-smith-field . Amorous Bettys Deligh OR , No Name can compare unto Sweet William . This Maid hath chosen , she does think , the best , Yet other Mai [ worser ] ens may do what they will , Sweet William's the Man she loves , she does protest , And of Kisses plenty he shall have his fill . To a New West-Country Tune , or , The Watermans Delight . By John Wade . COme all you pretty Maids where ever you do dwell : If you'l draw near I will declare what man I do Love well : I have had Suitors store , declare their Names I shall ; But honest Will , i'le say so still he does exceed them all . The first Suitor I had was smiling Anthony ; He was a bonny proper Lad , yet I did him deny : He told me that his wealth and substance was not small : But honest Will , etc Then Robin to me came , who did much honour win : But when that I did know his name [ I woul ] worser not let him in . Though he knocked with might and main at my Window he did call . Yet honest Will , etc , There's What the Weavers Son and Tame the Taylor he : Has made a match a Raze to Run , which shall my true Love be : But though they are at strife , deceive them both I shall , For honest Will , etc Humphery is full of Grief , like to a silly elff . And Roger the Miller that brave thief , will needs go hang himself : All is for th' love of me , but I doubt the Ropes to small : For honest Will , i'le say so still , he does exceed them all . ANd likewise simpering Hugh , he swears by day or nigh Before he'l loose his Love so true he is resolv'd to figh But though he is so stout , and the weakest goes to 'th wal' , Yet honest Will , etc Peter and Simon too might Live well on their means , But this is all the marks they do to follow Whores and Queans : And Roger is as bad , though of stature he is small . So honest Will , etc There's John and Jonathan , some Maids on them do prove : But if they knew what I do know they'd out of doors them shove : For if all be true thats told their Knave [ r ] y is not small . So honest Will , etc The Reason if you'd know I in brief will tell ; Why I do praise sweet W [ i ] l [ l ] ian , or do Love him so well : He is of favour fair , he is neither too short nor tall . So 'tis honest Will , etc He is of a comely feature , for beauty he wants none : He is his father's only heir and well esteemed on : This makes [ ? ] forth his praise , Forty thousand on a row , adorned near so fine , Theres none can make so brave a show like to the Love of mine : Beside he's valiant stout and strong none can him Coward call , So 'tis honest Will , etc Had I ten ships on sail , all laden with Rich Pearl , Away from my Love i'de never steal , but be his dearest Girl : No means should me entice him out on's name to call , For this honest Will , etc For so long as I have Life , or breath Remains in me , I'll be his true and Loving wife , in every degree : His Credit isle not stain , but please him still I shall , For this honest Will , etc And thus you pretty Maids my mind I have you told , How I love he that does love me , far better then Rich Gold : But choose you who you please , to grieve me it never shall , For this honest Will , I'le say so still , that does exceed them all . FINIS . Prtnted for R. Burton , at the Horseshoe in West-smith-field . 