Fancy's Freedom . OR The true Lovers bliss . Exactly set forth in the faithful and constant affection of a Gentleman's daughter , who fell in Love with her Father's Servingman , she having a Thousand pound left her by and Uncle , and how they were married ( notwithstanding all oppo sition ) and liv'd happily to their hearts content . In spite of Fate True Love shall crowned be And wear a Garland for its loyalty . Tune of , Amarillis , or , Phillis on the new made hay , etc ALL in the West of England fair I herd a story of a pair , Of Lovers that united were , in heart and true affection , 'Twas Cupids darts did wound their hearts and brought them in subjection . A young man being left forlorn Though of good Parents he was born , Yet did he count it for no scorn to look out for a Master , For every soar must have a salve and every wound a Plaster . He many days had not remain'd Before a service he had gain'd And bravely he was entertain'd the story is apparent , A Master free , of high degree did take him for his servant . Where he behav'd himself so well That all the rest he did excel : Now who but John must bear the b [ e ] ll his Master lov'd him dearly : Both great and small would for him call 'twas he they fancy'd clearly . BUt mark what after came to pass , His Master's only Daughter was , A gallant buxom lively Lass and fancy'd John most neatly , Cause he was gay , and knew the way to please a Maid completely . O John quoth she , I must be bold My mind to thee for to unfold , Thy Love I valve more then Gold then prithee John befriend me , For why thou hast my heart in hold grant love or death will end me . When John had herd her speak the same He thought it best to mind his game , Quoth he most dear , and Lady fair I think you do but jeer me , To bring me into Cupids snare and leave me there I fear it . Beside you know my fortune's low , And you are far to high to bow , If that your father should it know , what think you would betide me , Some woeful fate beside his would [ tO ] e he never would abide me . Pish fie quoth she you know I have , Enough to keep us fine and brave What though my father tear and rave we need not fear his anger , Since we have Gold thou mayest be bold therefore delay no longer . A thousand pound my own must be Lent by my Uncle unto me , All which I freely give to thee if thou wilt join in marriage , Because I see , thou art to me a man of comely carriage . Then Lady her's my heart and hand I am your servant at command , Your meaning well I understand which sets my heart on fire , Though friends oppose , I fear no foes you shall have your desire . And then they did exchange a kiss In token of true Lovers bliss And there agreed that with all speed in haste they will be married , Because delays does danger breed they long enough had tarried . Next morning John did steal away His dearest love and Lady gay , While the Sun shin'd for to make hay for fear of blustering weather , Where at that tide , he wed his bride and they were joyn'd together . But when her father herd the news For very grief he could not choose , I do presume but fret and fume he a [ l ] most was distracted , Because his only Daughter was unto his man contracted . But by persuasions of a friend They brought the matter to good end Her father he at last did bend and yielded to assist them Since 'twas too late , to cross their fate or strive for to resist them . And now they live in mirth and joy Free from care and all annoy , Belov'd of all both great and small the Country round about them , The old man he will not agree to live one day without them . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden-Lyon in Duck-Lane Fancy's Freedom . OR The true Lovers bliss . Exactly set forth in the faithful and constant affection of a Gentleman's daughter , who fell in Love with her Father's Servingman , she having a Thousand pound left her by and Uncle , and how they were married ( notwithstanding all oppo sition ) and liv'd happily to their hearts content . In spite of Fate True Love shall crowned be And wear a Garland for its loyalty . Tune of , Amarillis , or , Phillis on the new made hay , etc ALL in the West of England fair I herd a story of a pair , Of Lovers that united were , in heart and true affection , 'Twas Cupids darts did wound their hearts and brought them in subjection . A young man being left forlorn Though of good Parents he was born , Yet did he count it for no scorn to look out for a Master , For every soar must have a salve and every wound a Plaster . He many days had not remain'd Before a service he had gain'd And bravely he was entertain'd the story is apparent , A Master free , of high degree did take him for his servant . Where he behav'd himself so well That all the rest he did excel : Now who but John must bear the b [ e ] ll his Master lov'd him dearly : Both great and small would for him call 'twas he they fancy'd clearly . BUt mark what after came to pass , His Master's only Daughter was , A gallant buxom lively Lass and fancy'd John most neatly , Cause he was gay , and knew the way to please a Maid completely . O John quoth she , I must be bold My mind to thee for to unfold , Thy Love I valve more then Gold then prithee John befriend me , For why thou hast my heart in hold grant love or death will end me . When John had herd her speak the same He thought it best to mind his game , Quoth he most dear , and Lady fair I think you do but jeer me , To bring me into Cupids snare and leave me there I fear it . Beside you know my fortune's low , And you are far to high to bow , If that your father should it know , what think you would betide me , Some woeful fate beside his would [ tO ] e he never would abide me . Pish fie quoth she you know I have , Enough to keep us fine and brave What though my father tear and rave we need not fear his anger , Since we have Gold thou mayest be bold therefore delay no longer . A thousand pound my own must be Lent by my Uncle unto me , All which I freely give to thee if thou wilt join in marriage , Because I see , thou art to me a man of comely carriage . Then Lady her's my heart and hand I am your servant at command , Your meaning well I understand which sets my heart on fire , Though friends oppose , I fear no foes you shall have your desire . And then they did exchange a kiss In token of true Lovers bliss And there agreed that with all speed in haste they will be married , Because delays does danger breed they long enough had tarried . Next morning John did steal away His dearest love and Lady gay , While the Sun shin'd for to make hay for fear of blustering weather , Where at that tide , he wed his bride and they were joyn'd together . But when her father herd the news For very grief he could not choose , I do presume but fret and fume he a [ l ] most was distracted , Because his only Daughter was unto his man contracted . But by persuasions of a friend They brought the matter to good end Her father he at last did bend and yielded to assist them Since 'twas too late , to cross their fate or strive for to resist them . And now they live in mirth and joy Free from care and all annoy , Belov'd of all both great and small the Country round about them , The old man he will not agree to live one day without them . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden-Lyon in Duck-Lane 