A Trial of True Love : Or , The Loyal Damosels Resolution . Wherein she does declare , her Mind is such , No Pains or Travel she at all will grutch ; To follow her dear Love , in Weal or Woe , To the Remotest Climate she will go : A Pattern to all Maidens , for to see , The sweet Effects of Love and Constancy . Tune of , The Flatteries of Fate : Or , Jenny , Jenny , etc YOu Loyal young Damosels whose Lovers are bent , To serve in the wars with a valiant intent , Hear my resolution where ever you be , And say that my mind is a Kingdom to me . I still will be constant And true to my Friend , For I will go with my love To the world's end . I can have no Comfort in staying behind , But Sorrows and Anguish to trouble my mind , Therefore for my fancy with him I will go Who now is my dearest and ever was so . I still will be constant etc Since he is resolved his foes to Engage , Although that I am but of a tender Age , His loving Sweet company I'le not forgo , But I will march with him in weal or in woe . I still will be Constant etc I valve not dangers my temper is free All hardship whatever to take patiently , I'le find a reward for my Labour and pain If once we return to old England again . Therefore I'le be constant And true to my friend , For I will go with my love To the world's end . THe wars they are Irksome to Maidens we know , But yet so much love to my dearest I owe , That I am contented with him to abide , And never forsake him what ever betide . I still will be constant And true to my Friend , For I will go with my love To the world's end . His Love and his valour to me hath been shown , His virtue , and Courage , through England is known , To fight for his King he will venture his blood . And I my self with him will cross the Salt Flood , I still will be constant etc If that I were minded to tarry behind , I might have a Husband , though not to my mind , But for his dear sake I will venture my life So he will be faithful and make me his wife , I still will be constant etc In France or in Flanders , where ever it be , In storms and in Tempests , in crossing the Sea , With patience I'le Suffer what falls to my Share , No hardship nor danger with love may compare . I still will be constant etc Then father , and mother I pray be content , Of my Resolution I ne'r shall repent , Then grant me your Blessing pray let it be so , That well I may prosper where ever I go . I still will be constant etc Dear Brother , and Sister , it grieveth my heart That from my relations I now must depart , But I am in hope's for to see you again , If that I do live To come over the Main , I still will be constant , etc Parthenia to Argulas ne'ar was more free Then I will unto my dear constant ever be , This love that does cause me such dangers to try , Since I am not fearful But willing to die , I still will be Constant , etc And now my own dearest to thee I declare , That I am resov'd in thy fortune to Share , Then let thy kind answer all sorrows remove , That I may have pleasure and joy in thy love . For I will be Constant And true to my Friend , And I will go with my Love To the World's end . London , Pirnted for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . A Trial of True Love : Or , The Loyal Damosels Resolution . Wherein she does declare , her Mind is such , No Pains or Travel she at all will grutch ; To follow her dear Love , in Weal or Woe , To the Remotest Climate she will go : A Pattern to all Maidens , for to see , The sweet Effects of Love and Constancy . Tune of , The Flatteries of Fate : Or , Jenny , Jenny , etc YOu Loyal young Damosels whose Lovers are bent , To serve in the wars with a valiant intent , Hear my resolution where ever you be , And say that my mind is a Kingdom to me . I still will be constant And true to my Friend , For I will go with my love To the world's end . I can have no Comfort in staying behind , But Sorrows and Anguish to trouble my mind , Therefore for my fancy with him I will go Who now is my dearest and ever was so . I still will be constant etc Since he is resolved his foes to Engage , Although that I am but of a tender Age , His loving Sweet company I'le not forgo , But I will march with him in weal or in woe . I still will be Constant etc I valve not dangers my temper is free All hardship whatever to take patiently , I'le find a reward for my Labour and pain If once we return to old England again . Therefore I'le be constant And true to my friend , For I will go with my love To the world's end . THe wars they are Irksome to Maidens we know , But yet so much love to my dearest I owe , That I am contented with him to abide , And never forsake him what ever betide . I still will be constant And true to my Friend , For I will go with my love To the world's end . His Love and his valour to me hath been shown , His virtue , and Courage , through England is known , To fight for his King he will venture his blood . And I my self with him will cross the Salt Flood , I still will be constant etc If that I were minded to tarry behind , I might have a Husband , though not to my mind , But for his dear sake I will venture my life So he will be faithful and make me his wife , I still will be constant etc In France or in Flanders , where ever it be , In storms and in Tempests , in crossing the Sea , With patience I'le Suffer what falls to my Share , No hardship nor danger with love may compare . I still will be constant etc Then father , and mother I pray be content , Of my Resolution I ne'r shall repent , Then grant me your Blessing pray let it be so , That well I may prosper where ever I go . I still will be constant etc Dear Brother , and Sister , it grieveth my heart That from my relations I now must depart , But I am in hope's for to see you again , If that I do live To come over the Main , I still will be constant , etc Parthenia to Argulas ne'ar was more free Then I will unto my dear constant ever be , This love that does cause me such dangers to try , Since I am not fearful But willing to die , I still will be Constant , etc And now my own dearest to thee I declare , That I am resov'd in thy fortune to Share , Then let thy kind answer all sorrows remove , That I may have pleasure and joy in thy love . For I will be Constant And true to my Friend , And I will go with my Love To the World's end . London , Pirnted for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 