The Two Constant Lovers : Or , A Pattern of true love expressed in this Dialogue between Samuel and Sarah . To a pleasant New Tune . AS I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day : I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say : With a mournful ditty , she began her tale , Which mov'd my heart with pity her for to bewail . Sarah . My Love I have desired for to speak with you , My heart within was fixed , until that I knew : Whither you were living in good health or no : My heart it was Grieved until that I did know . Samuel . What , sweetheart , what ails thee thus for to complain ? Let not ill befall thee thou shalt me obtain : Though I were absented from thee for a space : I'le not be prevented of thy comely face . Sarah . Samuel my own sweating I to thee must tell , In a heavy Greeting what hath us befell : My friends do grudge and murmer and to me they say , That we must part asunder , or else they'l thee destroy . Samuel . My Love be not grieved , though thy friends did frown , Thou shalt be Relieved , none shall put thee down : I for thy sweet favour will adventure much , Though thy friends and brother do against me Grutch . Sarah . O my own dear sweating , I am Griev'd in heart , That I give thee such Greeting for to breed my smar Barnwel my own brother , Captain being he , Swears that of all others killed thou shalt be . Samuel . SArah be not fearful , though thy brother swear , Of thy Life be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwel , though he a Captain be : He shall find that Samuel is as good as he . Sarah . O my Loving Samuel look where he does go , This my brother Barnwel , now begins our woe : Would that we together had not met this day , For my Judas brother will thy Life betray . Now comes Captain Barnwel to these Lovers twain , And made count that Samuel he should soon have slave : But it proved contrary to his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sarah conquest he Resign'd . Then said he to Samuel , what do you make here ? I'm with my sweetheart Sarah , put her not in fear : Barnwel in a fury swore he would prevent , His own Sister Sarah of her hearts content . Sarah . O my brother barnwel let me you entreat , Not to wrong my Samuel in your bloody hea He hath ne'r offended you at any time , Let him not be condemned , save his Life , take mine . I says Captain barnwel , Sarah thou shalt see ; Then he cal'd to Samuel come and answer me : I thy death have vowed e're I further go , Then sweet Sarah bowed , saying , do not so . Samuel . Samuel being heedful of his tyranny , Says , Sarah be not fearful thou anon shalt see : Though thy brother barnwel vow my life to spill , Thou shalt see that Samuel hath both strength and skill . Now these Words being spoken they to Weapons go : Samuel gave him a token with a dreadful blow , And withal enclosed with his Enemy : Then barnwel he supposed that himself should die . Then says Loving Samuel are you now content , I says Captain barnwel and withal consent , That my sister Sarah shall be made thy Wife , So thou wilt but spare me , and not take my Life . Thus in peace they ceased for the present time , Sarah much was eased of her troubled mind : And injoy'd her Samuel to her hearts content , And her brother barnwel gave his free consent . Now these Lovers twain live in joy and peace , Pray Heaven upon them rain , plenty and increase : And all true Lovers wheresoever they be , Aid them with thy favour that have such constancy . Printed for F. Coals , Vere , and J. Wright . The Two Constant Lovers : Or , A Pattern of true love expressed in this Dialogue between Samuel and Sarah . To a pleasant New Tune . AS I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day : I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say : With a mournful ditty , she began her tale , Which mov'd my heart with pity her for to bewail . Sarah . My Love I have desired for to speak with you , My heart within was fixed , until that I knew : Whither you were living in good health or no : My heart it was Grieved until that I did know . Samuel . What , sweetheart , what ails thee thus for to complain ? Let not ill befall thee thou shalt me obtain : Though I were absented from thee for a space : I'le not be prevented of thy comely face . Sarah . Samuel my own sweating I to thee must tell , In a heavy Greeting what hath us befell : My friends do grudge and murmer and to me they say , That we must part asunder , or else they'l thee destroy . Samuel . My Love be not grieved , though thy friends did frown , Thou shalt be Relieved , none shall put thee down : I for thy sweet favour will adventure much , Though thy friends and brother do against me Grutch . Sarah . O my own dear sweating , I am Griev'd in heart , That I give thee such Greeting for to breed my smar Barnwel my own brother , Captain being he , Swears that of all others killed thou shalt be . Samuel . SArah be not fearful , though thy brother swear , Of thy Life be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwel , though he a Captain be : He shall find that Samuel is as good as he . Sarah . O my Loving Samuel look where he does go , This my brother Barnwel , now begins our woe : Would that we together had not met this day , For my Judas brother will thy Life betray . Now comes Captain Barnwel to these Lovers twain , And made count that Samuel he should soon have slave : But it proved contrary to his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sarah conquest he Resign'd . Then said he to Samuel , what do you make here ? I'm with my sweetheart Sarah , put her not in fear : Barnwel in a fury swore he would prevent , His own Sister Sarah of her hearts content . Sarah . O my brother barnwel let me you entreat , Not to wrong my Samuel in your bloody hea He hath ne'r offended you at any time , Let him not be condemned , save his Life , take mine . I says Captain barnwel , Sarah thou shalt see ; Then he cal'd to Samuel come and answer me : I thy death have vowed e're I further go , Then sweet Sarah bowed , saying , do not so . Samuel . Samuel being heedful of his tyranny , Says , Sarah be not fearful thou anon shalt see : Though thy brother barnwel vow my life to spill , Thou shalt see that Samuel hath both strength and skill . Now these Words being spoken they to Weapons go : Samuel gave him a token with a dreadful blow , And withal enclosed with his Enemy : Then barnwel he supposed that himself should die . Then says Loving Samuel are you now content , I says Captain barnwel and withal consent , That my sister Sarah shall be made thy Wife , So thou wilt but spare me , and not take my Life . Thus in peace they ceased for the present time , Sarah much was eased of her troubled mind : And injoy'd her Samuel to her hearts content , And her brother barnwel gave his free consent . Now these Lovers twain live in joy and peace , Pray Heaven upon them rain , plenty and increase : And all true Lovers wheresoever they be , Aid them with thy favour that have such constancy . Printed for F. Coals , Vere , and J. Wright . 