The Willow Green . OR , The Distressed lovers Complaint , because that his true Love Compassion does want . The like to this Ditty was never read , nor seen , For he weareth a Garland all of Willow-Green . To a new Tune , called , The willow green , Sung by Musicians , and in the Theator . YOung men & maids that live in love , come listen to this harmless ditty , And let fancy your hearts move , for to take of me some pity : For unto you I will declare , the strangest thing that e're was seen , Sad happiness to prove my share , now to wear the willow green . I'me almost eighteen years of age , and so deep am fallen in Love ; Nothing can Cupid's fire asuage , except my Dear doe constant prove : Oft did I make suit unto her , in place where we both have been , With sighs and tears I then did woe her though now I wear the willow green . Many gifts I did her proffer , if she would grant love to me , But she refused my kind offer , I could not esteemed be . Behold how my body is wasted , little thought I these days to have seen So deep of loves cup oft have tasted , and now to wear the willow green . Search the stories of old ages , from Adam to this present time , That have fill'd volumes and pages , no men case is like to mine ; For my Love does prove hard hearted , harder then Adamant I ween , And cunningly from me is parted , which makes me wear the willow green . The second Part ; to the same Tune . COme all that bears good will unto me do so much as tell me how , This green garland does become me , which I am forced to wear now : Because obdurate she does prove , whose beauty might become a Queen , And most unfaithful is in Love , which makes me wear the willow green . My love sleeps on another man's pillow , were it but for and hour or two , Then i'de leave off this mournful willow then Love see what I can do : Was ever man more kind in trial , to a Lass then I have been , But she to me does prove disloyal , and makes me wear the willow green . Harder hap had never no man , from the Creation until now : To love a cruel unkind woman , which will to me no love allow . Both day and night I am tormented , no rest long time that I have seen , My torture cannot be prevented , but I must wear the willow green . And some friends have lately told me , which my sad fates much deplore I look like death when they behold me , though I was jovial heretofore : Oh that my lovesick suit was granted , by her that I most esteem . I should enjoy what I long wanted and leave off this willow green My dearest when I do behold thee , as thou passest along the street , In mine arms I wish to enfold thee , with kissee I would thee gree O that thy heart was not obdurate , but in Church we might be seen , And be wedded by and honest Curate , then i'de cast off this willow green . Thou art a Damosel full of beauty , rare perfections dwells in thee , Cupid reports it is my duty , to wait with patient constancy : Many brave Damsels have I viewed , and Lasses rare where I have been , But for thy love I have greatly rued , till death i'le wear the willow green : Fairest of fairest [ I ] thee implore , on thy slave to take some pity : Thou art the Goddess that [ I ] adore , I pray thee read my mournful ditty : For yet e're many days be spent , with thine own eyes it will be seen , When to the grave [ though ] u hast me sent , i'le die wearing the willow green . I hope and answer to receive , e're it be long assuredly , All happiness I thee bequeathe , and I will Love thee till I die : Thus I remain the faithfullest Lover , that ever to this day was seen , direct thine when thou hast read this over to him that wears the willow green . Printed for J. Hose , over-against Staples-Inn in Holbourn . The Willow Green . OR , The Distressed lovers Complaint , because that his true Love Compassion does want . The like to this Ditty was never read , nor seen , For he weareth a Garland all of Willow-Green . To a new Tune , called , The willow green , Sung by Musicians , and in the Theator . YOung men & maids that live in love , come listen to this harmless ditty , And let fancy your hearts move , for to take of me some pity : For unto you I will declare , the strangest thing that e're was seen , Sad happiness to prove my share , now to wear the willow green . I'me almost eighteen years of age , and so deep am fallen in Love ; Nothing can Cupid's fire asuage , except my Dear doe constant prove : Oft did I make suit unto her , in place where we both have been , With sighs and tears I then did woe her though now I wear the willow green . Many gifts I did her proffer , if she would grant love to me , But she refused my kind offer , I could not esteemed be . Behold how my body is wasted , little thought I these days to have seen So deep of loves cup oft have tasted , and now to wear the willow green . Search the stories of old ages , from Adam to this present time , That have fill'd volumes and pages , no men case is like to mine ; For my Love does prove hard hearted , harder then Adamant I ween , And cunningly from me is parted , which makes me wear the willow green . The second Part ; to the same Tune . COme all that bears good will unto me do so much as tell me how , This green garland does become me , which I am forced to wear now : Because obdurate she does prove , whose beauty might become a Queen , And most unfaithful is in Love , which makes me wear the willow green . My love sleeps on another man's pillow , were it but for and hour or two , Then i'de leave off this mournful willow then Love see what I can do : Was ever man more kind in trial , to a Lass then I have been , But she to me does prove disloyal , and makes me wear the willow green . Harder hap had never no man , from the Creation until now : To love a cruel unkind woman , which will to me no love allow . Both day and night I am tormented , no rest long time that I have seen , My torture cannot be prevented , but I must wear the willow green . And some friends have lately told me , which my sad fates much deplore I look like death when they behold me , though I was jovial heretofore : Oh that my lovesick suit was granted , by her that I most esteem . I should enjoy what I long wanted and leave off this willow green My dearest when I do behold thee , as thou passest along the street , In mine arms I wish to enfold thee , with kissee I would thee gree O that thy heart was not obdurate , but in Church we might be seen , And be wedded by and honest Curate , then i'de cast off this willow green . Thou art a Damosel full of beauty , rare perfections dwells in thee , Cupid reports it is my duty , to wait with patient constancy : Many brave Damsels have I viewed , and Lasses rare where I have been , But for thy love I have greatly rued , till death i'le wear the willow green : Fairest of fairest [ I ] thee implore , on thy slave to take some pity : Thou art the Goddess that [ I ] adore , I pray thee read my mournful ditty : For yet e're many days be spent , with thine own eyes it will be seen , When to the grave [ though ] u hast me sent , i'le die wearing the willow green . I hope and answer to receive , e're it be long assuredly , All happiness I thee bequeathe , and I will Love thee till I die : Thus I remain the faithfullest Lover , that ever to this day was seen , direct thine when thou hast read this over to him that wears the willow green . Printed for J. Hose , over-against Staples-Inn in Holbourn . 