The down Right Wooing , OF , Country William and his pretty Peggy , William wooes Peggy but Peggys a girl That will not be wooed by Knight nor by Earl , But William he tells her what means he have And that will maintain her both gallant and brave : At last she consents for to be his own And that to all lovers the same shall be known . The Tune is , A Fig for France . COme prithee Peggy let's embrace thou art a lusty bouncing lass , Thou art thy Mother's only joy And i'me my Father's prettiest Boy Let's make a match together I trow : Since one another we do know My Father'l give me a portion Round , I'me sure 'twill be worth ten good pound . Sweet Peg thou'st hear what means I have And more to it I mean to save , I have ten Sheep also their lambs The which are sucking of their dams : I've a good bed to lays both in And a wheel my dear for thee to spin I've brought old finch my Mother's Cow For to Milk her thou dost know how . One thing my Peggy I have forgotten I have indeed a good Porridge pot , Dishes I have some two or three And spoons will serve both thee and me : What I want else I will provide So thoul't consent to be my Bride , I ne're can sleep not half th' night To think of Peggy my hearts delight . Peggy . In faith Willy thou dost not jest For Lovers I know can take no Rest But William I fear thoul't prove a Sot , The worse then sure will be my lot Thou hast such whimsies in thy : I know sometime you do woe Kate Then you leave h [ e ] r and come to me , Fie Will such doings should not be . Beside your means and your atire Deserves a wife a great deal higher , You'l hit me o'th teeth when 'tis done That you brought all and I borough none Therefore I think that it 'tis bes To leave your suit and let it Rest For in faith I cannot fancy thee What ever does become of me . William . O Peggy why dost thou say so Thoul't surely make thy friend thy foe , Your mocks and jeers I can't abide I am plain dealing time and tide , Beside you do tell me of Kate I'le rather thou would break my pa [ tO ] e For this same thing I do protest Thou art the Girl that I love best . Therefore sweet Peggy be content Thou'st have no cause for to repent , I'le do what's fitting to be done I'le prove to thee a loving Man : No beauty shall m [ y ] h [ e ] art ensnare From her whom I do love so dear , All this sweet Peggy thou'st find true Change not thy old love for a new . Peggy . But one thing Will I have to say And that tell me without delay , Since your disposed to be wed I doubt i'th night the [ u ] 'l foul your bed , Such a thing I much as fear For I a him [ nt ] of it did hear : Therefore Will come tell me true Or I shall bid you straight adieu . William . Surely Peggy thou'rt in thy fits Or else thou art beside thy wits , Dost think I am a man or beast That can't lie cleanly in my neas What fool has tickled thee in thy ear The same I pray thee let me hear , No Peg that thing shall never be For I can lie as clean as thee . Peggy . Will why are you in such a freat Or to be a passion great , I dream'd the same I tell to you Sometime I find that dreams are true Then blame me not for saying so , Though love will creep where it cannot go Be sure i'le look before I leap : lest sorrows on me they should heap . William . Sorrow I hope will not come near My Love my joy my Duck my Dear , I'le swear thou art my hearts delight I fancy thee both day and nigh Father and Mother never shall move My heart from Peggy whom I love , Therefore sweet Peg make no delay But let's ap [ oh ] int our Wedding day . Peggy . Now Will thou puts me to a stand Y [ e ] tO take my hea [ r ] tO also my hand , And for to shun all further strife I'le be that [ y ] true and loving wife . William . Now Peg thou'st pleased me so well That to thy comfort I will tell , All things fitting we will provide Next Thursday thou shalt be my Bride . FINIS . With Allowance . Printed for W. Thackeray living near the Crown Tavern in Duck-Lane . The down Right Wooing , OF , Country William and his pretty Peggy , William wooes Peggy but Peggys a girl That will not be wooed by Knight nor by Earl , But William he tells her what means he have And that will maintain her both gallant and brave : At last she consents for to be his own And that to all lovers the same shall be known . The Tune is , A Fig for France . COme prithee Peggy let's embrace thou art a lusty bouncing lass , Thou art thy Mother's only joy And i'me my Father's prettiest Boy Let's make a match together I trow : Since one another we do know My Father'l give me a portion Round , I'me sure 'twill be worth ten good pound . Sweet Peg thou'st hear what means I have And more to it I mean to save , I have ten Sheep also their lambs The which are sucking of their dams : I've a good bed to lays both in And a wheel my dear for thee to spin I've brought old finch my Mother's Cow For to Milk her thou dost know how . One thing my Peggy I have forgotten I have indeed a good Porridge pot , Dishes I have some two or three And spoons will serve both thee and me : What I want else I will provide So thoul't consent to be my Bride , I ne're can sleep not half th' night To think of Peggy my hearts delight . Peggy . In faith Willy thou dost not jest For Lovers I know can take no Rest But William I fear thoul't prove a Sot , The worse then sure will be my lot Thou hast such whimsies in thy : I know sometime you do woe Kate Then you leave h [ e ] r and come to me , Fie Will such doings should not be . Beside your means and your atire Deserves a wife a great deal higher , You'l hit me o'th teeth when 'tis done That you brought all and I borough none Therefore I think that it 'tis bes To leave your suit and let it Rest For in faith I cannot fancy thee What ever does become of me . William . O Peggy why dost thou say so Thoul't surely make thy friend thy foe , Your mocks and jeers I can't abide I am plain dealing time and tide , Beside you do tell me of Kate I'le rather thou would break my pa [ tO ] e For this same thing I do protest Thou art the Girl that I love best . Therefore sweet Peggy be content Thou'st have no cause for to repent , I'le do what's fitting to be done I'le prove to thee a loving Man : No beauty shall m [ y ] h [ e ] art ensnare From her whom I do love so dear , All this sweet Peggy thou'st find true Change not thy old love for a new . Peggy . But one thing Will I have to say And that tell me without delay , Since your disposed to be wed I doubt i'th night the [ u ] 'l foul your bed , Such a thing I much as fear For I a him [ nt ] of it did hear : Therefore Will come tell me true Or I shall bid you straight adieu . William . Surely Peggy thou'rt in thy fits Or else thou art beside thy wits , Dost think I am a man or beast That can't lie cleanly in my neas What fool has tickled thee in thy ear The same I pray thee let me hear , No Peg that thing shall never be For I can lie as clean as thee . Peggy . Will why are you in such a freat Or to be a passion great , I dream'd the same I tell to you Sometime I find that dreams are true Then blame me not for saying so , Though love will creep where it cannot go Be sure i'le look before I leap : lest sorrows on me they should heap . William . Sorrow I hope will not come near My Love my joy my Duck my Dear , I'le swear thou art my hearts delight I fancy thee both day and nigh Father and Mother never shall move My heart from Peggy whom I love , Therefore sweet Peg make no delay But let's ap [ oh ] int our Wedding day . Peggy . Now Will thou puts me to a stand Y [ e ] tO take my hea [ r ] tO also my hand , And for to shun all further strife I'le be that [ y ] true and loving wife . William . Now Peg thou'st pleased me so well That to thy comfort I will tell , All things fitting we will provide Next Thursday thou shalt be my Bride . FINIS . With Allowance . Printed for W. Thackeray living near the Crown Tavern in Duck-Lane . 