Celia's Complaint , for the loss of her Virginity . She by fair words was quickly wone , Amintas prov'd Unkind ; And Celia says , she's quite Undone , Much troubled in her mind . To the Tune of , Philander . DEath quickly come away , and ease me of my pain , The longer here I stay , my Life I must disdain : Such deadly smart , does pierce my heart , no mortal can endure , Then let me die , For certainly , I ne'r shall find a Cure . Amintas he is gone , I am forsaken quite , He was the only Man , in whom I took deligh My Life to me , is Misery , since he is so unkind , He's from me fled , And I half Dead , poor soul , am left behind . I Languish now in Grief by Night , and eke by Day , I can find no Relief , but hourly waste away : Was ever Lass , at this strange pass , or Wounded like to me ; Come quickly Death , To stop my Breath , and end my Misery . I wish I ne'r had seen those eyes that me betray'd , Then surely had I been , a matchless happy Maid : Deluding Tongue , thou did'st me wrong , as well as his fair eyes ; And Conquer'd all , I had a fallen , and ne'r again shall rise . MY spotless Virgins Fort , thou strongly didst assault , My Favour thou didst Court , and this was my great faul So soon to yield , to thee the Field , which did my Honour stain ; And now I cry , Continually , poor Celia Lov'd in vain . You Damsels all beware , take warning now by me , And let not Speeches fair , betray your Honesty : For I , poor I , assuredly , by them too soon was wone : In discontent , I now Lament , alas , I'm quite undone . Ten thousand Sighs and Sobs , [ I ] part with e'ry day , I feel such pangs and Throbs , and so Consume away : That with desire , I burn like fire , to be within thy Grave : Which to obtain , Would be my gain , that's all I now would have . False Youngmen now give-o're , and cease for to betray , Deceive poor Maids no more , who hardly can say nay : But quickly bow , and make a vow , to Love you evermore : Then them you leave , To mourn and grieve , which grieves their hearts full soar . But 'tis a dreadful thing , that you should use them so , Which to their hearts will bring such Sorrow , Grief , and Woe : That often times , maids in their primes , they do themselves destroy : Because they find , Their Loves unkind , and cannot them enjoy . Then dally so no more , with Maidens that are kind , For Blessings in great store , the Honest man shall find : But he that does fly from the Truth , of what he did protes Shall met with be , Assuredly , believe me 'tis no Jest . Printed for Charles Passenger , at the Seven Stars on London-Bridge . Celia's Complaint , for the loss of her Virginity . She by fair words was quickly wone , Amintas prov'd Unkind ; And Celia says , she's quite Undone , Much troubled in her mind . To the Tune of , Philander . DEath quickly come away , and ease me of my pain , The longer here I stay , my Life I must disdain : Such deadly smart , does pierce my heart , no mortal can endure , Then let me die , For certainly , I ne'r shall find a Cure . Amintas he is gone , I am forsaken quite , He was the only Man , in whom I took deligh My Life to me , is Misery , since he is so unkind , He's from me fled , And I half Dead , poor soul , am left behind . I Languish now in Grief by Night , and eke by Day , I can find no Relief , but hourly waste away : Was ever Lass , at this strange pass , or Wounded like to me ; Come quickly Death , To stop my Breath , and end my Misery . I wish I ne'r had seen those eyes that me betray'd , Then surely had I been , a matchless happy Maid : Deluding Tongue , thou did'st me wrong , as well as his fair eyes ; And Conquer'd all , I had a fallen , and ne'r again shall rise . MY spotless Virgins Fort , thou strongly didst assault , My Favour thou didst Court , and this was my great faul So soon to yield , to thee the Field , which did my Honour stain ; And now I cry , Continually , poor Celia Lov'd in vain . You Damsels all beware , take warning now by me , And let not Speeches fair , betray your Honesty : For I , poor I , assuredly , by them too soon was wone : In discontent , I now Lament , alas , I'm quite undone . Ten thousand Sighs and Sobs , [ I ] part with e'ry day , I feel such pangs and Throbs , and so Consume away : That with desire , I burn like fire , to be within thy Grave : Which to obtain , Would be my gain , that's all I now would have . False Youngmen now give-o're , and cease for to betray , Deceive poor Maids no more , who hardly can say nay : But quickly bow , and make a vow , to Love you evermore : Then them you leave , To mourn and grieve , which grieves their hearts full soar . But 'tis a dreadful thing , that you should use them so , Which to their hearts will bring such Sorrow , Grief , and Woe : That often times , maids in their primes , they do themselves destroy : Because they find , Their Loves unkind , and cannot them enjoy . Then dally so no more , with Maidens that are kind , For Blessings in great store , the Honest man shall find : But he that does fly from the Truth , of what he did protes Shall met with be , Assuredly , believe me 'tis no Jest . Printed for Charles Passenger , at the Seven Stars on London-Bridge . The Country FARMER ; OR , THE Buxom VIRGIN . To a New Tune , called , New-Market , or King James's Jig ; THere was a brisk Lass both Bonny and Brown , That courted her Sweet heart , in our Town , She laid by her work , her wheel , and Yarn , To find out her love in the Farmers Barn , Quoth she , if thou wilt be married , We'l high to the Priest , then to bed , My Virgin Treasure i'le give thee Ned , That is to be plain my Maidenhead . You know that my love is a Flame of Fire , And burns when it cannot obtain desire , My Beauty is now in it's bloom and prime , And I cannot , nor wonnot delay the time : I long for to taste of those tender joys , Those soft Kisses , and wanton Toys , That every Maid in her Wedding enjoys , When Lasses with Lovers get lusty Boys . A Garland of Flowers my love shall wear , And i'le give him a lock of my coal-black-hair , At every Wake my love i'le treat , And i'le give him kind busses as Cream-Bowls sweet ; Thou shalt be my Buck and i'le be thy Doe , And i'le Milk , and thou shalt mow , I'le Carded , and i'le Spin , while you Harrow and sow And call upon Dobbin with Hey-ge-woe . Quoth Ned , for your Love I take no care , But busy my self with my Blow , and Mare . Young Cupid I think is a lazy Loon , And beside I intend for to marry Joan ? Quoth Nell , as for Joan she will never Wed , She lies like and Eunuch in her dull Bed , She's ugly , and Old , looks paler then Led , Not like a Brisk Lass of a Woman bred . Young Colin upon Martilla's Cheeks A thousand delightful pleasures seeks , He kisses her of't by her own goodwill , And will scarcely once let her all night lie still : Come touch but my lips , with those lips of thine , They are all melting , and all divine , Like Grapes that appear on the Springing Vine , As plump , and as soft , and as sweet as thine . My dearest quoth Ned , i'le but clout my shoone , And we will be Married before 'tis noon : I'le go to the Church and a License bring , And buy thee a dainty fine Golden Ring : I'le give thee to ride on my pacing Roan , With the Gray Pillian I lent to Joan , Ah! ways me poor Jug , how will she make moan , That Fate has design'd her to lie alone . While Jug feels the pains of Cupids Dart , That wounds the breast of each Lovers heart , She'l fit and she'l sighs upon the Plain , And rehearse her disloyal Shepherd's name , While thee my dear Gill in my arms i'le hug , And hide thee in the soft Sheet and Rugg , Poor Joan shall look pale , that never looked smugg , Adieu to my gentle sweet Jugg-Jugg-Jugg . Though Juggy be crusty what need I care , For she may have Lovers enough to spare , But now she is lately so sour grown , She minds not the youngmen that make their more [ and ] Yet lusty for Life , and full of good will , I was yesterday , so I am still , I'll bring all my Grist to my true Lovers Mill , And hug and make much of my Gill , Gill , Gill. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner [ . ] The Country FARMER ; OR , THE Buxom VIRGIN . To a New Tune , called , New-Market , or King James's Jig ; THere was a brisk Lass both Bonny and Brown , That courted her Sweet heart , in our Town , She laid by her work , her wheel , and Yarn , To find out her love in the Farmers Barn , Quoth she , if thou wilt be married , We'l high to the Priest , then to bed , My Virgin Treasure i'le give thee Ned , That is to be plain my Maidenhead . You know that my love is a Flame of Fire , And burns when it cannot obtain desire , My Beauty is now in it's bloom and prime , And I cannot , nor wonnot delay the time : I long for to taste of those tender joys , Those soft Kisses , and wanton Toys , That every Maid in her Wedding enjoys , When Lasses with Lovers get lusty Boys . A Garland of Flowers my love shall wear , And i'le give him a lock of my coal-black-hair , At every Wake my love i'le treat , And i'le give him kind busses as Cream-Bowls sweet ; Thou shalt be my Buck and i'le be thy Doe , And i'le Milk , and thou shalt mow , I'le Carded , and i'le Spin , while you Harrow and sow And call upon Dobbin with Hey-ge-woe . Quoth Ned , for your Love I take no care , But busy my self with my Blow , and Mare . Young Cupid I think is a lazy Loon , And beside I intend for to marry Joan ? Quoth Nell , as for Joan she will never Wed , She lies like and Eunuch in her dull Bed , She's ugly , and Old , looks paler then Led , Not like a Brisk Lass of a Woman bred . Young Colin upon Martilla's Cheeks A thousand delightful pleasures seeks , He kisses her of't by her own goodwill , And will scarcely once let her all night lie still : Come touch but my lips , with those lips of thine , They are all melting , and all divine , Like Grapes that appear on the Springing Vine , As plump , and as soft , and as sweet as thine . My dearest quoth Ned , i'le but clout my shoone , And we will be Married before 'tis noon : I'le go to the Church and a License bring , And buy thee a dainty fine Golden Ring : I'le give thee to ride on my pacing Roan , With the Gray Pillian I lent to Joan , Ah! ways me poor Jug , how will she make moan , That Fate has design'd her to lie alone . While Jug feels the pains of Cupids Dart , That wounds the breast of each Lovers heart , She'l fit and she'l sighs upon the Plain , And rehearse her disloyal Shepherd's name , While thee my dear Gill in my arms i'le hug , And hide thee in the soft Sheet and Rugg , Poor Joan shall look pale , that never looked smugg , Adieu to my gentle sweet Jugg-Jugg-Jugg . Though Juggy be crusty what need I care , For she may have Lovers enough to spare , But now she is lately so sour grown , She minds not the youngmen that make their more [ and ] Yet lusty for Life , and full of good will , I was yesterday , so I am still , I'll bring all my Grist to my true Lovers Mill , And hug and make much of my Gill , Gill , Gill. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner [ . ] Celia's Complaint , for the loss of her Virginity . She by fair words was quickly wone , Amintas prov'd Unkind ; And Celia says , she's quite Undone , Much troubled in her mind . To the Tune of , Philander . DEath quickly come away , and ease me of my pain , The longer here I stay , my Life I must disdain : Such deadly smart , does pierce my heart , no mortal can endure , Then let me die , For certainly , I ne'r shall find a Cure . Amintas he is gone , I am forsaken quite , He was the only Man , in whom I took deligh My Life to me , is Misery , since he is so unkind , He's from me fled , And I half Dead , poor soul , am left behind . I Languish now in Grief by Night , and eke by Day , I can find no Relief , but hourly waste away : Was ever Lass , at this strange pass , or Wounded like to me ; Come quickly Death , To stop my Breath , and end my Misery . I wish I ne'r had seen those eyes that me betray'd , Then surely had I been , a matchless happy Maid : Deluding Tongue , thou did'st me wrong , as well as his fair eyes ; And Conquer'd all , I had a fallen , and ne'r again shall rise . MY spotless Virgins Fort , thou strongly didst assault , My Favour thou didst Court , and this was my great faul So soon to yield , to thee the Field , which did my Honour stain ; And now I cry , Continually , poor Celia Lov'd in vain . You Damsels all beware , take warning now by me , And let not Speeches fair , betray your Honesty : For I , poor I , assuredly , by them too soon was wone : In discontent , I now Lament , alas , I'm quite undone . Ten thousand Sighs and Sobs , [ I ] part with e'ry day , I feel such pangs and Throbs , and so Consume away : That with desire , I burn like fire , to be within thy Grave : Which to obtain , Would be my gain , that's all I now would have . False Youngmen now give-o're , and cease for to betray , Deceive poor Maids no more , who hardly can say nay : But quickly bow , and make a vow , to Love you evermore : Then them you leave , To mourn and grieve , which grieves their hearts full soar . But 'tis a dreadful thing , that you should use them so , Which to their hearts will bring such Sorrow , Grief , and Woe : That often times , maids in their primes , they do themselves destroy : Because they find , Their Loves unkind , and cannot them enjoy . Then dally so no more , with Maidens that are kind , For Blessings in great store , the Honest man shall find : But he that does fly from the Truth , of what he did protes Shall met with be , Assuredly , believe me 'tis no Jest . Printed for Charles Passenger , at the Seven Stars on London-Bridge . Celia's Complaint , for the loss of her Virginity . She by fair words was quickly wone , Amintas prov'd Unkind ; And Celia says , she's quite Undone , Much troubled in her mind . To the Tune of , Philander . DEath quickly come away , and ease me of my pain , The longer here I stay , my Life I must disdain : Such deadly smart , does pierce my heart , no mortal can endure , Then let me die , For certainly , I ne'r shall find a Cure . Amintas he is gone , I am forsaken quite , He was the only Man , in whom I took deligh My Life to me , is Misery , since he is so unkind , He's from me fled , And I half Dead , poor soul , am left behind . I Languish now in Grief by Night , and eke by Day , I can find no Relief , but hourly waste away : Was ever Lass , at this strange pass , or Wounded like to me ; Come quickly Death , To stop my Breath , and end my Misery . I wish I ne'r had seen those eyes that me betray'd , Then surely had I been , a matchless happy Maid : Deluding Tongue , thou did'st me wrong , as well as his fair eyes ; And Conquer'd all , I had a fallen , and ne'r again shall rise . MY spotless Virgins Fort , thou strongly didst assault , My Favour thou didst Court , and this was my great faul So soon to yield , to thee the Field , which did my Honour stain ; And now I cry , Continually , poor Celia Lov'd in vain . You Damsels all beware , take warning now by me , And let not Speeches fair , betray your Honesty : For I , poor I , assuredly , by them too soon was wone : In discontent , I now Lament , alas , I'm quite undone . Ten thousand Sighs and Sobs , [ I ] part with e'ry day , I feel such pangs and Throbs , and so Consume away : That with desire , I burn like fire , to be within thy Grave : Which to obtain , Would be my gain , that's all I now would have . False Youngmen now give-o're , and cease for to betray , Deceive poor Maids no more , who hardly can say nay : But quickly bow , and make a vow , to Love you evermore : Then them you leave , To mourn and grieve , which grieves their hearts full soar . But 'tis a dreadful thing , that you should use them so , Which to their hearts will bring such Sorrow , Grief , and Woe : That often times , maids in their primes , they do themselves destroy : Because they find , Their Loves unkind , and cannot them enjoy . Then dally so no more , with Maidens that are kind , For Blessings in great store , the Honest man shall find : But he that does fly from the Truth , of what he did protes Shall met with be , Assuredly , believe me 'tis no Jest . Printed for Charles Passenger , at the Seven Stars on London-Bridge . 