Come turn to me thou pretty little one , and I will turn to thee . To a pleasant new Tune . SWeet if thou wilt be As I am to thee , Then by Cupids Mother , I have vow'd to have none other she : Then turn to me thou pretty little one , And I will turn to thee . Those bright eyes of thine Which do dazzle mine , Like the stars of Heaven , Which do keep their even course and shine : Then let us in conjunction meet and both our loves combine . If that lovely Face , Will to mine give place , That with loves devotion We may use the motion of embrace : Then fit thee down my pretty little one and let us love a space . What hurt is this ? For to take a kiss If it may be granted ; I that long have wanted such a bliss : Then be not sparing of a few whereas such plenty is . If thy breasts do pant For the milk they want , Every Hill and Mountain To supply each Fountain , be not scan Then give to me thy lily white hand , and I thee mine will grant . If so be that I , May but thee come nigh , The Vine , and Elm shall never , Join more close together then will I , Then show thy fruits my amorous joy and I'll with love supply . If that thou dost crave ; Silks and Garments brave Or what rich attire : Could thy heart desire to receive : Declare to me thou pretty little one , thou canst but ask and have . From the Indies far , Where rich Jewels are I will bring thee treasure Far beyond all measure and compare : Then be not coy my pretty little one for I no cost will spare SWeet-heart for thy sake , I will never make , Choice of any other , Then by Cupids Mother ; freely speak : It's at thy choice my dearest Love , either to leave or take . I thy Mary gold ; Wrapped in many fold , Like the golden Client , To the Sun supplient , show it's gold : Display the beams my glorious Sun , and I'le to thee unfold . Those bright locks of hair , Spreading o're each ear , Every crisp and curl ; Far more rich then pearl , does appear : Then be thou constant in thy love , and I will be thy Dear , Till I have possessed , Thee whom I love best , I have vow'd for ever , In thy absence never , to take res Deny me not thou pretty little one , In whom my hope's are blessed . If a kiss or two , Can thee a favour do , Were it more then twenty , Love's indu'd with plenty ; Lovers know : For thy sweet sake a thousand take , for that's the way to woo . It does grieve my heart , From thee for to part ; It is to me more pleasant , Ever to be present , where thou are Yet in the absence of a friend , my love shall never start , As to me thou art kind , Duty shall me bind , Ever to obey thee , Reason so does sway me , to thy mind : Thou hast my heart where e're thou art , although I stay behind . In thy bed or bark , I will be thy mark . Couples yet more loving , Never had their moving ; from the Ark : Welcome to me my only joy , all times , be it light or dark , London , Printed for W. Thackaray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . Come turn to me thou pretty little one , and I will turn to thee . To a pleasant new Tune . SWeet if thou wilt be As I am to thee , Then by Cupids Mother , I have vow'd to have none other she : Then turn to me thou pretty little one , And I will turn to thee . Those bright eyes of thine Which do dazzle mine , Like the stars of Heaven , Which do keep their even course and shine : Then let us in conjunction meet and both our loves combine . If that lovely Face , Will to mine give place , That with loves devotion We may use the motion of embrace : Then fit thee down my pretty little one and let us love a space . What hurt is this ? For to take a kiss If it may be granted ; I that long have wanted such a bliss : Then be not sparing of a few whereas such plenty is . If thy breasts do pant For the milk they want , Every Hill and Mountain To supply each Fountain , be not scan Then give to me thy lily white hand , and I thee mine will grant . If so be that I , May but thee come nigh , The Vine , and Elm shall never , Join more close together then will I , Then show thy fruits my amorous joy and I'll with love supply . If that thou dost crave ; Silks and Garments brave Or what rich attire : Could thy heart desire to receive : Declare to me thou pretty little one , thou canst but ask and have . From the Indies far , Where rich Jewels are I will bring thee treasure Far beyond all measure and compare : Then be not coy my pretty little one for I no cost will spare SWeet-heart for thy sake , I will never make , Choice of any other , Then by Cupids Mother ; freely speak : It's at thy choice my dearest Love , either to leave or take . I thy Mary gold ; Wrapped in many fold , Like the golden Client , To the Sun supplient , show it's gold : Display the beams my glorious Sun , and I'le to thee unfold . Those bright locks of hair , Spreading o're each ear , Every crisp and curl ; Far more rich then pearl , does appear : Then be thou constant in thy love , and I will be thy Dear , Till I have possessed , Thee whom I love best , I have vow'd for ever , In thy absence never , to take res Deny me not thou pretty little one , In whom my hope's are blessed . If a kiss or two , Can thee a favour do , Were it more then twenty , Love's indu'd with plenty ; Lovers know : For thy sweet sake a thousand take , for that's the way to woo . It does grieve my heart , From thee for to part ; It is to me more pleasant , Ever to be present , where thou are Yet in the absence of a friend , my love shall never start , As to me thou art kind , Duty shall me bind , Ever to obey thee , Reason so does sway me , to thy mind : Thou hast my heart where e're thou art , although I stay behind . In thy bed or bark , I will be thy mark . Couples yet more loving , Never had their moving ; from the Ark : Welcome to me my only joy , all times , be it light or dark , London , Printed for W. Thackaray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 