And Excellent Sonnet of the Unfortunate LOVES , of Hero and Leander . Tune of , Gerards mistress . Hero . HOw fares My fair Leander , Oh vouchsafe to speak , lest my heart break , I banished am from thy sweet company , This not Thy Father's anger can abase my love , I still will prove Thy faithful friend until such time I Die , Though Fate And Fortune does conspire , to interrupt our love In spite of fate and fortune's hate , I still will constant prove , And though Our angry friends in malice , now our bodies parts Nor friends nor foes , nor scars nor blows , shall separate our hearts . Leander . What voice Is this that calls Leander from her Bower , from yonder Tower , The echo of this voice does sure proceed , Hero . Leander . This thy Hero fain would come to thee , if it might be , Thy absence makes my tender heart to bleed , but o This pleasant river Hellisponce , which is the peoples wonder Those waves so high does injury , by parting us asunder . And though There's Ferry men good store yet none will stand my f [ r ] iend , To waft me oh [ ' ] re to that fair shore , where all my grief shall end . Leander . Hero , Though I am thy constant Lover still and ever will , My angry Father is thy Enemy , He still Does strive to keep's asunder now and then , poor Ferry men They dare not waft thee over lest they die , Nor yet Dare they convey me unto my dear Hero now My Father's rage will not asuage , nor will the same allow , Be patient Then dear Hero now as I am true to thee , Even so I trust thou art as just , and faithful unto me . Hero . Is there No way to stay and angry Father's wrath whose fury hath Bereav'd his child of comfort and content . Leander . O no , Dear Hero there's no way that I do know , to ease my Woe , My days of joy and comfort now is spent , You may , As well go tame a Lion in the Wilderness , As to persuade my Father's aid , to help me in distress , His anger And his River hath kept us asunder long . He hath his will , his humour still , and we have all the wrong . Hero . This not Thy Father's anger , nor this River deep , the which shall keep , Me from the imbr [ a ] cements of my dearest friend For through This silver stream , my way I mean to take , even for thy s [ a ] ke , For thy dear sake my dearest life I'le spend , Though waves And winds should both conspire , mine enemies to be , My lov's so strong , I fear no wrong can happen unto me : Oh meet Me in thy Garden , where this pleasant River glides . Lend me thy hand , draw me to Land , what ever me betides . Now must I make my tender slender arms my Oars , help watery powers , Yea little Fish teach me how to swim , And all You sea-nymphs guard me unto yonder banks , I'le give you thanks Bear up my body , strengthen every limb , I come Leander now prepare thy lovely arms for me . I come dear love , assist me Jove , I may so happy be , But o ! A mighty tempest rose , and he was drown'd that Tide , In her fair sighed , his hearts delight , and so with grief she dy'd . But when Her aged Father these things understands , he wrings his hands , And tears his hoary hair from off his head , Society He shuns and does forsake his meat , his grief's so gr [ e ] at , And oft does make the lowly ground his bed , Oh my Leander would that I had dy'd to save thy life , Or that I had when I was sad , made thee brave Hero's wife . It was My trespass , and I do confess I wronged thee ; Posterity shall know hereby , the fault lay all in me . But since The waves have cast his body on the Land , upon the sand , Pis Corpse shall buried be in solemn wise , One grave Shall serve them both , and one most stately tomb , she [ ' ] l m [ a ] ke him room , Although her corpse be breathless where she lies You Father's Have a special care now , whatsoe'r you do , For those that parts true loyal hearts , themselves were never true . Though Fate And fortune cross poor Lovers , sometime as we know , Pray understand , have you no hand even in their overthrow . FINIS . H. Crouch . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . And Excellent Sonnet of the Unfortunate LOVES , of Hero and Leander . Tune of , Gerards mistress . Hero . HOw fares My fair Leander , Oh vouchsafe to speak , lest my heart break , I banished am from thy sweet company , This not Thy Father's anger can abase my love , I still will prove Thy faithful friend until such time I Die , Though Fate And Fortune does conspire , to interrupt our love In spite of fate and fortune's hate , I still will constant prove , And though Our angry friends in malice , now our bodies parts Nor friends nor foes , nor scars nor blows , shall separate our hearts . Leander . What voice Is this that calls Leander from her Bower , from yonder Tower , The echo of this voice does sure proceed , Hero . Leander . This thy Hero fain would come to thee , if it might be , Thy absence makes my tender heart to bleed , but o This pleasant river Hellisponce , which is the peoples wonder Those waves so high does injury , by parting us asunder . And though There's Ferry men good store yet none will stand my f [ r ] iend , To waft me oh [ ' ] re to that fair shore , where all my grief shall end . Leander . Hero , Though I am thy constant Lover still and ever will , My angry Father is thy Enemy , He still Does strive to keep's asunder now and then , poor Ferry men They dare not waft thee over lest they die , Nor yet Dare they convey me unto my dear Hero now My Father's rage will not asuage , nor will the same allow , Be patient Then dear Hero now as I am true to thee , Even so I trust thou art as just , and faithful unto me . Hero . Is there No way to stay and angry Father's wrath whose fury hath Bereav'd his child of comfort and content . Leander . O no , Dear Hero there's no way that I do know , to ease my Woe , My days of joy and comfort now is spent , You may , As well go tame a Lion in the Wilderness , As to persuade my Father's aid , to help me in distress , His anger And his River hath kept us asunder long . He hath his will , his humour still , and we have all the wrong . Hero . This not Thy Father's anger , nor this River deep , the which shall keep , Me from the imbr [ a ] cements of my dearest friend For through This silver stream , my way I mean to take , even for thy s [ a ] ke , For thy dear sake my dearest life I'le spend , Though waves And winds should both conspire , mine enemies to be , My lov's so strong , I fear no wrong can happen unto me : Oh meet Me in thy Garden , where this pleasant River glides . Lend me thy hand , draw me to Land , what ever me betides . Now must I make my tender slender arms my Oars , help watery powers , Yea little Fish teach me how to swim , And all You sea-nymphs guard me unto yonder banks , I'le give you thanks Bear up my body , strengthen every limb , I come Leander now prepare thy lovely arms for me . I come dear love , assist me Jove , I may so happy be , But o ! A mighty tempest rose , and he was drown'd that Tide , In her fair sighed , his hearts delight , and so with grief she dy'd . But when Her aged Father these things understands , he wrings his hands , And tears his hoary hair from off his head , Society He shuns and does forsake his meat , his grief's so gr [ e ] at , And oft does make the lowly ground his bed , Oh my Leander would that I had dy'd to save thy life , Or that I had when I was sad , made thee brave Hero's wife . It was My trespass , and I do confess I wronged thee ; Posterity shall know hereby , the fault lay all in me . But since The waves have cast his body on the Land , upon the sand , Pis Corpse shall buried be in solemn wise , One grave Shall serve them both , and one most stately tomb , she [ ' ] l m [ a ] ke him room , Although her corpse be breathless where she lies You Father's Have a special care now , whatsoe'r you do , For those that parts true loyal hearts , themselves were never true . Though Fate And fortune cross poor Lovers , sometime as we know , Pray understand , have you no hand even in their overthrow . FINIS . H. Crouch . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 