A Lamentable Ballad of the Little Musgrove , and the Lady Barnet . To and Excellent New Tune . AS it fell out on a Holiday , as many more be in the Year , Little Musgrove would to the Church & prey , to see the fair Ladies there : Gallants there were of good degree , for beauty exceeding fair , Most wondrous lovely to the eye , which did to the Church repair . Some came down in read velvet , and some came down in Pale : The next came down the Lady Barnet , the fairest among them all : She cast a look on Little Musgrove , as bright as the Summer's Sun , Full well then perceived Little Musgrove , Lady Barnets Love he had wone . The Lady Barnet meek and mild , saluted this little Musgrove , Who did repay her kind courtesy , with favour and gentle love : I have a Bower in merry Barnet , bestrewed with Cowslips sweet , If that you please Little Musgrove , in Love me there to meet . Within mine arms one night to sleep , for you my love have wone , You need not fear my suspicious Lord , for he from home is gone ; Betide me life , betide me death , this night I will lie with thee , And for thy sake I'le hazard my breath , so dear is my love to thee . What shall we do with our little Foot-page , our counsel for to keep , And watch for fear Lord Barnet come , while we together sleep ? Red Gold shall be his hire , quoth he , and silver shall be his Fee ; So he our counsel safely keep , that I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your Gold , he said , nor none of your silver fee , If I should keep your counsel Sir , 'twere great disloyalty . I will not be false unto my Lord , for house nor yet for Land , But if my Lady prove untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly ran this little Foot-page , unto his Lord with speed , Who then was feasting with his own friends not dreaming of this ill deed : Most speedily the Page did hast , most swiftly he did run , And when he came to the broken bridge , he bent his breast and swum . The Page did make no stay at all , but went to the Lord with speed , That he the truth may say to him , concerning this wicked deed : He found his Lord at Supper then , great merriment they did make , My Lord , quoth he , this night upon my word , Musgrove with your Lady does sleep . IF this be true my little Foot-Page , and true that thou tellest to me , My eldest Daughter i'le give thee , and wedded thou shalt be : If this be a lie my little Foot-Page , and a lie thou tellest to me , A new pair of Gallows shall be set up , and hanged thou shalt be . If this be a lie my Lord ( said he ) and a lie that thou hearest of me , Never stay a pair of Gallows to make , but hang me on the next tree . Lord Barnet call'd his merry men all , away with speed he would go , His heart was so perplex'd with grief , the truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed , he said , and saddle me my white Steed ; If this be true as the Page hath said , Musgrove shall repent this deed : He charged his men to make no noise , as they road along the way , Nor wind no horn ( quoth he ) on your Life , lest our coming it should betray . But one of them that Musgrove did love , and respected his friendship most dear , To give him notice Lord Barnet was come , did wind the Bugle most clear : And evermore as he did found , away Musgrove and away , For if he take thee with my Lady , then slave thou shalt be this day . O hark fair Lady , your Lord is near , I hear his little horn blow , And if he find me in your arms thus , then slave I shall be I know . O lie still , lie still little Musgrove , and keep my back from the cold , I know it is my father's Shepherd , driving Sheep unto the Pinfold . Musgrove did turn him round about , sweet slumber his eyes did greet , When he did awake , he then did espy , Lord Barnet at the beds feet . O rise up , rise up little Musgrove , and put thy clothing on , It never shall be said in England fair , that I slew a naked man . Here's two good swords , Lord Barnet said , the choice Musgrove shall make , The best of them thy self shall have , and I the worst will take ; The first blow Musgrove did strike , he wounded Lord Barnet soar , The second blow Lord Barnet gave , Musgrove could strike no more . He took his Lady by the white hand , all love to rage convert , And with his sword in most furious wise , he pierc'd her tender hear A Grave , a Grave , Lord Barnet cry'd , prepare to lay us in , My Lady shall lie on the upper side , 'cause she is the better Skin . Then suddenly he slew himself , which griev'd his friends full soar , The death of these worthy wights , with tears they did deplore . This sad mischief by lust was wrought , then let us call for grace , That we may shun this wicked vice , and fly from since apace . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright . and J. Clarke . A Lamentable Ballad of the Little Musgrove , and the Lady Barnet . To and Excellent New Tune . AS it fell out on a Holiday , as many more be in the Year , Little Musgrove would to the Church & prey , to see the fair Ladies there : Gallants there were of good degree , for beauty exceeding fair , Most wondrous lovely to the eye , which did to the Church repair . Some came down in read velvet , and some came down in Pale : The next came down the Lady Barnet , the fairest among them all : She cast a look on Little Musgrove , as bright as the Summer's Sun , Full well then perceived Little Musgrove , Lady Barnets Love he had wone . The Lady Barnet meek and mild , saluted this little Musgrove , Who did repay her kind courtesy , with favour and gentle love : I have a Bower in merry Barnet , bestrewed with Cowslips sweet , If that you please Little Musgrove , in Love me there to meet . Within mine arms one night to sleep , for you my love have wone , You need not fear my suspicious Lord , for he from home is gone ; Betide me life , betide me death , this night I will lie with thee , And for thy sake I'le hazard my breath , so dear is my love to thee . What shall we do with our little Foot-page , our counsel for to keep , And watch for fear Lord Barnet come , while we together sleep ? Red Gold shall be his hire , quoth he , and silver shall be his Fee ; So he our counsel safely keep , that I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your Gold , he said , nor none of your silver fee , If I should keep your counsel Sir , 'twere great disloyalty . I will not be false unto my Lord , for house nor yet for Land , But if my Lady prove untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly ran this little Foot-page , unto his Lord with speed , Who then was feasting with his own friends not dreaming of this ill deed : Most speedily the Page did hast , most swiftly he did run , And when he came to the broken bridge , he bent his breast and swum . The Page did make no stay at all , but went to the Lord with speed , That he the truth may say to him , concerning this wicked deed : He found his Lord at Supper then , great merriment they did make , My Lord , quoth he , this night upon my word , Musgrove with your Lady does sleep . IF this be true my little Foot-Page , and true that thou tellest to me , My eldest Daughter i'le give thee , and wedded thou shalt be : If this be a lie my little Foot-Page , and a lie thou tellest to me , A new pair of Gallows shall be set up , and hanged thou shalt be . If this be a lie my Lord ( said he ) and a lie that thou hearest of me , Never stay a pair of Gallows to make , but hang me on the next tree . Lord Barnet call'd his merry men all , away with speed he would go , His heart was so perplex'd with grief , the truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed , he said , and saddle me my white Steed ; If this be true as the Page hath said , Musgrove shall repent this deed : He charged his men to make no noise , as they road along the way , Nor wind no horn ( quoth he ) on your Life , lest our coming it should betray . But one of them that Musgrove did love , and respected his friendship most dear , To give him notice Lord Barnet was come , did wind the Bugle most clear : And evermore as he did found , away Musgrove and away , For if he take thee with my Lady , then slave thou shalt be this day . O hark fair Lady , your Lord is near , I hear his little horn blow , And if he find me in your arms thus , then slave I shall be I know . O lie still , lie still little Musgrove , and keep my back from the cold , I know it is my father's Shepherd , driving Sheep unto the Pinfold . Musgrove did turn him round about , sweet slumber his eyes did greet , When he did awake , he then did espy , Lord Barnet at the beds feet . O rise up , rise up little Musgrove , and put thy clothing on , It never shall be said in England fair , that I slew a naked man . Here's two good swords , Lord Barnet said , the choice Musgrove shall make , The best of them thy self shall have , and I the worst will take ; The first blow Musgrove did strike , he wounded Lord Barnet soar , The second blow Lord Barnet gave , Musgrove could strike no more . He took his Lady by the white hand , all love to rage convert , And with his sword in most furious wise , he pierc'd her tender hear A Grave , a Grave , Lord Barnet cry'd , prepare to lay us in , My Lady shall lie on the upper side , 'cause she is the better Skin . Then suddenly he slew himself , which griev'd his friends full soar , The death of these worthy wights , with tears they did deplore . This sad mischief by lust was wrought , then let us call for grace , That we may shun this wicked vice , and fly from since apace . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright . and J. Clarke . 