The Tragedy of Hero and Leander : OR , The Two Unfortunate Lovers . Famous Leander for his love renown'd , In crossing of the Hellespont was drown'd , And Hero when his corpse she once espy'd , She leapt into the waves , and with h [ i ] m dy'd . To a pleasant new Tune , Or , I will never love thee more . COme mournful muse assist my quill , while I with grief relate , A story of two Lovers true , cut off by cruel fate : Death only parts , united hearts , and brings them to their graves , While others sleep within the deep , or perish in the waves . Leander on the bay of bliss , Pontus , he naked stood ; In passion of delay he sprang , into the fatal flood . The raging seas , none can appease , his fortune ebbs and flows , The heaven down showers , and rain down powers , and the wind aloft it blows . The Lad forsook the Land , and did unto the Gods complain . You Rocks , you rugged Waves , you Elements of Hail and Rain , What 'tis to miss , true Lovers bliss , alas you do not know , Make me a wrack as I come back , but spare me as I go . Behold on yonder tower , see where , my fair beloved lies This th' appointed hour , hark how she on Leander cries ; The Gods were mute , unto his suit , the billows answered , No ; The surges rise , up to the skies , but he sunk down below . Sweet Hero like Dame Venus fair all in her Turrit stood , Expecting of her Lover dear , who crossing was the Flood : A feeble light , through darksome night , she set her Love to guide : With waving arms , and loves Alarms , with a voice full loud she cry'd . YOu cruel waves some pit [ tO ] y show , unto my dearest friend , And you tempestuous winds that blow , at this time prove more kind : Oh waft my love secure to shore , that I his face may see ; With tears your help I do implore your pity lend to me . Let each kind Dolphin now befriend , and help my love along ; And bring him to his journeys end before his breath is gone ; Let not a wave become his grave , and part us both for ever ; Pity my grief , send him relief , and help him now or never . The fierce and cruel tempest did most violently rage ; Not her laments nor discontents its fury could assuage ; The winds were high and he must die , the fates did so ordain ; It was design [ ' ] worser he ne'r should find his dearest Love again . She spread her silken vail for to secure the blazing light , To guide her Love , lest on the Rocks his wearied limbs should smite : But cruel fate , it prov [ ' ] worser his date , and caused him to sleep ; Sh [ e ] from above beheld her love lie drowned in the deep . Her show [ r ] y eyes with tears brought in the tide before its time ; Her sad lamenting groans likewise unto the skys did climb : Oh Heavens ( quoth she ) against poor me , do you your forces bend ; Then from the Walls in haste she falls , to meet her dying friend . Her new bedewed arms about , his senseless corpse she clips , And many kisses spent in vain upon his dying Lips : ' Then wav'd her hands , unto the Lands , singing with dying pride ; Go tell the World in billows strong , I with my Love have dy [ ' ] worser . Thus did they both their breath resign , unto the will of fate ; And in the deep , embrace and twine , when Death did end their date : Let Lovers all example take , and evermore prove true , For Hero and Leanders sake , who bids you all adieu . Printed for R. Burton , at the Horse shoe in West-smithfield , near the Hospital-gate . The Tragedy of Hero and Leander : OR , The Two Unfortunate Lovers . Famous Leander for his love renown'd , In crossing of the Hellespont was drown'd , And Hero when his corpse she once espy'd , She leapt into the waves , and with h [ i ] m dy'd . To a pleasant new Tune , Or , I will never love thee more . COme mournful muse assist my quill , while I with grief relate , A story of two Lovers true , cut off by cruel fate : Death only parts , united hearts , and brings them to their graves , While others sleep within the deep , or perish in the waves . Leander on the bay of bliss , Pontus , he naked stood ; In passion of delay he sprang , into the fatal flood . The raging seas , none can appease , his fortune ebbs and flows , The heaven down showers , and rain down powers , and the wind aloft it blows . The Lad forsook the Land , and did unto the Gods complain . You Rocks , you rugged Waves , you Elements of Hail and Rain , What 'tis to miss , true Lovers bliss , alas you do not know , Make me a wrack as I come back , but spare me as I go . Behold on yonder tower , see where , my fair beloved lies This th' appointed hour , hark how she on Leander cries ; The Gods were mute , unto his suit , the billows answered , No ; The surges rise , up to the skies , but he sunk down below . Sweet Hero like Dame Venus fair all in her Turrit stood , Expecting of her Lover dear , who crossing was the Flood : A feeble light , through darksome night , she set her Love to guide : With waving arms , and loves Alarms , with a voice full loud she cry'd . YOu cruel waves some pit [ tO ] y show , unto my dearest friend , And you tempestuous winds that blow , at this time prove more kind : Oh waft my love secure to shore , that I his face may see ; With tears your help I do implore your pity lend to me . Let each kind Dolphin now befriend , and help my love along ; And bring him to his journeys end before his breath is gone ; Let not a wave become his grave , and part us both for ever ; Pity my grief , send him relief , and help him now or never . The fierce and cruel tempest did most violently rage ; Not her laments nor discontents its fury could assuage ; The winds were high and he must die , the fates did so ordain ; It was design [ ' ] worser he ne'r should find his dearest Love again . She spread her silken vail for to secure the blazing light , To guide her Love , lest on the Rocks his wearied limbs should smite : But cruel fate , it prov [ ' ] worser his date , and caused him to sleep ; Sh [ e ] from above beheld her love lie drowned in the deep . Her show [ r ] y eyes with tears brought in the tide before its time ; Her sad lamenting groans likewise unto the skys did climb : Oh Heavens ( quoth she ) against poor me , do you your forces bend ; Then from the Walls in haste she falls , to meet her dying friend . Her new bedewed arms about , his senseless corpse she clips , And many kisses spent in vain upon his dying Lips : ' Then wav'd her hands , unto the Lands , singing with dying pride ; Go tell the World in billows strong , I with my Love have dy [ ' ] worser . Thus did they both their breath resign , unto the will of fate ; And in the deep , embrace and twine , when Death did end their date : Let Lovers all example take , and evermore prove true , For Hero and Leanders sake , who bids you all adieu . Printed for R. Burton , at the Horse shoe in West-smithfield , near the Hospital-gate . 