[ The ] complaint and lamentation of Mistress Arden of [ Fev ] ersham in Kent , who for the love of one Mosbie , hired certain Ruffians [ a ] and Villains most cruelly to murder her Husband ; with the fatal end of her and her Associates . To the tune of , Fortune my Foe . AY me , vile wretch , that ever I was born , Making my self unto the world a scorn : And to my friends and kindred all a shame , Blotting their blood by my unhappy name . Unto a Gentleman of wealth and fame , ( One Master Arden , he was call'd by name ) I wedded was with joy and great content , Living at Feversham in famous Kent . In love we liv'd , and great tranquillity , Until I came in Mosb [ i ] es company , Whose sugared tongue , good shape , and lovely look , Soon wone my heart , and Ardens love forsook . And living thus in foul adultery , Bred in my husband cause of jealousy , And lest the world our actions should bewray , we did consent to take his life away . To London fair my Husband was to ride , But ere he went I poison did provide , Got of a Painter which I promised That Mosbies sister Susan he should wed . Into his Broth I then did put the same , He lik't it not when to the board it came , Saying , There's something in it is not so [ un ] worser , At which inrag'd , I flung it on the ground . Yet ere he went , his man I did conjure , Ere they came home , to make his Master sure , And murder him , and for his faith and pain , Susan , and store of gold that he should gain . Yet I misdoubting Michaels constancy , Knowing a Neighbour that was dwelling by , Which , to my husband boar no great good will , Sought to incense him his deer blood to spill . His name was Green ; Oh Master Green ( quoth I ) My husband to you hath done injury , For which I sorry am with all my heart , And how he wrongeth me I will impart . He keeps abroad most wicked company , With whores and queans , and bad society ; When he comes home , he beats me sides and head , That I do wish that one of us were dead . And now to London he is rid to roar , I would that I might never see him more : Greene then incensed , did vow to be my friend , And of his life he soon would make and end . O Master Green , said I , the dangers great , You must be circumspect to do this feat ; To act the deed your self there is no need , But hire some villains , they will do the deed . Ten pounds I'll give them to attempt this thing , And twenty more when certain news they bring , That he is dead , beside I'll be your friend , In honest courtesy till life does end . Greene vow'd to do it ; then away he went , And met two Villains , that did use in Kent To rob and murder upon Shooters hill , The one call'd Shakebag , t'other nam'd Black Will . Two such like Villains Hell did never hatch , For twenty Angels they made up the match , And forty more when they had done the deed , Which made them swear , they'd do it with all speed Then up to London presently they high , Where Master Arden in Pauls Church they spy , And waiting for his coming forth that night , By a strange chance of him they then lost sighed . For where these Villains stood & made their stop A Prentice he was shutting up his shop , The window falling , light on Blacke-Wills head , And broke it soundly , that apace it bled . Where straight he made a brabble and a coil , And my sweet Arden he passed by the while ; They missing him , another plot did lay , And meeting Michael , thus to him they say : Thou knowest that we must pack thy Master hence Therefore consent and further our pretence , At night when as your Master goes to bed , Leave open the doors , he shall be murdered . And so he did , yet Arden could not sleep , Strange dreams and visions in his senses creep , He dreamed the doors were open , & Villains came , To murder him , and 'twas the very same . The second part . To the same tune . HE rose and shut the door , his man he blames , which cunningly he strait this answer frames ; I was so sleepy , that I did forget To lock the doors , I pray you pardon it . Next day these Ruffians met this man again , Who the whole story to them did explain , My master will in town no longer stay , To morrow you may meet him on the way . Next day his business being finished , He did take horse , and homeward then he rid , And as he rid , it was his hap as then , To overtake Lord Cheiney and his men . With salutations they each other greet , I am full glad your Honour for to meet , Arden did say ; then did the Lord reply , Sir , I am glad of your good company . And being that we homeward are to ride , I have a suit that must not be denied , That at my house yowl sup , and lodge also , To Feversham this night you must not go . Then Arden answered with this courteous speech , Your Honours pardon now I do beseech , I made a vow , if God did give me life , To sup and lodge with Alice my loving wife . Well , said my Lord , your oath hath god the day , To morrow come and dine with me , I pray . I'll wait upon your Honour then ( said he ) And safe he went among this company . On Raymon-Downe , as they did pass this way , Black-will , and Shakebag they in ambush lay , But durst not touch him , cause of the great train That my Lord had : thus were they crossed again . With horrid oaths these Ruffians gan to swear , They stamp and cursed , and tore their locks of hair Saying , some Angel surely him did keep . Yet vow'd to murder him ere they did sleep . Now all this while my husband was away , Mosby and I did revel night and day ; And Susan , which my waiting maiden was , My Loves own sister , knew how all did pass . But when I saw my Arden was not dead , I welcom'd him , but with a heavy head : To bed he went , and slept secure from harms , But I did wish my Mosby in my arms . Yet ere he slept , he told me he must go To dinner to my Lords , hee'd have it so ; And that same night Black-will did send me word , What luck bad fortune did to them offord . I sent him word , that he next day would dine At the Lord Cheinies , and would rise betime , And on the way their purpose might fulfil , Well , I'll reward you , when that you him kill . Next morn betimes , before the break of day , To take him napping then they took their way ; But such a missed and fog there did arise , They could not see although they had foure eyes . Thus Arden scap'd these villains where [ ? ] And yet they herd his horse go by that way , I think ( said Will ) some Spirit is his friend , Come life or death , I vow to see his end . Then to my house they strait did take their way , Telling me how they missed of their prey ; Then presently , we did together gree , At night at home that he should murdered be . Mosby and I , and all , our plot thus lay , That he at Tables should with Arden play , Black-will , and Sakebag they themselves should hide Until that Mosby he a watchword cried . The word was this whereon we did agree , Now ( Master Arden ) I have taken you : Woe to that word , and woe unto us all , Which bred confusion and our sudden fallen . When he came home , most welcome him I made , And Judas like I kissed whom I betrayed , Mosby and he together went to play , For I on purpose did the tables lay . And as they played , the word was straightway spoke , Black-will and Sakebag out the corner broke , And with a Towel backwards pul'd him down , which made me think they now my joys did crown With swords and knives they stab'd him to the heart Mosby and I did likewise act our part , And then his body straight we did convey Behind the Abbey in the field he lay . And then by Justice we were straight condemn'd , Each of us came unto a shameless end , For God our secret dealings soon did spy , And brought to light our shameful villainy . Thus have you herd of Ardens tragedy , It rests to show you how the rest did die : His wife at Canterbury she was burned , And all her flesh and bones to ashes turn'd . Mosby and his fair Sister , they were brought To London for the trespass they had wrought , In Smithfield on a gibbet they did die . A just reward for all their villainy , Michael and Bradshaw , which a Goldsmith was , That knew of letters which from them did pass , At Feversham were hanged both in chains , And well rewarded for their faithful pains . The painter fled none knows how he did speed , Sakebag in Southwarke he to death did bleed , For as he thought to escape and ran away , He suddenly was murdered [ The ] complaint and lamentation of Mistress Arden of [ Fev ] ersham in Kent , who for the love of one Mosbie , hired certain Ruffians [ a ] and Villains most cruelly to murder her Husband ; with the fatal end of her and her Associates . To the tune of , Fortune my Foe . AY me , vile wretch , that ever I was born , Making my self unto the world a scorn : And to my friends and kindred all a shame , Blotting their blood by my unhappy name . Unto a Gentleman of wealth and fame , ( One Master Arden , he was call'd by name ) I wedded was with joy and great content , Living at Feversham in famous Kent . In love we liv'd , and great tranquillity , Until I came in Mosb [ i ] es company , Whose sugared tongue , good shape , and lovely look , Soon wone my heart , and Ardens love forsook . And living thus in foul adultery , Bred in my husband cause of jealousy , And lest the world our actions should bewray , we did consent to take his life away . To London fair my Husband was to ride , But ere he went I poison did provide , Got of a Painter which I promised That Mosbies sister Susan he should wed . Into his Broth I then did put the same , He lik't it not when to the board it came , Saying , There's something in it is not so [ un ] worser , At which inrag'd , I flung it on the ground . Yet ere he went , his man I did conjure , Ere they came home , to make his Master sure , And murder him , and for his faith and pain , Susan , and store of gold that he should gain . Yet I misdoubting Michaels constancy , Knowing a Neighbour that was dwelling by , Which , to my husband boar no great good will , Sought to incense him his deer blood to spill . His name was Green ; Oh Master Green ( quoth I ) My husband to you hath done injury , For which I sorry am with all my heart , And how he wrongeth me I will impart . He keeps abroad most wicked company , With whores and queans , and bad society ; When he comes home , he beats me sides and head , That I do wish that one of us were dead . And now to London he is rid to roar , I would that I might never see him more : Greene then incensed , did vow to be my friend , And of his life he soon would make and end . O Master Green , said I , the dangers great , You must be circumspect to do this feat ; To act the deed your self there is no need , But hire some villains , they will do the deed . Ten pounds I'll give them to attempt this thing , And twenty more when certain news they bring , That he is dead , beside I'll be your friend , In honest courtesy till life does end . Greene vow'd to do it ; then away he went , And met two Villains , that did use in Kent To rob and murder upon Shooters hill , The one call'd Shakebag , t'other nam'd Black Will . Two such like Villains Hell did never hatch , For twenty Angels they made up the match , And forty more when they had done the deed , Which made them swear , they'd do it with all speed Then up to London presently they high , Where Master Arden in Pauls Church they spy , And waiting for his coming forth that night , By a strange chance of him they then lost sighed . For where these Villains stood & made their stop A Prentice he was shutting up his shop , The window falling , light on Blacke-Wills head , And broke it soundly , that apace it bled . Where straight he made a brabble and a coil , And my sweet Arden he passed by the while ; They missing him , another plot did lay , And meeting Michael , thus to him they say : Thou knowest that we must pack thy Master hence Therefore consent and further our pretence , At night when as your Master goes to bed , Leave open the doors , he shall be murdered . And so he did , yet Arden could not sleep , Strange dreams and visions in his senses creep , He dreamed the doors were open , & Villains came , To murder him , and 'twas the very same . The second part . To the same tune . HE rose and shut the door , his man he blames , which cunningly he strait this answer frames ; I was so sleepy , that I did forget To lock the doors , I pray you pardon it . Next day these Ruffians met this man again , Who the whole story to them did explain , My master will in town no longer stay , To morrow you may meet him on the way . Next day his business being finished , He did take horse , and homeward then he rid , And as he rid , it was his hap as then , To overtake Lord Cheiney and his men . With salutations they each other greet , I am full glad your Honour for to meet , Arden did say ; then did the Lord reply , Sir , I am glad of your good company . And being that we homeward are to ride , I have a suit that must not be denied , That at my house yowl sup , and lodge also , To Feversham this night you must not go . Then Arden answered with this courteous speech , Your Honours pardon now I do beseech , I made a vow , if God did give me life , To sup and lodge with Alice my loving wife . Well , said my Lord , your oath hath god the day , To morrow come and dine with me , I pray . I'll wait upon your Honour then ( said he ) And safe he went among this company . On Raymon-Downe , as they did pass this way , Black-will , and Shakebag they in ambush lay , But durst not touch him , cause of the great train That my Lord had : thus were they crossed again . With horrid oaths these Ruffians gan to swear , They stamp and cursed , and tore their locks of hair Saying , some Angel surely him did keep . Yet vow'd to murder him ere they did sleep . Now all this while my husband was away , Mosby and I did revel night and day ; And Susan , which my waiting maiden was , My Loves own sister , knew how all did pass . But when I saw my Arden was not dead , I welcom'd him , but with a heavy head : To bed he went , and slept secure from harms , But I did wish my Mosby in my arms . Yet ere he slept , he told me he must go To dinner to my Lords , hee'd have it so ; And that same night Black-will did send me word , What luck bad fortune did to them offord . I sent him word , that he next day would dine At the Lord Cheinies , and would rise betime , And on the way their purpose might fulfil , Well , I'll reward you , when that you him kill . Next morn betimes , before the break of day , To take him napping then they took their way ; But such a missed and fog there did arise , They could not see although they had foure eyes . Thus Arden scap'd these villains where [ ? ] And yet they herd his horse go by that way , I think ( said Will ) some Spirit is his friend , Come life or death , I vow to see his end . Then to my house they strait did take their way , Telling me how they missed of their prey ; Then presently , we did together gree , At night at home that he should murdered be . Mosby and I , and all , our plot thus lay , That he at Tables should with Arden play , Black-will , and Sakebag they themselves should hide Until that Mosby he a watchword cried . The word was this whereon we did agree , Now ( Master Arden ) I have taken you : Woe to that word , and woe unto us all , Which bred confusion and our sudden fallen . When he came home , most welcome him I made , And Judas like I kissed whom I betrayed , Mosby and he together went to play , For I on purpose did the tables lay . And as they played , the word was straightway spoke , Black-will and Sakebag out the corner broke , And with a Towel backwards pul'd him down , which made me think they now my joys did crown With swords and knives they stab'd him to the heart Mosby and I did likewise act our part , And then his body straight we did convey Behind the Abbey in the field he lay . And then by Justice we were straight condemn'd , Each of us came unto a shameless end , For God our secret dealings soon did spy , And brought to light our shameful villainy . Thus have you herd of Ardens tragedy , It rests to show you how the rest did die : His wife at Canterbury she was burned , And all her flesh and bones to ashes turn'd . Mosby and his fair Sister , they were brought To London for the trespass they had wrought , In Smithfield on a gibbet they did die . A just reward for all their villainy , Michael and Bradshaw , which a Goldsmith was , That knew of letters which from them did pass , At Feversham were hanged both in chains , And well rewarded for their faithful pains . The painter fled none knows how he did speed , Sakebag in Southwarke he to death did bleed , For as he thought to escape and ran away , He suddenly was murdered in a fray . In Kent at Osbridge , Green did suffer death , Hang'd on a gibbet he did loose his breath : Black-will at Flushing on a stage did burn , Thus each one came unto his end by turn . And thus my story I conclude and end , Praying the Lord that he his grace will send Upon us all , and keep us all from ill , Amen say all , if't be thy blessed will . Printed at London for C. W. FINIS . in a fray . In Kent at Osbridge , Green did suffer death , Hang'd on a gibbet he did loose his breath : Black-will at Flushing on a stage did burn , Thus each one came unto his end by turn . And thus my story I conclude and end , Praying the Lord that he his grace will send Upon us all , and keep us all from ill , Amen say all , if't be thy blessed will . Printed at London for C. W. FINIS . 