The Merchant of Scotland AND The Unfortunate Damosel . A Damosel fair in Scotland born , Being full of grief and left forlorn , 'Twas and English-man that she did love , Who left her and unkind did prove : In private she did make great moan . Because her English-man was gone . And Edenborough-Merchant there , Her sighs and groans did chance to hear : And married her , but in short time , Was forc'd to leave his Native chine ; And sail unto some foreign shore , Leaving her sadder then before . To a pleasant Country Tune . ABroad as I was walking , all by the Park side Abroad as I was walking , so merry merrily ; O I herd a fair maid make great moan , And still she did weep for good company , And still she did weep for good company . O what do you weep for ? my well favour'd Maid What do you weep for , so soar and bitterly ? Quoth she , I weep for and English-man , That is quite banished out of this Country , etc Come I am the Burgess of Edenborough town , And I pray thee Sweetheart lay thy love to me , o then this Merchant-Man draws forth a bag of gold And he laid it on this fair Maids knee ; Saying sweetheart , take thou this , And afterwards lay thy love to me , etc I pray you take up your money , your money , I pray you take up your gold and all your fee , For if that I prove false to Kester a Wait , O how should I prove true to thee ? O how should I prove true to thee ? At length this fair Maid did behold , The Merchant's great bags , & his comely face , She also did cast and eye upon his Gold , And willing she was the same for to embrace , And willing she was the same for to embrace . Kind sir , quoth she , since my first love is gone , And if that you will make much of me , I'le cheer up my heart , & i'le live with you alone , And to morrow your married wife I will be , And to morrow your married wife I will be . AGreed , agreed , the Merchantman did say , I do love thee with all my heart , I could wish that we might have been married to day , For I from my dearest will never depart , For I from my dearest will never depart . the next day being come , they were Married both , Being clothed in rich array , And being at the Church they both plighted their troth and Kept a most jovial wedding-day , etc But they had not been a month Married , Not a Month Married were they , But there came News from Edenborough-town That all Merchant-Men must go to Sea , etc This grieved the Merchant piteously , That he must so soon bid adieu to his dear , But alas the poor Bride , how grieved was she ? And at every word fell many a tear , etc He bid her adieu , for to Sea he must go , But she held him fast in her arms , You must not , you shall not , my dearest now , I will keep you at home without harms , etc O I must go to Sea my Honey , my Honey , O I must go to Sea my dearest Honey , But when I am gone to Sea , and to Sea , I prithee look after my little Conney , etc Then giving her many Kisses so sweet , He bid her farewell with a sorrowful heart , Saying , being of good cheer till again we do meet And then from my Love I will never depart , etc When thus he had said , then away he did go , And now he is sailing over the Main , He leaves her behind , full of sorrow and woe , But more you shall know , when he comes back again , But more you shall know when he comes back again . FINIS . With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for E. Oliver , at the Golden Key , on Snow - hill , over-against St. Sepulchres-Chureh , near the Sarazens-head . The Merchant of Scotland AND The Unfortunate Damosel . A Damosel fair in Scotland born , Being full of grief and left forlorn , 'Twas and English-man that she did love , Who left her and unkind did prove : In private she did make great moan . Because her English-man was gone . And Edenborough-Merchant there , Her sighs and groans did chance to hear : And married her , but in short time , Was forc'd to leave his Native chine ; And sail unto some foreign shore , Leaving her sadder then before . To a pleasant Country Tune . ABroad as I was walking , all by the Park side Abroad as I was walking , so merry merrily ; O I herd a fair maid make great moan , And still she did weep for good company , And still she did weep for good company . O what do you weep for ? my well favour'd Maid What do you weep for , so soar and bitterly ? Quoth she , I weep for and English-man , That is quite banished out of this Country , etc Come I am the Burgess of Edenborough town , And I pray thee Sweetheart lay thy love to me , o then this Merchant-Man draws forth a bag of gold And he laid it on this fair Maids knee ; Saying sweetheart , take thou this , And afterwards lay thy love to me , etc I pray you take up your money , your money , I pray you take up your gold and all your fee , For if that I prove false to Kester a Wait , O how should I prove true to thee ? O how should I prove true to thee ? At length this fair Maid did behold , The Merchant's great bags , & his comely face , She also did cast and eye upon his Gold , And willing she was the same for to embrace , And willing she was the same for to embrace . Kind sir , quoth she , since my first love is gone , And if that you will make much of me , I'le cheer up my heart , & i'le live with you alone , And to morrow your married wife I will be , And to morrow your married wife I will be . AGreed , agreed , the Merchantman did say , I do love thee with all my heart , I could wish that we might have been married to day , For I from my dearest will never depart , For I from my dearest will never depart . the next day being come , they were Married both , Being clothed in rich array , And being at the Church they both plighted their troth and Kept a most jovial wedding-day , etc But they had not been a month Married , Not a Month Married were they , But there came News from Edenborough-town That all Merchant-Men must go to Sea , etc This grieved the Merchant piteously , That he must so soon bid adieu to his dear , But alas the poor Bride , how grieved was she ? And at every word fell many a tear , etc He bid her adieu , for to Sea he must go , But she held him fast in her arms , You must not , you shall not , my dearest now , I will keep you at home without harms , etc O I must go to Sea my Honey , my Honey , O I must go to Sea my dearest Honey , But when I am gone to Sea , and to Sea , I prithee look after my little Conney , etc Then giving her many Kisses so sweet , He bid her farewell with a sorrowful heart , Saying , being of good cheer till again we do meet And then from my Love I will never depart , etc When thus he had said , then away he did go , And now he is sailing over the Main , He leaves her behind , full of sorrow and woe , But more you shall know , when he comes back again , But more you shall know when he comes back again . FINIS . With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for E. Oliver , at the Golden Key , on Snow - hill , over-against St. Sepulchres-Chureh , near the Sarazens-head . 