The two Notinghamshire Lovers : or , The Maid of Standon in Notingham - shire , and the Leicestershire man : Which were linked together contrary to their Friends minds ; but she was so inflamed in love , that she requested him from thence to go ; and he resolved her so to do , appointing the place where they should meet ; but it proved a heavy meeting as ere was known , as in this Ditty shall be shown . To the tune of I fear I shall stay too long . IN Notinghamshire , as late I did hear : there lived two Lovers true : Whose hearts were linked fast , Whil'st life did last , but mark what did ensue . O this was all her song , My Love I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . In Standon she was born , That lived thus forlorn , and her name was called Anne Hall , But her own friends did seek , Her mind for to break , which caused her great downfall . And this , etc This young man in Leicestershire , Was born as I do hear , and his name was called John Browne : But in his love he was Not so constant as his Lass , as hereby shall be plainly found . But this , etc Her friends would not agree That she should married be , to him that she best did love : Though she did them entreat , They her misused and beatrice , in hope that her mind would move . O this , etc Her friends to her would say , If you will him denay , and marry some other man : Then you shall want for nought , That for money can be bought , take you him that hath house and land . But this , etc But she was thus resolved , Till death her dissolved , not to change like the wavering wind : Like to the Turtle Dove , So true she did prove , and she was steadfast in her love . [ O ] h but this , etc That when that she did see Her friends would not agree , she moan made unto her Love , Saying she would go With him in weal or woe , and would prove like the Turtle Dove . O but , etc Thus he reply'd again , My mind I will explain , and will tell thee what I will do : Meet me in your Father's Land , And here's my heart and hand , tomorrow with thee I'll go . O but , etc To th' same she did agree , And appointed presently the place where she should him meet , Then home she went again , For money to maintain her self and her Lover sweet . O but , etc And when the hour came , Then she return'd again : to the place where he did appoint But when that she came there , She saw him not appear , and then she began to faint . O but , etc Then down she sat her straight , And thus began to write , complaining most piteously , Of her crosses she Had endured patiently , and then she was resolved to die . O but , etc Falsehearted one , That breedest my moan , and dost cause me thus to complain : O I will never trust To one so unjust , For I find that it is in vain . But this was all her song , My Love I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . The second Part. To the same tune . HE so swore to me , That true he would be , as the Turtle to her mate : Oh but him I find Much like to the wind , that blows in uncertain state . But this is still my song , My Love I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . His urging eyes , Like to the pleasant skies , that in April oft do show , Yet ere that you are aware , They changed are to stormy wind , and blow . Therefore , etc Seeing that thee I find , To be so unkind to me which so deer loved thee , I am resolv'd in heart From the world to depart , thou again shalt me never see . Therefore , etc To father and mother , I speak above all other , who are the causers of my woe : You would not give consent , Therefore you may repent , you have wrought my overthrow . Therefore , etc When I did you entreat , Then was I sorely beatrice , and you said him I should not marry . You stood for worldly gain , Which breeds now my pain , for my Love I do now miscarry . Therefore , etc To you my Love likewise , Who I did once surmise would have proved more true to me : But you I false do find , And to me so unkind , therefore I here must die . Therefore , etc This letter of my woe , With me shall be to show , in the place where you shall me find : For to declare aright The causes of my spite , and the truth of a troubled mind . Therefore , etc Then with her knife She ended her life , in the place that appointed was : Where her love to see Came thither presently , and found her dead on the grass . Therefore , etc Therefore with his Rapier he Himself immediately did kill hard by his Love : Straight after they were found Bleeding upon the ground , near to a pleasant-Grove . Therefore , etc Her friends when they did hear , Soar grieved they were : yet unto the place did come , And from her pocket they , There pulled out straight way this letter of grief and moan . Therefore , etc When this they read and hear , They strucken were with fear , and cried most piteously : Confessing of it true ; But mark what did ensue , Oh they did after quickly die . Therefore , etc Let other Parents now Not seek to break a vow , that is made between lovers true ; Lest all too late , I say , They work their lives decay : as by this story plainly does appear . And now to end my song , etc FINIS . London , Printed for H.G. The two Notinghamshire Lovers : or , The Maid of Standon in Notingham - shire , and the Leicestershire man : Which were linked together contrary to their Friends minds ; but she was so inflamed in love , that she requested him from thence to go ; and he resolved her so to do , appointing the place where they should meet ; but it proved a heavy meeting as ere was known , as in this Ditty shall be shown . To the tune of I fear I shall stay too long . IN Notinghamshire , as late I did hear : there lived two Lovers true : Whose hearts were linked fast , Whil'st life did last , but mark what did ensue . O this was all her song , My Love I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . In Standon she was born , That lived thus forlorn , and her name was called Anne Hall , But her own friends did seek , Her mind for to break , which caused her great downfall . And this , etc This young man in Leicestershire , Was born as I do hear , and his name was called John Browne : But in his love he was Not so constant as his Lass , as hereby shall be plainly found . But this , etc Her friends would not agree That she should married be , to him that she best did love : Though she did them entreat , They her misused and beatrice , in hope that her mind would move . O this , etc Her friends to her would say , If you will him denay , and marry some other man : Then you shall want for nought , That for money can be bought , take you him that hath house and land . But this , etc But she was thus resolved , Till death her dissolved , not to change like the wavering wind : Like to the Turtle Dove , So true she did prove , and she was steadfast in her love . [ O ] h but this , etc That when that she did see Her friends would not agree , she moan made unto her Love , Saying she would go With him in weal or woe , and would prove like the Turtle Dove . O but , etc Thus he reply'd again , My mind I will explain , and will tell thee what I will do : Meet me in your Father's Land , And here's my heart and hand , tomorrow with thee I'll go . O but , etc To th' same she did agree , And appointed presently the place where she should him meet , Then home she went again , For money to maintain her self and her Lover sweet . O but , etc And when the hour came , Then she return'd again : to the place where he did appoint But when that she came there , She saw him not appear , and then she began to faint . O but , etc Then down she sat her straight , And thus began to write , complaining most piteously , Of her crosses she Had endured patiently , and then she was resolved to die . O but , etc Falsehearted one , That breedest my moan , and dost cause me thus to complain : O I will never trust To one so unjust , For I find that it is in vain . But this was all her song , My Love I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . The second Part. To the same tune . HE so swore to me , That true he would be , as the Turtle to her mate : Oh but him I find Much like to the wind , that blows in uncertain state . But this is still my song , My Love I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . His urging eyes , Like to the pleasant skies , that in April oft do show , Yet ere that you are aware , They changed are to stormy wind , and blow . Therefore , etc Seeing that thee I find , To be so unkind to me which so deer loved thee , I am resolv'd in heart From the world to depart , thou again shalt me never see . Therefore , etc To father and mother , I speak above all other , who are the causers of my woe : You would not give consent , Therefore you may repent , you have wrought my overthrow . Therefore , etc When I did you entreat , Then was I sorely beatrice , and you said him I should not marry . You stood for worldly gain , Which breeds now my pain , for my Love I do now miscarry . Therefore , etc To you my Love likewise , Who I did once surmise would have proved more true to me : But you I false do find , And to me so unkind , therefore I here must die . Therefore , etc This letter of my woe , With me shall be to show , in the place where you shall me find : For to declare aright The causes of my spite , and the truth of a troubled mind . Therefore , etc Then with her knife She ended her life , in the place that appointed was : Where her love to see Came thither presently , and found her dead on the grass . Therefore , etc Therefore with his Rapier he Himself immediately did kill hard by his Love : Straight after they were found Bleeding upon the ground , near to a pleasant-Grove . Therefore , etc Her friends when they did hear , Soar grieved they were : yet unto the place did come , And from her pocket they , There pulled out straight way this letter of grief and moan . Therefore , etc When this they read and hear , They strucken were with fear , and cried most piteously : Confessing of it true ; But mark what did ensue , Oh they did after quickly die . Therefore , etc Let other Parents now Not seek to break a vow , that is made between lovers true ; Lest all too late , I say , They work their lives decay : as by this story plainly does appear . And now to end my song , etc FINIS . London , Printed for H.G. 