The Northampton-shire Lovers : OR , No wealth can compare unto true Love : Young men and Maids that delight to hear How Lovers Couple , pray draw near ; And in this Sonnet you may find A fancy that may please your mind . To the Tune , Of true Love rewarded with loyalty , Or , Loves down fallen . With Allowance . IN Summer time when leaves are green , and Flora in her rich array : With all sorts of flowers so sweet , she had bedecked the fields so gay . I espied a young man and a maid , a walking in the cool o'th' day ; The young man he was not afraid , but these words unto her did say . Man. O turn to me my own Dear heart , and I my self will turn to thee ; For thou and I will never part , while life and breath remains in me . Thou knowest these long seven years & more , we two together have been in love ; And I have slacken'd my desires , only thy passion for to prove . But here's my hand , no longer I no further trial will I make , But love thee till the day I die , therefore my Bride I mean to take . I have six horses at my Blow , and six more in my Stable stand ; And here to thee I make a vow , They all shall be at they command . Beside my grounds they are well stocked , for thee to walk in to and from ; In truth my Dear I do not mock , if thou can'st love me tell me so . Maid . Your words , good Sir , are very fair , ten times better then I do deserve ; Yet 'tis good for me to have a care , lest you from them should quickly swerve . For young men's tongues now in these days , they are so tipped with words so fair , A maidens beauty they will praise , till they have caught her in a snare But if yonders Bower was full of gold , and thou couldst give it unto me , Until I'm wed , I never would loose one dram of my Virginity . The second part , to the same Tune , Though foolish Knacks some maids entice , to yield unto a young men will ; Then leave them in fools Paradise , and of repenting they have their fill . For hasty marriage ne'er proves good , so it behoves me to be coy ; Although I'm young I understand that in my freedom's all my joy . So for this time , good Sir , adieu , my Mother she for me does stay ; And when I hear your heart is true , you then shall hear what I will say . Till then what ever me betide , let wealth or sorrow come to me , Until that I am made a Bride , I never mean to turn to thee . Man. But wilt thou be gone my love and joy , and leave me in this place alone , The chirping Birds will cease their notes , to hear me make my grievous moan . The waters which are here so deep , without a shroud my grave shall be ; My body shall the fish feed , if once you do depart from me . Therefore as thou'rt a Virgin pure , and I think thee to be no less , Some comfort now to me procure , to ease my grief and heaviness . Be not a talk to other maids , that they behind your back should say , She was so peevish and so coy , she cast her first true love away . Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I my self will turn to thee ; For thou and I will never part , while life and breath remains in me . Maid . I would not for ten thousand World's , that any friend of mine should say ; I was so peevish and so coy , to cast my dearest love away . But where he is I cannot tell , no , nor yet do I know his name ; Yet you pretend that you art him , with protestations on the same . Yet a further trial I will have , e're that the true loves knot I tie ; Before I'll match to be a slave , I'd rather by this knife to die . Tho some don't look before they leap , I will be weary of such things ; For while I'm single I live well , but marriage many troubles brings . You say you've House , you say you've Land , yet all that does not please my mind , Your looks does show you dogged are , and wilt not to a Wife prove kind . Then what will riches profit me , if I have not a quiet life : A Lady that lives discontentedly , she'd better be a Hoggerds wife . Man. I can say no less , my only dear , these words are true you tell to me : When man and wife does live at strife , be sure no blessing there can be . But a loving man of me thou'st find , As any lives beneath the Sun , I ever to thee will prove kind , I'll ne'er think much of what thou'st done . My promise I will keep and hold , so long as life remains in me , If thou wants Silver or good Gold , I strait will give it unto thee . Therefore the bargain let us seal with a kiss or two that is so sweet . And so much then he did prevail , that lovingly she did him greet . Now she no longer does seem coy ; and this is all the young men song , Now I have gained my love and joy , we will be wedded ere be long . And what he spoke he did fulfil , so far as I do understand , They went to Church with friends good will , and strait was married out of hand . Thus all young Lovers they may learn , where ever they do go or come : Young men if once a bargain you make , be sure that you do strike it home . For long delays does ne'er prove good , a modest and a civil Girl , Though she is poor and thou art rich , yet love outpasses Gold or Pearl . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright and J. Clark . The Northampton-shire Lovers : OR , No wealth can compare unto true Love : Young men and Maids that delight to hear How Lovers Couple , pray draw near ; And in this Sonnet you may find A fancy that may please your mind . To the Tune , Of true Love rewarded with loyalty , Or , Loves down fallen . With Allowance . IN Summer time when leaves are green , and Flora in her rich array : With all sorts of flowers so sweet , she had bedecked the fields so gay . I espied a young man and a maid , a walking in the cool o'th' day ; The young man he was not afraid , but these words unto her did say . Man. O turn to me my own Dear heart , and I my self will turn to thee ; For thou and I will never part , while life and breath remains in me . Thou knowest these long seven years & more , we two together have been in love ; And I have slacken'd my desires , only thy passion for to prove . But here's my hand , no longer I no further trial will I make , But love thee till the day I die , therefore my Bride I mean to take . I have six horses at my Blow , and six more in my Stable stand ; And here to thee I make a vow , They all shall be at they command . Beside my grounds they are well stocked , for thee to walk in to and from ; In truth my Dear I do not mock , if thou can'st love me tell me so . Maid . Your words , good Sir , are very fair , ten times better then I do deserve ; Yet 'tis good for me to have a care , lest you from them should quickly swerve . For young men's tongues now in these days , they are so tipped with words so fair , A maidens beauty they will praise , till they have caught her in a snare But if yonders Bower was full of gold , and thou couldst give it unto me , Until I'm wed , I never would loose one dram of my Virginity . The second part , to the same Tune , Though foolish Knacks some maids entice , to yield unto a young men will ; Then leave them in fools Paradise , and of repenting they have their fill . For hasty marriage ne'er proves good , so it behoves me to be coy ; Although I'm young I understand that in my freedom's all my joy . So for this time , good Sir , adieu , my Mother she for me does stay ; And when I hear your heart is true , you then shall hear what I will say . Till then what ever me betide , let wealth or sorrow come to me , Until that I am made a Bride , I never mean to turn to thee . Man. But wilt thou be gone my love and joy , and leave me in this place alone , The chirping Birds will cease their notes , to hear me make my grievous moan . The waters which are here so deep , without a shroud my grave shall be ; My body shall the fish feed , if once you do depart from me . Therefore as thou'rt a Virgin pure , and I think thee to be no less , Some comfort now to me procure , to ease my grief and heaviness . Be not a talk to other maids , that they behind your back should say , She was so peevish and so coy , she cast her first true love away . Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I my self will turn to thee ; For thou and I will never part , while life and breath remains in me . Maid . I would not for ten thousand World's , that any friend of mine should say ; I was so peevish and so coy , to cast my dearest love away . But where he is I cannot tell , no , nor yet do I know his name ; Yet you pretend that you art him , with protestations on the same . Yet a further trial I will have , e're that the true loves knot I tie ; Before I'll match to be a slave , I'd rather by this knife to die . Tho some don't look before they leap , I will be weary of such things ; For while I'm single I live well , but marriage many troubles brings . You say you've House , you say you've Land , yet all that does not please my mind , Your looks does show you dogged are , and wilt not to a Wife prove kind . Then what will riches profit me , if I have not a quiet life : A Lady that lives discontentedly , she'd better be a Hoggerds wife . Man. I can say no less , my only dear , these words are true you tell to me : When man and wife does live at strife , be sure no blessing there can be . But a loving man of me thou'st find , As any lives beneath the Sun , I ever to thee will prove kind , I'll ne'er think much of what thou'st done . My promise I will keep and hold , so long as life remains in me , If thou wants Silver or good Gold , I strait will give it unto thee . Therefore the bargain let us seal with a kiss or two that is so sweet . And so much then he did prevail , that lovingly she did him greet . Now she no longer does seem coy ; and this is all the young men song , Now I have gained my love and joy , we will be wedded ere be long . And what he spoke he did fulfil , so far as I do understand , They went to Church with friends good will , and strait was married out of hand . Thus all young Lovers they may learn , where ever they do go or come : Young men if once a bargain you make , be sure that you do strike it home . For long delays does ne'er prove good , a modest and a civil Girl , Though she is poor and thou art rich , yet love outpasses Gold or Pearl . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright and J. Clark . 