Rock the Cradle John : OR , Children after the rate of twenty foure in a year , That's two every month as plain does appear , Let no man at this strange story wonder . It goes to the tune of , Over and under . THere was a country Gallant , That wasted had his talon , Not dreading what would fallen on't , would needs a wooing ride : Unto a Lass of the City , That courteous was and pretty , This Damsel neat and witty , he would go make his Bride : This Lass she had of wealth good store , Her stock was threescore pound and more Though some supposed her to be poor , the same hath late been tried . Rock the Cradle , rock the Cradle , rock the Cradle John , There's many a man rocks the Cradle , when the Child's none of his own . Unto this Lass incontinent , The Youngman went with good intent , His love was fixed and firmly bent , to take her to his wife ; Quoth he , my sweet , while life does last , My heart is in thy bosom plac'd , Let not my suit be now disgrac'd , I love thee as my life ; Said she , your suit I must deny , For I have vowed a Maid to die , If I loose my virginity , it sure will breed much strife . Rock the Cradle , etc I have been wooed by Harry , But I indeed will tarry , I never mean to marry , while I on earth remain , Sweet William and young Thomas too , And Richard hath made much ado , And Ned with tears did often woe , but Humphrey did complain , All these brave gallants I forsake , I prithee John no more words make , But to some other course betake , I do thy suit disdain . Go rock the Cradle , etc The man no whit dismayed At that which she had said , But with his Sweetheart stayed , and did request her still : He did entreat her favour , 'twas all that he did crave her , That he might only have her , his fancy to fulfil : My heart does fry in Cupids fire , Thy beauty I do much admire , Then yield my love to my desire , or else a man you kill . Rock the Cradle , etc When she her self did understand , She had a fool caught by the hand , Her ship she knew was soundly man'd , her belly wondrous round : Thought she , this is a friend of mine , It's best make hay while sun does shine , Yet to some thing I will him join before my fault be found , Said she , if I be made thy wife , Thou must me humour all thy life , And careful be for fear of strife ; like to a Prentice bound . Rock the Cradle , etc The second part . To the same tune . IN the morning if I thee desire , Then must rise up and make a fire , And other things I shall require , which thou must undertake : My breakfast thou must dr [ e ] sse also , That I from bed to it may go , All these hard tasks and many more thou must not then forsake , To brush my Gown and set my band , Make clean my shoes at my command , Thy business thou must understand if I the word but speak . Rock the Cradle , etc And when we chance to have a child , Thou must like to a Father mild , Unto the same be reconcil'd , and dance it on thy knee ; Or if the infant cry for pap , Thou then must take it in thy lap ; And feed it well what ever hap , if John will marry me ; Thou must take pains as thou art able , To make the bed and serve at Table , And lay the young one in the Cradle , whilst I sing merrily . Rock the Cradle , etc Sweetheart , quoth he , to please thee , I'll do all things to ease thee , I will not once disease thee , nor yet my love offend . My hands under your feet I'll lay , The wind shall not my love annoy , So thou wilt be mine ownely joy , I'll love thee to the end , I'll make the bed , the house I'll sweep , And lull the Baby fast asleep . What you command my self will keep , and will my humour bend , Rock the Cradle , etc To this they both agree'd , And married were with speed , For she had wondrous need , as you shall hear hereafter ; The same day month that they were wed , The married man was fairly sped , His wife was safely brought to bed , and had both son and daughter , Which by the Midwife in was brought , Quod she , you have a st [ r ] ange thing wrought . Two children in a month begotten . and so took up a laughter . Rock the Cradle , etc He kissed the Girl and lov'd the Boy , Said he , you are your father's joy , There's many are in great annoy , because they have no child : I knew a Lord and Lady fair , That did desire to have and heir , Now I my self have god a pair [ r ] , and they are both beguil'd , My wife is fruitful now I see , And will some great increase bring me : They are your awn assuredly , then said the Midwife mild . Rock the Cradle , etc See here the Boy is like the Dad , Which well may make your heart full glad Cheer up your self and be not sad , for that which here is done : His ruby lips do plain disclose , His cherry cheeks and dads own nose , For twenty pound I will not loose , quoth he , my little son , So well content this fool was found , He leapt for joy above the ground , Old sorrow shall , quoth he , be drown'd , since new are fresh begun ; Rock the Cradle , Jog the Cradle , thus I'll have it known , I love to rock the Cradle , the children be mine own . All you which now have herd this ditty , Take heed , with wives how you do fit you For if you come to London City , you quickly may be sped , As here you see this Country Lad , Within a month was made a Dad , Though he but little share in't had , his wife was brought to bed , And now this simple woodcock , The Cradle is constrain'd to rock , His neighbours do deride and mock , cause he is so besteaded , They shout and cry and to him say , still the children John , This e [ n ] ough to make the man , to think they be none of his own . FINIS . L.P. Printed at London for E.B. Rock the Cradle John : OR , Children after the rate of twenty foure in a year , That's two every month as plain does appear , Let no man at this strange story wonder . It goes to the tune of , Over and under . THere was a country Gallant , That wasted had his talon , Not dreading what would fallen on't , would needs a wooing ride : Unto a Lass of the City , That courteous was and pretty , This Damsel neat and witty , he would go make his Bride : This Lass she had of wealth good store , Her stock was threescore pound and more Though some supposed her to be poor , the same hath late been tried . Rock the Cradle , rock the Cradle , rock the Cradle John , There's many a man rocks the Cradle , when the Child's none of his own . Unto this Lass incontinent , The Youngman went with good intent , His love was fixed and firmly bent , to take her to his wife ; Quoth he , my sweet , while life does last , My heart is in thy bosom plac'd , Let not my suit be now disgrac'd , I love thee as my life ; Said she , your suit I must deny , For I have vowed a Maid to die , If I loose my virginity , it sure will breed much strife . Rock the Cradle , etc I have been wooed by Harry , But I indeed will tarry , I never mean to marry , while I on earth remain , Sweet William and young Thomas too , And Richard hath made much ado , And Ned with tears did often woe , but Humphrey did complain , All these brave gallants I forsake , I prithee John no more words make , But to some other course betake , I do thy suit disdain . Go rock the Cradle , etc The man no whit dismayed At that which she had said , But with his Sweetheart stayed , and did request her still : He did entreat her favour , 'twas all that he did crave her , That he might only have her , his fancy to fulfil : My heart does fry in Cupids fire , Thy beauty I do much admire , Then yield my love to my desire , or else a man you kill . Rock the Cradle , etc When she her self did understand , She had a fool caught by the hand , Her ship she knew was soundly man'd , her belly wondrous round : Thought she , this is a friend of mine , It's best make hay while sun does shine , Yet to some thing I will him join before my fault be found , Said she , if I be made thy wife , Thou must me humour all thy life , And careful be for fear of strife ; like to a Prentice bound . Rock the Cradle , etc The second part . To the same tune . IN the morning if I thee desire , Then must rise up and make a fire , And other things I shall require , which thou must undertake : My breakfast thou must dr [ e ] sse also , That I from bed to it may go , All these hard tasks and many more thou must not then forsake , To brush my Gown and set my band , Make clean my shoes at my command , Thy business thou must understand if I the word but speak . Rock the Cradle , etc And when we chance to have a child , Thou must like to a Father mild , Unto the same be reconcil'd , and dance it on thy knee ; Or if the infant cry for pap , Thou then must take it in thy lap ; And feed it well what ever hap , if John will marry me ; Thou must take pains as thou art able , To make the bed and serve at Table , And lay the young one in the Cradle , whilst I sing merrily . Rock the Cradle , etc Sweetheart , quoth he , to please thee , I'll do all things to ease thee , I will not once disease thee , nor yet my love offend . My hands under your feet I'll lay , The wind shall not my love annoy , So thou wilt be mine ownely joy , I'll love thee to the end , I'll make the bed , the house I'll sweep , And lull the Baby fast asleep . What you command my self will keep , and will my humour bend , Rock the Cradle , etc To this they both agree'd , And married were with speed , For she had wondrous need , as you shall hear hereafter ; The same day month that they were wed , The married man was fairly sped , His wife was safely brought to bed , and had both son and daughter , Which by the Midwife in was brought , Quod she , you have a st [ r ] ange thing wrought . Two children in a month begotten . and so took up a laughter . Rock the Cradle , etc He kissed the Girl and lov'd the Boy , Said he , you are your father's joy , There's many are in great annoy , because they have no child : I knew a Lord and Lady fair , That did desire to have and heir , Now I my self have god a pair [ r ] , and they are both beguil'd , My wife is fruitful now I see , And will some great increase bring me : They are your awn assuredly , then said the Midwife mild . Rock the Cradle , etc See here the Boy is like the Dad , Which well may make your heart full glad Cheer up your self and be not sad , for that which here is done : His ruby lips do plain disclose , His cherry cheeks and dads own nose , For twenty pound I will not loose , quoth he , my little son , So well content this fool was found , He leapt for joy above the ground , Old sorrow shall , quoth he , be drown'd , since new are fresh begun ; Rock the Cradle , Jog the Cradle , thus I'll have it known , I love to rock the Cradle , the children be mine own . All you which now have herd this ditty , Take heed , with wives how you do fit you For if you come to London City , you quickly may be sped , As here you see this Country Lad , Within a month was made a Dad , Though he but little share in't had , his wife was brought to bed , And now this simple woodcock , The Cradle is constrain'd to rock , His neighbours do deride and mock , cause he is so besteaded , They shout and cry and to him say , still the children John , This e [ n ] ough to make the man , to think they be none of his own . FINIS . L.P. Printed at London for E.B. 