The Bonny Bryer , OR A Lancashire Lass , her soar lamentation , For the death of her Love , and her own reputation . To the tune of the Bonny Broom . ONe morning early by the break of day , walking to Totnam-Court Upon the left hand of the high way , I herd a sad report ; I made a stay , and look'd about me then , wondering from whence it was , At last I spied within my ken a blithe and buxom Lass . Sing Oh the Bryer , the bony bony Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Would I had stayed in Lancashire , to milk my mother's Neat . I drew more near and laid me all along , upon the grass so green , Where I might hear her dulcid tongue , yet I was from her unseen : Woe's me ( quoth she ) that ever I was born to come to London City , For now , alas , I am made a scorn and none my woes will pity . But Oh the Bryer , etc Mine Eame and Aunt have often said at home that London is a place , Where Lasses may to preferment come , within a little space : This I find true though they meant otherwise , which makes me thus lament , My belly does to preferment rise , as if some Bairn were in't .. With Oh the Bryer , the bony bony Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Would I had stayed in Lancashire , to milk my mother's Neat . These words did my desire inflame , at home I could not bide But up to London in haste I came , I may bewail the Tide , A now I wish'd that I at home had stayed , and not preferment sought , I'm neither Widow , Wife , nor Maid then what may I be thought . With Oh the Bryet , the bony bony Bryer , the Bryer that is so sweet , Would I had stayed in Lancashire to milk my mother's Neat . I had in London tarried but a year , yet in that tiny while , I fell in love with a bonny Bryer , the sweetest in a mile : He much goodwill did bear unto me , I think he did not feign , For by a craven lately he , was in my quarrel slain . Sing Oh the Bryer , etc Before that deer and most unhappy day , he with my free consent , Had taken , alas my maidenhead away , and to wed me in haste he mean But my great belly seems me to twit , with my too wanton carriage , To loose that Jem I wanted wit , before my day of marriage . But Oh the Bryer , the bonny bonny Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Would I had stayed in Lancashire , to milk my mother's Neat . The second Part To the same tune . BUt just foure days before the pointed time that should have made me a wife , Sweet Willy-Bryer was slain in his prime being stab'd to the heart with a knife : But had it been with Staff or Sword , all in the open field , The Rascal would have eat his word , that thus my deer hath kil'd . With Oh the Bryer , the bonny bonny Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Would I had stayed in Lancashire , to milk my mother's Neat . Woe worth the wretch wherever he be fled , would I reveng'd could be , Lost is my Love and my Maidenhead , what shall become of me : Might I but see him hanging by the crag , that causeth all this woe . Twould something mitigate the plague , which I must undergo . But Oh the Bryer , etc What shall I do , my shame I cannot hide , my belly will be known And all my friends and kin will me chide , for giving away mine own : To London City will I go no more , where I have dwelled a year , Yet if I knew how to salve my soar , i'd go home to Lancashire . But Oh the Bryer , etc I hearing her last speeches that she spoke , rose and to her I stepped , More pity did my heart provoke , to see how soar she wep Fair lass , quoth I , go home unto your friends that is your safest way , Great misery all such attends , that in your case here stay . With Oh the Bryer , the bonny bonny Bryer . the Bryer that is so sweet , Go get thee home into Lancashire , and milk thy mother's Neat . She blushing said , Sir I thank you heartily , for this your counsel kind But in this field I had rather die with could and hunger pinde : Then to my Kin be made a jest , for going thus astray , Sweetheart quoth I , set your heart at rest , and list what I shall say . With Oh the Bryer , etc Go home unto your friends fair Lass , tell them that your good man : I'th the Swedish wars late killed was , none there disprove you can : This is the way which commonly is done and when that you are laid , You'l soon be match'd with a Yeomans son , and and honest wife be made . With Oh the Bryer , etc She promised me my counsel to embrace , and seemed in mind conten She wiped the tears quite from her face , and to Totnam Court she went ? On her some Cakes and Ale , I did bestow , then she no longer tarried , But home to Lancashire she did go , where since I hear shee's married . With Oh the Bryer , the bonny bonny Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Now is the Lass in Lancashire , and milks her mother's Neat . FINIS Printed at London for F. G. on Snow-hill . The Bonny Bryer , OR A Lancashire Lass , her soar lamentation , For the death of her Love , and her own reputation . To the tune of the Bonny Broom . ONe morning early by the break of day , walking to Totnam-Court Upon the left hand of the high way , I herd a sad report ; I made a stay , and look'd about me then , wondering from whence it was , At last I spied within my ken a blithe and buxom Lass . Sing Oh the Bryer , the bony bony Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Would I had stayed in Lancashire , to milk my mother's Neat . I drew more near and laid me all along , upon the grass so green , Where I might hear her dulcid tongue , yet I was from her unseen : Woe's me ( quoth she ) that ever I was born to come to London City , For now , alas , I am made a scorn and none my woes will pity . But Oh the Bryer , etc Mine Eame and Aunt have often said at home that London is a place , Where Lasses may to preferment come , within a little space : This I find true though they meant otherwise , which makes me thus lament , My belly does to preferment rise , as if some Bairn were in't .. With Oh the Bryer , the bony bony Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Would I had stayed in Lancashire , to milk my mother's Neat . These words did my desire inflame , at home I could not bide But up to London in haste I came , I may bewail the Tide , A now I wish'd that I at home had stayed , and not preferment sought , I'm neither Widow , Wife , nor Maid then what may I be thought . With Oh the Bryet , the bony bony Bryer , the Bryer that is so sweet , Would I had stayed in Lancashire to milk my mother's Neat . I had in London tarried but a year , yet in that tiny while , I fell in love with a bonny Bryer , the sweetest in a mile : He much goodwill did bear unto me , I think he did not feign , For by a craven lately he , was in my quarrel slain . Sing Oh the Bryer , etc Before that deer and most unhappy day , he with my free consent , Had taken , alas my maidenhead away , and to wed me in haste he mean But my great belly seems me to twit , with my too wanton carriage , To loose that Jem I wanted wit , before my day of marriage . But Oh the Bryer , the bonny bonny Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Would I had stayed in Lancashire , to milk my mother's Neat . The second Part To the same tune . BUt just foure days before the pointed time that should have made me a wife , Sweet Willy-Bryer was slain in his prime being stab'd to the heart with a knife : But had it been with Staff or Sword , all in the open field , The Rascal would have eat his word , that thus my deer hath kil'd . With Oh the Bryer , the bonny bonny Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Would I had stayed in Lancashire , to milk my mother's Neat . Woe worth the wretch wherever he be fled , would I reveng'd could be , Lost is my Love and my Maidenhead , what shall become of me : Might I but see him hanging by the crag , that causeth all this woe . Twould something mitigate the plague , which I must undergo . But Oh the Bryer , etc What shall I do , my shame I cannot hide , my belly will be known And all my friends and kin will me chide , for giving away mine own : To London City will I go no more , where I have dwelled a year , Yet if I knew how to salve my soar , i'd go home to Lancashire . But Oh the Bryer , etc I hearing her last speeches that she spoke , rose and to her I stepped , More pity did my heart provoke , to see how soar she wep Fair lass , quoth I , go home unto your friends that is your safest way , Great misery all such attends , that in your case here stay . With Oh the Bryer , the bonny bonny Bryer . the Bryer that is so sweet , Go get thee home into Lancashire , and milk thy mother's Neat . She blushing said , Sir I thank you heartily , for this your counsel kind But in this field I had rather die with could and hunger pinde : Then to my Kin be made a jest , for going thus astray , Sweetheart quoth I , set your heart at rest , and list what I shall say . With Oh the Bryer , etc Go home unto your friends fair Lass , tell them that your good man : I'th the Swedish wars late killed was , none there disprove you can : This is the way which commonly is done and when that you are laid , You'l soon be match'd with a Yeomans son , and and honest wife be made . With Oh the Bryer , etc She promised me my counsel to embrace , and seemed in mind conten She wiped the tears quite from her face , and to Totnam Court she went ? On her some Cakes and Ale , I did bestow , then she no longer tarried , But home to Lancashire she did go , where since I hear shee's married . With Oh the Bryer , the bonny bonny Bryer , the Bryer that is so swee Now is the Lass in Lancashire , and milks her mother's Neat . FINIS Printed at London for F. G. on Snow-hill . 