The Country FARMER ; OR , THE Buxom VIRGIN . To a New Tune , called , New-Market , or King James's Jig ; THere was a brisk Lass both Bonny and Brown , That courted her Sweet heart , in our Town , She laid by her work , her wheel , and Yarn , To find out her love in the Farmers Barn , Quoth she , if thou wilt be married , We'l high to the Priest , then to bed , My Virgin Treasure i'le give thee Ned , That is to be plain my Maidenhead . You know that my love is a Flame of Fire , And burns when it cannot obtain desire , My Beauty is now in it's bloom and prime , And I cannot , nor wonnot delay the time : I long for to taste of those tender joys , Those soft Kisses , and wanton Toys , That every Maid in her Wedding enjoys , When Lasses with Lovers get lusty Boys . A Garland of Flowers my love shall wear , And i'le give him a lock of my coal-black-hair , At every Wake my love i'le treat , And i'le give him kind busses as Cream-Bowls sweet ; Thou shalt be my Buck and i'le be thy Doe , And i'le Milk , and thou shalt mow , I'le Carded , and i'le Spin , while you Harrow and sow And call upon Dobbin with Hey-ge-woe . Quoth Ned , for your Love I take no care , But busy my self with my Blow , and Mare . Young Cupid I think is a lazy Loon , And beside I intend for to marry Joan ? Quoth Nell , as for Joan she will never Wed , She lies like and Eunuch in her dull Bed , She's ugly , and Old , looks paler then Led , Not like a Brisk Lass of a Woman bred . Young Colin upon Martilla's Cheeks A thousand delightful pleasures seeks , He kisses her of't by her own goodwill , And will scarcely once let her all night lie still : Come touch but my lips , with those lips of thine , They are all melting , and all divine , Like Grapes that appear on the Springing Vine , As plump , and as soft , and as sweet as thine . My dearest quoth Ned , i'le but clout my shoone , And we will be Married before 'tis noon : I'le go to the Church and a License bring , And buy thee a dainty fine Golden Ring : I'le give thee to ride on my pacing Roan , With the Gray Pillian I lent to Joan , Ah! ways me poor Jug , how will she make moan , That Fate has design'd her to lie alone . While Jug feels the pains of Cupids Dart , That wounds the breast of each Lovers heart , She'l fit and she'l sighs upon the Plain , And rehearse her disloyal Shepherd's name , While thee my dear Gill in my arms i'le hug , And hide thee in the soft Sheet and Rugg , Poor Joan shall look pale , that never looked smugg , Adieu to my gentle sweet Jugg-Jugg-Jugg . Though Juggy be crusty what need I care , For she may have Lovers enough to spare , But now she is lately so sour grown , She minds not the youngmen that make their more [ and ] Yet lusty for Life , and full of good will , I was yesterday , so I am still , I'll bring all my Grist to my true Lovers Mill , And hug and make much of my Gill , Gill , Gill. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner [ . ] The Country FARMER ; OR , THE Buxom VIRGIN . To a New Tune , called , New-Market , or King James's Jig ; THere was a brisk Lass both Bonny and Brown , That courted her Sweet heart , in our Town , She laid by her work , her wheel , and Yarn , To find out her love in the Farmers Barn , Quoth she , if thou wilt be married , We'l high to the Priest , then to bed , My Virgin Treasure i'le give thee Ned , That is to be plain my Maidenhead . You know that my love is a Flame of Fire , And burns when it cannot obtain desire , My Beauty is now in it's bloom and prime , And I cannot , nor wonnot delay the time : I long for to taste of those tender joys , Those soft Kisses , and wanton Toys , That every Maid in her Wedding enjoys , When Lasses with Lovers get lusty Boys . A Garland of Flowers my love shall wear , And i'le give him a lock of my coal-black-hair , At every Wake my love i'le treat , And i'le give him kind busses as Cream-Bowls sweet ; Thou shalt be my Buck and i'le be thy Doe , And i'le Milk , and thou shalt mow , I'le Carded , and i'le Spin , while you Harrow and sow And call upon Dobbin with Hey-ge-woe . Quoth Ned , for your Love I take no care , But busy my self with my Blow , and Mare . Young Cupid I think is a lazy Loon , And beside I intend for to marry Joan ? Quoth Nell , as for Joan she will never Wed , She lies like and Eunuch in her dull Bed , She's ugly , and Old , looks paler then Led , Not like a Brisk Lass of a Woman bred . Young Colin upon Martilla's Cheeks A thousand delightful pleasures seeks , He kisses her of't by her own goodwill , And will scarcely once let her all night lie still : Come touch but my lips , with those lips of thine , They are all melting , and all divine , Like Grapes that appear on the Springing Vine , As plump , and as soft , and as sweet as thine . My dearest quoth Ned , i'le but clout my shoone , And we will be Married before 'tis noon : I'le go to the Church and a License bring , And buy thee a dainty fine Golden Ring : I'le give thee to ride on my pacing Roan , With the Gray Pillian I lent to Joan , Ah! ways me poor Jug , how will she make moan , That Fate has design'd her to lie alone . While Jug feels the pains of Cupids Dart , That wounds the breast of each Lovers heart , She'l fit and she'l sighs upon the Plain , And rehearse her disloyal Shepherd's name , While thee my dear Gill in my arms i'le hug , And hide thee in the soft Sheet and Rugg , Poor Joan shall look pale , that never looked smugg , Adieu to my gentle sweet Jugg-Jugg-Jugg . Though Juggy be crusty what need I care , For she may have Lovers enough to spare , But now she is lately so sour grown , She minds not the youngmen that make their more [ and ] Yet lusty for Life , and full of good will , I was yesterday , so I am still , I'll bring all my Grist to my true Lovers Mill , And hug and make much of my Gill , Gill , Gill. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner [ . ] The Country FARMER ; OR , THE Buxom VIRGIN . To a New Tune , called , New-Market , or King James's Jig ; THere was a brisk Lass both Bonny and Brown , That courted her Sweet heart , in our Town , She laid by her work , her wheel , and Yarn , To find out her love in the Farmers Barn , Quoth she , if thou wilt be married , We'l high to the Priest , then to bed , My Virgin Treasure i'le give thee Ned , That is to be plain my Maidenhead . You know that my love is a Flame of Fire , And burns when it cannot obtain desire , My Beauty is now in it's bloom and prime , And I cannot , nor wonnot delay the time : I long for to taste of those tender joys , Those soft Kisses , and wanton Toys , That every Maid in her Wedding enjoys , When Lasses with Lovers get lusty Boys . A Garland of Flowers my love shall wear , And i'le give him a lock of my coal-black-hair , At every Wake my love i'le treat , And i'le give him kind busses as Cream-Bowls sweet ; Thou shalt be my Buck and i'le be thy Doe , And i'le Milk , and thou shalt mow , I'le Carded , and i'le Spin , while you Harrow and sow And call upon Dobbin with Hey-ge-woe . Quoth Ned , for your Love I take no care , But busy my self with my Blow , and Mare . Young Cupid I think is a lazy Loon , And beside I intend for to marry Joan ? Quoth Nell , as for Joan she will never Wed , She lies like and Eunuch in her dull Bed , She's ugly , and Old , looks paler then Led , Not like a Brisk Lass of a Woman bred . Young Colin upon Martilla's Cheeks A thousand delightful pleasures seeks , He kisses her of't by her own goodwill , And will scarcely once let her all night lie still : Come touch but my lips , with those lips of thine , They are all melting , and all divine , Like Grapes that appear on the Springing Vine , As plump , and as soft , and as sweet as thine . My dearest quoth Ned , i'le but clout my shoone , And we will be Married before 'tis noon : I'le go to the Church and a License bring , And buy thee a dainty fine Golden Ring : I'le give thee to ride on my pacing Roan , With the Gray Pillian I lent to Joan , Ah! ways me poor Jug , how will she make moan , That Fate has design'd her to lie alone . While Jug feels the pains of Cupids Dart , That wounds the breast of each Lovers heart , She'l fit and she'l sighs upon the Plain , And rehearse her disloyal Shepherd's name , While thee my dear Gill in my arms i'le hug , And hide thee in the soft Sheet and Rugg , Poor Joan shall look pale , that never looked smugg , Adieu to my gentle sweet Jugg-Jugg-Jugg . Though Juggy be crusty what need I care , For she may have Lovers enough to spare , But now she is lately so sour grown , She minds not the youngmen that make their more [ and ] Yet lusty for Life , and full of good will , I was yesterday , so I am still , I'll bring all my Grist to my true Lovers Mill , And hug and make much of my Gill , Gill , Gill. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner [ . ] The Country FARMER ; OR , THE Buxom VIRGIN . To a New Tune , called , New-Market , or King James's Jig ; THere was a brisk Lass both Bonny and Brown , That courted her Sweet heart , in our Town , She laid by her work , her wheel , and Yarn , To find out her love in the Farmers Barn , Quoth she , if thou wilt be married , We'l high to the Priest , then to bed , My Virgin Treasure i'le give thee Ned , That is to be plain my Maidenhead . You know that my love is a Flame of Fire , And burns when it cannot obtain desire , My Beauty is now in it's bloom and prime , And I cannot , nor wonnot delay the time : I long for to taste of those tender joys , Those soft Kisses , and wanton Toys , That every Maid in her Wedding enjoys , When Lasses with Lovers get lusty Boys . A Garland of Flowers my love shall wear , And i'le give him a lock of my coal-black-hair , At every Wake my love i'le treat , And i'le give him kind busses as Cream-Bowls sweet ; Thou shalt be my Buck and i'le be thy Doe , And i'le Milk , and thou shalt mow , I'le Carded , and i'le Spin , while you Harrow and sow And call upon Dobbin with Hey-ge-woe . Quoth Ned , for your Love I take no care , But busy my self with my Blow , and Mare . Young Cupid I think is a lazy Loon , And beside I intend for to marry Joan ? Quoth Nell , as for Joan she will never Wed , She lies like and Eunuch in her dull Bed , She's ugly , and Old , looks paler then Led , Not like a Brisk Lass of a Woman bred . Young Colin upon Martilla's Cheeks A thousand delightful pleasures seeks , He kisses her of't by her own goodwill , And will scarcely once let her all night lie still : Come touch but my lips , with those lips of thine , They are all melting , and all divine , Like Grapes that appear on the Springing Vine , As plump , and as soft , and as sweet as thine . My dearest quoth Ned , i'le but clout my shoone , And we will be Married before 'tis noon : I'le go to the Church and a License bring , And buy thee a dainty fine Golden Ring : I'le give thee to ride on my pacing Roan , With the Gray Pillian I lent to Joan , Ah! ways me poor Jug , how will she make moan , That Fate has design'd her to lie alone . While Jug feels the pains of Cupids Dart , That wounds the breast of each Lovers heart , She'l fit and she'l sighs upon the Plain , And rehearse her disloyal Shepherd's name , While thee my dear Gill in my arms i'le hug , And hide thee in the soft Sheet and Rugg , Poor Joan shall look pale , that never looked smugg , Adieu to my gentle sweet Jugg-Jugg-Jugg . Though Juggy be crusty what need I care , For she may have Lovers enough to spare , But now she is lately so sour grown , She minds not the youngmen that make their more [ and ] Yet lusty for Life , and full of good will , I was yesterday , so I am still , I'll bring all my Grist to my true Lovers Mill , And hug and make much of my Gill , Gill , Gill. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner [ . ] 