THE Country Parson's Folly : Or , the Young Dutch Woman of Westminster come off with Flying Colours . To the Tune of Folly , desperate Folly , etc IT is reported in the East , a Scholar of late did dwell , Who on young Maids did love to feast , It pleased his humour well : But coming to London , he chanc'd to adore A pretty Dutch Frow , which did pay his old score , Now this was a plague , and the devil all o'er . O Parson , delicate Parson , How do you like the Town . He came to a Dutch ordnary , where he the young frow beheld , And when her tempting charms he see , he was with a rapture fill'd : She was of the birth and the breed of the Dutch , He pull'd out his money altho' 'twas not much For why , he was eager and mad for a touch . O Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you play the fool ? Her country man a marriage read After the Dutch fashion too , This done , 'tis said they went to bed , without any more to do . He pitch'd on a subject was hard by the rump , And into her Pulpit he straitways did jump , Where all the long-night he her cushion did thump Oh Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you play the fool ? He gave her money the next day , to make her both neat and trim , Silks , ribbons , laces rich and gay , in order to go with him Down into the country where did reside , For she was as sweet and as pleasant a bride , As ever young gallant did lie by the side . O Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you play the fool ? He many solemn vows did make , when he did the money give , That he his love would ne'er forsake , while he had a day to live : But yet , when his pocket began to be low , Why then from his vows he was willing to go , And likewise a scandal on her he did throw . O Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you play the fool ? He having had his fill of her , he call'd for his coin again , Making a noise and strange demur , resolving he would Arraign This pretty sweet creature , his joy & deli [ ght ] Pretending she took it away by a slight , Which loss was sufficient to ruin him queen [ item . ] O Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you serve her so ? This pretty creature she was try'd , for what she had never done , This was ill treating of a bride , but she has the conquest wone : For when in the court at the bar she appe [ ar'd , ] And that the wise jury the story had herd [ , ] The scholar was flouted , the woman was cle [ ar'd . ] O Parson , delicate Parson , How did you like the Game ? In this you have not aged well , alas , you are much to blame , That such a man should kiss and tell , Oh that is a burning shame ; If you had been wise , you had let her alon [ e , ] And then your grand folly had never been kn [ own , ] But now far & near it is scatter'd and blo [ wn . ] O Parson , delicate Parson , Never do so no more . London , Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp , near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfie [ ld . ] THE Country Parson's Folly : Or , the Young Dutch Woman of Westminster come off with Flying Colours . To the Tune of Folly , desperate Folly , etc IT is reported in the East , a Scholar of late did dwell , Who on young Maids did love to feast , It pleased his humour well : But coming to London , he chanc'd to adore A pretty Dutch Frow , which did pay his old score , Now this was a plague , and the devil all o'er . O Parson , delicate Parson , How do you like the Town . He came to a Dutch ordnary , where he the young frow beheld , And when her tempting charms he see , he was with a rapture fill'd : She was of the birth and the breed of the Dutch , He pull'd out his money altho' 'twas not much For why , he was eager and mad for a touch . O Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you play the fool ? Her country man a marriage read After the Dutch fashion too , This done , 'tis said they went to bed , without any more to do . He pitch'd on a subject was hard by the rump , And into her Pulpit he straitways did jump , Where all the long-night he her cushion did thump Oh Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you play the fool ? He gave her money the next day , to make her both neat and trim , Silks , ribbons , laces rich and gay , in order to go with him Down into the country where did reside , For she was as sweet and as pleasant a bride , As ever young gallant did lie by the side . O Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you play the fool ? He many solemn vows did make , when he did the money give , That he his love would ne'er forsake , while he had a day to live : But yet , when his pocket began to be low , Why then from his vows he was willing to go , And likewise a scandal on her he did throw . O Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you play the fool ? He having had his fill of her , he call'd for his coin again , Making a noise and strange demur , resolving he would Arraign This pretty sweet creature , his joy & deli [ ght ] Pretending she took it away by a slight , Which loss was sufficient to ruin him queen [ item . ] O Parson , delicate Parson , Why wou'd you serve her so ? This pretty creature she was try'd , for what she had never done , This was ill treating of a bride , but she has the conquest wone : For when in the court at the bar she appe [ ar'd , ] And that the wise jury the story had herd [ , ] The scholar was flouted , the woman was cle [ ar'd . ] O Parson , delicate Parson , How did you like the Game ? In this you have not aged well , alas , you are much to blame , That such a man should kiss and tell , Oh that is a burning shame ; If you had been wise , you had let her alon [ e , ] And then your grand folly had never been kn [ own , ] But now far & near it is scatter'd and blo [ wn . ] O Parson , delicate Parson , Never do so no more . London , Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp , near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfie [ ld . ] 