The Constant Country-Man . Or , A Loving Dialogue between honest Thomas and his True-Love Nancy . Tune is , Woman-Warrier . Licensed according to Order . Man. Pretty Nancy my love , I adore thee above All Lasses that e-e-e-e-e-e-e-ver I courted ; For thy bright shining eyes Does my senses surprise , And thy glory , thy glory , I long have reported . Maid . Nay , but Thomas , she cry'd . Then it seems you have try'd young Maids , having fla-a-a-a-a-a-a - [ tered ] many , Which discovers that you Are both false and untrue ; And will never , will never , be faithful to any . Man. I must needs speak the truth , In the days of my Youth , With Damsels I th-e-e-e-e-e-e-en took my pleasure , But I'm now wiser grown , And I love thee alone , Oh , I love thee , I love thee , my dear out of measure , Maid . Men are crafty when young , With a flattering tongue . They commonly str-i-i-i-i-i-i-ive to deceive us , When our hearts they have wone , To another they run , Thus ungrateful , ungrateful , young Bachelors leave us [ . ] Man. They are more than unkind , That can be of that mind , But for mine own p-a-a-a-a-a-a-art I am loyal . As a Token , I bring Thee a delicate Ring , Nancy therefore , Oh therefore , make no more denial . Maid . Nay , your Ring you may keep , Who have caus'd Maids to weep , For my part I'm lo-o-o-o-o-oth to receive it , You have long us'd the Trade Of deceiving each Maid , And I'm fearful , I'm fearful you never will leave it . Man. Loyal love , I declare , And most solemnly swear , No Creature now l-i-i-i-i-i-iving shall sever My dear Jewel and I , Then my Suit don't deny , For I love thee , I love thee , I love thee for ever . Maid . Was I certain that you Would be loyal and true , My heart I would str-a-a-a-a-a-aightways surrender , And a promise I'd give , That as long as I live , I would honour , I'd honour , and love my pretender . Man. Love , I vow and protest , As I hope to be blessed , I never inte-e-e-e-e-e-nd to deceive thee , But will love thee as life , And thou shalt be my Wife , As a Jewel , a Jewel , or Pearl I'll receive thee . Maid . By the Powers above , I believe thee my love , Therefore I my F-a-a-a-a-a-avours am showing , Here is hand , heart and all , In thy Arms do I fallen , Where a Million , a Million of Pleasures are flowing . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Constant Country-Man . Or , A Loving Dialogue between honest Thomas and his True-Love Nancy . Tune is , Woman-Warrier . Licensed according to Order . Man. Pretty Nancy my love , I adore thee above All Lasses that e-e-e-e-e-e-e-ver I courted ; For thy bright shining eyes Does my senses surprise , And thy glory , thy glory , I long have reported . Maid . Nay , but Thomas , she cry'd . Then it seems you have try'd young Maids , having fla-a-a-a-a-a-a - [ tered ] many , Which discovers that you Are both false and untrue ; And will never , will never , be faithful to any . Man. I must needs speak the truth , In the days of my Youth , With Damsels I th-e-e-e-e-e-e-en took my pleasure , But I'm now wiser grown , And I love thee alone , Oh , I love thee , I love thee , my dear out of measure , Maid . Men are crafty when young , With a flattering tongue . They commonly str-i-i-i-i-i-i-ive to deceive us , When our hearts they have wone , To another they run , Thus ungrateful , ungrateful , young Bachelors leave us [ . ] Man. They are more than unkind , That can be of that mind , But for mine own p-a-a-a-a-a-a-art I am loyal . As a Token , I bring Thee a delicate Ring , Nancy therefore , Oh therefore , make no more denial . Maid . Nay , your Ring you may keep , Who have caus'd Maids to weep , For my part I'm lo-o-o-o-o-oth to receive it , You have long us'd the Trade Of deceiving each Maid , And I'm fearful , I'm fearful you never will leave it . Man. Loyal love , I declare , And most solemnly swear , No Creature now l-i-i-i-i-i-iving shall sever My dear Jewel and I , Then my Suit don't deny , For I love thee , I love thee , I love thee for ever . Maid . Was I certain that you Would be loyal and true , My heart I would str-a-a-a-a-a-aightways surrender , And a promise I'd give , That as long as I live , I would honour , I'd honour , and love my pretender . Man. Love , I vow and protest , As I hope to be blessed , I never inte-e-e-e-e-e-nd to deceive thee , But will love thee as life , And thou shalt be my Wife , As a Jewel , a Jewel , or Pearl I'll receive thee . Maid . By the Powers above , I believe thee my love , Therefore I my F-a-a-a-a-a-avours am showing , Here is hand , heart and all , In thy Arms do I fallen , Where a Million , a Million of Pleasures are flowing . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 