The Court-Miss Converted : OR , A Looking-Glass fo [ r ] Ladies . Her former errors she does now repent , And with unfeigned tears the same lament ; Resolving now a godly-life to led , And in such wicked paths no more to tread : Which may a good example be to all , To rise from since , if they by frailty fallen . Tune of , Englands fair dainty Dams . WHen Phoebus with his Beams , guilded the Christial Day , I herd a mournful voice , thus to lament and say , You Ladies of Renown , give ear unto my Song ; Because that unto you it chiefly does belong . Of Noble Parentage 'tis known that I was born , And those of low Degree , too much I held in scorn . In my fresh blooming years , Pride did possess my mind ; For costly Rich attire , I sought always to find . My Glass it was my Book , wherein I took delight ; In it I us'd to look , from morning until night . And for to tell the truth , while I was in my prime ; My Beauty did excel most Ladies foe my time . GAllants of high Degree , came me for to behold ; And oft presented me with Chains of beaten gold . Happy he thought himself , that could my favour gain ; For I was nice and coy , to all that ever came . At length my beauty bright , was noised in the Court ; A place of great delight , where Gallants do resort . Then was I sent for straight , by some of high degree , Who then did for me wait , and took delight in me . Such pleasure there I took , as did rejoice my heart ; All virtue I forsook , which did procure my smart . The life I there did led , grieves me to think upon , For every day I was treated by many one . Until my Conscience it began for to awake ; And put me in the mind , that lend life to forsake . Then from those vain delights , I did my self withdraw ; Resolving for to live , up to Gods Holy-Law . In heart I do Repent , my youthful Vanities ; Praising the Lord that sent his light into my eyes . Now from all filthy vice , I purpose to refrain , And with Repentant tears , to wash away my stain . And in my Closet I daily will pardon crave , And to the Lord will cry , that he my Soul will save . Let my Example teach , Ladies of each degree : Those sins for to avoid , which wrought my misery . For Pride will have a Fallen , and Beauty is but vain : Strive on the Lord to call , and from all vice refrain . I wish all sinners they , do keep these words in mind : That so therein they may some comfort daily find . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Court-Miss Converted : OR , A Looking-Glass fo [ r ] Ladies . Her former errors she does now repent , And with unfeigned tears the same lament ; Resolving now a godly-life to led , And in such wicked paths no more to tread : Which may a good example be to all , To rise from since , if they by frailty fallen . Tune of , Englands fair dainty Dams . WHen Phoebus with his Beams , guilded the Christial Day , I herd a mournful voice , thus to lament and say , You Ladies of Renown , give ear unto my Song ; Because that unto you it chiefly does belong . Of Noble Parentage 'tis known that I was born , And those of low Degree , too much I held in scorn . In my fresh blooming years , Pride did possess my mind ; For costly Rich attire , I sought always to find . My Glass it was my Book , wherein I took delight ; In it I us'd to look , from morning until night . And for to tell the truth , while I was in my prime ; My Beauty did excel most Ladies foe my time . GAllants of high Degree , came me for to behold ; And oft presented me with Chains of beaten gold . Happy he thought himself , that could my favour gain ; For I was nice and coy , to all that ever came . At length my beauty bright , was noised in the Court ; A place of great delight , where Gallants do resort . Then was I sent for straight , by some of high degree , Who then did for me wait , and took delight in me . Such pleasure there I took , as did rejoice my heart ; All virtue I forsook , which did procure my smart . The life I there did led , grieves me to think upon , For every day I was treated by many one . Until my Conscience it began for to awake ; And put me in the mind , that lend life to forsake . Then from those vain delights , I did my self withdraw ; Resolving for to live , up to Gods Holy-Law . In heart I do Repent , my youthful Vanities ; Praising the Lord that sent his light into my eyes . Now from all filthy vice , I purpose to refrain , And with Repentant tears , to wash away my stain . And in my Closet I daily will pardon crave , And to the Lord will cry , that he my Soul will save . Let my Example teach , Ladies of each degree : Those sins for to avoid , which wrought my misery . For Pride will have a Fallen , and Beauty is but vain : Strive on the Lord to call , and from all vice refrain . I wish all sinners they , do keep these words in mind : That so therein they may some comfort daily find . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 