And excellent new Medley , Which you may admire at ( without offence ) For every line speaks a contrary senses To the tune of , Tarletons Medley . IN Summer time when folks make Hay , All is not true which people say , The foole's the wisest in the play , tush take away your hand : The Fiddlers boy hath broke his Base , Sirs is not this a piteous case , Most gallants loath to smell the Mace of Woodstreet . The City follows Courtly pride , Jone swears she cannot John abide , Dicke wears a Dagger by his side . come tell us what's to pay : The Lawyers thrive by others fallen , The weakest always goes to'th wall , The Shoemaker commands all at's pleasure . The Weaver prays for Huswives store , A pretty woman was Jane Shore . Kick the base Rascals out o'th door : peace , peace , you bawling Curs . A Cuckolds band wears out behind , This easy to beguile the blind , All people are not of one mind , hold Carmen . Our women cut their hair like men , The Cocke's overmastered by the Hen There's hardly one good friend in ten , turn there on your right hand : But few regard the cries o'th poor , Will spendeth all upon a whore , The Soldier longeth to go over , brave knocking . When the fifth Henry sailed to France , Let me alone for a Country dance , Nell does bewail her luckless chance , fie on false hearted men : Dicke Tarleton was a merry wag , Hark how that prating ass does brag , John Dory sold his ambling Nag , for Kicke-shawes . The Sailor counts the Ship his house , I'll say no more but dun's the Mouse , He is no man that scorns a Louse , vain pride undoes the Land : Hard hearted men make Corn so deer , Few Frenchmen love well English beer , I hope ere long good news to hear , heigh Lusticke . Now hides are cheap , the Tanner thrives , Hang those base men that beat their wives . He needs must go that the Devil drives , God bless us from a Gun : The Beadles make the lame to run , Vaunt not before the battaile's won , A Cloud sometime may hide the Sun , chance medley . The Second Part. To the same tune . THy friend such lewdness soon will check , And tell thee thou art like to lack , Hee'l bid thee always have a care Of that which thou dost little fear , And that is , poverty will grow , Which thy true friend would not have so . The false and feigned Flatterer Will seek to trap thee in his snare , His words most sweet shall still appear To get thy money , wine and beer : These are certain signs to know A faithful friend from a flattering foe . If that thy friend be true indeed , Hee'l not forsake thee in thy need , Hee'l take thy part in weal and woe , Thy flattering friend will not do so : These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Now some perchance may this object , And say they are of the true Sect , But such I'll never trust till I Their inward thoughts do prove and try , Then I certain am to know A faithful , etc If that you want , then needs of force , For your relief you'l take some course , Need stands behind and bids you go , The kindness of men's hearts to know , And where once you have try'd it so , You'l know your friend , etc Thy friend will wondrous sorry be To see thee fallen to misery , And to his power hee'l give relief To ease thy dolour , woe and grief : These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Your fair tongu'd fawning hypocrite Will say that you were void of wit , To spend your means so foolishly , And lack so long before you die . These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Then this advice take then of me , Before need comes go thou and see , Try while thou hast of thine own , And see where favour may be shown : Then thou soon shalt find and know A faithful , etc And look where thou didst favour find , There be not wavering like the wind , If that thy friend prove just and true , Then do not change him for a new : Thus to all men I do show The difference twix a friend and foe . For my part I may plainly say , That friends are apt for to decay , In wealth a man shall have great store , But very few if once grown poor : This I write for men to know A faithful , etc When I had means then I had friends , But now I want , their friendship ends , Now but few will take my part , Nor help release me of my smar This I have writ for men to know A faithful , etc Thus to conclude and end my Song , Let me advice both old and young , If thou do wish for many friends , Then have a care and get some means : Then you need not care to know A faithful friend from a flattering foe . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . FINIS . C.R. And excellent new Medley , Which you may admire at ( without offence ) For every line speaks a contrary senses To the tune of , Tarletons Medley . IN Summer time when folks make Hay , All is not true which people say , The foole's the wisest in the play , tush take away your hand : The Fiddlers boy hath broke his Base , Sirs is not this a piteous case , Most gallants loath to smell the Mace of Woodstreet . The City follows Courtly pride , Jone swears she cannot John abide , Dicke wears a Dagger by his side . come tell us what's to pay : The Lawyers thrive by others fallen , The weakest always goes to'th wall , The Shoemaker commands all at's pleasure . The Weaver prays for Huswives store , A pretty woman was Jane Shore . Kick the base Rascals out o'th door : peace , peace , you bawling Curs . A Cuckolds band wears out behind , This easy to beguile the blind , All people are not of one mind , hold Carmen . Our women cut their hair like men , The Cocke's overmastered by the Hen There's hardly one good friend in ten , turn there on your right hand : But few regard the cries o'th poor , Will spendeth all upon a whore , The Soldier longeth to go over , brave knocking . When the fifth Henry sailed to France , Let me alone for a Country dance , Nell does bewail her luckless chance , fie on false hearted men : Dicke Tarleton was a merry wag , Hark how that prating ass does brag , John Dory sold his ambling Nag , for Kicke-shawes . The Sailor counts the Ship his house , I'll say no more but dun's the Mouse , He is no man that scorns a Louse , vain pride undoes the Land : Hard hearted men make Corn so deer , Few Frenchmen love well English beer , I hope ere long good news to hear , heigh Lusticke . Now hides are cheap , the Tanner thrives , Hang those base men that beat their wives . He needs must go that the Devil drives , God bless us from a Gun : The Beadles make the lame to run , Vaunt not before the battaile's won , A Cloud sometime may hide the Sun , chance medley . The Second Part. To the same tune . THy friend such lewdness soon will check , And tell thee thou art like to lack , Hee'l bid thee always have a care Of that which thou dost little fear , And that is , poverty will grow , Which thy true friend would not have so . The false and feigned Flatterer Will seek to trap thee in his snare , His words most sweet shall still appear To get thy money , wine and beer : These are certain signs to know A faithful friend from a flattering foe . If that thy friend be true indeed , Hee'l not forsake thee in thy need , Hee'l take thy part in weal and woe , Thy flattering friend will not do so : These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Now some perchance may this object , And say they are of the true Sect , But such I'll never trust till I Their inward thoughts do prove and try , Then I certain am to know A faithful , etc If that you want , then needs of force , For your relief you'l take some course , Need stands behind and bids you go , The kindness of men's hearts to know , And where once you have try'd it so , You'l know your friend , etc Thy friend will wondrous sorry be To see thee fallen to misery , And to his power hee'l give relief To ease thy dolour , woe and grief : These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Your fair tongu'd fawning hypocrite Will say that you were void of wit , To spend your means so foolishly , And lack so long before you die . These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Then this advice take then of me , Before need comes go thou and see , Try while thou hast of thine own , And see where favour may be shown : Then thou soon shalt find and know A faithful , etc And look where thou didst favour find , There be not wavering like the wind , If that thy friend prove just and true , Then do not change him for a new : Thus to all men I do show The difference twix a friend and foe . For my part I may plainly say , That friends are apt for to decay , In wealth a man shall have great store , But very few if once grown poor : This I write for men to know A faithful , etc When I had means then I had friends , But now I want , their friendship ends , Now but few will take my part , Nor help release me of my smar This I have writ for men to know A faithful , etc Thus to conclude and end my Song , Let me advice both old and young , If thou do wish for many friends , Then have a care and get some means : Then you need not care to know A faithful friend from a flattering foe . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . FINIS . C.R. And excellent new Medley , Which you may admire at ( without offence ) For every line speaks a contrary senses To the tune of , Tarletons Medley . IN Summer time when folks make Hay , All is not true which people say , The foole's the wisest in the play , tush take away your hand : The Fiddlers boy hath broke his Base , Sirs is not this a piteous case , Most gallants loath to smell the Mace of Woodstreet . The City follows Courtly pride , Jone swears she cannot John abide , Dicke wears a Dagger by his side . come tell us what's to pay : The Lawyers thrive by others fallen , The weakest always goes to'th wall , The Shoemaker commands all at's pleasure . The Weaver prays for Huswives store , A pretty woman was Jane Shore . Kick the base Rascals out o'th door : peace , peace , you bawling Curs . A Cuckolds band wears out behind , This easy to beguile the blind , All people are not of one mind , hold Carmen . Our women cut their hair like men , The Cocke's overmastered by the Hen There's hardly one good friend in ten , turn there on your right hand : But few regard the cries o'th poor , Will spendeth all upon a whore , The Soldier longeth to go over , brave knocking . When the fifth Henry sailed to France , Let me alone for a Country dance , Nell does bewail her luckless chance , fie on false hearted men : Dicke Tarleton was a merry wag , Hark how that prating ass does brag , John Dory sold his ambling Nag , for Kicke-shawes . The Sailor counts the Ship his house , I'll say no more but dun's the Mouse , He is no man that scorns a Louse , vain pride undoes the Land : Hard hearted men make Corn so deer , Few Frenchmen love well English beer , I hope ere long good news to hear , heigh Lusticke . Now hides are cheap , the Tanner thrives , Hang those base men that beat their wives . He needs must go that the Devil drives , God bless us from a Gun : The Beadles make the lame to run , Vaunt not before the battaile's won , A Cloud sometime may hide the Sun , chance medley . The Second Part. To the same tune . THy friend such lewdness soon will check , And tell thee thou art like to lack , Hee'l bid thee always have a care Of that which thou dost little fear , And that is , poverty will grow , Which thy true friend would not have so . The false and feigned Flatterer Will seek to trap thee in his snare , His words most sweet shall still appear To get thy money , wine and beer : These are certain signs to know A faithful friend from a flattering foe . If that thy friend be true indeed , Hee'l not forsake thee in thy need , Hee'l take thy part in weal and woe , Thy flattering friend will not do so : These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Now some perchance may this object , And say they are of the true Sect , But such I'll never trust till I Their inward thoughts do prove and try , Then I certain am to know A faithful , etc If that you want , then needs of force , For your relief you'l take some course , Need stands behind and bids you go , The kindness of men's hearts to know , And where once you have try'd it so , You'l know your friend , etc Thy friend will wondrous sorry be To see thee fallen to misery , And to his power hee'l give relief To ease thy dolour , woe and grief : These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Your fair tongu'd fawning hypocrite Will say that you were void of wit , To spend your means so foolishly , And lack so long before you die . These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Then this advice take then of me , Before need comes go thou and see , Try while thou hast of thine own , And see where favour may be shown : Then thou soon shalt find and know A faithful , etc And look where thou didst favour find , There be not wavering like the wind , If that thy friend prove just and true , Then do not change him for a new : Thus to all men I do show The difference twix a friend and foe . For my part I may plainly say , That friends are apt for to decay , In wealth a man shall have great store , But very few if once grown poor : This I write for men to know A faithful , etc When I had means then I had friends , But now I want , their friendship ends , Now but few will take my part , Nor help release me of my smar This I have writ for men to know A faithful , etc Thus to conclude and end my Song , Let me advice both old and young , If thou do wish for many friends , Then have a care and get some means : Then you need not care to know A faithful friend from a flattering foe . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . FINIS . C.R. And excellent new Medley , Which you may admire at ( without offence ) For every line speaks a contrary senses To the tune of , Tarletons Medley . IN Summer time when folks make Hay , All is not true which people say , The foole's the wisest in the play , tush take away your hand : The Fiddlers boy hath broke his Base , Sirs is not this a piteous case , Most gallants loath to smell the Mace of Woodstreet . The City follows Courtly pride , Jone swears she cannot John abide , Dicke wears a Dagger by his side . come tell us what's to pay : The Lawyers thrive by others fallen , The weakest always goes to'th wall , The Shoemaker commands all at's pleasure . The Weaver prays for Huswives store , A pretty woman was Jane Shore . Kick the base Rascals out o'th door : peace , peace , you bawling Curs . A Cuckolds band wears out behind , This easy to beguile the blind , All people are not of one mind , hold Carmen . Our women cut their hair like men , The Cocke's overmastered by the Hen There's hardly one good friend in ten , turn there on your right hand : But few regard the cries o'th poor , Will spendeth all upon a whore , The Soldier longeth to go over , brave knocking . When the fifth Henry sailed to France , Let me alone for a Country dance , Nell does bewail her luckless chance , fie on false hearted men : Dicke Tarleton was a merry wag , Hark how that prating ass does brag , John Dory sold his ambling Nag , for Kicke-shawes . The Sailor counts the Ship his house , I'll say no more but dun's the Mouse , He is no man that scorns a Louse , vain pride undoes the Land : Hard hearted men make Corn so deer , Few Frenchmen love well English beer , I hope ere long good news to hear , heigh Lusticke . Now hides are cheap , the Tanner thrives , Hang those base men that beat their wives . He needs must go that the Devil drives , God bless us from a Gun : The Beadles make the lame to run , Vaunt not before the battaile's won , A Cloud sometime may hide the Sun , chance medley . The Second Part. To the same tune . THy friend such lewdness soon will check , And tell thee thou art like to lack , Hee'l bid thee always have a care Of that which thou dost little fear , And that is , poverty will grow , Which thy true friend would not have so . The false and feigned Flatterer Will seek to trap thee in his snare , His words most sweet shall still appear To get thy money , wine and beer : These are certain signs to know A faithful friend from a flattering foe . If that thy friend be true indeed , Hee'l not forsake thee in thy need , Hee'l take thy part in weal and woe , Thy flattering friend will not do so : These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Now some perchance may this object , And say they are of the true Sect , But such I'll never trust till I Their inward thoughts do prove and try , Then I certain am to know A faithful , etc If that you want , then needs of force , For your relief you'l take some course , Need stands behind and bids you go , The kindness of men's hearts to know , And where once you have try'd it so , You'l know your friend , etc Thy friend will wondrous sorry be To see thee fallen to misery , And to his power hee'l give relief To ease thy dolour , woe and grief : These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Your fair tongu'd fawning hypocrite Will say that you were void of wit , To spend your means so foolishly , And lack so long before you die . These are certain signs to know A faithful , etc Then this advice take then of me , Before need comes go thou and see , Try while thou hast of thine own , And see where favour may be shown : Then thou soon shalt find and know A faithful , etc And look where thou didst favour find , There be not wavering like the wind , If that thy friend prove just and true , Then do not change him for a new : Thus to all men I do show The difference twix a friend and foe . For my part I may plainly say , That friends are apt for to decay , In wealth a man shall have great store , But very few if once grown poor : This I write for men to know A faithful , etc When I had means then I had friends , But now I want , their friendship ends , Now but few will take my part , Nor help release me of my smar This I have writ for men to know A faithful , etc Thus to conclude and end my Song , Let me advice both old and young , If thou do wish for many friends , Then have a care and get some means : Then you need not care to know A faithful friend from a flattering foe . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . FINIS . C.R. 