The Counterfeit Court Lady : OR , And Answer to , Your Humble Servants Madam . Discovering all her cunning Knacks and feats , How wittily she does bestow her Cheats : By which she does much admiration gain , And in a splendid Garb her self maintain . To the Tune of , Your Humble servant Madam . I A am a Lass That does surpass , the beauty's of the City ; And near the Court , Where Blades resort , i'm counted wondrous witty : I have and oily Tongue , And very well it's hung , if that you will believe me ; Your flattering disease , My humour cannot please , for there's none that can deceive me No vapouring Cheat , Shall do the Feat , with such a Girl as I am ; I'le fit and smile , And him beguile , and all his Oaths defy 'um : He that will cog and lie , Gains not my company , when once his plot I faddam ; For I scorn that any man , Should ever me trappan , with your humble servant Madam . The Second Part , To the same Tune . AT my first Rise , I was so wise , to gain a great men favour ; And by my art , I wone his heart , all by my brisk behaviour : Where I had Gold at will , My mind for to fulfil , he willing was to grant it ; But though that he is gone , And I am left alone , I never fear to want it . My Rich attire , Made all admire , and by what means I gain'd it ; I have a Knack , To drink good Sack , and bravely to maintain i With my Pearl about my neck , And my Gallants at a beck , I us'd to drein their Purses ; Before they will not grant , Whatever I do want , they'l fell both Coach and Horses . To train up Youth , I speak the truth , upon my Reputation ; I do excel , And do it well , as any in the Nation : If I may gain their gold , I'le make them free and bold , there's none that shall outvie them , For all the art of Love , You shall of them approve , when e're you please to try them . Young Ladies they Observe my way , they think I am a neat one ; If I do glance , Or Sing , or Dance , I am a most complete one . Though my breeding was not great , Yet I have learned the feat , for to delude a Sinner ; To fit upon his Lap , And catch him in a trap , for I am no young beginner . How happy he Is thought to be , that by his comely carriage , Hath god the Art , To win my heart , and treat with me of Marriage : When I seem to comply , He knows no reason why , but that he may believe me ; Thus I get Diamond Rings , And many pretty things , for none could e're deceive me . Thus with my wit , Great benefit , and Riches I have got ; Which I in store , Keep for the Poor , when I am dead and rotten : He shall be paid full well , That Rings my Passing-Bell , and digs my Grave a fathom , Then all that can be said , Here lies one Buried , that was a Ranting Madam . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Counterfeit Court Lady : OR , And Answer to , Your Humble Servants Madam . Discovering all her cunning Knacks and feats , How wittily she does bestow her Cheats : By which she does much admiration gain , And in a splendid Garb her self maintain . To the Tune of , Your Humble servant Madam . I A am a Lass That does surpass , the beauty's of the City ; And near the Court , Where Blades resort , i'm counted wondrous witty : I have and oily Tongue , And very well it's hung , if that you will believe me ; Your flattering disease , My humour cannot please , for there's none that can deceive me No vapouring Cheat , Shall do the Feat , with such a Girl as I am ; I'le fit and smile , And him beguile , and all his Oaths defy 'um : He that will cog and lie , Gains not my company , when once his plot I faddam ; For I scorn that any man , Should ever me trappan , with your humble servant Madam . The Second Part , To the same Tune . AT my first Rise , I was so wise , to gain a great men favour ; And by my art , I wone his heart , all by my brisk behaviour : Where I had Gold at will , My mind for to fulfil , he willing was to grant it ; But though that he is gone , And I am left alone , I never fear to want it . My Rich attire , Made all admire , and by what means I gain'd it ; I have a Knack , To drink good Sack , and bravely to maintain i With my Pearl about my neck , And my Gallants at a beck , I us'd to drein their Purses ; Before they will not grant , Whatever I do want , they'l fell both Coach and Horses . To train up Youth , I speak the truth , upon my Reputation ; I do excel , And do it well , as any in the Nation : If I may gain their gold , I'le make them free and bold , there's none that shall outvie them , For all the art of Love , You shall of them approve , when e're you please to try them . Young Ladies they Observe my way , they think I am a neat one ; If I do glance , Or Sing , or Dance , I am a most complete one . Though my breeding was not great , Yet I have learned the feat , for to delude a Sinner ; To fit upon his Lap , And catch him in a trap , for I am no young beginner . How happy he Is thought to be , that by his comely carriage , Hath god the Art , To win my heart , and treat with me of Marriage : When I seem to comply , He knows no reason why , but that he may believe me ; Thus I get Diamond Rings , And many pretty things , for none could e're deceive me . Thus with my wit , Great benefit , and Riches I have got ; Which I in store , Keep for the Poor , when I am dead and rotten : He shall be paid full well , That Rings my Passing-Bell , and digs my Grave a fathom , Then all that can be said , Here lies one Buried , that was a Ranting Madam . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 