A Merry Dialogue between Thomas and John. In the praise , and dispraise of Women , and Wine . Thomas against the Women does contend , But John most stoutly does their cause defend , Young and Old , read these lines that ensue , You'l all confess that which I write is true , I know no reason , but that without dispute , This may as well be printed , as sung to Lute . To a gallant delightful new Tune , well known among Musicianers , and in Play-houses . Called , Women and Wine . Thomas . SOme Women are like to the Wine ; like the Sea ; and like the Rocks ; But they that proves them , soon may find 'em like the Wine and Weather-Cocks : But if you'l believe me i'le tell you true , What light Women are like unto , Wine , Wine , Women and wine , thus may you compare them too . John. Women most constant Men do find ; not like the Sea , but like the Rocks , They are evermore loving and kind , not like the Wine and Weather-Cocks , But if , etc Thomas . Women have hooks , & Women have crooks ; so hath the Wine , so hath the Wine , Which draws great Lawyers from their books , so will the Wine , so will the Wine . But if , etc John. Women have beauty and fair looks , so hath the Wine ; so hath the Wine ; Far surpassing the Lawyers books , more then the Wine , more then the Wine . But if you'l believe me , i'le tell you true , What good Women are like unto , Wine , Wine , Women and Wine , thus may you compare them too . Thomes . WOmen are witches when they may , so is the Wine , so is the Wine , Which causeth men from their wives to stray so will the Wine , so will the Wine . But if you'l believe me i'le tell you true , What light Women are like unto ; Wine , Wine , Women and Wine , thus may you compare them too . John. Women are witty when they may , so is not Wine , so is not Wine ; And causeth Men at home to stay , so does not Wine , so does not Wine . But if , etc Thomas . Women have arms for to embrace , so hath the Wine , so hath the Wine , Which brings brave Gallants to disgrace , so does the Wine , so does the Wine . But if , etc John. Women most sweetly do embrace , more then the Wine , more then the Wine , And save their Husbands from disgrace , so does not Wine , so does not Wine . But if , etc Thomas . Women's tongues are like sharp swords , so is the Wine , so is the Wine , Which urges men to swear damn'd Oaths , so does the Wine , so does the Wine , But if , etc John. Women's tongues do speak sweet words , so does not Wine , so does not Wine , They can persuade from damned Oaths , so will not Wine , so will not Wine . But if , etc Thomas . Women they do use to change , so does the Wine , so does the Wine , And oftentimes abroad do range , when Sun does shine , when Sun does shine , But if , etc John. Good Women they will never change , so will the Wine , so will the Wine , For profit they abroad will range , Hail , Rain , or Shine , Hail , Rain , or Shine But if , etc Thomas . Women they will fight and brawl , fill'd with Wine , fill'd with Wine , Their Husbands they will Cuckolds call , inflam'd with Wine , inflamed with Wine But if , etc John. Good women they will comfort all , like the best Wine , like the best Wine , What ever sorrow does befall , so will good Wine , so will good Wine . But if you'l believe me , i'le tell you true , What good Women are like unto , Wine , Wine , Women and Wine , thus you may compare them too . Printed for J. W [ i ] lliamson , at the Sun and Bible , in Cannonstreet , near London-stone . A Merry Dialogue between Thomas and John. In the praise , and dispraise of Women , and Wine . Thomas against the Women does contend , But John most stoutly does their cause defend , Young and Old , read these lines that ensue , You'l all confess that which I write is true , I know no reason , but that without dispute , This may as well be printed , as sung to Lute . To a gallant delightful new Tune , well known among Musicianers , and in Play-houses . Called , Women and Wine . Thomas . SOme Women are like to the Wine ; like the Sea ; and like the Rocks ; But they that proves them , soon may find 'em like the Wine and Weather-Cocks : But if you'l believe me i'le tell you true , What light Women are like unto , Wine , Wine , Women and wine , thus may you compare them too . John. Women most constant Men do find ; not like the Sea , but like the Rocks , They are evermore loving and kind , not like the Wine and Weather-Cocks , But if , etc Thomas . Women have hooks , & Women have crooks ; so hath the Wine , so hath the Wine , Which draws great Lawyers from their books , so will the Wine , so will the Wine . But if , etc John. Women have beauty and fair looks , so hath the Wine ; so hath the Wine ; Far surpassing the Lawyers books , more then the Wine , more then the Wine . But if you'l believe me , i'le tell you true , What good Women are like unto , Wine , Wine , Women and Wine , thus may you compare them too . Thomes . WOmen are witches when they may , so is the Wine , so is the Wine , Which causeth men from their wives to stray so will the Wine , so will the Wine . But if you'l believe me i'le tell you true , What light Women are like unto ; Wine , Wine , Women and Wine , thus may you compare them too . John. Women are witty when they may , so is not Wine , so is not Wine ; And causeth Men at home to stay , so does not Wine , so does not Wine . But if , etc Thomas . Women have arms for to embrace , so hath the Wine , so hath the Wine , Which brings brave Gallants to disgrace , so does the Wine , so does the Wine . But if , etc John. Women most sweetly do embrace , more then the Wine , more then the Wine , And save their Husbands from disgrace , so does not Wine , so does not Wine . But if , etc Thomas . Women's tongues are like sharp swords , so is the Wine , so is the Wine , Which urges men to swear damn'd Oaths , so does the Wine , so does the Wine , But if , etc John. Women's tongues do speak sweet words , so does not Wine , so does not Wine , They can persuade from damned Oaths , so will not Wine , so will not Wine . But if , etc Thomas . Women they do use to change , so does the Wine , so does the Wine , And oftentimes abroad do range , when Sun does shine , when Sun does shine , But if , etc John. Good Women they will never change , so will the Wine , so will the Wine , For profit they abroad will range , Hail , Rain , or Shine , Hail , Rain , or Shine But if , etc Thomas . Women they will fight and brawl , fill'd with Wine , fill'd with Wine , Their Husbands they will Cuckolds call , inflam'd with Wine , inflamed with Wine But if , etc John. Good women they will comfort all , like the best Wine , like the best Wine , What ever sorrow does befall , so will good Wine , so will good Wine . But if you'l believe me , i'le tell you true , What good Women are like unto , Wine , Wine , Women and Wine , thus you may compare them too . Printed for J. W [ i ] lliamson , at the Sun and Bible , in Cannonstreet , near London-stone . 