The Dyers Destin [ y ; ] OR , The Loving Wife's Help in time of Need. Two Trades is better far than one , sweet Husband , then , said she ; Then if thou wilt let me alone , I'll be a help to thee . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still flowing , etc This may be Printed , R. [ P. ] A Dyers Wife she was a dainty curious Doe , But with her Friend she a Gadding would go , Alas he could not keep his handsome wife at home , For with her Gallant abroad she would rome , And when she came to her Husband each night , Then like two Tigers together they'd fight , And at each blow she would often reply , Thou art a Cuckold and so thou shalt die . You know full well I take the greatest care of all , Or else your substance would soon be but small , For why should I depend upon your Trade alone , Is not two Callings far better than one ; Therefore i'de have thee be contented still , For I protest I will have my own will , 'Tis but a folly the same to deny , Thou art a Cuckold and so thou shallt die . Huswife , said he , and have you now the wanton pl [ aid , ] So that your Husband is a Cuckold made , What fl [ e ] sh and blood is able for to bear with this ? You shall , quoth she , though you take it amiss : For I declare it is nothing but true . Which I have oftentimes hinted to you , Nay I do hate to be found in a lie : thou art a Cuckold and so thou shalt die . A Shoemaker I own to be my chiefest friend , There does the most of my hope's still depend , Against we meet he is a Man that does provide , Not only Money , but something beside : Therefore you have no great cause to complain , Because to you I still bring home the gain , As for your Anger , I still do worser [ e ] fie , Being a Cuckold and so thou shalt die . The Dyer then , alas was in a cruel rage , That nothing scarce could his Anger assuage , Do not I bring to you my Wages e'ry week , What need have you any Gallants to seek ; At this his Wife she was str [ e ] ight in a huff , Saying your Wages is not half enough , Therefore be patient , said she , do not cry , For thou'rt a Cuckold and so thou shalt die . It is well known our Clothes were all at pawn of l [ ate , ] And we reduc'd to a very mean state , But now you see we make a very handsome shift , Thus I was forc [ ' ] worser to help at a dead lift ; I brought home Coin by my industry , The which I gave you all pawns to set free , The truth of this sure you cannot deny , As you are a Cuckold , and so you shall die . prey now did you e're flourish so in all your Life , As now you do by the help of your Wife , Therefore my Crime you may very well here excuse [ , ] Tell me I pray , do you ever want Shoes ? Yet know you not the price of those you wear , I get them by my industrious care , The truth of this sure you cannot deny , As you are a Cuckold and so you shall die . A Country-Man of mine you sent me with one day , Who in Apparel was gallant and gay , To me he gave a Golden Guinea and no less , But yet for what I will leave you to guess : But for your comfort take this by the way , You shall dig Gravel the next Horn-Fair day , Basket and Pit-Axe I reckon to buy , For you are a Cuckold , and so you shall die , Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on Londo [ n ] Bridge . The Dyers Destin [ y ; ] OR , The Loving Wife's Help in time of Need. Two Trades is better far than one , sweet Husband , then , said she ; Then if thou wilt let me alone , I'll be a help to thee . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still flowing , etc This may be Printed , R. [ P. ] A Dyers Wife she was a dainty curious Doe , But with her Friend she a Gadding would go , Alas he could not keep his handsome wife at home , For with her Gallant abroad she would rome , And when she came to her Husband each night , Then like two Tigers together they'd fight , And at each blow she would often reply , Thou art a Cuckold and so thou shalt die . You know full well I take the greatest care of all , Or else your substance would soon be but small , For why should I depend upon your Trade alone , Is not two Callings far better than one ; Therefore i'de have thee be contented still , For I protest I will have my own will , 'Tis but a folly the same to deny , Thou art a Cuckold and so thou shallt die . Huswife , said he , and have you now the wanton pl [ aid , ] So that your Husband is a Cuckold made , What fl [ e ] sh and blood is able for to bear with this ? You shall , quoth she , though you take it amiss : For I declare it is nothing but true . Which I have oftentimes hinted to you , Nay I do hate to be found in a lie : thou art a Cuckold and so thou shalt die . A Shoemaker I own to be my chiefest friend , There does the most of my hope's still depend , Against we meet he is a Man that does provide , Not only Money , but something beside : Therefore you have no great cause to complain , Because to you I still bring home the gain , As for your Anger , I still do worser [ e ] fie , Being a Cuckold and so thou shalt die . The Dyer then , alas was in a cruel rage , That nothing scarce could his Anger assuage , Do not I bring to you my Wages e'ry week , What need have you any Gallants to seek ; At this his Wife she was str [ e ] ight in a huff , Saying your Wages is not half enough , Therefore be patient , said she , do not cry , For thou'rt a Cuckold and so thou shalt die . It is well known our Clothes were all at pawn of l [ ate , ] And we reduc'd to a very mean state , But now you see we make a very handsome shift , Thus I was forc [ ' ] worser to help at a dead lift ; I brought home Coin by my industry , The which I gave you all pawns to set free , The truth of this sure you cannot deny , As you are a Cuckold , and so you shall die . prey now did you e're flourish so in all your Life , As now you do by the help of your Wife , Therefore my Crime you may very well here excuse [ , ] Tell me I pray , do you ever want Shoes ? Yet know you not the price of those you wear , I get them by my industrious care , The truth of this sure you cannot deny , As you are a Cuckold and so you shall die . A Country-Man of mine you sent me with one day , Who in Apparel was gallant and gay , To me he gave a Golden Guinea and no less , But yet for what I will leave you to guess : But for your comfort take this by the way , You shall dig Gravel the next Horn-Fair day , Basket and Pit-Axe I reckon to buy , For you are a Cuckold , and so you shall die , Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on Londo [ n ] Bridge . 