The Discontented Lover , To a pleasant new Court Tune . TOul , toul , gentle bell for a soul , Killing care does control ; And my mind is soar oppressed , But I fear I shall die , For glancing of that eye , Which so lately did fly , Like a Comet from the Sky : Or like some great Deity : But my wishes are in vain , I shall never see't again . When I , in the Temple did spy , This divine purity , On her knees to her Saint , She seem'd so divine , All the graces did shine , Far more fairer then the shrine : Faith I wish she had been mine , And my heart full resign , May powerfully prove , No Religion like Love . Fair , fair , and as chaste as the Air , Holy Nuns breath in prayer : Was this Votress divine , From each eye dropped a tear , Like the pearled Violets were , When the Spring does appear , To usher in the year , But I dare safely swear , That those tears trickle down , For no sins of her own . But now increases my woe , I by no means can know , Where this beauty does dwell : All her rites being done , To her Lady and her Son , I was left all alone , And my Saint was from me gone , And to Heaven she is flown : Which makes me to say , I can scarce live a day . NOw I , must make haste and die , And ascend to the sky , Where my hope's are inthron'd : You Ladies all adieu , Be your loves false or true , I am going for to view , One that far excels all you , One whom I never knew , But must breath out my breath , For acquaintance in death . Ring , ring , merry bells' while we sing , Drinking Healths to our Ring , And our minds all advanc'd ; Let us never fear to die , Till we drink out each eye , Let cash and cans fly , Like Hailstones in the sky , Bacchus great Deity : But my wishes are in vain , Fill the Cans round again . When I , in the Tavern did spy , Such fair boon Company , On our knees drinking healths , We look so divine , When our noses do shine , Well burnished with rich wine , Faith I wish the cup were mine : [ U ] unto thee I resign , [ A ] and may powerfully prove , In drinking thy love . Free , free , as the air let us be , Esteeming no degree , But to all breath alike : From one eye drop a tear , Lest you Maudlin appear , And next morning to fear , To be Physicked with small Beer , But I dare safely swear : If a tear trickle down , 'Tis for love to the Crown . And now , increases my woe , I by all means must know , What is due for our Sack ; But the reckoning being paid , To the Hostess or Maid , We need not to be afraid , To be scurvily betrayed To the Constables aid : Let us Honestly pay , Else we scarce get away . Now must I make haste and see , What will us all free , All our hands from the Bar , You Ladies all and [ ie ] u , Be your reckonin [ g ] [ fa ] lse or true , I am going for to [ vie ] w , What belongeth to all you , Though we pay more then our endue , Yet my Purse will I spend , And my life for my friend . Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Safforn-hill , near Hatton-garden . The Discontented Lover , To a pleasant new Court Tune . TOul , toul , gentle bell for a soul , Killing care does control ; And my mind is soar oppressed , But I fear I shall die , For glancing of that eye , Which so lately did fly , Like a Comet from the Sky : Or like some great Deity : But my wishes are in vain , I shall never see't again . When I , in the Temple did spy , This divine purity , On her knees to her Saint , She seem'd so divine , All the graces did shine , Far more fairer then the shrine : Faith I wish she had been mine , And my heart full resign , May powerfully prove , No Religion like Love . Fair , fair , and as chaste as the Air , Holy Nuns breath in prayer : Was this Votress divine , From each eye dropped a tear , Like the pearled Violets were , When the Spring does appear , To usher in the year , But I dare safely swear , That those tears trickle down , For no sins of her own . But now increases my woe , I by no means can know , Where this beauty does dwell : All her rites being done , To her Lady and her Son , I was left all alone , And my Saint was from me gone , And to Heaven she is flown : Which makes me to say , I can scarce live a day . NOw I , must make haste and die , And ascend to the sky , Where my hope's are inthron'd : You Ladies all adieu , Be your loves false or true , I am going for to view , One that far excels all you , One whom I never knew , But must breath out my breath , For acquaintance in death . Ring , ring , merry bells' while we sing , Drinking Healths to our Ring , And our minds all advanc'd ; Let us never fear to die , Till we drink out each eye , Let cash and cans fly , Like Hailstones in the sky , Bacchus great Deity : But my wishes are in vain , Fill the Cans round again . When I , in the Tavern did spy , Such fair boon Company , On our knees drinking healths , We look so divine , When our noses do shine , Well burnished with rich wine , Faith I wish the cup were mine : [ U ] unto thee I resign , [ A ] and may powerfully prove , In drinking thy love . Free , free , as the air let us be , Esteeming no degree , But to all breath alike : From one eye drop a tear , Lest you Maudlin appear , And next morning to fear , To be Physicked with small Beer , But I dare safely swear : If a tear trickle down , 'Tis for love to the Crown . And now , increases my woe , I by all means must know , What is due for our Sack ; But the reckoning being paid , To the Hostess or Maid , We need not to be afraid , To be scurvily betrayed To the Constables aid : Let us Honestly pay , Else we scarce get away . Now must I make haste and see , What will us all free , All our hands from the Bar , You Ladies all and [ ie ] u , Be your reckonin [ g ] [ fa ] lse or true , I am going for to [ vie ] w , What belongeth to all you , Though we pay more then our endue , Yet my Purse will I spend , And my life for my friend . Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , on Safforn-hill , near Hatton-garden . 