The Famous FIGHT at MALAGO : OR , THE Englishmens Victory over the Spaniards : Relating how Five English Frigates , viz. The Henry , Ruby , Antelope , Grey - hound , and Bryan , burned all the Spanish Ships in their Harbour at Malago ; battered down their Churches , and their Houses about their ears , kill'd abundan [ c ] e of their Men , and obtained and Honourable Victory . Where ever English Seamen goes , They are a Terror to their Foes . To the Tune of , Five Sail of Frigates bound for Malago , etc COme all you brave Sailors that sails on the Main , I'll tell you of a Fight that was lately in Spain , And of five Sail of Frigates bound to Malago , For to fight the Proud Spaniards , our Order was so : There was the Henry and Ruby , and the Antelope also , The Greyhound , and the Bryan , for Fireships must go , But so bravely we weighed , and played our parts , That we made the Proud Spaniards to quake in their hearts . Then we came to and anchor so nigh to the Mould , Methinks you Proud English do grow very bold : But we came to and anchor so near to the Town , That some o [ f ] their Churches we soon battered down . They hung out their Flag of Truce , for to know our Intent , And they sent out their Longboat , to know what we mean But our Captain he answered them bravely , it was so , For to burn all your Shipping , before we do go . For to burn all our Shipping , you must us excuse , 'Tis not five Sail of Frigates shall make us to muse . But we burned all their Shipping , and their Galleys also , And we left in the City full many a Widow . Come then , says our Captain , let's fire at the Church ; And down came their Belfrey , which grieved them much ; And down came the Steeple , which stands so high ; Which made the Proud Spaniards to the Nunnery fly . So great a Confusion we made in the Town , That their lofty Buildings came tumbling down : Their Wives and their Children for help they did cry , But none could relieve them , though danger was nigh . The flames and the smoke , so increased their woe , That they knew not whither to run nor to go ; Some to shun the Fire , leapt into the Flood , And there they did perish in Water and Mud. Our Guns we kept firing , still shooting amain , While many a Proud Spaniard was on the place slave : The rest being amazed , for succour did cry , But all was in vain , they had no where to fly . At length being forced , they thought it most fit , Unto the brave English Men for to submi And so a conclusion at last we did make , Upon such Conditions as was fit to take . The Spanish Armado , did England no harm , 'Twas but a Bravado to give us alarm ; But with our five Frigates we did them bombast , And made them of English Men's Valour to taste . When this noble Victory we did obtain , Then home we returned to England again ; Where we were received , with Welcomes of Joy , Because with five Frigates we did them destroy . London : Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and sold by C. Bats , in Pie-corner . The Famous FIGHT at MALAGO : OR , THE Englishmens Victory over the Spaniards : Relating how Five English Frigates , viz. The Henry , Ruby , Antelope , Grey - hound , and Bryan , burned all the Spanish Ships in their Harbour at Malago ; battered down their Churches , and their Houses about their ears , kill'd abundan [ c ] e of their Men , and obtained and Honourable Victory . Where ever English Seamen goes , They are a Terror to their Foes . To the Tune of , Five Sail of Frigates bound for Malago , etc COme all you brave Sailors that sails on the Main , I'll tell you of a Fight that was lately in Spain , And of five Sail of Frigates bound to Malago , For to fight the Proud Spaniards , our Order was so : There was the Henry and Ruby , and the Antelope also , The Greyhound , and the Bryan , for Fireships must go , But so bravely we weighed , and played our parts , That we made the Proud Spaniards to quake in their hearts . Then we came to and anchor so nigh to the Mould , Methinks you Proud English do grow very bold : But we came to and anchor so near to the Town , That some o [ f ] their Churches we soon battered down . They hung out their Flag of Truce , for to know our Intent , And they sent out their Longboat , to know what we mean But our Captain he answered them bravely , it was so , For to burn all your Shipping , before we do go . For to burn all our Shipping , you must us excuse , 'Tis not five Sail of Frigates shall make us to muse . But we burned all their Shipping , and their Galleys also , And we left in the City full many a Widow . Come then , says our Captain , let's fire at the Church ; And down came their Belfrey , which grieved them much ; And down came the Steeple , which stands so high ; Which made the Proud Spaniards to the Nunnery fly . So great a Confusion we made in the Town , That their lofty Buildings came tumbling down : Their Wives and their Children for help they did cry , But none could relieve them , though danger was nigh . The flames and the smoke , so increased their woe , That they knew not whither to run nor to go ; Some to shun the Fire , leapt into the Flood , And there they did perish in Water and Mud. Our Guns we kept firing , still shooting amain , While many a Proud Spaniard was on the place slave : The rest being amazed , for succour did cry , But all was in vain , they had no where to fly . At length being forced , they thought it most fit , Unto the brave English Men for to submi And so a conclusion at last we did make , Upon such Conditions as was fit to take . The Spanish Armado , did England no harm , 'Twas but a Bravado to give us alarm ; But with our five Frigates we did them bombast , And made them of English Men's Valour to taste . When this noble Victory we did obtain , Then home we returned to England again ; Where we were received , with Welcomes of Joy , Because with five Frigates we did them destroy . London : Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and sold by C. Bats , in Pie-corner . 