The Faithful FARMER , OR , The Downright Wooing betwixt ROBIN and NANCY . When he had told her of his store , she could not him deny ; Alas , what could she wish for more , then Goods and Loyalty . To the Tune of , Oh Mother , Roger , etc This may be Printed , R.P. MY little , pretty youthful Nancy , prithee fit down by my side , There is none but thee I fancy , for to make my Lawful Bride : I will make it well appear , There's no Farmer far or near , Has such dainty curious Geer , As I have for thee my Dear : Then prithee Nancy be not Coy , Thou alone shalt be my joy . Give me thy Love , or else and Answer , thou art she whom I adore . Did not you know my good old Grandsir , he has left me all his store : Love , I do protest and vow , I have god a Cart and Blow , Seven Pigs , beside a Sow , Dearest , can you love me now ? Then prithee make no more ado . If thou canst love me tell me true . I have not told you half my treasure , love , my portion is not small , I have riches out of measure , thou shalt be the Dame of all : There's a Coffer cram'd with Gold , Beside Silver still untold , Also Sheep and Lambs in fold , Most delightful to behold ; If thou to love art now inclined , I prithee let me know thy mind . He loved me his darling Robin , making me his only heir , Likewise left me Roan and Dobbin , with his little bobtail Mare , When my Grandsir dy'd in peace , Here he left me ten years lease , With a flock of Ducks and Geese , Which does daily still increase , And therefore now before you go , If thou canst love me tell me so . Beside , this is not all my Riches , there's his good old Coat of Buff , Mounteer Cap , and Buff-skin Breeches beside all his Householdstuff : Pot and Pans , with Piggans too , All I have i'le give to you , Let us make no more ado , For I han't much time to woo : And therefore now before I go , If thou canst love me tell me so . But Robin , wherefore should you settle , love upon so mean a Bride ? Here you talk of Corn and Cattle , and of twenty things beside : Therefore when your friends shall know That you do your self bestow , On a fortune mean and low , They will seek my overthrow , I'de rather be a poor men wife , Then live a discontented life . Sweet love , my Father and my Mother , they to this will now agree , For they say above all other , thou wilt make a Wife for me : Therefore dearest be not coy , Let me now thy love enjoy , Is I am and honest Boy , There is none shall thee annoy , I'le tender thee both day and night , And thou shalt have thy hearts delight . I prithee Nancy don't deny me , why are you so mild and mute , If you are resolv'd to try me , let us make no more dispute ; Love though I have this Estate , As I freely do relate , If thou wilt but be my Mate , I'le forsake both Jone and Kate ; though they have House & Land withal , Yet thou art more to me then all . The Damsel then that very hour , her dear Robin did adore , For she then had not the power , to deny him any more : Then his Nancy he did led To his Father's house with speed , Then their Parents all agreed , That they should in Love proceed : Now they no more disputing stand , Resolve to Marry out of hand . FINIS . Printed for J Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The Faithful FARMER , OR , The Downright Wooing betwixt ROBIN and NANCY . When he had told her of his store , she could not him deny ; Alas , what could she wish for more , then Goods and Loyalty . To the Tune of , Oh Mother , Roger , etc This may be Printed , R.P. MY little , pretty youthful Nancy , prithee fit down by my side , There is none but thee I fancy , for to make my Lawful Bride : I will make it well appear , There's no Farmer far or near , Has such dainty curious Geer , As I have for thee my Dear : Then prithee Nancy be not Coy , Thou alone shalt be my joy . Give me thy Love , or else and Answer , thou art she whom I adore . Did not you know my good old Grandsir , he has left me all his store : Love , I do protest and vow , I have god a Cart and Blow , Seven Pigs , beside a Sow , Dearest , can you love me now ? Then prithee make no more ado . If thou canst love me tell me true . I have not told you half my treasure , love , my portion is not small , I have riches out of measure , thou shalt be the Dame of all : There's a Coffer cram'd with Gold , Beside Silver still untold , Also Sheep and Lambs in fold , Most delightful to behold ; If thou to love art now inclined , I prithee let me know thy mind . He loved me his darling Robin , making me his only heir , Likewise left me Roan and Dobbin , with his little bobtail Mare , When my Grandsir dy'd in peace , Here he left me ten years lease , With a flock of Ducks and Geese , Which does daily still increase , And therefore now before you go , If thou canst love me tell me so . Beside , this is not all my Riches , there's his good old Coat of Buff , Mounteer Cap , and Buff-skin Breeches beside all his Householdstuff : Pot and Pans , with Piggans too , All I have i'le give to you , Let us make no more ado , For I han't much time to woo : And therefore now before I go , If thou canst love me tell me so . But Robin , wherefore should you settle , love upon so mean a Bride ? Here you talk of Corn and Cattle , and of twenty things beside : Therefore when your friends shall know That you do your self bestow , On a fortune mean and low , They will seek my overthrow , I'de rather be a poor men wife , Then live a discontented life . Sweet love , my Father and my Mother , they to this will now agree , For they say above all other , thou wilt make a Wife for me : Therefore dearest be not coy , Let me now thy love enjoy , Is I am and honest Boy , There is none shall thee annoy , I'le tender thee both day and night , And thou shalt have thy hearts delight . I prithee Nancy don't deny me , why are you so mild and mute , If you are resolv'd to try me , let us make no more dispute ; Love though I have this Estate , As I freely do relate , If thou wilt but be my Mate , I'le forsake both Jone and Kate ; though they have House & Land withal , Yet thou art more to me then all . The Damsel then that very hour , her dear Robin did adore , For she then had not the power , to deny him any more : Then his Nancy he did led To his Father's house with speed , Then their Parents all agreed , That they should in Love proceed : Now they no more disputing stand , Resolve to Marry out of hand . FINIS . Printed for J Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 