A Godly Guide of Directions for true penitent Sinners in these troubled times . That we call to God to be our friend , To think upon our latter end , men Life is short and at no stay we almost have a dying day , That God may guide us along , To bring us to our heavenly home , Where our Souls may live and ever rest With heavenly Angels that are blessed . Tune is , Aim not too high by Robert Tipping : GOod people all , I pray you understand These Verses now which I do take in hand And take good notice I pray you to the end It will put you in mind that God will be you friend Theres little Love in this World to be seen Our Hearts does swell with malice evermore It is a great wonder for our our grievous since God does not strike us with some grievous soar . There was never so much swearing in this Land , And taking of gods sacred name in vain It hurts our peace and does destroy our Land. And soar offends our gracious God of Heaven , It is a grievous thing if people would but mind To think how sinful in this land we be God give us grace that we may mend in time And beg for pardon on our our bent knee What innocent blood by Villains has been shed [ A grievious thing it was then to behold . ] In use to bring Gods Judgement on our head But still his mercies they are manifold . Good Lord that people would but live more civil And serve the Lord in a most loving way And forsake the since of Pride that is so evil That God may be our friend both night & day 'Tis not the pride of Clothes but the pride of Heart That hurts a man or Woman I do say , The Lord takes notice of the inner part Therefore good people we had need to pray . And let love and charity be more in use And serve the Lord & keep the Sabbath-day O then there would not be so much abuse But mend our lives I say then every way . The holy Bible shows us every ways It was for since the world before was drown'd , If we understand but what the Scripture says [ Surely our faith and prayers will more abound . ] Our Saviour bids us if we be released Come with penitent heart our souls shall make a show And come to him and he will give us rest If they were as read as scarlet hee'l make them as white as sno [ w . ] Theres many never thinks of serving God For many sudden death there is truly , But runs on in since till they be struckned dead , And as the tree does fallen so it will lie . You see what warning-pieces God hath sent By fire and sword , and sickness for our sins , To turn our hearts that we may all repent Yet to mend we're loath for to begin . Let's leave our sins & pray for spiritual Grace To trim our lamps , to fill them up with Oil Our dying day is coming on a pace Then God will give A blessing to our Souls . Gods mercy it is great we may be sure If we with penitent hearts can but repent If we with patience can our Cross endure In Health or Sickness truly be content . And lets be careful how our time we spend And love our Neighbour and relieve the poor Whatever we do that God may be our Friend , Gods mercies they will bless us and our Store , Now all good people I say no more but this Lets live in love while this Life does endure , Let every one mend what is amiss Gods love is to those people to be sure . Our time is short we have not long to stay But yet lets strongly stand upon our guard , God give us grace to mind our latter day That our souls in Heaven may have a good reward . Concluding of these verses now in print God bless us all & ever to our death That all may understand what here is int When he is pleas'd that we shall lose our Breath . The oldest man that ever liv'd oath earth Had but his time he at the last did die , We must stoop to death & leave this life at last Let us work for Heaven , and Heavenly Eternity . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Pye-Corner . A Godly Guide of Directions for true penitent Sinners in these troubled times . That we call to God to be our friend , To think upon our latter end , men Life is short and at no stay we almost have a dying day , That God may guide us along , To bring us to our heavenly home , Where our Souls may live and ever rest With heavenly Angels that are blessed . Tune is , Aim not too high by Robert Tipping : GOod people all , I pray you understand These Verses now which I do take in hand And take good notice I pray you to the end It will put you in mind that God will be you friend Theres little Love in this World to be seen Our Hearts does swell with malice evermore It is a great wonder for our our grievous since God does not strike us with some grievous soar . There was never so much swearing in this Land , And taking of gods sacred name in vain It hurts our peace and does destroy our Land. And soar offends our gracious God of Heaven , It is a grievous thing if people would but mind To think how sinful in this land we be God give us grace that we may mend in time And beg for pardon on our our bent knee What innocent blood by Villains has been shed [ A grievious thing it was then to behold . ] In use to bring Gods Judgement on our head But still his mercies they are manifold . Good Lord that people would but live more civil And serve the Lord in a most loving way And forsake the since of Pride that is so evil That God may be our friend both night & day 'Tis not the pride of Clothes but the pride of Heart That hurts a man or Woman I do say , The Lord takes notice of the inner part Therefore good people we had need to pray . And let love and charity be more in use And serve the Lord & keep the Sabbath-day O then there would not be so much abuse But mend our lives I say then every way . The holy Bible shows us every ways It was for since the world before was drown'd , If we understand but what the Scripture says [ Surely our faith and prayers will more abound . ] Our Saviour bids us if we be released Come with penitent heart our souls shall make a show And come to him and he will give us rest If they were as read as scarlet hee'l make them as white as sno [ w . ] Theres many never thinks of serving God For many sudden death there is truly , But runs on in since till they be struckned dead , And as the tree does fallen so it will lie . You see what warning-pieces God hath sent By fire and sword , and sickness for our sins , To turn our hearts that we may all repent Yet to mend we're loath for to begin . Let's leave our sins & pray for spiritual Grace To trim our lamps , to fill them up with Oil Our dying day is coming on a pace Then God will give A blessing to our Souls . Gods mercy it is great we may be sure If we with penitent hearts can but repent If we with patience can our Cross endure In Health or Sickness truly be content . And lets be careful how our time we spend And love our Neighbour and relieve the poor Whatever we do that God may be our Friend , Gods mercies they will bless us and our Store , Now all good people I say no more but this Lets live in love while this Life does endure , Let every one mend what is amiss Gods love is to those people to be sure . Our time is short we have not long to stay But yet lets strongly stand upon our guard , God give us grace to mind our latter day That our souls in Heaven may have a good reward . Concluding of these verses now in print God bless us all & ever to our death That all may understand what here is int When he is pleas'd that we shall lose our Breath . The oldest man that ever liv'd oath earth Had but his time he at the last did die , We must stoop to death & leave this life at last Let us work for Heaven , and Heavenly Eternity . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Pye-Corner . 