Jennies Answer to Sawny . Wherein Loves Cruelty is requited , Or , The Inconstant Lover justly Despised . Being a Relation how Sawney being Disabled and and turn'd out of Doors by the Miss of London town , is likewise scorned and rejected by his Country Lass , and forced to wander where he may Jenny at at last in a most woeful case , Is forc'd to leave the Patch'd and Painted face ; For money there rules all , and when 'tis gone , The Cully is no longer writed on : Down to his Jenny he does high with speed , But she remembers his Ungrateful deed ; Nor will forgive though on his knees he fallen , So Mortify'd he is despis'd by all . To the Tune of , Sawney will ne'r be my Love again . WHen Sawny left me he had store of Gilded , but he hath spent it in London Town ; And now is return'd to his Sun-burn'd face , his own dear joy in a Russet Gown : He's come for another Sark and Band , and coakes's me for more of my Coin ; But I'se guid-faith , shall hold thy hand For Sawny shall never more be mine . Sawny rid home on a Running Nagg , and fain wou'd he have me gang to the shade , But never was Scot in such a case , with riding upon a London Jade , But now he repents o'th Painted face , and bans the Lewd Queans of London fine : He fain wou'd have let his Nag run a raze But Sawny shall never more be mine . He now would Angle in my Fishpond , to quench those flames that scorch him so ; And wou'd put it in with his own hand , but let him gang where the North-winds blow , I'se be content with my former dream , nor at his absence will I repine ; No more will I'se taste of his Curds and Cream , For Sawny never more shall be mine . But yet methought that I'se was sad , to see poor Sawny look so forlorn ; To think what glee I'se once from him had , and that I'm shou'd now his kindness scorn : Guide faith he look both pale and wan , repenting that he had been so unkind : And beg'd of me for a Sark and band , But Sawny shall never more be mine . HE told me he wou'd be now my Slave and never more see London Town But ganging with me shou'd think it brave , take more delight in my Russet Gown Then in that filthy Copper Lace , that covers Harlets void of Grace , Pox'd and Patch'd with and Impudent face ; But Sawny shall never more be mine . Guide faith I'se keep close my two-leav'd Book , I'se will not trust him to gang between ; Lest my Fishpond is spoiled with his Hooks , because he hath ligg'd with a London Quean : She having gull'd him of all his store , Bid him to gang and seek for more , And now he's return'd both maim'd and poor ; But Sawny shall never more be mine . Tho' he shew'd me the gay green tree , on which he oft had carv'd my name ; While Primroses I'se pluck'd hard by . and made him Nosegays of the same : Guide faith I'se smile to see him weep , Because his promise he did not keep , But with a Miss o'th Town did sleep ; Yet Sawny shall never more be mine . I'se bid him gang from whence he came , and to the London Mort declare , He had wrong'd me , and cou'd not for shame to me for House or Land repair He told me that she was muckle Fag , For when he had emptied his bag , She sent him home with a running Nagg , Yet Sawny shall never more be mine . And that he did entreat her still , but she was cruel and would not hear Swearing she would poor Sawny kill , if that he stayed any longer there : Thus any e'ne may plainly see , What he god by leaving of me , And what tO [ h ] e Queans of London be , Yet Sawny shall never more be mine . Thus may the Lasses see how I paid him for his base inconstancy Who for to ride on a London jade , cockt up his Bonnet and gang'd from me For which I shall requite him now , And no more of his kindness allow , But let him grng home to his Father's Blow For Sawny shall never more be mine . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near the Hospital-Gate in West Smithfied . Jennies Answer to Sawny . Wherein Loves Cruelty is requited , Or , The Inconstant Lover justly Despised . Being a Relation how Sawney being Disabled and and turn'd out of Doors by the Miss of London town , is likewise scorned and rejected by his Country Lass , and forced to wander where he may Jenny at at last in a most woeful case , Is forc'd to leave the Patch'd and Painted face ; For money there rules all , and when 'tis gone , The Cully is no longer writed on : Down to his Jenny he does high with speed , But she remembers his Ungrateful deed ; Nor will forgive though on his knees he fallen , So Mortify'd he is despis'd by all . To the Tune of , Sawney will ne'r be my Love again . WHen Sawny left me he had store of Gilded , but he hath spent it in London Town ; And now is return'd to his Sun-burn'd face , his own dear joy in a Russet Gown : He's come for another Sark and Band , and coakes's me for more of my Coin ; But I'se guid-faith , shall hold thy hand For Sawny shall never more be mine . Sawny rid home on a Running Nagg , and fain wou'd he have me gang to the shade , But never was Scot in such a case , with riding upon a London Jade , But now he repents o'th Painted face , and bans the Lewd Queans of London fine : He fain wou'd have let his Nag run a raze But Sawny shall never more be mine . He now would Angle in my Fishpond , to quench those flames that scorch him so ; And wou'd put it in with his own hand , but let him gang where the North-winds blow , I'se be content with my former dream , nor at his absence will I repine ; No more will I'se taste of his Curds and Cream , For Sawny never more shall be mine . But yet methought that I'se was sad , to see poor Sawny look so forlorn ; To think what glee I'se once from him had , and that I'm shou'd now his kindness scorn : Guide faith he look both pale and wan , repenting that he had been so unkind : And beg'd of me for a Sark and band , But Sawny shall never more be mine . HE told me he wou'd be now my Slave and never more see London Town But ganging with me shou'd think it brave , take more delight in my Russet Gown Then in that filthy Copper Lace , that covers Harlets void of Grace , Pox'd and Patch'd with and Impudent face ; But Sawny shall never more be mine . Guide faith I'se keep close my two-leav'd Book , I'se will not trust him to gang between ; Lest my Fishpond is spoiled with his Hooks , because he hath ligg'd with a London Quean : She having gull'd him of all his store , Bid him to gang and seek for more , And now he's return'd both maim'd and poor ; But Sawny shall never more be mine . Tho' he shew'd me the gay green tree , on which he oft had carv'd my name ; While Primroses I'se pluck'd hard by . and made him Nosegays of the same : Guide faith I'se smile to see him weep , Because his promise he did not keep , But with a Miss o'th Town did sleep ; Yet Sawny shall never more be mine . I'se bid him gang from whence he came , and to the London Mort declare , He had wrong'd me , and cou'd not for shame to me for House or Land repair He told me that she was muckle Fag , For when he had emptied his bag , She sent him home with a running Nagg , Yet Sawny shall never more be mine . And that he did entreat her still , but she was cruel and would not hear Swearing she would poor Sawny kill , if that he stayed any longer there : Thus any e'ne may plainly see , What he god by leaving of me , And what tO [ h ] e Queans of London be , Yet Sawny shall never more be mine . Thus may the Lasses see how I paid him for his base inconstancy Who for to ride on a London jade , cockt up his Bonnet and gang'd from me For which I shall requite him now , And no more of his kindness allow , But let him grng home to his Father's Blow For Sawny shall never more be mine . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near the Hospital-Gate in West Smithfied . 