And Invitation to Lubberland . WITH And Account of the great Plenty of that Fruitful Country . There is all sorts of Fowl and Fish , with Wine , and store of Brandy ; You have there what your Hearts can wish , the Hills are Sugar-Candy . The Tune of , Billy and Molly . Or , The Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be Printed , R.P. THere is a ship we understand , now riding in the river , 'Tis newly come from Lubberland , the like I think was never ; You that a lazy life do love , I'd have you now go over , They say the land is not above two thousand leagues from Dover . The captain and the master too , do's give us this relation , And so do's all the whole ship's crew , concerning this strange nation . The streets are pav'd with pudding-pies , nay , powder'd-beef and bacon , They say they scorn to tell you lies : Who thinks it is mistaken ? The king of knaves , and queen of sluts reign there in peace and quiet ; You need not fear to starve your guts , there is such store of die There may you live free from all care , like hogs set up a fattening , The garments which the people wear , is silver , silk , and satin . The lofty buildings of this place , for many years have lasted , With nutmegs , pepper , cloves , and mace , the walls are there rough cast , In curious hasty-pudding boil'd , and most injenious carving ; Likewise they are with pancakes ty'd , sure , here's no fear of starving . The captain says , In every town , hight roasted pigs will meet you , They in the streets run up and down , still crying out , Come eat me : Likewise he says , at e'ery feast , the very fowls and fish , Nay , from the biggest to the least , comes tumbling to the dishes . The rivers run with claret fine , the brooks with rich canary , The ponds with other sorts of wine , to make your hearts full merry : Nay , more than this , you may behold , the fountains flows with brandy , The rocks are like refined gold , the hills are sugarcandy . Rosewater is the rain they have , which comes in pleasant showers ; All places are adorned brave , with sweet and fragrant flowers . Hight custards grows on e'ery tree , each ditch affords rich jellies ; Now if you will be rul'd by me , go there and fill your bellies . There's nothing there but holy-days ; with music out of measure ; Who can forbear to speak the praise , of such a land of pleasure ? There may you led a lazy life , free from all kind of labour : And he that is without a wife , may borrow of his neighbour . There is no law nor lawyers fees . all men are free from fury , For e'ery one do's what he please , without a judge or jury : The summertime is warm they say , the winter's ne'er the colder , They have no landlords rend to pay , each man is a freeholder . You that are free to cross the seas , make no more disputation , In Lubberland you'll live at ease , with pleasant recreation : The captain waits but for a gale of prosperous wind and weather , And then they soon will hoist up sail , make hast away together . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . And Invitation to Lubberland . WITH And Account of the great Plenty of that Fruitful Country . There is all sorts of Fowl and Fish , with Wine , and store of Brandy ; You have there what your Hearts can wish , the Hills are Sugar-Candy . The Tune of , Billy and Molly . Or , The Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be Printed , R.P. THere is a ship we understand , now riding in the river , 'Tis newly come from Lubberland , the like I think was never ; You that a lazy life do love , I'd have you now go over , They say the land is not above two thousand leagues from Dover . The captain and the master too , do's give us this relation , And so do's all the whole ship's crew , concerning this strange nation . The streets are pav'd with pudding-pies , nay , powder'd-beef and bacon , They say they scorn to tell you lies : Who thinks it is mistaken ? The king of knaves , and queen of sluts reign there in peace and quiet ; You need not fear to starve your guts , there is such store of die There may you live free from all care , like hogs set up a fattening , The garments which the people wear , is silver , silk , and satin . The lofty buildings of this place , for many years have lasted , With nutmegs , pepper , cloves , and mace , the walls are there rough cast , In curious hasty-pudding boil'd , and most injenious carving ; Likewise they are with pancakes ty'd , sure , here's no fear of starving . The captain says , In every town , hight roasted pigs will meet you , They in the streets run up and down , still crying out , Come eat me : Likewise he says , at e'ery feast , the very fowls and fish , Nay , from the biggest to the least , comes tumbling to the dishes . The rivers run with claret fine , the brooks with rich canary , The ponds with other sorts of wine , to make your hearts full merry : Nay , more than this , you may behold , the fountains flows with brandy , The rocks are like refined gold , the hills are sugarcandy . Rosewater is the rain they have , which comes in pleasant showers ; All places are adorned brave , with sweet and fragrant flowers . Hight custards grows on e'ery tree , each ditch affords rich jellies ; Now if you will be rul'd by me , go there and fill your bellies . There's nothing there but holy-days ; with music out of measure ; Who can forbear to speak the praise , of such a land of pleasure ? There may you led a lazy life , free from all kind of labour : And he that is without a wife , may borrow of his neighbour . There is no law nor lawyers fees . all men are free from fury , For e'ery one do's what he please , without a judge or jury : The summertime is warm they say , the winter's ne'er the colder , They have no landlords rend to pay , each man is a freeholder . You that are free to cross the seas , make no more disputation , In Lubberland you'll live at ease , with pleasant recreation : The captain waits but for a gale of prosperous wind and weather , And then they soon will hoist up sail , make hast away together . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . 