The Huntsman's Delight , Or , the Foresters Pleasure . The Dear are wounded , but they are not slave , Yet so they're [ ho ] undead , that they are or'etain ; And in their taking pity it is shown : for why 'twas thought that some there was with fawn . The Keepers swore great Oaths , upon their lives , they'd be as kind to them , as men are to their wives , the pleasant sport this Ditty does declare , Of the Huntsmen , and the fallow Dear . Tune of , among the leaves so green a. By J.M. COme all you young Maidens & lend and ear Come listen a while and you shall hear How the keepers did sport with the fallow Deer among the leaves so green a. Heigh down derry derry down , Heigh down down , ho down down , Heigh down , ho down , derry derry down . among the leaves so green a. The keepers would on a hunting go , And under their coats each carried his Bow , And all for to shoot the bonny bonny Doe , among the leaves so green a. Heigh down derry derry down , Heigh down down , ho down down , Heigh down , ho down , derry derry down , among the leaves so green a. They spied five Does upon a hill , And to shoot at them was their good will , But none of them they meant for to kill , among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc At the first Doe they shot at and they missed , The second Doe they clipped , and they killed , And they laid them down where no man a wist among the leaves so green a. The one cried out unto the other , I am serv'd as my Father serv'd my mother . All the fear of their taking this joy did smother among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc The third Doe she made great moan , Because that she was big with Fawn , Which made her to go weeping home , From among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc The Fourth doe could no longer stay , But she must be gone her way , For fear that the keepers should her lay among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc But soon after she did repent , And so turn again she was full bent , To lie down and take her hearts content , among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc The fifth Doe leapt over the style , But the keeper he god her by the heel , And there he did both kiss and feel among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc He pricked her straight with his dart , But she cried out she felt no smart , And therein lay the keepers art , among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , These fair Does there leapt and they skipped , Still leaping along , at length they were trip ; No sooner they fell , but the keepers they cliyt among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc These bold Huntsmen were all agreed , And by consent these fair Does did bleed ; But after that came often to feed among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc Great crowds came running over the plain , Expecting to see these fair does slave ; But like fools as they came they return'd again From among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc If it be true as old wives say , Take a Doe in the month of May , And a Foresters courage she soon will allay among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc These Huntsmen were so gentle inclin'd They let them rise their courage to find , But away they trip so swift as the wind , From among the leaves so green a. Heigh down derry derry down ; Heigh down down , ho down down , Heigh down , ho down , derry derry down , among the leaves so green a. Printed by and for A.M. The Huntsman's Delight , Or , the Foresters Pleasure . The Dear are wounded , but they are not slave , Yet so they're [ ho ] undead , that they are or'etain ; And in their taking pity it is shown : for why 'twas thought that some there was with fawn . The Keepers swore great Oaths , upon their lives , they'd be as kind to them , as men are to their wives , the pleasant sport this Ditty does declare , Of the Huntsmen , and the fallow Dear . Tune of , among the leaves so green a. By J.M. COme all you young Maidens & lend and ear Come listen a while and you shall hear How the keepers did sport with the fallow Deer among the leaves so green a. Heigh down derry derry down , Heigh down down , ho down down , Heigh down , ho down , derry derry down . among the leaves so green a. The keepers would on a hunting go , And under their coats each carried his Bow , And all for to shoot the bonny bonny Doe , among the leaves so green a. Heigh down derry derry down , Heigh down down , ho down down , Heigh down , ho down , derry derry down , among the leaves so green a. They spied five Does upon a hill , And to shoot at them was their good will , But none of them they meant for to kill , among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc At the first Doe they shot at and they missed , The second Doe they clipped , and they killed , And they laid them down where no man a wist among the leaves so green a. The one cried out unto the other , I am serv'd as my Father serv'd my mother . All the fear of their taking this joy did smother among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc The third Doe she made great moan , Because that she was big with Fawn , Which made her to go weeping home , From among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc The Fourth doe could no longer stay , But she must be gone her way , For fear that the keepers should her lay among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc But soon after she did repent , And so turn again she was full bent , To lie down and take her hearts content , among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc The fifth Doe leapt over the style , But the keeper he god her by the heel , And there he did both kiss and feel among the leaves so green a. Heigh down , etc He pricked her straight with his dart , But she cried out she felt no smart , And therein lay the keepers art , among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , These fair Does there leapt and they skipped , Still leaping along , at length they were trip ; No sooner they fell , but the keepers they cliyt among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc These bold Huntsmen were all agreed , And by consent these fair Does did bleed ; But after that came often to feed among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc Great crowds came running over the plain , Expecting to see these fair does slave ; But like fools as they came they return'd again From among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc If it be true as old wives say , Take a Doe in the month of May , And a Foresters courage she soon will allay among the leaves so green a. heigh down , etc These Huntsmen were so gentle inclin'd They let them rise their courage to find , But away they trip so swift as the wind , From among the leaves so green a. Heigh down derry derry down ; Heigh down down , ho down down , Heigh down , ho down , derry derry down , among the leaves so green a. Printed by and for A.M. 