A most Excellent Ballad of Joseph the Carpenter , and the sacred Virgin Marry , who was the Mother of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ the ever blessed Redeemer Mankind . JOseph and aged man truly , Did marry a Virgin fair and free , A purer Virgin did no man see , then he chosen for his dear his dear . This Virgin was pure , there was no nay , The Angel Gabriel to her did say . Thou shalt conceive a boy this day , the which shall be our dear our dear . No sooner the Angel his message had said , But all in her she was afraid , How may this be ? and I a pure maid , say unto me my dear my dear , The holy Ghost ( Marry ) shall come on thee , The power of Heaven shall shadow thee , And thou shalt bear a Son truly . the which shall be our dear our dear , Then Joseph being a perfect man , Perceiving that Mary with Child was gone Said tell me Marry now and anon . who hath done this my dear my dear Then answered Marry meek and mild I know no Father to my Child , But God alone , and I undefil'd , he hath done this my dear my dear . Yet ( thinking she had been unjust , Yielding her body to lawless lust , Out of his house he thought to thrust , his only love and Lady dear . And so put her from him quite , Who was his joy and hearts delight , That blessed Virgin fair and bright , whom he did love so dear so dear . And while in heart he thought the same To him the Angel Gabriel came , As he lay sleeping on a Frame , and coming to his dear his dear . Who said , fear not to take to thee , Thy true and faithful wife Marry , Most true and constant sure is she , turn not off thy dear thy dear . When Joseph rose from his sleep so found , His love to Marry did more abound , He would not for a thousand pound , forsake his Love and Lady dear . They lived both in joy and bliss , But then a straight Commandment is , Through Judea land no man should miss , to go with h [ i ] s Love and Lady dear . Unto the Temple where they were born , And to the Emperor to be sworn , To pay a tribute duly known , both for himself and Lady dear , Then Joseph and his Marry free Who looked each hour delivered to be , To Bethelem came that sweet City , with his true Love and Lady dear . But when to Bethelem they were come , The Inns were filled all and some , When Joseph entreating every groom , could get no bed for his dear his dear Then was he constrained presently , Within the Stable all night to lie , Wherein they did Oxen and Asses tie , with his true love and Lady dear . The Virgin fair thought it no scorn , To lie in such a place forlorn , Which night she had a young-Son born , even Jesus Christ our dear our dear . Thou King of Peace , in Bethelem born That wore for our sake a crown of thorn , Preserve King Charles evening and morn , whom England Loves so dear so dear . A most Excellent Ballad of Joseph the Carpenter , and the sacred Virgin Marry , who was the Mother of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ the ever blessed Redeemer Mankind . JOseph and aged man truly , Did marry a Virgin fair and free , A purer Virgin did no man see , then he chosen for his dear his dear . This Virgin was pure , there was no nay , The Angel Gabriel to her did say . Thou shalt conceive a boy this day , the which shall be our dear our dear . No sooner the Angel his message had said , But all in her she was afraid , How may this be ? and I a pure maid , say unto me my dear my dear , The holy Ghost ( Marry ) shall come on thee , The power of Heaven shall shadow thee , And thou shalt bear a Son truly . the which shall be our dear our dear , Then Joseph being a perfect man , Perceiving that Mary with Child was gone Said tell me Marry now and anon . who hath done this my dear my dear Then answered Marry meek and mild I know no Father to my Child , But God alone , and I undefil'd , he hath done this my dear my dear . Yet ( thinking she had been unjust , Yielding her body to lawless lust , Out of his house he thought to thrust , his only love and Lady dear . And so put her from him quite , Who was his joy and hearts delight , That blessed Virgin fair and bright , whom he did love so dear so dear . And while in heart he thought the same To him the Angel Gabriel came , As he lay sleeping on a Frame , and coming to his dear his dear . Who said , fear not to take to thee , Thy true and faithful wife Marry , Most true and constant sure is she , turn not off thy dear thy dear . When Joseph rose from his sleep so found , His love to Marry did more abound , He would not for a thousand pound , forsake his Love and Lady dear . They lived both in joy and bliss , But then a straight Commandment is , Through Judea land no man should miss , to go with h [ i ] s Love and Lady dear . Unto the Temple where they were born , And to the Emperor to be sworn , To pay a tribute duly known , both for himself and Lady dear , Then Joseph and his Marry free Who looked each hour delivered to be , To Bethelem came that sweet City , with his true Love and Lady dear . But when to Bethelem they were come , The Inns were filled all and some , When Joseph entreating every groom , could get no bed for his dear his dear Then was he constrained presently , Within the Stable all night to lie , Wherein they did Oxen and Asses tie , with his true love and Lady dear . The Virgin fair thought it no scorn , To lie in such a place forlorn , Which night she had a young-Son born , even Jesus Christ our dear our dear . Thou King of Peace , in Bethelem born That wore for our sake a crown of thorn , Preserve King Charles evening and morn , whom England Loves so dear so dear . Even in the Twinkling of and Eye . AS I lay musing all alone , I herd a voice that loud did cry Come give account now every one even in the twinkling of and eye . With that I herd a trump did blow , and one said with a voice so high , Destroy all things both high and low , even in the twinkling of and eye . Go forth he said , and do not stint , throughout the world even by and by , And bring them all to my judgement even in the twinkling of and eye . Destroy both Palace , Park and Game . Castles and Towers that be so high , To all things living do the same even in the twinkling of and eye , The Giant proud , the Tyrant fell , woe , and alas then shall they cry , For I will throw them down to hell even in the twinkling of and eye . With that I saw a Cloud was bent . and one siting on it so high , Prepared for to give judgement even in the twinkling of and eye . Then all that in the earth did rest , stood up before him by and by , The Books opened and nothing pressed , even in the twinkling of and eye , Divided were without delay the good from ill continually , Sentence was given that same day , even in the twinkling of and eye . The good on his right hand did stand , praising him still most joyfully , With Psalms of victory in their hand , even in the twinkling of and eye . The evil on his left hand did go , crying out most lamentably , Saying alas ! come is our woe , even in the twinkling of and eye . Unto the good the Lord did say , speaking to them most joyfully Take thou the Kingdom that lasteth for aye , even in the twinkling of and eye , Unto the evil the Lord did turn , saying to them most lamentably , Go to the fire that ever shall burn , even in the twinkling of and eye . O Lord we pray for Christ his sake , that shed his blood upon a tree , To keep us from that fiery lake , even in the twinkling of and eye . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Even in the Twinkling of and Eye . AS I lay musing all alone , I herd a voice that loud did cry Come give account now every one even in the twinkling of and eye . With that I herd a trump did blow , and one said with a voice so high , Destroy all things both high and low , even in the twinkling of and eye . Go forth he said , and do not stint , throughout the world even by and by , And bring them all to my judgement even in the twinkling of and eye . Destroy both Palace , Park and Game . Castles and Towers that be so high , To all things living do the same even in the twinkling of and eye , The Giant proud , the Tyrant fell , woe , and alas then shall they cry , For I will throw them down to hell even in the twinkling of and eye . With that I saw a Cloud was bent . and one siting on it so high , Prepared for to give judgement even in the twinkling of and eye . Then all that in the earth did rest , stood up before him by and by , The Books opened and nothing pressed , even in the twinkling of and eye , Divided were without delay the good from ill continually , Sentence was given that same day , even in the twinkling of and eye . The good on his right hand did stand , praising him still most joyfully , With Psalms of victory in their hand , even in the twinkling of and eye . The evil on his left hand did go , crying out most lamentably , Saying alas ! come is our woe , even in the twinkling of and eye . Unto the good the Lord did say , speaking to them most joyfully Take thou the Kingdom that lasteth for aye , even in the twinkling of and eye , Unto the evil the Lord did turn , saying to them most lamentably , Go to the fire that ever shall burn , even in the twinkling of and eye . O Lord we pray for Christ his sake , that shed his blood upon a tree , To keep us from that fiery lake , even in the twinkling of and eye . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 