Joan's sorrowful Lamentation : OR , Falsehearted John's Unkindness to her , at her time of Distress . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . Licensed according to Order . COme hither sweet John , and let me discover , the Smiles of a Lover , A right honest Man I hope you will prove ; For I love thee as Life , And wou'd fain be thy Wife , remember thy Vow ; Behold my Condition , Behold my Condition , Love marry me now . Then John he reply'd , sweet Joan you must tarry , I mean not to marry , Why should I be ty'd to sorrow and noise ? I can live at my ease , And walk where I please , where Pleasures do flow ; But if I was married , But if I was married , I must not do so . I never will scold , my dearest believe me , ah ! why shou'd thou grieve-me ; Here's Silver and Gold , and pleasure my dear ; If to Love thou'lt incline ; Thou shalt have what is mine , Remember thy Vow , You see my condition , You see my condition , Love marry me now . John merrily smil'd , with this pleasant Greeting , said he , My dear sweating , Why art thou with Child ? Yes Johnny she cry'd , You remember the day , We together did play Remember your Vow , You see my condition , You see my condition , Love marry me now . I tell you sweet Joan , thou hast no great reason , to sighs at this Season , Or make this sad moan for such a small Crime : 'Tis in vain to be sad , Rejoice and be glad , Let thanks be expressed , You'll now be a Mother , You'll now be a Mother , as well as the best . You laugh me to scorn . the which makes my trouble full seven times double , My Life is forlorn , ah ! where shall I go , You've forgotten what you swore , When you seem'd to adore , my amorous Charms ; I wish I had never I wish I had never been clasped in thy Arms. Pray where's the harm done , if you have hereafter , a pretty sweet Daughter , Or tattling Son to dandle about ? Yes Dearest , she cry'd , If I might be thy Bride . my Joys wou'd remain , I shou'd have no reason , I shou'd have no reason , sweet John to complain . Before I wou'd yield , what Vows did you make me , you'd never forsake me , And Love you'd reveal'd , ah ! have you forgotten , How you swore by your Life I should soon be your Wife , come think on this John , And now let me find you , And now let me find you , a right honest Man. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . Joan's sorrowful Lamentation : OR , Falsehearted John's Unkindness to her , at her time of Distress . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . Licensed according to Order . COme hither sweet John , and let me discover , the Smiles of a Lover , A right honest Man I hope you will prove ; For I love thee as Life , And wou'd fain be thy Wife , remember thy Vow ; Behold my Condition , Behold my Condition , Love marry me now . Then John he reply'd , sweet Joan you must tarry , I mean not to marry , Why should I be ty'd to sorrow and noise ? I can live at my ease , And walk where I please , where Pleasures do flow ; But if I was married , But if I was married , I must not do so . I never will scold , my dearest believe me , ah ! why shou'd thou grieve-me ; Here's Silver and Gold , and pleasure my dear ; If to Love thou'lt incline ; Thou shalt have what is mine , Remember thy Vow , You see my condition , You see my condition , Love marry me now . John merrily smil'd , with this pleasant Greeting , said he , My dear sweating , Why art thou with Child ? Yes Johnny she cry'd , You remember the day , We together did play Remember your Vow , You see my condition , You see my condition , Love marry me now . I tell you sweet Joan , thou hast no great reason , to sighs at this Season , Or make this sad moan for such a small Crime : 'Tis in vain to be sad , Rejoice and be glad , Let thanks be expressed , You'll now be a Mother , You'll now be a Mother , as well as the best . You laugh me to scorn . the which makes my trouble full seven times double , My Life is forlorn , ah ! where shall I go , You've forgotten what you swore , When you seem'd to adore , my amorous Charms ; I wish I had never I wish I had never been clasped in thy Arms. Pray where's the harm done , if you have hereafter , a pretty sweet Daughter , Or tattling Son to dandle about ? Yes Dearest , she cry'd , If I might be thy Bride . my Joys wou'd remain , I shou'd have no reason , I shou'd have no reason , sweet John to complain . Before I wou'd yield , what Vows did you make me , you'd never forsake me , And Love you'd reveal'd , ah ! have you forgotten , How you swore by your Life I should soon be your Wife , come think on this John , And now let me find you , And now let me find you , a right honest Man. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 