THE Innocent Country . Maids Delight . OR , A Description of the Lives of the Lasses of LONDON . At London they the wanton play , as it is often seen . While we do go , all of a Row , Unto the Meadows green . Set to and Excellent Country Dance . This may be Printed . R.P. SOme Lasses are nice and strange , That keep Shop in the Exchange , Fit pricking of Clouts , And giving of flouts , And seldom abroad do range : Then comes the Green Sickness , And changes their likeness , and all for want of Sale ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow , to carry the milking-Payl . Each Lass she will paint her Face , To seem with a comely grace , And powder their Hair , To make them look fair , That Gallants may them embrace : But every Morning , Before their adorning , they're far unfit for Sale ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow to carry the milking-Payl . The more to appear in Pride , They often in Coaches ride , Dressed up in their Knots , Their Jewels and Spots , And twenty Knick-Knacks beside : Their Gallants Embrace 'em , At length they Disgrace 'em , and then they weep and wail ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow , to carry the milking-Payl . There's nothing they prize above , The delicate Charms of Love , They Kiss and they Court , They're right for the Sport , No way like the Turtle-Dove : For they are for any , Not one , but a many , at length they spoil their Sale ; But 'tis not so , etc They feed upon Dainties fine , Their Liquour is curious Wine , If any will lend , They'l borrow and spend , And this is a perfect sign That they are for pleasure , While wasting their Treasure , and then they may to Jail ; But 'tis not so , etc They fit at their Windows all day , Dressed up like your Ladies gay , They prattle and talk , But seldom they walk . Their Work is no more than play : They living so easy , Their Stomachs are squesie , they know not what they ail ; But 'tis not so , etc When e're they have been too free , And happen with Child to be , The Doctor be sure , Is sent for to Cure , This two-legged Tympany : And thus the Physician , Must hide their Condition , for fear they spoil that [ e ] ir Sale , But 'tis not so , etc There's Margery , Ciss and Prue , Right Country Girls and true , Nay Bridget and Jone , Full well it is known , They'l dabble it in the Due : They trip it together , And fear not the Weather , although both Rain and Hail : Full well you know , away we go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow . to carry the milking-Payl . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . THE Innocent Country . Maids Delight . OR , A Description of the Lives of the Lasses of LONDON . At London they the wanton play , as it is often seen . While we do go , all of a Row , Unto the Meadows green . Set to and Excellent Country Dance . This may be Printed . R.P. SOme Lasses are nice and strange , That keep Shop in the Exchange , Fit pricking of Clouts , And giving of flouts , And seldom abroad do range : Then comes the Green Sickness , And changes their likeness , and all for want of Sale ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow , to carry the milking-Payl . Each Lass she will paint her Face , To seem with a comely grace , And powder their Hair , To make them look fair , That Gallants may them embrace : But every Morning , Before their adorning , they're far unfit for Sale ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow to carry the milking-Payl . The more to appear in Pride , They often in Coaches ride , Dressed up in their Knots , Their Jewels and Spots , And twenty Knick-Knacks beside : Their Gallants Embrace 'em , At length they Disgrace 'em , and then they weep and wail ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow , to carry the milking-Payl . There's nothing they prize above , The delicate Charms of Love , They Kiss and they Court , They're right for the Sport , No way like the Turtle-Dove : For they are for any , Not one , but a many , at length they spoil their Sale ; But 'tis not so , etc They feed upon Dainties fine , Their Liquour is curious Wine , If any will lend , They'l borrow and spend , And this is a perfect sign That they are for pleasure , While wasting their Treasure , and then they may to Jail ; But 'tis not so , etc They fit at their Windows all day , Dressed up like your Ladies gay , They prattle and talk , But seldom they walk . Their Work is no more than play : They living so easy , Their Stomachs are squesie , they know not what they ail ; But 'tis not so , etc When e're they have been too free , And happen with Child to be , The Doctor be sure , Is sent for to Cure , This two-legged Tympany : And thus the Physician , Must hide their Condition , for fear they spoil that [ e ] ir Sale , But 'tis not so , etc There's Margery , Ciss and Prue , Right Country Girls and true , Nay Bridget and Jone , Full well it is known , They'l dabble it in the Due : They trip it together , And fear not the Weather , although both Rain and Hail : Full well you know , away we go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow . to carry the milking-Payl . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . THE Innocent Country . Maids Delight . OR , A Description of the Lives of the Lasses of LONDON . At London they the wanton play , as it is often seen . While we do go , all of a Row , Unto the Meadows green . Set to and Excellent Country Dance . This may be Printed . R.P. SOme Lasses are nice and strange , That keep Shop in the Exchange , Fit pricking of Clouts , And giving of flouts , And seldom abroad do range : Then comes the Green Sickness , And changes their likeness , and all for want of Sale ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow , to carry the milking-Payl . Each Lass she will paint her Face , To seem with a comely grace , And powder their Hair , To make them look fair , That Gallants may them embrace : But every Morning , Before their adorning , they're far unfit for Sale ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow to carry the milking-Payl . The more to appear in Pride , They often in Coaches ride , Dressed up in their Knots , Their Jewels and Spots , And twenty Knick-Knacks beside : Their Gallants Embrace 'em , At length they Disgrace 'em , and then they weep and wail ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow , to carry the milking-Payl . There's nothing they prize above , The delicate Charms of Love , They Kiss and they Court , They're right for the Sport , No way like the Turtle-Dove : For they are for any , Not one , but a many , at length they spoil their Sale ; But 'tis not so , etc They feed upon Dainties fine , Their Liquour is curious Wine , If any will lend , They'l borrow and spend , And this is a perfect sign That they are for pleasure , While wasting their Treasure , and then they may to Jail ; But 'tis not so , etc They fit at their Windows all day , Dressed up like your Ladies gay , They prattle and talk , But seldom they walk . Their Work is no more than play : They living so easy , Their Stomachs are squesie , they know not what they ail ; But 'tis not so , etc When e're they have been too free , And happen with Child to be , The Doctor be sure , Is sent for to Cure , This two-legged Tympany : And thus the Physician , Must hide their Condition , for fear they spoil that [ e ] ir Sale , But 'tis not so , etc There's Margery , Ciss and Prue , Right Country Girls and true , Nay Bridget and Jone , Full well it is known , They'l dabble it in the Due : They trip it together , And fear not the Weather , although both Rain and Hail : Full well you know , away we go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow . to carry the milking-Payl . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . THE Innocent Country . Maids Delight . OR , A Description of the Lives of the Lasses of LONDON . At London they the wanton play , as it is often seen . While we do go , all of a Row , Unto the Meadows green . Set to and Excellent Country Dance . This may be Printed . R.P. SOme Lasses are nice and strange , That keep Shop in the Exchange , Fit pricking of Clouts , And giving of flouts , And seldom abroad do range : Then comes the Green Sickness , And changes their likeness , and all for want of Sale ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow , to carry the milking-Payl . Each Lass she will paint her Face , To seem with a comely grace , And powder their Hair , To make them look fair , That Gallants may them embrace : But every Morning , Before their adorning , they're far unfit for Sale ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow to carry the milking-Payl . The more to appear in Pride , They often in Coaches ride , Dressed up in their Knots , Their Jewels and Spots , And twenty Knick-Knacks beside : Their Gallants Embrace 'em , At length they Disgrace 'em , and then they weep and wail ; But 'tis not so , with we that go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow , to carry the milking-Payl . There's nothing they prize above , The delicate Charms of Love , They Kiss and they Court , They're right for the Sport , No way like the Turtle-Dove : For they are for any , Not one , but a many , at length they spoil their Sale ; But 'tis not so , etc They feed upon Dainties fine , Their Liquour is curious Wine , If any will lend , They'l borrow and spend , And this is a perfect sign That they are for pleasure , While wasting their Treasure , and then they may to Jail ; But 'tis not so , etc They fit at their Windows all day , Dressed up like your Ladies gay , They prattle and talk , But seldom they walk . Their Work is no more than play : They living so easy , Their Stomachs are squesie , they know not what they ail ; But 'tis not so , etc When e're they have been too free , And happen with Child to be , The Doctor be sure , Is sent for to Cure , This two-legged Tympany : And thus the Physician , Must hide their Condition , for fear they spoil that [ e ] ir Sale , But 'tis not so , etc There's Margery , Ciss and Prue , Right Country Girls and true , Nay Bridget and Jone , Full well it is known , They'l dabble it in the Due : They trip it together , And fear not the Weather , although both Rain and Hail : Full well you know , away we go , Through Frost and Snow , when Winds do blow . to carry the milking-Payl . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 