v A Letter for a Christian Family . Directed to all true Christians to Read . Which being-sealed up in heart and mind , Nothing but truth in it you'l find . Both old and young , both Rich and Poor , Bear it in mind , keep it in store : And think upon the time to come , For time does pass , the Glass does run , Therefore while thou hast time and space , Call to the Lord above for Grace , Then he will surely thee defend , And thou shalt make a happy end . To the Tune of , The Godly men Instruction . BOth young and old , both rich and poor give ear , Unto these verses which I shall declare , And give good heed to that which here is pen'd , And strive in time your wicked lives to mend . But yet there's many that does not regard , Till for their sins they have a just reward : But still goes on their wicked courses run , Until both Soul and body be undone . Therefore good people let us have a care , And unto Christ with speed let us repair ; Leave off your sins which now do so abound , For 'twas for since that once the world was drowned . How many sins within this land we see ? In high and low of every degree ; Both rich and poor they now do live at strife , And great debate is betwixt man and wife . Brother and Sister they do disagree , As by experience now we daily see : And children that have hardly use of tongue , Will swear and curse as they do pass along . And some will curse their parents to their face , Methinks to them it is a foul disgrace , But 'tis forbidden in the Laws of God , Therefore let's serve him all with one accord . The since of pride we see does so excel , In men and women now the truth to tell : And for that since we read that Satan fell , From and high Angel to a Devil in Hell . Also we read of Dives pomp and state , And of poor Lazarus that lay at his gate , In Abrahams bosom he was nourished , And with sweet comforts he was daily fed . While Dives for one drop did call and cry , To cool his tongue , he did in torments lie , But any comfort could could he not receive , Because poor Lazarus he would not relieve . IN fashions strange and many a found delight , We please our fancies now both day & night , And never think upon this day to come , Although our glass have but one hour to run , There's many now that to the Church do go , Their pomp and pride , and bravery to show ; More then to hear the sacred word of God But let all such beware his heavy Rod . Be not too covetous in heart and mind , Nor to that since be not too much enclin'd ; Remember Judas how he was too bold , For covetousness his Lord and Master sold . Be not too prudent in this thy worldly wealth , Do not trust to it , for it is but pelf , 'Twill fade away and leave thee in the dust , From thence thou cam'st , and thither return thou must . Lord give us grace to understand aright , Thy holy laws , and therein take deligh And comfort those the which are comfortless , And help the Widow in her great distress . Likewise the Fatherless Oh Lord defend , And thy true grace unto all Christians send : And grant that we thy holy name may fear : And serve thee still with heart most pure and clear . How many messengers the Lord hath sent , To give us warning that we should repent , But yet our hearts so stubborn are I say , That we Gods holy word will not obey . Sermons on Sermons we do daily hear ; By Ministers well learn'd as does appear , To give us warning to repent our since , Which we so long time now have lived in . All you that read these lines which here is pen'd , Observe them well and strive your lives to mend . For time does slide and swiftly pass away One hour or minute for no man will stay . Our time which in this world we have to spend , In prayers and tears unto the Lord let's send , For to defend us from all Satans power , That seeks our souls and bodies to devour . Now , to conclude , the God of peace and love , Grant that our souls may dwell in Heaven above : And grant our King & Queen a prosperous reign , The Gospel pure among us to maintain . By me J.V. Printed for J.C. W.T. and TO . P.v A Letter for a Christian Family . Directed to all true Christians to Read . Which being-sealed up in heart and mind , Nothing but truth in it you'l find . Both old and young , both Rich and Poor , Bear it in mind , keep it in store : And think upon the time to come , For time does pass , the Glass does run , Therefore while thou hast time and space , Call to the Lord above for Grace , Then he will surely thee defend , And thou shalt make a happy end . To the Tune of , The Godly men Instruction . BOth young and old , both rich and poor give ear , Unto these verses which I shall declare , And give good heed to that which here is pen'd , And strive in time your wicked lives to mend . But yet there's many that does not regard , Till for their sins they have a just reward : But still goes on their wicked courses run , Until both Soul and body be undone . Therefore good people let us have a care , And unto Christ with speed let us repair ; Leave off your sins which now do so abound , For 'twas for since that once the world was drowned . How many sins within this land we see ? In high and low of every degree ; Both rich and poor they now do live at strife , And great debate is betwixt man and wife . Brother and Sister they do disagree , As by experience now we daily see : And children that have hardly use of tongue , Will swear and curse as they do pass along . And some will curse their parents to their face , Methinks to them it is a foul disgrace , But 'tis forbidden in the Laws of God , Therefore let's serve him all with one accord . The since of pride we see does so excel , In men and women now the truth to tell : And for that since we read that Satan fell , From and high Angel to a Devil in Hell . Also we read of Dives pomp and state , And of poor Lazarus that lay at his gate , In Abrahams bosom he was nourished , And with sweet comforts he was daily fed . While Dives for one drop did call and cry , To cool his tongue , he did in torments lie , But any comfort could could he not receive , Because poor Lazarus he would not relieve . IN fashions strange and many a found delight , We please our fancies now both day & night , And never think upon this day to come , Although our glass have but one hour to run , There's many now that to the Church do go , Their pomp and pride , and bravery to show ; More then to hear the sacred word of God But let all such beware his heavy Rod . Be not too covetous in heart and mind , Nor to that since be not too much enclin'd ; Remember Judas how he was too bold , For covetousness his Lord and Master sold . Be not too prudent in this thy worldly wealth , Do not trust to it , for it is but pelf , 'Twill fade away and leave thee in the dust , From thence thou cam'st , and thither return thou must . Lord give us grace to understand aright , Thy holy laws , and therein take deligh And comfort those the which are comfortless , And help the Widow in her great distress . Likewise the Fatherless Oh Lord defend , And thy true grace unto all Christians send : And grant that we thy holy name may fear : And serve thee still with heart most pure and clear . How many messengers the Lord hath sent , To give us warning that we should repent , But yet our hearts so stubborn are I say , That we Gods holy word will not obey . Sermons on Sermons we do daily hear ; By Ministers well learn'd as does appear , To give us warning to repent our since , Which we so long time now have lived in . All you that read these lines which here is pen'd , Observe them well and strive your lives to mend . For time does slide and swiftly pass away One hour or minute for no man will stay . Our time which in this world we have to spend , In prayers and tears unto the Lord let's send , For to defend us from all Satans power , That seeks our souls and bodies to devour . Now , to conclude , the God of peace and love , Grant that our souls may dwell in Heaven above : And grant our King & Queen a prosperous reign , The Gospel pure among us to maintain . By me J.V. Printed for J.C. W.T. and T.P. 