r TO God alone let us all Glory give , By whose permission we poor Mortals live , And tho' our Enemies may swell with Pride , He soon can compass them on ev'ry side . King William is the Glorious Instrument , Which by the Providence of God was sent , To save our drooping Laws and Liberty , From French and Popish cruel Tyranny . When in dark gloomy Cells the Plots was laid , This freeborn Land and Nation to Invade , Bold Brittain Sail'd forth with her Royal Fleet , Which did the daring Enemy defeat . Renowned RUSSEL , let them understand , That for the Honour of his Native Land ; That [ r ] o' Smoke and Flame , he cou'd with Courage go , To face proud Lewis that insulting Foe . No fear or Favour cou'd his Actions sway , Nor cou'd he in the least be drawn away From acting like a Noble Hero bold , For all the promis'd Gifts of cursed Gold . N [ a ] y , Valiant Ashby , let them feel his Rage , While Death , he rid in Triumph o'er the Stage O [ r ] the French Navy on the Ocean Main , A [ n ] worser English Boys did Victory obtain . The Spirits of the French began to faint , So that they pray'd to ev'ry Papish Saint , To help them in a time of sad Distress ; Yet that [ e ] y were burned and beaten ne'ertheless . Admiral Carter Fought them through and through , The like of him before they never knew ; His Chain-Shot did their Ships in pieces tear , As if great Jove with Thunder had been there . Brave Delavall met with the Rising-Sun Of France , who to the shore for shelter run , With many more , which in a stat [ e ] lie Flame He soon did set , our Glory to proclaim . Sir Clously Shovel , with [ a ] Valiant heart , In this most Glorious Conquest boar a part ; His roaring Cannons sunk them in the Main , From whence they never can return again . The Force of France he ne'er was known to fear , But like a stout Commander , v [ oh ] w'd to clear The Seas of French , or they [ s ] hou'd make his Grave And Monument in a rough [ r ] oaring Wave . The next was Rook , that brave , Heroic Soul , Who none alive cou'd ever yet Control ; A Dozen men of War of France he Burn'd , Who e'er next day was all to Ashes turn'd . The F [ r ] ench was follow'd to their very shore , Pursu'd with Guns , which did like Thunder roar Such Admirals before was never known , They fear'd Old Lewis , nay , and shook his Throne . Nor were the Valiant Dutch-men far behind , They on the Ocean bear a Noble mind ; True Sons of Thunder , that will not retreat , Until they see their Foes destroy'd and beatrice . Tho' they had once been Wounded on the Main , Like Soldiers , they resolv'd to bleed again , Or bring the proud insulting Tyrant low , Who strives to seek all Europe's Overthrow . Those Valiant Souls let all good Men commend , Their Lives they ventur'd freely , to defend Religion , Laws , and likewise Liberty ; 'Tis better die , than live in Slavery . But God above I hope will ever bless Our Arms by Sea and Land with good Success ; That Victories may constantly increase , Till War is swallow'd in a Glorious Peace . Now for King William let all Subject's pray , That God would Guard his Person night and day , From all false Friends , and likewise open Foes , Let Angels Guard him wheresoe'er he goes . London , Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 1692 . r TO God alone let us all Glory give , By whose permission we poor Mortals live , And tho' our Enemies may swell with Pride , He soon can compass them on ev'ry side . King William is the Glorious Instrument , Which by the Providence of God was sent , To save our drooping Laws and Liberty , From French and Popish cruel Tyranny . When in dark gloomy Cells the Plots was laid , This freeborn Land and Nation to Invade , Bold Brittain Sail'd forth with her Royal Fleet , Which did the daring Enemy defeat . Renowned RUSSEL , let them understand , That for the Honour of his Native Land ; That [ r ] o' Smoke and Flame , he cou'd with Courage go , To face proud Lewis that insulting Foe . No fear or Favour cou'd his Actions sway , Nor cou'd he in the least be drawn away From acting like a Noble Hero bold , For all the promis'd Gifts of cursed Gold . N [ a ] y , Valiant Ashby , let them feel his Rage , While Death , he rid in Triumph o'er the Stage O [ r ] the French Navy on the Ocean Main , A [ n ] worser English Boys did Victory obtain . The Spirits of the French began to faint , So that they pray'd to ev'ry Papish Saint , To help them in a time of sad Distress ; Yet that [ e ] y were burned and beaten ne'ertheless . Admiral Carter Fought them through and through , The like of him before they never knew ; His Chain-Shot did their Ships in pieces tear , As if great Jove with Thunder had been there . Brave Delavall met with the Rising-Sun Of France , who to the shore for shelter run , With many more , which in a stat [ e ] lie Flame He soon did set , our Glory to proclaim . Sir Clously Shovel , with [ a ] Valiant heart , In this most Glorious Conquest boar a part ; His roaring Cannons sunk them in the Main , From whence they never can return again . The Force of France he ne'er was known to fear , But like a stout Commander , v [ oh ] w'd to clear The Seas of French , or they [ s ] hou'd make his Grave And Monument in a rough [ r ] oaring Wave . The next was Rook , that brave , Heroic Soul , Who none alive cou'd ever yet Control ; A Dozen men of War of France he Burn'd , Who e'er next day was all to Ashes turn'd . The F [ r ] ench was follow'd to their very shore , Pursu'd with Guns , which did like Thunder roar Such Admirals before was never known , They fear'd Old Lewis , nay , and shook his Throne . Nor were the Valiant Dutch-men far behind , They on the Ocean bear a Noble mind ; True Sons of Thunder , that will not retreat , Until they see their Foes destroy'd and beatrice . Tho' they had once been Wounded on the Main , Like Soldiers , they resolv'd to bleed again , Or bring the proud insulting Tyrant low , Who strives to seek all Europe's Overthrow . Those Valiant Souls let all good Men commend , Their Lives they ventur'd freely , to defend Religion , Laws , and likewise Liberty ; 'Tis better die , than live in Slavery . But God above I hope will ever bless Our Arms by Sea and Land with good Success ; That Victories may constantly increase , Till War is swallow'd in a Glorious Peace . Now for King William let all Subject's pray , That God would Guard his Person night and day , From all false Friends , and likewise open Foes , Let Angels Guard him wheresoe'er he goes . London , Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 1692. 