The Kentish MIRACLE ; OR , A Strange and Miraculous Work of Gods Providence , showed to a poor distressed Widow , and her Seven small Fatherless Children . Who lived by a burned sixpenny Loaf of Bred , and a little Water , for above Seven Weeks , in the Wild of Kent , to the Praise and Glory of Almighty God . To the Tune of , A Rich Merchant-Man . Entered according to Order . TAke comfort Christians all , for never shall you see The faithful forsaken quite , and left in misery . Who lives and loves to hear the Truth in each degree , The s [ tO ] ory of a Widows plaint let [ tO ] hem give ear to me Who by this Widow here , sufficient have been try'd , The which was left both poor and bore , when as her Husband dy'd . And seven young Children small , upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred , their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred God knows she lays in pawn . But when the appointed time , as time consumeth all , Oh then she knew not how to keep her hungry Children small . MOst merciful God , said she , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy servant here , with a famishing death to die . Thou that the Ravens didst send , Elias for to feed : When that he was in Wilderness , in extreme want and need , And Reigned Bred from Heaven , Old Israel to preserve : And would'st not in the lyons den let Daniel pine and starve . I know my Lord , she said , thou didst five thousand feed : With five small Barley Loaves , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough , their hunger to sustain ; And afterwards twelve baskets full of scraps did still remain . I know my Lord , she said , thou art so mighty still : And therefore every thing be done according to thy will . Her Prayers ended thus , her Children cry'd straight way ; Oh Mother dear give us some bred , we have eat none to day . Give me some bred , said one , give me some bred , said another : And thus the silly Infants flock , about their careful Mother . The good Soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my lambs said she , you shall have bred your fill . I will to Market go , let Corn be cheap or dear , I'le fell my Coat to buy some corn , if you'l be quiet here . The Children smil'd at this , content they did remain , Good Mother every one could say , come quickly home again . Three Miles this woman went , unto the Market Town , And for five shillings she did fell , her Coat and Russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies : But there alas her purse was cut , e're any Corn she buys . She Cryeth out , God knows , she weeps & makes great moan , To every one that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see , here in her woeful case : Her husbands brother he was one that sold Corn in that place . This woeful woman then , did him desire and pray , To trust her with one sack of corn , till the next Market day . But he denies her Flat , and thus he tells her plain , I shall not have to serve my turn , till Corn do come again . More heed you might have took , unto your purse said he , And not to lose your money here , so found and foolishly . This dogged answer cut this poor soul to the heart , Especially when she did think , upon her infants smart . Who sits and strives at home , poor souls , but all in vain ; Which of them should the biggest piece , of bred and butter gain . But far alas they were , from butter , bred , or cheese , Or any thing to comfort them that their poor Mother sees . But now behold Gods work , as homeward she return'd , A Bakers Boy gave her a Loaf , which was in Baking burn'd . She gave God thanks for that , and joyful in her hand , She bears the bred home to her , babes , which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look : And said we will to supper go , when you have said your Book . Mean time she makes a Fire , and apples therein throws , The Widow , and her seven Children to supper sweetly goes . The Apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly , she does the Apple spread . Instead of Drink , she had , a Cup of water clear , And every Child rejoiced much , and said here is good cheer . Behold when they had supped , for God their food did bless , When they had sup'd & were suffic'd their Loaf was never the less . For seven weeks space together , as story's plainly spread , The widow and her seven children by this one Loaf was fed . The Cut purse Man I say , he broke his neck in Kent , E're he of this poor widows money on single penny had spent . And yet behold and see , her husbands churlish brother , That would not trust a peck of corn her Children for to succour . And straightway after this , his Corn was washed away , All by a mighty flood that came , before the break of day . The Gentlemen , and such , that did this wonder see , Unto this widow gave such gifts , that ne're more wanted she . And now good people all , you here may plainly see , God servants are not forsaken quite Gods mercies is to them free . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-street without Newgate . The Kentish MIRACLE ; OR , A Strange and Miraculous Work of Gods Providence , showed to a poor distressed Widow , and her Seven small Fatherless Children . Who lived by a burned sixpenny Loaf of Bred , and a little Water , for above Seven Weeks , in the Wild of Kent , to the Praise and Glory of Almighty God . To the Tune of , A Rich Merchant-Man . Entered according to Order . TAke comfort Christians all , for never shall you see The faithful forsaken quite , and left in misery . Who lives and loves to hear the Truth in each degree , The s [ tO ] ory of a Widows plaint let [ tO ] hem give ear to me Who by this Widow here , sufficient have been try'd , The which was left both poor and bore , when as her Husband dy'd . And seven young Children small , upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred , their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred God knows she lays in pawn . But when the appointed time , as time consumeth all , Oh then she knew not how to keep her hungry Children small . MOst merciful God , said she , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy servant here , with a famishing death to die . Thou that the Ravens didst send , Elias for to feed : When that he was in Wilderness , in extreme want and need , And Reigned Bred from Heaven , Old Israel to preserve : And would'st not in the lyons den let Daniel pine and starve . I know my Lord , she said , thou didst five thousand feed : With five small Barley Loaves , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough , their hunger to sustain ; And afterwards twelve baskets full of scraps did still remain . I know my Lord , she said , thou art so mighty still : And therefore every thing be done according to thy will . Her Prayers ended thus , her Children cry'd straight way ; Oh Mother dear give us some bred , we have eat none to day . Give me some bred , said one , give me some bred , said another : And thus the silly Infants flock , about their careful Mother . The good Soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my lambs said she , you shall have bred your fill . I will to Market go , let Corn be cheap or dear , I'le fell my Coat to buy some corn , if you'l be quiet here . The Children smil'd at this , content they did remain , Good Mother every one could say , come quickly home again . Three Miles this woman went , unto the Market Town , And for five shillings she did fell , her Coat and Russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies : But there alas her purse was cut , e're any Corn she buys . She Cryeth out , God knows , she weeps & makes great moan , To every one that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see , here in her woeful case : Her husbands brother he was one that sold Corn in that place . This woeful woman then , did him desire and pray , To trust her with one sack of corn , till the next Market day . But he denies her Flat , and thus he tells her plain , I shall not have to serve my turn , till Corn do come again . More heed you might have took , unto your purse said he , And not to lose your money here , so found and foolishly . This dogged answer cut this poor soul to the heart , Especially when she did think , upon her infants smart . Who sits and strives at home , poor souls , but all in vain ; Which of them should the biggest piece , of bred and butter gain . But far alas they were , from butter , bred , or cheese , Or any thing to comfort them that their poor Mother sees . But now behold Gods work , as homeward she return'd , A Bakers Boy gave her a Loaf , which was in Baking burn'd . She gave God thanks for that , and joyful in her hand , She bears the bred home to her , babes , which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look : And said we will to supper go , when you have said your Book . Mean time she makes a Fire , and apples therein throws , The Widow , and her seven Children to supper sweetly goes . The Apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly , she does the Apple spread . Instead of Drink , she had , a Cup of water clear , And every Child rejoiced much , and said here is good cheer . Behold when they had supped , for God their food did bless , When they had sup'd & were suffic'd their Loaf was never the less . For seven weeks space together , as story's plainly spread , The widow and her seven children by this one Loaf was fed . The Cut purse Man I say , he broke his neck in Kent , E're he of this poor widows money on single penny had spent . And yet behold and see , her husbands churlish brother , That would not trust a peck of corn her Children for to succour . And straightway after this , his Corn was washed away , All by a mighty flood that came , before the break of day . The Gentlemen , and such , that did this wonder see , Unto this widow gave such gifts , that ne're more wanted she . And now good people all , you here may plainly see , God servants are not forsaken quite Gods mercies is to them free . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-street without Newgate . The Kentish MIRACLE ; OR , A Strange and Miraculous Work of Gods Providence , showed to a poor distressed Widow , and her Seven small Fatherless Children . Who lived by a burned sixpenny Loaf of Bred , and a little Water , for above Seven Weeks , in the Wild of Kent , to the Praise and Glory of Almighty God . To the Tune of , A Rich Merchant-Man . Entered according to Order . TAke comfort Christians all , for never shall you see The faithful forsaken quite , and left in misery . Who lives and loves to hear the Truth in each degree , The s [ tO ] ory of a Widows plaint let [ tO ] hem give ear to me Who by this Widow here , sufficient have been try'd , The which was left both poor and bore , when as her Husband dy'd . And seven young Children small , upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred , their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred God knows she lays in pawn . But when the appointed time , as time consumeth all , Oh then she knew not how to keep her hungry Children small . MOst merciful God , said she , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy servant here , with a famishing death to die . Thou that the Ravens didst send , Elias for to feed : When that he was in Wilderness , in extreme want and need , And Reigned Bred from Heaven , Old Israel to preserve : And would'st not in the lyons den let Daniel pine and starve . I know my Lord , she said , thou didst five thousand feed : With five small Barley Loaves , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough , their hunger to sustain ; And afterwards twelve baskets full of scraps did still remain . I know my Lord , she said , thou art so mighty still : And therefore every thing be done according to thy will . Her Prayers ended thus , her Children cry'd straight way ; Oh Mother dear give us some bred , we have eat none to day . Give me some bred , said one , give me some bred , said another : And thus the silly Infants flock , about their careful Mother . The good Soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my lambs said she , you shall have bred your fill . I will to Market go , let Corn be cheap or dear , I'le fell my Coat to buy some corn , if you'l be quiet here . The Children smil'd at this , content they did remain , Good Mother every one could say , come quickly home again . Three Miles this woman went , unto the Market Town , And for five shillings she did fell , her Coat and Russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies : But there alas her purse was cut , e're any Corn she buys . She Cryeth out , God knows , she weeps & makes great moan , To every one that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see , here in her woeful case : Her husbands brother he was one that sold Corn in that place . This woeful woman then , did him desire and pray , To trust her with one sack of corn , till the next Market day . But he denies her Flat , and thus he tells her plain , I shall not have to serve my turn , till Corn do come again . More heed you might have took , unto your purse said he , And not to lose your money here , so found and foolishly . This dogged answer cut this poor soul to the heart , Especially when she did think , upon her infants smart . Who sits and strives at home , poor souls , but all in vain ; Which of them should the biggest piece , of bred and butter gain . But far alas they were , from butter , bred , or cheese , Or any thing to comfort them that their poor Mother sees . But now behold Gods work , as homeward she return'd , A Bakers Boy gave her a Loaf , which was in Baking burn'd . She gave God thanks for that , and joyful in her hand , She bears the bred home to her , babes , which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look : And said we will to supper go , when you have said your Book . Mean time she makes a Fire , and apples therein throws , The Widow , and her seven Children to supper sweetly goes . The Apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly , she does the Apple spread . Instead of Drink , she had , a Cup of water clear , And every Child rejoiced much , and said here is good cheer . Behold when they had supped , for God their food did bless , When they had sup'd & were suffic'd their Loaf was never the less . For seven weeks space together , as story's plainly spread , The widow and her seven children by this one Loaf was fed . The Cut purse Man I say , he broke his neck in Kent , E're he of this poor widows money on single penny had spent . And yet behold and see , her husbands churlish brother , That would not trust a peck of corn her Children for to succour . And straightway after this , his Corn was washed away , All by a mighty flood that came , before the break of day . The Gentlemen , and such , that did this wonder see , Unto this widow gave such gifts , that ne're more wanted she . And now good people all , you here may plainly see , God servants are not forsaken quite Gods mercies is to them free . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-street without Newgate . The Kentish MIRACLE ; OR , A Strange and Miraculous Work of Gods Providence , showed to a poor distressed Widow , and her Seven small Fatherless Children . Who lived by a burned sixpenny Loaf of Bred , and a little Water , for above Seven Weeks , in the Wild of Kent , to the Praise and Glory of Almighty God . To the Tune of , A Rich Merchant-Man . Entered according to Order . TAke comfort Christians all , for never shall you see The faithful forsaken quite , and left in misery . Who lives and loves to hear the Truth in each degree , The s [ tO ] ory of a Widows plaint let [ tO ] hem give ear to me Who by this Widow here , sufficient have been try'd , The which was left both poor and bore , when as her Husband dy'd . And seven young Children small , upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred , their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred God knows she lays in pawn . But when the appointed time , as time consumeth all , Oh then she knew not how to keep her hungry Children small . MOst merciful God , said she , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy servant here , with a famishing death to die . Thou that the Ravens didst send , Elias for to feed : When that he was in Wilderness , in extreme want and need , And Reigned Bred from Heaven , Old Israel to preserve : And would'st not in the lyons den let Daniel pine and starve . I know my Lord , she said , thou didst five thousand feed : With five small Barley Loaves , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough , their hunger to sustain ; And afterwards twelve baskets full of scraps did still remain . I know my Lord , she said , thou art so mighty still : And therefore every thing be done according to thy will . Her Prayers ended thus , her Children cry'd straight way ; Oh Mother dear give us some bred , we have eat none to day . Give me some bred , said one , give me some bred , said another : And thus the silly Infants flock , about their careful Mother . The good Soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my lambs said she , you shall have bred your fill . I will to Market go , let Corn be cheap or dear , I'le fell my Coat to buy some corn , if you'l be quiet here . The Children smil'd at this , content they did remain , Good Mother every one could say , come quickly home again . Three Miles this woman went , unto the Market Town , And for five shillings she did fell , her Coat and Russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies : But there alas her purse was cut , e're any Corn she buys . She Cryeth out , God knows , she weeps & makes great moan , To every one that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see , here in her woeful case : Her husbands brother he was one that sold Corn in that place . This woeful woman then , did him desire and pray , To trust her with one sack of corn , till the next Market day . But he denies her Flat , and thus he tells her plain , I shall not have to serve my turn , till Corn do come again . More heed you might have took , unto your purse said he , And not to lose your money here , so found and foolishly . This dogged answer cut this poor soul to the heart , Especially when she did think , upon her infants smart . Who sits and strives at home , poor souls , but all in vain ; Which of them should the biggest piece , of bred and butter gain . But far alas they were , from butter , bred , or cheese , Or any thing to comfort them that their poor Mother sees . But now behold Gods work , as homeward she return'd , A Bakers Boy gave her a Loaf , which was in Baking burn'd . She gave God thanks for that , and joyful in her hand , She bears the bred home to her , babes , which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look : And said we will to supper go , when you have said your Book . Mean time she makes a Fire , and apples therein throws , The Widow , and her seven Children to supper sweetly goes . The Apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly , she does the Apple spread . Instead of Drink , she had , a Cup of water clear , And every Child rejoiced much , and said here is good cheer . Behold when they had supped , for God their food did bless , When they had sup'd & were suffic'd their Loaf was never the less . For seven weeks space together , as story's plainly spread , The widow and her seven children by this one Loaf was fed . The Cut purse Man I say , he broke his neck in Kent , E're he of this poor widows money on single penny had spent . And yet behold and see , her husbands churlish brother , That would not trust a peck of corn her Children for to succour . And straightway after this , his Corn was washed away , All by a mighty flood that came , before the break of day . The Gentlemen , and such , that did this wonder see , Unto this widow gave such gifts , that ne're more wanted she . And now good people all , you here may plainly see , God servants are not forsaken quite Gods mercies is to them free . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-street without Newgate . 