A Pleasant BALLAD showing how two Valiant KNIGHTS , Sir John Armstrong , and Sir Michael Musgrave , fell in Love with the Beautiful Daughter of the Lady Dacres , in the North ; and of the great Strife that happen'd between them for Her , and how they wrought the Death of one hundred Men . To and excellent new Northern Tune , etc AS it fell out one Whitsunday , the blithe time of the Year , When every tree was clad with green , and pretty birds sing clear ; The Lady Dacres took her way Unto the Church that pleasant day , With her fair Daughter fresh and gay , a bright and bonny Lass , Fa la tre dang de doe ; trang trole lo trang de do ; With heigh trang trole lo lie , she was a bonny Lass. Sir Michael Musgrave in like sort , to Church repaired then , And so did Sir John Armstrong too , with all his merry Men , Two greater Friends there could not be , Nor braver Knights for Chivalry , Both Bachelors of high degree , fit for a bonny Lass. They sat them down upon one seat , like loving Brothers dear , With hearts and minds devoutly bent God's service for to hear ; But rising from their prayers though , Their eyes a ranging straight did go , Which wrought their utter overthrow , all for one bonny Lass. Quod Musgrave unto Armstrong then , yond sits the sweetest Dame , That ever for her fair beauty , within this Country came . Insooth , quoth Armstrong presennly , Your judgement I must verify , There never came unto my eye , a braver bonny Lass. I swear , said Musgrave , by this sword , which did my Knighthood win , To steal away so sweet a Dame , could be no ghostly since . That deed , quod Armstrong , would be ill , Except he had her right good will , That your desire she would fulfil , and be thy bonny Lass. By this the service quite was done , and home the People pass They wished a blister on his tongue , that made thereof such haste . At the Church-door the Knights did meet , The Lady Dacres for to greet , But most of all her Daughter sweet , that beauteous bonny Lass. Said Armstrong , to the Lady fair , We both have made a vow , At dinner for to be your Guests , if you will it allow . With that bespoke the Lady free , Sir Knights , right welcome shall you be . The happier Men therefore are we , for love of this bonny Lass. Thus was the Knights both pricked in love , both in one moment thrall'd , And both with one fair Lady gay , thus blind in Cupid call'd . With humble thanks they went away , Like wounded hearts chaste all the day . One would not to the other say , they lov'd this bonny Lass. Fair Isabel on the other side , as far in love was found , So long brave Armstrong she had ey'd , till love her heart did wound : Brave Armstrong is my Joy , quoth she , Would Christ he were alone with me . To talk and hour two or three ; with his fair bonny Lass. But as these Knights together road , and homeward did repair , Their talk & eke their countenance shew'd , their hearts were clog'd with care ; Fair Isabel , the one did say , Thou hast subdu'd my heart this day , But she's my Joy , did Musgrave say , my bright and bonny Lass. With that these Friends incontinent , became most deadly Foes , For love of beauteous Isabel , great strife betwixt them rose : Quoth Armstrong , She shall be my Wife , Although for her I loose my life ; And thus began a deadly strife , and for one bonny Lass. Thus two years long this grudge did grow , these gallant Knights between , While they a wooing both did go , unto this beauteous Queen : And she who did their furies prove , To neither would bewray her love , The deadly quarrel to remove , about this bonny Lass. But neither of her fair intreats , nor yet her sharp dispute , Would they appease their raging ire , nor yet give o're their suit . The Gentlemen of the North Country , At last did make this good decree , All for a perfect unity , about this bonny Lass ; The Lovesick Knights should both be set within one hall so wide , Each of them in a gallant sort , even at a several ride ; And 'twixt them both for certainty , Fair Isabel should placed be Of them to take her choice full free , most like a bonny Lass. And as she like and Angel bright , betwixt them mildly stood , She turned unto each several Knight , with pale and changed blood : Now am I at liberty , To make and take my choice , quoth she , Yea , quoth the Knights , we do agree , then choose thou bonny Lass. O Musgrave , thou art all too hight , to be a Lady's Love . Quoth she , And Armstrong seems a Sot , where love binds him to prove ; Of courage great is Musgrave still ; And sith to choose I have my will , Sweet Armstrong shall my joys fulfil , and I his bonny Lass. The Nobles and the Gentiles both , that were in present place , Rejoiced at this sweet record : but Musgrave in disgrace , Out of the hall did take his way , And Armstrong married was next day , With Isabel his Lady gay , a bright and bonny Lass. But Musgrave on the wedding-day , like to a Scotchman dight , In secret sort allured out the Bridegroom for to fight ; And he that will not out-brav'd be , Unto his challenge did agree , Where he was slave most suddenly , for his fair bonny Lass. The news hereof was quickly brought unto the lovely Bride : And many of young Armstrong's Kin , did after Musgrave ride ; They hew'd him when they had him god , As small as flesh into the pot ; Lo thus befell a heavy lot , about this bonny Lass. The Lady young which did lament this cruel cursed strife , For very grief died that day , a Maiden and a Wife : And hundred Men that hapless day , Did lose their lives in that same fray ; And 'twixt those Names as many say , is deadly Hate still 'biding . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by J. Blare , on London-bridge . A Pleasant BALLAD showing how two Valiant KNIGHTS , Sir John Armstrong , and Sir Michael Musgrave , fell in Love with the Beautiful Daughter of the Lady Dacres , in the North ; and of the great Strife that happen'd between them for Her , and how they wrought the Death of one hundred Men . To and excellent new Northern Tune , etc AS it fell out one Whitsunday , the blithe time of the Year , When every tree was clad with green , and pretty birds sing clear ; The Lady Dacres took her way Unto the Church that pleasant day , With her fair Daughter fresh and gay , a bright and bonny Lass , Fa la tre dang de doe ; trang trole lo trang de do ; With heigh trang trole lo lie , she was a bonny Lass. Sir Michael Musgrave in like sort , to Church repaired then , And so did Sir John Armstrong too , with all his merry Men , Two greater Friends there could not be , Nor braver Knights for Chivalry , Both Bachelors of high degree , fit for a bonny Lass. They sat them down upon one seat , like loving Brothers dear , With hearts and minds devoutly bent God's service for to hear ; But rising from their prayers though , Their eyes a ranging straight did go , Which wrought their utter overthrow , all for one bonny Lass. Quod Musgrave unto Armstrong then , yond sits the sweetest Dame , That ever for her fair beauty , within this Country came . Insooth , quoth Armstrong presennly , Your judgement I must verify , There never came unto my eye , a braver bonny Lass. I swear , said Musgrave , by this sword , which did my Knighthood win , To steal away so sweet a Dame , could be no ghostly since . That deed , quod Armstrong , would be ill , Except he had her right good will , That your desire she would fulfil , and be thy bonny Lass. By this the service quite was done , and home the People pass They wished a blister on his tongue , that made thereof such haste . At the Church-door the Knights did meet , The Lady Dacres for to greet , But most of all her Daughter sweet , that beauteous bonny Lass. Said Armstrong , to the Lady fair , We both have made a vow , At dinner for to be your Guests , if you will it allow . With that bespoke the Lady free , Sir Knights , right welcome shall you be . The happier Men therefore are we , for love of this bonny Lass. Thus was the Knights both pricked in love , both in one moment thrall'd , And both with one fair Lady gay , thus blind in Cupid call'd . With humble thanks they went away , Like wounded hearts chaste all the day . One would not to the other say , they lov'd this bonny Lass. Fair Isabel on the other side , as far in love was found , So long brave Armstrong she had ey'd , till love her heart did wound : Brave Armstrong is my Joy , quoth she , Would Christ he were alone with me . To talk and hour two or three ; with his fair bonny Lass. But as these Knights together road , and homeward did repair , Their talk & eke their countenance shew'd , their hearts were clog'd with care ; Fair Isabel , the one did say , Thou hast subdu'd my heart this day , But she's my Joy , did Musgrave say , my bright and bonny Lass. With that these Friends incontinent , became most deadly Foes , For love of beauteous Isabel , great strife betwixt them rose : Quoth Armstrong , She shall be my Wife , Although for her I loose my life ; And thus began a deadly strife , and for one bonny Lass. Thus two years long this grudge did grow , these gallant Knights between , While they a wooing both did go , unto this beauteous Queen : And she who did their furies prove , To neither would bewray her love , The deadly quarrel to remove , about this bonny Lass. But neither of her fair intreats , nor yet her sharp dispute , Would they appease their raging ire , nor yet give o're their suit . The Gentlemen of the North Country , At last did make this good decree , All for a perfect unity , about this bonny Lass ; The Lovesick Knights should both be set within one hall so wide , Each of them in a gallant sort , even at a several ride ; And 'twixt them both for certainty , Fair Isabel should placed be Of them to take her choice full free , most like a bonny Lass. And as she like and Angel bright , betwixt them mildly stood , She turned unto each several Knight , with pale and changed blood : Now am I at liberty , To make and take my choice , quoth she , Yea , quoth the Knights , we do agree , then choose thou bonny Lass. O Musgrave , thou art all too hight , to be a Lady's Love . Quoth she , And Armstrong seems a Sot , where love binds him to prove ; Of courage great is Musgrave still ; And sith to choose I have my will , Sweet Armstrong shall my joys fulfil , and I his bonny Lass. The Nobles and the Gentiles both , that were in present place , Rejoiced at this sweet record : but Musgrave in disgrace , Out of the hall did take his way , And Armstrong married was next day , With Isabel his Lady gay , a bright and bonny Lass. But Musgrave on the wedding-day , like to a Scotchman dight , In secret sort allured out the Bridegroom for to fight ; And he that will not out-brav'd be , Unto his challenge did agree , Where he was slave most suddenly , for his fair bonny Lass. The news hereof was quickly brought unto the lovely Bride : And many of young Armstrong's Kin , did after Musgrave ride ; They hew'd him when they had him god , As small as flesh into the pot ; Lo thus befell a heavy lot , about this bonny Lass. The Lady young which did lament this cruel cursed strife , For very grief died that day , a Maiden and a Wife : And hundred Men that hapless day , Did lose their lives in that same fray ; And 'twixt those Names as many say , is deadly Hate still 'biding . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by J. Blare , on London-bridge . 