A Lesson for all True CHRISTIANS . Which being well observed by old and young , And practised with hand and heart , and tongue : Great comfort in it at the last you'll find , Then mark it well , and bear it in your mind . Tune of , The Letter for a Christian Family . By J.C. ALl you whose minds be high & heavenly bent , Observe God's laws , and strive for to repent , Bear thou in mind these lines I shall unfold And prize them better far then pearl or gold . BEar thou in mind that Christ dy'd for thy since Upon the Cross , thy precious soul to win ; Be frequent still in reading of his word , Which cuts down since as with a 2 edg'd sword . COnsider well the bitter pains and death . Our Saviour Christ hath suffered on the earth Unto the Cross they nail'd his hands and feet , So for our sins he shed his blood most sweet . DEfer no time , but pray continually , Thy sins against the still for Vengeance cry : Pray to thee Lord thy sins may be forgiven , And that thy soul may live with Christ in heaven . ETernal God if it be thy blessed will , Comfort all those that now are sick or ill ; By Land or Sea relieve them of their pain , Restore them to their former health again . FOrbear to swear you children that are young , You parents pray correct them for their wrong , And bring them up in fear to serve the Lord , For fear he scourge them with his heavy Rod . GReat oaths in vain too many people swear , The Lord in pieces wilfully they tear : Strange imprecations they too common use , With such delights they do themselves abuse . HOw many false reports abroad do fly , People likewise are given much to lie : Likewise dissemble so with one another , We cannot tell how for to trust our Brother . IN many places people sudden die , Others again soar sick in bed do lie , Lord give them grace in time for to repent , And for their grievous sins for to lament . KEep thou in mind the Judgement day will come , when thou shalt answer for what thou hast done , While thou remainest here on the earth , Therefore prepare thee for the hour of death . LEt not malicious thoughts possess thy breast , Nor wicked actions in thy conscience rest ; In any case do not thy Neighbour wrong , Neither by thought , word deed , not yet by tongue . MAny there be that follow drunkenness , and make themselves far worse then any beast And many when that they should go to Church , Do in and Alehouse or a Tavern lurch . NOr do they heed , but spend their means in vain which should their wives & children maintain , Until they have consum'd their whole estate , And ne'r repent before it be too late . Others there be likewise does rob and kill , And many a man and woman's blood do spill ; For money to maintain their grievous since , And think not on the errors they run in . PIty it is they have no better care , But bring their souls and bodies in a snare ; Their bodies here to die in woeful shame , Their souls to suffer in eternal flame . QUire thou after Gods , word , which is so pure also the Gospel which will still endure ; Seek thou the place whereas thy Soul may rest , among the Angels whom the Lord hath blessed . REgard not thou the since of covetousness , Seek for to right the widow & the farther Help to relieve those that in prison lie , Also remember man that thou must die . SEt not thy mind upon Adultery , But from the beauty of lewd women fly ; We find in Scripture that it is forbid , Then mind it well when as you do it read . TAke heed that you do not false measures use , Which such deceit do not thy self abuse ; Too many use it now , the more is the pity , In every place , in Country , Town , and City . UNdone are many by this false deceit , Let me advice such people , and entreat To leave it off , and mark what I shall say , 'Twill rise against them at the Judgement day . WHen thou before thy maker shall appear , To give account , and eke thy self to clear If well thou'st done , then happy shalt thou be , And live with Christ in joy eternally . XAmple take I p [ r ] ay both old and young , By these few lines that's penned in this song Bear it in your mind I pray now every one , And think on it when I am dead and gone . YOung-men & maidens love your parents dear Honour them still , and seek the Lord to fear , Oh mind your Bibles more than all your Pride , And then besure the Lord will be your guide . ZEalous and faithful to each other prove , Live not in hatred , but in perfect love ; Peace is a virtue passes gold so pure , Lord grant it may among us still endure . & Now at last for to conclude and end , These lines to all true Christians I do send , To read them o're , and of them take a view What here is pen'd you'l find for to be true . London . Printed by and for A.M. and [ sold by the ] the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London Bridge [ . ] A Lesson for all True CHRISTIANS . Which being well observed by old and young , And practised with hand and heart , and tongue : Great comfort in it at the last you'll find , Then mark it well , and bear it in your mind . Tune of , The Letter for a Christian Family . By J.C. ALl you whose minds be high & heavenly bent , Observe God's laws , and strive for to repent , Bear thou in mind these lines I shall unfold And prize them better far then pearl or gold . BEar thou in mind that Christ dy'd for thy since Upon the Cross , thy precious soul to win ; Be frequent still in reading of his word , Which cuts down since as with a 2 edg'd sword . COnsider well the bitter pains and death . Our Saviour Christ hath suffered on the earth Unto the Cross they nail'd his hands and feet , So for our sins he shed his blood most sweet . DEfer no time , but pray continually , Thy sins against the still for Vengeance cry : Pray to thee Lord thy sins may be forgiven , And that thy soul may live with Christ in heaven . ETernal God if it be thy blessed will , Comfort all those that now are sick or ill ; By Land or Sea relieve them of their pain , Restore them to their former health again . FOrbear to swear you children that are young , You parents pray correct them for their wrong , And bring them up in fear to serve the Lord , For fear he scourge them with his heavy Rod . GReat oaths in vain too many people swear , The Lord in pieces wilfully they tear : Strange imprecations they too common use , With such delights they do themselves abuse . HOw many false reports abroad do fly , People likewise are given much to lie : Likewise dissemble so with one another , We cannot tell how for to trust our Brother . IN many places people sudden die , Others again soar sick in bed do lie , Lord give them grace in time for to repent , And for their grievous sins for to lament . KEep thou in mind the Judgement day will come , when thou shalt answer for what thou hast done , While thou remainest here on the earth , Therefore prepare thee for the hour of death . LEt not malicious thoughts possess thy breast , Nor wicked actions in thy conscience rest ; In any case do not thy Neighbour wrong , Neither by thought , word deed , not yet by tongue . MAny there be that follow drunkenness , and make themselves far worse then any beast And many when that they should go to Church , Do in and Alehouse or a Tavern lurch . NOr do they heed , but spend their means in vain which should their wives & children maintain , Until they have consum'd their whole estate , And ne'r repent before it be too late . Others there be likewise does rob and kill , And many a man and woman's blood do spill ; For money to maintain their grievous since , And think not on the errors they run in . PIty it is they have no better care , But bring their souls and bodies in a snare ; Their bodies here to die in woeful shame , Their souls to suffer in eternal flame . QUire thou after Gods , word , which is so pure also the Gospel which will still endure ; Seek thou the place whereas thy Soul may rest , among the Angels whom the Lord hath blessed . REgard not thou the since of covetousness , Seek for to right the widow & the farther Help to relieve those that in prison lie , Also remember man that thou must die . SEt not thy mind upon Adultery , But from the beauty of lewd women fly ; We find in Scripture that it is forbid , Then mind it well when as you do it read . TAke heed that you do not false measures use , Which such deceit do not thy self abuse ; Too many use it now , the more is the pity , In every place , in Country , Town , and City . UNdone are many by this false deceit , Let me advice such people , and entreat To leave it off , and mark what I shall say , 'Twill rise against them at the Judgement day . WHen thou before thy maker shall appear , To give account , and eke thy self to clear If well thou'st done , then happy shalt thou be , And live with Christ in joy eternally . XAmple take I p [ r ] ay both old and young , By these few lines that's penned in this song Bear it in your mind I pray now every one , And think on it when I am dead and gone . YOung-men & maidens love your parents dear Honour them still , and seek the Lord to fear , Oh mind your Bibles more than all your Pride , And then besure the Lord will be your guide . ZEalous and faithful to each other prove , Live not in hatred , but in perfect love ; Peace is a virtue passes gold so pure , Lord grant it may among us still endure . & Now at last for to conclude and end , These lines to all true Christians I do send , To read them o're , and of them take a view What here is pen'd you'l find for to be true . London . Printed by and for A.M. and [ sold by the ] the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London Bridge [ . ] 