Loves tyrannic conquest . Love and Beauty have such power Sometime joys they do devour And those that of their power are tasting Sighing daily still are wasting . Tune of , Blush no redder than the morning . CUPID , leave thy Tyrannizing , Thou art still new pains devising , Pains too great to be Endured , Passed all hope's for to be Cured . Pains too great to be endured , Passed all hope's for to be cured Take some pity of my anguish Mind but how I sighs and languish , 'Tis your frowns my ruin tell me And what fate by Love befell me , 'Tis your frowns my ruin tell me , And what fate by love befell me . 'Twas the charms of conquering beauty That compel'd me to this duty , Which so strangely does enslave me That of sense it does bereave me , Which so strangely does enslave me That of sense it does bereave [ m ] e . 'Tis a most exceeding pity You should be so fair and pretty Yet so cruel to undo me And not send one smile unto me Yet so cruel to undo me , And not send one smile unto me . Here I perish with desire Burning in and endless fire Sighing like one discontented Unregarded , Unlamented . Sighing like one discontented , Unregarded , unlamented . Could I tell thee how I love thee And respect thee none above thee Thou wouldst count my tongue too lavish So with charms my heart to ravish , Thou wouldst count my tongue too lavish So with charms thy heart to ravish . Never was a soul so wounded Or a reason so confounded As to cover its own ruin Hugging what is its undoing As to covet its own ruin , Hugging what is its undoing . But alas it soar does grieve me That mine eyes should so deceive me Thus to bring me to a Fetter Love's a Chain , and 'tis no better Thus to bring me to a Fetter , Love's a chain , and 'tis no better . You that are with joys surrounded Pity me with love so wounded That I know not how to ease me Nothing else but death can please me . That I know not how to ease me , Nothing else but death can please me . When the Nymph herd him complaining Of his passion strongly reigning She was mov'd with grief to hear him And resolved to get near him , She was mov'd with grief to hear him And resolved to get near him . With a sighs and mournful wishes She bestow'd on him some kisses mourn no more [ r ] e quoth she , for ever Thee to please I will endeavour Mourn no more quoth she for ever Thee to please I will endeavour . She of whom thou stood'st in fear on Now will prove thy only dear one In my arms I will embrace thee In my bosom I will place thee in my arms I will embrace thee in my bosom etc It wounds my soul that I should grieve thee Now I vow I ne'r will leave thee Then my dearest doe not doubt me For I cannot live without thee then my dearest doe not doubt more for I cannot live without thee . Printed for C. Hussey at the Flower-de-luce in Little Brittain . Loves tyrannic conquest . Love and Beauty have such power Sometime joys they do devour And those that of their power are tasting Sighing daily still are wasting . Tune of , Blush no redder than the morning . CUPID , leave thy Tyrannizing , Thou art still new pains devising , Pains too great to be Endured , Passed all hope's for to be Cured . Pains too great to be endured , Passed all hope's for to be cured Take some pity of my anguish Mind but how I sighs and languish , 'Tis your frowns my ruin tell me And what fate by Love befell me , 'Tis your frowns my ruin tell me , And what fate by love befell me . 'Twas the charms of conquering beauty That compel'd me to this duty , Which so strangely does enslave me That of sense it does bereave me , Which so strangely does enslave me That of sense it does bereave [ m ] e . 'Tis a most exceeding pity You should be so fair and pretty Yet so cruel to undo me And not send one smile unto me Yet so cruel to undo me , And not send one smile unto me . Here I perish with desire Burning in and endless fire Sighing like one discontented Unregarded , Unlamented . Sighing like one discontented , Unregarded , unlamented . Could I tell thee how I love thee And respect thee none above thee Thou wouldst count my tongue too lavish So with charms my heart to ravish , Thou wouldst count my tongue too lavish So with charms thy heart to ravish . Never was a soul so wounded Or a reason so confounded As to cover its own ruin Hugging what is its undoing As to covet its own ruin , Hugging what is its undoing . But alas it soar does grieve me That mine eyes should so deceive me Thus to bring me to a Fetter Love's a Chain , and 'tis no better Thus to bring me to a Fetter , Love's a chain , and 'tis no better . You that are with joys surrounded Pity me with love so wounded That I know not how to ease me Nothing else but death can please me . That I know not how to ease me , Nothing else but death can please me . When the Nymph herd him complaining Of his passion strongly reigning She was mov'd with grief to hear him And resolved to get near him , She was mov'd with grief to hear him And resolved to get near him . With a sighs and mournful wishes She bestow'd on him some kisses mourn no more [ r ] e quoth she , for ever Thee to please I will endeavour Mourn no more quoth she for ever Thee to please I will endeavour . She of whom thou stood'st in fear on Now will prove thy only dear one In my arms I will embrace thee In my bosom I will place thee in my arms I will embrace thee in my bosom etc It wounds my soul that I should grieve thee Now I vow I ne'r will leave thee Then my dearest doe not doubt me For I cannot live without thee then my dearest doe not doubt more for I cannot live without thee . Printed for C. Hussey at the Flower-de-luce in Little Brittain . 