THE lovesick Maid of Waping Her Complaint for want of Apple-Pye . This Maid was in such deep distress , wanting a gamesome Lad , She cry'd for want of Happiness that other Lovers had . Tune of , Jenny Gin , Fair one let me in , Busy fame , Heigh boys up go we . YOu that enjoy your hearts delight , take pity now on me , Whom foe [ r ] tune seeks to despite , and bring to misery : But yet I will a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave and for want of Apple-py . Now I am seventeen years of age , methinks it is high time Love's fiery passion to all wage , now I am in my prime , I must , I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny ; For I sighs my self into my Grave and for want of Apple-py . O that I play'd so much the fool as in times past I did ; I might have gone to Venus School , but fortune did forbid : And now I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , Foe [ r ] I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple-py . When George the Goldsmith came to me my beauty he admir'd ; And like a fool I did deny what of me he desir'd : But now a Husband I will a Husband have no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple-py . When Valentine the Vintner came that handsome bonny Lad , And to deny his fiery flame I think I was quite mad : But now I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple py . Could I but now a Husband have , how happy should I be , Oh then should I be brisk and brave , and live in jollity : But the pangs of love does me oppress , tho' fate does me deny ; And it is the only happiness to taste of Apple-py . Then John the Joyner came to me , whose charms were half divine ; He told me he could gamesome be , and understood to join : But alas I must a husband have that will both hug and kiss , Else I shall pine into my Grave for want of hit and miss . At last a Taylor neat and fine , with Bodkin and his Needle , He came to gain the love of mine , but him I thought too feeble : For I must have a thundering lad my passion to allay , Or else I surely shall go mad ; brisk youngsters come away . A brisk young Cobbler to me came , who worked in a Stall ; He said he burned with fiery flame , but I did not like his Aul : No , no , 'tis not a cobbling fool must be a match for me , For I full well must like his Tool that must my Husband be . And after they were come and gone , to me then came a Glover , He looked like a feeble one , not fit to be a Lover : At my denial he look'd pale , and a passion he was in ; I bid him hold his babbling tale , for he should not prick my skin . But then the Blacksmith to me came , whose sighed I did despise ; He lov'd , but I abhor'd the same , tho' he for pity cries : O let me not these pains endure , but grant to me some ease , Except I can some help procure , I die of Loves disease . At last the Sailor gent and neat to me a wooing came ; And he I thought was most complete to ease my fiery flame : He gave to me such sweet discourse I could him not deny , My stubborn heart then felt remorse , and he gave me Apple-py . THE lovesick Maid of Waping Her Complaint for want of Apple-Pye . This Maid was in such deep distress , wanting a gamesome Lad , She cry'd for want of Happiness that other Lovers had . Tune of , Jenny Gin , Fair one let me in , Busy fame , Heigh boys up go we . YOu that enjoy your hearts delight , take pity now on me , Whom foe [ r ] tune seeks to despite , and bring to misery : But yet I will a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave and for want of Apple-py . Now I am seventeen years of age , methinks it is high time Love's fiery passion to all wage , now I am in my prime , I must , I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny ; For I sighs my self into my Grave and for want of Apple-py . O that I play'd so much the fool as in times past I did ; I might have gone to Venus School , but fortune did forbid : And now I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , Foe [ r ] I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple-py . When George the Goldsmith came to me my beauty he admir'd ; And like a fool I did deny what of me he desir'd : But now a Husband I will a Husband have no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple-py . When Valentine the Vintner came that handsome bonny Lad , And to deny his fiery flame I think I was quite mad : But now I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple py . Could I but now a Husband have , how happy should I be , Oh then should I be brisk and brave , and live in jollity : But the pangs of love does me oppress , tho' fate does me deny ; And it is the only happiness to taste of Apple-py . Then John the Joyner came to me , whose charms were half divine ; He told me he could gamesome be , and understood to join : But alas I must a husband have that will both hug and kiss , Else I shall pine into my Grave for want of hit and miss . At last a Taylor neat and fine , with Bodkin and his Needle , He came to gain the love of mine , but him I thought too feeble : For I must have a thundering lad my passion to allay , Or else I surely shall go mad ; brisk youngsters come away . A brisk young Cobbler to me came , who worked in a Stall ; He said he burned with fiery flame , but I did not like his Aul : No , no , 'tis not a cobbling fool must be a match for me , For I full well must like his Tool that must my Husband be . And after they were come and gone , to me then came a Glover , He looked like a feeble one , not fit to be a Lover : At my denial he look'd pale , and a passion he was in ; I bid him hold his babbling tale , for he should not prick my skin . But then the Blacksmith to me came , whose sighed I did despise ; He lov'd , but I abhor'd the same , tho' he for pity cries : O let me not these pains endure , but grant to me some ease , Except I can some help procure , I die of Loves disease . At last the Sailor gent and neat to me a wooing came ; And he I thought was most complete to ease my fiery flame : He gave to me such sweet discourse I could him not deny , My stubborn heart then felt remorse , and he gave me Apple-py . 