THE LONDON Lasses Lamentation : OR , Her Fear she should never be MARRIED . To the Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . ALas ! I am in a Rage , and bitterly weep and cry , Because I'm nineteen years of age , yet cannot be married not I . No Gallant regards my moan , for Love I am like to die , It grieves my Heart to lie alone , yet cannot be married not I . Mine , Eyes do's like Fountains flow , as I on my Pillow lie , There's none knows what I undergo , yet cannot be married not I . There's Margery , Sue , and Kate , has Husbands with them to lie , Yet none regards my wretched state , yet cannot be married not I . Youngmen I must tell you true , I scorn to report a Lie , I am both fair and handsome too , yet cannot be married not I . My Father is grey and old , and surely e'er long will die , And though he'll leave me all his Gold , I cannot , etc Oh! this my Grief and Care , the which I cannot pass by , To think I am my Father's Heir , yet cannot , etc I am in Distraction hurl'd , and do for a Husband cry , It's more to me than all the World , yet cannot , etc I am a poor Lovesick Girl , and ready with Grief to Die , I proffer'd Jewels , Gold and Pearl , yet cannot , etc I Silks I am still array'd , and e'ery new Fashion buy , Because I am loath to die a Maid , yet cannot , etc As fine as the Queen of May , I flourish with gallantry , I wear my Topknot e'ery day , yet cannot , etc A paint , and I powder still , to tempt all that I come nigh ; But yet let me do what I will , yet cannot , etc There's never a Lass in Town , for Beauty can me come nigh : But Fortune she has sent a Frown , I cannot be married not I . The Gold which I have in store , I valve no more than Clay , I'd give all , had I ten times more , so I might be married to day . THE LONDON Lasses Lamentation : OR , Her Fear she should never be MARRIED . To the Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . ALas ! I am in a Rage , and bitterly weep and cry , Because I'm nineteen years of age , yet cannot be married not I . No Gallant regards my moan , for Love I am like to die , It grieves my Heart to lie alone , yet cannot be married not I . Mine , Eyes do's like Fountains flow , as I on my Pillow lie , There's none knows what I undergo , yet cannot be married not I . There's Margery , Sue , and Kate , has Husbands with them to lie , Yet none regards my wretched state , yet cannot be married not I . Youngmen I must tell you true , I scorn to report a Lie , I am both fair and handsome too , yet cannot be married not I . My Father is grey and old , and surely e'er long will die , And though he'll leave me all his Gold , I cannot , etc Oh! this my Grief and Care , the which I cannot pass by , To think I am my Father's Heir , yet cannot , etc I am in Distraction hurl'd , and do for a Husband cry , It's more to me than all the World , yet cannot , etc I am a poor Lovesick Girl , and ready with Grief to Die , I proffer'd Jewels , Gold and Pearl , yet cannot , etc I Silks I am still array'd , and e'ery new Fashion buy , Because I am loath to die a Maid , yet cannot , etc As fine as the Queen of May , I flourish with gallantry , I wear my Topknot e'ery day , yet cannot , etc A paint , and I powder still , to tempt all that I come nigh ; But yet let me do what I will , yet cannot , etc There's never a Lass in Town , for Beauty can me come nigh : But Fortune she has sent a Frown , I cannot be married not I . The Gold which I have in store , I valve no more than Clay , I'd give all , had I ten times more , so I might be married to day . 