The Loves of Jockey and Jenny : OR , The Scotch Wedding . A most pleasant New Song . AH ! Jenny Gin , your Eyn do kill , you'l let me tell my pain ; Guide Faith I'm lov'd against my will , but wou'd not break my Chain : I eance was call'd a bonny Lad , till that fair face of yours , Betray'd the freedom once I had , and all my blither hours . And now , wey's me like winter looks , my faded showering ey'n ; And on the banks of shadowing Brooks , I pass the tedious time : I'm call the streams that glide soft on , to witness if they see , On all the banks they glide along , so true a swain as me . Jockey . Wey's me , can Jenny doubt my love , when au the Lasses see , That I done slight each mikle Dove , and languish but for thee ? I'se have Five Acres of good Land , both Sheep and muckle Kine ; And au for Jenny to Command , sweet Jenny then be mine . Jenny . Wey's me when Jockey kens my store he's will repent his pain ; And au his much suit give o're , poor Jenny he'l disdain , Jockey . Now by this blasted Oak I swear , I'se cannot choose but moan : Does Jenny think I'se love for Geer , ne 'tis her self alone . I'm have a pail to milk the Ewes , two Dishes and four Spoon ; Beside Cheese-Fats the Curds to scrue a Pot and two new Shoes : A Ladle , Spit and Dripping-Pan , two Stools and one Straw-Bed ; On which poor Jockey would full fain get Jennys Maidenhead . Jenny Nay if mine Jockey be so stor'd , we's ne no more to buy ; Geud faith I'se have a muckle hoard , that will the rest supply : I'se have two Cheeses made of whey , a Pudding Tub and Pan ; To fry Tripe on the Wadding-day , if Jockey be the Man. Geud faith , since Jenny's pleas'd to bless her Lovesick humble Swain ; I'se by this shade do now profess , I'se constant will remain : Yea , byth agreement now I'se swear , I'se auways loving prove : So that each Lass shall envy her , to see how well I'se love . If Jockeys Riches will not do , thy Jenny will not fail , To take her Kettle and go Brew a crag of Nappy Ale : A strike of Malt with pain and care , well Houswiv'd may do well ; 'Tis stock enough for we poor Folk , that Brew good Ale to fell . Jenny . Then let us gang to muckle John , that he may tie the Knot ; That I your joys may hasten on , since , 'tis kind Jockeys Lot With au his heart Jockey will gang , and happy shall he be : To hug his Jenny au night long , in much mirth and glee . Then good sir , Donkin , by your leave , a Wadding we must have ; Dost see the Skippets and Belloons , with Lads and Lasses brave ? I'se Jockey take thee Jenny true , to be my wadded Wife ; Forsake my Loons and Lubber-Loons , to please thee all my life . FINIS . Printed for P. Bro [ oh ] ksby , at the Golden - Ball , in West-smithfield . The Loves of Jockey and Jenny : OR , The Scotch Wedding . A most pleasant New Song . AH ! Jenny Gin , your Eyn do kill , you'l let me tell my pain ; Guide Faith I'm lov'd against my will , but wou'd not break my Chain : I eance was call'd a bonny Lad , till that fair face of yours , Betray'd the freedom once I had , and all my blither hours . And now , wey's me like winter looks , my faded showering ey'n ; And on the banks of shadowing Brooks , I pass the tedious time : I'm call the streams that glide soft on , to witness if they see , On all the banks they glide along , so true a swain as me . Jockey . Wey's me , can Jenny doubt my love , when au the Lasses see , That I done slight each mikle Dove , and languish but for thee ? I'se have Five Acres of good Land , both Sheep and muckle Kine ; And au for Jenny to Command , sweet Jenny then be mine . Jenny . Wey's me when Jockey kens my store he's will repent his pain ; And au his much suit give o're , poor Jenny he'l disdain , Jockey . Now by this blasted Oak I swear , I'se cannot choose but moan : Does Jenny think I'se love for Geer , ne 'tis her self alone . I'm have a pail to milk the Ewes , two Dishes and four Spoon ; Beside Cheese-Fats the Curds to scrue a Pot and two new Shoes : A Ladle , Spit and Dripping-Pan , two Stools and one Straw-Bed ; On which poor Jockey would full fain get Jennys Maidenhead . Jenny Nay if mine Jockey be so stor'd , we's ne no more to buy ; Geud faith I'se have a muckle hoard , that will the rest supply : I'se have two Cheeses made of whey , a Pudding Tub and Pan ; To fry Tripe on the Wadding-day , if Jockey be the Man. Geud faith , since Jenny's pleas'd to bless her Lovesick humble Swain ; I'se by this shade do now profess , I'se constant will remain : Yea , byth agreement now I'se swear , I'se auways loving prove : So that each Lass shall envy her , to see how well I'se love . If Jockeys Riches will not do , thy Jenny will not fail , To take her Kettle and go Brew a crag of Nappy Ale : A strike of Malt with pain and care , well Houswiv'd may do well ; 'Tis stock enough for we poor Folk , that Brew good Ale to fell . Jenny . Then let us gang to muckle John , that he may tie the Knot ; That I your joys may hasten on , since , 'tis kind Jockeys Lot With au his heart Jockey will gang , and happy shall he be : To hug his Jenny au night long , in much mirth and glee . Then good sir , Donkin , by your leave , a Wadding we must have ; Dost see the Skippets and Belloons , with Lads and Lasses brave ? I'se Jockey take thee Jenny true , to be my wadded Wife ; Forsake my Loons and Lubber-Loons , to please thee all my life . FINIS . Printed for P. Bro [ oh ] ksby , at the Golden - Ball , in West-smithfield . 