The Lovers Battle , Being a soar Combat fought between Mars and Venus , at a place call [ worser ] Cunney Castle , under Belly-hill . Bold Mars like to a warrior stout great brags did make in field But Venus she gave him the rout . and forc't him for to yield , Then Mars drew out his Rapier strong thinking to win the day But Venus charg'd him so soar he was glad he god away . The Tune is , The Chorals delight . AS I by chance abroad was walking , under a pleasant shadow tree , There Mars and Venus I herd talking not thinking I had been so nigh , Then I drew near and sat down by them They not thinking I had been so nigh them , For to hear their complementing And to see some jovial sport How Mars fair Venus there did court . Said Mars I am the god of battle I and Master of the field , I love to hear the Musquets rattle I am well armed with lance & shield , O I can make the World to wonder , And break the bans of peace asunder , I can conquer Towns and Nations , Be they ne're so stout or strong Bold Mars can lay them all along . The stoutest he which ever drew Rapier if Mars do meet him in the field : Though like a warrior he does vapor I care not for his sphere or shield , For I can make loud Cannons thunder And I can cut his Troops asunder , If my Granado's I let fly sir , I will make the proudest foe to yield Or else by Mars he die in field . There is no Town which in this Nation no Hall , nor Tower , Castle , nor Fort , But I can soon make alteration if they delight with me to sport , For the strongest Castle , Town or Tower I can conquer in and hour If close siege I once do lay too't , My men will to me stoutly stand And soon the same we can command . BOld Mars I think you do but vapor a challenge with you I will make A Castle I know defies your Rapier your men and you cannot it take , If that you please but for to try it Your men and you must dearly buy it E're you do gain the Fort or Castle , You will be forc't for to retreat For 'tis three to one you will be beatrice . Venus come show to me that favour , to let me know where this castle does stand I will not rest till wone I have her and make her yield at my command , This Castle I pray thee let me know it And the ready way to go unto it , And I will thank you for your pain , For close siege I will lay out right And I vow to storm it Day or Night . The ready way unto this Castle I can direct you very well , For through thigh alley you must rattle if I the truth to you must tell , Hard by Bum-lane if you do but mind it Under Belly hill there you may find it This Castle is well fortifi'd If you against it siege do lay It is three to one you'r beatrice away . Then in a rage Mars drew his Rap [ i ] er and vowed this castle he would take , So up thigh alley he did vapor , and towards bum-lane he strait did make , Under belly-hill he found a centre Where his lance soon did enter , Clap to clap to Mars then cry'd , And close siege with his men he lay But in the end bold Mars did lose the Day . For Venus boldly did so charge him with service hight in open field , By her valour stout she almost scar'd him which made him and his men to yield , How now bold Mars stout Venus cry'd The battle is mine who dare deny it I thought bold Mars you did but vapor , For no such courage I can see So she kicked Mars out of her centere . When Mars he see he was so beaten he took his leave with Venus fair , In a rage these words he fell a speaking my lance is spoyl'd I greatly fear , Farewell thigh lane where I first did enter Farewell bum alley and belly hill centre , And farewell Venus Castle fair , I never will come at thee again For I have lost my labour and my pain . By T.R. The Lovers Battle , Being a soar Combat fought between Mars and Venus , at a place call [ worser ] Cunney Castle , under Belly-hill . Bold Mars like to a warrior stout great brags did make in field But Venus she gave him the rout . and forc't him for to yield , Then Mars drew out his Rapier strong thinking to win the day But Venus charg'd him so soar he was glad he god away . The Tune is , The Chorals delight . AS I by chance abroad was walking , under a pleasant shadow tree , There Mars and Venus I herd talking not thinking I had been so nigh , Then I drew near and sat down by them They not thinking I had been so nigh them , For to hear their complementing And to see some jovial sport How Mars fair Venus there did court . Said Mars I am the god of battle I and Master of the field , I love to hear the Musquets rattle I am well armed with lance & shield , O I can make the World to wonder , And break the bans of peace asunder , I can conquer Towns and Nations , Be they ne're so stout or strong Bold Mars can lay them all along . The stoutest he which ever drew Rapier if Mars do meet him in the field : Though like a warrior he does vapor I care not for his sphere or shield , For I can make loud Cannons thunder And I can cut his Troops asunder , If my Granado's I let fly sir , I will make the proudest foe to yield Or else by Mars he die in field . There is no Town which in this Nation no Hall , nor Tower , Castle , nor Fort , But I can soon make alteration if they delight with me to sport , For the strongest Castle , Town or Tower I can conquer in and hour If close siege I once do lay too't , My men will to me stoutly stand And soon the same we can command . BOld Mars I think you do but vapor a challenge with you I will make A Castle I know defies your Rapier your men and you cannot it take , If that you please but for to try it Your men and you must dearly buy it E're you do gain the Fort or Castle , You will be forc't for to retreat For 'tis three to one you will be beatrice . Venus come show to me that favour , to let me know where this castle does stand I will not rest till wone I have her and make her yield at my command , This Castle I pray thee let me know it And the ready way to go unto it , And I will thank you for your pain , For close siege I will lay out right And I vow to storm it Day or Night . The ready way unto this Castle I can direct you very well , For through thigh alley you must rattle if I the truth to you must tell , Hard by Bum-lane if you do but mind it Under Belly hill there you may find it This Castle is well fortifi'd If you against it siege do lay It is three to one you'r beatrice away . Then in a rage Mars drew his Rap [ i ] er and vowed this castle he would take , So up thigh alley he did vapor , and towards bum-lane he strait did make , Under belly-hill he found a centre Where his lance soon did enter , Clap to clap to Mars then cry'd , And close siege with his men he lay But in the end bold Mars did lose the Day . For Venus boldly did so charge him with service hight in open field , By her valour stout she almost scar'd him which made him and his men to yield , How now bold Mars stout Venus cry'd The battle is mine who dare deny it I thought bold Mars you did but vapor , For no such courage I can see So she kicked Mars out of her centere . When Mars he see he was so beaten he took his leave with Venus fair , In a rage these words he fell a speaking my lance is spoyl'd I greatly fear , Farewell thigh lane where I first did enter Farewell bum alley and belly hill centre , And farewell Venus Castle fair , I never will come at thee again For I have lost my labour and my pain . By T.R. 