The loving Chamber-Maid . Or , Vindication of a departed Maidenhead . Being the Art to lie with a Man and yet be a Virgin . To a New Tune Maidens ---- but Ah what is a maid I pray And infant Female that scarce views the day , For e're the things we Virgins call aspire To 13 years , they feel a strange desire : Longing for what themselves can scarcely tell , Which strange desire of make their bellies swell And then what 'tis they know too fatal well . SHut the door after me , pull off the Boul , I'le blow in the Candle the best of you all , And all the World shall ne'r me persuade , But that I'm a maid , Ay a very good maid . I ne'r lay with any unless it were one , And yet I dare venture or look at the Sun , And all the world etc I had but one small one , what am I the worse I ne'r gave it Suck but I put it to Nurse , And all the world etc Perhaps 'twas my Master that god it , what then ? My Mistress ne'r knew on't nor none of our men , And all the world shall ne'r me persuade , But that I'm a maid Ay a very good maid . For I can pass currant and fell it again , To some Fopp o'th City who ne'r yet was in , And all the world Although my Maidenhead sporting took flight , With heaving and thrusting I bid it good night , Yea all the world And if I be clap'd too then what of all that , Some Country Clown will be baiting his Cat. And all the world This a known Maxim from Ages long track'd , A Chamber-Maids simple unless she be crack'd . Then all the world For she is not fitting good counsel to keep , When Light-heels her Mistress with Gallants does sleep , Then all the world Though I shou'd my Mother's black Legacy pawn , To some doting Broker for rigging of Lawn . Yet all the world For though the old dotard should flutter a while He could not the fashion of Margery spoil . Then all the world Nay though I shou'd deal with a blade of the Town A Squire to Venus should tumble me down . And though he long struggl'd yet none should persuade But that I'm etc For she's a mean Strumpet that knows not the tricks , To try with one Maidenheads dozens of ------ Then all the World shall ne'r me persuade , But that etc The famous Matronas of Whetstone will tell That they can a Maidenhead sixty times fell , Then all the world When Cook-maids by Prentices oft are beguil'd And pack'd in the Country when pregnant with child . And after delivery none them persuades But that they are maidens , pass currant for maids . Once having a smatch to trading they fallen , Set up with a Maidenhead common to all . And keep open Warehouse , then none shall persuade , etc Ther's none above fifteen but if they'r put to't , Although they deny you will willingly do't . Therefore no Gallant shall e're me persuade , but that as maids go I'm a very good maid . Printed for Phil. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . The loving Chamber-Maid . Or , Vindication of a departed Maidenhead . Being the Art to lie with a Man and yet be a Virgin . To a New Tune Maidens ---- but Ah what is a maid I pray And infant Female that scarce views the day , For e're the things we Virgins call aspire To 13 years , they feel a strange desire : Longing for what themselves can scarcely tell , Which strange desire of make their bellies swell And then what 'tis they know too fatal well . SHut the door after me , pull off the Boul , I'le blow in the Candle the best of you all , And all the World shall ne'r me persuade , But that I'm a maid , Ay a very good maid . I ne'r lay with any unless it were one , And yet I dare venture or look at the Sun , And all the world etc I had but one small one , what am I the worse I ne'r gave it Suck but I put it to Nurse , And all the world etc Perhaps 'twas my Master that god it , what then ? My Mistress ne'r knew on't nor none of our men , And all the world shall ne'r me persuade , But that I'm a maid Ay a very good maid . For I can pass currant and fell it again , To some Fopp o'th City who ne'r yet was in , And all the world Although my Maidenhead sporting took flight , With heaving and thrusting I bid it good night , Yea all the world And if I be clap'd too then what of all that , Some Country Clown will be baiting his Cat. And all the world This a known Maxim from Ages long track'd , A Chamber-Maids simple unless she be crack'd . Then all the world For she is not fitting good counsel to keep , When Light-heels her Mistress with Gallants does sleep , Then all the world Though I shou'd my Mother's black Legacy pawn , To some doting Broker for rigging of Lawn . Yet all the world For though the old dotard should flutter a while He could not the fashion of Margery spoil . Then all the world Nay though I shou'd deal with a blade of the Town A Squire to Venus should tumble me down . And though he long struggl'd yet none should persuade But that I'm etc For she's a mean Strumpet that knows not the tricks , To try with one Maidenheads dozens of ------ Then all the World shall ne'r me persuade , But that etc The famous Matronas of Whetstone will tell That they can a Maidenhead sixty times fell , Then all the world When Cook-maids by Prentices oft are beguil'd And pack'd in the Country when pregnant with child . And after delivery none them persuades But that they are maidens , pass currant for maids . Once having a smatch to trading they fallen , Set up with a Maidenhead common to all . And keep open Warehouse , then none shall persuade , etc Ther's none above fifteen but if they'r put to't , Although they deny you will willingly do't . Therefore no Gallant shall e're me persuade , but that as maids go I'm a very good maid . Printed for Phil. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . 