LOVES POWER . Behold the powerful Charms of Love , With Captives young and Old , And nothing can their Flames remove , That are in Cupids Fold : 'Till soft'ning Kisses heal the Wound Caus'd by Loves Fiery Dart , Then Pleasures Flow , and joys abound , And more Inflames the Heart . To the Tune of , Moggies jealousy . TWo Lovers by chance they did meet , possessed with a mutual flame , And now you shall hear how they greet , for I will declare the same : Quoth he , thou hast sparks in thine eyes , that do kindle in me such a fire , I comforts shall clearly despise , if you do not grant me my desire . O Sir , quoth this pretty young Maid , let me know what 'tis you would have , For you need not at all be afraid , I will grant what in reason you crave : For I ne'r in my life could deny , what a man did in Justice require , But you and I soon shall comply , and I'le warrant I'le quench thy loves fire . With that he began to draw nearer , and gave her and amorous Kiss , He said , he lov'd dearer and dearer , and longed to taste of the bliss : Quoth he , 'tis the Babes in thine eyes , that set my poor heart all on fire , Then do not thy Lover despise , but grant me my wish and desire . If thou art so earnest to dally , come make use of time while you may , Thy skill I will not undervalue , then prithee Love let's to the play ; Methinks thou art somewhat too tedious , 'tis time that we should have been nigher , To linger it seems to be grievous , I'le warrant i'le quench thy loves fire . THe Young man supposing her greedy , fell eagerly unto the sport , He found she was wanting and needy , and needless it was for to Cour But as they were hugging together , she cry'd Oh , come nigher and nigher , His heart was as light as a Feather , and he had both his wish and desire . The Damsel was mightily pleased , and kissed him a thousand times o're , Quoth she , now my sorrows are eased , but I must have a little touch more ; Oh lie down a while for to rest thee , that I may enjoy my desire , I hope that the fates they will bless thee , I quench , but thou kindlest my fire . No longer he stood there delaying , but stoutly he fell to't again , Where he gave a push at their playing , the Damsel returned him ten : For she grew more eager and eager , her eyes they did sparkle like fire , Quoth he , I do own I'm the weaker , but still I enjoy my desire . Quoth she , now how should I be served , if thou shouldst have god me with Child , But 'tis no more then I deserved , for I was a little too wild : I thought long till I did begin it , and burned with a fervent desire , What pleasure I felt in one minute , adds fuel to amorous Fire . The youngman began for tyre , and his Cudgels began to lay down , Which made the young Damsel admire , and straight she began for to frown : Quoth he , I have done what is fit , no reason can more require , But her brows then upon him she knit , and she still did want her desire . Then young men provide and be lusty , again you do come to be try'd , For Maidens look sour and crusty , when their wants cannot well be supply'd : But 'twas and Old Proverb I herd , though Men burned with amorous ire , That Damsels when once they come near , could quench their most vigorous Fire . LOVES POWER . Behold the powerful Charms of Love , With Captives young and Old , And nothing can their Flames remove , That are in Cupids Fold : 'Till soft'ning Kisses heal the Wound Caus'd by Loves Fiery Dart , Then Pleasures Flow , and joys abound , And more Inflames the Heart . To the Tune of , Moggies jealousy . TWo Lovers by chance they did meet , possessed with a mutual flame , And now you shall hear how they greet , for I will declare the same : Quoth he , thou hast sparks in thine eyes , that do kindle in me such a fire , I comforts shall clearly despise , if you do not grant me my desire . O Sir , quoth this pretty young Maid , let me know what 'tis you would have , For you need not at all be afraid , I will grant what in reason you crave : For I ne'r in my life could deny , what a man did in Justice require , But you and I soon shall comply , and I'le warrant I'le quench thy loves fire . With that he began to draw nearer , and gave her and amorous Kiss , He said , he lov'd dearer and dearer , and longed to taste of the bliss : Quoth he , 'tis the Babes in thine eyes , that set my poor heart all on fire , Then do not thy Lover despise , but grant me my wish and desire . If thou art so earnest to dally , come make use of time while you may , Thy skill I will not undervalue , then prithee Love let's to the play ; Methinks thou art somewhat too tedious , 'tis time that we should have been nigher , To linger it seems to be grievous , I'le warrant i'le quench thy loves fire . THe Young man supposing her greedy , fell eagerly unto the sport , He found she was wanting and needy , and needless it was for to Cour But as they were hugging together , she cry'd Oh , come nigher and nigher , His heart was as light as a Feather , and he had both his wish and desire . The Damsel was mightily pleased , and kissed him a thousand times o're , Quoth she , now my sorrows are eased , but I must have a little touch more ; Oh lie down a while for to rest thee , that I may enjoy my desire , I hope that the fates they will bless thee , I quench , but thou kindlest my fire . No longer he stood there delaying , but stoutly he fell to't again , Where he gave a push at their playing , the Damsel returned him ten : For she grew more eager and eager , her eyes they did sparkle like fire , Quoth he , I do own I'm the weaker , but still I enjoy my desire . Quoth she , now how should I be served , if thou shouldst have god me with Child , But 'tis no more then I deserved , for I was a little too wild : I thought long till I did begin it , and burned with a fervent desire , What pleasure I felt in one minute , adds fuel to amorous Fire . The youngman began for tyre , and his Cudgels began to lay down , Which made the young Damsel admire , and straight she began for to frown : Quoth he , I have done what is fit , no reason can more require , But her brows then upon him she knit , and she still did want her desire . Then young men provide and be lusty , again you do come to be try'd , For Maidens look sour and crusty , when their wants cannot well be supply'd : But 'twas and Old Proverb I herd , though Men burned with amorous ire , That Damsels when once they come near , could quench their most vigorous Fire . 