The Loves of Damon and Sappho : OR : The Shepherd Crown'd with good success . You Lovers all that would successful be ; Be not too bashful , but in Love be free : Time but your passion and you'l never fail , There is a time when you'l be sure prevail . Maids will deny , its true , but soon will yield , If once you charge , they soon will loose the Field : Though they deny , it is but for a fashion , For when they do , they have the greatest passion . A pleasant New Playhouse Song , To the Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . COme turn thy Rosy face , leave blushing at me my Dear , Let's kindly now embrace , while Cupid does banish all fear : The Neighbouring Swains are gone to water their Flocks you see : And now we are all alone , in pleasure let us be free . I fancy now to be like Adam in Paradise ; Then let me taste the Tree of pleasures , and be not nice : For Beauty fades away , Old Age it will waste it quite : And time for none will stay , then let's pursue Delight . Under this Spreading Shade , all near to this Chrystial Spring , Our vows they shall be pay'd , while th' Birds do pleasantly sing : A yielding in your Eyes , my Sappho I do behold : Then let us act our joys , before that our passion's cold . THe blooming Spices smell , and Summer is in her Pride , Come let us sport a while , and Sappho shall be my Bride : With Flowers I'le Crown thy brow , thou shalt be Queen of the Field : Where all plenty does grow , O then my fair Sappho yield . See Earth Embroyder'd smiles , and all things do gay appear : While time our Love beguiles , come blush no more my dear : Let's search for joys unknown , and each of us trade in bliss : Fair Nymph we are alone , in you shall no more resist . Alas , my Damon , fie , do not a poor Nymph betray : A Virgin I will die , Diana I will obey : Then think , kind Swain , no more to flatter your self with Love : God Cupid I'le ne'r adore , nor rank him with powers above . O say not so my joy , for Beauty's ne'r made in vain : Not use is to destroy what the powers above ordain : Hark how the Birds invite , and Love with their Song do charm Alluring to delight , while thus we hold arm in arm . No more sweet Damon spare , my blushes that do arise : Oh fie kind Shepherd forbear , and do not a Maid surprise . I am too young for Love , and must not as yet be wone : O help you Powers above , or I shall be quite undone . In vain fair Nymph you strive , for passion will have its way : And he that did love contrive , in these shades you must obey . Alas , I resistance lose , and now can resist no more : What coy I did refuse , Loves pleasures do over-pow'r . Witness this pleasant Grove , I to denial was ben Had not you forced my love , but now I shall ne'r repen No , never my Dear , for we our mutual joys will increase : So happy we will be , and live in and endless peace . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Loves of Damon and Sappho : OR : The Shepherd Crown'd with good success . You Lovers all that would successful be ; Be not too bashful , but in Love be free : Time but your passion and you'l never fail , There is a time when you'l be sure prevail . Maids will deny , its true , but soon will yield , If once you charge , they soon will loose the Field : Though they deny , it is but for a fashion , For when they do , they have the greatest passion . A pleasant New Playhouse Song , To the Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . COme turn thy Rosy face , leave blushing at me my Dear , Let's kindly now embrace , while Cupid does banish all fear : The Neighbouring Swains are gone to water their Flocks you see : And now we are all alone , in pleasure let us be free . I fancy now to be like Adam in Paradise ; Then let me taste the Tree of pleasures , and be not nice : For Beauty fades away , Old Age it will waste it quite : And time for none will stay , then let's pursue Delight . Under this Spreading Shade , all near to this Chrystial Spring , Our vows they shall be pay'd , while th' Birds do pleasantly sing : A yielding in your Eyes , my Sappho I do behold : Then let us act our joys , before that our passion's cold . THe blooming Spices smell , and Summer is in her Pride , Come let us sport a while , and Sappho shall be my Bride : With Flowers I'le Crown thy brow , thou shalt be Queen of the Field : Where all plenty does grow , O then my fair Sappho yield . See Earth Embroyder'd smiles , and all things do gay appear : While time our Love beguiles , come blush no more my dear : Let's search for joys unknown , and each of us trade in bliss : Fair Nymph we are alone , in you shall no more resist . Alas , my Damon , fie , do not a poor Nymph betray : A Virgin I will die , Diana I will obey : Then think , kind Swain , no more to flatter your self with Love : God Cupid I'le ne'r adore , nor rank him with powers above . O say not so my joy , for Beauty's ne'r made in vain : Not use is to destroy what the powers above ordain : Hark how the Birds invite , and Love with their Song do charm Alluring to delight , while thus we hold arm in arm . No more sweet Damon spare , my blushes that do arise : Oh fie kind Shepherd forbear , and do not a Maid surprise . I am too young for Love , and must not as yet be wone : O help you Powers above , or I shall be quite undone . In vain fair Nymph you strive , for passion will have its way : And he that did love contrive , in these shades you must obey . Alas , I resistance lose , and now can resist no more : What coy I did refuse , Loves pleasures do over-pow'r . Witness this pleasant Grove , I to denial was ben Had not you forced my love , but now I shall ne'r repen No , never my Dear , for we our mutual joys will increase : So happy we will be , and live in and endless peace . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 