Loves Tyranny : OR , Death more welcome then Disdain . Being the Tragedy of Leander for the Love of Roxane . Lovers beware , for in Loves Smiles the fates , To Ruin two Adventurous Mortals waits ; Women like Sire's , first with Charms allure , Until they Wound , then leave us without Cure : Such fate Leander found , and for disdain , Took Death's kind portion , which expell'd his pain . To the Tune of , Let the Critics Adore , etc AH ! how drousie's the Skies , Now black Night does arise From the Ocean ; And all the bright Fires , Seem void of desires , And of motion : While my flames I do discover , love charges my Breast , O the Nymph there does hover , that's my portion of Res They'r creating a Desire , and such hope's of a Bliss , As my thoughts do inspire , [ while in vain I do wish . ] She does leave me confin'd , And as swift as the Wind , she does fly me ; While here all alone , I do breath my sad moan , she does try me : Melted in favors of Passion , like a Phoenix I'm fry'd , So beyond alteration , my fierce Torments abide : And I straight am made Fuel , to the Beams of her eyes , Till each moment she grows cruel , and my Flame does despise . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHile the beauteous fair , Does wound with despair , I must perish , Unless her bright face , Will yield my Love place , for to Cherish : Oh! her Angel-bright beauty , does so Charm with Delight , That I think it my Duty , through the shadows of nigh For to follow her flying , I , and sadly complain , And implore her , still sighing , for to ease my great pain . And when Purple morning , The skies is adorning , each Meander , Of the wide Grove , I importune for Love , and do wander : While as Echo replies , with a doleful harsh found , Thy Roxane she now flies , which like death's shafts wound : So that still she's Creating a Composier of Fate , Which surpasses the relating the wonders so great . O I fear some one sips , From her fair Coral Lips , the sweet Necture , While I sighs here in vain , And to Woods do complain , I neglect her : Once more i'le arise , from my mournful cold Bed , Though with Charms that surprise , she does strike me for dead : I'le press on to those pleasures , though I perish in Love , Oh! those sacred Treasures , do so powerful prove . I'le no longer despair , Thus tormented with care , and sad Fancies , But clasp'd in her Arms , There i'le perish with Charms , and with Glances : O 'tis better to be Dying , then continually grieve , Or at least for to be trying , she perhaps may relieve This so woeful disaster , that Love hath now wrought , Or to drive on fate faster , while to moan I am taught . Or before 'tis too late , I'le revive my sad state , e're I slumber , And in Death's cold shade , For Ages am laid , without number : But Oh what now appears , from yond Cypress Grove , How revived are my fears , 'tis the Queen of my Love : Ah! where fleets thou my joy , what a Vision was this , So soon gone , to destroy my short fancy of Bli [ s ] s . Oh! make room in the shades , Lovers Ghosts for life fades , and is flying ; Oh! i'le not always bear , This Eternal despair , to be dying : Then he drew his keen sword , and cry'd thus with a wound , I'le a Cure now afford , that Appollo ne'r found : Oh! then into that Breast , which Death could ne'r fright , The fatal steel pressed , and his soul it took flight . Loves Tyranny : OR , Death more welcome then Disdain . Being the Tragedy of Leander for the Love of Roxane . Lovers beware , for in Loves Smiles the fates , To Ruin two Adventurous Mortals waits ; Women like Sire's , first with Charms allure , Until they Wound , then leave us without Cure : Such fate Leander found , and for disdain , Took Death's kind portion , which expell'd his pain . To the Tune of , Let the Critics Adore , etc AH ! how drousie's the Skies , Now black Night does arise From the Ocean ; And all the bright Fires , Seem void of desires , And of motion : While my flames I do discover , love charges my Breast , O the Nymph there does hover , that's my portion of Res They'r creating a Desire , and such hope's of a Bliss , As my thoughts do inspire , [ while in vain I do wish . ] She does leave me confin'd , And as swift as the Wind , she does fly me ; While here all alone , I do breath my sad moan , she does try me : Melted in favors of Passion , like a Phoenix I'm fry'd , So beyond alteration , my fierce Torments abide : And I straight am made Fuel , to the Beams of her eyes , Till each moment she grows cruel , and my Flame does despise . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHile the beauteous fair , Does wound with despair , I must perish , Unless her bright face , Will yield my Love place , for to Cherish : Oh! her Angel-bright beauty , does so Charm with Delight , That I think it my Duty , through the shadows of nigh For to follow her flying , I , and sadly complain , And implore her , still sighing , for to ease my great pain . And when Purple morning , The skies is adorning , each Meander , Of the wide Grove , I importune for Love , and do wander : While as Echo replies , with a doleful harsh found , Thy Roxane she now flies , which like death's shafts wound : So that still she's Creating a Composier of Fate , Which surpasses the relating the wonders so great . O I fear some one sips , From her fair Coral Lips , the sweet Necture , While I sighs here in vain , And to Woods do complain , I neglect her : Once more i'le arise , from my mournful cold Bed , Though with Charms that surprise , she does strike me for dead : I'le press on to those pleasures , though I perish in Love , Oh! those sacred Treasures , do so powerful prove . I'le no longer despair , Thus tormented with care , and sad Fancies , But clasp'd in her Arms , There i'le perish with Charms , and with Glances : O 'tis better to be Dying , then continually grieve , Or at least for to be trying , she perhaps may relieve This so woeful disaster , that Love hath now wrought , Or to drive on fate faster , while to moan I am taught . Or before 'tis too late , I'le revive my sad state , e're I slumber , And in Death's cold shade , For Ages am laid , without number : But Oh what now appears , from yond Cypress Grove , How revived are my fears , 'tis the Queen of my Love : Ah! where fleets thou my joy , what a Vision was this , So soon gone , to destroy my short fancy of Bli [ s ] s . Oh! make room in the shades , Lovers Ghosts for life fades , and is flying ; Oh! i'le not always bear , This Eternal despair , to be dying : Then he drew his keen sword , and cry'd thus with a wound , I'le a Cure now afford , that Appollo ne'r found : Oh! then into that Breast , which Death could ne'r fright , The fatal steel pressed , and his soul it took flight . 