Love in the Blossom : Or , Fancy in the Bud. Containing a Pretty , Pleasant and Delightful Courtship , betwixt two very Young ( but truly Amorous ) Lovers , being persons of very Eminent Quality , ( at their first entrance into Cupids School . ) To the tune of , Amarillis told her Swain . J.P. ONe Summer evening fresh and fair , Walking out to take the Air , Near to the Court , where Gallants sport , I carefully did wander , Whereas in State , two Lovers sat Like Hero and Leander . It was under a pleasant shade , Where this pretty Couple played They did not fear to be betray'd Nor had not yet espi'd me , To hear them prattle down I laid , And closely I did hide me . They were both of tender age , In loves affairs for to engage , Yet Cupids craft , with feather'd shaft Had wounded them at distance , No humane art can cure the smart , In vain was their resistance . This young Gallant stripling sat By his loving Lady-mate , And amorously began to prate He had both time and leisure , With kisses sweet , their lips did meet , Wherein they took great pleasure . She in Cloth of Gold did shine , And her Beauty seem'd divine , I often wished she had been mine Fain would I be his Taster ; But not one bit , that I could get , It meat fit for my Master . Having now both time and place Lovingly for to embrace , This Gallants care , was to prepare The Art of Love to show her : Then near I stepped and closely crept , And thus I herd him woe her . DEarest Love and Lady mine , Let our hearts in one combine , Within your breast , my soul does rest Great Cupid hath betray'd me : To kill or cure , 'tis in your power Your Captive he hath made me . At your mercy now I lie , Grant me Love or else I die , By virtue of your eye , Dear heart in love I languish , Then be not coy my only joy But heal me of my anguish . Then she made this sweet reply A stranger unto Love am I , Good-Sir forbear , let me not hear Of bondage at this season : The Cyprian Boy shall not destroy My freedom and my Reason . But if ever I should prove , Subject to the God of Love , Methinks my mind is so inclin'd Your Courtship is so moving , No one but you , whom I do know , Shall teach me th' art of loving . Then he was quick to speak again , Whilst his hope's afresh remain ; He sometime kissed , and sometime missed According as she struggled , But had they stayed , i'me half afraid His joys he would have doub [ l ] ed. Now to break off their delight They saw coming in their sighed Another pair , both fresh and fair Of spruce and amorous Lovers ; And being met , they made no let But all their love discovers . Then they walked hand in hand , Subject all to loves command : I could not lie but up god I To see some further sport Sir , 'Twas almost dark , when over the Park I see them pass to th' Court Sir . Then I wished that I had there Such a pretty Lady near To court and kiss , to hit and miss , As others had been wooing ; But all in vain I might complain , For I could not be doing . Love in the Blossom : Or , Fancy in the Bud. Containing a Pretty , Pleasant and Delightful Courtship , betwixt two very Young ( but truly Amorous ) Lovers , being persons of very Eminent Quality , ( at their first entrance into Cupids School . ) To the tune of , Amarillis told her Swain . J.P. ONe Summer evening fresh and fair , Walking out to take the Air , Near to the Court , where Gallants sport , I carefully did wander , Whereas in State , two Lovers sat Like Hero and Leander . It was under a pleasant shade , Where this pretty Couple played They did not fear to be betray'd Nor had not yet espi'd me , To hear them prattle down I laid , And closely I did hide me . They were both of tender age , In loves affairs for to engage , Yet Cupids craft , with feather'd shaft Had wounded them at distance , No humane art can cure the smart , In vain was their resistance . This young Gallant stripling sat By his loving Lady-mate , And amorously began to prate He had both time and leisure , With kisses sweet , their lips did meet , Wherein they took great pleasure . She in Cloth of Gold did shine , And her Beauty seem'd divine , I often wished she had been mine Fain would I be his Taster ; But not one bit , that I could get , It meat fit for my Master . Having now both time and place Lovingly for to embrace , This Gallants care , was to prepare The Art of Love to show her : Then near I stepped and closely crept , And thus I herd him woe her . DEarest Love and Lady mine , Let our hearts in one combine , Within your breast , my soul does rest Great Cupid hath betray'd me : To kill or cure , 'tis in your power Your Captive he hath made me . At your mercy now I lie , Grant me Love or else I die , By virtue of your eye , Dear heart in love I languish , Then be not coy my only joy But heal me of my anguish . Then she made this sweet reply A stranger unto Love am I , Good-Sir forbear , let me not hear Of bondage at this season : The Cyprian Boy shall not destroy My freedom and my Reason . But if ever I should prove , Subject to the God of Love , Methinks my mind is so inclin'd Your Courtship is so moving , No one but you , whom I do know , Shall teach me th' art of loving . Then he was quick to speak again , Whilst his hope's afresh remain ; He sometime kissed , and sometime missed According as she struggled , But had they stayed , i'me half afraid His joys he would have doub [ l ] ed. Now to break off their delight They saw coming in their sighed Another pair , both fresh and fair Of spruce and amorous Lovers ; And being met , they made no let But all their love discovers . Then they walked hand in hand , Subject all to loves command : I could not lie but up god I To see some further sport Sir , 'Twas almost dark , when over the Park I see them pass to th' Court Sir . Then I wished that I had there Such a pretty Lady near To court and kiss , to hit and miss , As others had been wooing ; But all in vain I might complain , For I could not be doing . 