Loves Triumph over Bashfulness : OR , The Pleasant of HONOUR and CHASTITY overruled . Being a pleasant New Play-Song by way of Dialogue between Celia and Strephon. When Love takes up his Arms , all force must yield , He will be Victor , his must be the Field : Vain is Resistance no force could e're withstand The swift-wing'd shafts sent by his nimble hand : Celia brings Honour , Chastity , and fame , Not dreaming but they can resist the same ; But that they were not proof the Nymph soon found , For through them all , Love did her bosom wound . To a Pleasant new Play-House Tune . ON the Banks of a River , close under a shade , Young Celia and Strephon one evening were lay'd ; The youth pleaded strongly for the fruits of his Love But Honour had wone her his flames to reprove : She cry'd where's the lustre when clouds shade the Sun Or what is Rich Nectar , the taste being gone , among flowers on the stalk , sweetest odours do dwell , The Rose being gathered , it loses its smell . Strephon. My dearest of Nymphs the brisk Shepherd reply'd , If e're thou wouldst argue , begin on Loves side : In matters of State , let all reason be shown . But Love is a power will be rul'd by his own : Nor need the coy Lasses be counted so rare , For scandal can't touch the chaste and the Fair : Most scarce are the joys Loves Alembic does fill , And Roses are sweetest when brought to the Still . Celia . But alas cry'd the Nymph , when my Beauty is gone , Love will take wing and wiil leave us to moan ; But Honour's more lasting where virtue does reign , It finds no decay , but for aye will remain : And freshly will blossom , although in the Grave , When Love is forgotten it trophies will have , Oh think of Diana the Hunter's chaste Queen , How she for her virtue renowned hath been , Strephon. No more of these fancies then Strephon reply'd , But let this cool shade your coy blushes now hide , For what were such creatures by Heaven first made , Or why was Love sent this great world to invade ; If's power be so weak to found Virtue to yield , And such a bright beauty could chase him the Field : No more of this coyness , my Celia no more , Let's riot in pleasures and never give o're . Celia . The Nymph with such blushes that ushers the morn , Turn'd from him her face , while fair tresses adorn Her Ivory white shoulders , and faintly thus said Forbear now to tempt thus a harmless young Maid : To such found enjoyments as virtue will maim 'Tis pleasures more lasting sweet Strephon I aim , For lost Virgin-honour there's nought can repair , And she that does lose it no longer is fair . Strephon. Yet sighing , the Shepherd his Suit did renew , And implor'd that since she her kind heart did subdue She'd own the poor victim her eyes did obtain , And no longer requite his kind love with disdain : But while the young Kids & the lams they did play And the bleating flocks o're the plains they did stray : Upon the blue bed of sweet Violets that she , Would yield , yield him her , and for ever be free . Celia . Must I break all my vows , the fair nymph did return , With eyes that like Phebus at noonday did burn , O what will the World of poor Celia then say , If she should the laws of Loves Archer obey : Who his Bow and his Shafts so oft have dispis'd , And still smil'd at those o're whom love tyranniz'd : But why should I name it , I may do so still , With that a soft sighs her fair bosom did fill . Strephon. Which Strephon well noting full soon he espies , A yielding to love in bright Celias bright eyes , And though coily she seems his suit to gainsay , Yet he found by her glances she soon would obey ; When he in his arms the fair nymph did embrace , And cry'd my sweet Celia , Oh turn not thy face : For the world is benighted , the Sun once away , And your eyes turned from me no longer 'tis day . Celia . Then sighing and blushing they long time sat mute , No longer being able 'gainst love to dispute : Oh honour she cry'd must I bid thee adieu ? And what I have herd of love must I prove true ? But alas should I yield now dear Strephon , and there Her sighs and her blushes the rest did declare , Which the Shepherd to smother embrac'd with a kiss And after some struggling she yielded to bliss . And under the Shade by a murmuring Spring , Loves sweets they enjoy'd , while birds they do Sing And warble their Ditties the Lovers to cheer , Who offer'd to Venus without any fear : No more she her honour opposes to love , But under each Shade does the pleasure approve , Though blushing seems coy , yet she burns with desire And in her soft breast she does cherish Loves Fire . Loves Triumph over Bashfulness : OR , The Pleasant of HONOUR and CHASTITY overruled . Being a pleasant New Play-Song by way of Dialogue between Celia and Strephon. When Love takes up his Arms , all force must yield , He will be Victor , his must be the Field : Vain is Resistance no force could e're withstand The swift-wing'd shafts sent by his nimble hand : Celia brings Honour , Chastity , and fame , Not dreaming but they can resist the same ; But that they were not proof the Nymph soon found , For through them all , Love did her bosom wound . To a Pleasant new Play-House Tune . ON the Banks of a River , close under a shade , Young Celia and Strephon one evening were lay'd ; The youth pleaded strongly for the fruits of his Love But Honour had wone her his flames to reprove : She cry'd where's the lustre when clouds shade the Sun Or what is Rich Nectar , the taste being gone , among flowers on the stalk , sweetest odours do dwell , The Rose being gathered , it loses its smell . Strephon. My dearest of Nymphs the brisk Shepherd reply'd , If e're thou wouldst argue , begin on Loves side : In matters of State , let all reason be shown . But Love is a power will be rul'd by his own : Nor need the coy Lasses be counted so rare , For scandal can't touch the chaste and the Fair : Most scarce are the joys Loves Alembic does fill , And Roses are sweetest when brought to the Still . Celia . But alas cry'd the Nymph , when my Beauty is gone , Love will take wing and wiil leave us to moan ; But Honour's more lasting where virtue does reign , It finds no decay , but for aye will remain : And freshly will blossom , although in the Grave , When Love is forgotten it trophies will have , Oh think of Diana the Hunter's chaste Queen , How she for her virtue renowned hath been , Strephon. No more of these fancies then Strephon reply'd , But let this cool shade your coy blushes now hide , For what were such creatures by Heaven first made , Or why was Love sent this great world to invade ; If's power be so weak to found Virtue to yield , And such a bright beauty could chase him the Field : No more of this coyness , my Celia no more , Let's riot in pleasures and never give o're . Celia . The Nymph with such blushes that ushers the morn , Turn'd from him her face , while fair tresses adorn Her Ivory white shoulders , and faintly thus said Forbear now to tempt thus a harmless young Maid : To such found enjoyments as virtue will maim 'Tis pleasures more lasting sweet Strephon I aim , For lost Virgin-honour there's nought can repair , And she that does lose it no longer is fair . Strephon. Yet sighing , the Shepherd his Suit did renew , And implor'd that since she her kind heart did subdue She'd own the poor victim her eyes did obtain , And no longer requite his kind love with disdain : But while the young Kids & the lams they did play And the bleating flocks o're the plains they did stray : Upon the blue bed of sweet Violets that she , Would yield , yield him her , and for ever be free . Celia . Must I break all my vows , the fair nymph did return , With eyes that like Phebus at noonday did burn , O what will the World of poor Celia then say , If she should the laws of Loves Archer obey : Who his Bow and his Shafts so oft have dispis'd , And still smil'd at those o're whom love tyranniz'd : But why should I name it , I may do so still , With that a soft sighs her fair bosom did fill . Strephon. Which Strephon well noting full soon he espies , A yielding to love in bright Celias bright eyes , And though coily she seems his suit to gainsay , Yet he found by her glances she soon would obey ; When he in his arms the fair nymph did embrace , And cry'd my sweet Celia , Oh turn not thy face : For the world is benighted , the Sun once away , And your eyes turned from me no longer 'tis day . Celia . Then sighing and blushing they long time sat mute , No longer being able 'gainst love to dispute : Oh honour she cry'd must I bid thee adieu ? And what I have herd of love must I prove true ? But alas should I yield now dear Strephon , and there Her sighs and her blushes the rest did declare , Which the Shepherd to smother embrac'd with a kiss And after some struggling she yielded to bliss . And under the Shade by a murmuring Spring , Loves sweets they enjoy'd , while birds they do Sing And warble their Ditties the Lovers to cheer , Who offer'd to Venus without any fear : No more she her honour opposes to love , But under each Shade does the pleasure approve , Though blushing seems coy , yet she burns with desire And in her soft breast she does cherish Loves Fire . 