r The Maidens Tragedy : OR , A brief Account of a Young Damsel near Wolverhampton , who Cut her Throat in Despair , because she could not have the Man she Lov'd . To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . NEar Wolverhampton liv'd a Maid , who fell into Despair ; Her yielding Heart was soon betray'd into Love's fatal Snare : A Youngman courted her , we find , and seeming Love did flow ; Yet after all , he prov'd unkind , which wrought her Overthrow . Here do I languish in distress , the youthful Damsel cry'd , To see his most unfaithfulness , [ all round on e'ery side , ] I nothing see but Clouds of Grief , and Storms of bitter woe , It's Death alone must yield Relief , Love proves my Overthrow . Falsehearted Thomas call to mind , the solemn Vows you made , That you wou'd never prove unkind , and can you now degrade Your Loyal Lover now at last ; and fill my Heart with woe ; Which will my Life and Glory blast and prove my Overthrow . I courted was , both day and night , at length I gave Consent ; This done , my Love he strait did slight , and leaves me to lament , As if he took delight to see mine Eyes like Fountains flow ; O most ungrateful Man , said she , Love proves my Overthrow . Not long ago he did adore my very Charms he cry'd ; Was ever Man so false before , in all the World beside ! A harmless Lover to deceive and drown in Tears of Woe ; This World I am resolv'd to leave , Love proves my Overthrow . The killing Torment that I feel , does such a Passion raise , That I no longer can conceal the Sorrows of my days ; I'll hasten Death this very day , to ease my Heart of Woe ; I find there is no other way , Love proves my Overthrow . Thus being fill'd with Discontent , she took a bloody Knife , In desperate sort resolv'd and bent to cut the Thread of Life : Down from her Throat the reeking Gore in purple streams did flow And though she lay a week and more , it prov'd her Overthrow . With Grief and Sorrow compass'd round she languish'd night and day ; At length her fatal bleeding Wound did take her quite away : And all along before she dy'd , her Eyes with Tears did flow , Likewise she wrung her hands and cry'd , Love proves my Overthrow . Farewell to him who is the Cause , of all my grief and care ; Had he been true to Cupid's Laws , I solemnly declare We might have liv'd in happiness in Love and Peace I know ; But Sorrows does my Soul oppress and proves my Overthrow . Though now at present he may have Content , and Pleasure find , When I am sleeping in my Grave he then will call to mind Who caus'd this present wretched State , and fill his Heart with Woe , And then he may repent too late my dismal Overthrow . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . r The Maidens Tragedy : OR , A brief Account of a Young Damsel near Wolverhampton , who Cut her Throat in Despair , because she could not have the Man she Lov'd . To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . NEar Wolverhampton liv'd a Maid , who fell into Despair ; Her yielding Heart was soon betray'd into Love's fatal Snare : A Youngman courted her , we find , and seeming Love did flow ; Yet after all , he prov'd unkind , which wrought her Overthrow . Here do I languish in distress , the youthful Damsel cry'd , To see his most unfaithfulness , [ all round on e'ery side , ] I nothing see but Clouds of Grief , and Storms of bitter woe , It's Death alone must yield Relief , Love proves my Overthrow . Falsehearted Thomas call to mind , the solemn Vows you made , That you wou'd never prove unkind , and can you now degrade Your Loyal Lover now at last ; and fill my Heart with woe ; Which will my Life and Glory blast and prove my Overthrow . I courted was , both day and night , at length I gave Consent ; This done , my Love he strait did slight , and leaves me to lament , As if he took delight to see mine Eyes like Fountains flow ; O most ungrateful Man , said she , Love proves my Overthrow . Not long ago he did adore my very Charms he cry'd ; Was ever Man so false before , in all the World beside ! A harmless Lover to deceive and drown in Tears of Woe ; This World I am resolv'd to leave , Love proves my Overthrow . The killing Torment that I feel , does such a Passion raise , That I no longer can conceal the Sorrows of my days ; I'll hasten Death this very day , to ease my Heart of Woe ; I find there is no other way , Love proves my Overthrow . Thus being fill'd with Discontent , she took a bloody Knife , In desperate sort resolv'd and bent to cut the Thread of Life : Down from her Throat the reeking Gore in purple streams did flow And though she lay a week and more , it prov'd her Overthrow . With Grief and Sorrow compass'd round she languish'd night and day ; At length her fatal bleeding Wound did take her quite away : And all along before she dy'd , her Eyes with Tears did flow , Likewise she wrung her hands and cry'd , Love proves my Overthrow . Farewell to him who is the Cause , of all my grief and care ; Had he been true to Cupid's Laws , I solemnly declare We might have liv'd in happiness in Love and Peace I know ; But Sorrows does my Soul oppress and proves my Overthrow . Though now at present he may have Content , and Pleasure find , When I am sleeping in my Grave he then will call to mind Who caus'd this present wretched State , and fill his Heart with Woe , And then he may repent too late my dismal Overthrow . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 