Loyal Constancy ; Or , The Seamans Love-Letter : Written by John Blay on Board the Henry and Elizabeth riding at Leghorn , to his Dear Mistress Marry Foart , now living near Wapping , exhorting her to continue in her wonted love and constancy according to their mutual promises passed be - tween them , in order to their happy Union and Marriage , as soon as he shall return from this Voyage to England . Tune of , Cloris full of harmless thoughts ; Jenny Gin . The fair one let me in . TIll from Leghorn I do return , still I constant to me prove ; Let none impart , or share thy heart , but only me thy love ; Let no brisk Boy thy love enjoy , or rob me of my , treasure ; But may we kiss enjoying bliss , possessed of earthly pleasure . Ah charming fair one of my heart , how wretched now am I ; Since from thee I am forc'd to part , and leave felicity : All night I lie , I sighs and groan , still thinking of the bliss ; We oft times have injoy'd alone , with smile and amorous kiss . When night grows dark , I steer my Bark , to loves long-wished for Port ; But still I find the winds unkind , I cannot reach the Fort ; Tempestuous waves my heart enslaves my troubled Bark does roll ; Nothing I see , unless't be thee , can ease my troubled soul . With serious thoughts I spend my hours , still thinking of your charms , Till sleep my drowsy sense o're-powers , and brings thee to my arms ; Where in a Dream I thee embrace , and think the world's my own , But when I wake , Oh then alas , my earthly joy is gone . With early look , when day appears , I rouse me up from sleep ; I find my Pillow strew'd with tears , your absence caus'd me weep : Thus never shall I be at ease , till like two Turtles we May still be Billing when we please , and live at liberty . Ah Marry Foart thou lovely Maid , writ in my heart most dear ; May storms and tempests me invade , when Mary is not there : Though London youths do seek the prize , to take and bore away ; Yet she that's virtuous , chaste , and wise , will own her Love John Bay. Virtue the Reward of Constancy ; Or , Mrs. Mary Foart's Love-Letter and And - swer to her dear heart John Blay at Leghorn : Wherein she protests her constancy and happiness in the enjoyment of his love ; which she writ to him in Verse , as his was to her : and showing the same to a Friend of hers for his approbation , he caused both the Letter and the Answer to be publish'd to vindicate the Maids honour and constancy , which some sly youngmen living near , had endeavoured to traduce , and by that means to break off the match , which they had designed otherways . To the same Tune . Her Answer . MY dear to thee i'le surely be as chaste as Ice or snow ; I'le waste the nights in our delights , till Nilus overflow : Let not Spains beauty gain thy duty , nor win thee by her charms ; But may I still , spite of all ill , embrace thee in my arms . In shady Grove made fit for love , I fit and waste my hours , Sighs and cry tears from my eye , distil like Pearly showers . Nor can I rest , till I am blessed , with thee whom I esteem , Though fancy may my griefs betray , there's nothing in a Dream . Like one in chains , tortur'd with pains , I daily rave and tear , Fearing some wave might be a Grave , for to enclose my Dear ; Not all the Gods that rules the Seas , if I once see thy face , Shall me betray , or bear away my love from my embrace . May Boreas be once kind to me , fill every troubled Sail , May Merchant's leap , and Seamen skip , since love does now prevail : May winds once bear to me my Dear , and fix me on thy breast , Then shall I be , enjoying thee , of happiness possessed . In sweet delights we'l spend the nights , no storms shall cause us fear ; Locked in my arms , guarded from harms , I will secure my Dear . Then shall I surely be at ease , when like two Turtles we , May bill and kiss even when we please , enjoying liberty . Remember me my Dear John Blay , as I thee on the Shore , Let not Italian Dams betray , thy heart keep well in store . No London youths shall e're persuade my love by false report ; For thee i'le live or die a Maid , thy Dear Heart Marry Fort. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in West-smithfield Loyal Constancy ; Or , The Seamans Love-Letter : Written by John Blay on Board the Henry and Elizabeth riding at Leghorn , to his Dear Mistress Marry Foart , now living near Wapping , exhorting her to continue in her wonted love and constancy according to their mutual promises passed be - tween them , in order to their happy Union and Marriage , as soon as he shall return from this Voyage to England . Tune of , Cloris full of harmless thoughts ; Jenny Gin . The fair one let me in . TIll from Leghorn I do return , still I constant to me prove ; Let none impart , or share thy heart , but only me thy love ; Let no brisk Boy thy love enjoy , or rob me of my , treasure ; But may we kiss enjoying bliss , possessed of earthly pleasure . Ah charming fair one of my heart , how wretched now am I ; Since from thee I am forc'd to part , and leave felicity : All night I lie , I sighs and groan , still thinking of the bliss ; We oft times have injoy'd alone , with smile and amorous kiss . When night grows dark , I steer my Bark , to loves long-wished for Port ; But still I find the winds unkind , I cannot reach the Fort ; Tempestuous waves my heart enslaves my troubled Bark does roll ; Nothing I see , unless't be thee , can ease my troubled soul . With serious thoughts I spend my hours , still thinking of your charms , Till sleep my drowsy sense o're-powers , and brings thee to my arms ; Where in a Dream I thee embrace , and think the world's my own , But when I wake , Oh then alas , my earthly joy is gone . With early look , when day appears , I rouse me up from sleep ; I find my Pillow strew'd with tears , your absence caus'd me weep : Thus never shall I be at ease , till like two Turtles we May still be Billing when we please , and live at liberty . Ah Marry Foart thou lovely Maid , writ in my heart most dear ; May storms and tempests me invade , when Mary is not there : Though London youths do seek the prize , to take and bore away ; Yet she that's virtuous , chaste , and wise , will own her Love John Bay. Virtue the Reward of Constancy ; Or , Mrs. Mary Foart's Love-Letter and And - swer to her dear heart John Blay at Leghorn : Wherein she protests her constancy and happiness in the enjoyment of his love ; which she writ to him in Verse , as his was to her : and showing the same to a Friend of hers for his approbation , he caused both the Letter and the Answer to be publish'd to vindicate the Maids honour and constancy , which some sly youngmen living near , had endeavoured to traduce , and by that means to break off the match , which they had designed otherways . To the same Tune . Her Answer . MY dear to thee i'le surely be as chaste as Ice or snow ; I'le waste the nights in our delights , till Nilus overflow : Let not Spains beauty gain thy duty , nor win thee by her charms ; But may I still , spite of all ill , embrace thee in my arms . In shady Grove made fit for love , I fit and waste my hours , Sighs and cry tears from my eye , distil like Pearly showers . Nor can I rest , till I am blessed , with thee whom I esteem , Though fancy may my griefs betray , there's nothing in a Dream . Like one in chains , tortur'd with pains , I daily rave and tear , Fearing some wave might be a Grave , for to enclose my Dear ; Not all the Gods that rules the Seas , if I once see thy face , Shall me betray , or bear away my love from my embrace . May Boreas be once kind to me , fill every troubled Sail , May Merchant's leap , and Seamen skip , since love does now prevail : May winds once bear to me my Dear , and fix me on thy breast , Then shall I be , enjoying thee , of happiness possessed . In sweet delights we'l spend the nights , no storms shall cause us fear ; Locked in my arms , guarded from harms , I will secure my Dear . Then shall I surely be at ease , when like two Turtles we , May bill and kiss even when we please , enjoying liberty . Remember me my Dear John Blay , as I thee on the Shore , Let not Italian Dams betray , thy heart keep well in store . No London youths shall e're persuade my love by false report ; For thee i'le live or die a Maid , thy Dear Heart Marry Fort. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in West-smithfield 