The Mother and Daughter ; Or , A Dialogue betwixt them composed in Verse , If you will attend , I will rehearse : How the Mother did chide the Daughter for folly , The Daughter with her Mother did not dally , To silence her Mother her self she did fix , And proved her Mother to be a Meretrix . She still'd her Mother's tongue that so loud did found , Nuncl'd her Mam , and god twice fifty pound . Those two Fadillaes , as chaste as Jane Shore , Live quiet , that never did so before . The Tune is , Come Sweetheart and Embrace thine own : or , The dancing of primrose-hill Mother . WHy how Nan , what is the reason , that you look so pale and wan ? Nan , Alas Mother , all this Lent season , I am scarce able to go or to stand : Hight broth it does me cherish , warm flesh it does me nourish , This cruel hard Lent , the time I repent , peas-pottage hath poisoned me . Mother . It is a thing was never herd , that Peas in Lent they should be poison , Some other thing is to be fear'd , but thou wilt not tell me the reason ; Thy face it looks so pale and yellow , thy nose is sharp , and thy eyes are hollow : Some thing's the matter , good Nan , do not flatter , tell me the truth whatever betide . Nan . O Mother I will speak the truth , and not a lie to you will tell ; You know that George is a handsome Youth , and other young men does excel : He loves me beyond all measure , I am his joy , his delight and his treasure ; Fine things he does give me , if you'l believe me , Oh mother I love his company . Mother . How come you to love him now , when formerly you did him hate ? Nan . Mother I do protest and vow , I valve him at a mighty rate : I love him as I love my life , he said that I should be his wife , If I was willing with him to be billing , He vow'd that I should be his Bride . Nan . I walked with him into the field , and there I cropped a dainty flower ; He embraced me and we bill'd , and in the space of half and hour , And lying down upon his Belly , what sport we had I will not tell you : He did embrace me , kiss me and face me , Oh Mother he made me merry . Mother . O fie upon thee for thy pains , now to be sure thou art with-child : And honest people will thee disdain , and I cannot be reconcil'd . Lent Peas hath poisoned up your belly , 'twas something else , did I not tell you , And for this feat I will thee beatrice , Nan . O Mother pray hold your hand . Mother . Come brazenface let me see your breast , that I may know what will ensue , And looking on't she did protest , that her Daughter was with-child with two . Nan . I think that twenty times before , I have been on the very same score : Yet never beguil'd to prove with-child , Oh mother pray pardon me . Mother . To pardon thee it is not best , neither will I put up this wrong : Nan . Sure Mother you do but jest , I do you desire to hold your tongue : If I should speak that which is true , and that which I have seen by you : You would not be willing to hear of your billing O Mother i've mumpt you now . Mother . You dirty slut , why did you ever see me in actium of disgrace ? Nan . Remember the Weaver and you together you said his beard did prick your face : You did say he was too slack , and that same time he hurt your back , And being too kind , you broke your wind , Oh mother i've mumpt you now . Nan . Further I do put into your head , and remember as well as I can : The Tinker laid you upon the bed , and said he was a metal man . He peeping in your face likewise , some of the smooth fell in your eyes , And in that place he collied your face , Oh mother i've mumpt you now . Nan . And going to a Fair on a day , you said that it was for your pleasure , And there you must buy new array , and have the Taylor to take measure . And coming home you did lie down , the Taylor gave you a green gown : Being in the Corn you catch a Thorn : Oh mother i've mumpt you now . Mother . O good sweet Nan , come hold thy tongue , thou art too hard for me I find , I will never do thee Wrong , for every Cat will after kind , Thou art my dear Daughter , i'le give the right ready hereafter : If thou will quiet and will not repeat , and never to mump thy mother no more . Nan . Upon condition you will give me all the bonds of your use-money , To maintain me bravely while I live , that I may be both blithe and bonny : Mother . Yes , daughter that I am willing , and excuse thee another time for billing , Two fifty pound bonds i'le give into thy hands , Sweet Nan it is all thy own . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . The Mother and Daughter ; Or , A Dialogue betwixt them composed in Verse , If you will attend , I will rehearse : How the Mother did chide the Daughter for folly , The Daughter with her Mother did not dally , To silence her Mother her self she did fix , And proved her Mother to be a Meretrix . She still'd her Mother's tongue that so loud did found , Nuncl'd her Mam , and god twice fifty pound . Those two Fadillaes , as chaste as Jane Shore , Live quiet , that never did so before . The Tune is , Come Sweetheart and Embrace thine own : or , The dancing of primrose-hill Mother . WHy how Nan , what is the reason , that you look so pale and wan ? Nan , Alas Mother , all this Lent season , I am scarce able to go or to stand : Hight broth it does me cherish , warm flesh it does me nourish , This cruel hard Lent , the time I repent , peas-pottage hath poisoned me . Mother . It is a thing was never herd , that Peas in Lent they should be poison , Some other thing is to be fear'd , but thou wilt not tell me the reason ; Thy face it looks so pale and yellow , thy nose is sharp , and thy eyes are hollow : Some thing's the matter , good Nan , do not flatter , tell me the truth whatever betide . Nan . O Mother I will speak the truth , and not a lie to you will tell ; You know that George is a handsome Youth , and other young men does excel : He loves me beyond all measure , I am his joy , his delight and his treasure ; Fine things he does give me , if you'l believe me , Oh mother I love his company . Mother . How come you to love him now , when formerly you did him hate ? Nan . Mother I do protest and vow , I valve him at a mighty rate : I love him as I love my life , he said that I should be his wife , If I was willing with him to be billing , He vow'd that I should be his Bride . Nan . I walked with him into the field , and there I cropped a dainty flower ; He embraced me and we bill'd , and in the space of half and hour , And lying down upon his Belly , what sport we had I will not tell you : He did embrace me , kiss me and face me , Oh Mother he made me merry . Mother . O fie upon thee for thy pains , now to be sure thou art with-child : And honest people will thee disdain , and I cannot be reconcil'd . Lent Peas hath poisoned up your belly , 'twas something else , did I not tell you , And for this feat I will thee beatrice , Nan . O Mother pray hold your hand . Mother . Come brazenface let me see your breast , that I may know what will ensue , And looking on't she did protest , that her Daughter was with-child with two . Nan . I think that twenty times before , I have been on the very same score : Yet never beguil'd to prove with-child , Oh mother pray pardon me . Mother . To pardon thee it is not best , neither will I put up this wrong : Nan . Sure Mother you do but jest , I do you desire to hold your tongue : If I should speak that which is true , and that which I have seen by you : You would not be willing to hear of your billing O Mother i've mumpt you now . Mother . You dirty slut , why did you ever see me in actium of disgrace ? Nan . Remember the Weaver and you together you said his beard did prick your face : You did say he was too slack , and that same time he hurt your back , And being too kind , you broke your wind , Oh mother i've mumpt you now . Nan . Further I do put into your head , and remember as well as I can : The Tinker laid you upon the bed , and said he was a metal man . He peeping in your face likewise , some of the smooth fell in your eyes , And in that place he collied your face , Oh mother i've mumpt you now . Nan . And going to a Fair on a day , you said that it was for your pleasure , And there you must buy new array , and have the Taylor to take measure . And coming home you did lie down , the Taylor gave you a green gown : Being in the Corn you catch a Thorn : Oh mother i've mumpt you now . Mother . O good sweet Nan , come hold thy tongue , thou art too hard for me I find , I will never do thee Wrong , for every Cat will after kind , Thou art my dear Daughter , i'le give the right ready hereafter : If thou will quiet and will not repeat , and never to mump thy mother no more . Nan . Upon condition you will give me all the bonds of your use-money , To maintain me bravely while I live , that I may be both blithe and bonny : Mother . Yes , daughter that I am willing , and excuse thee another time for billing , Two fifty pound bonds i'le give into thy hands , Sweet Nan it is all thy own . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 