The Merry | | MANS Resolution Or a LONON Frolic . He goes a wooing yet the matters so , He cares not much whither he speeds or no , Cause City Wives and Wenches are so common He thinks it hard to find and honest woman Ben't angry with this fellow I protest That many a true word hath been spoke in jest , By degrees he lays a wager money's scant Until five shillings out , then ends his Rant . The Tune is much in Request , I'll hold thee five shillings . IF young Men & Maidens will listen a while I'le sing you a Sonnet will make you to smile Then come my own Dearest and be not so coy , Whatever thou fearest isle get thee a boy . I'll hold thee a six pence this silver complete If thou art but willing I can do the feat . Then be not so scornful b [ u ] tO loving and kind If thou wilt but kiss me isle tell thee my mind For I am a Gallant that's vers'd in the trade I know what belongs to Wife , Widow and Maid I'll hold thee a shilling as round as a Ring Those Lasses that kiss well loves the tother thing . Then dear let me feel if thy flesh it be warm For I vow and protest I will do thee no harm , But huddle and cuddle weel toy and weell kiss What hurt honest Neighbours can come of all this I'll hold you three sixpences in ready Coin Most Girls when they'r pleased with young men will join . BUt when they are sullin never matter't a pin , But rouse um and touz um 'twill please um again And when you have done it , this story is true If you do but kiss um they'l straight ways kiss you I'll hold you two shillings lay with me that can The fairest 'ith Nation will lie with a man . Then why should young Females continue so nice , When Ladies of pleasure do count it no vice To be kind to their Neighbours as well as the rest For Kissing and Courting is still in request , I'll hold two and six pence that's just half a crown Highest Girls in all Europe . are easiest blown down . To talk of Complexions too tedious it were , Or to know their conditions by th'colour of hair , Yet this isle assure you , either Black , Read or Brown When they'r in the humour theyl freely lie down I'll hold you three shillings who gainst me dare lay That Women delight much with young men to play . Theres Mary & Betty , with Nancy & Jone , They'l lie with a Tinker ere they'l lie alone , There's Peg , Dol and Bridget Rebecca and Kate They laugh when they hear ont but long till they hav't I'll hold thee three & six pence Maids love Men the best When they come a wooing in earnest not jest . Fine Susan and Sarah brave Lasses indeed Yet they'l lie with a Broomman if they stand in need , Likewise pretty Parnel and simpering Sisse When young men embrace them how kindly they kiss I'll hold you four shillings the nicest that be At one time or other makes use of a P ---- Then dear be contented for thou shalt have one , And shalt be prevented of lying alone : For I'm stout and lusty and fit for delight I'll hug thee & kiss thee ten times in a night I'll hold four & six pence I'll hold thee no less I'll boar a hold through thy coat even by guess . For I am and Archer , Well skil'd in that Art Though I shoot at young Damsels they never feel it smart I'll hold thee five shillings , isle hold thee no more , I'll boar a hold through thy smock even before . This song throughout England on purpose I send To make young men merry , and there is and end . The Merry | | MANS Resolution Or a LONON Frolic . He goes a wooing yet the matters so , He cares not much whither he speeds or no , Cause City Wives and Wenches are so common He thinks it hard to find and honest woman Ben't angry with this fellow I protest That many a true word hath been spoke in jest , By degrees he lays a wager money's scant Until five shillings out , then ends his Rant . The Tune is much in Request , I'll hold thee five shillings . IF young Men & Maidens will listen a while I'le sing you a Sonnet will make you to smile Then come my own Dearest and be not so coy , Whatever thou fearest isle get thee a boy . I'll hold thee a six pence this silver complete If thou art but willing I can do the feat . Then be not so scornful b [ u ] tO loving and kind If thou wilt but kiss me isle tell thee my mind For I am a Gallant that's vers'd in the trade I know what belongs to Wife , Widow and Maid I'll hold thee a shilling as round as a Ring Those Lasses that kiss well loves the tother thing . Then dear let me feel if thy flesh it be warm For I vow and protest I will do thee no harm , But huddle and cuddle weel toy and weell kiss What hurt honest Neighbours can come of all this I'll hold you three sixpences in ready Coin Most Girls when they'r pleased with young men will join . BUt when they are sullin never matter't a pin , But rouse um and touz um 'twill please um again And when you have done it , this story is true If you do but kiss um they'l straight ways kiss you I'll hold you two shillings lay with me that can The fairest 'ith Nation will lie with a man . Then why should young Females continue so nice , When Ladies of pleasure do count it no vice To be kind to their Neighbours as well as the rest For Kissing and Courting is still in request , I'll hold two and six pence that's just half a crown Highest Girls in all Europe . are easiest blown down . To talk of Complexions too tedious it were , Or to know their conditions by th'colour of hair , Yet this isle assure you , either Black , Read or Brown When they'r in the humour theyl freely lie down I'll hold you three shillings who gainst me dare lay That Women delight much with young men to play . Theres Mary & Betty , with Nancy & Jone , They'l lie with a Tinker ere they'l lie alone , There's Peg , Dol and Bridget Rebecca and Kate They laugh when they hear ont but long till they hav't I'll hold thee three & six pence Maids love Men the best When they come a wooing in earnest not jest . Fine Susan and Sarah brave Lasses indeed Yet they'l lie with a Broomman if they stand in need , Likewise pretty Parnel and simpering Sisse When young men embrace them how kindly they kiss I'll hold you four shillings the nicest that be At one time or other makes use of a P ---- Then dear be contented for thou shalt have one , And shalt be prevented of lying alone : For I'm stout and lusty and fit for delight I'll hug thee & kiss thee ten times in a night I'll hold four & six pence I'll hold thee no less I'll boar a hold through thy coat even by guess . For I am and Archer , Well skil'd in that Art Though I shoot at young Damsels they never feel it smart I'll hold thee five shillings , isle hold thee no more , I'll boar a hold through thy smock even before . This song throughout England on purpose I send To make young men merry , and there is and end . 