The Mistaken Bride : OR , The faithful Friend . To and Excellent New Tune , call'd Celia that I once was blessed . IN fair London late did dwell , A Man whose Fame did most excel ; He possessing a rich Blessing , Of his hopeful Son we'll tell : Fair Gerardo he was nam , Mild , and of sweet Temper framed . When that he was come to Age , In Virtues School fit to engage , His wise Father , he chosen rather Oxford , that fair Learned Stage , Than the Court which most admire , And which Youth do so desire . Thither he was sent to get , Fair Learning and accomplish'd Wit ; There a Knight , with great delight , Took charge of this Companion fit , For his Son George , such a Creature , Just so tall and of such a Feature . In their Stature and their Face , They were of equal Height and Grace , in their Favour , and Behaviour , So alike in every place , One was not known from the other , As if Twins , and of one Mother , And as they in Face were found , Alike in Virtue did abound ; Kind and Pretty , both like witty , Not their Equals the World round ; Not like others that are roving , But most constant in their loving . George he lov'd a Lady fair , With whom no Virgin could compare , All admiring and desiring , Such a Beauty bright and rare , Like the Sun-Beams in the Morning , All the Meads and Fields adorning . On a Time it chanced so , That to this Beauty he would go , For his Pleasure , to this Treasure , And he ask'd Gerardo too , If he would not see this Beauty , He reply'd it was his Duty . And along with him he went , But Beauty bred his discontent , her bright Eyes , did so surprise , The faithful youth , and did torment . She with Graces so abounded , And his gentle Heart so wounded . After this perplex'd in Mind , His Friend him in despair did find ; And requested , and protested , That the cause thereof he'd find : He then told in mournful fashion , That the Lady caus'd his Passion . Courage then , dear Friend , quoth he , This Beauty I'll resign to thee , She divine , shall be all thine , For we will never disagree : Go and put on my Apparel , And of her I'll take my Farewell . Go to Church and in my stead , You shall the lovely Lady wed , Do not languish , ease your anguish , Since we both alike are free'd , None can know us from each other , Not so much as our own Mother . Then next day as they decree'd Gerardo wedded her indeed , After Feasting , Mirth and Jesting , To the Nuptial Bed they speed ; She supposing 'twas her Lover , Gave him Joys none may discover . All the night in her soft Arms , He lay possessed of all her Charms ; but next day , a Post that way , Did give these Lovers loud Alarms , For Gerardo comes from London , And now all the Plot is undone , All the matter's plainly prov'd That 'twas his Friend the Lady lov'd , Though she Wedded and was Bedded , To Gerardo in mistake : Now their Kindred all deceive them , All enrag'd , they railing leave them . Banish'd thus from London quite , And depriv'd of Wealth and Right , Fortune froward and untoward , Made him sighs both day and night , In ( says he ) this Fortune cruel , I'll go seek my Friend and Jewel . When that he to Oxford came , And found his Friend by mighty Fame , He possessing , Fortune's Blessing , Wealth and a renowned Name ; Quoth he , now I am ashamed , That Gerardo should be nam . Wherefore I within this Street Will stay till I my Friend do meet , He ran by , him did espy , But knew not 'twas his Friend so nigh , Which did cause Gerardo's anguish , Made him sighs and made him languish . Then in Grief he drew his Knife , Thereby to end his wretched Life , Sighing , moaning , sadly groaning ; Till he there fell fast asleep , Where , while he lay soundly sleeping , There a murdering Thief came sleeping . With this Knife he ran amain , And thrust in the Man he had slave , After peeping , he still sleeping , Put it in his hand again ; Then away fled from the sleeper , That had Heaven for his safe Keeper . When that search in this was made , Gerardo was for Murder stayed ; He confessed and did protest , That he the murder'd Man had slave : But his Friend that knew him pitied , And Gerardo soon acquitted . Quoth he , then 'twas only I That kill'd this Man , then let me die ; while they pleaded , and proceeded , The Thief there himself came by , To the Judges did discover Every thing , the Fact all over . In brave rich Array he straight Was suited , as became his Fate , And his Land , at his Command , And former Servants on him wai The Thief Pardon'd here lamented , His foul Fact , and so repented . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven near St. Andrews Church , in Holborn . The Mistaken Bride : OR , The faithful Friend . To and Excellent New Tune , call'd Celia that I once was blessed . IN fair London late did dwell , A Man whose Fame did most excel ; He possessing a rich Blessing , Of his hopeful Son we'll tell : Fair Gerardo he was nam , Mild , and of sweet Temper framed . When that he was come to Age , In Virtues School fit to engage , His wise Father , he chosen rather Oxford , that fair Learned Stage , Than the Court which most admire , And which Youth do so desire . Thither he was sent to get , Fair Learning and accomplish'd Wit ; There a Knight , with great delight , Took charge of this Companion fit , For his Son George , such a Creature , Just so tall and of such a Feature . In their Stature and their Face , They were of equal Height and Grace , in their Favour , and Behaviour , So alike in every place , One was not known from the other , As if Twins , and of one Mother , And as they in Face were found , Alike in Virtue did abound ; Kind and Pretty , both like witty , Not their Equals the World round ; Not like others that are roving , But most constant in their loving . George he lov'd a Lady fair , With whom no Virgin could compare , All admiring and desiring , Such a Beauty bright and rare , Like the Sun-Beams in the Morning , All the Meads and Fields adorning . On a Time it chanced so , That to this Beauty he would go , For his Pleasure , to this Treasure , And he ask'd Gerardo too , If he would not see this Beauty , He reply'd it was his Duty . And along with him he went , But Beauty bred his discontent , her bright Eyes , did so surprise , The faithful youth , and did torment . She with Graces so abounded , And his gentle Heart so wounded . After this perplex'd in Mind , His Friend him in despair did find ; And requested , and protested , That the cause thereof he'd find : He then told in mournful fashion , That the Lady caus'd his Passion . Courage then , dear Friend , quoth he , This Beauty I'll resign to thee , She divine , shall be all thine , For we will never disagree : Go and put on my Apparel , And of her I'll take my Farewell . Go to Church and in my stead , You shall the lovely Lady wed , Do not languish , ease your anguish , Since we both alike are free'd , None can know us from each other , Not so much as our own Mother . Then next day as they decree'd Gerardo wedded her indeed , After Feasting , Mirth and Jesting , To the Nuptial Bed they speed ; She supposing 'twas her Lover , Gave him Joys none may discover . All the night in her soft Arms , He lay possessed of all her Charms ; but next day , a Post that way , Did give these Lovers loud Alarms , For Gerardo comes from London , And now all the Plot is undone , All the matter's plainly prov'd That 'twas his Friend the Lady lov'd , Though she Wedded and was Bedded , To Gerardo in mistake : Now their Kindred all deceive them , All enrag'd , they railing leave them . Banish'd thus from London quite , And depriv'd of Wealth and Right , Fortune froward and untoward , Made him sighs both day and night , In ( says he ) this Fortune cruel , I'll go seek my Friend and Jewel . When that he to Oxford came , And found his Friend by mighty Fame , He possessing , Fortune's Blessing , Wealth and a renowned Name ; Quoth he , now I am ashamed , That Gerardo should be nam . Wherefore I within this Street Will stay till I my Friend do meet , He ran by , him did espy , But knew not 'twas his Friend so nigh , Which did cause Gerardo's anguish , Made him sighs and made him languish . Then in Grief he drew his Knife , Thereby to end his wretched Life , Sighing , moaning , sadly groaning ; Till he there fell fast asleep , Where , while he lay soundly sleeping , There a murdering Thief came sleeping . With this Knife he ran amain , And thrust in the Man he had slave , After peeping , he still sleeping , Put it in his hand again ; Then away fled from the sleeper , That had Heaven for his safe Keeper . When that search in this was made , Gerardo was for Murder stayed ; He confessed and did protest , That he the murder'd Man had slave : But his Friend that knew him pitied , And Gerardo soon acquitted . Quoth he , then 'twas only I That kill'd this Man , then let me die ; while they pleaded , and proceeded , The Thief there himself came by , To the Judges did discover Every thing , the Fact all over . In brave rich Array he straight Was suited , as became his Fate , And his Land , at his Command , And former Servants on him wai The Thief Pardon'd here lamented , His foul Fact , and so repented . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven near St. Andrews Church , in Holborn . 