A mournful Caral : Or , And Elegy , Lamenting the Tragic ends [ of the ] unfortunate Faithful Lovers , Frankin and Cordelius , he being slave , she slew her self with her Dagger . To a new Tune , called , Franklin is fled away . F [ ran ] kin my loyal friend , Oh hone , oh hone , In whom my joy do end , Oh hone , oh hone , Frankin my hearts delight , Since last he took his flight , bids now the world good night , Oh hone oh hone , Frankin , is fled and gone , Oh hone , oh hone , And left me here alone , Oh hone , oh hone , Frankin is fled away , The glory of the May , Who can but mourn and say , Oh hone , oh hone Frankin belov'd of all , Oh hone , oh hone , Ladies lament his fallen , Oh hone , oh hone , Come mourn upon his shrine , You Lady Muses nine , And Matrons all divine , Oh hone , oh hone , Frankin with comely grace , Oh hone , oh hone , Courted with kind embrace , Oh hone , oh hone , Till Mars did bear control , And his affection stole , to heaven bequeath'd his soul , Oh hone , oh hone Frankin did please the Dams , Oh hone , oh hone , None could resist his Flames , Oh hone , oh hone Virgins lament the day , That Franklin fled away , How can we choose but say , Oh hone , oh hone . Frankin why would'st thou go , Oh hone , oh hone To Battle with thy Foe , Oh hone , o hone , Thy solemn obsequies , With watery dropping eyes , A mournful sacrifice , Oh hone , a hone . frankin which grac'd the swains , Oh hone oh hone Sported upon the Plains , Oh hone , oh hone , With all the Royal train , Faithful he did remain , Until my Lord was slave , Oh hone , oh hone , FRankin why would'st thou die , Oh hone , oh hone Regarding not my cry , Oh hone , oh hone , Lovesick in every vein , Oppressed with grief and pain : And so I shall remain , Oh hone , oh hone . Frankin the pride of men , Oh hone , oh hone , None flourished like him then , till death without remorse , took Frankin hence by force , I must bewail his Course , Oh hone , oh hone , In the Elizium Fields , Oh hone , oh hone , Much joy and pleasure yields , Oh hone , oh hone , there Frankin Sainted is , enjoying Lovers bliss . The Earthly mould I'le kiss , Oh hone , oh hone , [ Frankin ] under this stone , Oh hone , oh hone , His Corpse remain alone , Oh hone , oh hone , Come drop with me a tear , All you that faithful are , Such zealous thoughts I bear , Oh hone , oh hone Frankin I come to thee , Oh hone , oh hone , To end my misery , Oh hone , oh hone , The world I plainly find , A hell unto my mind , Thou art so true and kind , Oh hone , oh hone . I count there is no bliss , Oh hone , oh hone , But where my true love is , Oh hone , oh hone , Go toul my mournful bell , There's heaven where Frank does dwell Now must I bid farewell , Oh hone , oh hone , This Dagger in my hand , Oh hone , oh hone , My life shall soon command , Oh hone oh hone , And with this fatal Dart , I'll stab my Lovesick heart , Ending a Lovers part , Oh hone oh hone . Thus did she end her life , Oh hone , oh hone , Which should have been his wife , Oh hone oh hone Young-Men and Virgins all , Lament these Lovers fallen , Gracing their Funeral , Oh hone , oh hone . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A mournful Caral : Or , And Elegy , Lamenting the Tragic ends [ of the ] unfortunate Faithful Lovers , Frankin and Cordelius , he being slave , she slew her self with her Dagger . To a new Tune , called , Franklin is fled away . F [ ran ] kin my loyal friend , Oh hone , oh hone , In whom my joy do end , Oh hone , oh hone , Frankin my hearts delight , Since last he took his flight , bids now the world good night , Oh hone oh hone , Frankin , is fled and gone , Oh hone , oh hone , And left me here alone , Oh hone , oh hone , Frankin is fled away , The glory of the May , Who can but mourn and say , Oh hone , oh hone Frankin belov'd of all , Oh hone , oh hone , Ladies lament his fallen , Oh hone , oh hone , Come mourn upon his shrine , You Lady Muses nine , And Matrons all divine , Oh hone , oh hone , Frankin with comely grace , Oh hone , oh hone , Courted with kind embrace , Oh hone , oh hone , Till Mars did bear control , And his affection stole , to heaven bequeath'd his soul , Oh hone , oh hone Frankin did please the Dams , Oh hone , oh hone , None could resist his Flames , Oh hone , oh hone Virgins lament the day , That Franklin fled away , How can we choose but say , Oh hone , oh hone . Frankin why would'st thou go , Oh hone , oh hone To Battle with thy Foe , Oh hone , o hone , Thy solemn obsequies , With watery dropping eyes , A mournful sacrifice , Oh hone , a hone . frankin which grac'd the swains , Oh hone oh hone Sported upon the Plains , Oh hone , oh hone , With all the Royal train , Faithful he did remain , Until my Lord was slave , Oh hone , oh hone , FRankin why would'st thou die , Oh hone , oh hone Regarding not my cry , Oh hone , oh hone , Lovesick in every vein , Oppressed with grief and pain : And so I shall remain , Oh hone , oh hone . Frankin the pride of men , Oh hone , oh hone , None flourished like him then , till death without remorse , took Frankin hence by force , I must bewail his Course , Oh hone , oh hone , In the Elizium Fields , Oh hone , oh hone , Much joy and pleasure yields , Oh hone , oh hone , there Frankin Sainted is , enjoying Lovers bliss . The Earthly mould I'le kiss , Oh hone , oh hone , [ Frankin ] under this stone , Oh hone , oh hone , His Corpse remain alone , Oh hone , oh hone , Come drop with me a tear , All you that faithful are , Such zealous thoughts I bear , Oh hone , oh hone Frankin I come to thee , Oh hone , oh hone , To end my misery , Oh hone , oh hone , The world I plainly find , A hell unto my mind , Thou art so true and kind , Oh hone , oh hone . I count there is no bliss , Oh hone , oh hone , But where my true love is , Oh hone , oh hone , Go toul my mournful bell , There's heaven where Frank does dwell Now must I bid farewell , Oh hone , oh hone , This Dagger in my hand , Oh hone , oh hone , My life shall soon command , Oh hone oh hone , And with this fatal Dart , I'll stab my Lovesick heart , Ending a Lovers part , Oh hone oh hone . Thus did she end her life , Oh hone , oh hone , Which should have been his wife , Oh hone oh hone Young-Men and Virgins all , Lament these Lovers fallen , Gracing their Funeral , Oh hone , oh hone . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 