The Mad Man's MORRICE : OR , A WARNING for young Men to have a care , How they in LOVE entangled are ; Wherein by Experience you shall find , His Trouble and and Grief , with Discontent of M [ ind . ] To a pleasant new Tune , & . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . HEard you not lately of a Man , that went beside his wits , And naked through the streets he ran , wrapped in his frantic fits ? My honest Neighbours , it is I , hark how the People flout me , See where the Mad man comes , they cry , with all the Boys about me . Into a pond stark naked I ran , and cast away my clothes , Sir , Without the help of any Man , made shift to get away , Sir : How I god out I have forgotten , I do not well remember , Or whither it was cold or hight in June or in December . Tom Bedlam's but a Sage to me , I speak in sober sadness , For more strange visions do I see , then he in all his madness ; When first to me this chance befell , about the market walked I With capon's feathers in my cap , and to myself thus talked I : Did you not see my Love of late , like Titan in her glory ? Did you not know she was my Mate , and I must write her story ? With pen of gold on silver leaf , I will so much befriend her , For why I am of that belief , none can so well commend her . Saw you not Angels in her eyes , while that she was a speaking ? Smelled you not smells like Paradise , between two rubies breaking ? Is not her hair more pure then gold , of finest spider's spinning ? Methinks in her I do behold , my joys and woes beginning . Is not a dimple in her cheek , each eye a star that's starting ? Is not all graces install'd in her , each step all joys imparting ? Methinks I see her in a cloud , with graces round about her ; To them I call and cry aloud , I cannot live without her . Then raging towards the sky I rove , thinking to catch her hand , Oh then to jove I call and cry , to let her by me stand : I look behind and there I saw my shadow me beguile , I wish she were as near to me , which makes my Worship smile . There is no Creature can compare with my beloved Nancy ; Thus I built castles in the air , this is the fruit of fancy : My thoughts mount high above the sky , of none I stand in awe , Although my body here does lie , upon a pad of straw . I was as good a harmless Youth , before base Cupid caught me ; Or his own Mother with her charms , into this case hath brought me : Stripped and whipped now must I be , in Bedlam bound in chains ; Good People now you all may see what Love hath for his pains . When I was young as other are , with Gallants did I flourish , Oh then I was the proyerest Lad that was in all the Parish : The bracelet which I us'd to wear , about my arms so tender , Are turned into iron plataeae , about my body slender . My silken suits do now decay , my cups of gold are vanished , And all my Friends do wear away , as I from them were banished : My silver cups are turn'd to earth , i'm jeer'd of every Clown : I was a better Man by birth , till Fortune cast me down . I am out of frame and temper too , though I am somewhat cheerful , Oh this can Love and Fancy do , if that you be not careful : Oh set a watch before your eyes , lest they betray your heart , And make you slaves to vanities , to act a Mad man's part . Declare this to each Mother's Son , unto each honest Lad ; Let them not do as I have done , lest they like me grow mad : If Cupid strike , be sure of this , let Reason rule Affection , So shalt thou never do amiss , by Reason's good direction . I have no more to say to you , my Keepers now does chide me , Now must I bid you all adieu , God knows what will betide me : To picking straws now must I go , my time in Bedlam spending , Good folks you your Beginning know but do not know your Ending . The Mad Man's MORRICE : OR , A WARNING for young Men to have a care , How they in LOVE entangled are ; Wherein by Experience you shall find , His Trouble and and Grief , with Discontent of M [ ind . ] To a pleasant new Tune , & . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . HEard you not lately of a Man , that went beside his wits , And naked through the streets he ran , wrapped in his frantic fits ? My honest Neighbours , it is I , hark how the People flout me , See where the Mad man comes , they cry , with all the Boys about me . Into a pond stark naked I ran , and cast away my clothes , Sir , Without the help of any Man , made shift to get away , Sir : How I god out I have forgotten , I do not well remember , Or whither it was cold or hight in June or in December . Tom Bedlam's but a Sage to me , I speak in sober sadness , For more strange visions do I see , then he in all his madness ; When first to me this chance befell , about the market walked I With capon's feathers in my cap , and to myself thus talked I : Did you not see my Love of late , like Titan in her glory ? Did you not know she was my Mate , and I must write her story ? With pen of gold on silver leaf , I will so much befriend her , For why I am of that belief , none can so well commend her . Saw you not Angels in her eyes , while that she was a speaking ? Smelled you not smells like Paradise , between two rubies breaking ? Is not her hair more pure then gold , of finest spider's spinning ? Methinks in her I do behold , my joys and woes beginning . Is not a dimple in her cheek , each eye a star that's starting ? Is not all graces install'd in her , each step all joys imparting ? Methinks I see her in a cloud , with graces round about her ; To them I call and cry aloud , I cannot live without her . Then raging towards the sky I rove , thinking to catch her hand , Oh then to jove I call and cry , to let her by me stand : I look behind and there I saw my shadow me beguile , I wish she were as near to me , which makes my Worship smile . There is no Creature can compare with my beloved Nancy ; Thus I built castles in the air , this is the fruit of fancy : My thoughts mount high above the sky , of none I stand in awe , Although my body here does lie , upon a pad of straw . I was as good a harmless Youth , before base Cupid caught me ; Or his own Mother with her charms , into this case hath brought me : Stripped and whipped now must I be , in Bedlam bound in chains ; Good People now you all may see what Love hath for his pains . When I was young as other are , with Gallants did I flourish , Oh then I was the proyerest Lad that was in all the Parish : The bracelet which I us'd to wear , about my arms so tender , Are turned into iron plataeae , about my body slender . My silken suits do now decay , my cups of gold are vanished , And all my Friends do wear away , as I from them were banished : My silver cups are turn'd to earth , i'm jeer'd of every Clown : I was a better Man by birth , till Fortune cast me down . I am out of frame and temper too , though I am somewhat cheerful , Oh this can Love and Fancy do , if that you be not careful : Oh set a watch before your eyes , lest they betray your heart , And make you slaves to vanities , to act a Mad man's part . Declare this to each Mother's Son , unto each honest Lad ; Let them not do as I have done , lest they like me grow mad : If Cupid strike , be sure of this , let Reason rule Affection , So shalt thou never do amiss , by Reason's good direction . I have no more to say to you , my Keepers now does chide me , Now must I bid you all adieu , God knows what will betide me : To picking straws now must I go , my time in Bedlam spending , Good folks you your Beginning know but do not know your Ending . 