A CARROUSE TO THE Emperor , the Royal Pole , And the much-wrong'd DUKE of LORRAIN . To a New Tune at the PLAY-HOUSE HArk ! I hear the Cannons Roar , Echoing from the Germane Shore , And the joyful News come's o're , that the Turks are all confounded , Loorane comes , they Run they Run , Charge with your Horse throw the grand halfmoon , And give quarter unto none , since Starenberge is wounded . Close your Ranks , and each brave Soul , Fill a lusty Flowing Bowl , A Grand Carouse to the Royal Pole , the Empires brave Defender : Let no man leave his Post by stealth , Plunder the Barbarous Visieurs wealth , Wee'l drink a Helmet full , the Health , of Second Alexander . Fill the Helmet once again , To the Emperor's happy Reign , And the much wrong'd Duke Lorrain , but when they've beatrice the Turks home : Not a Soul the Field will leave , 'Till they do again retrieve , What the Mounsier does deprive , and fix him in his Dukedom . Then will be the Scheme of War , When such drinking Crowns prepare , Those that Love , the Mounsiers fear , their Courage will be shrinking , Loyal Hearts inspir'd with Hock , Who can from a Better Rock , The French will never stand the Shock , for all their Clarret Drinking . Mahomet was a senseless Dog , A Coffee-drinking drowsy Rogue , The use of the Grape so much in vogue , to deny to those adore him ; Had he allow'd the Fruits of the Vine , And gave them leave to Carouse in Wine , They all had freely passed the Rhine , and Conquer'd all before them . Coffee Rallys no retreat , Wine can only do the Feat , Had their Force been twice as great , and all of Janazaries , Tho' he had drank the Danube dry And all their profit could supply , By his interest from the Sky , brisk Langoon ne're miscarry'd . Infidels are now o'recome , The most Christian Turk at home , Watch'd the Fate of Christendom , but all his hope's are shallow : Since the Poles have led the Dance , If Englands Monarch will advance , And if he'l send a Fleet to Fr --- , he's a Whig that will not follow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-Smithfield . A CARROUSE TO THE Emperor , the Royal Pole , And the much-wrong'd DUKE of LORRAIN . To a New Tune at the PLAY-HOUSE HArk ! I hear the Cannons Roar , Echoing from the Germane Shore , And the joyful News come's o're , that the Turks are all confounded , Loorane comes , they Run they Run , Charge with your Horse throw the grand halfmoon , And give quarter unto none , since Starenberge is wounded . Close your Ranks , and each brave Soul , Fill a lusty Flowing Bowl , A Grand Carouse to the Royal Pole , the Empires brave Defender : Let no man leave his Post by stealth , Plunder the Barbarous Visieurs wealth , Wee'l drink a Helmet full , the Health , of Second Alexander . Fill the Helmet once again , To the Emperor's happy Reign , And the much wrong'd Duke Lorrain , but when they've beatrice the Turks home : Not a Soul the Field will leave , 'Till they do again retrieve , What the Mounsier does deprive , and fix him in his Dukedom . Then will be the Scheme of War , When such drinking Crowns prepare , Those that Love , the Mounsiers fear , their Courage will be shrinking , Loyal Hearts inspir'd with Hock , Who can from a Better Rock , The French will never stand the Shock , for all their Clarret Drinking . Mahomet was a senseless Dog , A Coffee-drinking drowsy Rogue , The use of the Grape so much in vogue , to deny to those adore him ; Had he allow'd the Fruits of the Vine , And gave them leave to Carouse in Wine , They all had freely passed the Rhine , and Conquer'd all before them . Coffee Rallys no retreat , Wine can only do the Feat , Had their Force been twice as great , and all of Janazaries , Tho' he had drank the Danube dry And all their profit could supply , By his interest from the Sky , brisk Langoon ne're miscarry'd . Infidels are now o'recome , The most Christian Turk at home , Watch'd the Fate of Christendom , but all his hope's are shallow : Since the Poles have led the Dance , If Englands Monarch will advance , And if he'l send a Fleet to Fr --- , he's a Whig that will not follow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-Smithfield . A CARROUSE TO THE Emperor , the Royal Pole , And the much-wrong'd DUKE of LORRAIN . To a New Tune at the PLAY-HOUSE HArk ! I hear the Cannons Roar , Echoing from the Germane Shore , And the joyful News come's o're , that the Turks are all confounded , Loorane comes , they Run they Run , Charge with your Horse throw the grand halfmoon , And give quarter unto none , since Starenberge is wounded . Close your Ranks , and each brave Soul , Fill a lusty Flowing Bowl , A Grand Carouse to the Royal Pole , the Empires brave Defender : Let no man leave his Post by stealth , Plunder the Barbarous Visieurs wealth , Wee'l drink a Helmet full , the Health , of Second Alexander . Fill the Helmet once again , To the Emperor's happy Reign , And the much wrong'd Duke Lorrain , but when they've beatrice the Turks home : Not a Soul the Field will leave , 'Till they do again retrieve , What the Mounsier does deprive , and fix him in his Dukedom . Then will be the Scheme of War , When such drinking Crowns prepare , Those that Love , the Mounsiers fear , their Courage will be shrinking , Loyal Hearts inspir'd with Hock , Who can from a Better Rock , The French will never stand the Shock , for all their Clarret Drinking . Mahomet was a senseless Dog , A Coffee-drinking drowsy Rogue , The use of the Grape so much in vogue , to deny to those adore him ; Had he allow'd the Fruits of the Vine , And gave them leave to Carouse in Wine , They all had freely passed the Rhine , and Conquer'd all before them . Coffee Rallys no retreat , Wine can only do the Feat , Had their Force been twice as great , and all of Janazaries , Tho' he had drank the Danube dry And all their profit could supply , By his interest from the Sky , brisk Langoon ne're miscarry'd . Infidels are now o'recome , The most Christian Turk at home , Watch'd the Fate of Christendom , but all his hope's are shallow : Since the Poles have led the Dance , If Englands Monarch will advance , And if he'l send a Fleet to Fr --- , he's a Whig that will not follow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-Smithfield . A CARROUSE TO THE Emperor , the Royal Pole , And the much-wrong'd DUKE of LORRAIN . To a New Tune at the PLAY-HOUSE HArk ! I hear the Cannons Roar , Echoing from the Germane Shore , And the joyful News come's o're , that the Turks are all confounded , Loorane comes , they Run they Run , Charge with your Horse throw the grand halfmoon , And give quarter unto none , since Starenberge is wounded . Close your Ranks , and each brave Soul , Fill a lusty Flowing Bowl , A Grand Carouse to the Royal Pole , the Empires brave Defender : Let no man leave his Post by stealth , Plunder the Barbarous Visieurs wealth , Wee'l drink a Helmet full , the Health , of Second Alexander . Fill the Helmet once again , To the Emperor's happy Reign , And the much wrong'd Duke Lorrain , but when they've beatrice the Turks home : Not a Soul the Field will leave , 'Till they do again retrieve , What the Mounsier does deprive , and fix him in his Dukedom . Then will be the Scheme of War , When such drinking Crowns prepare , Those that Love , the Mounsiers fear , their Courage will be shrinking , Loyal Hearts inspir'd with Hock , Who can from a Better Rock , The French will never stand the Shock , for all their Clarret Drinking . Mahomet was a senseless Dog , A Coffee-drinking drowsy Rogue , The use of the Grape so much in vogue , to deny to those adore him ; Had he allow'd the Fruits of the Vine , And gave them leave to Carouse in Wine , They all had freely passed the Rhine , and Conquer'd all before them . Coffee Rallys no retreat , Wine can only do the Feat , Had their Force been twice as great , and all of Janazaries , Tho' he had drank the Danube dry And all their profit could supply , By his interest from the Sky , brisk Langoon ne're miscarry'd . Infidels are now o'recome , The most Christian Turk at home , Watch'd the Fate of Christendom , but all his hope's are shallow : Since the Poles have led the Dance , If Englands Monarch will advance , And if he'l send a Fleet to Fr --- , he's a Whig that will not follow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-Smithfield . 