The Norfolk Lass : OR , The Maid that was Blown with-Child . Of a North-Country Lass I mean for to tell , Who receiv'd such a Blast made her Belly to Swell . To the Tune of , The King and Northern man : Or , Tommy Pots . IT chanced of late as I herd one tell , From Wessen to Maxel a Maid came to dwell ; She thrived so well , and her body so great , Made all the Wives in the Town wonder thereat . It was at a Burial when it was done , To talk with this Maiden the good women came ; Then said the good Women are we not beguil'd , We stand in great fear that thou art with-Chi'd . But then this Maid begun for to Swear , As if in and anger her self she would tear ; It were a great wonder as ever was known , If I be with-Child into me it is blown . For never no man had with me to do , Therefore good women 'tis nothing so ; She wish'd to the Lord , which you little think , that the ground might open , and in she might sink . Why good women , then she did name , Think you good Women that I am the same ; If I should swear if that I did know , That oft to my body had god such a blow . In the Church Porch , hard by the Church-door , The Women examin'd this Maiden therefore ; She said 'twas a trouble that griev'd her full soar , She had got the same of her Mother before . This passed on while Tuesday came on , To be sick in Stomach this Maiden begun : She calls to one Goodman to make her a fire , For no other company she did desire . Up into her Chamber she went alone , The Women below did hear her to groan , Up went a Woman , but I herd no more , And there found a dainty Boy laid on the flore . She took up the pretty Babe as 'tis a use , Telling the Mother of this her abuse : Then , said she , marry , I told thee before , That thou wertenberg with-child though you it forswore But then for more of the Neighbours she sent , [ A ] and for to see this strange Accident ; [ TO ] he strange accident to the Women was shown , [ TO ] hat into the Body the Baby was blown The sighed of the Infant made the Wives glad , Asking the Mother who should be the Dad ; She viewed the pretty Babe which was her Son , And said 'twas a dainty Boy like to a Bum. Next Thursday after to Church it was brought , For to have it Christened , as it did ough Godfathers , Godmothers , all that it had , They all did agree to the name of the Dad . All you fair Maids have better care , And of your Maidenheads stand more in fear : If that your Bodies begin for to bown , Never forswear't , for the truth will be known . Maids go no more to Weston to dance , But have a care of all such mischance : for Weston youngmen such blasts they will blow They'l blow Maids with-Child , & they shall it not know . And thus to end my ditty so New , You may report it , for certain 'tis true : She would not believe it till that it was known , But into her Body the Baby was blown . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksb [ y , at the Golden-Ball , ] near the Hospital - [ gate , in West-Smithfield . ] The Norfolk Lass : OR , The Maid that was Blown with-Child . Of a North-Country Lass I mean for to tell , Who receiv'd such a Blast made her Belly to Swell . To the Tune of , The King and Northern man : Or , Tommy Pots . IT chanced of late as I herd one tell , From Wessen to Maxel a Maid came to dwell ; She thrived so well , and her body so great , Made all the Wives in the Town wonder thereat . It was at a Burial when it was done , To talk with this Maiden the good women came ; Then said the good Women are we not beguil'd , We stand in great fear that thou art with-Chi'd . But then this Maid begun for to Swear , As if in and anger her self she would tear ; It were a great wonder as ever was known , If I be with-Child into me it is blown . For never no man had with me to do , Therefore good women 'tis nothing so ; She wish'd to the Lord , which you little think , that the ground might open , and in she might sink . Why good women , then she did name , Think you good Women that I am the same ; If I should swear if that I did know , That oft to my body had god such a blow . In the Church Porch , hard by the Church-door , The Women examin'd this Maiden therefore ; She said 'twas a trouble that griev'd her full soar , She had got the same of her Mother before . This passed on while Tuesday came on , To be sick in Stomach this Maiden begun : She calls to one Goodman to make her a fire , For no other company she did desire . Up into her Chamber she went alone , The Women below did hear her to groan , Up went a Woman , but I herd no more , And there found a dainty Boy laid on the flore . She took up the pretty Babe as 'tis a use , Telling the Mother of this her abuse : Then , said she , marry , I told thee before , That thou wertenberg with-child though you it forswore But then for more of the Neighbours she sent , [ A ] and for to see this strange Accident ; [ TO ] he strange accident to the Women was shown , [ TO ] hat into the Body the Baby was blown The sighed of the Infant made the Wives glad , Asking the Mother who should be the Dad ; She viewed the pretty Babe which was her Son , And said 'twas a dainty Boy like to a Bum. Next Thursday after to Church it was brought , For to have it Christened , as it did ough Godfathers , Godmothers , all that it had , They all did agree to the name of the Dad . All you fair Maids have better care , And of your Maidenheads stand more in fear : If that your Bodies begin for to bown , Never forswear't , for the truth will be known . Maids go no more to Weston to dance , But have a care of all such mischance : for Weston youngmen such blasts they will blow They'l blow Maids with-Child , & they shall it not know . And thus to end my ditty so New , You may report it , for certain 'tis true : She would not believe it till that it was known , But into her Body the Baby was blown . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksb [ y , at the Golden-Ball , ] near the Hospital - [ gate , in West-Smithfield . ] 