The Naked-Truth ; OR , A New Song without a Lie Tune of , Old Simon the King : Or , The Character of sundry Trades and Callings . THo' Trading we find in the City , and many more places , is bad , Yet here I will sing a fine Ditty , we'd as good be merry as sad : Of several Trades I will treat , and will with the Butcher begin , With what kind of Trade shall he meet , if he has neither Carcase nor Skin ? All you that are now in this Throng , I reckon to do you no wrong , Believe me , I pray , by yea and by nay , there is not a lie in this Song . A Weaver without Loom or Shuttle , like one out of use , may lie by , A Tinker without any Metal , no woman will ever employ : A Cobbler without St. Hugh's bones , he cannot mend Old , or make New , A Pavior without any Stones . O , what is he able to do ? All you that are now in this Throng , etc A Man that is quite Moneyless , thro' Crowds he in safety may pass , A Cook that hath no meet to Dress , he need not stand making of Sauce . A Taylor without e're a Yard , his bodkin , goose , thimble and sheers , You'll find that he is as much Marr'd , as if he had lost both his Ears : All you that are now , etc A Fisherman without a Net , you know he can catch but a few , But yet his good wife she will fret , when ever she wants of her due : The jolly brisk Baker is one , to whom the young Lasses do troule , So that he is clearly undone , if he has not a Rusling Pole : All you that are now , etc The Miller's for taking to task the Mistress or Gillian the Maid , The Cooper without Hoops or Cask , he cannot well follow his Trade The Poet without e're a Muse , can never make Sonnets complete , A Footman without Pumps or Shoes , will certainly blister his fee All you that are now , etc A Scrivener without Ink or Pen , his bonds and his Letters can't write , A Captain that lost all his men , will have but small stomach to figh The man that shall marry for Gold , and brings home a Shrew to his bed , Both Morning , Noon , Night she will scold and still have a Foise in her head , All you that are now , etc The Chimney-Sweeper pray don't sco [ rn ] , for if he hath Shackles and Poles , He'll call to the Maids each-morn , to scour and cleanse their black holes : That man that is naked indeed , he is not like Tailors , and those , For tho' he has ne're so much need , he is not for pawning his Clothes : All you that are now , etc A Gallant that has a good Coat , 'twill help him out at a dead lift , A Sculler that has ne'r a boat , he fears not Running a Drift Some Sharpers a Calling does use , 'tis Robbing Rich Men of their store , But he that has nothing to lose , he needs not a watch at his door . All you that are now , etc I ne'r was brought up for to Lie , and therefore I tell you the truth , My ballads I'd have you to buy , they're fit for Diversion of Youth : My Pocket with Coal to increase , let every youngman and maid , Now lay out a penny a piece , and then I shall have a good trade . All you that are now in this Throng , I'll do you no manner of wrong , Believe me , I pray , by yea and by nay , there is not a lie in this Song . FINIS . The Naked-Truth ; OR , A New Song without a Lie Tune of , Old Simon the King : Or , The Character of sundry Trades and Callings . THo' Trading we find in the City , and many more places , is bad , Yet here I will sing a fine Ditty , we'd as good be merry as sad : Of several Trades I will treat , and will with the Butcher begin , With what kind of Trade shall he meet , if he has neither Carcase nor Skin ? All you that are now in this Throng , I reckon to do you no wrong , Believe me , I pray , by yea and by nay , there is not a lie in this Song . A Weaver without Loom or Shuttle , like one out of use , may lie by , A Tinker without any Metal , no woman will ever employ : A Cobbler without St. Hugh's bones , he cannot mend Old , or make New , A Pavior without any Stones . O , what is he able to do ? All you that are now in this Throng , etc A Man that is quite Moneyless , thro' Crowds he in safety may pass , A Cook that hath no meet to Dress , he need not stand making of Sauce . A Taylor without e're a Yard , his bodkin , goose , thimble and sheers , You'll find that he is as much Marr'd , as if he had lost both his Ears : All you that are now , etc A Fisherman without a Net , you know he can catch but a few , But yet his good wife she will fret , when ever she wants of her due : The jolly brisk Baker is one , to whom the young Lasses do troule , So that he is clearly undone , if he has not a Rusling Pole : All you that are now , etc The Miller's for taking to task the Mistress or Gillian the Maid , The Cooper without Hoops or Cask , he cannot well follow his Trade The Poet without e're a Muse , can never make Sonnets complete , A Footman without Pumps or Shoes , will certainly blister his fee All you that are now , etc A Scrivener without Ink or Pen , his bonds and his Letters can't write , A Captain that lost all his men , will have but small stomach to figh The man that shall marry for Gold , and brings home a Shrew to his bed , Both Morning , Noon , Night she will scold and still have a Foise in her head , All you that are now , etc The Chimney-Sweeper pray don't sco [ rn ] , for if he hath Shackles and Poles , He'll call to the Maids each-morn , to scour and cleanse their black holes : That man that is naked indeed , he is not like Tailors , and those , For tho' he has ne're so much need , he is not for pawning his Clothes : All you that are now , etc A Gallant that has a good Coat , 'twill help him out at a dead lift , A Sculler that has ne'r a boat , he fears not Running a Drift Some Sharpers a Calling does use , 'tis Robbing Rich Men of their store , But he that has nothing to lose , he needs not a watch at his door . All you that are now , etc I ne'r was brought up for to Lie , and therefore I tell you the truth , My ballads I'd have you to buy , they're fit for Diversion of Youth : My Pocket with Coal to increase , let every youngman and maid , Now lay out a penny a piece , and then I shall have a good trade . All you that are now in this Throng , I'll do you no manner of wrong , Believe me , I pray , by yea and by nay , there is not a lie in this Song . FINIS . 