The new made Gentlewoman Or , The dishonest Lady . Written as true as she did relate How Money made her every Rascal's Mate Likewise she says she's gather'd riches store . By only playing of the private Whore . And now in the Country she's gone , And left me behind to sing this song . To a new Tune , Or , The Flatteries of Fate . COme Gallants and lisen unto me a while i'll sing you a song that will make you smile Of one that is pretty , in London fair City , And Gentlemens humours she can beguile . My Parents quoth she hath left me forlorn , And told me how I was begotten in a Barn , But since I am to elder years grown To be told of my Parents I hold it in scorn . I god a few Clothes and to London I came , Where quickly my beauty did get me a name ; I tell you the truth although you me blame , I now am become a Girl of the Game . The first that come to me he was a Footboy , And he gave me a Crown for to call him my Joy , I lov'd him and joy'd him and honey'd him so That it cost him and Angel before he did go . A Lawyers Clerk was the next that did come , And made me believe that he was a Lords Son , I pleased his mind when I found out his play That it cost him a pound before he went away . And many more to me did straitways Resort , With Gold and with Silver my person to court , That Riches I gather'd by using this Trade After forty had used me I went for a Maid . WIth silks & with sattings now bravely I go , and waiting-maids on me attend , you must know My justico and Black-Patches I were , Which make all admire that on me does stare . Brave Gallants I promise you does me adore Not taking me to be a vampified Whore , They'll give me a Guinny if on them I smile , And two for a take-up , thus I them beguile . My Smock it is Cambrick I tell you the truth , And handled by many a prodigal youth I have a fine spring that runeth so clear , That it brings me as good as two hundred a Year . Now I have god Treasure no longer i'll stay But into the Country strait I will away , where one of my lovers hath done me much wrong For in a weeks time he did send me this song . The Gentleman's Song that he sent his Lady into the Country . MY Lady is grown so bonny and gay she's gone from the City in the country to play , And by her great fame , she's god such a name , With singing and dancing it makes her go lame . She played in the City almost half a year And yet for her wages she's never the near , But a Gallant did say this part you must play This thought in some corner that he did her lay . I steering my coast one night in the dark I met with a Frigate that sail'd towards the Park She hoist up sail and away she did run I see her cast Anchor at the Prince in the Sun. I gave her a Guinny to enter her Fort She presently yielded to come to the sport , But finding me lazy strait bid me begone I gave her a shot , but she fir'd my Gun. And thus I was conquer'd and forc't to retire For she gave me a Clap against my desire , she makes me go straddling with swelling my eggs you may drive a wheelbarrow between my 2 legs . But now her beauty is almost decayed , which makes her to paint for to hold up that trade , with false locks & vizard masks she has great skill , But she's known for a whore let her go where she will . By L. W. The new made Gentlewoman Or , The dishonest Lady . Written as true as she did relate How Money made her every Rascal's Mate Likewise she says she's gather'd riches store . By only playing of the private Whore . And now in the Country she's gone , And left me behind to sing this song . To a new Tune , Or , The Flatteries of Fate . COme Gallants and lisen unto me a while i'll sing you a song that will make you smile Of one that is pretty , in London fair City , And Gentlemens humours she can beguile . My Parents quoth she hath left me forlorn , And told me how I was begotten in a Barn , But since I am to elder years grown To be told of my Parents I hold it in scorn . I god a few Clothes and to London I came , Where quickly my beauty did get me a name ; I tell you the truth although you me blame , I now am become a Girl of the Game . The first that come to me he was a Footboy , And he gave me a Crown for to call him my Joy , I lov'd him and joy'd him and honey'd him so That it cost him and Angel before he did go . A Lawyers Clerk was the next that did come , And made me believe that he was a Lords Son , I pleased his mind when I found out his play That it cost him a pound before he went away . And many more to me did straitways Resort , With Gold and with Silver my person to court , That Riches I gather'd by using this Trade After forty had used me I went for a Maid . WIth silks & with sattings now bravely I go , and waiting-maids on me attend , you must know My justico and Black-Patches I were , Which make all admire that on me does stare . Brave Gallants I promise you does me adore Not taking me to be a vampified Whore , They'll give me a Guinny if on them I smile , And two for a take-up , thus I them beguile . My Smock it is Cambrick I tell you the truth , And handled by many a prodigal youth I have a fine spring that runeth so clear , That it brings me as good as two hundred a Year . Now I have god Treasure no longer i'll stay But into the Country strait I will away , where one of my lovers hath done me much wrong For in a weeks time he did send me this song . The Gentleman's Song that he sent his Lady into the Country . MY Lady is grown so bonny and gay she's gone from the City in the country to play , And by her great fame , she's god such a name , With singing and dancing it makes her go lame . She played in the City almost half a year And yet for her wages she's never the near , But a Gallant did say this part you must play This thought in some corner that he did her lay . I steering my coast one night in the dark I met with a Frigate that sail'd towards the Park She hoist up sail and away she did run I see her cast Anchor at the Prince in the Sun. I gave her a Guinny to enter her Fort She presently yielded to come to the sport , But finding me lazy strait bid me begone I gave her a shot , but she fir'd my Gun. And thus I was conquer'd and forc't to retire For she gave me a Clap against my desire , she makes me go straddling with swelling my eggs you may drive a wheelbarrow between my 2 legs . But now her beauty is almost decayed , which makes her to paint for to hold up that trade , with false locks & vizard masks she has great skill , But she's known for a whore let her go where she will . By L. W. 