OXFORD in Mourning , For the Loss of the Parliament . OR , London's loud Laughter at her late flattering her self with Excessive Trading . A Pleasant New SONG . Now Tapsters , Vintners , Sales-men , Tailors , all Open their Throats , and for their losses bawl : The Parliament is gone , their hope's now fail , Pall'd is the Wine , and Egar grow the Ale : Now Rooms late let for twenty Crowns a Week , Would let for twelvepence , but may Lodgers seek ; London Rejoices who was sad before , And in like Coin does pay off Oxfords score . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound ; Or , Digby's Farewell . LOndon now smiles to see Oxford in Tears , Who lately derided and scoff'd at her fears ; Thinking their joys they wou'd never be spent , But that always they'd last with the Parliament But Oh she's mistaken , for now they are gone , And fairly have left her to grieve all alone . Now Vintners and Tapsters that hop'd for such gain , By Cheating the people have cause to Complain ; The Cooks that were stor'd with Provision , now grieve While London to hear it does laugh in her sleeve : And now each fat Hostis who lives by the Sins Of those who brought many to whimper , begins . So Dolefully Tool now the Bells' that of late , With loud sounds did a pleasure to hear them create ; The Innkeepers late that so Prodigal were , Of Standings , have Horse-room enough , and to spare : While London rejoices to think of the time , When Oxford Bells' jangl'd , and scarcely cou'd Chime Now Salesmen and Sempstresses homeward do pack , No more cries the Shoemaker , what do you lack ; The Taylor by Thimble and Bodkin does Curse , And swears that his Trading could never be worse : Yet home again barefoot poor Pricklouse must trudge , While Oxford he bans , and his Labour does grudge . The Chairmen who thought to return with a Load Of Silver to London , to store their abode ; Now homeward do foot it , though 'tis with much pain , And creep in their Chairs to secure them from Rain : When night does approach , there their lodging thy make For a better to purchase , no moneys they take . The Coffee-men wish they at London had stay'd , And not to have rambl'd in hope's of a Trade ; Their Shops of Sedition did fail of their end , And back now their Puddle to London they send : While she does deride them , and flout them to scorn , To see their Ears hanging as if they were forlorn . O the Scholars now curse the gay Crack of the town , Who troop'd it to Oxford to trade for a Crown ; The Youngsters put in and bid money for all , But the jades were so scittich they gave them a fallen : And many in watering their Nags have been burn'd , The Bath were so hight e're the Stream could be turn'd . While Chirurgeons of all the best trading will find , For the Cracks being fled , they have left work behind : That doubtless repentance unfeigned , will cause The Goldsmiths and Drapers now stand at a pause : How in their Journey the Padders to escape , While London for joy at their follies does leap . She hears the sad sounding of Oxford great Bell , Which the towns heaviness plainly do tell ; How their Laughter they lately against her did vent , For enjoying the Court and the Parliament Is now turn'd to weeping , and each one sits sad , To think what a loss by dissolving he's had . Remember then Oxford how London you flout , For she'l be still even with you 'tis no doubt ; Englands chief City must still bear the Bell , For near it the most part the King he will dwell : And cheer her with favours , while Oxford sits sad , And many lament the bad trade they have had . FINIS . OXFORD in Mourning , For the Loss of the Parliament . OR , London's loud Laughter at her late flattering her self with Excessive Trading . A Pleasant New SONG . Now Tapsters , Vintners , Sales-men , Tailors , all Open their Throats , and for their losses bawl : The Parliament is gone , their hope's now fail , Pall'd is the Wine , and Egar grow the Ale : Now Rooms late let for twenty Crowns a Week , Would let for twelvepence , but may Lodgers seek ; London Rejoices who was sad before , And in like Coin does pay off Oxfords score . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound ; Or , Digby's Farewell . LOndon now smiles to see Oxford in Tears , Who lately derided and scoff'd at her fears ; Thinking their joys they wou'd never be spent , But that always they'd last with the Parliament But Oh she's mistaken , for now they are gone , And fairly have left her to grieve all alone . Now Vintners and Tapsters that hop'd for such gain , By Cheating the people have cause to Complain ; The Cooks that were stor'd with Provision , now grieve While London to hear it does laugh in her sleeve : And now each fat Hostis who lives by the Sins Of those who brought many to whimper , begins . So Dolefully Tool now the Bells' that of late , With loud sounds did a pleasure to hear them create ; The Innkeepers late that so Prodigal were , Of Standings , have Horse-room enough , and to spare : While London rejoices to think of the time , When Oxford Bells' jangl'd , and scarcely cou'd Chime Now Salesmen and Sempstresses homeward do pack , No more cries the Shoemaker , what do you lack ; The Taylor by Thimble and Bodkin does Curse , And swears that his Trading could never be worse : Yet home again barefoot poor Pricklouse must trudge , While Oxford he bans , and his Labour does grudge . The Chairmen who thought to return with a Load Of Silver to London , to store their abode ; Now homeward do foot it , though 'tis with much pain , And creep in their Chairs to secure them from Rain : When night does approach , there their lodging thy make For a better to purchase , no moneys they take . The Coffee-men wish they at London had stay'd , And not to have rambl'd in hope's of a Trade ; Their Shops of Sedition did fail of their end , And back now their Puddle to London they send : While she does deride them , and flout them to scorn , To see their Ears hanging as if they were forlorn . O the Scholars now curse the gay Crack of the town , Who troop'd it to Oxford to trade for a Crown ; The Youngsters put in and bid money for all , But the jades were so scittich they gave them a fallen : And many in watering their Nags have been burn'd , The Bath were so hight e're the Stream could be turn'd . While Chirurgeons of all the best trading will find , For the Cracks being fled , they have left work behind : That doubtless repentance unfeigned , will cause The Goldsmiths and Drapers now stand at a pause : How in their Journey the Padders to escape , While London for joy at their follies does leap . She hears the sad sounding of Oxford great Bell , Which the towns heaviness plainly do tell ; How their Laughter they lately against her did vent , For enjoying the Court and the Parliament Is now turn'd to weeping , and each one sits sad , To think what a loss by dissolving he's had . Remember then Oxford how London you flout , For she'l be still even with you 'tis no doubt ; Englands chief City must still bear the Bell , For near it the most part the King he will dwell : And cheer her with favours , while Oxford sits sad , And many lament the bad trade they have had . FINIS . 