The Northern DITTY : OR , THE Scotchman Outwitted by the Country Damsel . To and excellent New Scotch Tune , of Cold and Raw the North did blow , etc A Song much in Request at Court . This may be Printed , R. P. COld and Raw the North did blow bleak in the morning early ; All the Trees were hid with Snow , cover'd with Winter's yearly : As I came riding o'er the Slough , I met with a Farmers Daughter ; Rosy Cheeks , and bonny Brow , geud Faith made my mouth to water . Down I vail'd my Bonnet low , meaning to show my breeding , She return'd a graceful bow , her Visage far exceeding ; I ask'd here where she went so soon , and long'd to begin a Parley ; She told me to the next Market-Town , a purpose to fell her Barley . In this Purse , sweet Soul , said I , twenty pound lies fairly , Seek no farther one to buy , for I'se take all thy Barley : Twenty more shall purchase delight , thy Person I love so dearly , If thou wilt lig by me all night , and gang home in the morning early . If Forty pound would buy the Globe , this thing I'de not do Sir , Or were my Friends as poor as Job , I'd never raise 'em so Sir : For shou'd you prove to night my Friend , we'se get a young Kid together , And you'd be gone e'er nine Months end , and where shall I find the Father ? prey what would my Parents say , if I should be so silly , To give my Maidenhead away , and loose my true Love Billy ? O , this would bring me to Disgrace , and therefore I say you nay , Sir ; And if that you would me Embrace , first Marry , and then you may Sir . I told her I had Wedded been , fourteen years and longer , Else I'd choose her for my Queen , and tie the Knot yet stronger . She bid me then no farther room , but manage my Wedlock fairly , And keep my Purse for poor Spouse at home , for some other should have her Barley . Then as swift as any Roe , she road away and left me ; After her I could not go , of Joy she quite bereft me : Thus I my self did disappoint , for she did leave me fairly , My words knock'd all things out of joint , I lost both the maid and barley . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back . The Northern DITTY : OR , THE Scotchman Outwitted by the Country Damsel . To and excellent New Scotch Tune , of Cold and Raw the North did blow , etc A Song much in Request at Court . This may be Printed , R. P. COld and Raw the North did blow bleak in the morning early ; All the Trees were hid with Snow , cover'd with Winter's yearly : As I came riding o'er the Slough , I met with a Farmers Daughter ; Rosy Cheeks , and bonny Brow , geud Faith made my mouth to water . Down I vail'd my Bonnet low , meaning to show my breeding , She return'd a graceful bow , her Visage far exceeding ; I ask'd here where she went so soon , and long'd to begin a Parley ; She told me to the next Market-Town , a purpose to fell her Barley . In this Purse , sweet Soul , said I , twenty pound lies fairly , Seek no farther one to buy , for I'se take all thy Barley : Twenty more shall purchase delight , thy Person I love so dearly , If thou wilt lig by me all night , and gang home in the morning early . If Forty pound would buy the Globe , this thing I'de not do Sir , Or were my Friends as poor as Job , I'd never raise 'em so Sir : For shou'd you prove to night my Friend , we'se get a young Kid together , And you'd be gone e'er nine Months end , and where shall I find the Father ? prey what would my Parents say , if I should be so silly , To give my Maidenhead away , and loose my true Love Billy ? O , this would bring me to Disgrace , and therefore I say you nay , Sir ; And if that you would me Embrace , first Marry , and then you may Sir . I told her I had Wedded been , fourteen years and longer , Else I'd choose her for my Queen , and tie the Knot yet stronger . She bid me then no farther room , but manage my Wedlock fairly , And keep my Purse for poor Spouse at home , for some other should have her Barley . Then as swift as any Roe , she road away and left me ; After her I could not go , of Joy she quite bereft me : Thus I my self did disappoint , for she did leave me fairly , My words knock'd all things out of joint , I lost both the maid and barley . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back . 