No Love , no Life . OR , Damon Comforted in Distress . You that are adorn'd with Beauty , do not thus your Love disdain ; Count not it to be their duty , for to Languish thus in pain . To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . DAmon in the shades was walking , With fair Phillis he was talking , their discourse was terms of Love , He was kind , as you shall find , and ever more did faithful prove . In his arms he did embrace her , Vowing he wou'd ne'r disgrace her , but would still maintain , the praise Of the creature , whose sweet feature , was the Glory of his days . The Woman's Reply . Young men they will seem most grateful When their hearts are most deceitful , thus they draw Maids in a snare , And deceive them , thus they leave them , fill their hearts with grief and care . O my Love I am more Loyal , Phillis do but make a trial , I will ever constant be , The heart of mine is surely thine , I love none in the world but thee . The Woman's second Reply . How many maidens thus have died , When their Loves have them denied , this we find of lae is true , Then with tears , and frights , and fears , they sighing bid the world adieu . To escape from him she strived , Of his joys he was deprived , grieving at her high disdain , He was vexed and perplexed , yet he call'd her back again . She regarded not his passion , Leaving him in desparation , till sweet Cupid with his Bow , Sent a Dart which pierc'd her heart , and said it must and shall be so . When she found that she was wounded , She with sighs and sorrows Sounded then again she did revive , She confessed , she was blessed , with the sweetest man alive . Here I sighs , lament , and languish , How can I endure this anguish , I am in a Sea of woe , This sad trial , my denial , proves my fatal overthrow . With what language did he greet me , And with smiles he did entreat me , yet I still did him deny , My disdain increase my pain , I for love shall surely die . All her sorrows thus he heard , Then he presently appeared , she to him with comfort smil'd , Then with Kisses their sweet Blisses , all their sorrows did beguil'd . Thus their hearts were both united , She with him was much delighted , thus their troubles had and end , Sorrow ceased , Love increased , Cupid surely was their friend . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon in Guilt-spur-Street . No Love , no Life . OR , Damon Comforted in Distress . You that are adorn'd with Beauty , do not thus your Love disdain ; Count not it to be their duty , for to Languish thus in pain . To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . DAmon in the shades was walking , With fair Phillis he was talking , their discourse was terms of Love , He was kind , as you shall find , and ever more did faithful prove . In his arms he did embrace her , Vowing he wou'd ne'r disgrace her , but would still maintain , the praise Of the creature , whose sweet feature , was the Glory of his days . The Woman's Reply . Young men they will seem most grateful When their hearts are most deceitful , thus they draw Maids in a snare , And deceive them , thus they leave them , fill their hearts with grief and care . O my Love I am more Loyal , Phillis do but make a trial , I will ever constant be , The heart of mine is surely thine , I love none in the world but thee . The Woman's second Reply . How many maidens thus have died , When their Loves have them denied , this we find of lae is true , Then with tears , and frights , and fears , they sighing bid the world adieu . To escape from him she strived , Of his joys he was deprived , grieving at her high disdain , He was vexed and perplexed , yet he call'd her back again . She regarded not his passion , Leaving him in desparation , till sweet Cupid with his Bow , Sent a Dart which pierc'd her heart , and said it must and shall be so . When she found that she was wounded , She with sighs and sorrows Sounded then again she did revive , She confessed , she was blessed , with the sweetest man alive . Here I sighs , lament , and languish , How can I endure this anguish , I am in a Sea of woe , This sad trial , my denial , proves my fatal overthrow . With what language did he greet me , And with smiles he did entreat me , yet I still did him deny , My disdain increase my pain , I for love shall surely die . All her sorrows thus he heard , Then he presently appeared , she to him with comfort smil'd , Then with Kisses their sweet Blisses , all their sorrows did beguil'd . Thus their hearts were both united , She with him was much delighted , thus their troubles had and end , Sorrow ceased , Love increased , Cupid surely was their friend . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon in Guilt-spur-Street . 