The Old Man's Wish : This Old Man he does wish for Wealth in vain , But he does not the Treasure gain ; For if with Wishes he the same could have , He would not mind nor think upon the Grave . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune . IF I live to grow Old , ( for I find I go down ) Let this be my Fate in a Country Town ; Let me have a warm House , with a Stone at the Gate , And a cleanly young Girl to rub my bald Pate : May I govern my Passion with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better , as my Strength wears away ; Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle Decay . In a Country Town , by a murmuring Brook , The Ocean at distance on which I may look : With a spacious Plain , without Hedge or Style , And and easy Pad-nagg to ride out a Mile : May I govern my Passion with and absolute sway , To grow wiser and better , as my Strength wears away ; Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle Decay . With a Pudding on Sunday , and stout humming Liquour , And Remnants of Latin to puzzle the Vicar ; With a hidden reserve of Burgundy Wine , To drink the King's Health as oft as I dine : May I govern my Passion with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better , as my Strength wears away ; Without Gout or Slone , by a gentle Decay . With Plutarch and Horace , and one or two more Of the best Wits that liv'd in the Ages before ; With a Dish of Roast Mutton , not Venison nor Teal . And clean ( tho' coarse ) Linen at every Meal ; May I govern my Passion , etc And if I should have Guest , I must add to my Wish , On Frydays a Mess of good buttered Fish ; For full well I do know , and the Truth I reveal , I had better do so , than come short of a Meal : May I govern my Passion , etc With Breeches and Jerkin of good Country Grey , And live without Working , now my Strength does decay : With a Hogshead of Sherry , for to drink when I please , With Friends to be merry , and to live at my ease ; May I govern my Passion , etc Without Molestation may I spend my last Days , In sweet Recreation , and found forth the Praise Of all those that are true to the King and his Laws , Since it be their endue , they shall have my Applause : May I govern my Passion , etc With a Country Scribe for to write my last Will , But not of the Tribe that in choosing have Skill : For my easy Pad-nagg , I'll bequeathe to DONE John , For he's and arch Wag , and a jolly old Man : May I govern my Passion , etc With Courage undaunted may I face my last Day , And when I am dead , may the better sort say , In the Morning when sober , in the Evening when mellow , He's gone , and has left not behind him his Fellow : For he govern'd his Passion with and absolute sway , And grew wiser and better as his strength wore away , Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle Decay . Printed by W. O. for B. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . The Old Man's Wish : This Old Man he does wish for Wealth in vain , But he does not the Treasure gain ; For if with Wishes he the same could have , He would not mind nor think upon the Grave . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune . IF I live to grow Old , ( for I find I go down ) Let this be my Fate in a Country Town ; Let me have a warm House , with a Stone at the Gate , And a cleanly young Girl to rub my bald Pate : May I govern my Passion with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better , as my Strength wears away ; Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle Decay . In a Country Town , by a murmuring Brook , The Ocean at distance on which I may look : With a spacious Plain , without Hedge or Style , And and easy Pad-nagg to ride out a Mile : May I govern my Passion with and absolute sway , To grow wiser and better , as my Strength wears away ; Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle Decay . With a Pudding on Sunday , and stout humming Liquour , And Remnants of Latin to puzzle the Vicar ; With a hidden reserve of Burgundy Wine , To drink the King's Health as oft as I dine : May I govern my Passion with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better , as my Strength wears away ; Without Gout or Slone , by a gentle Decay . With Plutarch and Horace , and one or two more Of the best Wits that liv'd in the Ages before ; With a Dish of Roast Mutton , not Venison nor Teal . And clean ( tho' coarse ) Linen at every Meal ; May I govern my Passion , etc And if I should have Guest , I must add to my Wish , On Frydays a Mess of good buttered Fish ; For full well I do know , and the Truth I reveal , I had better do so , than come short of a Meal : May I govern my Passion , etc With Breeches and Jerkin of good Country Grey , And live without Working , now my Strength does decay : With a Hogshead of Sherry , for to drink when I please , With Friends to be merry , and to live at my ease ; May I govern my Passion , etc Without Molestation may I spend my last Days , In sweet Recreation , and found forth the Praise Of all those that are true to the King and his Laws , Since it be their endue , they shall have my Applause : May I govern my Passion , etc With a Country Scribe for to write my last Will , But not of the Tribe that in choosing have Skill : For my easy Pad-nagg , I'll bequeathe to DONE John , For he's and arch Wag , and a jolly old Man : May I govern my Passion , etc With Courage undaunted may I face my last Day , And when I am dead , may the better sort say , In the Morning when sober , in the Evening when mellow , He's gone , and has left not behind him his Fellow : For he govern'd his Passion with and absolute sway , And grew wiser and better as his strength wore away , Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle Decay . Printed by W. O. for B. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 