THE REDEEMED CAPTIVE . The Free Unchain'd Lover boasts That he is now at Large . That other men should keep so too He gives this friendly charge . Tune , When Aurelia first was SUrely now I'm out of danger I'l defy blind Cupids Dart Love to me is grown a stranger Therefore isle not break my heart . Yet all the graces of their faces They may keep , since I am free Some are witty , some are pretty For I'l keep my Liberty . Once I lov'd my Mistress dearly Counting her my chiefest friend Then I waited late and early My true Love to recommend . I quenched the fire of desire That did burn so cruelly Then farewell Beauty , 'tis my duty For to prize my Liberty . Once to me she was so cruel She laughed to see me swim in blood And when I burn'd I burn'd like fuel Grief came on me like a flood , Sighs & groanings , sobs & mournings Were my chief companions still When I lay panting , for love wanting Then she had me at her will The grief and sorrow I went thorough Made my life a burden seem I thought it time , while in my prime My Liberty for to redeem . I'm now compliance , with defiance And scorn a captive still to be No charming eyes shall me surprise Since I have gained my Liberty . I pity Lovers who discovers To their Idols all their pain Who soon can cure , what they endure And yet they stubborn will remain . Count it not duty , when a beauty You do see , it to adore If once they find it , do but mind it You'r enslav'd for evermore . Do but mind me , & you'l find me For to be your chiefest friend When yo'r taken , and forsaken Griefs and sorrows will attend . Oft their smilings prove beguilings And poor men are strangely caught They prove like Treason to your reason And lay Embargoes on each thought . Never heed e'm , for your freedom Is of greater valve , then Why should women , captive freemen Or make slaves of loving men . Dote no meor then , nor adore them Whose great beauti's make them proud Do but fly them , or defy them Favours on you they will crowd . THE REDEEMED CAPTIVE . The Free Unchain'd Lover boasts That he is now at Large . That other men should keep so too He gives this friendly charge . Tune , When Aurelia first was SUrely now I'm out of danger I'l defy blind Cupids Dart Love to me is grown a stranger Therefore isle not break my heart . Yet all the graces of their faces They may keep , since I am free Some are witty , some are pretty For I'l keep my Liberty . Once I lov'd my Mistress dearly Counting her my chiefest friend Then I waited late and early My true Love to recommend . I quenched the fire of desire That did burn so cruelly Then farewell Beauty , 'tis my duty For to prize my Liberty . Once to me she was so cruel She laughed to see me swim in blood And when I burn'd I burn'd like fuel Grief came on me like a flood , Sighs & groanings , sobs & mournings Were my chief companions still When I lay panting , for love wanting Then she had me at her will The grief and sorrow I went thorough Made my life a burden seem I thought it time , while in my prime My Liberty for to redeem . I'm now compliance , with defiance And scorn a captive still to be No charming eyes shall me surprise Since I have gained my Liberty . I pity Lovers who discovers To their Idols all their pain Who soon can cure , what they endure And yet they stubborn will remain . Count it not duty , when a beauty You do see , it to adore If once they find it , do but mind it You'r enslav'd for evermore . Do but mind me , & you'l find me For to be your chiefest friend When yo'r taken , and forsaken Griefs and sorrows will attend . Oft their smilings prove beguilings And poor men are strangely caught They prove like Treason to your reason And lay Embargoes on each thought . Never heed e'm , for your freedom Is of greater valve , then Why should women , captive freemen Or make slaves of loving men . Dote no meor then , nor adore them Whose great beauti's make them proud Do but fly them , or defy them Favours on you they will crowd . 