v Then Faction comes with his confused breath , Breathes forth his mind , and whispers in the ear , To those who is by him accounted dear ; And freely does unfold how he is bent Against his Prince and Lawful Government None strives to reconcile that strange demur , They valve not what dangers may incur ; Ambitions Pride did more and more increase For to divide the Land , disturb the Peace . In this Caballing strain they did run on , Contrary to the Laws of God and Man : The Root and Branch of this Rebellious Tree Grew great , and spread it self by Villainy . Here one lies down , who freely did conspire To spew forth Coals of most contentious Fire : Then Satan comes , and in these Words he said , There's nothing can be done without my aid ; 'Twas I that first did put you in the way , Then follow in your blows , make no delay : And I will be as helpful to you still In your proceedings , to my utmost skill . No sooner Satan had this Promise made , But wretched Man most willingly obey'd . Rebellion taken Root , like Evil Weeds Did grow , from Thought to Words , then heinous Deeds . Behold where Satan lies ! what pains he takes To blow the Flames , and vast confusion makes . He at the Root does like a Serpent lurk , Seeking to set his Engines all at work ; To make desention both in Church and State , And all through very hope of being grea All in disorder by common [ ? ] Till Ruin had the Nation overspread . We see in part by what they took in hand , They'd slay the Subject's to preserve the Land : But see the just reward of their outrage , They are become Examples of this Age . When from Rebellion all their hope's does flow , The hand of Justice gives the fatal Blow : The Figure here does fairly represent The final Fallen of Traitors Insolent . Observe the Root , there Satan he ensnares , Behold the Tree , and see what Fruit she bears ! With lofty Arms she all her Branches spreads , Her chiefest Fruit she bears , is Traitors Heads . By Treason they their own destruction wrought , And at the length was here to Justice brought . Those that behold their fatal destiny , Keeping the Paths of Love and Loyalty ; Then Peace and Plenty daily will increase , And all the Land be fill'd with Joy and Peace . Let Loyalty be found through all the Land , And e'ry Subject in obedience stand : To Royal JAMES , our Gracious Sovereign Lord , Let all the Nation pray with one accord : That those which shall succeed from Age to Age , May never see the like of this outrage ; But be preserv'd from violence secure , So long as shall the Sun and Moon endure . This may be Printed , R.P. LONDON Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street 1686 . v Then Faction comes with his confused breath , Breathes forth his mind , and whispers in the ear , To those who is by him accounted dear ; And freely does unfold how he is bent Against his Prince and Lawful Government None strives to reconcile that strange demur , They valve not what dangers may incur ; Ambitions Pride did more and more increase For to divide the Land , disturb the Peace . In this Caballing strain they did run on , Contrary to the Laws of God and Man : The Root and Branch of this Rebellious Tree Grew great , and spread it self by Villainy . Here one lies down , who freely did conspire To spew forth Coals of most contentious Fire : Then Satan comes , and in these Words he said , There's nothing can be done without my aid ; 'Twas I that first did put you in the way , Then follow in your blows , make no delay : And I will be as helpful to you still In your proceedings , to my utmost skill . No sooner Satan had this Promise made , But wretched Man most willingly obey'd . Rebellion taken Root , like Evil Weeds Did grow , from Thought to Words , then heinous Deeds . Behold where Satan lies ! what pains he takes To blow the Flames , and vast confusion makes . He at the Root does like a Serpent lurk , Seeking to set his Engines all at work ; To make desention both in Church and State , And all through very hope of being grea All in disorder by common [ ? ] Till Ruin had the Nation overspread . We see in part by what they took in hand , They'd slay the Subject's to preserve the Land : But see the just reward of their outrage , They are become Examples of this Age . When from Rebellion all their hope's does flow , The hand of Justice gives the fatal Blow : The Figure here does fairly represent The final Fallen of Traitors Insolent . Observe the Root , there Satan he ensnares , Behold the Tree , and see what Fruit she bears ! With lofty Arms she all her Branches spreads , Her chiefest Fruit she bears , is Traitors Heads . By Treason they their own destruction wrought , And at the length was here to Justice brought . Those that behold their fatal destiny , Keeping the Paths of Love and Loyalty ; Then Peace and Plenty daily will increase , And all the Land be fill'd with Joy and Peace . Let Loyalty be found through all the Land , And e'ry Subject in obedience stand : To Royal JAMES , our Gracious Sovereign Lord , Let all the Nation pray with one accord : That those which shall succeed from Age to Age , May never see the like of this outrage ; But be preserv'd from violence secure , So long as shall the Sun and Moon endure . This may be Printed , R.P. LONDON Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street 1686. 