And Excellent Ditty , called the Shepherd's wooing Dulcina . Tune is , Dulcina AS at noon Dulcina rested , in her sweet and shady Bower , Came a Shepherd and requested , in her arms to sleep and hour : But from her look , A wound he took , so far that for a farther boon , The Nymph he prays , Wherefore she says , Forgo me now , come to me soon . But in vain she did conjure him , for to leave her presence so , Having thousand means to allure him , and but one to let him go ; Where Lips invite , And eyes delight , and Cheeks as fresh as Rose in June , Persuades to stay , What boots to say , Forgo me now , etc Words , whose hope's have now enjoined , him to let Dulcina sleep , Could a men love be confined , or a Maid her promise keep ? No , for her waste , He held as fast , as she was constant to her tune ; And still she spoke , For Cupids sake , Forgo me now , etc He demands what time or leisure , can there be more fit then now ; She says , men may say their pleasure , yet I of it do not allow . The Suns clear light , Shines more bright , quoth he more fairer then the Moon , For her to praise , He loves he says , Forgo me now , etc But no promise nor profession , from his hands to purchase scope ; Who would fell the sweet possession of such a beauty for a hope . Or for the sighed Of lingering night , forgo the pleasant joys of noon ; Though none so fair , Her speeches were , Forgo me now , etc Now at last agreed these Lovers , she was fair and he was young , If you'l believe me I will tell you , true Love fixed lasteth long : He said my Dear , My Love not fear , bright Phoebus beams outshines the Moon , Dulcina prays , And to him says , Forgo me now , etc DAy was spent , and night approach'd Venus fair was Lovers friend , She entreated bright Apollo , that his Steeds their raze might end , He could not say , This Goddess nay , But granted loves fair Queen her boon , The Shepherd came , To this fair Dame , Forgo me now , come to me soon . Sweet he said , as I did promise , I am now return'd again , Long delay ( you know ) breeds danger , and to Lovers breeds pain , The Nymph said then , Above all men , Still welcome Shepherd morn or noon , The Shepherd prays , Dulcina says , Shepherd I doubt thou'rt come too soon . When that bright Aurora blushed , came the Shepherd to his dear , Pretty Birds most sweet warbled , and the noon approached near , Yet still away , The Nymph did say , The Shepherd he fell in a swonnd , At length she said , Be not afraid , forgo me now , etc With grief of heart the Shepherd hasted up the Mountains to his flocks , Then he took a Reed and piped , echo sounded through the Rocks : Thus did he Play , And wished the day , Were spent , & night were come e'r noon , The silent night , Is Loves delight , I'll go to fair Dulcina soon . Beauteous Darling fair Dulcina , like to Venus for her Love , Spent away the day in passion , mourning like the Turtle-Dove , Melodiously , Notes low and high , She warbled forth this doleful tune , O come again , Sweet Shepherd Swain , Thou canst not be with me too soon . When that Thetis in her Palace , had receiv'd the Prince of light , Came in Corydon the Shepherd , to his Love and hearts delight , Then Pan did play , The Wood-nymphs they , Did skip and dance to hear the tune , Hymen did say , 'Tis Holiday , Forgo me now , come to me soon . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . And Excellent Ditty , called the Shepherd's wooing Dulcina . Tune is , Dulcina AS at noon Dulcina rested , in her sweet and shady Bower , Came a Shepherd and requested , in her arms to sleep and hour : But from her look , A wound he took , so far that for a farther boon , The Nymph he prays , Wherefore she says , Forgo me now , come to me soon . But in vain she did conjure him , for to leave her presence so , Having thousand means to allure him , and but one to let him go ; Where Lips invite , And eyes delight , and Cheeks as fresh as Rose in June , Persuades to stay , What boots to say , Forgo me now , etc Words , whose hope's have now enjoined , him to let Dulcina sleep , Could a men love be confined , or a Maid her promise keep ? No , for her waste , He held as fast , as she was constant to her tune ; And still she spoke , For Cupids sake , Forgo me now , etc He demands what time or leisure , can there be more fit then now ; She says , men may say their pleasure , yet I of it do not allow . The Suns clear light , Shines more bright , quoth he more fairer then the Moon , For her to praise , He loves he says , Forgo me now , etc But no promise nor profession , from his hands to purchase scope ; Who would fell the sweet possession of such a beauty for a hope . Or for the sighed Of lingering night , forgo the pleasant joys of noon ; Though none so fair , Her speeches were , Forgo me now , etc Now at last agreed these Lovers , she was fair and he was young , If you'l believe me I will tell you , true Love fixed lasteth long : He said my Dear , My Love not fear , bright Phoebus beams outshines the Moon , Dulcina prays , And to him says , Forgo me now , etc DAy was spent , and night approach'd Venus fair was Lovers friend , She entreated bright Apollo , that his Steeds their raze might end , He could not say , This Goddess nay , But granted loves fair Queen her boon , The Shepherd came , To this fair Dame , Forgo me now , come to me soon . Sweet he said , as I did promise , I am now return'd again , Long delay ( you know ) breeds danger , and to Lovers breeds pain , The Nymph said then , Above all men , Still welcome Shepherd morn or noon , The Shepherd prays , Dulcina says , Shepherd I doubt thou'rt come too soon . When that bright Aurora blushed , came the Shepherd to his dear , Pretty Birds most sweet warbled , and the noon approached near , Yet still away , The Nymph did say , The Shepherd he fell in a swonnd , At length she said , Be not afraid , forgo me now , etc With grief of heart the Shepherd hasted up the Mountains to his flocks , Then he took a Reed and piped , echo sounded through the Rocks : Thus did he Play , And wished the day , Were spent , & night were come e'r noon , The silent night , Is Loves delight , I'll go to fair Dulcina soon . Beauteous Darling fair Dulcina , like to Venus for her Love , Spent away the day in passion , mourning like the Turtle-Dove , Melodiously , Notes low and high , She warbled forth this doleful tune , O come again , Sweet Shepherd Swain , Thou canst not be with me too soon . When that Thetis in her Palace , had receiv'd the Prince of light , Came in Corydon the Shepherd , to his Love and hearts delight , Then Pan did play , The Wood-nymphs they , Did skip and dance to hear the tune , Hymen did say , 'Tis Holiday , Forgo me now , come to me soon . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 