The Secret Lover . OR : The Jealous Father Beguil'd . Loves passion is not easily kept under , Nor faithful Lovers to be kept asunder ; Because you know the Proverb it is so , That Love will creep , when as it cannot go . To a West-Countrey Tune ; Or , Alack for my love I must die . A Dainty spruce young Gallant , that lived in the West , He courted a young Lady , and real love profess And coming one night to her , his mind he thus expressed ; And sing go from my Window love go . What is my Love a sleeping , or is my Love awake ? Who knocketh at the Window , who knocketh there so late ? It is your true love Lady , that for your sake does wait , And sing go from the Window love go . Then open me your Father's Gate and do not me deny ; But grant to me your true love , or surely I shall die : I dare not open now the Gates , for fear my Father spy ; And sing go from my window love go . O Dearest be not daunted , thou needest not to fear ; Thy Father may be sleeping , our loves he shall not hear : Then open it without delay , my joy and only Dear . And sing go from the window go . MY Father he does watch me , his jealousy is so : If he should chance to catch me , Oh then what should we do ? Therefore I dare not venture , my dear to open now . And sing go from my window love go . I wish there were no Hinges , nor yet no Key nor Lock ; That I might come unto my love , now she is in her Smock : Oh peace and be contented , I hear my Father knock : And sing go from my window go . O Daughter dear why are you out of your Bed so late ; Oh Father I am very sick , and in distressed state : Methinks I hear some body under your Window prate : And sing go from my window go . O Father 'tis the Watchmen , this Evening passing by ; Hark-how a faithful Lover , can frame a pretty lie : Oh Daughter I command you unto your Bed to high : And sing go from , etc Dear Father I obey you , and quickly I am gone ; But yet I am not willing to leave my Love alone : So soon as you are Sleeping , I down again will come : And sing go from , etc And then she sent her Maiden unto her Chamber straight ; And came unto her true Love , who at the Door did wai And open'd him the Wicked , for all it was so late : And sing go from , etc Then softly he did enter , and to the Lady said : My Love there is no Danger , we cannot be betray'd : Let us enjoy our Pleasure , and never be afraid : And sing go from , etc And thus this Faithful Couple , their wishes had at last , For all her Jealous Father , the sweets of love they taste : And when the day appeared , her Love away did haste : And sing go from my window love go . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . The Secret Lover . OR : The Jealous Father Beguil'd . Loves passion is not easily kept under , Nor faithful Lovers to be kept asunder ; Because you know the Proverb it is so , That Love will creep , when as it cannot go . To a West-Countrey Tune ; Or , Alack for my love I must die . A Dainty spruce young Gallant , that lived in the West , He courted a young Lady , and real love profess And coming one night to her , his mind he thus expressed ; And sing go from my Window love go . What is my Love a sleeping , or is my Love awake ? Who knocketh at the Window , who knocketh there so late ? It is your true love Lady , that for your sake does wait , And sing go from the Window love go . Then open me your Father's Gate and do not me deny ; But grant to me your true love , or surely I shall die : I dare not open now the Gates , for fear my Father spy ; And sing go from my window love go . O Dearest be not daunted , thou needest not to fear ; Thy Father may be sleeping , our loves he shall not hear : Then open it without delay , my joy and only Dear . And sing go from the window go . MY Father he does watch me , his jealousy is so : If he should chance to catch me , Oh then what should we do ? Therefore I dare not venture , my dear to open now . And sing go from my window love go . I wish there were no Hinges , nor yet no Key nor Lock ; That I might come unto my love , now she is in her Smock : Oh peace and be contented , I hear my Father knock : And sing go from my window go . O Daughter dear why are you out of your Bed so late ; Oh Father I am very sick , and in distressed state : Methinks I hear some body under your Window prate : And sing go from my window go . O Father 'tis the Watchmen , this Evening passing by ; Hark-how a faithful Lover , can frame a pretty lie : Oh Daughter I command you unto your Bed to high : And sing go from , etc Dear Father I obey you , and quickly I am gone ; But yet I am not willing to leave my Love alone : So soon as you are Sleeping , I down again will come : And sing go from , etc And then she sent her Maiden unto her Chamber straight ; And came unto her true Love , who at the Door did wai And open'd him the Wicked , for all it was so late : And sing go from , etc Then softly he did enter , and to the Lady said : My Love there is no Danger , we cannot be betray'd : Let us enjoy our Pleasure , and never be afraid : And sing go from , etc And thus this Faithful Couple , their wishes had at last , For all her Jealous Father , the sweets of love they taste : And when the day appeared , her Love away did haste : And sing go from my window love go . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 