The Northern LORD . In FOUR PARTS . PART I . A Noble Lord of high renown Two daughters had ; the eldest brown , The youngst beautiful and fair . By chance a noble Knight came there . Her father said , kind sir , I have Two daughters , which do you crave ? One that is beautiful , he cry'd , The noble knight he then reply'd : She's young she's beautiful and gay , And is not to be giv'n away . But as jewels are bought and sold , She shall bring me her weight in gold . The price I think you need not grudge , Since I will freely give as much With her one sister , if I can Find out some other nobleman . With that bespoke the noble knight , 'd sooner have the beauty bright At that vast rate , renowned lord . Then then the other with a vast reward , So then the bargain it was made , But e'er the money could be paid , He had it of a wealthy Jew , The sum so large , the writings drew That if he fail'd , or miss'd the day , So many ounces he should pay . Of his own flesh , instead of gold , All was agreed , the sum was told . So he return'd immediately , Unto the lord , where he did buy His daughter fine , I do declare . And paid him down the money there , He bought her too , it was well known Unto mankind she was his own . By her a son he did enjoy . A sweet and comely handsome boy , At length the time of pay drew near When the knight did begin to fear ; He dreaded much the cruel Jew Because the money it was due . His lady ask'd him Why he griev'd ? He said , My jewel , I receiv'd Such a sum of money of a Jew , And now the money it is due , And now the day of payment's come , I'm sure I cannot raise the sum , He'll have my flesh , weight for weight , Which makes my grief and sorrow great . Tush ! never fear him , she reply'd We'll cross the raging ocean wide And so secure you from the fate , To her request he yielded strait . PART II THEN having pass'd the raging seas ; They travel'd on , 'till by degrees Unto the Germane court he came , The knight his son , and comely dame . Unto the Emperor he told His story of the sum of gold , That he had borrow'd of a Jew , And that for fear of death he flew . The Emperor he did erect A court for them and shew'd respect Unto his guests , because they came From BRITON , that blessed land of fame . As here he lived in delight , A Dutch lord told our English knight . That he a tun of gold would lay , He could enjoy his lady gay . From her the lord he was to bring A rich and costly diamond-ring , That was to prove and testify How he did with his lady lie . He tries , but never could obtain Her favour but with high disdain ; She did abhor his base intent , So to her chambermaid he went . And told her if she would but steal Her lady's ring and to conceal The same , and bring it to him strait , She should enjoy a fine estate , In hope's of such a fine reward The ring she stole , then the Dutch lord Did take it to the noble knight Who almost swooned at the sighed . Home he goes to the lady strait Meeting her at the palace gate , He flung her headlong into the mote . And left her there to sink or float . Soon after that in clothes of green , She like a warlike knight was seen , And in most gallant gay deport She road unto the Emperor's court Now when the Emperor beheld Her brave deportment , he was fill'd With admiration at the sighed , Who call'd herself and English knight . The Emperor did then reply , We have and English knight to die , For drowning of his lady gay , Quoth she , I'd see him , if I may . 'Twas granted , so to him she came , And calling of him by his name , She said , Kind sir , be of good cheer Your friend I'll be you need not fear . PART III , SHE to the Empeor did ride , And said , Now let this cause be try'd , Once more , for I've a mind to save This noble gallant from the grave . It being done , the court was set , The Dutch lord came , seeming to fret About the ring , seeming to fear , How truth world make his shame appear And so it did , for soon they call The maid , who on kees did fallen , Before the court and did confess The Dutch lord's unworthiness , The court reply'd , Is it so ? The lady too for ought we know , May be alive , therefore we'll stay The sentence till another day . Now the Dutch lord gave him a tun Of Gold which he had justly wone ; And so he did with shame and grief , And thus the knight obtain'd relief . The Dutch lord to revenge the spite Upon our noble English knight , Did send a letter out of hand , And so Jew did understand , How he was in a Germane Court . So here upon this good report , The Jew he cross'd the ocean wide , Resolving to be satisfied . Soon as e'er he fix'd his eyes Unto the knight , in wrath he cries . Your hand and seal I pray behold : Your flesh I'll have instead of gold . Said the noble knight in green , Sir , may not your articles be seen ? Yes , that they may reply'd the Jew , And I resolve to have my endue . Lo then the knight began to read , At length she said , I find indeed , Nothing but flesh you are to have , Answers the Jew , That's all I crave . The poor distressed knight was brought , The bloody-minded Jew he thought That day to be revenged on him , And part his flesh from ev'ry limb . The knight in green said , Mr. Jew , There's nothing else but flesh your due , Then see no drop of ; blood you shed , For if you do off goes your head , Pray take your due with all my heart , But with his blood we will not part . With that the Jew sneaked away , And had not one word more to say . PART IV , NO sooner were these troubles past , But his wife's father came at last , Resolving for to have his life . For drowning his beloved wife . Over the seas her father brought Many brave horses : One was bought By the pretended knight in green . Which was the best that e're was seen , So to the Germane court he came , Declaring such a one by name , Had drowned his fair daughter dear , And ought to die a death severe , They brought him from the prison then , Guarded by many armed men , Unto the place where he must die . And the young knight was standing by , And from her side her sword he drew , And run her gelding thro' and thro' , Her father said , Why do you so ? I may , it is my own , you know , You sold your gelding , 'tis well kn [ owe ] n , I bought it , making it my own ; And may do what I please with it , And then to her he did submit . Here is a man arraign'd and cast , And brought to suffer death at last , Because your daughter dear he slew ; Which if he did , what's that to you . You had your money when you sold Your daughter for her weight in gold ; Wherefore he might , it is well known . Do what he pleased with his own . So having chang'd her garments green , And dressed herself like a fair queen , Her father and her husband strait Both knew her and their joys were great . Soon they did carry this report Unto the famous German-Court , How the renowned English knight Had found his charming lady bright . So the Emrpeor , and the lords of fame With cheerful hearts they did proclaim , And universal joy to see His lady's life at liberty . Printed and sold in Aldermary Church-Yard Bow-Lane LONDON . st The Northern LORD . In FOUR PARTS . PART I . A Noble Lord of high renown Two daughters had ; the eldest brown , The youngst beautiful and fair . By chance a noble Knight came there . Her father said , kind sir , I have Two daughters , which do you crave ? One that is beautiful , he cry'd , The noble knight he then reply'd : She's young she's beautiful and gay , And is not to be giv'n away . But as jewels are bought and sold , She shall bring me her weight in gold . The price I think you need not grudge , Since I will freely give as much With her one sister , if I can Find out some other nobleman . With that bespoke the noble knight , 'd sooner have the beauty bright At that vast rate , renowned lord . Then then the other with a vast reward , So then the bargain it was made , But e'er the money could be paid , He had it of a wealthy Jew , The sum so large , the writings drew That if he fail'd , or miss'd the day , So many ounces he should pay . Of his own flesh , instead of gold , All was agreed , the sum was told . So he return'd immediately , Unto the lord , where he did buy His daughter fine , I do declare . And paid him down the money there , He bought her too , it was well known Unto mankind she was his own . By her a son he did enjoy . A sweet and comely handsome boy , At length the time of pay drew near When the knight did begin to fear ; He dreaded much the cruel Jew Because the money it was due . His lady ask'd him Why he griev'd ? He said , My jewel , I receiv'd Such a sum of money of a Jew , And now the money it is due , And now the day of payment's come , I'm sure I cannot raise the sum , He'll have my flesh , weight for weight , Which makes my grief and sorrow great . Tush ! never fear him , she reply'd We'll cross the raging ocean wide And so secure you from the fate , To her request he yielded strait . PART II THEN having pass'd the raging seas ; They travel'd on , 'till by degrees Unto the Germane court he came , The knight his son , and comely dame . Unto the Emperor he told His story of the sum of gold , That he had borrow'd of a Jew , And that for fear of death he flew . The Emperor he did erect A court for them and shew'd respect Unto his guests , because they came From BRITON , that blessed land of fame . As here he lived in delight , A Dutch lord told our English knight . That he a tun of gold would lay , He could enjoy his lady gay . From her the lord he was to bring A rich and costly diamond-ring , That was to prove and testify How he did with his lady lie . He tries , but never could obtain Her favour but with high disdain ; She did abhor his base intent , So to her chambermaid he went . And told her if she would but steal Her lady's ring and to conceal The same , and bring it to him strait , She should enjoy a fine estate , In hope's of such a fine reward The ring she stole , then the Dutch lord Did take it to the noble knight Who almost swooned at the sighed . Home he goes to the lady strait Meeting her at the palace gate , He flung her headlong into the mote . And left her there to sink or float . Soon after that in clothes of green , She like a warlike knight was seen , And in most gallant gay deport She road unto the Emperor's court Now when the Emperor beheld Her brave deportment , he was fill'd With admiration at the sighed , Who call'd herself and English knight . The Emperor did then reply , We have and English knight to die , For drowning of his lady gay , Quoth she , I'd see him , if I may . 'Twas granted , so to him she came , And calling of him by his name , She said , Kind sir , be of good cheer Your friend I'll be you need not fear . PART III , SHE to the Empeor did ride , And said , Now let this cause be try'd , Once more , for I've a mind to save This noble gallant from the grave . It being done , the court was set , The Dutch lord came , seeming to fret About the ring , seeming to fear , How truth world make his shame appear And so it did , for soon they call The maid , who on kees did fallen , Before the court and did confess The Dutch lord's unworthiness , The court reply'd , Is it so ? The lady too for ought we know , May be alive , therefore we'll stay The sentence till another day . Now the Dutch lord gave him a tun Of Gold which he had justly wone ; And so he did with shame and grief , And thus the knight obtain'd relief . The Dutch lord to revenge the spite Upon our noble English knight , Did send a letter out of hand , And so Jew did understand , How he was in a Germane Court . So here upon this good report , The Jew he cross'd the ocean wide , Resolving to be satisfied . Soon as e'er he fix'd his eyes Unto the knight , in wrath he cries . Your hand and seal I pray behold : Your flesh I'll have instead of gold . Said the noble knight in green , Sir , may not your articles be seen ? Yes , that they may reply'd the Jew , And I resolve to have my endue . Lo then the knight began to read , At length she said , I find indeed , Nothing but flesh you are to have , Answers the Jew , That's all I crave . The poor distressed knight was brought , The bloody-minded Jew he thought That day to be revenged on him , And part his flesh from ev'ry limb . The knight in green said , Mr. Jew , There's nothing else but flesh your due , Then see no drop of ; blood you shed , For if you do off goes your head , Pray take your due with all my heart , But with his blood we will not part . With that the Jew sneaked away , And had not one word more to say . PART IV , NO sooner were these troubles past , But his wife's father came at last , Resolving for to have his life . For drowning his beloved wife . Over the seas her father brought Many brave horses : One was bought By the pretended knight in green . Which was the best that e're was seen , So to the Germane court he came , Declaring such a one by name , Had drowned his fair daughter dear , And ought to die a death severe , They brought him from the prison then , Guarded by many armed men , Unto the place where he must die . And the young knight was standing by , And from her side her sword he drew , And run her gelding thro' and thro' , Her father said , Why do you so ? I may , it is my own , you know , You sold your gelding , 'tis well kn [ owe ] n , I bought it , making it my own ; And may do what I please with it , And then to her he did submit . Here is a man arraign'd and cast , And brought to suffer death at last , Because your daughter dear he slew ; Which if he did , what's that to you . You had your money when you sold Your daughter for her weight in gold ; Wherefore he might , it is well known . Do what he pleased with his own . So having chang'd her garments green , And dressed herself like a fair queen , Her father and her husband strait Both knew her and their joys were great . Soon they did carry this report Unto the famous German-Court , How the renowned English knight Had found his charming lady bright . So the Emrpeor , and the lords of fame With cheerful hearts they did proclaim , And universal joy to see His lady's life at liberty . Printed and sold in Aldermary Church-Yard Bow-Lane LONDON . st 