THE NOBLEMAN's Generous KINDNESS : OR , The Poor Country MAN's unexpected HAPPINESS . GIVING And Account of a Nobleman , who taking Notice of a poor Man's industrious Care and Pains for the maintaining of his Charge of Seven small Children , met him upon a Day , and discoursing with him , invited him and his Wife , with his Children , home to his House , and bestowed upon them a Farm of Thirty Acres of Land , to be continued to him and his Heirs for ever . To the Tune of , The two English Traveller . A Nobleman liv'd near a Village of late , Hard by a poor Thresher , whose Charge it was great ; He had seven Children , and most of them small , And nought but his Labour to keep them withal . He never was given to Idle and Lurk , For this Nobleman saw him go daily to Work , With his Flail and his Bag , and his Bottle of Beer , As cheerful as those that had Hundreds a Year . Thus careful and constant each Morning he went , To his daily Labour with Joy and Content ; Jocund and jolly , he'd both whistle and sing , As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the Spring , One Morning the Nobleman taking his Walk , He met with the poor Man , and freely did talk ; He ask'd him many a Question at large , Familiarly talking concerning his Charge . Thou hast many Children I very well know , Thy Labour is hard , and thy Wages are low ; And yet thou art cheerful , I pray thee tell true , How do you maintain them so well as you do ? He answer'd , I carry home all that I earn , And daily Experience by this I do learn , That though it is possible we may live poor , We still keep the ravenous Wolf from the Door . I reap and I mow , I harrow and sow ; Sometime I to hedging and ditching do go : No Work comes a miss , for I thresh and I blow ; Thus I earn my Bred my the Sweet of my Brow. My Wife she is willing to pull at the Yoke , We live like two Lambs and we never provoke Each other , but like to the labouring Ant , We do our Endeavour to keep us from Want . And when I come home from Labour at Night . To my Wife and Children in whom I delight ; To hear them come round we with prattling Noise , 'Tis these are the Riches that poor Men enjoys . Though I am weary as weary may be , The youngest I commonly dance on my Knee ; [ I ] find that Content is and absolute Feast , I never repine at my Charge in the least . The Nobleman hearing then what he did say Was pleased and invited him home the next Day ; His Wife and his Children he charg'd him to bring , In Token of Favour he gave him a Ring . Then thanking his Honour and taking his Leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe ; But that this strange Story himself he might raise , Yet seeing the Ring , she was in Amaze . Betimes in the Morning the good Wife arose , And made them all fine with the best of their Clothes ; The good Man and Wife with their Children small , They went to dine at the Nobleman's Hall . So when they came there , the Truth to report , All Things were prepar'd in a plentiful Sort ; And they at the Nobleman's Table did dine , With all Sorts of Dainties , and Plenty of Wine , All this being over he soon let him know , What he intended on him to bestow ; A Farm , full thirty good Acres of Land , And gave him the Writings then with his own Hand . Because thou art careful and good to thy Wife , I'll make thy Days happy the rest of thy Life : It shall be for ever to thee and thy Heirs , For why , I beheld thy industrious Cares . No Tongue then was able to express , The Depth of their Joy and true Thankfulness ; With many a Courtesy and Bow to the Ground , But such Noblemen there are few to be found . Newcastle : Printed and sold by Robert Marchbank . THE NOBLEMAN's Generous KINDNESS : OR , The Poor Country MAN's unexpected HAPPINESS . GIVING And Account of a Nobleman , who taking Notice of a poor Man's industrious Care and Pains for the maintaining of his Charge of Seven small Children , met him upon a Day , and discoursing with him , invited him and his Wife , with his Children , home to his House , and bestowed upon them a Farm of Thirty Acres of Land , to be continued to him and his Heirs for ever . To the Tune of , The two English Traveller . A Nobleman liv'd near a Village of late , Hard by a poor Thresher , whose Charge it was great ; He had seven Children , and most of them small , And nought but his Labour to keep them withal . He never was given to Idle and Lurk , For this Nobleman saw him go daily to Work , With his Flail and his Bag , and his Bottle of Beer , As cheerful as those that had Hundreds a Year . Thus careful and constant each Morning he went , To his daily Labour with Joy and Content ; Jocund and jolly , he'd both whistle and sing , As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the Spring , One Morning the Nobleman taking his Walk , He met with the poor Man , and freely did talk ; He ask'd him many a Question at large , Familiarly talking concerning his Charge . Thou hast many Children I very well know , Thy Labour is hard , and thy Wages are low ; And yet thou art cheerful , I pray thee tell true , How do you maintain them so well as you do ? He answer'd , I carry home all that I earn , And daily Experience by this I do learn , That though it is possible we may live poor , We still keep the ravenous Wolf from the Door . I reap and I mow , I harrow and sow ; Sometime I to hedging and ditching do go : No Work comes a miss , for I thresh and I blow ; Thus I earn my Bred my the Sweet of my Brow. My Wife she is willing to pull at the Yoke , We live like two Lambs and we never provoke Each other , but like to the labouring Ant , We do our Endeavour to keep us from Want . And when I come home from Labour at Night . To my Wife and Children in whom I delight ; To hear them come round we with prattling Noise , 'Tis these are the Riches that poor Men enjoys . Though I am weary as weary may be , The youngest I commonly dance on my Knee ; [ I ] find that Content is and absolute Feast , I never repine at my Charge in the least . The Nobleman hearing then what he did say Was pleased and invited him home the next Day ; His Wife and his Children he charg'd him to bring , In Token of Favour he gave him a Ring . Then thanking his Honour and taking his Leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe ; But that this strange Story himself he might raise , Yet seeing the Ring , she was in Amaze . Betimes in the Morning the good Wife arose , And made them all fine with the best of their Clothes ; The good Man and Wife with their Children small , They went to dine at the Nobleman's Hall . So when they came there , the Truth to report , All Things were prepar'd in a plentiful Sort ; And they at the Nobleman's Table did dine , With all Sorts of Dainties , and Plenty of Wine , All this being over he soon let him know , What he intended on him to bestow ; A Farm , full thirty good Acres of Land , And gave him the Writings then with his own Hand . Because thou art careful and good to thy Wife , I'll make thy Days happy the rest of thy Life : It shall be for ever to thee and thy Heirs , For why , I beheld thy industrious Cares . No Tongue then was able to express , The Depth of their Joy and true Thankfulness ; With many a Courtesy and Bow to the Ground , But such Noblemen there are few to be found . Newcastle : Printed and sold by Robert Marchbank . 