A Marvelous Medicine to cure a great Pain , If a Maidenhead be lost to get it again , ONce busy in study betwixt night and day With choice of inventions I had in my mind , And many odd matters my mind did assay , But any to please me I could not well find , Then suddenly casting my nose in the wind , I smelled out a Medicine both precious and plain , How to help silly maidens that have been somewhat kind To get by good order their Maiden head again . First the Maid must be brought into a sleep , For seven days together before she awake . And seven days after this diet must keep , with these kind of compounds the which she must take She must not eat neither rost meat Sod neither bake But all kind of dainties she must refrain , Save only the Medicine which if she take . then it will restore , etc The first day give her the slime of and Eale Blown through a bag : pipe with the wind of a bladder With two or three turnings of a Spinning wheel , Boyl'd in and Eggshell and strain'd through a Ladder , The Tongue of and Urchin the sting of and Adder , Boiled in a blanket in a shower of Rain , With seven notes of Music to make her the gladder And it wlll , etc The second day give her the peeping of a Mouse , With the drops of Thunder that falls from the sky , And temper it with three leaps of a louse , And put thereon three skips of a fly . With a gallon of water from a widows eye . That weeps for her husband when death hath him slave Let her take this Medicine and drink by and by , And it will , etc The third day give her the chattering of a Sparrow Roasted in a mitten of untan'd Leather , Give it her with the rumbling of a wheelbarrow , And baste it with three yards of black Swans Feather The juice of a whetstone therein put together , With a fart of a Fryer brought hither from Spain , Let her lay all this in and ell of louse Leather . And lay warm to her belly to cure her great pain . The fourth day give her the Song of a Swallow , Well tempered with marrow wrung out of a Log With three pound and better of stock fish Tallow , Hard try'd in the left horn of a blue butchers Dog . With the gaggling of a Goose and three frisks of a frog The hill of a shovel and and humble Bees brain , Give her this fasting with the grunting of a hog . And it will , etc , The fift day give her betwixt eight and nine , Some gruel of grantham boyl'd for the nonce , The brains of a bird bolt powdered very fine , And beatrice in a Mortar of Genny Rens bones . Boiled in a Nutshell betwixt two Millstones . With the guts of a Gudgin before she be slave , Let her besure to take all this at once , And it will , etc Now mark well the sixt day what must be her trade She must have a woodcock a snip or a quail , Bakt fine in and Oven before it be made . And mingle it with the blood of a Snale . With four or five inches of a Jack a napes tail . What though for a while it put her to pain , Yet let her take this without any fail And it will . etc The seventh day give her a pound of maids mocks Bray'd in a basket of danger and blame With conserves of coleworts bound in a box . To comfort her stomach with syrup of shame Although she be passed all hope of good name . And to her honesty a very great stain , Let her take this to remedy the same And it will , etc : Lo these are our Medicines for Maidens each one Which in their Virginity amiss somewhat fell : Pray if ever you hear them make moan And gladly would know the place where I dwell At the sign of the whip and Eggshell Near Pancake Alley on Salisbury plain There shall they find remedy using this well Or else ne'r recover their Maiden head agam [ in . ] A Marvelous Medicine to cure a great Pain , If a Maidenhead be lost to get it again , ONce busy in study betwixt night and day With choice of inventions I had in my mind , And many odd matters my mind did assay , But any to please me I could not well find , Then suddenly casting my nose in the wind , I smelled out a Medicine both precious and plain , How to help silly maidens that have been somewhat kind To get by good order their Maiden head again . First the Maid must be brought into a sleep , For seven days together before she awake . And seven days after this diet must keep , with these kind of compounds the which she must take She must not eat neither rost meat Sod neither bake But all kind of dainties she must refrain , Save only the Medicine which if she take . then it will restore , etc The first day give her the slime of and Eale Blown through a bag : pipe with the wind of a bladder With two or three turnings of a Spinning wheel , Boyl'd in and Eggshell and strain'd through a Ladder , The Tongue of and Urchin the sting of and Adder , Boiled in a blanket in a shower of Rain , With seven notes of Music to make her the gladder And it wlll , etc The second day give her the peeping of a Mouse , With the drops of Thunder that falls from the sky , And temper it with three leaps of a louse , And put thereon three skips of a fly . With a gallon of water from a widows eye . That weeps for her husband when death hath him slave Let her take this Medicine and drink by and by , And it will , etc The third day give her the chattering of a Sparrow Roasted in a mitten of untan'd Leather , Give it her with the rumbling of a wheelbarrow , And baste it with three yards of black Swans Feather The juice of a whetstone therein put together , With a fart of a Fryer brought hither from Spain , Let her lay all this in and ell of louse Leather . And lay warm to her belly to cure her great pain . The fourth day give her the Song of a Swallow , Well tempered with marrow wrung out of a Log With three pound and better of stock fish Tallow , Hard try'd in the left horn of a blue butchers Dog . With the gaggling of a Goose and three frisks of a frog The hill of a shovel and and humble Bees brain , Give her this fasting with the grunting of a hog . And it will , etc , The fift day give her betwixt eight and nine , Some gruel of grantham boyl'd for the nonce , The brains of a bird bolt powdered very fine , And beatrice in a Mortar of Genny Rens bones . Boiled in a Nutshell betwixt two Millstones . With the guts of a Gudgin before she be slave , Let her besure to take all this at once , And it will , etc Now mark well the sixt day what must be her trade She must have a woodcock a snip or a quail , Bakt fine in and Oven before it be made . And mingle it with the blood of a Snale . With four or five inches of a Jack a napes tail . What though for a while it put her to pain , Yet let her take this without any fail And it will . etc The seventh day give her a pound of maids mocks Bray'd in a basket of danger and blame With conserves of coleworts bound in a box . To comfort her stomach with syrup of shame Although she be passed all hope of good name . And to her honesty a very great stain , Let her take this to remedy the same And it will , etc : Lo these are our Medicines for Maidens each one Which in their Virginity amiss somewhat fell : Pray if ever you hear them make moan And gladly would know the place where I dwell At the sign of the whip and Eggshell Near Pancake Alley on Salisbury plain There shall they find remedy using this well Or else ne'r recover their Maiden head agam [ in . ] 