Sack for my Money : Or , A Description of the operation of Sack that is still'd in the Spanish Nation : Then buy it , deny it , Like it or leave it , Not one among ten but is willing to have it . The tune is , Wet and weary . GOod Fellows all both great and small , rejoice at this my Ditty , While I do sing , good news I bring , to the Country and the City ; Let every Lad and Lass be glad , ( for who will true Love smother ) And being here my joy and dear , we'l kindly kiss each other : The purest Wine so brisk and fine , the Alligant and Sherry , I hold it good to purge the blood , and make the senses merry . This sparkling Sack that binds the back , and cherishes the heart boys , For recompense just eighteen pence , you must give for a Quart boys ; Away with Beer and such like geer , that makes our spirits muddy , For Wine complete will do the feat , that we all notes can study , The purest Wine so brisk and fine , etc Rich Malligo is pure I know to purge out Melancholy , And he that's sick it cureth quick , and makes their senses jolly , It rarefies the dullest eyes , of those that are most paler , And bravely can compose a man of a very Prick-lows Taylor . The richest Wine so brisk and fine , etc The merest fool shall teach a School by Clarets operation , And make some fight like men of might , or Champions of a Nation , It is more fine then Brandewine , the Butterboxes Poison , Who drinking dares , in Neptunes wars , reign Master of the Ocean , Canary Sack makes firm the back , both Alligant and Sherry , Are proved good to clear the blood , and make the senses merry . A longing Lass , whose Custerd-face , her inward grief discloses , With drinking Wine so sweet and fine , will gain a pair of Roses ; It does revive dead folks alive , and helps their former weakness , It is so pure that it does cure , a Maiden of her sickness , This Rhenish Wine so brisk and fine , etc The Drawar still the same shall fill , to elevate the heart boys , For Rhenish gay you now must pay , just twelve pence for a Quart boys : Who would be ty'de to Brewers side , whose measures do so vary , When we may fit to raise our wit , with drinking of Canary , The purest Wine , etc THe French Wine pure for 7. pence surr you shall have choice and plenty , At this same rate to drink in Plate , which is both good and dainty : A manding Cove that does it love , 'twill make him dance and caper , And Captain Puff will have enough , to make him brag and vapor , The purest Wine so brisk and fine , the Alligant and Sherry , I hold it good to purge the blood , and make the senses merry . And also we that do agree , as one , for boon good fellows , We'l sing and laugh and stoutly quaff , and quite renounce the Alehouse , For Ale and Beer are now both dear , the price is rais'd in either , Then let us all both great and small , toth' Tavern walk together : The purest Wine , etc The Tradesman may at any day , for their own recreation , Be welcome still to Ralph or Will , and have accommodation , For why their Coin will buy the Wine , and cause a running Barrel , But if you'r drunk your wits are sunk , and gorrill'd guts will quarrel . The purest Wine , etc The Cobbler fast will stay the last , for he's a lusty drinker , He'l pawn his soul to have a Bowl , to drink to Tom the Tinker : The Broomman he will be as free , to drink courageous stashes , If Coal grow scant , before he'l want , he'l burn his Brooms to ashes . The purest Wine , etc The Fiddling Crowd that grows so proud , will pawn their Pipes and Fiddles , They'l strike and crack with bowls of Sack , and cut the queerest whiddles . They'l rant and tear like men of War , they voices roars like Thunder , And growing cursed their Fiddles burst , and breaks 'um all asunder . The purest Wine , etc The Country Blades with their own Maids at every merry meetings , For Ale and Cakes at their Town Wakes , which they did give their Sweetings , Upon their friends a Crown will spend , in Sack that is so trusty , 'Twill please a Maid that is decay'd , and make a Booby lusty : Be rul'd by me and we'l agree , to drink both Sack and Sherry , For that is good to cleanse the blood , and make our senses merry . London , Printed for W. Gilbertson in Giltspur-street . Sack for my Money : Or , A Description of the operation of Sack that is still'd in the Spanish Nation : Then buy it , deny it , Like it or leave it , Not one among ten but is willing to have it . The tune is , Wet and weary . GOod Fellows all both great and small , rejoice at this my Ditty , While I do sing , good news I bring , to the Country and the City ; Let every Lad and Lass be glad , ( for who will true Love smother ) And being here my joy and dear , we'l kindly kiss each other : The purest Wine so brisk and fine , the Alligant and Sherry , I hold it good to purge the blood , and make the senses merry . This sparkling Sack that binds the back , and cherishes the heart boys , For recompense just eighteen pence , you must give for a Quart boys ; Away with Beer and such like geer , that makes our spirits muddy , For Wine complete will do the feat , that we all notes can study , The purest Wine so brisk and fine , etc Rich Malligo is pure I know to purge out Melancholy , And he that's sick it cureth quick , and makes their senses jolly , It rarefies the dullest eyes , of those that are most paler , And bravely can compose a man of a very Prick-lows Taylor . The richest Wine so brisk and fine , etc The merest fool shall teach a School by Clarets operation , And make some fight like men of might , or Champions of a Nation , It is more fine then Brandewine , the Butterboxes Poison , Who drinking dares , in Neptunes wars , reign Master of the Ocean , Canary Sack makes firm the back , both Alligant and Sherry , Are proved good to clear the blood , and make the senses merry . A longing Lass , whose Custerd-face , her inward grief discloses , With drinking Wine so sweet and fine , will gain a pair of Roses ; It does revive dead folks alive , and helps their former weakness , It is so pure that it does cure , a Maiden of her sickness , This Rhenish Wine so brisk and fine , etc The Drawar still the same shall fill , to elevate the heart boys , For Rhenish gay you now must pay , just twelve pence for a Quart boys : Who would be ty'de to Brewers side , whose measures do so vary , When we may fit to raise our wit , with drinking of Canary , The purest Wine , etc THe French Wine pure for 7. pence surr you shall have choice and plenty , At this same rate to drink in Plate , which is both good and dainty : A manding Cove that does it love , 'twill make him dance and caper , And Captain Puff will have enough , to make him brag and vapor , The purest Wine so brisk and fine , the Alligant and Sherry , I hold it good to purge the blood , and make the senses merry . And also we that do agree , as one , for boon good fellows , We'l sing and laugh and stoutly quaff , and quite renounce the Alehouse , For Ale and Beer are now both dear , the price is rais'd in either , Then let us all both great and small , toth' Tavern walk together : The purest Wine , etc The Tradesman may at any day , for their own recreation , Be welcome still to Ralph or Will , and have accommodation , For why their Coin will buy the Wine , and cause a running Barrel , But if you'r drunk your wits are sunk , and gorrill'd guts will quarrel . The purest Wine , etc The Cobbler fast will stay the last , for he's a lusty drinker , He'l pawn his soul to have a Bowl , to drink to Tom the Tinker : The Broomman he will be as free , to drink courageous stashes , If Coal grow scant , before he'l want , he'l burn his Brooms to ashes . The purest Wine , etc The Fiddling Crowd that grows so proud , will pawn their Pipes and Fiddles , They'l strike and crack with bowls of Sack , and cut the queerest whiddles . They'l rant and tear like men of War , they voices roars like Thunder , And growing cursed their Fiddles burst , and breaks 'um all asunder . The purest Wine , etc The Country Blades with their own Maids at every merry meetings , For Ale and Cakes at their Town Wakes , which they did give their Sweetings , Upon their friends a Crown will spend , in Sack that is so trusty , 'Twill please a Maid that is decay'd , and make a Booby lusty : Be rul'd by me and we'l agree , to drink both Sack and Sherry , For that is good to cleanse the blood , and make our senses merry . London , Printed for W. Gilbertson in Giltspur-street . 