The Young-Mans hard shift for a Maiden-Head . With the wenches Lamentation for the loss of the same , Complaining of William who was much too blame , Who promis'd her Marriage but hath quite undone her , Since that he hath robbed her now of her honour . The tune is , Bar up the door , My pretty Turtle-Dove , my Love and hearts delight , in whom my joy a [ n ] worser my comfort does rest . Take pi [ tO ] ty on me now this cold tempestuous night , both wet and weary and sorely distressed , I travel'd five m [ i ] les to see your sweet face , Oh let me in quickly it rains a pace , Methinks this should move you to pity my case , Come away pretty Betty and open the door . Do not dress you to prolong my misery , you shall be welcome to me in your Smock , More welcome then you were in all your bravery look not for the kee for it is in the lock . Come slip on your slippers and trip down the stairs And make no great noise love 'tmay lengthen our fears Then make haste unto me and shorten my cares , Come away etc O do not say this cold when thou slipst out of bed , if thou be'st cold I will warm thee again , With thought of a Baby thy fancy shell be fed , I'll show thee such sport dear thou shalt not complain When thou art below love and I am above , I'll show thee such sport as thy mother did love , I think I have spoken enough for to move , Come away etc If Cupid stand my friend and hit thee in the dark , I shall have hope to enjoy thee at last . For I have herd it said that he can hit the mark , as well in the night as the day that is past . If I be happy then Besse must be mine , And I in conclusion of force must be thine Why should not our hearts then together combine , Come away , etc Theres many proper Maids lives in this place beside , but you are the thief that [ a ] tO hath stolen my heart , Give me my heart again or yield to be my bride , or else from thy lodging I'll never depart . My heart thou hast sto [ l ] e [ n ] I look for relief . But if you'l change with me I'll pardon the thief , Come do it then quickly and ease all my grief , Come away , etc This thou that may kill me or lengthen my life , this you may give me bliss or else my bane , This you sweet Betty may help me unto a wife , this you that may spoil me and cu [ r ] e me again , If you be disposed to ruin me quite , Resolve and conclude [ tO ] hen to do it tonight , You may at this present now kill me out right . Come away etc , When pretty Betty herd all that was spoken , she opened the door and she let him come in , And she cannot say but he left her a token , to hug her and kiss her he now does begin , He so much prevailed that with her he lay , And went away from her before break of day . But she followed after and thus she did say , Come away pretty William and open the door . SWeet William open the door continue love to me , shut not the door against me in disdain . My heart is like to break I am with child by thee . to none but to you now dare I complain , Quoth William I have enough Betty of you , But I hope quoth Betty you will not say so , For I have no power from you for to go , Come away pretty William , etc I o'pt the door for you when you were cold and wet , a frozen Serpent I warm'd in my bed , Can you sweet William these kindnesses forget , I took pity on you when you were half dead . But William made answer I prithee away , Quoth Betty I cannot for here I must stay . This you have undone me which makes me to say Come away , etc If a man warm his feet in a fair Maidens bed , Must he be followed and punished beside , Yes if he climb so high to get her Maidenhead , promise and then will not make her his bride , Why did you not tell me then when I was at it The pleasant sport that we had made me forget it You do but dissomble for why well I wot it , Come away , etc You say I stole your heart you have it now again , would you could as well give me my Maiden head No sooner I lost it but I receiv'd my bane , when I entertained you into my bed . I cannot be blamed my mind for to break , For you should give losers' leave fo [ r ] to speak , But for my rash folly my heart it does ache , Come away , etc Quoth William learn more wit I am to prove you , men they may proffer but maids must say nay , What ever I did say I never did love thee . let this be your answer and so go your way . But I hope quoth Betty you will yield anon , No never quoth William I pray you be gone , I cannot go further since I am undone , Come away , etc But she could not prevail he barred up the door , she might have done so ere she did begin All you young Maidens take warning by her therefore , keep fast your wicket and let none come in , If youngmen do enter Oh they will go nigh To scale the low walls of your Virginity . Then you will be forced with Betty to cry Come away pretty William and open the door . Printed for William Gilbertson . The Young-Mans hard shift for a Maiden-Head . With the wenches Lamentation for the loss of the same , Complaining of William who was much too blame , Who promis'd her Marriage but hath quite undone her , Since that he hath robbed her now of her honour . The tune is , Bar up the door , My pretty Turtle-Dove , my Love and hearts delight , in whom my joy a [ n ] worser my comfort does rest . Take pi [ tO ] ty on me now this cold tempestuous night , both wet and weary and sorely distressed , I travel'd five m [ i ] les to see your sweet face , Oh let me in quickly it rains a pace , Methinks this should move you to pity my case , Come away pretty Betty and open the door . Do not dress you to prolong my misery , you shall be welcome to me in your Smock , More welcome then you were in all your bravery look not for the kee for it is in the lock . Come slip on your slippers and trip down the stairs And make no great noise love 'tmay lengthen our fears Then make haste unto me and shorten my cares , Come away etc O do not say this cold when thou slipst out of bed , if thou be'st cold I will warm thee again , With thought of a Baby thy fancy shell be fed , I'll show thee such sport dear thou shalt not complain When thou art below love and I am above , I'll show thee such sport as thy mother did love , I think I have spoken enough for to move , Come away etc If Cupid stand my friend and hit thee in the dark , I shall have hope to enjoy thee at last . For I have herd it said that he can hit the mark , as well in the night as the day that is past . If I be happy then Besse must be mine , And I in conclusion of force must be thine Why should not our hearts then together combine , Come away , etc Theres many proper Maids lives in this place beside , but you are the thief that [ a ] tO hath stolen my heart , Give me my heart again or yield to be my bride , or else from thy lodging I'll never depart . My heart thou hast sto [ l ] e [ n ] I look for relief . But if you'l change with me I'll pardon the thief , Come do it then quickly and ease all my grief , Come away , etc This thou that may kill me or lengthen my life , this you may give me bliss or else my bane , This you sweet Betty may help me unto a wife , this you that may spoil me and cu [ r ] e me again , If you be disposed to ruin me quite , Resolve and conclude [ tO ] hen to do it tonight , You may at this present now kill me out right . Come away etc , When pretty Betty herd all that was spoken , she opened the door and she let him come in , And she cannot say but he left her a token , to hug her and kiss her he now does begin , He so much prevailed that with her he lay , And went away from her before break of day . But she followed after and thus she did say , Come away pretty William and open the door . SWeet William open the door continue love to me , shut not the door against me in disdain . My heart is like to break I am with child by thee . to none but to you now dare I complain , Quoth William I have enough Betty of you , But I hope quoth Betty you will not say so , For I have no power from you for to go , Come away pretty William , etc I o'pt the door for you when you were cold and wet , a frozen Serpent I warm'd in my bed , Can you sweet William these kindnesses forget , I took pity on you when you were half dead . But William made answer I prithee away , Quoth Betty I cannot for here I must stay . This you have undone me which makes me to say Come away , etc If a man warm his feet in a fair Maidens bed , Must he be followed and punished beside , Yes if he climb so high to get her Maidenhead , promise and then will not make her his bride , Why did you not tell me then when I was at it The pleasant sport that we had made me forget it You do but dissomble for why well I wot it , Come away , etc You say I stole your heart you have it now again , would you could as well give me my Maiden head No sooner I lost it but I receiv'd my bane , when I entertained you into my bed . I cannot be blamed my mind for to break , For you should give losers' leave fo [ r ] to speak , But for my rash folly my heart it does ache , Come away , etc Quoth William learn more wit I am to prove you , men they may proffer but maids must say nay , What ever I did say I never did love thee . let this be your answer and so go your way . But I hope quoth Betty you will yield anon , No never quoth William I pray you be gone , I cannot go further since I am undone , Come away , etc But she could not prevail he barred up the door , she might have done so ere she did begin All you young Maidens take warning by her therefore , keep fast your wicket and let none come in , If youngmen do enter Oh they will go nigh To scale the low walls of your Virginity . Then you will be forced with Betty to cry Come away pretty William and open the door . Printed for William Gilbertson . 