A Jest ; Or , Master Constable . To the Tune of , the Three Pilgrim's . A Pretty jest I shall declare , Which I not long ago did hear Of one who did intend to jeer , Master Constable . I hope there's none will matter make Of that that I intend to speak , Of a busy man who the place did take . Of a Constable . For I hope each wise man wiser is , Then to think he is touch'd in this , For thinking so , he thinks amiss , 'Twas a busy Constable . For this is but a merry Jest , Which will I hope , no man molest , For I no grudge bear I protest , To any Canstable . Then pray you let this poor man pass For he for money sings alas , Let none then show himself and ass Like this Constable . He as his Office did direct , To set his watch was circumspect And nothing therein did neglect , Like a Constable . Also when any passed by , He did examine them strictly , Observing with discretions eye , A wise Constable . At length it chanc'd that one came near And he demanded who goes there You know not ( said he without fear Master Constable . Come hither that I may you see , And now what are you show to me , No Man nor Woman replied he , Master Constable . Where have you been then asked he That you thus crosly answer me , Know you not the authority Of a constable . Yes I know your authority , And I have been for certainty , Where you would have been glad to be Master Constable . Then said the Constable , some end , Will come hereof , but say my friend , Whither to go do you intend , Why good Constable . I am going thither where You dare not go for your right ear What you are set upon the jeer said the Constable . What is your name pray tell me that Who dare so boldly to me prate , Be brief , and truth to me relate , Said the Constable Twenty shillings I am nam'd I thereof need not be asham'd , Although by you I may be blam'd , master Constable Sir , that hereafter we shall see But in the mean time tell to me , Where your dwelling place may be . Quoth the Constable Out of the Kings dominion I , Do dwell said he assuredly , As my Neighbours can testify , master Constables But in the Kings dominion you Are now my friend , and you shall rue That still cross language you renew To a Constable . The second part to the same Tune . I Am at your dispose said he , But pray you here this word from me You show your self herein to be A wise Constable . To prison then incontinent , The Constable this good man sent Although the same he did repent , Like a Constable . Before a Justice the next day , The Constable boar him away , And to his Worship thus did say , Like a Constable , Sir in my Watch the last night I This fellow took who saucily , Jeer'd me and my authority , Said the Constable . Then quoth the Justice , what said he ? That might to you distasteful be , And isle between you judge fairly , Master Constable . First who goes there was ask [ ' ] worser by me You cannot tell replied he , And thus he did begin crosly , Said the Constable , . Come before my authority And now what are you tell to me , No Man nor Woman replied he , Said the Constable . Where have you been then I enquir'd Where you to be would have desir'd Thus I again by him was jeerd , Said the Constable . Weither go you ? then said I And he still crosly did reply Where for my ears I durst not be , Said the Constable . What is your name sir tell to me , Twen [ tO ] y shillings replied he [ Deem you tO ] hese answers fit to be , Give [ n to ] a Constable . I ask [ worser ] his dwelling place also , And he this answer did bestow Out of the Kings dominion know , Quoth the Constable . But when he saw jde him convey , To prison until the next day , You are quoth he I needs must say , A wise Constable . you my complaint have herd said he Now pray you judge betwixt him & me That I may satisfied be , being a Constable . Then said the Justice was not he , In drink that he thus answered thee , If so , that might the reason be , Master Constable . No , in your Worship I do vow He was as sober as we are now , And therefore do no favour show , Said the Constable . Then said the Justice what say you , Is this that he alleges true , If ; how durst you such carriage show , Towards a Constable . Sir I speak truth , first he asked who Goes there , I said he did not know , If he had he would let me go , Like a Constable . And I am a Taylor by my Trade , Who are no men by the proverb made , Nor am I a Woman jle persuade Master Constable . Then next he asked of me where I had been ; which was at good cheer And you'd as gladly have been there , Master Constable . And I was agoing thus I said , where you durst not go for your head For it was with my wife to bed . Master Constable . And sir , Mark Noble is my name , And in your ears I dare proclaim , That twenty shilling is the same , Master Constable . The King of great Brittain is King as fame throughout the world does ring But in little Brittain is my dwelling , Master Constable . and I pray your worship further here If I in any thing did err It was that I did him prefer , For a wise Constable . And sir he ought give me content ; Both for my wrong imprisonment , And loss of time with money spent , Through the Constable . Then said the Justice good sir hear This man makes all his words appear To be the truth , and not a jeer Master Constable , And you have been too much to blame To take away thu [ s ] his good name , And this fit you pay for the same Master Constable . You said that he was not in drink And therefore come lay down your chink It is in vain backward to shrink Master Constable . To pay his charges I you enjoin , And a French crown for loss of time And friendly drink a pint of Wine . So farewell Constable . which done the man went merrily home His wife rejoyc'd to see him come , Where he to her told the whole sum , Of the Constable . Thus of this Constable I end , Desiring favour of each Friend , For what in mirth by me is pend Of this Constable . But if there's any fault does find , Such men they have a guilty mind , Or too too busy are inclin'd Like this Constable . FINIS . Entered according to Order . London , Printed for Francis Grove on Snow-hill . A Jest ; Or , Master Constable . To the Tune of , the Three Pilgrim's . A Pretty jest I shall declare , Which I not long ago did hear Of one who did intend to jeer , Master Constable . I hope there's none will matter make Of that that I intend to speak , Of a busy man who the place did take . Of a Constable . For I hope each wise man wiser is , Then to think he is touch'd in this , For thinking so , he thinks amiss , 'Twas a busy Constable . For this is but a merry Jest , Which will I hope , no man molest , For I no grudge bear I protest , To any Canstable . Then pray you let this poor man pass For he for money sings alas , Let none then show himself and ass Like this Constable . He as his Office did direct , To set his watch was circumspect And nothing therein did neglect , Like a Constable . Also when any passed by , He did examine them strictly , Observing with discretions eye , A wise Constable . At length it chanc'd that one came near And he demanded who goes there You know not ( said he without fear Master Constable . Come hither that I may you see , And now what are you show to me , No Man nor Woman replied he , Master Constable . Where have you been then asked he That you thus crosly answer me , Know you not the authority Of a constable . Yes I know your authority , And I have been for certainty , Where you would have been glad to be Master Constable . Then said the Constable , some end , Will come hereof , but say my friend , Whither to go do you intend , Why good Constable . I am going thither where You dare not go for your right ear What you are set upon the jeer said the Constable . What is your name pray tell me that Who dare so boldly to me prate , Be brief , and truth to me relate , Said the Constable Twenty shillings I am nam'd I thereof need not be asham'd , Although by you I may be blam'd , master Constable Sir , that hereafter we shall see But in the mean time tell to me , Where your dwelling place may be . Quoth the Constable Out of the Kings dominion I , Do dwell said he assuredly , As my Neighbours can testify , master Constables But in the Kings dominion you Are now my friend , and you shall rue That still cross language you renew To a Constable . The second part to the same Tune . I Am at your dispose said he , But pray you here this word from me You show your self herein to be A wise Constable . To prison then incontinent , The Constable this good man sent Although the same he did repent , Like a Constable . Before a Justice the next day , The Constable boar him away , And to his Worship thus did say , Like a Constable , Sir in my Watch the last night I This fellow took who saucily , Jeer'd me and my authority , Said the Constable . Then quoth the Justice , what said he ? That might to you distasteful be , And isle between you judge fairly , Master Constable . First who goes there was ask [ ' ] worser by me You cannot tell replied he , And thus he did begin crosly , Said the Constable , . Come before my authority And now what are you tell to me , No Man nor Woman replied he , Said the Constable . Where have you been then I enquir'd Where you to be would have desir'd Thus I again by him was jeerd , Said the Constable . Weither go you ? then said I And he still crosly did reply Where for my ears I durst not be , Said the Constable . What is your name sir tell to me , Twen [ tO ] y shillings replied he [ Deem you tO ] hese answers fit to be , Give [ n to ] a Constable . I ask [ worser ] his dwelling place also , And he this answer did bestow Out of the Kings dominion know , Quoth the Constable . But when he saw jde him convey , To prison until the next day , You are quoth he I needs must say , A wise Constable . you my complaint have herd said he Now pray you judge betwixt him & me That I may satisfied be , being a Constable . Then said the Justice was not he , In drink that he thus answered thee , If so , that might the reason be , Master Constable . No , in your Worship I do vow He was as sober as we are now , And therefore do no favour show , Said the Constable . Then said the Justice what say you , Is this that he alleges true , If ; how durst you such carriage show , Towards a Constable . Sir I speak truth , first he asked who Goes there , I said he did not know , If he had he would let me go , Like a Constable . And I am a Taylor by my Trade , Who are no men by the proverb made , Nor am I a Woman jle persuade Master Constable . Then next he asked of me where I had been ; which was at good cheer And you'd as gladly have been there , Master Constable . And I was agoing thus I said , where you durst not go for your head For it was with my wife to bed . Master Constable . And sir , Mark Noble is my name , And in your ears I dare proclaim , That twenty shilling is the same , Master Constable . The King of great Brittain is King as fame throughout the world does ring But in little Brittain is my dwelling , Master Constable . and I pray your worship further here If I in any thing did err It was that I did him prefer , For a wise Constable . And sir he ought give me content ; Both for my wrong imprisonment , And loss of time with money spent , Through the Constable . Then said the Justice good sir hear This man makes all his words appear To be the truth , and not a jeer Master Constable , And you have been too much to blame To take away thu [ s ] his good name , And this fit you pay for the same Master Constable . You said that he was not in drink And therefore come lay down your chink It is in vain backward to shrink Master Constable . To pay his charges I you enjoin , And a French crown for loss of time And friendly drink a pint of Wine . So farewell Constable . which done the man went merrily home His wife rejoyc'd to see him come , Where he to her told the whole sum , Of the Constable . Thus of this Constable I end , Desiring favour of each Friend , For what in mirth by me is pend Of this Constable . But if there's any fault does find , Such men they have a guilty mind , Or too too busy are inclin'd Like this Constable . FINIS . Entered according to Order . London , Printed for Francis Grove on Snow-hill . 