The Skilful Doctor of Gloucestershire , OR , A new way to take Physic . This Ditty does concern a Country Farmer , Who lay with his Maid , not thinking to harm her : But she poor Wench , was by her Master vil'd , First tempt to since , and after god with Child : But by the Doctors Skill , her honest Dame , Excus'd her Husband , and sav'd her Maid from blame : The Doctor he hath Medicines in store , To cure all sorts of folks , both rich and poor . The Tune is , Beds Making . A Country Farmer as 'tis said , That had a pretty handsome Maid Asked her a question secretly : To which she answered , by and by : And being kindly reconcil'd , The Farmer god his Maid with child . And after he had done the deed , His heart poor-man did almost bleed , With inward grief & trembling fear , Doubting his Wife should of it hear , The Maid did likewise sighs and groan And to her Master oft made moan . Wherefore all dangers to prevent , Unto a poor Young Man he went , Saying , ten pound he would him give , And be a Friend while he did live , So thou wilt finish up my strife , And take my Maid to be thy Wife . The Young man thus to him reply'd , Your suit to me must be deny'd ; For I will neith [ e ] r Reap nor Mow , The Bastard Seed that you did sow , Get a workman where you can quod he , For I your Hireling will not be . The Farmer being thus deny'd , Another practice soon he try'd : There was a Doctor he knew well . That three Miles from his house did dwell , Unto the Doctor he told all , That did of late to him befall . The Doctor answered him and told , If you'l give me ten pounds in Gold , I'le teach you such a pretty trick ; I am sure you never herd the like , To save your Maid & you from blame And your Wife shall yield unto the same . To this the Farmer soon agreed , And down he laid ten pound with speed , The money pleas'd the Doctor well , Who straight his Money began to tell Mark well what I shall say quoth he And learn this Counsel now of me . With speed run home & tell your wife , That you shall surely loose your life , By reason of a grievous pain , That in your belly does remain , There is no way but you must die , Unless you seek some remedy . prey her with all the speed may be , To bring your water unto me : And when she comes let me alone , I'le show such skill as ne'r was shown Such stories I'le to her unfold , The like strange news was never told . I Will persuade her thus , and say Last time that you together lay , The Moon it was eclipsed strange , And nature did her courses change Mars by Dame Venus was beguil'd , And so your Wife god you with Child . This bargain made , brought much content Home in all haste the Farmer wen And told his Wife so strange a tale , As made her countenance look pale : Dear Wife , quoth he , I am perplexed , Never was man before so vexed . I am encumbered with great pains , From top to toe , through all my veins My back and sides grieve me so soar , Such pains I never felt before , But yet the greatest pain I tell you , Lies rambling up and down my belly . Husband , quoth she , I can you tell , Of one that soon can make you well : He cures as I do understand , All diseases that he takes in hand : And if you please to have it so , I'll to him with your water go . Next morn with a good intent , The Goodwife to the Doctor wen And shows him her Husbands water , Now mark the jest & follows after : Cox body , quoth the Doctor mild , Thy Husband surely is with Child . The woman she was much amaz'd , And on the Doctor strangely gaz'd , Good Sir , in kindness now tell me , How such things in a man may be , I will quoth he , make you no doubt , And time at last will bring all out . When Luna last was in the Clips , You with your Husband joined lips , Then Jupiter being wrapped in thunder Turn'd Venus up , while Mars lay under By which Conjunction well I wot , Your Husband then with child you god . Alas ! alas ! then said his wife , Is there no means to save his life , I would not for a thousand pound , My husband he should fallen toth' ground Faith quoth the Doctor , there is none , No ways to save his life but one . Kind loving Sir , then answered she , If you will be so good to me , To tell how I his life may save , I'le give whatever you would have , No cost nor pains that I will spare , To save his life whom I love so dear . But first quoth he , I'le have you swear And also have special care , To tell no body while you live , What Physic he is to receive ; She strait way bound it with and oath , I'le keep your Counsel by my troth . The Doctors potion of Physic . Then mark me well what's to be done Each night about setting of the Sun , His Supper then you must provide , Of Eggs and some choice meat beside , And for to strengthen his weak back , You must give him a Pint of Sack . Which being done put him to bed , And l [ a ] y soft Pillows under his head ; Then make for him a Posset fine , With Sugar and sweet Muscadine , Commixed with Cinnamon and Mace , And let him swallow it down apace . When he hath slept and hour or twain , Then you must come to him again , And bring with you a lusty Maid , Which to his Belly must be laid , So let them merrily sleep together , And lovingly embrace each other . This course you must for three Weeks take And then be sure that it will make The pain go from his back and side , The Maid the torment shall abide , And afterwards in little space , She will bring forth a Babe of Grace . And when your Maid is brought a bed Your self must lie down in her stead , And because nothing may be known , Folks must believe the Child's your own Be sure you take this said he , And so your Husband eas'd shall be . The woman having herd this news , Ran home in haste , how could she chuss Where she did see her Husband lie , Like one just ready for to die : Then presently she did unfold All that the Doctor had her told . Alas quoth he , such pangs I have , There is no means my life to save , Unless you do a Posset make To cure my belly of the ache : Wherefore the Woman out of hand Did as the Doctor did command . A Supper of most dainty meat , She made him ready for to eat , And because he should no Physic lack , She after Supper gave him Sack , Then kept him warm within his bed , And with sweet Posset she him fed . This being done with Cupids aid , She god the good will of her Maid , To lie with and keep her Master warm And said he should do her no harm ; The Maid at first seem'd loath to do , But at the last yielded thereunto . And as the Doctor did foretell , So every thing in order fell , The Maid in time was brought to Bed The goodwife lay down in her stead The man was of his burden eas'd , The Child at Nurse , & all are pleas'd . You that these Verses hear or read , If of the Doctor you stand in need , Inquire him out where he does dwell , And surely he will use you well , He'l give you Physic to your mind , So that your Purses be well lin'd . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Skilful Doctor of Gloucestershire , OR , A new way to take Physic . This Ditty does concern a Country Farmer , Who lay with his Maid , not thinking to harm her : But she poor Wench , was by her Master vil'd , First tempt to since , and after god with Child : But by the Doctors Skill , her honest Dame , Excus'd her Husband , and sav'd her Maid from blame : The Doctor he hath Medicines in store , To cure all sorts of folks , both rich and poor . The Tune is , Beds Making . A Country Farmer as 'tis said , That had a pretty handsome Maid Asked her a question secretly : To which she answered , by and by : And being kindly reconcil'd , The Farmer god his Maid with child . And after he had done the deed , His heart poor-man did almost bleed , With inward grief & trembling fear , Doubting his Wife should of it hear , The Maid did likewise sighs and groan And to her Master oft made moan . Wherefore all dangers to prevent , Unto a poor Young Man he went , Saying , ten pound he would him give , And be a Friend while he did live , So thou wilt finish up my strife , And take my Maid to be thy Wife . The Young man thus to him reply'd , Your suit to me must be deny'd ; For I will neith [ e ] r Reap nor Mow , The Bastard Seed that you did sow , Get a workman where you can quod he , For I your Hireling will not be . The Farmer being thus deny'd , Another practice soon he try'd : There was a Doctor he knew well . That three Miles from his house did dwell , Unto the Doctor he told all , That did of late to him befall . The Doctor answered him and told , If you'l give me ten pounds in Gold , I'le teach you such a pretty trick ; I am sure you never herd the like , To save your Maid & you from blame And your Wife shall yield unto the same . To this the Farmer soon agreed , And down he laid ten pound with speed , The money pleas'd the Doctor well , Who straight his Money began to tell Mark well what I shall say quoth he And learn this Counsel now of me . With speed run home & tell your wife , That you shall surely loose your life , By reason of a grievous pain , That in your belly does remain , There is no way but you must die , Unless you seek some remedy . prey her with all the speed may be , To bring your water unto me : And when she comes let me alone , I'le show such skill as ne'r was shown Such stories I'le to her unfold , The like strange news was never told . I Will persuade her thus , and say Last time that you together lay , The Moon it was eclipsed strange , And nature did her courses change Mars by Dame Venus was beguil'd , And so your Wife god you with Child . This bargain made , brought much content Home in all haste the Farmer wen And told his Wife so strange a tale , As made her countenance look pale : Dear Wife , quoth he , I am perplexed , Never was man before so vexed . I am encumbered with great pains , From top to toe , through all my veins My back and sides grieve me so soar , Such pains I never felt before , But yet the greatest pain I tell you , Lies rambling up and down my belly . Husband , quoth she , I can you tell , Of one that soon can make you well : He cures as I do understand , All diseases that he takes in hand : And if you please to have it so , I'll to him with your water go . Next morn with a good intent , The Goodwife to the Doctor wen And shows him her Husbands water , Now mark the jest & follows after : Cox body , quoth the Doctor mild , Thy Husband surely is with Child . The woman she was much amaz'd , And on the Doctor strangely gaz'd , Good Sir , in kindness now tell me , How such things in a man may be , I will quoth he , make you no doubt , And time at last will bring all out . When Luna last was in the Clips , You with your Husband joined lips , Then Jupiter being wrapped in thunder Turn'd Venus up , while Mars lay under By which Conjunction well I wot , Your Husband then with child you god . Alas ! alas ! then said his wife , Is there no means to save his life , I would not for a thousand pound , My husband he should fallen toth' ground Faith quoth the Doctor , there is none , No ways to save his life but one . Kind loving Sir , then answered she , If you will be so good to me , To tell how I his life may save , I'le give whatever you would have , No cost nor pains that I will spare , To save his life whom I love so dear . But first quoth he , I'le have you swear And also have special care , To tell no body while you live , What Physic he is to receive ; She strait way bound it with and oath , I'le keep your Counsel by my troth . The Doctors potion of Physic . Then mark me well what's to be done Each night about setting of the Sun , His Supper then you must provide , Of Eggs and some choice meat beside , And for to strengthen his weak back , You must give him a Pint of Sack . Which being done put him to bed , And l [ a ] y soft Pillows under his head ; Then make for him a Posset fine , With Sugar and sweet Muscadine , Commixed with Cinnamon and Mace , And let him swallow it down apace . When he hath slept and hour or twain , Then you must come to him again , And bring with you a lusty Maid , Which to his Belly must be laid , So let them merrily sleep together , And lovingly embrace each other . This course you must for three Weeks take And then be sure that it will make The pain go from his back and side , The Maid the torment shall abide , And afterwards in little space , She will bring forth a Babe of Grace . And when your Maid is brought a bed Your self must lie down in her stead , And because nothing may be known , Folks must believe the Child's your own Be sure you take this said he , And so your Husband eas'd shall be . The woman having herd this news , Ran home in haste , how could she chuss Where she did see her Husband lie , Like one just ready for to die : Then presently she did unfold All that the Doctor had her told . Alas quoth he , such pangs I have , There is no means my life to save , Unless you do a Posset make To cure my belly of the ache : Wherefore the Woman out of hand Did as the Doctor did command . A Supper of most dainty meat , She made him ready for to eat , And because he should no Physic lack , She after Supper gave him Sack , Then kept him warm within his bed , And with sweet Posset she him fed . This being done with Cupids aid , She god the good will of her Maid , To lie with and keep her Master warm And said he should do her no harm ; The Maid at first seem'd loath to do , But at the last yielded thereunto . And as the Doctor did foretell , So every thing in order fell , The Maid in time was brought to Bed The goodwife lay down in her stead The man was of his burden eas'd , The Child at Nurse , & all are pleas'd . You that these Verses hear or read , If of the Doctor you stand in need , Inquire him out where he does dwell , And surely he will use you well , He'l give you Physic to your mind , So that your Purses be well lin'd . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 