The Scotch Lad's Moan . OR , Pretty Moggies Unkindness . To and excellent New Scotch Tune . This may be Printed , R. P. A Lad o' th' Town that made his moan one Winter's morning early , Alas ! that I must lie alone , and Moggies bed so near me ; All night I turn , and toss , and sighs , And never can I close my eyes , For thinking that I lig so nigh the Lass I love so dearly . She's all Delight from foot to crown , and just sixteen her Age is , And that she still must lie alone , my heart and soul enrag'd is : I'd give the World I might put on Each morn her stockings or her shoes ; If I were but her serving-Loon , I'd never ask for Wages . GIn Moggy wou'd but be my Bride , I'd take no farther warning , Nor valve au the world beside , nor other Lasses scorning ; My love is grown up to the height , I prize so much my own delight , I care not , had I her one night , so I was dead i'th morning . Geud faith , she's sike a pretty Lass , I never saw a sweeter ; She all her Sex does far surpass in Beauty and in Feature : Gin on her face I chanc'd to gaze , Her pretty looks such Charms displays , That I must ever speak her praise ; Venus was not completer . When ever Moggy I espy , I lowly dof my Bonnet ; And oft in her sweet company I sing a lovesick Son Yet she regardless of my pain , Which I strive to express in vain , Bids me forbear for to complain , and tell her no more on it . Ah was me ! Moggy's to blame , not to grant my desire ; Gin she did first create the flame which set my heart on fire . Was I a King of great Renown , And had a Sceptre and a Crown , I at her feet wou'd lay them down , one night for to lig by her . Gin she so much is unkind , my life is grown uneasy ; No rest nor quiet can I find , nor nothing that can please me . But if she still continues so , And no more kindness will bestow , To the Elizium shades I go ; ah ! Death will quickly seize me . FINIS . [ Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden ball in Py-corner . ] The Scotch Lad's Moan . OR , Pretty Moggies Unkindness . To and excellent New Scotch Tune . This may be Printed , R. P. A Lad o' th' Town that made his moan one Winter's morning early , Alas ! that I must lie alone , and Moggies bed so near me ; All night I turn , and toss , and sighs , And never can I close my eyes , For thinking that I lig so nigh the Lass I love so dearly . She's all Delight from foot to crown , and just sixteen her Age is , And that she still must lie alone , my heart and soul enrag'd is : I'd give the World I might put on Each morn her stockings or her shoes ; If I were but her serving-Loon , I'd never ask for Wages . GIn Moggy wou'd but be my Bride , I'd take no farther warning , Nor valve au the world beside , nor other Lasses scorning ; My love is grown up to the height , I prize so much my own delight , I care not , had I her one night , so I was dead i'th morning . Geud faith , she's sike a pretty Lass , I never saw a sweeter ; She all her Sex does far surpass in Beauty and in Feature : Gin on her face I chanc'd to gaze , Her pretty looks such Charms displays , That I must ever speak her praise ; Venus was not completer . When ever Moggy I espy , I lowly dof my Bonnet ; And oft in her sweet company I sing a lovesick Son Yet she regardless of my pain , Which I strive to express in vain , Bids me forbear for to complain , and tell her no more on it . Ah was me ! Moggy's to blame , not to grant my desire ; Gin she did first create the flame which set my heart on fire . Was I a King of great Renown , And had a Sceptre and a Crown , I at her feet wou'd lay them down , one night for to lig by her . Gin she so much is unkind , my life is grown uneasy ; No rest nor quiet can I find , nor nothing that can please me . But if she still continues so , And no more kindness will bestow , To the Elizium shades I go ; ah ! Death will quickly seize me . FINIS . [ Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden ball in Py-corner . ] 