r The Hunting of the Hare . With her last Will and Testament , As 'twas perform'd on Bamstead downs , By Conycatchers , and their hounds . To a pleasant new Tune . OF all delights that Earth does yield , Give me a pack of hounds in field : Whose echo shall throughout the sky Make Jove admire our harmony , and wish that he a mortal were to view the pastime we have here . I will tell you of a rare scent , Where many a gallant horse was spent On Bamstead Downs a Hare we found Which led us all a smoking round ; o're hedge and ditch away she goes , admiring her approaching foes . but when she found her strength to wast She parleyed with the hounds at las Kind hounds , quoth she forbear to kill A harmless Hare that near thought ill , and if your Master sport do crave , I'le led a scent as he would have , Away , away , thou art alone , Make haste , I say , and get thee gone , Wee'l give thee law for half a mile , To see if thou canst us beguile ; but then expect a thundering cry , made by us and our harmony . Now since you set my life so sleight , I'l make black slowen turn to white : And Yorkshire Gray that runs at all , I'le make him wish he were in stall , or Sorrel he that seems to fly , I [ ' ] le make him supple e're he die . Let Barnards Bay do what he can , Or Barrons Bay that now and than , Did interrupt me on my way , I'le make him neither jet nor play , or constant Robin though he lie , at his advantage , what care I . Will Hatton he hath done me wrong , He struck me as I run along , And with one pat made me so soar , That I ran reeling to and from ; but if I die his Master tell , that fool shall ring my passing bell . Alas poor Hare it is our nature , To kill thee , and no other creature , For our Master wants a bit , And thou wilt well become the spit , he'l eat thy flesh , we'l pick thy bone , this is thy doom , so get thee gone . The second part , to the same Tune . YOur Master may have better cheer , For I am dry , and butter is dear , But if he please to make a friend , He'd better give a puddings end , for I being kill'd the sport he'l lack , and I must hang on the Huntsman's back Alas poor Hare we pity thee , If with our nature 'twould agree , But all thy doubling shifts I fear , Will not prevail , thy death's so near , then make thy Will , it may be that , may save thee , or I know not what . Then I bequeath my body free , Unto your Master's courtesy : And if he please my life to grant , I'll be his game when sport is scan but if I die each greedy Hound , divides my entrails on the ground . Imprimis , I bequeath my head , To him that a fair foul does wed : Who hath before her Maidenhead lost , I would not have the proverb crossed , which I have herd 'mongst many quiblets set the Hares head 'gainst the Goose-giblets Item , I do give and bequeath , To men in debt ( after my death ) My subtle scent , that so they may , Beware of such as would betray , them to a miserable fate by bloodhounds from the Compter-gate . Item , I to a turncoat give ( That he may more obscurely live ) My swift and sudden doublings which , Will make him politic and rich , though at the last with many wounds I wish him kill'd by his own hounds . Item , I give into their hands , That purchase Dean & Chapters lands , My wretched jealousies and fears , Mixed with salt of Orphans tears , that long vexations may persever , to plague them and their heirs for ever . Before I die ( for breath is scant ) I would supply men's proper want , And therefore I bequeathe [ e ] unto , The Scrivener ( give the Devil his due ) that Forgeth , Swears , and then For-swears ( to save his credit ) both my Ears . I give to some Sequestered man , My skin to make a jacket on : And I bequeath my feet to they , That shortly mean to run away , when truth is Speaker , False-hood's dumb , Foxes must fly when Lions come . To Fiddlers ( for all Trades must live ) To serve for strings , my guts I give : For Gamesters that do play at rut , And love the sport , I give my sku but ( last of all in this sad dump ) to Towerhill I bequeath my Rump Was ever Hounds so basely crossed ? Our Master's calls us off so fast , That we the scent have almost lost , And they themselves must rule the rost , therefore kind Hare wee'l pardon you , thanks gentle Hounds , and so adue . And since your Master hath pardon'd me I'le led you all to Banbury , Whereas John Turner hath a Room , To entertain all Guests that come , to laugh and quaff in Wine and Beer a full carouse to your Galleere . FINIS . London , Printed for Francis G [ r ] ove on Snow hill . r The Hunting of the Hare . With her last Will and Testament , As 'twas perform'd on Bamstead downs , By Conycatchers , and their hounds . To a pleasant new Tune . OF all delights that Earth does yield , Give me a pack of hounds in field : Whose echo shall throughout the sky Make Jove admire our harmony , and wish that he a mortal were to view the pastime we have here . I will tell you of a rare scent , Where many a gallant horse was spent On Bamstead Downs a Hare we found Which led us all a smoking round ; o're hedge and ditch away she goes , admiring her approaching foes . but when she found her strength to wast She parleyed with the hounds at las Kind hounds , quoth she forbear to kill A harmless Hare that near thought ill , and if your Master sport do crave , I'le led a scent as he would have , Away , away , thou art alone , Make haste , I say , and get thee gone , Wee'l give thee law for half a mile , To see if thou canst us beguile ; but then expect a thundering cry , made by us and our harmony . Now since you set my life so sleight , I'l make black slowen turn to white : And Yorkshire Gray that runs at all , I'le make him wish he were in stall , or Sorrel he that seems to fly , I [ ' ] le make him supple e're he die . Let Barnards Bay do what he can , Or Barrons Bay that now and than , Did interrupt me on my way , I'le make him neither jet nor play , or constant Robin though he lie , at his advantage , what care I . Will Hatton he hath done me wrong , He struck me as I run along , And with one pat made me so soar , That I ran reeling to and from ; but if I die his Master tell , that fool shall ring my passing bell . Alas poor Hare it is our nature , To kill thee , and no other creature , For our Master wants a bit , And thou wilt well become the spit , he'l eat thy flesh , we'l pick thy bone , this is thy doom , so get thee gone . The second part , to the same Tune . YOur Master may have better cheer , For I am dry , and butter is dear , But if he please to make a friend , He'd better give a puddings end , for I being kill'd the sport he'l lack , and I must hang on the Huntsman's back Alas poor Hare we pity thee , If with our nature 'twould agree , But all thy doubling shifts I fear , Will not prevail , thy death's so near , then make thy Will , it may be that , may save thee , or I know not what . Then I bequeath my body free , Unto your Master's courtesy : And if he please my life to grant , I'll be his game when sport is scan but if I die each greedy Hound , divides my entrails on the ground . Imprimis , I bequeath my head , To him that a fair foul does wed : Who hath before her Maidenhead lost , I would not have the proverb crossed , which I have herd 'mongst many quiblets set the Hares head 'gainst the Goose-giblets Item , I do give and bequeath , To men in debt ( after my death ) My subtle scent , that so they may , Beware of such as would betray , them to a miserable fate by bloodhounds from the Compter-gate . Item , I to a turncoat give ( That he may more obscurely live ) My swift and sudden doublings which , Will make him politic and rich , though at the last with many wounds I wish him kill'd by his own hounds . Item , I give into their hands , That purchase Dean & Chapters lands , My wretched jealousies and fears , Mixed with salt of Orphans tears , that long vexations may persever , to plague them and their heirs for ever . Before I die ( for breath is scant ) I would supply men's proper want , And therefore I bequeathe [ e ] unto , The Scrivener ( give the Devil his due ) that Forgeth , Swears , and then For-swears ( to save his credit ) both my Ears . I give to some Sequestered man , My skin to make a jacket on : And I bequeath my feet to they , That shortly mean to run away , when truth is Speaker , False-hood's dumb , Foxes must fly when Lions come . To Fiddlers ( for all Trades must live ) To serve for strings , my guts I give : For Gamesters that do play at rut , And love the sport , I give my sku but ( last of all in this sad dump ) to Towerhill I bequeath my Rump Was ever Hounds so basely crossed ? Our Master's calls us off so fast , That we the scent have almost lost , And they themselves must rule the rost , therefore kind Hare wee'l pardon you , thanks gentle Hounds , and so adue . And since your Master hath pardon'd me I'le led you all to Banbury , Whereas John Turner hath a Room , To entertain all Guests that come , to laugh and quaff in Wine and Beer a full carouse to your Galleere . FINIS . London , Printed for Francis G [ r ] ove on Snow hill . 