The valiant Commander with his resolute Lady , Showing . A brief discourse of a Commander bold , Who had a wife was worth her weight in gold , She bravely fought to save her husbands life . Let all men judge , was not this a valiant wife . To a new Northern tune called , I would give ten thousand pounds she was in Shrewsbury , OR , Ned Smith . GAllants come list a while a story I will tell , Of a Commander bold , and what to him befell , He was besieged round , in Chester City fair , His Lady being with him , which fil'd his heart with care , This unto her he said , dearest come thou to me . I would give ten thousand pounds thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . O my own hearts delight , my joy and turtle Dove , More dear than my own life , heavens know I do thee love . Those beauteous looks of thine my senses set on fire , Yea though I love thee well , thy absence I desire , Dearest come thou to me , etc Thy read coloured cheeks and thy bright shining eye , Makes me always inflam'd , with thy sweet company , Thy breath smells far more rare than does sweet frankincense . And yet for all those fumes I wish thee farther hence : This makes me sighs and say . etc Look how my Uncle stands , I dare not come him near , Because I love the King . and am a Cavalier , Yet for my Lady and her son , my heart does bleed for thee , I would give then thousand pound they were in Shrewsbury : They were in Shrewsbury , some comfort for to find , among the Cavaliers to ease a troubled mind . My heart bleeds in my breast , for my fair Ladies sake , And how to save her life . I know no course to take , Hark how the Drums do beatrice , and warlike Trumpets found , See how the Musqueteers , have now begirt us round : The Soldiers they cry out , kill , kill no quarter give , What hope's then can I have , that my true love should live . The second part to the same tune . WHen he thus spoken had his Lady he forsook , And with a manly heart his sword in hand he took . Farewell my Lady dear , now will I bandy blows , And fight myself to death among my desperate foes , Dearest farewell from me , dearest farewell from me , I would give ten thousand pound , thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . His Lady seeing then : the danger they were in , She like a Soldier bold nobly then did begin : My trusty love quoth she since thou so va [ l ] iant art , What ere becomes of me , stoutly I'll take thy par Dearest cast care away let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll near depart I'll live and die with thee . Put me on men attire give me a Soldiers coat , I'll make King Charleses foes quickly to change their note . Cock your match , prim your pan let piercing bullets fly . I do not care a pin , whither I live or die : Dearest cast care away let kisses comfort thee Thou and I'll near depart I'll live and die with thee . She took a Musquet then and a sword by her side , In disguise like a man her valour so she tried , And with her true love she , marched forth courageously , And made away with speed , quite through the enemy . Dearest cast care away let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll near depart I'll live and die with thee . Their Soldiers brave and bold , behav'd themselves so well That all the Northern parts , of their deserts can tell ; Thus have you herd the n [ e ] us of a most valiant weight , And of his Lady brave . how stoutly they did fight . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll near depart , we two will still agree . FINIS . The valiant Commander with his resolute Lady , Showing . A brief discourse of a Commander bold , Who had a wife was worth her weight in gold , She bravely fought to save her husbands life . Let all men judge , was not this a valiant wife . To a new Northern tune called , I would give ten thousand pounds she was in Shrewsbury , OR , Ned Smith . GAllants come list a while a story I will tell , Of a Commander bold , and what to him befell , He was besieged round , in Chester City fair , His Lady being with him , which fil'd his heart with care , This unto her he said , dearest come thou to me . I would give ten thousand pounds thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . O my own hearts delight , my joy and turtle Dove , More dear than my own life , heavens know I do thee love . Those beauteous looks of thine my senses set on fire , Yea though I love thee well , thy absence I desire , Dearest come thou to me , etc Thy read coloured cheeks and thy bright shining eye , Makes me always inflam'd , with thy sweet company , Thy breath smells far more rare than does sweet frankincense . And yet for all those fumes I wish thee farther hence : This makes me sighs and say . etc Look how my Uncle stands , I dare not come him near , Because I love the King . and am a Cavalier , Yet for my Lady and her son , my heart does bleed for thee , I would give then thousand pound they were in Shrewsbury : They were in Shrewsbury , some comfort for to find , among the Cavaliers to ease a troubled mind . My heart bleeds in my breast , for my fair Ladies sake , And how to save her life . I know no course to take , Hark how the Drums do beatrice , and warlike Trumpets found , See how the Musqueteers , have now begirt us round : The Soldiers they cry out , kill , kill no quarter give , What hope's then can I have , that my true love should live . The second part to the same tune . WHen he thus spoken had his Lady he forsook , And with a manly heart his sword in hand he took . Farewell my Lady dear , now will I bandy blows , And fight myself to death among my desperate foes , Dearest farewell from me , dearest farewell from me , I would give ten thousand pound , thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . His Lady seeing then : the danger they were in , She like a Soldier bold nobly then did begin : My trusty love quoth she since thou so va [ l ] iant art , What ere becomes of me , stoutly I'll take thy par Dearest cast care away let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll near depart I'll live and die with thee . Put me on men attire give me a Soldiers coat , I'll make King Charleses foes quickly to change their note . Cock your match , prim your pan let piercing bullets fly . I do not care a pin , whither I live or die : Dearest cast care away let kisses comfort thee Thou and I'll near depart I'll live and die with thee . She took a Musquet then and a sword by her side , In disguise like a man her valour so she tried , And with her true love she , marched forth courageously , And made away with speed , quite through the enemy . Dearest cast care away let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll near depart I'll live and die with thee . Their Soldiers brave and bold , behav'd themselves so well That all the Northern parts , of their deserts can tell ; Thus have you herd the n [ e ] us of a most valiant weight , And of his Lady brave . how stoutly they did fight . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll near depart , we two will still agree . FINIS . 