The Maids Revenge upon Cupid and Venus . Showing how Cupid with his dart Did wound and almost kill her hear But she recovering of her pain Reveng'd her self on him again : And how Vulcan the Black-Smith he did prove False to the Lass that did him love : And many other matters rare Within this Ditty spoken of are . To the Tune of Loves Tide , or , Flora Farewell . YOu Maids and Widows all a row , My mind I'de have you for to know How Cupid he hath conquered me , And crossed me in my jollity ; I was a Damsel fair and bright , That was beloved of many a wight , But afterwards it made me rue , To see that men prove so untrue . When I was fifteen years of age , Came Cupid in a fiery rage , And with his poisoned wounding dart , Shot through my skin , & peirct my heart , And having touched me to the quick I thereupon fell dangerous sick . And ever since that time I rue To see that young men , proves untrue . Then Suitors every day I had To comfort me , and make me glad , I entertain'd them willingly In hope to have a remedy , First came a Taylor fine and brave , Who proved at last a cunning knave He for to win my love did sue Whose flattering tongue did make me rue . He clipped , he kissed , be courted me , And said he would my husband be . He gave to me a gay gold ring In hope to have a better thing , He would have had my Maidenhead Before that I to him was wed , And had not I been very wise , The knave had played his Master prize . A bonny Weaver he came next To ease my mind that was perplexed ; With compliments he did me greet , And honey sugared kisses sweet , Perfumed gloves , and ribbons brave , As tokens of his love he gave : And for to speak of him the truth He was a very comely youth . He wooed me , and I gave consent , To be his wife was my intent , But cruel death did end his life , Before that I was made his wife , Oh had he lived I had been blessed , But being dead I am distressed . I must go seek a lover new , Which was the thing that ma [ worser ] e me rue . The second part to the same tune . A Glover he came next of all , A proper man both straight and tall , And said that I should be his bride , What fortune ever did betide ; But like a false dissembler he Forswore himself and forsook me : Which made my heart to melt and rue To see false men prove so untrue . Vulcan the Black-Smith that boon blade , Counted the best of all his trade ; He told me many a fluant tale , And feasted me with Cakes and Ale , Tokens of love he did me give , And I did verily believe , That he had been a lover true But like a knave he made me rue When first he came into the place He in his arms did me embrace ; With solemn oaths he did protest That of all Girls he loved me best , But [ tO ] he vild wretch did me forsake Another Sweetheart for to take , Which makes me sighs , lament , and weep , Because some Black-Smiths no faith can keep . And since that he from me was gone , Sweethearts I have had many a one ; But I will no more deceived be By any such like knaves as he . When young men's tongues do run most nimble , Their hearts do most of all dissemble : And like the Proverb used of old The hottest love is soonest cold . Therefore I'le set my heart at rest A single life becomes me best , No false dissembling cogging man Shall do me wrong do what he can . I'll break all Cupids darts in twain , And lose my self from Venus chain . I'll make great Jupiter to thunder And tear the Cyclops quite asunder . Great Neptune shall forsake , the Seas And Caron in his boat be drown'd , Before that I at any time Will to a flattering knave be bound : Shall I be bound that may be free ? Shall reason rule my raging mind ? Shall I love him that loves not me , No though I wink I am not blind . Yet let no one my words mistake , Though I against false love do speak ; I do not say but some men are Of qualities both rich and rare : Some men are honest , sure , and just Faithful to all that does them trust . Constant in actions , and in love , As true as is the turtle dove . When such a man I chance to see To him I fain would married be , And to him prove a loving wife So long as heaven affords me life . But to conclude , and end my Song , [ I ] n which I mean no creature wrong . Young men and maids I speak to you Change not and old love for a new . London , Printed for Fra. Grove , And entered according to Order . Finis L.P. The Maids Revenge upon Cupid and Venus . Showing how Cupid with his dart Did wound and almost kill her hear But she recovering of her pain Reveng'd her self on him again : And how Vulcan the Black-Smith he did prove False to the Lass that did him love : And many other matters rare Within this Ditty spoken of are . To the Tune of Loves Tide , or , Flora Farewell . YOu Maids and Widows all a row , My mind I'de have you for to know How Cupid he hath conquered me , And crossed me in my jollity ; I was a Damsel fair and bright , That was beloved of many a wight , But afterwards it made me rue , To see that men prove so untrue . When I was fifteen years of age , Came Cupid in a fiery rage , And with his poisoned wounding dart , Shot through my skin , & peirct my heart , And having touched me to the quick I thereupon fell dangerous sick . And ever since that time I rue To see that young men , proves untrue . Then Suitors every day I had To comfort me , and make me glad , I entertain'd them willingly In hope to have a remedy , First came a Taylor fine and brave , Who proved at last a cunning knave He for to win my love did sue Whose flattering tongue did make me rue . He clipped , he kissed , be courted me , And said he would my husband be . He gave to me a gay gold ring In hope to have a better thing , He would have had my Maidenhead Before that I to him was wed , And had not I been very wise , The knave had played his Master prize . A bonny Weaver he came next To ease my mind that was perplexed ; With compliments he did me greet , And honey sugared kisses sweet , Perfumed gloves , and ribbons brave , As tokens of his love he gave : And for to speak of him the truth He was a very comely youth . He wooed me , and I gave consent , To be his wife was my intent , But cruel death did end his life , Before that I was made his wife , Oh had he lived I had been blessed , But being dead I am distressed . I must go seek a lover new , Which was the thing that ma [ worser ] e me rue . The second part to the same tune . A Glover he came next of all , A proper man both straight and tall , And said that I should be his bride , What fortune ever did betide ; But like a false dissembler he Forswore himself and forsook me : Which made my heart to melt and rue To see false men prove so untrue . Vulcan the Black-Smith that boon blade , Counted the best of all his trade ; He told me many a fluant tale , And feasted me with Cakes and Ale , Tokens of love he did me give , And I did verily believe , That he had been a lover true But like a knave he made me rue When first he came into the place He in his arms did me embrace ; With solemn oaths he did protest That of all Girls he loved me best , But [ tO ] he vild wretch did me forsake Another Sweetheart for to take , Which makes me sighs , lament , and weep , Because some Black-Smiths no faith can keep . And since that he from me was gone , Sweethearts I have had many a one ; But I will no more deceived be By any such like knaves as he . When young men's tongues do run most nimble , Their hearts do most of all dissemble : And like the Proverb used of old The hottest love is soonest cold . Therefore I'le set my heart at rest A single life becomes me best , No false dissembling cogging man Shall do me wrong do what he can . I'll break all Cupids darts in twain , And lose my self from Venus chain . I'll make great Jupiter to thunder And tear the Cyclops quite asunder . Great Neptune shall forsake , the Seas And Caron in his boat be drown'd , Before that I at any time Will to a flattering knave be bound : Shall I be bound that may be free ? Shall reason rule my raging mind ? Shall I love him that loves not me , No though I wink I am not blind . Yet let no one my words mistake , Though I against false love do speak ; I do not say but some men are Of qualities both rich and rare : Some men are honest , sure , and just Faithful to all that does them trust . Constant in actions , and in love , As true as is the turtle dove . When such a man I chance to see To him I fain would married be , And to him prove a loving wife So long as heaven affords me life . But to conclude , and end my Song , [ I ] n which I mean no creature wrong . Young men and maids I speak to you Change not and old love for a new . London , Printed for Fra. Grove , And entered according to Order . Finis L.P. 