News from More-lane ; OR , A mad knavish and uncivil Frolic of a Tapster dwelling there , who buying a fat Coult for eigh - teen pnce , the Mare being dead , & he not knowing how to bring the Coult up by hand , killed it and had it baked in a Pasty , and invited many of his Neighbours to the Feast ; and telling of them what it was ; the Conceit thereof made them all Sick : as by this following Ditty you shall hear . The Tapster fil'd the Cup , up to the brim , And all to make the little Coult to swim ; But all that hears it , says that for his gain , He is no better then a Wag in grain . The Tune is , A Health to the best of Men . THere is a Tapster in More-lane , that did a Pasty make , All People do of him complain , now for his gross mistake , He instead of Venison fine a good fat Coult did kill , And put in store of Clarret Wine , his humour to fulfil . A peck of Flower at the least , with six pound of Butter . He made his Neighbours such a Feast , and bid them all to Supper : A curious fine fat Colt it was , and handled daintily : The Tapster prov'd himself and Ass . for this his knavery . Likewise there was a Baker too that lived in that place , And he was a partaker too , I speak in his disgrace , For he found Flower to make it , I speak not in his praise , And afterwards did bake it , his knavery for to raise . Likewise there was a Carman too , and he found Butter for it ; But when the knavery Neighbors knew , they could not but abhor i And then there was a Cook Sir , at More-gate does he dwell , And he then under took Sir ; to make the Pasty well . Some say it eat as mellow then as any little Chick : But I tell thee goodfellow then , it made the Neighbuors sick : The Tapster had his humour , but the Neighbours had the worst , Yet I do hear they had good Beer , and danty Pasty-crust Then every jovial Blade Sir , that lived in that place ; They Money freely paid Sir , they scorned to be base . They cal'd for Beer , likewise for Ale , because the Coult should swim , And of the Cup they would not fail . but fil'd it to the brim . The second part , to the same tune , THe Car-mans Wife cry'd out and said troath 'tis good Meat indeed , So likewise said the chamber-Maid , when she on it did feed , The Tapster bid them welcome then , and Wea-hae did he cry , You are all welcome Gentlemen , you'r welcome heartily . The Glovers Wife was in a heat , and did both pout and mump , Because they would not let her eat the Buttock and the Rump . As for the merry Weavers Wife , I will give her , her endue She spent her coin to end the strife , among that jovial Crew . This Colt was not so wholesome though as was a good fat Hogg . Yet one came in and told the crew it was a mangy Dog ? But he that told them was too blame , and was but a silly Dolt . The Tapster bid him peace for shame , for it a good fat Colt. The Colt he cost me eighteen pence , the Tapster he did say , I hope good Folks ere you go hence , you for your meat will pay . Pox take you for a Rogue quoth one , another he fel'd oaks , Another said he was undone ? it worse then Harry-choaks . The Porter he did give nine pence , to have it in a Pie . The People ere they went from thence , did feed most heartily . It was the jovial Baker , the knavish Tapster too , The Car - [ ma ] n was partaker , was not this a Jovial Crew The Pothecary he was there , Far , and the Sexton too : The Tapster put them in great fear , He made them for to spue . Now was not this a Knave in grain to use his Neighbours so . When Knave are scarce , hee'l go for twan , good People what think you . The Tapster he came in at last , and gave the People vomits : I hope ( quoth he ) the worst is past , I have eased your foul Stomachs , Wea-hea , cry'd the Tapster then , how do you like my spor The Women said , so did the Men , the Devil take you for't . At Brainford as I herd some say , a mangy Dog was eat : This was not half so bad as that , and yet the fault was great ; Men of good fashion then was there , that went both fine and brave . Now all do say , that this does hear , the Tapster is a Knave . FINIS . London , Printed for William Gammon , and to be should in Smithfield . News from More-lane ; OR , A mad knavish and uncivil Frolic of a Tapster dwelling there , who buying a fat Coult for eigh - teen pnce , the Mare being dead , & he not knowing how to bring the Coult up by hand , killed it and had it baked in a Pasty , and invited many of his Neighbours to the Feast ; and telling of them what it was ; the Conceit thereof made them all Sick : as by this following Ditty you shall hear . The Tapster fil'd the Cup , up to the brim , And all to make the little Coult to swim ; But all that hears it , says that for his gain , He is no better then a Wag in grain . The Tune is , A Health to the best of Men . THere is a Tapster in More-lane , that did a Pasty make , All People do of him complain , now for his gross mistake , He instead of Venison fine a good fat Coult did kill , And put in store of Clarret Wine , his humour to fulfil . A peck of Flower at the least , with six pound of Butter . He made his Neighbours such a Feast , and bid them all to Supper : A curious fine fat Colt it was , and handled daintily : The Tapster prov'd himself and Ass . for this his knavery . Likewise there was a Baker too that lived in that place , And he was a partaker too , I speak in his disgrace , For he found Flower to make it , I speak not in his praise , And afterwards did bake it , his knavery for to raise . Likewise there was a Carman too , and he found Butter for it ; But when the knavery Neighbors knew , they could not but abhor i And then there was a Cook Sir , at More-gate does he dwell , And he then under took Sir ; to make the Pasty well . Some say it eat as mellow then as any little Chick : But I tell thee goodfellow then , it made the Neighbuors sick : The Tapster had his humour , but the Neighbours had the worst , Yet I do hear they had good Beer , and danty Pasty-crust Then every jovial Blade Sir , that lived in that place ; They Money freely paid Sir , they scorned to be base . They cal'd for Beer , likewise for Ale , because the Coult should swim , And of the Cup they would not fail . but fil'd it to the brim . The second part , to the same tune , THe Car-mans Wife cry'd out and said troath 'tis good Meat indeed , So likewise said the chamber-Maid , when she on it did feed , The Tapster bid them welcome then , and Wea-hae did he cry , You are all welcome Gentlemen , you'r welcome heartily . The Glovers Wife was in a heat , and did both pout and mump , Because they would not let her eat the Buttock and the Rump . As for the merry Weavers Wife , I will give her , her endue She spent her coin to end the strife , among that jovial Crew . This Colt was not so wholesome though as was a good fat Hogg . Yet one came in and told the crew it was a mangy Dog ? But he that told them was too blame , and was but a silly Dolt . The Tapster bid him peace for shame , for it a good fat Colt. The Colt he cost me eighteen pence , the Tapster he did say , I hope good Folks ere you go hence , you for your meat will pay . Pox take you for a Rogue quoth one , another he fel'd oaks , Another said he was undone ? it worse then Harry-choaks . The Porter he did give nine pence , to have it in a Pie . The People ere they went from thence , did feed most heartily . It was the jovial Baker , the knavish Tapster too , The Car - [ ma ] n was partaker , was not this a Jovial Crew The Pothecary he was there , Far , and the Sexton too : The Tapster put them in great fear , He made them for to spue . Now was not this a Knave in grain to use his Neighbours so . When Knave are scarce , hee'l go for twan , good People what think you . The Tapster he came in at last , and gave the People vomits : I hope ( quoth he ) the worst is past , I have eased your foul Stomachs , Wea-hea , cry'd the Tapster then , how do you like my spor The Women said , so did the Men , the Devil take you for't . At Brainford as I herd some say , a mangy Dog was eat : This was not half so bad as that , and yet the fault was great ; Men of good fashion then was there , that went both fine and brave . Now all do say , that this does hear , the Tapster is a Knave . FINIS . London , Printed for William Gammon , and to be should in Smithfield . 