Mock-Beggers Hall , with his situation in the spacious Country , called , Any where . To the Tune of It is not your Northern Nanny ; or Sweet is the Lass that loves me . IN ancient times when as plain dealing Was most of all in fashion , There was not then half so much stealing , Nor men so given to passion ; But now a days , truth so decays , And false knaves there are plenty , So pride exceeds all worthy deeds , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . The hangman now the fashion keeps , And swaggers like our gall [ l ] ants ; While love and charity sits and weeps , To see them waste their Talents ; Spend all their store upon a whore , Such Prodigals there are plenty ; Thus brave it out , while men them flout , And Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Ned Swash hath fetch'd his clothes from pawn With dropping of the barrel , Joan Du [ s ] tO hath hought a smock of Lawn , And now begins to quarrel , She thinks her self poor silly self , To be the best of twenty , And yet the whore is wondrous poor , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . I read in ancient times of poor , That men of worthy calling , Built Almshouses and Spittles store , Which now are all down falling ; And few men seek them to repair , Nor now is there one among twenty , That for good deeds will take any care , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Farm-houses which their father's built And Land well kept by tillage , Their prodigal Sons have sold for gilded , In every Town and Village : To the City and Court they do resort With gold and Silver plenty ; And there they spend their time in sport , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Young Landlords when to age they come , Their rends they would be racking , The tenant must give a golden sum , Or else he is turn'd packing : Great fines and double rend beside , Or else they'l not contented be , It is for to maintain their monstrous pride , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Their father's went in homely freeze , And wore good plain cloth breeches ; Their stockings with the same agrees , Sow'd on with good strong stitches : They were not called Gentlemen , Though they had wealth great plenty . Now every gull's grown worshipful , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . The second part , to the same Tune . NO Gold nor Silver parchment lace Was worn but by our Nobles , Nor would the honest harmless face , Wear Cuffs with so many doubles ; Their bans were to their shirts sown then , Yet cloth was full as plenty ; Now one band hath more cloth then ten , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Now we are Apes in imitation , The more indeed's the pity ; The City follows the strangers fashion , The Country follows the City : And ere one fashion is known throughout , Another they will invent ye ; 'Tis all your gallants study about , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Me thinks it is a great reproach To those that are nobly descended , When for their pleasures cannot have a coach , Wherewith they might be attended ; But every beggarly Jack and Gill , That eat scant a good meal in twenty , Must through the streets be janted still While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . There's some are rattled thorough the streets , Probatum est , I tell it ; Whose names are wrapp'd in parchment sheets , It grievs their hearts to spell it , They are not able two men to keep , With a coachman they must contented be , Which at Goldsmiths hall door in's box lies a sleep , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty , Our Gentlewomen whose means is nothing To that which they make show off , Must use all the fashions in their clothing , Which they can hear or know of ; They take such care themselves to deck , That money is oft so scanty , The belly is forc'd to complain to the back , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . There is a crew , and a very mad crew , That about the Town does swagger , That seems like Knights to the peoples view , And wear both sword and dagger ; That sweetens their clothes once a weak , Hunger with them is so plenty , The Broker will not have them to seek , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Some Gentlemen and Citizens have In diverse eminent places , Erected houses fine and brave , Which stood for the owners graces , Let any poor to such a door Come , they expecting plenty , They there may ask till their throats are soar , For Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Thus plainly I to you declare , How strangely times are changed ; What humours in the people are , How virtue is estranged : Now [ e ] very Jackanapes can strut , Such Coxcombs there are plenty , But at the last in Prison shut , So Mock-beggar hall stands empty . London , Printed for Richard Harper , at the Bible and Harp in Smithfield . Mock-Beggers Hall , with his situation in the spacious Country , called , Any where . To the Tune of It is not your Northern Nanny ; or Sweet is the Lass that loves me . IN ancient times when as plain dealing Was most of all in fashion , There was not then half so much stealing , Nor men so given to passion ; But now a days , truth so decays , And false knaves there are plenty , So pride exceeds all worthy deeds , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . The hangman now the fashion keeps , And swaggers like our gall [ l ] ants ; While love and charity sits and weeps , To see them waste their Talents ; Spend all their store upon a whore , Such Prodigals there are plenty ; Thus brave it out , while men them flout , And Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Ned Swash hath fetch'd his clothes from pawn With dropping of the barrel , Joan Du [ s ] tO hath hought a smock of Lawn , And now begins to quarrel , She thinks her self poor silly self , To be the best of twenty , And yet the whore is wondrous poor , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . I read in ancient times of poor , That men of worthy calling , Built Almshouses and Spittles store , Which now are all down falling ; And few men seek them to repair , Nor now is there one among twenty , That for good deeds will take any care , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Farm-houses which their father's built And Land well kept by tillage , Their prodigal Sons have sold for gilded , In every Town and Village : To the City and Court they do resort With gold and Silver plenty ; And there they spend their time in sport , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Young Landlords when to age they come , Their rends they would be racking , The tenant must give a golden sum , Or else he is turn'd packing : Great fines and double rend beside , Or else they'l not contented be , It is for to maintain their monstrous pride , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Their father's went in homely freeze , And wore good plain cloth breeches ; Their stockings with the same agrees , Sow'd on with good strong stitches : They were not called Gentlemen , Though they had wealth great plenty . Now every gull's grown worshipful , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . The second part , to the same Tune . NO Gold nor Silver parchment lace Was worn but by our Nobles , Nor would the honest harmless face , Wear Cuffs with so many doubles ; Their bans were to their shirts sown then , Yet cloth was full as plenty ; Now one band hath more cloth then ten , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Now we are Apes in imitation , The more indeed's the pity ; The City follows the strangers fashion , The Country follows the City : And ere one fashion is known throughout , Another they will invent ye ; 'Tis all your gallants study about , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Me thinks it is a great reproach To those that are nobly descended , When for their pleasures cannot have a coach , Wherewith they might be attended ; But every beggarly Jack and Gill , That eat scant a good meal in twenty , Must through the streets be janted still While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . There's some are rattled thorough the streets , Probatum est , I tell it ; Whose names are wrapp'd in parchment sheets , It grievs their hearts to spell it , They are not able two men to keep , With a coachman they must contented be , Which at Goldsmiths hall door in's box lies a sleep , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty , Our Gentlewomen whose means is nothing To that which they make show off , Must use all the fashions in their clothing , Which they can hear or know of ; They take such care themselves to deck , That money is oft so scanty , The belly is forc'd to complain to the back , While Mock-beggar hall stands empty . There is a crew , and a very mad crew , That about the Town does swagger , That seems like Knights to the peoples view , And wear both sword and dagger ; That sweetens their clothes once a weak , Hunger with them is so plenty , The Broker will not have them to seek , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Some Gentlemen and Citizens have In diverse eminent places , Erected houses fine and brave , Which stood for the owners graces , Let any poor to such a door Come , they expecting plenty , They there may ask till their throats are soar , For Mock-beggar hall stands empty . Thus plainly I to you declare , How strangely times are changed ; What humours in the people are , How virtue is estranged : Now [ e ] very Jackanapes can strut , Such Coxcombs there are plenty , But at the last in Prison shut , So Mock-beggar hall stands empty . London , Printed for Richard Harper , at the Bible and Harp in Smithfield . 