The Scotch Wooing : Or , JOCKEY of the Lough , and JENNY of the Lee : Jockey Wooes Jenny , for to be his Dear , But Jenny long time is in much fear ; lest Jockey should be false or prove unkind , But Jockey put that quite out of her mind , So that at length they fairly did agree , To strike a Bargain up , as you shall see . To the Tune of , Jockey's gone to the Wood . DEar jockey's gone to the Wood and Dame jenny's gone twa , Dear jockey would Court a good , but Dame jenny says nay : Come jenny my dearest love , prithee jenny fancy me : Thou art the blithest bonniest-Girl , And the featest Lass , that e're jockey's ey'n see . When Jockey had Woo'd her thus , she said prithee forbear , Thou Jockey art false I fear , and would Jenny ensnare : Dear Jenny believe it not , that thy Jockey is untrue , For I do swear by all that's good , In this pleasant Wood , and by Bonnet that's Blue . O Jockey shame favu thy Luggs , for telling like a Tale , It is not aw thy honey words , are like for to prevail : For Jenny is a harmless Lass , fearing for to be trappan'd , Although that Jockey is a Lad , But few like are to be had , in all fair Scotland . MY Jenny ne'r make a Din , but let us gang play , Since that thou art so neat and trim upon this Holiday : I'le give thee ale and spiced cakes , I , and love the tenderly , There we' have a merry bout , And keep a Revel Rout , under the Greenwood Tree . Dear Jockey I like it weel , a little sport to make , Yet do I fear that after all , poor Jenny's heart should ache : I would not for a score of pounds , I should come unto disgrace , Then prithee Jockey get the gone , and leave thy Jenny all alone , in this uncouth place . O jenny ne'r tell me that , thy Jockey's like a Loon , Thou need'st not for to be a fraid , by Jockey to lig down : For as I am a lively Lad , meaning to the honestly , I'le give thee nothing that is bad , But the best that can be had , as Jenny shall see . O Jockey should I believe , 'tis sure what you say , And that you should yobr Jenny leave , and basely gang away : My Jenny i'le plighted my Troth , ever to thee to be true , Then believe me what I say , For I scorn to gang a way , to make my Jenny rue . Why should I not now believe , when dear Jockey does swear , By Bonnet and awe that's good , that e're Jockey shall wear ? Then let us gang heam my dear , and be merry there a while , I love the heartily my joy , Thou art the only Boy , on whom Jenny shall smile . My Jenny thou chear'st my heart , to give thy consent , Thy Jockey will never start , but give Jenny conten A Trenchmore Galliard we will have all for joy this very night , And ith morn we'l gang toth' Kirk Where i'le see my Jenny smirk , as soon as day light . Thus Jockey and Jenny beath , agreed for to be wed ; For Jockey he thought it long to have Jenny in Bed : Next morning to the Kirk they went finely wedded for to be , And at this time are man & wife , Living free and void of strife , in their own Country . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - ball , in West-smithfield . The Scotch Wooing : Or , JOCKEY of the Lough , and JENNY of the Lee : Jockey Wooes Jenny , for to be his Dear , But Jenny long time is in much fear ; lest Jockey should be false or prove unkind , But Jockey put that quite out of her mind , So that at length they fairly did agree , To strike a Bargain up , as you shall see . To the Tune of , Jockey's gone to the Wood . DEar jockey's gone to the Wood and Dame jenny's gone twa , Dear jockey would Court a good , but Dame jenny says nay : Come jenny my dearest love , prithee jenny fancy me : Thou art the blithest bonniest-Girl , And the featest Lass , that e're jockey's ey'n see . When Jockey had Woo'd her thus , she said prithee forbear , Thou Jockey art false I fear , and would Jenny ensnare : Dear Jenny believe it not , that thy Jockey is untrue , For I do swear by all that's good , In this pleasant Wood , and by Bonnet that's Blue . O Jockey shame favu thy Luggs , for telling like a Tale , It is not aw thy honey words , are like for to prevail : For Jenny is a harmless Lass , fearing for to be trappan'd , Although that Jockey is a Lad , But few like are to be had , in all fair Scotland . MY Jenny ne'r make a Din , but let us gang play , Since that thou art so neat and trim upon this Holiday : I'le give thee ale and spiced cakes , I , and love the tenderly , There we' have a merry bout , And keep a Revel Rout , under the Greenwood Tree . Dear Jockey I like it weel , a little sport to make , Yet do I fear that after all , poor Jenny's heart should ache : I would not for a score of pounds , I should come unto disgrace , Then prithee Jockey get the gone , and leave thy Jenny all alone , in this uncouth place . O jenny ne'r tell me that , thy Jockey's like a Loon , Thou need'st not for to be a fraid , by Jockey to lig down : For as I am a lively Lad , meaning to the honestly , I'le give thee nothing that is bad , But the best that can be had , as Jenny shall see . O Jockey should I believe , 'tis sure what you say , And that you should yobr Jenny leave , and basely gang away : My Jenny i'le plighted my Troth , ever to thee to be true , Then believe me what I say , For I scorn to gang a way , to make my Jenny rue . Why should I not now believe , when dear Jockey does swear , By Bonnet and awe that's good , that e're Jockey shall wear ? Then let us gang heam my dear , and be merry there a while , I love the heartily my joy , Thou art the only Boy , on whom Jenny shall smile . My Jenny thou chear'st my heart , to give thy consent , Thy Jockey will never start , but give Jenny conten A Trenchmore Galliard we will have all for joy this very night , And ith morn we'l gang toth' Kirk Where i'le see my Jenny smirk , as soon as day light . Thus Jockey and Jenny beath , agreed for to be wed ; For Jockey he thought it long to have Jenny in Bed : Next morning to the Kirk they went finely wedded for to be , And at this time are man & wife , Living free and void of strife , in their own Country . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - ball , in West-smithfield . 