The two inseparable brother's . OR A true and strange description of a Gentleman ( and Italian by birth ) about seventeene years of age , who hath and imperfect ( yet living ) Brother , growing out of his side , having a head , two arms , and one leg , all per - fectly to be seen . They were both baptised together ; the imperfect is called John Baptist , and the other Lazarus . Admire the Creator in his Creatures . To the tune of The wandering Jewes Chronicle . TO England lately news is come , Which many parts of Christendome have by experience found To be the strangest and most rare , That fame did to the world declare , since man first walked o'th ground . I many Prodigies have seen , Creatures that have preposterous been , to nature in their birth , But such a thing as this my theme , Makes all the rest seem but a dream , the like was never on earth . A Gentleman well qualifide , [ Do ] th bear his brother at his side , [ insepa ] rably knit , [ As in this figure ] e you may see , [ And both togethe ] r living be , [ the world admires ] at it . [ In Italy this youth was born , Whom nature freely did adorn with shape and pulchritude , Like other men in each respect And not with common intellect he's inwardly endued . ] This youngman does completely walk , He can both read , write , sing , or talk , without pain or detraction , And when he speaks the other head , Does move the lips both Ruby read , not speaking but in actium . This head and face is rightly fram'd , With every part that can be nam'd , ears , eyes , lips , nose , and chin , His upperlip hath some beard on't , Which he who bears him yet does want , this may much wonder win . One arme's about his brother cast , That does embrace his body fast , the other hangs by , These arms have hands with fingers all , Yet as a child's they are but small , pinch any part hee'l cry . Only one leg with foot and toes Is to be seen , and some suppose , the other is contain'd [ With ] thin his brother's body , yet [ Custom ] hath us'd him so to it , [ He scarcely does feel ] pain'd . The second part , To the same tune . YEt nothing does the lesser eat , He's only nourish'd with the meat wherewith the other feeds , By which it seems though outward parts They have for two , yet not two hearts , this admiration breeds . For sickness and infirmities , I mean Quotidian maladies , which man by nature hath , Sometime one's sick , the other well This is a story strange to tell , but he himself thus says . Th' imperfect once the small pox had , Which made the perfect brother sad , but he had never any , And if you nip it by the arm , Or do it any little harm , ( this hath been tried by many , ) It like and infant ( with voice weak ) Will cry out though it cannot speak , as sensible of pain , Which yet the other feeleth not , But if the one be cold or hight , that's common to both twaine . Some seaventeene years of age they be , A perfect proper youth is he to which the less does cleave , They were baptised being young , Few then did think they'd live so long , as few would now believe . But that to ratify this truth , Now in the Strand this wondrous youth is present to be seen , And he with his strange burden , hath been shown ( with marvel ) as he says to our good King and Queen . John Baptist is th' imperfect nam'd , Who through the christian world is fam'd , his Brother which him bears Was called Lazarus at the Font , And if we well consider on't a mystery in't appears . From Italy their native place , They have some certain late years space , gone one still with another , Indeed they cannot otherwise do , He that see's one must needs see two , the brother bears the brother . Through Germany , through Spain & France , ( Devoid of danger or mischance ) and other Christian Lands They travell'd have , nay rather one For both , so many miles hath gone , to show th' work of Gods hands . And now in England they have been About a month although unseen , till now obtaining leave , In seeing this or such strange things , Let us admire the King of Kings , and of his power conceive . That just opinion which is due , To him who is all good all true , whose works we can't find out , Let admiration then suffice , Sith theres no man that is so wise , but of's own wit may doubt . And so do I . FINIS . Martin Printed at London for Thomas Lamb [ ert ] the sign of the Horseshoe in Smithfield The two inseparable brother's . OR A true and strange description of a Gentleman ( and Italian by birth ) about seventeene years of age , who hath and imperfect ( yet living ) Brother , growing out of his side , having a head , two arms , and one leg , all per - fectly to be seen . They were both baptised together ; the imperfect is called John Baptist , and the other Lazarus . Admire the Creator in his Creatures . To the tune of The wandering Jewes Chronicle . TO England lately news is come , Which many parts of Christendome have by experience found To be the strangest and most rare , That fame did to the world declare , since man first walked o'th ground . I many Prodigies have seen , Creatures that have preposterous been , to nature in their birth , But such a thing as this my theme , Makes all the rest seem but a dream , the like was never on earth . A Gentleman well qualifide , [ Do ] th bear his brother at his side , [ insepa ] rably knit , [ As in this figure ] e you may see , [ And both togethe ] r living be , [ the world admires ] at it . [ In Italy this youth was born , Whom nature freely did adorn with shape and pulchritude , Like other men in each respect And not with common intellect he's inwardly endued . ] This youngman does completely walk , He can both read , write , sing , or talk , without pain or detraction , And when he speaks the other head , Does move the lips both Ruby read , not speaking but in actium . This head and face is rightly fram'd , With every part that can be nam'd , ears , eyes , lips , nose , and chin , His upperlip hath some beard on't , Which he who bears him yet does want , this may much wonder win . One arme's about his brother cast , That does embrace his body fast , the other hangs by , These arms have hands with fingers all , Yet as a child's they are but small , pinch any part hee'l cry . Only one leg with foot and toes Is to be seen , and some suppose , the other is contain'd [ With ] thin his brother's body , yet [ Custom ] hath us'd him so to it , [ He scarcely does feel ] pain'd . The second part , To the same tune . YEt nothing does the lesser eat , He's only nourish'd with the meat wherewith the other feeds , By which it seems though outward parts They have for two , yet not two hearts , this admiration breeds . For sickness and infirmities , I mean Quotidian maladies , which man by nature hath , Sometime one's sick , the other well This is a story strange to tell , but he himself thus says . Th' imperfect once the small pox had , Which made the perfect brother sad , but he had never any , And if you nip it by the arm , Or do it any little harm , ( this hath been tried by many , ) It like and infant ( with voice weak ) Will cry out though it cannot speak , as sensible of pain , Which yet the other feeleth not , But if the one be cold or hight , that's common to both twaine . Some seaventeene years of age they be , A perfect proper youth is he to which the less does cleave , They were baptised being young , Few then did think they'd live so long , as few would now believe . But that to ratify this truth , Now in the Strand this wondrous youth is present to be seen , And he with his strange burden , hath been shown ( with marvel ) as he says to our good King and Queen . John Baptist is th' imperfect nam'd , Who through the christian world is fam'd , his Brother which him bears Was called Lazarus at the Font , And if we well consider on't a mystery in't appears . From Italy their native place , They have some certain late years space , gone one still with another , Indeed they cannot otherwise do , He that see's one must needs see two , the brother bears the brother . Through Germany , through Spain & France , ( Devoid of danger or mischance ) and other Christian Lands They travell'd have , nay rather one For both , so many miles hath gone , to show th' work of Gods hands . And now in England they have been About a month although unseen , till now obtaining leave , In seeing this or such strange things , Let us admire the King of Kings , and of his power conceive . That just opinion which is due , To him who is all good all true , whose works we can't find out , Let admiration then suffice , Sith theres no man that is so wise , but of's own wit may doubt . And so do I . FINIS . Martin Printed at London for Thomas Lamb [ ert ] the sign of the Horseshoe in Smithfield 