The Great Boobee . To a pleasant new Tune ; Or , Salengers Round . MY Friends if you will understand my fortune's what they are I once had Cattle , House and Land , but now am never the near , My Father left a good estate as I may tell to thee , I cozened was of all I had like a great Boobee . I went to School with a good intent , and for to learn my book , And all the day I went to play , in it I never did look , Full seven years , or very nigh , as I may tell to thee , I could hardly say my Christ-cross-row like a great Boobee . My Father then in all the haste , did set me to the Blow , And for to lash the horse about , indeed I knew not how ; My Father took his whip in his hand , and soundly lashed me He call'd me Fool and Country clown and great Boobee . But I did from my Vather run , for I will blow no more , Because he hath so slashed me , and made my side so soar : But I will go to London Town , zome vashions for to see When I came there they call'd me Clown and great Boobee . But as I went along the street , I carried my hat in my hand , And to every one that I did meet , I bravely bust my hand ; Some did laugh , and some did scoff , and some did mock at me , And some did say I was a Woodcock , and a great Boobee . Then did I walk in haste to Pauls , the Steeple for to view Because I herd some people say , it should be built new , Then I god up unto the top , the City for to see , It was so high it made me cry like a great Boobee . From thence I went to Westminster , and for to see the Tombs , O , said I , what a house is here with and infinite sighed of Rooms ? Sweetly the Abbey Bells' did ring it was a fine zight to see , Me thoughts I was going to heaven in a string like a great Boobee . The second part , To the same Tune BUt as I went along the street , the most part of the day Many Gallants did I meet methought they were very gay , I blew my nose , and pist my hose some people did me see , They said I was a beastly fool , and a great Boobee . Next day I through Piecorner past , the Roast-meat on the stall Invited me to take a taste my money was but small , The meat I picked , the Cook me kicked as I may tell to thee He beatrice me zore , and made me roar like a great Boobee . As I through Smithfield lately walked a gallant Lass I met Familiarly with me she talked which I cannot forget , She proffered me a pint of wine me thought she was wondrous free , To the Tavern then I went with her like a great Boobee . She told me we were near of kin , and call'd for wine good store , Before the reckoning was brought in my Cousin prov'd a Whore My purse she picked , and went a way my Cousin cozened me The Vintner kicked me out of doog like a great Boobee . At the Exchange when I came there , I saw most gallant things I thought the pictures living were of all our English Kings , I doffed my hat , and made a leg and kneeled on my knee The people laughed , and call'd me fool , and great Boobee . To Paris Garden then I went , where there was great resort , My pleasure was my punishment , I did not like the sport . The Garden bull with his stout horns on high then tossed me ; I did bewray my self with fear like a great Boobee . The Bearheard went to save me then , the people flocked about , I told to the Bear-garden men , my Guts were almost out , They said I stunk most grievously no man would pity me , They call'd me witless Fool and Ass , and great Boobee . Then over the water I did pass as you shall understand , I dropped into the Thames alas before I came to Land , The Waterman did help me out , and thus did say to me , This not thy fortune to be drown'd thou great Boobee . But I have learned so much wit shall shorten all my cares , If I can but a license get to play before the Bears , 'Twill be a gallant place indeed , as I may tell to thee , Then who dares call me Fool or Ass , or great Boobee . FINIS . London , Printed for R.I. Entered according to Oder . The Great Boobee . To a pleasant new Tune ; Or , Salengers Round . MY Friends if you will understand my fortune's what they are I once had Cattle , House and Land , but now am never the near , My Father left a good estate as I may tell to thee , I cozened was of all I had like a great Boobee . I went to School with a good intent , and for to learn my book , And all the day I went to play , in it I never did look , Full seven years , or very nigh , as I may tell to thee , I could hardly say my Christ-cross-row like a great Boobee . My Father then in all the haste , did set me to the Blow , And for to lash the horse about , indeed I knew not how ; My Father took his whip in his hand , and soundly lashed me He call'd me Fool and Country clown and great Boobee . But I did from my Vather run , for I will blow no more , Because he hath so slashed me , and made my side so soar : But I will go to London Town , zome vashions for to see When I came there they call'd me Clown and great Boobee . But as I went along the street , I carried my hat in my hand , And to every one that I did meet , I bravely bust my hand ; Some did laugh , and some did scoff , and some did mock at me , And some did say I was a Woodcock , and a great Boobee . Then did I walk in haste to Pauls , the Steeple for to view Because I herd some people say , it should be built new , Then I god up unto the top , the City for to see , It was so high it made me cry like a great Boobee . From thence I went to Westminster , and for to see the Tombs , O , said I , what a house is here with and infinite sighed of Rooms ? Sweetly the Abbey Bells' did ring it was a fine zight to see , Me thoughts I was going to heaven in a string like a great Boobee . The second part , To the same Tune BUt as I went along the street , the most part of the day Many Gallants did I meet methought they were very gay , I blew my nose , and pist my hose some people did me see , They said I was a beastly fool , and a great Boobee . Next day I through Piecorner past , the Roast-meat on the stall Invited me to take a taste my money was but small , The meat I picked , the Cook me kicked as I may tell to thee He beatrice me zore , and made me roar like a great Boobee . As I through Smithfield lately walked a gallant Lass I met Familiarly with me she talked which I cannot forget , She proffered me a pint of wine me thought she was wondrous free , To the Tavern then I went with her like a great Boobee . She told me we were near of kin , and call'd for wine good store , Before the reckoning was brought in my Cousin prov'd a Whore My purse she picked , and went a way my Cousin cozened me The Vintner kicked me out of doog like a great Boobee . At the Exchange when I came there , I saw most gallant things I thought the pictures living were of all our English Kings , I doffed my hat , and made a leg and kneeled on my knee The people laughed , and call'd me fool , and great Boobee . To Paris Garden then I went , where there was great resort , My pleasure was my punishment , I did not like the sport . The Garden bull with his stout horns on high then tossed me ; I did bewray my self with fear like a great Boobee . The Bearheard went to save me then , the people flocked about , I told to the Bear-garden men , my Guts were almost out , They said I stunk most grievously no man would pity me , They call'd me witless Fool and Ass , and great Boobee . Then over the water I did pass as you shall understand , I dropped into the Thames alas before I came to Land , The Waterman did help me out , and thus did say to me , This not thy fortune to be drown'd thou great Boobee . But I have learned so much wit shall shorten all my cares , If I can but a license get to play before the Bears , 'Twill be a gallant place indeed , as I may tell to thee , Then who dares call me Fool or Ass , or great Boobee . FINIS . London , Printed for R.I. Entered according to Oder . 