A True Relation , Of The great Floods that happened in many parts of England in December and January last , to the undoing of Many the drownding of cattle and driving down of bridges and houses the drownding of people and washing up corn by the roots which was the means of Rising the princes of corn in and about the City , Of London ; with a warning for all people to amend their lives lest a worse thing befalls us . The Tune is , aim not to high . O England , England , this high time to repent , thy drunkenness and whoredom now lament The Lord his judgments daily one us poor , Yet daily into since we run the more . Thy swearing and profaning the Lords name , At last it will come Home unto thy shame The Lord is Angry now we plainly see Which is the cause of all our misery . On Sabbath days it is usual now to see , Taverns and ale houses filled to be , When as the Churches empty are we know , Man still delights to work his overthrow . Thou that dost waste thy means upon thy pride On paint and patches , with false hair beside And cant afford a penny for the poor . The Lord has judgments still for thee in store . Thousands of sheep within the fenns were lost Great Waters over banks a loft were tossed Hay Cocks the waters likewise did suck in Both beast and foul do suffer for men since . Thou covetous man which makes thy gold thy God This time for you to dread Gods heavy rod , Forbore to gripe the widow and fatherless , Have mercy to the poor in there distress . For God his judgments still on us do poor , If we repent his mercy lies in store The heavens has wept sufficient for men since Now to repent 'tis high time to begin . Those floods which here has been in England round Great losses many hundreds ha's found , No cattle in the Marshes then could stay But straight the waters made of them a pray Great mills that work for to keep man alive , Those waters did against them so much strive They were washed down with corn & all together , It were for men since that God did send such weather Great bridges that were built with stone & wood Were broken down by this same raging flood . Houses were overthrown the more's the pity , Unto the loss of many town and city . Corn by the Roots were washed out of ground , As by Experience poor people has found , Which rais'd the princes of bred corn I tell you , The poor does suffer many hungry belly . O Lord look down in mercy on us all , And give us grace upon thy name to call Fullness of bred to wantonness we turn And yet for since we do not seem to mourn . In many places people they were drowned , Infants in cradles one the shore was found Those Inundations have thousands annoyed , Both men and beast by it has been destroyed . But now 'tis forgotten as I may say , We take delight to sin both night and day , For all such heavey Judgments God does send Our lives we do not strive for to amend . This not long so as we may understand , Since God did lay on us his heavy hand Of Pestilence which made us all to weep . To see some people drop down dead in street The fire also Raged very soar : It turned many thousands out of door Women of childbed in the fields did lie , Me thinks I hear still many doleful cry . Cruel and bloody wars has been also , Thousands has lost their lives against their foe And now again these waters mounting high , May cause many with hunger for to die : Jerusalem we read did suffer much . Because to serve the Lord many did grutch , A famine came and made all things so dear , That Rats and mice was held as dainty fare . And more then that they did for want of meat , Both rost and boil there children to eat , Poor little babies they did lie at stake , And suffer torments for their parents sake . So to conclude let us our lives amend , Then God his blessing speedily will send To keep this song in mind do not deny , And all ways think that one day thou must die . London , Printed for J. Clark , at the Bible and Harp , in West-Smifield , L.W. A True Relation , Of The great Floods that happened in many parts of England in December and January last , to the undoing of Many the drownding of cattle and driving down of bridges and houses the drownding of people and washing up corn by the roots which was the means of Rising the princes of corn in and about the City , Of London ; with a warning for all people to amend their lives lest a worse thing befalls us . The Tune is , aim not to high . O England , England , this high time to repent , thy drunkenness and whoredom now lament The Lord his judgments daily one us poor , Yet daily into since we run the more . Thy swearing and profaning the Lords name , At last it will come Home unto thy shame The Lord is Angry now we plainly see Which is the cause of all our misery . On Sabbath days it is usual now to see , Taverns and ale houses filled to be , When as the Churches empty are we know , Man still delights to work his overthrow . Thou that dost waste thy means upon thy pride On paint and patches , with false hair beside And cant afford a penny for the poor . The Lord has judgments still for thee in store . Thousands of sheep within the fenns were lost Great Waters over banks a loft were tossed Hay Cocks the waters likewise did suck in Both beast and foul do suffer for men since . Thou covetous man which makes thy gold thy God This time for you to dread Gods heavy rod , Forbore to gripe the widow and fatherless , Have mercy to the poor in there distress . For God his judgments still on us do poor , If we repent his mercy lies in store The heavens has wept sufficient for men since Now to repent 'tis high time to begin . Those floods which here has been in England round Great losses many hundreds ha's found , No cattle in the Marshes then could stay But straight the waters made of them a pray Great mills that work for to keep man alive , Those waters did against them so much strive They were washed down with corn & all together , It were for men since that God did send such weather Great bridges that were built with stone & wood Were broken down by this same raging flood . Houses were overthrown the more's the pity , Unto the loss of many town and city . Corn by the Roots were washed out of ground , As by Experience poor people has found , Which rais'd the princes of bred corn I tell you , The poor does suffer many hungry belly . O Lord look down in mercy on us all , And give us grace upon thy name to call Fullness of bred to wantonness we turn And yet for since we do not seem to mourn . In many places people they were drowned , Infants in cradles one the shore was found Those Inundations have thousands annoyed , Both men and beast by it has been destroyed . But now 'tis forgotten as I may say , We take delight to sin both night and day , For all such heavey Judgments God does send Our lives we do not strive for to amend . This not long so as we may understand , Since God did lay on us his heavy hand Of Pestilence which made us all to weep . To see some people drop down dead in street The fire also Raged very soar : It turned many thousands out of door Women of childbed in the fields did lie , Me thinks I hear still many doleful cry . Cruel and bloody wars has been also , Thousands has lost their lives against their foe And now again these waters mounting high , May cause many with hunger for to die : Jerusalem we read did suffer much . Because to serve the Lord many did grutch , A famine came and made all things so dear , That Rats and mice was held as dainty fare . And more then that they did for want of meat , Both rost and boil there children to eat , Poor little babies they did lie at stake , And suffer torments for their parents sake . So to conclude let us our lives amend , Then God his blessing speedily will send To keep this song in mind do not deny , And all ways think that one day thou must die . London , Printed for J. Clark , at the Bible and Harp , in West-Smifield , L.W. 