r Englands Monthly Observations and Predictions , for the Year of our Blessed Saviour , 1653. Foretold by those two Famous Astrologers of our Age , Mr. William Lilly , and Mr. Culpeper . The Tune is , Fair Angel of England . WHat learned Astrologers writeth this Year , I purpose now unto you for to declare , Especially Lily a man of great learning , In famous Astrology by our discerning . And likewise Cullpeper , a man of great fame Known all over England even by that name , What they have foretold you here shall find , Strange and remarkable if it you will mind January . In January small news you shall hear , Unless it be so to fill you with care , The poor Country men will be grounded indeed , When he hath no fodder his Cattle to feed . From Spaine ; and Italy , we shall hear news , God grant poor men may not be sold for old shoes Oh trust to your selves where ear you see me Though I have good judgement in Astrology . February , In February men will not be dumb ; Though Angels of gold have quieted some , Nor yet shall this government altered be , Though turbulant spirits do strive to be free . We shall make a peace with some foreign nation , Even for our own good to keep sfirm our station And though many thunderbolts seek to disturb us It does not lie in their power yet for to curb us . March . All Urope this Month shall be at a stand At our preparations by Sea , and by Land Though we among our selves cannot agree Yet England , by others now feared shall be . The hearts of the dutch men this month shall wax cold , Even by the courage of our Seamen bold , Ind if I mistake not they shall seek their peace And so shall the honour of England increase . Aprill . The commonwealth this Month of Aprill . Shall stand in great fear some things will fallen ill For Taxes Increase and moneys grow scant And the poorer sort shall be in great want . We shall have a fear although we are strong , The Scot , or the Dutch , will do us some wrong Not by their power : but by treacheries , Although we from them have taine many a prize . May , Now this Month of May . it cannot be good , It seems to begin with horror and blood . Fevers and other diseases most strange . About the City and Country shall range . And this Month all Urope shall make preparation For war as I guess nations against nations Yet if we fight , we still shall see , England shall still victorious be . The second Part , to the same Tune , June Our governors shall labour to keep us still quiet , From civil desention , mischief and royot , And good moderate people shall labour each day , To persuade rude people to love and obey . This month we expect some newese from the north And I do guess some matters of worth , From Scotland and Holland & from other parts , But God send our Cuuntry-men true loyal hearts July . This July the Land shall quieted be , And in good condition as all men shall see , Holland once more shall sue for a peace , And there will be hope's the mischief will cease . If no peace be granted they'le do us small harm , Although about us like Locus they swarm , For our brave Seamen we need not to doubt , Will after some knocking put them to the rout . August , Much thunder and lightning in this month will be . The Air much distempered the people shall see , Many Sea-fights and blood shall be shed , And many for want of wit are misled : But after a while good news shall we hear , Come from the West to banish our fear , A Mutiny in Spaine is likely to be , And we in this Nation shall hardly agree . September . This month of September if things fallen out right , Holland and we shall give over to fight . By means of Ambassadors we are made friends . And Holland be willing to make us amends : The winds will grow high and may us affright , But there is no Enemy 'gainst us dare fight , Then be of good comfort and be not cast down , For we shall live quiet , though fortune may frown October . The 1 week of this month we shall hear good News , Our Merchant's return and nothing shall lose , From the Western parts with joy and content , After much toiling and labour is spent Our Land now shall flourish and Holland decline , And to see us prosper our Foes shall repine , If God be with us , who can us withstand , It is he alone that protecteth our Land. November . In this month of November good people shall strive Out of this Nation Tithes for to drive , Who squze the countryman out of his estate , Even by their tyranny of their decei Enough for to make all the people to rise , Against those that over them thus tyrannise . Who cannot be quiet until they be eased . And till that time come they will not be pleased , December . I would not have Merchant's now for to grieve , Their ships shall come home their minds to relieve For providence keeps them , then do not despair , This month of December good news you shall hear , And since it is now the last month in the Year , I would not have any possessed with fear , Let's pray unto God our comfort in chief , At the end of the year for to end all our grief . Printed for W. Gilbertson . r Englands Monthly Observations and Predictions , for the Year of our Blessed Saviour , 1653. Foretold by those two Famous Astrologers of our Age , Mr. William Lilly , and Mr. Culpeper . The Tune is , Fair Angel of England . WHat learned Astrologers writeth this Year , I purpose now unto you for to declare , Especially Lily a man of great learning , In famous Astrology by our discerning . And likewise Cullpeper , a man of great fame Known all over England even by that name , What they have foretold you here shall find , Strange and remarkable if it you will mind January . In January small news you shall hear , Unless it be so to fill you with care , The poor Country men will be grounded indeed , When he hath no fodder his Cattle to feed . From Spaine ; and Italy , we shall hear news , God grant poor men may not be sold for old shoes Oh trust to your selves where ear you see me Though I have good judgement in Astrology . February , In February men will not be dumb ; Though Angels of gold have quieted some , Nor yet shall this government altered be , Though turbulant spirits do strive to be free . We shall make a peace with some foreign nation , Even for our own good to keep sfirm our station And though many thunderbolts seek to disturb us It does not lie in their power yet for to curb us . March . All Urope this Month shall be at a stand At our preparations by Sea , and by Land Though we among our selves cannot agree Yet England , by others now feared shall be . The hearts of the dutch men this month shall wax cold , Even by the courage of our Seamen bold , Ind if I mistake not they shall seek their peace And so shall the honour of England increase . Aprill . The commonwealth this Month of Aprill . Shall stand in great fear some things will fallen ill For Taxes Increase and moneys grow scant And the poorer sort shall be in great want . We shall have a fear although we are strong , The Scot , or the Dutch , will do us some wrong Not by their power : but by treacheries , Although we from them have taine many a prize . May , Now this Month of May . it cannot be good , It seems to begin with horror and blood . Fevers and other diseases most strange . About the City and Country shall range . And this Month all Urope shall make preparation For war as I guess nations against nations Yet if we fight , we still shall see , England shall still victorious be . The second Part , to the same Tune , June Our governors shall labour to keep us still quiet , From civil desention , mischief and royot , And good moderate people shall labour each day , To persuade rude people to love and obey . This month we expect some newese from the north And I do guess some matters of worth , From Scotland and Holland & from other parts , But God send our Cuuntry-men true loyal hearts July . This July the Land shall quieted be , And in good condition as all men shall see , Holland once more shall sue for a peace , And there will be hope's the mischief will cease . If no peace be granted they'le do us small harm , Although about us like Locus they swarm , For our brave Seamen we need not to doubt , Will after some knocking put them to the rout . August , Much thunder and lightning in this month will be . The Air much distempered the people shall see , Many Sea-fights and blood shall be shed , And many for want of wit are misled : But after a while good news shall we hear , Come from the West to banish our fear , A Mutiny in Spaine is likely to be , And we in this Nation shall hardly agree . September . This month of September if things fallen out right , Holland and we shall give over to fight . By means of Ambassadors we are made friends . And Holland be willing to make us amends : The winds will grow high and may us affright , But there is no Enemy 'gainst us dare fight , Then be of good comfort and be not cast down , For we shall live quiet , though fortune may frown October . The 1 week of this month we shall hear good News , Our Merchant's return and nothing shall lose , From the Western parts with joy and content , After much toiling and labour is spent Our Land now shall flourish and Holland decline , And to see us prosper our Foes shall repine , If God be with us , who can us withstand , It is he alone that protecteth our Land. November . In this month of November good people shall strive Out of this Nation Tithes for to drive , Who squze the countryman out of his estate , Even by their tyranny of their decei Enough for to make all the people to rise , Against those that over them thus tyrannise . Who cannot be quiet until they be eased . And till that time come they will not be pleased , December . I would not have Merchant's now for to grieve , Their ships shall come home their minds to relieve For providence keeps them , then do not despair , This month of December good news you shall hear , And since it is now the last month in the Year , I would not have any possessed with fear , Let's pray unto God our comfort in chief , At the end of the year for to end all our grief . Printed for W. Gilbertson . 