The Second Part of the new Scotch-Jigg : OR , JENNY'S Reply , To JOHNNY'S Cravat . The Case is alter'd now ; Jenny Wooes Johnny To tie her Kirtle , and shee'l be his Honey ; Which Johnny took so kindly sitting by her , That for his heart , he could not well deny her , At length they did agree , to plain and pat , That he her Kirtle ty'd ; She his Cravat . Tune of , Jenny come tie my , etc AS Jenny sat under a Siccomore Tree She spi'd her love Johnny come over the Lee ; Oh welcome my Johnny ! now welcome my dear ! I prithee my honey , come fit thee down here . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . I prithee my Johnny , ne're doubt of my Love ; For I am constrained by Cupid above , To love thee as dear , as the blood in my heart ; Then do not thou fear , that we ever will part . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . O Johnny , my honey , thou know'st it is true How scornful thou was when I did thee first woe , And when I begg'd of thee to tie my Cravat ; You said , that I wanted a bit for my Cat. Johnny come tie my , Johnny came tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . My Johnny , I love thee as dear as my Life , And could be contented for to be thy Wife , Although I was fickle , and seem'd to be Coy : Yet now I'le be constant , my Love and my joy . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . BUt Jenny , if that I thy Kirtle should tie , Come well me my Honey , and tell me no lie ; If thou wilt be willing my Love to requite , Oh Johnny I'le please thee by day , and by night . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay , I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . I'le buy for my Love , a Cravat that is new , If thou wilt be constant , and ever be true ; And ty't with a Ribbond of Popinjay green , The like in the Parish there shall not be seen . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . But Johnny now tell me , if that I consent , Shall I never have any cause to repent ? To gain a bad Bargain , may make me to rue , Then prithee resolve to be faithful and true . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . As true as the Steel I'me resolved to be ; And all that I have , is my Johnny , for thee ; Thou kens , that my Portion I have for to take , And how I have kept it so long for thy sake . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . My Jenny , I joy for to see thee so kind To tell thee my love , it rejoices my mind ; Thy looks are so Bonny and blithe , for to see : Of all the brave Lasses , my Jenny for me . Johnny come tie me , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain . Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again ; Oh Johnny ! I sware by the Lace of my Gown , I love thee above the Lads in the Town : And for to gang with thee , what ever befall ; I'le leave both my Daddy , and Mammy , and all , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet now if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . My Jenny , I'me willing thy Kirtle to tie , Since thou art so loving , I cannot deny : And ever hereafter my own thou shalt be ; Then prithee my Honey , be loving to me . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; But since dost thou love me , I'le tie it again . Now Johnny , since I ken what you would be at , I likewise am willing to tie thy Crava And by this same Kiss , I will ever be true ; My Johnny shall never have cause for to rue . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; But now I will tie it again and again . London . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whoditwo . The Second Part of the new Scotch-Jigg : OR , JENNY'S Reply , To JOHNNY'S Cravat . The Case is alter'd now ; Jenny Wooes Johnny To tie her Kirtle , and shee'l be his Honey ; Which Johnny took so kindly sitting by her , That for his heart , he could not well deny her , At length they did agree , to plain and pat , That he her Kirtle ty'd ; She his Cravat . Tune of , Jenny come tie my , etc AS Jenny sat under a Siccomore Tree She spi'd her love Johnny come over the Lee ; Oh welcome my Johnny ! now welcome my dear ! I prithee my honey , come fit thee down here . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . I prithee my Johnny , ne're doubt of my Love ; For I am constrained by Cupid above , To love thee as dear , as the blood in my heart ; Then do not thou fear , that we ever will part . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . O Johnny , my honey , thou know'st it is true How scornful thou was when I did thee first woe , And when I begg'd of thee to tie my Cravat ; You said , that I wanted a bit for my Cat. Johnny come tie my , Johnny came tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . My Johnny , I love thee as dear as my Life , And could be contented for to be thy Wife , Although I was fickle , and seem'd to be Coy : Yet now I'le be constant , my Love and my joy . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . BUt Jenny , if that I thy Kirtle should tie , Come well me my Honey , and tell me no lie ; If thou wilt be willing my Love to requite , Oh Johnny I'le please thee by day , and by night . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay , I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . I'le buy for my Love , a Cravat that is new , If thou wilt be constant , and ever be true ; And ty't with a Ribbond of Popinjay green , The like in the Parish there shall not be seen . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . But Johnny now tell me , if that I consent , Shall I never have any cause to repent ? To gain a bad Bargain , may make me to rue , Then prithee resolve to be faithful and true . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . As true as the Steel I'me resolved to be ; And all that I have , is my Johnny , for thee ; Thou kens , that my Portion I have for to take , And how I have kept it so long for thy sake . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . My Jenny , I joy for to see thee so kind To tell thee my love , it rejoices my mind ; Thy looks are so Bonny and blithe , for to see : Of all the brave Lasses , my Jenny for me . Johnny come tie me , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain . Yet if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again ; Oh Johnny ! I sware by the Lace of my Gown , I love thee above the Lads in the Town : And for to gang with thee , what ever befall ; I'le leave both my Daddy , and Mammy , and all , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; Yet now if thou wilt love me , I'le tie it again . My Jenny , I'me willing thy Kirtle to tie , Since thou art so loving , I cannot deny : And ever hereafter my own thou shalt be ; Then prithee my Honey , be loving to me . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; But since dost thou love me , I'le tie it again . Now Johnny , since I ken what you would be at , I likewise am willing to tie thy Crava And by this same Kiss , I will ever be true ; My Johnny shall never have cause for to rue . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've ty'd it so often , and ty'd it in vain ; But now I will tie it again and again . London . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whoditwo . 