The Royal Victory , Obtained ( with the providence of Almighty God ) against the Dutch-Fleet , June the 2d . and 3d. 1665. a Fight as bloody ( for the time and number ) as ever was performed upon the Narrow-Seas , giving a particular account of Seventeen Men of War taken ; Fourteen Sunk and Fir'd . But forty that could escape of their whole Fleet , which at this time are hotly pursued by the Earl of Sandwich . Their Admiral Opdam slave by the Duke of Yorkes own Frigate Van Trump Sunk by Capt. Holmes . The number of their kill'd Men amounts to 10000. To the Tune of , Packingtons pound . LEt England , and Jreland , and Scotland rejoice , & render thanksgivings with heart & with voice That surley Fanatic that now will not sing , Is false to the Kingdom , and Foe to the King ; For he that will grutch , Our Fortune is such . does deal for the Devil , as well as the Dutch ; For why should my nature , or conscien [ ce ] repine At taking of his life , that fain would have mine So high a Victory we could not command , Had it not been gain'd by and Almighty hand , The great Lord of Battles did perfect this work For God & the King , and the good Duke of York , Whose Courage was such , Against the Low-Dutch , that vapour'd & swager'd , like Lords in a hutch , But let the bold Hollanders burn sink or swim , They have honour enough to be beaten by him . Fire , air , earth & water , it seems were imploy'd To strive for the Conquest , which we have injoy'd , No honour or profit , or safety can spring , To those that do fight against God & the King : The Battle was hight , And bloodily Fought , the Fire was like Rain , & like Hail was the Shot , For in this Engagement ten thousand did bleed Of Flemmings , who now are the Low-Dutch indeed . In this cruel Conflict stout Opdam was slave By the great Duke of York , & lies sunk in the Main It from the Dukes Frigate that he had his doom And by the Dukes valour he was overcome ; It was his good Fate , To fallen at that Rate , who sink under Princes , are buried in State . Since valour and courage in one grave must lie , It is a great honour , by great hands to die . The second part , to the same tune . THat gallant bold fellow , the Son of Vantrump whose brains were beatrice out by the head of the Rump Ingageing with Holmes , a brave Captain of ours Retreated to Neptunes salt watery bowers ; His Fate was grown grim , He no longer could swim , but he that caught Fish , now Fish catch him ; They eat up our Fish without Reason or Laws , But now they are going to pay for the Sauce . To mock at men's misery is not my aim , It never can add to and English-mans fame ; But I may rejoice that the Battle is won ; Because in the victory Gods will is done , Whose Justice appears In such great Affairs , who will for Amboina plague them & their Heirs For he that does cumber his conscience with gilded In shedding of blood , his own shall be spilled . In this cruel Contest ( our fortune was such ) We took seventeen Men of War from the Dutch . And likewise ( as then the occasion requir'd & as God would have it ) fourteen more were fir'd . At Amboina when They Tortur'd our Men . they look'd not to have the same paid them again With fire & with water their Sinews they cracked In fire and in water they dy'd for the Fact . According as our God of Battle commanded The best of their Vessels were Fir'd & Stranded , All ships , Men of War ; for what power hath man To fight with that Army , where God leads the Van They Steer , and they Stem , But 'twas so extreme , our men were near dying , with killing of them ; They lost ( when the muskets & cannon so thunder'd Twice so many thousand as we have lost hundr'd Twould make a brave Englishmans heart leap to feet But forty ships made and escape of their Fleet Which our men pursue with much courage & strength 'Tis doubtless but we shall surprise them at length , If God be our guide , And stand by our side , we shall be befrinded with fair Wind & Tide ; If Providence prosper us with a good Gale , The Dutch nor the Devil shall ever prevail . Prince Rupert like lightning flew thorrough their Fleet Like flame mixed with powder , their Army did meet Ten thousand slave bodies the Ocean overspread , That in few hours distance were living & dead , Their Admirals all , Save one there did fallen , and death had command like a chief General , Brave Smith in the Mary did shave out his way As Reapers do Wheat , or as Mowers do Hay . Stout Lawson , and Minn . there did both play their parts , who emptied their Guns in their Enemies hearts The burly fat Dutchmen being cut out in Slips , The Vessels did look more like Shambles then Ships . God prosper the Fleet , And send they may meet Du Ruites , to make up the Conquest complete . God bless all the Princes , and every thing That Fights for the Kingdom , & prays for the King . With Allowance . June the 9th . 1665. London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and R. Gilbertson . The Royal Victory , Obtained ( with the providence of Almighty God ) against the Dutch-Fleet , June the 2d . and 3d. 1665. a Fight as bloody ( for the time and number ) as ever was performed upon the Narrow-Seas , giving a particular account of Seventeen Men of War taken ; Fourteen Sunk and Fir'd . But forty that could escape of their whole Fleet , which at this time are hotly pursued by the Earl of Sandwich . Their Admiral Opdam slave by the Duke of Yorkes own Frigate Van Trump Sunk by Capt. Holmes . The number of their kill'd Men amounts to 10000. To the Tune of , Packingtons pound . LEt England , and Jreland , and Scotland rejoice , & render thanksgivings with heart & with voice That surley Fanatic that now will not sing , Is false to the Kingdom , and Foe to the King ; For he that will grutch , Our Fortune is such . does deal for the Devil , as well as the Dutch ; For why should my nature , or conscien [ ce ] repine At taking of his life , that fain would have mine So high a Victory we could not command , Had it not been gain'd by and Almighty hand , The great Lord of Battles did perfect this work For God & the King , and the good Duke of York , Whose Courage was such , Against the Low-Dutch , that vapour'd & swager'd , like Lords in a hutch , But let the bold Hollanders burn sink or swim , They have honour enough to be beaten by him . Fire , air , earth & water , it seems were imploy'd To strive for the Conquest , which we have injoy'd , No honour or profit , or safety can spring , To those that do fight against God & the King : The Battle was hight , And bloodily Fought , the Fire was like Rain , & like Hail was the Shot , For in this Engagement ten thousand did bleed Of Flemmings , who now are the Low-Dutch indeed . In this cruel Conflict stout Opdam was slave By the great Duke of York , & lies sunk in the Main It from the Dukes Frigate that he had his doom And by the Dukes valour he was overcome ; It was his good Fate , To fallen at that Rate , who sink under Princes , are buried in State . Since valour and courage in one grave must lie , It is a great honour , by great hands to die . The second part , to the same tune . THat gallant bold fellow , the Son of Vantrump whose brains were beatrice out by the head of the Rump Ingageing with Holmes , a brave Captain of ours Retreated to Neptunes salt watery bowers ; His Fate was grown grim , He no longer could swim , but he that caught Fish , now Fish catch him ; They eat up our Fish without Reason or Laws , But now they are going to pay for the Sauce . To mock at men's misery is not my aim , It never can add to and English-mans fame ; But I may rejoice that the Battle is won ; Because in the victory Gods will is done , Whose Justice appears In such great Affairs , who will for Amboina plague them & their Heirs For he that does cumber his conscience with gilded In shedding of blood , his own shall be spilled . In this cruel Contest ( our fortune was such ) We took seventeen Men of War from the Dutch . And likewise ( as then the occasion requir'd & as God would have it ) fourteen more were fir'd . At Amboina when They Tortur'd our Men . they look'd not to have the same paid them again With fire & with water their Sinews they cracked In fire and in water they dy'd for the Fact . According as our God of Battle commanded The best of their Vessels were Fir'd & Stranded , All ships , Men of War ; for what power hath man To fight with that Army , where God leads the Van They Steer , and they Stem , But 'twas so extreme , our men were near dying , with killing of them ; They lost ( when the muskets & cannon so thunder'd Twice so many thousand as we have lost hundr'd Twould make a brave Englishmans heart leap to feet But forty ships made and escape of their Fleet Which our men pursue with much courage & strength 'Tis doubtless but we shall surprise them at length , If God be our guide , And stand by our side , we shall be befrinded with fair Wind & Tide ; If Providence prosper us with a good Gale , The Dutch nor the Devil shall ever prevail . Prince Rupert like lightning flew thorrough their Fleet Like flame mixed with powder , their Army did meet Ten thousand slave bodies the Ocean overspread , That in few hours distance were living & dead , Their Admirals all , Save one there did fallen , and death had command like a chief General , Brave Smith in the Mary did shave out his way As Reapers do Wheat , or as Mowers do Hay . Stout Lawson , and Minn . there did both play their parts , who emptied their Guns in their Enemies hearts The burly fat Dutchmen being cut out in Slips , The Vessels did look more like Shambles then Ships . God prosper the Fleet , And send they may meet Du Ruites , to make up the Conquest complete . God bless all the Princes , and every thing That Fights for the Kingdom , & prays for the King . With Allowance . June the 9th . 1665. London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and R. Gilbertson . 