Ill-gotten Goods seldom thrive . Or , The English Antic . For Dick , that was a Miller by his Trade , Did think to be a swaggering roaring Blade , He bought brave Clothes , and powdered all his hair , But serv'd in's kind for meddling with light ware . The tune is , was ever Youngman crossed . A Lusty Country Lad , that lately came to Town , His pockets were so clad , with many a Silver Crown : A Miller by his Trade , his dwelling is at Bow , A place of much resort , as sundry people know : But Dick the Millers Son , that powdered all his hair , Alas , he is undone , by meddling with light ware . He bought a Perry-wig , a gallant Suit of Clothes , Which was bestrew'd with Musk , more sweeter then a Rose : A Cambrick Band and Cuffs , his Half-shirt out before , His Breeches had of Ribbons at least a dozen score : But Dick , etc A Beaver , and a Feather the Crown did overtop , With Ribbons round about , like a Haberdashers-shop : He bought a pair of Boots , with huge and mighty Toes , The size was twenty foure , which peeped up to his nose : But Dick , etc , A Rapier by his side , against his Spurs did clap , At last he met a Lass , that prov'd a cunning snap : His Cloak about his middle , most brave he wore the same , And walking in Moore-fields , he met a Venus Dame : But Dick , etc She rusled in her Silk , as she by him did pass , And after as I herd she serv'd him like and Ass : Good morrow sir , quoth she , which made young Dick amza'd , To see her painted face , his spirits soon were rays'd : But Dick , etc Fair Mistress then , said Dick , let's to the Tavern go , Yet like a Maiden chaste , at first she answered no : But Dick oppressed with lust , his spirits did so rise , That he did her request , and she no more denies : But Dick the Millers Son , that powdered all his hair , Alack , he is undone , by meddling with light ware . IMagine how their time in merriment was spent , With kisses sweet and fine , which Richard did content ; And with her apron strings young Dick began to play , Yet she with modest looks cry'd , pish , nay fie , away : But Dick the Millers Son , that powdered all his hair , Alas , he is undone , by meddling with light ware . So smoking of his Nose , and drinking store of Sack , Thinking to have his will but his wits began to crack : So civilly to bed this loving couple goes , She left him fast asleep , and stole away his Clothes . But Dick etc The Vintner he came up , his Reckoning for to have , But Dick not well awaked , did call him saucy Knave : But turning round about , and could not Clothes espy , Then Richard soon was forc'd Peccavi for to cry . But Dick etc The Vintner much in rage , did strike him over the face , That Richard at that time was in a stinking case ; And with his leg and feet he kicked him out of door , And bid him like a Rogue go to his pocky Whore . Thus Dick etc Thus naked home he went unto his Father's Mill , Where he was entertain'd , and does continue still : When Richard took his Tole , he three times more did take , To buy him other Clothes , which she sold for his sake . Thus Dick etc Ill got goods never thrive , take heed you pilferers all , Lest you like strutting Dick to such mischances fail : Then young men have a care of painted curled Locks , For such , though fair above , below may have the Pox. But Dick the Millers Son , that powdered all his hair , Alas , he is undone , by meddling with light ware . London , Printed for W. Gilbertson . Ill-gotten Goods seldom thrive . Or , The English Antic . For Dick , that was a Miller by his Trade , Did think to be a swaggering roaring Blade , He bought brave Clothes , and powdered all his hair , But serv'd in's kind for meddling with light ware . The tune is , was ever Youngman crossed . A Lusty Country Lad , that lately came to Town , His pockets were so clad , with many a Silver Crown : A Miller by his Trade , his dwelling is at Bow , A place of much resort , as sundry people know : But Dick the Millers Son , that powdered all his hair , Alas , he is undone , by meddling with light ware . He bought a Perry-wig , a gallant Suit of Clothes , Which was bestrew'd with Musk , more sweeter then a Rose : A Cambrick Band and Cuffs , his Half-shirt out before , His Breeches had of Ribbons at least a dozen score : But Dick , etc A Beaver , and a Feather the Crown did overtop , With Ribbons round about , like a Haberdashers-shop : He bought a pair of Boots , with huge and mighty Toes , The size was twenty foure , which peeped up to his nose : But Dick , etc , A Rapier by his side , against his Spurs did clap , At last he met a Lass , that prov'd a cunning snap : His Cloak about his middle , most brave he wore the same , And walking in Moore-fields , he met a Venus Dame : But Dick , etc She rusled in her Silk , as she by him did pass , And after as I herd she serv'd him like and Ass : Good morrow sir , quoth she , which made young Dick amza'd , To see her painted face , his spirits soon were rays'd : But Dick , etc Fair Mistress then , said Dick , let's to the Tavern go , Yet like a Maiden chaste , at first she answered no : But Dick oppressed with lust , his spirits did so rise , That he did her request , and she no more denies : But Dick the Millers Son , that powdered all his hair , Alack , he is undone , by meddling with light ware . IMagine how their time in merriment was spent , With kisses sweet and fine , which Richard did content ; And with her apron strings young Dick began to play , Yet she with modest looks cry'd , pish , nay fie , away : But Dick the Millers Son , that powdered all his hair , Alas , he is undone , by meddling with light ware . So smoking of his Nose , and drinking store of Sack , Thinking to have his will but his wits began to crack : So civilly to bed this loving couple goes , She left him fast asleep , and stole away his Clothes . But Dick etc The Vintner he came up , his Reckoning for to have , But Dick not well awaked , did call him saucy Knave : But turning round about , and could not Clothes espy , Then Richard soon was forc'd Peccavi for to cry . But Dick etc The Vintner much in rage , did strike him over the face , That Richard at that time was in a stinking case ; And with his leg and feet he kicked him out of door , And bid him like a Rogue go to his pocky Whore . Thus Dick etc Thus naked home he went unto his Father's Mill , Where he was entertain'd , and does continue still : When Richard took his Tole , he three times more did take , To buy him other Clothes , which she sold for his sake . Thus Dick etc Ill got goods never thrive , take heed you pilferers all , Lest you like strutting Dick to such mischances fail : Then young men have a care of painted curled Locks , For such , though fair above , below may have the Pox. But Dick the Millers Son , that powdered all his hair , Alas , he is undone , by meddling with light ware . London , Printed for W. Gilbertson . 