Content's a Treasure ; Or , The Jovial Loyalist . A most pleasant New play Song , greatly in Request , both at Court and THEATRE . Content's a Treasure , nothing more can be , 'Tis all that can make happy thee or me ; Content and Loyalty , and harmless Mirth , Are those that give to all our Joys a Birth : Wine is a charm , 'tis armour-proof and male , It quicks our Senses , when our Wits do fail ; Keeps us from Cold , and hushes all our Cares , And in the midst of Dangers stiffles fears . To a New Tune of , We are jovial Topers ; Or , There was a jovial Beggar . WE are Jovial Topers , that no man evil think , But study to be Merry , and drink off our Drink , And so Merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , And so Merry we will be . No Plots we e're invented , against the Church and State , But still we keep our Loyalty , and shun all rash debate , And so Merry , etc In scarcity and plenty , we always are content , We ne'r repine at Providence , but take what it has sent , And so Merry , etc When the weather's Rainy , or Cloudy , for to warm us , Each man turns off his glass or two which never yet could harm us , And so Merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , and so merry we will be . A Health or two we pass about , to those we're sure are Loyal , But those that otherways we find , we generously defy all , And so merry , etc We give to every man his endue , no Mortal can say other , We live like kind Companions , and still love one another , And so merry , etc Let the Worldlings sweat and moil for guilded Clay , we care not , 'Tis all but dross , we valve not , then spend it Boys , and spare not And so merry , etc Rich Nectar does inflame us , and makes our thoughts divine , All sorrows it does banish , there's nothing like brisk wine , And so merry , etc If we have our Mistress , she still does make us jolly , 'Tis Clarret or Canary , that makes us see men's folly , And so merry , etc The world it is and Ocean , wherein all men are Sailing , Then briskly drink about Boys , and let there be no failing , And so merry , etc Come fill us t'other Bumper , we see no cause to part yet , Wine is the only Jewel , that ever charm'd my heart yet , And so merry , etc Though fortune it does frown , we'l ne'r be melancholy , 'Tis vain to grieve for ought below , rash sororw's but a folly , And so merry , etc Come fill us t'other Bumper Boys , let it be just a Brimmer , And he that will not pledge it , a Whig is , or a Trimmer , And so merry , etc To Charles our King , his gracious Queen and to his Royal Brother , Come fill it up again Boys , here's to the Prince another , And so merry , etc We have the world at will boys , there's nothing we can lack , Since our Cups with Nectar flow , 'tis Nectar we call Sack , And so merry , etc There's none so happy live as we , on us delights do shower , We live from hate and envy free , more safe then those in power , And so merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , And so merry we will be . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London Bridge Content's a Treasure ; Or , The Jovial Loyalist . A most pleasant New play Song , greatly in Request , both at Court and THEATRE . Content's a Treasure , nothing more can be , 'Tis all that can make happy thee or me ; Content and Loyalty , and harmless Mirth , Are those that give to all our Joys a Birth : Wine is a charm , 'tis armour-proof and male , It quicks our Senses , when our Wits do fail ; Keeps us from Cold , and hushes all our Cares , And in the midst of Dangers stiffles fears . To a New Tune of , We are jovial Topers ; Or , There was a jovial Beggar . WE are Jovial Topers , that no man evil think , But study to be Merry , and drink off our Drink , And so Merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , And so Merry we will be . No Plots we e're invented , against the Church and State , But still we keep our Loyalty , and shun all rash debate , And so Merry , etc In scarcity and plenty , we always are content , We ne'r repine at Providence , but take what it has sent , And so Merry , etc When the weather's Rainy , or Cloudy , for to warm us , Each man turns off his glass or two which never yet could harm us , And so Merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , and so merry we will be . A Health or two we pass about , to those we're sure are Loyal , But those that otherways we find , we generously defy all , And so merry , etc We give to every man his endue , no Mortal can say other , We live like kind Companions , and still love one another , And so merry , etc Let the Worldlings sweat and moil for guilded Clay , we care not , 'Tis all but dross , we valve not , then spend it Boys , and spare not And so merry , etc Rich Nectar does inflame us , and makes our thoughts divine , All sorrows it does banish , there's nothing like brisk wine , And so merry , etc If we have our Mistress , she still does make us jolly , 'Tis Clarret or Canary , that makes us see men's folly , And so merry , etc The world it is and Ocean , wherein all men are Sailing , Then briskly drink about Boys , and let there be no failing , And so merry , etc Come fill us t'other Bumper , we see no cause to part yet , Wine is the only Jewel , that ever charm'd my heart yet , And so merry , etc Though fortune it does frown , we'l ne'r be melancholy , 'Tis vain to grieve for ought below , rash sororw's but a folly , And so merry , etc Come fill us t'other Bumper Boys , let it be just a Brimmer , And he that will not pledge it , a Whig is , or a Trimmer , And so merry , etc To Charles our King , his gracious Queen and to his Royal Brother , Come fill it up again Boys , here's to the Prince another , And so merry , etc We have the world at will boys , there's nothing we can lack , Since our Cups with Nectar flow , 'tis Nectar we call Sack , And so merry , etc There's none so happy live as we , on us delights do shower , We live from hate and envy free , more safe then those in power , And so merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , And so merry we will be . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London Bridge Content's a Treasure ; Or , The Jovial Loyalist . A most pleasant New play Song , greatly in Request , both at Court and THEATRE . Content's a Treasure , nothing more can be , 'Tis all that can make happy thee or me ; Content and Loyalty , and harmless Mirth , Are those that give to all our Joys a Birth : Wine is a charm , 'tis armour-proof and male , It quicks our Senses , when our Wits do fail ; Keeps us from Cold , and hushes all our Cares , And in the midst of Dangers stiffles fears . To a New Tune of , We are jovial Topers ; Or , There was a jovial Beggar . WE are Jovial Topers , that no man evil think , But study to be Merry , and drink off our Drink , And so Merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , And so Merry we will be . No Plots we e're invented , against the Church and State , But still we keep our Loyalty , and shun all rash debate , And so Merry , etc In scarcity and plenty , we always are content , We ne'r repine at Providence , but take what it has sent , And so Merry , etc When the weather's Rainy , or Cloudy , for to warm us , Each man turns off his glass or two which never yet could harm us , And so Merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , and so merry we will be . A Health or two we pass about , to those we're sure are Loyal , But those that otherways we find , we generously defy all , And so merry , etc We give to every man his endue , no Mortal can say other , We live like kind Companions , and still love one another , And so merry , etc Let the Worldlings sweat and moil for guilded Clay , we care not , 'Tis all but dross , we valve not , then spend it Boys , and spare not And so merry , etc Rich Nectar does inflame us , and makes our thoughts divine , All sorrows it does banish , there's nothing like brisk wine , And so merry , etc If we have our Mistress , she still does make us jolly , 'Tis Clarret or Canary , that makes us see men's folly , And so merry , etc The world it is and Ocean , wherein all men are Sailing , Then briskly drink about Boys , and let there be no failing , And so merry , etc Come fill us t'other Bumper , we see no cause to part yet , Wine is the only Jewel , that ever charm'd my heart yet , And so merry , etc Though fortune it does frown , we'l ne'r be melancholy , 'Tis vain to grieve for ought below , rash sororw's but a folly , And so merry , etc Come fill us t'other Bumper Boys , let it be just a Brimmer , And he that will not pledge it , a Whig is , or a Trimmer , And so merry , etc To Charles our King , his gracious Queen and to his Royal Brother , Come fill it up again Boys , here's to the Prince another , And so merry , etc We have the world at will boys , there's nothing we can lack , Since our Cups with Nectar flow , 'tis Nectar we call Sack , And so merry , etc There's none so happy live as we , on us delights do shower , We live from hate and envy free , more safe then those in power , And so merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , And so merry we will be . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London Bridge Content's a Treasure ; Or , The Jovial Loyalist . A most pleasant New play Song , greatly in Request , both at Court and THEATRE . Content's a Treasure , nothing more can be , 'Tis all that can make happy thee or me ; Content and Loyalty , and harmless Mirth , Are those that give to all our Joys a Birth : Wine is a charm , 'tis armour-proof and male , It quicks our Senses , when our Wits do fail ; Keeps us from Cold , and hushes all our Cares , And in the midst of Dangers stiffles fears . To a New Tune of , We are jovial Topers ; Or , There was a jovial Beggar . WE are Jovial Topers , that no man evil think , But study to be Merry , and drink off our Drink , And so Merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , And so Merry we will be . No Plots we e're invented , against the Church and State , But still we keep our Loyalty , and shun all rash debate , And so Merry , etc In scarcity and plenty , we always are content , We ne'r repine at Providence , but take what it has sent , And so Merry , etc When the weather's Rainy , or Cloudy , for to warm us , Each man turns off his glass or two which never yet could harm us , And so Merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , and so merry we will be . A Health or two we pass about , to those we're sure are Loyal , But those that otherways we find , we generously defy all , And so merry , etc We give to every man his endue , no Mortal can say other , We live like kind Companions , and still love one another , And so merry , etc Let the Worldlings sweat and moil for guilded Clay , we care not , 'Tis all but dross , we valve not , then spend it Boys , and spare not And so merry , etc Rich Nectar does inflame us , and makes our thoughts divine , All sorrows it does banish , there's nothing like brisk wine , And so merry , etc If we have our Mistress , she still does make us jolly , 'Tis Clarret or Canary , that makes us see men's folly , And so merry , etc The world it is and Ocean , wherein all men are Sailing , Then briskly drink about Boys , and let there be no failing , And so merry , etc Come fill us t'other Bumper , we see no cause to part yet , Wine is the only Jewel , that ever charm'd my heart yet , And so merry , etc Though fortune it does frown , we'l ne'r be melancholy , 'Tis vain to grieve for ought below , rash sororw's but a folly , And so merry , etc Come fill us t'other Bumper Boys , let it be just a Brimmer , And he that will not pledge it , a Whig is , or a Trimmer , And so merry , etc To Charles our King , his gracious Queen and to his Royal Brother , Come fill it up again Boys , here's to the Prince another , And so merry , etc We have the world at will boys , there's nothing we can lack , Since our Cups with Nectar flow , 'tis Nectar we call Sack , And so merry , etc There's none so happy live as we , on us delights do shower , We live from hate and envy free , more safe then those in power , And so merry we will be , Will be , will be , will be , And so merry we will be . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London Bridge 