The Sinners Redemption . Wherein is described the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ . Together with his Life on the Earth , and precious Death on the Cross for Mankind Tune of , The bleeding heart . ALL you that are to mirth inclined , Consider well and bear in mind , What our good God for us hath done , In sending his beloved Son. Let all your Songs and praises be , Unto his heavenly Majesty , And evermore among your Mirth , Remember Christ our Saviours birth . The five and twentieth of December , Good cause have we for to remember , In Bethelem upon this morn , There was our blessed Messias born . The night before that happy tide , The spotless Virgin and her guide , Were long time seeking up and down , To find them Lodging in the town . And mark how all things came to pass , The Inns and Lodgings so filled was , That they could have no room at all , But in a silly Oxes Stall . This night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe deliver'd of a Child , According unto Heavens decree , men sweet Salvation for to be . Near Bethelem did Shepherd's keep , Their Herds and Flocks of feeding Sheep , To whom Gods Angels did appear , Which put the Shepherd's in great fear . Prepare and go the Angel said ; To Bethelem , be not afraid , There shall you find this blessed Morn , The Princely Babe sweet Jesus born . WIth thankful hearts and joyful mind , The shepherd's went this babe to find , And as the Heavenly Angel told , They did our Saviour Christ behold . Within a Manger was he laid , The Virgin Marry by him stay'd , Attending on the Lord of Life . Being both Mother , Maid , and Wife . Three Eastern Wisemen from afar , Directed by a glorious Star , Came boldly on and made no stay , Until they came where Jesus lay . And being come unto the place , Whereas the blessed Messias was , They humbly laid before his feet , Their gifts of Gold and Odour sweet . See how the Lord of Heaven and earth , Shew'd himself lowly in his birth , A sweet Example of Mankind , To learn to bear and humble mind . No costly Robes nor rich attire , Did Jesus Christ our Lord desire , No Music nor sweet harmony , Till Glorious Angels from on high Did in Melodious manner sing , Praises unto our Heavenly King , All Glory , Honour , Might and Power , Be unto Christ our Saviour . If Quires of Angels did rejoice , Well may Mankind with heart and voice , Sing praises to the God of Heaven , That unto us his Son hath given . Moreover let us every one , Call unto mind and think upon , His righteous Life and how he dy'd , To have poor Sinners justified . Suppose Oh Man , if thou shouldst lie , In Prison strong condemn'd to die , And that no friend upon the Earth , Could Ransom thee from cruel Death . Except you can some party find , That for thy sake will be so kind , His own hearts blood for to dispense , And lose his life in thy defence , Such was the love of Christ when we Were lost to Hell perpetually , To save them from the Gulf of woe , Himself much pain did undergo . While in this World he did remain , He never spent one hour in vain , In Fasting and in Prayer Divine , He daily spent away the time , He in the Temple daily taught , And many wonders strange he wrought , He gave the blind their perfect sighed , And made the Lame to walk upright . He cur'd the Lepers of their Evils , And by his power he cast out Devils , He raised Lazarus from the Grave , And to the sick their Health he gave . But yet for all these wondors wrought , The Jews his dire destruction sought , The traitor Judas was the Man , That with a kiss betrayed him than . Then was he led to Justice-Hall Like one despis'd almost them all , And had the sentence given that he Should suffer Death upon a tree , Unto the Execution place , They brought him on with much disgrace . With vile reproachful taunts and scorns , They Crown'd him with a wreathe of thorns . Then to the Cross through hands and feet , They nail'd our blessed redeemer sweet . And further to augment his smart , With bloody Spear they pierc'd his heart . Thus have you seen and herd aright , The love of Christ the Lord of Life , And how he shed his precious blood , , Only to do us sinners good . Printed for G. Conyers , in Little-Brittain . The Sinners Redemption . Wherein is described the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ . Together with his Life on the Earth , and precious Death on the Cross for Mankind Tune of , The bleeding heart . ALL you that are to mirth inclined , Consider well and bear in mind , What our good God for us hath done , In sending his beloved Son. Let all your Songs and praises be , Unto his heavenly Majesty , And evermore among your Mirth , Remember Christ our Saviours birth . The five and twentieth of December , Good cause have we for to remember , In Bethelem upon this morn , There was our blessed Messias born . The night before that happy tide , The spotless Virgin and her guide , Were long time seeking up and down , To find them Lodging in the town . And mark how all things came to pass , The Inns and Lodgings so filled was , That they could have no room at all , But in a silly Oxes Stall . This night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe deliver'd of a Child , According unto Heavens decree , men sweet Salvation for to be . Near Bethelem did Shepherd's keep , Their Herds and Flocks of feeding Sheep , To whom Gods Angels did appear , Which put the Shepherd's in great fear . Prepare and go the Angel said ; To Bethelem , be not afraid , There shall you find this blessed Morn , The Princely Babe sweet Jesus born . WIth thankful hearts and joyful mind , The shepherd's went this babe to find , And as the Heavenly Angel told , They did our Saviour Christ behold . Within a Manger was he laid , The Virgin Marry by him stay'd , Attending on the Lord of Life . Being both Mother , Maid , and Wife . Three Eastern Wisemen from afar , Directed by a glorious Star , Came boldly on and made no stay , Until they came where Jesus lay . And being come unto the place , Whereas the blessed Messias was , They humbly laid before his feet , Their gifts of Gold and Odour sweet . See how the Lord of Heaven and earth , Shew'd himself lowly in his birth , A sweet Example of Mankind , To learn to bear and humble mind . No costly Robes nor rich attire , Did Jesus Christ our Lord desire , No Music nor sweet harmony , Till Glorious Angels from on high Did in Melodious manner sing , Praises unto our Heavenly King , All Glory , Honour , Might and Power , Be unto Christ our Saviour . If Quires of Angels did rejoice , Well may Mankind with heart and voice , Sing praises to the God of Heaven , That unto us his Son hath given . Moreover let us every one , Call unto mind and think upon , His righteous Life and how he dy'd , To have poor Sinners justified . Suppose Oh Man , if thou shouldst lie , In Prison strong condemn'd to die , And that no friend upon the Earth , Could Ransom thee from cruel Death . Except you can some party find , That for thy sake will be so kind , His own hearts blood for to dispense , And lose his life in thy defence , Such was the love of Christ when we Were lost to Hell perpetually , To save them from the Gulf of woe , Himself much pain did undergo . While in this World he did remain , He never spent one hour in vain , In Fasting and in Prayer Divine , He daily spent away the time , He in the Temple daily taught , And many wonders strange he wrought , He gave the blind their perfect sighed , And made the Lame to walk upright . He cur'd the Lepers of their Evils , And by his power he cast out Devils , He raised Lazarus from the Grave , And to the sick their Health he gave . But yet for all these wondors wrought , The Jews his dire destruction sought , The traitor Judas was the Man , That with a kiss betrayed him than . Then was he led to Justice-Hall Like one despis'd almost them all , And had the sentence given that he Should suffer Death upon a tree , Unto the Execution place , They brought him on with much disgrace . With vile reproachful taunts and scorns , They Crown'd him with a wreathe of thorns . Then to the Cross through hands and feet , They nail'd our blessed redeemer sweet . And further to augment his smart , With bloody Spear they pierc'd his heart . Thus have you seen and herd aright , The love of Christ the Lord of Life , And how he shed his precious blood , , Only to do us sinners good . Printed for G. Conyers , in Little-Brittain . 