The Merry men Resolution : OR , His last farewell to his former acquaintance , Declaring how he rambled up and down Through all the Suburbs of fair London Town Where pretty wenches he did plenty find But some of them agreed not with his mind , Till at the last by chance he found out one , Which pleas'd him best , so left the rest alone To her he then clinged close as I herd tell , Made her his mate and bid the rest farewell . To a gallant new Tune , called the Highlanders new Rant . NOw farewell to Saint Gileses , that stands in the fields And farewell to Turnbulstreet , for that no comfort yields Farewell unto the Greyhound , and farewell to the Bell And farewell to my landlady whom I do love so well , With a come Love , Stay Love , go not from me , For all the world isle forsake for thee . Farewell to Long-Acre that stands near to the Mews And farewell to Drury-Lane , where pretty wenches use And farewell unto Sodom , and all her painted Drabs And farewell unto Bloomsbury , and all their vapouring scabs And come Love , Stay Love , go not from me , For all the world isle forsake for thee . Farewell to Cross-lane where lives some babes of graces Farewell to Common-garden and all her wanton places , Farewell unto West-minster , and farewell to the Strand Where I had choice of Mopseis even at my own command Sing come Love , Stay Love , go along with me , For all the world isle forsake for thee . Farewell to the Bankside farewell to Blackmans-street Where with my bouncing lasses , I oftentimes did meet , Farewell to Kent-street Garrison farewell to Horsy-down And all the smirking wenches that dwells in Redrif Town And come Love , Stay Love , go along with me For all the world isle forsake for thee . The second part to the same Tune . NOw farewell unto Wapping and farewell to Black-wall Farewell to Ratclife Highway , Rosemary-lane and all , And farewell unto Shoreditch and More-fields eke also , Where Mobs to pick up Cullies , a night walking do go , Then come Love , Stay Love go along with me For all the world isle forsake for thee . In White-crosse-street and Golden-lane do straping lasses dwell And so there do in every street betwixt that and Clarken-well At Cow-crose and Smith-field I have much pleasure found Where wenches like to Fairies , did often trace the round , Yet come Love , Stay Love go not from me For all those girls isle forsake for thee Yet something more isle speak off . which seems to many strange There's store of pretty wenches , lives near to the Exchange And many more there are sure that dwells in Cheap-side And other streets in London which are both broad and wide , Yet come Love Stay Love go not from me For all those girls isle forsake for thee To all the Country Mopseis , where ever they do dwell In this my last conclusion I likewise bid farewell Though they were used in former time to come when I did call I take thee for the boldest , and best among them all Then come Love , Stay Love go not from me For all the world isle forsake for thee . At Bristol and at Glocester I had of Loves great store , But now I find enough of thee I will desire no more , And what I have said to thee thou shalt find true and right I'll do thee trusty service at morning and at night Then come Love Stay Love , go not from me . For all the world isle forsake for thee . Farewell unto black patches , and farewell powdered locks And farewell Luthners Ladies for they have god the pox , Farewell the Cherry-garden for evermore adue And farewell to Spur-Alley and all that wanton crew And come Love Stay Love go not from me For all those girls isle forsake for thee London Printed for Francis Grove on Snow Hill. FINIS . L.P. The Merry men Resolution : OR , His last farewell to his former acquaintance , Declaring how he rambled up and down Through all the Suburbs of fair London Town Where pretty wenches he did plenty find But some of them agreed not with his mind , Till at the last by chance he found out one , Which pleas'd him best , so left the rest alone To her he then clinged close as I herd tell , Made her his mate and bid the rest farewell . To a gallant new Tune , called the Highlanders new Rant . NOw farewell to Saint Gileses , that stands in the fields And farewell to Turnbulstreet , for that no comfort yields Farewell unto the Greyhound , and farewell to the Bell And farewell to my landlady whom I do love so well , With a come Love , Stay Love , go not from me , For all the world isle forsake for thee . Farewell to Long-Acre that stands near to the Mews And farewell to Drury-Lane , where pretty wenches use And farewell unto Sodom , and all her painted Drabs And farewell unto Bloomsbury , and all their vapouring scabs And come Love , Stay Love , go not from me , For all the world isle forsake for thee . Farewell to Cross-lane where lives some babes of graces Farewell to Common-garden and all her wanton places , Farewell unto West-minster , and farewell to the Strand Where I had choice of Mopseis even at my own command Sing come Love , Stay Love , go along with me , For all the world isle forsake for thee . Farewell to the Bankside farewell to Blackmans-street Where with my bouncing lasses , I oftentimes did meet , Farewell to Kent-street Garrison farewell to Horsy-down And all the smirking wenches that dwells in Redrif Town And come Love , Stay Love , go along with me For all the world isle forsake for thee . The second part to the same Tune . NOw farewell unto Wapping and farewell to Black-wall Farewell to Ratclife Highway , Rosemary-lane and all , And farewell unto Shoreditch and More-fields eke also , Where Mobs to pick up Cullies , a night walking do go , Then come Love , Stay Love go along with me For all the world isle forsake for thee . In White-crosse-street and Golden-lane do straping lasses dwell And so there do in every street betwixt that and Clarken-well At Cow-crose and Smith-field I have much pleasure found Where wenches like to Fairies , did often trace the round , Yet come Love , Stay Love go not from me For all those girls isle forsake for thee Yet something more isle speak off . which seems to many strange There's store of pretty wenches , lives near to the Exchange And many more there are sure that dwells in Cheap-side And other streets in London which are both broad and wide , Yet come Love Stay Love go not from me For all those girls isle forsake for thee To all the Country Mopseis , where ever they do dwell In this my last conclusion I likewise bid farewell Though they were used in former time to come when I did call I take thee for the boldest , and best among them all Then come Love , Stay Love go not from me For all the world isle forsake for thee . At Bristol and at Glocester I had of Loves great store , But now I find enough of thee I will desire no more , And what I have said to thee thou shalt find true and right I'll do thee trusty service at morning and at night Then come Love Stay Love , go not from me . For all the world isle forsake for thee . Farewell unto black patches , and farewell powdered locks And farewell Luthners Ladies for they have god the pox , Farewell the Cherry-garden for evermore adue And farewell to Spur-Alley and all that wanton crew And come Love Stay Love go not from me For all those girls isle forsake for thee London Printed for Francis Grove on Snow Hill. FINIS . L.P. 