Strange and true News from Westmoreland . Being a true Relation of one Gabriel Harding , who coming home drunk , struck his Wife a blow on the breast , and killed her outright , and then denied the same : Likewise how a Stranger did come to the House clothed in green , the people that were eye witnesses said it was and Angel ; and how the Stranger or Angel did give Sentence on the man for kill - ling of his Wife : Also how Satan did break the men neck that did forswear himself , and the Stranger or Angel did command Satan to hurt none else , and to vanish ; Then did the Stranger clothed in green take his leave of the people ; whereof he chiefest in the Parish desired it might be put into Print , and have hereunto set their hands . Tune is , In Summer time . ATtend good Christian people all , Mark what I say both old and young Unto the General Judgement day I think it is not very long . A wonder strange I shall relate , I think the like was never shown , In Westmoreland in Tredenton Of such a thing was never known , One Gabriel Harding liv'd of late , As may to all men just appear , Whose yearly Rend by just account Came to five hundred pound a year . This man he had a Virtuous Wife , In Godly ways her mind did give : Yet he as rude a wicked wretch As in this sinful Land did live . Much news of him I will relate , The like no mortal man did hear : 'Tis very new , and also true , Therefore good Christians all give ear . One time this man he came home drunk As he us'd , which made his wife to weep , Who straightway took him by the hand , Saying , Dear Husband lie down & sleep . She lovingly took him by the arms , Thinking in safety him to guide , A blow he struck her on the breast , The woman straight sunk down and dy'd . The Children with mournful cries They run into the open street , They wept , they wail'd , they wrung their hands To all good Christians they did meet . The people then they all ran forth , Saying , Children why make you such moan Oh make you haste unto our house Our dear mother is dead and gone . Our Father hath our Mother kill'd , The Children they cried then . The people then they all made haste , And laid their hands upon the man . He presently denied the same , Said from guilty Murder I am free , If I did that wicked deed he said , Some example I wish be seen by me . Thus he forswore the wicked deed , Of his dear wives untimely end , Quoth the people let's conclude with speed , That for the Coroner we may send . Mark what I say , the doors fast shut , The people the Children did deplore , But straight they herd a man to speak , And one stood knocking at the door . One in the house to the door made haste , Hearing a man to knock and call , The door was opened presently , And in he came among them all . By your leave good people then he said , May a stranger with you have some talk , A dead woman I am come to see , Into the Room I pray Sir walk . His eyes like to the Stars did shine , He was clothed in a bright Grass green , His cheeks was of a Crimson read , For such a man was seldom seen . Unto the people then he spoke , Mark well these words which I shall say , For no Coroner you shall send , I'm Judge and Jury here this day . Brng hither the man that did the deed And firmly hath denied the same They brought him into the room with speed To answer to this deed with shame . Now come Oh wretched man quoth he , With shame before thy Neighbours all , Thy body thou hast brought to misery Thy soul into a deeper thrall . Thy chiefest delight was drunkenness And lewd women , Oh cursed since . Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile A long time thou hast wallowed in . Thy Neighbours thou wouldst set at strife And alvum [ ay ] s gripping of the poor : Beside thou hast murdered thy wife A fearful death thou dy'st therefore , Fear nothing good people , then he said A sighed presently will appear , Let all your trust be in the Lord No harm shall be while I am here . Then in the Room the Devil appear'd Like a brave Gentleman did stand ; Satan ( quoth he that was the Judge ) Do no more than thou hast command . The Devil then he straight laid hold On him that had murdered his Wife , His neck in sunder then he broke , And thus did end his wretched life , The Devil then he vanished Quite from the people in the Hall , Which made the people much afraid , Yet not one had not hurt at all . Then straight a pleasant Melody Of Music straight was herd to found , It ravished the hearts of those stood by , So sweet the Music did abound . Now ( quoth this gallant man in green ) With you I can no longer stay , My love I leave , my leave I take , The time is come , I must away . Be sure to love each other well , Keep in your breast what I do say , It is the way to go to Heaven When you shall rise at Judgement day . The people to their homes did go , Which had this mighty wonder seen , And said it was and Angel sure That thus was clothed all in green . And thus the News from Westmoreland I have related to you o're ; I think it is as strange a thing As ever man did hear before . Here are the Names of some of the chiefest men that live in the Parish : Christo - pher Rawly , Esq ; James Fish , Gent. William Lisse , Gent. Simon Pierce , Ambrose White , Oliver Craft , Robert Board , Thomas Clifford , Yeomen ; George Crawly , Peter Vaux , Philip Cook , Francis Martin , George Hor [ tO ] on , Husbandmen . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . Strange and true News from Westmoreland . Being a true Relation of one Gabriel Harding , who coming home drunk , struck his Wife a blow on the breast , and killed her outright , and then denied the same : Likewise how a Stranger did come to the House clothed in green , the people that were eye witnesses said it was and Angel ; and how the Stranger or Angel did give Sentence on the man for kill - ling of his Wife : Also how Satan did break the men neck that did forswear himself , and the Stranger or Angel did command Satan to hurt none else , and to vanish ; Then did the Stranger clothed in green take his leave of the people ; whereof he chiefest in the Parish desired it might be put into Print , and have hereunto set their hands . Tune is , In Summer time . ATtend good Christian people all , Mark what I say both old and young Unto the General Judgement day I think it is not very long . A wonder strange I shall relate , I think the like was never shown , In Westmoreland in Tredenton Of such a thing was never known , One Gabriel Harding liv'd of late , As may to all men just appear , Whose yearly Rend by just account Came to five hundred pound a year . This man he had a Virtuous Wife , In Godly ways her mind did give : Yet he as rude a wicked wretch As in this sinful Land did live . Much news of him I will relate , The like no mortal man did hear : 'Tis very new , and also true , Therefore good Christians all give ear . One time this man he came home drunk As he us'd , which made his wife to weep , Who straightway took him by the hand , Saying , Dear Husband lie down & sleep . She lovingly took him by the arms , Thinking in safety him to guide , A blow he struck her on the breast , The woman straight sunk down and dy'd . The Children with mournful cries They run into the open street , They wept , they wail'd , they wrung their hands To all good Christians they did meet . The people then they all ran forth , Saying , Children why make you such moan Oh make you haste unto our house Our dear mother is dead and gone . Our Father hath our Mother kill'd , The Children they cried then . The people then they all made haste , And laid their hands upon the man . He presently denied the same , Said from guilty Murder I am free , If I did that wicked deed he said , Some example I wish be seen by me . Thus he forswore the wicked deed , Of his dear wives untimely end , Quoth the people let's conclude with speed , That for the Coroner we may send . Mark what I say , the doors fast shut , The people the Children did deplore , But straight they herd a man to speak , And one stood knocking at the door . One in the house to the door made haste , Hearing a man to knock and call , The door was opened presently , And in he came among them all . By your leave good people then he said , May a stranger with you have some talk , A dead woman I am come to see , Into the Room I pray Sir walk . His eyes like to the Stars did shine , He was clothed in a bright Grass green , His cheeks was of a Crimson read , For such a man was seldom seen . Unto the people then he spoke , Mark well these words which I shall say , For no Coroner you shall send , I'm Judge and Jury here this day . Brng hither the man that did the deed And firmly hath denied the same They brought him into the room with speed To answer to this deed with shame . Now come Oh wretched man quoth he , With shame before thy Neighbours all , Thy body thou hast brought to misery Thy soul into a deeper thrall . Thy chiefest delight was drunkenness And lewd women , Oh cursed since . Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile A long time thou hast wallowed in . Thy Neighbours thou wouldst set at strife And alvum [ ay ] s gripping of the poor : Beside thou hast murdered thy wife A fearful death thou dy'st therefore , Fear nothing good people , then he said A sighed presently will appear , Let all your trust be in the Lord No harm shall be while I am here . Then in the Room the Devil appear'd Like a brave Gentleman did stand ; Satan ( quoth he that was the Judge ) Do no more than thou hast command . The Devil then he straight laid hold On him that had murdered his Wife , His neck in sunder then he broke , And thus did end his wretched life , The Devil then he vanished Quite from the people in the Hall , Which made the people much afraid , Yet not one had not hurt at all . Then straight a pleasant Melody Of Music straight was herd to found , It ravished the hearts of those stood by , So sweet the Music did abound . Now ( quoth this gallant man in green ) With you I can no longer stay , My love I leave , my leave I take , The time is come , I must away . Be sure to love each other well , Keep in your breast what I do say , It is the way to go to Heaven When you shall rise at Judgement day . The people to their homes did go , Which had this mighty wonder seen , And said it was and Angel sure That thus was clothed all in green . And thus the News from Westmoreland I have related to you o're ; I think it is as strange a thing As ever man did hear before . Here are the Names of some of the chiefest men that live in the Parish : Christo - pher Rawly , Esq ; James Fish , Gent. William Lisse , Gent. Simon Pierce , Ambrose White , Oliver Craft , Robert Board , Thomas Clifford , Yeomen ; George Crawly , Peter Vaux , Philip Cook , Francis Martin , George Hor [ tO ] on , Husbandmen . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . 