Loves Lamentable TRAGEDY , When cruel Lovers prove unkind , Great sorrows they procure ; And such strange pains the slighted find , That they cannot endure . To a pleasant new Playhouse Tune . TEnder hearts of London City , Now be mov'd with grief and pity since by love I am undone : Now I languish in mine angish , too too soon my heart was wone . By him I am strangely slighted , In whom I so long Delighted : he unkindly shows disdain , And my grief is past relief , alas ! my heart will break with pain . Daemon you my passion knew well , How then could you be so cruel ? first my heart to set on fire : Then to leave me , and deceive me , when I granted your desire . Come and see me as I'm lying , Bleeding for your sake , and dying , yet my Ghost shall trouble you , When I depart with broken heart , then all your Comforts bid adieu . Thou shalt never be contented , But by night and day tormented , since thou wertenberg so false to me : Celia dying , thus lay crying , I will be a plague to thee . Down her Cheeks the tears did trickle , Blaming Daemon too too fickle , till her tender heart was broke : Discontented thus she fainted , yielding to Death's fatal stroke . When this News to him was carried , All his joys were spoill'd and marred , and his heart was fill'd with pain : Still expressing what a blessing , he had lost by his disdain . The young men Answer . O ! you powers be kind unto me , Else my sorrows will undo me , I am so perplexed in mind : I deny'd her , and defy'd her , that was loving , chaste and kind . Now me thinks I'm strangely daunted By her Ghost I shall be haunted , wheresoever I do go , I shall see her mine own dear , since I wrought her overthrow . Thus he pausing stood , and thinking , Looking as if he were sinking , while his countenance grew pale : Death come ease me , quickly seize me , for me thinks my Spirits fail . In his Conscience he was wounded , And his Senses were confounded , tears ran trickling from his Eye : But his sorrow , pierc'd him thorough , then he vow'd for love to die . Then his joints began to shiver , Straight he walks into the River , their to built his watery Tomb , Often crying , and replying , Celia now I come , I come . FINIS . Loves Lamentable TRAGEDY , When cruel Lovers prove unkind , Great sorrows they procure ; And such strange pains the slighted find , That they cannot endure . To a pleasant new Playhouse Tune . TEnder hearts of London City , Now be mov'd with grief and pity since by love I am undone : Now I languish in mine angish , too too soon my heart was wone . By him I am strangely slighted , In whom I so long Delighted : he unkindly shows disdain , And my grief is past relief , alas ! my heart will break with pain . Daemon you my passion knew well , How then could you be so cruel ? first my heart to set on fire : Then to leave me , and deceive me , when I granted your desire . Come and see me as I'm lying , Bleeding for your sake , and dying , yet my Ghost shall trouble you , When I depart with broken heart , then all your Comforts bid adieu . Thou shalt never be contented , But by night and day tormented , since thou wertenberg so false to me : Celia dying , thus lay crying , I will be a plague to thee . Down her Cheeks the tears did trickle , Blaming Daemon too too fickle , till her tender heart was broke : Discontented thus she fainted , yielding to Death's fatal stroke . When this News to him was carried , All his joys were spoill'd and marred , and his heart was fill'd with pain : Still expressing what a blessing , he had lost by his disdain . The young men Answer . O ! you powers be kind unto me , Else my sorrows will undo me , I am so perplexed in mind : I deny'd her , and defy'd her , that was loving , chaste and kind . Now me thinks I'm strangely daunted By her Ghost I shall be haunted , wheresoever I do go , I shall see her mine own dear , since I wrought her overthrow . Thus he pausing stood , and thinking , Looking as if he were sinking , while his countenance grew pale : Death come ease me , quickly seize me , for me thinks my Spirits fail . In his Conscience he was wounded , And his Senses were confounded , tears ran trickling from his Eye : But his sorrow , pierc'd him thorough , then he vow'd for love to die . Then his joints began to shiver , Straight he walks into the River , their to built his watery Tomb , Often crying , and replying , Celia now I come , I come . FINIS . 