The St. Giles's Broker . Showing how he was cheated in buying a Green Goose , with and Account of several sorrowful Circumstances which follow'd thereupon . To the Tune of , Ladies of London . Licensed according to Order . THere was a wealthy old Broker of late , Whose Wife was and absolute Beauty , But he so often did kiss his Maid Kate , he seldom did Family Duty , E'ery night she might tumble and toss , she'd nothing but Dreams to inflame her , So at the length she was desperate cross , but tell me what Christian could blame her . But as it fell out upon his Birthday , some two or three Friends he invited , There to take part of a Green Goose they say , but yet that civil Wife whom he slighted , She to the Market then would not go , he must trudge himself if he'd feast her , Yet a good Green Goose this Spark did not know , so well as his Dog knew a Tester . Yet he declar'd that he well understood , a Goose when he came to the Woman , For when she show'd him one both white and good , he swore he'd be cheated by no man , Saying to her , Dame what do you mean , I would not have this if you'd give't me , I'll have a Goose that is delicate Green , a wiser than you cannot cheat me , Now when she see his right ignorant skill , and being resolved to please him , She pull'd out one that was at Turners Hill , this into his hand straight she giv's him , A Green Goose there is not in Town , it being one of mine own killing , The First I show'd you was but half a Crown , for this I must have full Three Shilling , Tell me why did you not show this at first , which seems to be greenish all over , With that he straightway did down with his Dust , said he , of Green Geese I'm a Lover , Home to his house he strutted in state , and there of his Bargain he boasted , Then gave it into the hands of young Kate , and said it must streightways be roasted . But it sent forth a strong dainty Perfume , when being a while at the fire , Kate call'd her Master straight into the Room , and said Sir , I strange and admire , You should buy this , 'tis not worth a souse , no one would be able to eat it , Nay , it will stink us all out of the house , I vow and protest you are cheated . Prithee said he let another be bought , and go thy self Kate I entreat thee , And cast this same in some secret Vault , and likewise take care they don't cheat thee , Honest poor Kate the innocent Maid , she did as her Master adviz'd her , And as the Goose down the Vault she convey' some two or three Women surpriz'd her . Then to a Justice they haul'd her with speed , concluding some child she did smother , That she might suffer for that wicked Deed , and call'd her a Murderous Mother , Yet she declar'd it was but a Goose , but Justice nor none would believe her , Telling her , that was and idle Excuse , to Gaol she was sent , which did grieve her . For her returning he waiting did stand , And seem'd to be highly offended , At length a Letter came to his Wives hand , which show'd the Maid was apprehended , Reading the same , she to him did run , with railing his Ears she surrounded , See what your impudent Gillian has done , and innocent Brat she has drounded . Then to the Justice he trott'd amain , and told him a sorrowful Ditty , When the whole storoy he then had made plain , his case he did presently pity , Kate was releas'd then home they did go , her Master did lovingly hand her , Now ever since those that do him well know , they call him the Cunnig Old Gander . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The St. Giles's Broker . Showing how he was cheated in buying a Green Goose , with and Account of several sorrowful Circumstances which follow'd thereupon . To the Tune of , Ladies of London . Licensed according to Order . THere was a wealthy old Broker of late , Whose Wife was and absolute Beauty , But he so often did kiss his Maid Kate , he seldom did Family Duty , E'ery night she might tumble and toss , she'd nothing but Dreams to inflame her , So at the length she was desperate cross , but tell me what Christian could blame her . But as it fell out upon his Birthday , some two or three Friends he invited , There to take part of a Green Goose they say , but yet that civil Wife whom he slighted , She to the Market then would not go , he must trudge himself if he'd feast her , Yet a good Green Goose this Spark did not know , so well as his Dog knew a Tester . Yet he declar'd that he well understood , a Goose when he came to the Woman , For when she show'd him one both white and good , he swore he'd be cheated by no man , Saying to her , Dame what do you mean , I would not have this if you'd give't me , I'll have a Goose that is delicate Green , a wiser than you cannot cheat me , Now when she see his right ignorant skill , and being resolved to please him , She pull'd out one that was at Turners Hill , this into his hand straight she giv's him , A Green Goose there is not in Town , it being one of mine own killing , The First I show'd you was but half a Crown , for this I must have full Three Shilling , Tell me why did you not show this at first , which seems to be greenish all over , With that he straightway did down with his Dust , said he , of Green Geese I'm a Lover , Home to his house he strutted in state , and there of his Bargain he boasted , Then gave it into the hands of young Kate , and said it must streightways be roasted . But it sent forth a strong dainty Perfume , when being a while at the fire , Kate call'd her Master straight into the Room , and said Sir , I strange and admire , You should buy this , 'tis not worth a souse , no one would be able to eat it , Nay , it will stink us all out of the house , I vow and protest you are cheated . Prithee said he let another be bought , and go thy self Kate I entreat thee , And cast this same in some secret Vault , and likewise take care they don't cheat thee , Honest poor Kate the innocent Maid , she did as her Master adviz'd her , And as the Goose down the Vault she convey' some two or three Women surpriz'd her . Then to a Justice they haul'd her with speed , concluding some child she did smother , That she might suffer for that wicked Deed , and call'd her a Murderous Mother , Yet she declar'd it was but a Goose , but Justice nor none would believe her , Telling her , that was and idle Excuse , to Gaol she was sent , which did grieve her . For her returning he waiting did stand , And seem'd to be highly offended , At length a Letter came to his Wives hand , which show'd the Maid was apprehended , Reading the same , she to him did run , with railing his Ears she surrounded , See what your impudent Gillian has done , and innocent Brat she has drounded . Then to the Justice he trott'd amain , and told him a sorrowful Ditty , When the whole storoy he then had made plain , his case he did presently pity , Kate was releas'd then home they did go , her Master did lovingly hand her , Now ever since those that do him well know , they call him the Cunnig Old Gander . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 