Courageous Jemmy's Resolution , OR , And Answer to Coy Jenny's Reply . You Maidens fair of beauty bright , I pray attend and mind ; You may be Crowned with Delight , If you are not unkind . To the Tune of , Jenny tell me Roundly . JENNY when I was most Loyal , you did scornfully deride me , This is Truth without denial , 'twas your frowns that did divide me ; Since 'tis so , farewell go , for Coy Jenny now believe me : Beauty fare , shan't ensnare , nor your frowns shall never grieve me . Man with Wisdom may be armed , to subdue the heat of folly , He's a Fool that will be Charmed to that Fate of Melancholy ; Though I say , Maidens may give to Youngmen sharp reflection , Yet be rul'd , ne're be fool'd , take my Counsel for direction . Whensoever they discover that your Love is most entire , Finding you a faithful Lover , then they'l baffle your desire : Therefore I , them defy , I will not be thus abused ; Love I find , when unkind , is a Plague to those that use it . BEauty never shall betray me , nor subdue my disposition , No nor grief shall near decay me , I will be my own Physician ; For my Love , i [ ' ] le remove , since my reason does advice me : For no more , I'le adore , Beauty shall not tantalize me . Jenny thou wast often froward , when you found my Love United , You were peevish and untoward , thus refus'd to be delighted ; You intend , we should bend , counting it to be our Duty : I reply , I'le deny , e're to be a slave to Beauty . Should they be perfum'd and painted , yet I will not be deluded , Though they seem for to be Sainted , yet from me they are excluded ; To prevail , they shall fail , I will still withstand the motion ; I will be , perfect free , this shall be my resolution . Then brave Lads of Loyal London , see what here I have indicted , Maidens they will cry they're undone , if they find they once are slighted ; They lament , and Repent , that they ever was so cruel : Then you'l find , they'l be kind , and will prize you as a Jewel . Though you love with true affection , and desire to raise your Honour , Then observe my kind direction , do not seem to dote upon her : If you do , as I'm true , they will certainly reject you ; With a frown , run you down , and will not at all respect you . What I have in brief declared , let it be your Rule umninded , See you don't at all defer it , then you'l never fail to find it ; Happile you may be free from all vexatious clamours : Then beware of the snare , that wou'd cross your pleasant hu-mours . Wine will truly make thee merry , and will banish all vexation , Fill the to'ther Glass of Sherry , give thy heart a sweet Colation ; For no more I'le adore neither Jenny , Sue , nor Sarah : But brave Boys , Crown our joys with a Glass of Rich Canary . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . Courageous Jemmy's Resolution , OR , And Answer to Coy Jenny's Reply . You Maidens fair of beauty bright , I pray attend and mind ; You may be Crowned with Delight , If you are not unkind . To the Tune of , Jenny tell me Roundly . JENNY when I was most Loyal , you did scornfully deride me , This is Truth without denial , 'twas your frowns that did divide me ; Since 'tis so , farewell go , for Coy Jenny now believe me : Beauty fare , shan't ensnare , nor your frowns shall never grieve me . Man with Wisdom may be armed , to subdue the heat of folly , He's a Fool that will be Charmed to that Fate of Melancholy ; Though I say , Maidens may give to Youngmen sharp reflection , Yet be rul'd , ne're be fool'd , take my Counsel for direction . Whensoever they discover that your Love is most entire , Finding you a faithful Lover , then they'l baffle your desire : Therefore I , them defy , I will not be thus abused ; Love I find , when unkind , is a Plague to those that use it . BEauty never shall betray me , nor subdue my disposition , No nor grief shall near decay me , I will be my own Physician ; For my Love , i [ ' ] le remove , since my reason does advice me : For no more , I'le adore , Beauty shall not tantalize me . Jenny thou wast often froward , when you found my Love United , You were peevish and untoward , thus refus'd to be delighted ; You intend , we should bend , counting it to be our Duty : I reply , I'le deny , e're to be a slave to Beauty . Should they be perfum'd and painted , yet I will not be deluded , Though they seem for to be Sainted , yet from me they are excluded ; To prevail , they shall fail , I will still withstand the motion ; I will be , perfect free , this shall be my resolution . Then brave Lads of Loyal London , see what here I have indicted , Maidens they will cry they're undone , if they find they once are slighted ; They lament , and Repent , that they ever was so cruel : Then you'l find , they'l be kind , and will prize you as a Jewel . Though you love with true affection , and desire to raise your Honour , Then observe my kind direction , do not seem to dote upon her : If you do , as I'm true , they will certainly reject you ; With a frown , run you down , and will not at all respect you . What I have in brief declared , let it be your Rule umninded , See you don't at all defer it , then you'l never fail to find it ; Happile you may be free from all vexatious clamours : Then beware of the snare , that wou'd cross your pleasant hu-mours . Wine will truly make thee merry , and will banish all vexation , Fill the to'ther Glass of Sherry , give thy heart a sweet Colation ; For no more I'le adore neither Jenny , Sue , nor Sarah : But brave Boys , Crown our joys with a Glass of Rich Canary . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 