Cupids Delight ; Or , The Two young Lovers broyl'd in love . This Youngman met his Lover on a Day , And desired her a while with him to stay ; The Maid was civil , and did not deny , That she might hear the Youngman's kind reply . The Young man desir'd her for to be so kind , That he might understand part of her mind ; The Maid with honesty , upon my life , Did yield to be his lawful Married Wife . The Tune is , If the Door is locked , where I have knocked ; Or , The Valiant Trooper . THere was two Lovers that met together , all at a place where there was a Well ; And there the Youngman to his Lover , spoke to the Maiden to try his skill : Sweetheart if you will be pleas'd to go to drink a Pint of Wine , if I may be so bold , I'le not change my old love for a new , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . O little Cupid be thou but friendly , to help me forward with this my suit ; That my Love to me she may speak kindly , now we'r met together , and I am put to' For pretty Peggy , my love is to thee , if I may speak and be so bold ; I'le not change , etc Thou art so neat in every part , and so beautiful unto my Eye , My pretty Peg thou hast stolen my heart , I can keep no other company : Thou art so fair without compare , thou art not too young , nor yet too old , I'le not change , etc If e're a Phoenix that there be , my pretty Peggy she is one ; If thou and I can but agree , I'le be to thee a loving Man : Thou shalt not want for any thing that can be god , or for Money sold : I'le not change my old love for a new , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . She is of such a civil Carriage , there is but few with her may compare , I long that we were joined in Marriage , my little Peggy thou art my dear : Thou shalt wear Silks my pretty Girl , or anything that's for money sold , I'le not change , etc O pretty Peggy , before we part , resolve me quickly then off or on , I am so Lovesick at my heart , and none can cure me but thee alone : Thou art the Maid that must save my life , or I shall die before I'm old , I'le not change , etc The Maidens Reply . INdeed sweet Sir , I was much to blame , if I should wrong my Love , I say , I never more should own my name , for my love to cast a man away : I will not tarry , but with you i'le Marry , cheer up my dear love with courage bold , I'le be your true Love , look for no new Love , what care we for a Gown of Gold . True love is better then Gold or Treasure , if you to me will but say and hold , A good husband is a Woman's pleasure , there is no comfort like that I'm told : I will love thee till the day of death , and make much of you when you are old , I'le be your true love , look for no new love , what care we for a Gown of Gold . Then the youngman he was very pleasant , when he herd the Maidens kind Reply , True love is never out of season , with them that uses constancy : Then he kissed her sweetly and completely ; and made up the bargain I was told , He chang'd not his true love , for a new love , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . Now to conclude , and make and end , so lovingly they did agree , He made her his Wife and his bosom friend , and a gallant couple they were to see : She did not deny him , but for to try him , it's a custom that all Maids do hold , He has his old love , he needs no new love , God send her not to prove a Scold . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . Cupids Delight ; Or , The Two young Lovers broyl'd in love . This Youngman met his Lover on a Day , And desired her a while with him to stay ; The Maid was civil , and did not deny , That she might hear the Youngman's kind reply . The Young man desir'd her for to be so kind , That he might understand part of her mind ; The Maid with honesty , upon my life , Did yield to be his lawful Married Wife . The Tune is , If the Door is locked , where I have knocked ; Or , The Valiant Trooper . THere was two Lovers that met together , all at a place where there was a Well ; And there the Youngman to his Lover , spoke to the Maiden to try his skill : Sweetheart if you will be pleas'd to go to drink a Pint of Wine , if I may be so bold , I'le not change my old love for a new , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . O little Cupid be thou but friendly , to help me forward with this my suit ; That my Love to me she may speak kindly , now we'r met together , and I am put to' For pretty Peggy , my love is to thee , if I may speak and be so bold ; I'le not change , etc Thou art so neat in every part , and so beautiful unto my Eye , My pretty Peg thou hast stolen my heart , I can keep no other company : Thou art so fair without compare , thou art not too young , nor yet too old , I'le not change , etc If e're a Phoenix that there be , my pretty Peggy she is one ; If thou and I can but agree , I'le be to thee a loving Man : Thou shalt not want for any thing that can be god , or for Money sold : I'le not change my old love for a new , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . She is of such a civil Carriage , there is but few with her may compare , I long that we were joined in Marriage , my little Peggy thou art my dear : Thou shalt wear Silks my pretty Girl , or anything that's for money sold , I'le not change , etc O pretty Peggy , before we part , resolve me quickly then off or on , I am so Lovesick at my heart , and none can cure me but thee alone : Thou art the Maid that must save my life , or I shall die before I'm old , I'le not change , etc The Maidens Reply . INdeed sweet Sir , I was much to blame , if I should wrong my Love , I say , I never more should own my name , for my love to cast a man away : I will not tarry , but with you i'le Marry , cheer up my dear love with courage bold , I'le be your true Love , look for no new Love , what care we for a Gown of Gold . True love is better then Gold or Treasure , if you to me will but say and hold , A good husband is a Woman's pleasure , there is no comfort like that I'm told : I will love thee till the day of death , and make much of you when you are old , I'le be your true love , look for no new love , what care we for a Gown of Gold . Then the youngman he was very pleasant , when he herd the Maidens kind Reply , True love is never out of season , with them that uses constancy : Then he kissed her sweetly and completely ; and made up the bargain I was told , He chang'd not his true love , for a new love , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . Now to conclude , and make and end , so lovingly they did agree , He made her his Wife and his bosom friend , and a gallant couple they were to see : She did not deny him , but for to try him , it's a custom that all Maids do hold , He has his old love , he needs no new love , God send her not to prove a Scold . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . Cupids Delight ; Or , The Two young Lovers broyl'd in love . This Youngman met his Lover on a Day , And desired her a while with him to stay ; The Maid was civil , and did not deny , That she might hear the Youngman's kind reply . The Young man desir'd her for to be so kind , That he might understand part of her mind ; The Maid with honesty , upon my life , Did yield to be his lawful Married Wife . The Tune is , If the Door is locked , where I have knocked ; Or , The Valiant Trooper . THere was two Lovers that met together , all at a place where there was a Well ; And there the Youngman to his Lover , spoke to the Maiden to try his skill : Sweetheart if you will be pleas'd to go to drink a Pint of Wine , if I may be so bold , I'le not change my old love for a new , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . O little Cupid be thou but friendly , to help me forward with this my suit ; That my Love to me she may speak kindly , now we'r met together , and I am put to' For pretty Peggy , my love is to thee , if I may speak and be so bold ; I'le not change , etc Thou art so neat in every part , and so beautiful unto my Eye , My pretty Peg thou hast stolen my heart , I can keep no other company : Thou art so fair without compare , thou art not too young , nor yet too old , I'le not change , etc If e're a Phoenix that there be , my pretty Peggy she is one ; If thou and I can but agree , I'le be to thee a loving Man : Thou shalt not want for any thing that can be god , or for Money sold : I'le not change my old love for a new , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . She is of such a civil Carriage , there is but few with her may compare , I long that we were joined in Marriage , my little Peggy thou art my dear : Thou shalt wear Silks my pretty Girl , or anything that's for money sold , I'le not change , etc O pretty Peggy , before we part , resolve me quickly then off or on , I am so Lovesick at my heart , and none can cure me but thee alone : Thou art the Maid that must save my life , or I shall die before I'm old , I'le not change , etc The Maidens Reply . INdeed sweet Sir , I was much to blame , if I should wrong my Love , I say , I never more should own my name , for my love to cast a man away : I will not tarry , but with you i'le Marry , cheer up my dear love with courage bold , I'le be your true Love , look for no new Love , what care we for a Gown of Gold . True love is better then Gold or Treasure , if you to me will but say and hold , A good husband is a Woman's pleasure , there is no comfort like that I'm told : I will love thee till the day of death , and make much of you when you are old , I'le be your true love , look for no new love , what care we for a Gown of Gold . Then the youngman he was very pleasant , when he herd the Maidens kind Reply , True love is never out of season , with them that uses constancy : Then he kissed her sweetly and completely ; and made up the bargain I was told , He chang'd not his true love , for a new love , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . Now to conclude , and make and end , so lovingly they did agree , He made her his Wife and his bosom friend , and a gallant couple they were to see : She did not deny him , but for to try him , it's a custom that all Maids do hold , He has his old love , he needs no new love , God send her not to prove a Scold . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . Cupids Delight ; Or , The Two young Lovers broyl'd in love . This Youngman met his Lover on a Day , And desired her a while with him to stay ; The Maid was civil , and did not deny , That she might hear the Youngman's kind reply . The Young man desir'd her for to be so kind , That he might understand part of her mind ; The Maid with honesty , upon my life , Did yield to be his lawful Married Wife . The Tune is , If the Door is locked , where I have knocked ; Or , The Valiant Trooper . THere was two Lovers that met together , all at a place where there was a Well ; And there the Youngman to his Lover , spoke to the Maiden to try his skill : Sweetheart if you will be pleas'd to go to drink a Pint of Wine , if I may be so bold , I'le not change my old love for a new , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . O little Cupid be thou but friendly , to help me forward with this my suit ; That my Love to me she may speak kindly , now we'r met together , and I am put to' For pretty Peggy , my love is to thee , if I may speak and be so bold ; I'le not change , etc Thou art so neat in every part , and so beautiful unto my Eye , My pretty Peg thou hast stolen my heart , I can keep no other company : Thou art so fair without compare , thou art not too young , nor yet too old , I'le not change , etc If e're a Phoenix that there be , my pretty Peggy she is one ; If thou and I can but agree , I'le be to thee a loving Man : Thou shalt not want for any thing that can be god , or for Money sold : I'le not change my old love for a new , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . She is of such a civil Carriage , there is but few with her may compare , I long that we were joined in Marriage , my little Peggy thou art my dear : Thou shalt wear Silks my pretty Girl , or anything that's for money sold , I'le not change , etc O pretty Peggy , before we part , resolve me quickly then off or on , I am so Lovesick at my heart , and none can cure me but thee alone : Thou art the Maid that must save my life , or I shall die before I'm old , I'le not change , etc The Maidens Reply . INdeed sweet Sir , I was much to blame , if I should wrong my Love , I say , I never more should own my name , for my love to cast a man away : I will not tarry , but with you i'le Marry , cheer up my dear love with courage bold , I'le be your true Love , look for no new Love , what care we for a Gown of Gold . True love is better then Gold or Treasure , if you to me will but say and hold , A good husband is a Woman's pleasure , there is no comfort like that I'm told : I will love thee till the day of death , and make much of you when you are old , I'le be your true love , look for no new love , what care we for a Gown of Gold . Then the youngman he was very pleasant , when he herd the Maidens kind Reply , True love is never out of season , with them that uses constancy : Then he kissed her sweetly and completely ; and made up the bargain I was told , He chang'd not his true love , for a new love , for a Girl that wears a Gown of Gold . Now to conclude , and make and end , so lovingly they did agree , He made her his Wife and his bosom friend , and a gallant couple they were to see : She did not deny him , but for to try him , it's a custom that all Maids do hold , He has his old love , he needs no new love , God send her not to prove a Scold . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 