Jockey's Lamentation turn'd into Joy : OR , JENNY yields at last . Being a most delightful New Song , greatly in request both in Court and City . To a Pleasant New Playhouse Tune . AH ! Jenny Gin , your eyn do kill , you'l let me tell my pain ; Geud faith I'se lov'd against my will , but wou'd not break my Chain : I eance was call'd a bonny Lad , till that fair face of yours , Betray'd the freedom once I had , and all my blither hours . And now , wey's me , like Winter looks , my fading showering eyn ; And on the banks of shadowing Brooks , I pass the tedious time : I'm call the streams that glide soft on , to witness if they see , On all the banks they glide along , so true a Swain as me . No , none could e're so faithful prove , no love can mine exceed ; Yet in this Maze I'm still must move , where hope's are all my feed : Then Jenny turn thy eyes on me , Oh turn thy blushing face ; Let Jockey now some comfort spee , or else he dees apace . My flocks they all neglected are , and stray in yonder Grove ; While here I'm Court my pretty fair , and fain would have her love : Then prithee Jenny be not coy , for a more constant Swain , Never did bonny Lass enjoy , upon this flowery Plain . Jenny . Alas kind Jockey , I'm can grieve , to hear you sighs and moan , But wey's me , I'm can ne'r believe , you with such passion burn : Swains now of late have god the knack , poor Damosels to betray , But when they once have what they lack , ah ! then they's gang away . I'm cannot think kind Jockey , you who every Lass can Court , To any one can e're be true , should she once yield her For For shou'd I'm now believe your tongue , and you shou'd break your troth , Wey's me , then Jenny is undone , and loses all shee'n hath . Jockey . Ah! my dear Jenny , think not I , my love so shallow built , For if I'm have you not I'm die , i'm swear by this gay field : I'm languish often on these banks , to streams oft tell my moan ; Witness you Swans , whose silver ranks , in grief have seen me drown . Jenny . Alas ! could I but think you true , I'm willingly could love ; Yet swear once by your Bonnet blew , you ever kind will prove : And I'm consider on't a while , for , ah me ! love is blind , And if you Jenny won't beguile , geud faith I'm may be kind . Jockey . I by my Bonnet swear , and all that ever I'm hold dear , Nay , I'm the woods and flocks do call , to witness too , my dear : Oh joyful me , come let us gang I'm can no longer stay , My joys to mighty height are sprang , since Jenny says not nay . Jenny . Come take my hand , but I'm do fear , your love in time will waste , And then , wey's me , sad grief and care , to death will Jenny haste . Jockey . Fear not my Love , my joy , my Bride , but let us hence away , And you shall find by Virgins side , a blither Lad ne'r lay . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . Jockey's Lamentation turn'd into Joy : OR , JENNY yields at last . Being a most delightful New Song , greatly in request both in Court and City . To a Pleasant New Playhouse Tune . AH ! Jenny Gin , your eyn do kill , you'l let me tell my pain ; Geud faith I'se lov'd against my will , but wou'd not break my Chain : I eance was call'd a bonny Lad , till that fair face of yours , Betray'd the freedom once I had , and all my blither hours . And now , wey's me , like Winter looks , my fading showering eyn ; And on the banks of shadowing Brooks , I pass the tedious time : I'm call the streams that glide soft on , to witness if they see , On all the banks they glide along , so true a Swain as me . No , none could e're so faithful prove , no love can mine exceed ; Yet in this Maze I'm still must move , where hope's are all my feed : Then Jenny turn thy eyes on me , Oh turn thy blushing face ; Let Jockey now some comfort spee , or else he dees apace . My flocks they all neglected are , and stray in yonder Grove ; While here I'm Court my pretty fair , and fain would have her love : Then prithee Jenny be not coy , for a more constant Swain , Never did bonny Lass enjoy , upon this flowery Plain . Jenny . Alas kind Jockey , I'm can grieve , to hear you sighs and moan , But wey's me , I'm can ne'r believe , you with such passion burn : Swains now of late have god the knack , poor Damosels to betray , But when they once have what they lack , ah ! then they's gang away . I'm cannot think kind Jockey , you who every Lass can Court , To any one can e're be true , should she once yield her For For shou'd I'm now believe your tongue , and you shou'd break your troth , Wey's me , then Jenny is undone , and loses all shee'n hath . Jockey . Ah! my dear Jenny , think not I , my love so shallow built , For if I'm have you not I'm die , i'm swear by this gay field : I'm languish often on these banks , to streams oft tell my moan ; Witness you Swans , whose silver ranks , in grief have seen me drown . Jenny . Alas ! could I but think you true , I'm willingly could love ; Yet swear once by your Bonnet blew , you ever kind will prove : And I'm consider on't a while , for , ah me ! love is blind , And if you Jenny won't beguile , geud faith I'm may be kind . Jockey . I by my Bonnet swear , and all that ever I'm hold dear , Nay , I'm the woods and flocks do call , to witness too , my dear : Oh joyful me , come let us gang I'm can no longer stay , My joys to mighty height are sprang , since Jenny says not nay . Jenny . Come take my hand , but I'm do fear , your love in time will waste , And then , wey's me , sad grief and care , to death will Jenny haste . Jockey . Fear not my Love , my joy , my Bride , but let us hence away , And you shall find by Virgins side , a blither Lad ne'r lay . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . Jockey's Lamentation turn'd into Joy : OR , JENNY yields at last . Being a most delightful New Song , greatly in request both in Court and City . To a Pleasant New Playhouse Tune . AH ! Jenny Gin , your eyn do kill , you'l let me tell my pain ; Geud faith I'se lov'd against my will , but wou'd not break my Chain : I eance was call'd a bonny Lad , till that fair face of yours , Betray'd the freedom once I had , and all my blither hours . And now , wey's me , like Winter looks , my fading showering eyn ; And on the banks of shadowing Brooks , I pass the tedious time : I'm call the streams that glide soft on , to witness if they see , On all the banks they glide along , so true a Swain as me . No , none could e're so faithful prove , no love can mine exceed ; Yet in this Maze I'm still must move , where hope's are all my feed : Then Jenny turn thy eyes on me , Oh turn thy blushing face ; Let Jockey now some comfort spee , or else he dees apace . My flocks they all neglected are , and stray in yonder Grove ; While here I'm Court my pretty fair , and fain would have her love : Then prithee Jenny be not coy , for a more constant Swain , Never did bonny Lass enjoy , upon this flowery Plain . Jenny . Alas kind Jockey , I'm can grieve , to hear you sighs and moan , But wey's me , I'm can ne'r believe , you with such passion burn : Swains now of late have god the knack , poor Damosels to betray , But when they once have what they lack , ah ! then they's gang away . I'm cannot think kind Jockey , you who every Lass can Court , To any one can e're be true , should she once yield her For For shou'd I'm now believe your tongue , and you shou'd break your troth , Wey's me , then Jenny is undone , and loses all shee'n hath . Jockey . Ah! my dear Jenny , think not I , my love so shallow built , For if I'm have you not I'm die , i'm swear by this gay field : I'm languish often on these banks , to streams oft tell my moan ; Witness you Swans , whose silver ranks , in grief have seen me drown . Jenny . Alas ! could I but think you true , I'm willingly could love ; Yet swear once by your Bonnet blew , you ever kind will prove : And I'm consider on't a while , for , ah me ! love is blind , And if you Jenny won't beguile , geud faith I'm may be kind . Jockey . I by my Bonnet swear , and all that ever I'm hold dear , Nay , I'm the woods and flocks do call , to witness too , my dear : Oh joyful me , come let us gang I'm can no longer stay , My joys to mighty height are sprang , since Jenny says not nay . Jenny . Come take my hand , but I'm do fear , your love in time will waste , And then , wey's me , sad grief and care , to death will Jenny haste . Jockey . Fear not my Love , my joy , my Bride , but let us hence away , And you shall find by Virgins side , a blither Lad ne'r lay . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . Jockey's Lamentation turn'd into Joy : OR , JENNY yields at last . Being a most delightful New Song , greatly in request both in Court and City . To a Pleasant New Playhouse Tune . AH ! Jenny Gin , your eyn do kill , you'l let me tell my pain ; Geud faith I'se lov'd against my will , but wou'd not break my Chain : I eance was call'd a bonny Lad , till that fair face of yours , Betray'd the freedom once I had , and all my blither hours . And now , wey's me , like Winter looks , my fading showering eyn ; And on the banks of shadowing Brooks , I pass the tedious time : I'm call the streams that glide soft on , to witness if they see , On all the banks they glide along , so true a Swain as me . No , none could e're so faithful prove , no love can mine exceed ; Yet in this Maze I'm still must move , where hope's are all my feed : Then Jenny turn thy eyes on me , Oh turn thy blushing face ; Let Jockey now some comfort spee , or else he dees apace . My flocks they all neglected are , and stray in yonder Grove ; While here I'm Court my pretty fair , and fain would have her love : Then prithee Jenny be not coy , for a more constant Swain , Never did bonny Lass enjoy , upon this flowery Plain . Jenny . Alas kind Jockey , I'm can grieve , to hear you sighs and moan , But wey's me , I'm can ne'r believe , you with such passion burn : Swains now of late have god the knack , poor Damosels to betray , But when they once have what they lack , ah ! then they's gang away . I'm cannot think kind Jockey , you who every Lass can Court , To any one can e're be true , should she once yield her For For shou'd I'm now believe your tongue , and you shou'd break your troth , Wey's me , then Jenny is undone , and loses all shee'n hath . Jockey . Ah! my dear Jenny , think not I , my love so shallow built , For if I'm have you not I'm die , i'm swear by this gay field : I'm languish often on these banks , to streams oft tell my moan ; Witness you Swans , whose silver ranks , in grief have seen me drown . Jenny . Alas ! could I but think you true , I'm willingly could love ; Yet swear once by your Bonnet blew , you ever kind will prove : And I'm consider on't a while , for , ah me ! love is blind , And if you Jenny won't beguile , geud faith I'm may be kind . Jockey . I by my Bonnet swear , and all that ever I'm hold dear , Nay , I'm the woods and flocks do call , to witness too , my dear : Oh joyful me , come let us gang I'm can no longer stay , My joys to mighty height are sprang , since Jenny says not nay . Jenny . Come take my hand , but I'm do fear , your love in time will waste , And then , wey's me , sad grief and care , to death will Jenny haste . Jockey . Fear not my Love , my joy , my Bride , but let us hence away , And you shall find by Virgins side , a blither Lad ne'r lay . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 