Englands Gentle Admonition : OR , A Warning-Piece to all Sinners . From hateful Pride see thou thy heart keep clear , From Covetousness Instruct thy Brother dear ; In Innocent Blood be sure thou have no hand , The Holy Scriptures the same does us command . The Tune is , Poor Toms Progress : Or , John Dory should his ambling Nag for Kickshaws . By Thomas Robins , a Wellwisher to the Church of England . GOod People all I pray draw near , And to these Lines a while give ear ; For I purpose now to declare poor Englands Misery : And the true cause of these our Woes , I unto you will here disclose , The Lord Convert poor Englands Foes from Envy . But many are now so Wicked grown , The Scriptures true they will not own ; For Charity is little shown in these our Sinful Days : That the Poor in streets may starve and die Yet Wicked Pride is mounted high , And poor content does a bleeding lie , more pity . But Extortion bears so great a sway , It brings all Trading to Decay ; Which makes the Poor cry out and say have pity Lord with speed : Both Rich and Poor we all do cry To thee Oh Lord , that sits on High , Defend us from Blood Tyranny , in Mercy . The Gospel pure Oh Lord defend , We have none else to stand our Friend ; Therefore thy helping hand down send , that it may flourish still : In spite of Jew , of Turk or Pope , Oh Lord in thee is all our hope , To let the Gospel have full Scope in England . That neither Pagan , Turk or Jew , Or any of their Wicked Crew , Have Power our Kingdom to subdue , but stand in our defence : Forsake us not in our distress , But pardon Lord our Wickedness , And turn us Lord as thou thinks best in Mercy . The Second Part , To the same Tune . For too many have we in this Land , That plays their Game so under hand ; It is hard for all to understand the full intent they have To bring us all to grief and woe , Church-Government to overthrow , Oh Lord above thy Mercy show to England . It is hateful Pride and deadly since , Which daily we do all run in , God does these judgements on us bring , as a Warning-piece to all : Therefore let all good Christians pray , Unto the Lord both Night and Day , That he would turn his Wrath away from England . What hateful since can any name , Is not in England to our shame , A daily practice made in same , yet few does strive to mend : If God do not us Mercy show , But down his judgements on us throw , When it is too late we all shall know our Folly . So many Sects now in England are , We all stand need to have a care , That we be not catched within the Snare of that Rebellious Crew : That would both King and State destroy , The Church and England to annoy , But God I hope will turn their joy to Mourning . The Innocent blood God would defend , If we would our sinful Lives but mend , And Night and Day on God attend , by Prayer we may obtain What ever we desire to have , What Tongue can speak or heart can crave , If we repent we may receive his Mercy . The Lord preserve our gracious King , And rule his heart in every thing , And at the last to Heaven him bring , where Glorious Angels be : The Commonalty Oh Lord defend , Convert us Lord our Lives to mend , That we may make a faithful End , unto thee . Here follows the Authors Advice to all true Christians , to desire them that these my Lines may be no offence unto them , but rather take it as a gentle Admonition ; for we can - not instruct one another too much in these sad times , for we do not know how soon the Judgement of God will fallen upon us , for the Lord hath given us a fair Warning to amend our sinful Lives , by his mercy in staying the hands of those cruel people , which by relation had and intent to destroy so much Innocent Blood : Which the Lord of his Mercy forgive them : And I desire that we may all desire the Lord to forgive them ; for if we look to be forgiven , we ought to forgive , remember the Lords Prayer . But indeed the truth is , we be all axcessary to it ; for it is our Sins that hath brought it on us , for there is not any since that man can name , but it is committed in England , therefore how should we go unpunished : And so I conclude , desiring the Lord of his mercy to give us all Grace to amend our sinful Lives , and in the conclusion always to say with the Publycan , Lord have mercy on me a sinner : Amen . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Englands Gentle Admonition : OR , A Warning-Piece to all Sinners . From hateful Pride see thou thy heart keep clear , From Covetousness Instruct thy Brother dear ; In Innocent Blood be sure thou have no hand , The Holy Scriptures the same does us command . The Tune is , Poor Toms Progress : Or , John Dory should his ambling Nag for Kickshaws . By Thomas Robins , a Wellwisher to the Church of England . GOod People all I pray draw near , And to these Lines a while give ear ; For I purpose now to declare poor Englands Misery : And the true cause of these our Woes , I unto you will here disclose , The Lord Convert poor Englands Foes from Envy . But many are now so Wicked grown , The Scriptures true they will not own ; For Charity is little shown in these our Sinful Days : That the Poor in streets may starve and die Yet Wicked Pride is mounted high , And poor content does a bleeding lie , more pity . But Extortion bears so great a sway , It brings all Trading to Decay ; Which makes the Poor cry out and say have pity Lord with speed : Both Rich and Poor we all do cry To thee Oh Lord , that sits on High , Defend us from Blood Tyranny , in Mercy . The Gospel pure Oh Lord defend , We have none else to stand our Friend ; Therefore thy helping hand down send , that it may flourish still : In spite of Jew , of Turk or Pope , Oh Lord in thee is all our hope , To let the Gospel have full Scope in England . That neither Pagan , Turk or Jew , Or any of their Wicked Crew , Have Power our Kingdom to subdue , but stand in our defence : Forsake us not in our distress , But pardon Lord our Wickedness , And turn us Lord as thou thinks best in Mercy . The Second Part , To the same Tune . For too many have we in this Land , That plays their Game so under hand ; It is hard for all to understand the full intent they have To bring us all to grief and woe , Church-Government to overthrow , Oh Lord above thy Mercy show to England . It is hateful Pride and deadly since , Which daily we do all run in , God does these judgements on us bring , as a Warning-piece to all : Therefore let all good Christians pray , Unto the Lord both Night and Day , That he would turn his Wrath away from England . What hateful since can any name , Is not in England to our shame , A daily practice made in same , yet few does strive to mend : If God do not us Mercy show , But down his judgements on us throw , When it is too late we all shall know our Folly . So many Sects now in England are , We all stand need to have a care , That we be not catched within the Snare of that Rebellious Crew : That would both King and State destroy , The Church and England to annoy , But God I hope will turn their joy to Mourning . The Innocent blood God would defend , If we would our sinful Lives but mend , And Night and Day on God attend , by Prayer we may obtain What ever we desire to have , What Tongue can speak or heart can crave , If we repent we may receive his Mercy . The Lord preserve our gracious King , And rule his heart in every thing , And at the last to Heaven him bring , where Glorious Angels be : The Commonalty Oh Lord defend , Convert us Lord our Lives to mend , That we may make a faithful End , unto thee . Here follows the Authors Advice to all true Christians , to desire them that these my Lines may be no offence unto them , but rather take it as a gentle Admonition ; for we can - not instruct one another too much in these sad times , for we do not know how soon the Judgement of God will fallen upon us , for the Lord hath given us a fair Warning to amend our sinful Lives , by his mercy in staying the hands of those cruel people , which by relation had and intent to destroy so much Innocent Blood : Which the Lord of his Mercy forgive them : And I desire that we may all desire the Lord to forgive them ; for if we look to be forgiven , we ought to forgive , remember the Lords Prayer . But indeed the truth is , we be all axcessary to it ; for it is our Sins that hath brought it on us , for there is not any since that man can name , but it is committed in England , therefore how should we go unpunished : And so I conclude , desiring the Lord of his mercy to give us all Grace to amend our sinful Lives , and in the conclusion always to say with the Publycan , Lord have mercy on me a sinner : Amen . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 