Coy JENNY , And Constant JEMMY . OR , True Love Rewarded with Kindness : A Delightful and pleasant New Song . Loves potent power no mortal can withstand , Nor shun those Shafts shot by God Cupids hand ; Jenny resists in vain , for Jemmy he , Began the Onset , gain'd the Victory . To a new playhouse Tune , or , tell me Jenny etc TEll me Jenny tell me roundly , when you will your heart surrender , Faith and troth I love thee soundly , 'twas I that was the first Pretender : Ne'r say nay , nor delay , heres my heart , and here's my hand too , All's that mine , shall be thine . body and goods at thy command too . Ah! how many Maids , quoth Jenny , have you promis'd to be true to ; Fie , I think the Devils in you , to hug a body so as you do : What d'ye do , let me go , I cant abide such foolish doing ; Get you gone , Naughty man , fie , is this your way of Wooing . Prithee Jenny don't despise me , since I am thy faithful Lover , I above the Indies prize thee , and my mind to thee discover ; Take no care , for I swear , thou shalt be my only Jewel ; Grant relief , to my grief , prithee dearest be not cruel . All your words cannot deceive me , for I know you do but flatter , When your will is gain'd you'l leave me for to mince upon the matter : Therefore know , to your Bow , I will never yield or bend to , For I find , words are wind , whatsoever you pretend to . O my heart will burst in sunder , if you do not grant some pity , Jenny is the world's great wonder , of the pregnant , wise , and witty : O my dear , do not fear , for to you I will be Loyal , If to me , you'l be free , and but put me to the Trial . Well quoth Jenny , you have charm'd me , with the power of your expression , And with love hath strangely arm'd me , from which I can make no digression : And will grant , what you want , if you will vouchsafe to marry , And if so , let us go , for I will no longer tarry . Dearest Jenny I consent to , this your fair and friendly offer , Which shall be to thy content to , since you make so kind a proffer : None alive , shall deprive me of my dear and only Honey , I am thine , thou art mine , better far than Gold or Money . Thus at length they both consented , nothing could these Lovers sever , And their friends were well contented , they resolv'd to love for ever : So they went , with intent , to the Kirk for to be marry'd , Both did join , and combine , vex'd that they so long had tarry'd . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Coy JENNY , And Constant JEMMY . OR , True Love Rewarded with Kindness : A Delightful and pleasant New Song . Loves potent power no mortal can withstand , Nor shun those Shafts shot by God Cupids hand ; Jenny resists in vain , for Jemmy he , Began the Onset , gain'd the Victory . To a new playhouse Tune , or , tell me Jenny etc TEll me Jenny tell me roundly , when you will your heart surrender , Faith and troth I love thee soundly , 'twas I that was the first Pretender : Ne'r say nay , nor delay , heres my heart , and here's my hand too , All's that mine , shall be thine . body and goods at thy command too . Ah! how many Maids , quoth Jenny , have you promis'd to be true to ; Fie , I think the Devils in you , to hug a body so as you do : What d'ye do , let me go , I cant abide such foolish doing ; Get you gone , Naughty man , fie , is this your way of Wooing . Prithee Jenny don't despise me , since I am thy faithful Lover , I above the Indies prize thee , and my mind to thee discover ; Take no care , for I swear , thou shalt be my only Jewel ; Grant relief , to my grief , prithee dearest be not cruel . All your words cannot deceive me , for I know you do but flatter , When your will is gain'd you'l leave me for to mince upon the matter : Therefore know , to your Bow , I will never yield or bend to , For I find , words are wind , whatsoever you pretend to . O my heart will burst in sunder , if you do not grant some pity , Jenny is the world's great wonder , of the pregnant , wise , and witty : O my dear , do not fear , for to you I will be Loyal , If to me , you'l be free , and but put me to the Trial . Well quoth Jenny , you have charm'd me , with the power of your expression , And with love hath strangely arm'd me , from which I can make no digression : And will grant , what you want , if you will vouchsafe to marry , And if so , let us go , for I will no longer tarry . Dearest Jenny I consent to , this your fair and friendly offer , Which shall be to thy content to , since you make so kind a proffer : None alive , shall deprive me of my dear and only Honey , I am thine , thou art mine , better far than Gold or Money . Thus at length they both consented , nothing could these Lovers sever , And their friends were well contented , they resolv'd to love for ever : So they went , with intent , to the Kirk for to be marry'd , Both did join , and combine , vex'd that they so long had tarry'd . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 