FLORA's Departure : OR , Summer's Pride Abated . Cold Winter with his Icy looks bids Flora to be gone , And Both no more in Silver Brooks , for Frost is coming on . The Tune is , Young Phaon : Or , Busy Fame . DAme Flora in her rich Array , to winter now gives room , Who strips her of her Robes so gay , that had such sweet Perfume : He with his Icy Beard comes in , and looking her upon , To greet her thus he does begin , proud Flora now be gone . But Flora loath to leave the Streams , wherein she took delight ; And banish'd be from Cynthia's Beams , but slowly took her fligh Why should I leave the Plains ( quoth she ) that once I made so fine , And decked them most gorgeously , why dost thou call them thine ? Why must I leave the warbling Notes of my beloved Choir , That still would sin within the Woods , what Tune I did desire ? Oh! stay a while , cold Winter , till these pleasures all decline , And when thy Floods the Rivers fill , my pleasures i'le resign . Go , go , proud Flora , post away , make haste and hence begone , Believe me what I now do say , my Floods are coming on : Long time you raign'd in glory here , while I lay lurking by , You in your time did Domineer , so Flora now will I . Old Winter , prithee stay a while , be not so harsh to me ; For thou shouldst never take place , while Leaves are on the Tree . My Company is more esteem'd ten thousand times then thine , For they that once to me are wean'd , will ne'r with thee combine . Is this a time to prate to me , now coming into power ? I'le blast all that belongs to thee , and will thy joys devour : I'le Freeze thy pretty bubbling Springs , that by thee us'd to glide , And wither all those lovely things that puff'd thee up in Pride . I'le take possession of thy Bowers , wherein thou didst remain ; And make them swim with floating showers , and mighty Storms of Rain : Yea , where thou us'dst to Both thy self , there Rocks of Ice shall be , Lovers no more shall joy themselves , beneath the Myrtle Tree . Thou Frosty-bearded Winter , I will tell thee once again , Thy mighty Floods i'le quickly dry , and suck up all thy Rain : I'le thaw the Springs which thou dost freeze and guild my Plains once more , I'le cause fresh Leaves upon the Trees , then thou wilt me adore . For couldst thou once thy will obtain , thou wouldst me banish quite , The world should empty be of grain , such is thy deadly spigh No Fruits should then in Europe be , man's Palate for to please , Which makes so many envy thee , for such like tricks as these . I know , fair Flora , that thou art belov'd far more then I , To speak the truth , 'tis thy desert , with thee i'le now comply : Yet must thou give me leave a while , in Power for to remain ; Then thou shalt come again and smile , upon thy flowery Plain . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . FLORA's Departure : OR , Summer's Pride Abated . Cold Winter with his Icy looks bids Flora to be gone , And Both no more in Silver Brooks , for Frost is coming on . The Tune is , Young Phaon : Or , Busy Fame . DAme Flora in her rich Array , to winter now gives room , Who strips her of her Robes so gay , that had such sweet Perfume : He with his Icy Beard comes in , and looking her upon , To greet her thus he does begin , proud Flora now be gone . But Flora loath to leave the Streams , wherein she took delight ; And banish'd be from Cynthia's Beams , but slowly took her fligh Why should I leave the Plains ( quoth she ) that once I made so fine , And decked them most gorgeously , why dost thou call them thine ? Why must I leave the warbling Notes of my beloved Choir , That still would sin within the Woods , what Tune I did desire ? Oh! stay a while , cold Winter , till these pleasures all decline , And when thy Floods the Rivers fill , my pleasures i'le resign . Go , go , proud Flora , post away , make haste and hence begone , Believe me what I now do say , my Floods are coming on : Long time you raign'd in glory here , while I lay lurking by , You in your time did Domineer , so Flora now will I . Old Winter , prithee stay a while , be not so harsh to me ; For thou shouldst never take place , while Leaves are on the Tree . My Company is more esteem'd ten thousand times then thine , For they that once to me are wean'd , will ne'r with thee combine . Is this a time to prate to me , now coming into power ? I'le blast all that belongs to thee , and will thy joys devour : I'le Freeze thy pretty bubbling Springs , that by thee us'd to glide , And wither all those lovely things that puff'd thee up in Pride . I'le take possession of thy Bowers , wherein thou didst remain ; And make them swim with floating showers , and mighty Storms of Rain : Yea , where thou us'dst to Both thy self , there Rocks of Ice shall be , Lovers no more shall joy themselves , beneath the Myrtle Tree . Thou Frosty-bearded Winter , I will tell thee once again , Thy mighty Floods i'le quickly dry , and suck up all thy Rain : I'le thaw the Springs which thou dost freeze and guild my Plains once more , I'le cause fresh Leaves upon the Trees , then thou wilt me adore . For couldst thou once thy will obtain , thou wouldst me banish quite , The world should empty be of grain , such is thy deadly spigh No Fruits should then in Europe be , man's Palate for to please , Which makes so many envy thee , for such like tricks as these . I know , fair Flora , that thou art belov'd far more then I , To speak the truth , 'tis thy desert , with thee i'le now comply : Yet must thou give me leave a while , in Power for to remain ; Then thou shalt come again and smile , upon thy flowery Plain . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . FLORA's Departure : OR , Summer's Pride Abated . Cold Winter with his Icy looks bids Flora to be gone , And Both no more in Silver Brooks , for Frost is coming on . The Tune is , Young Phaon : Or , Busy Fame . DAme Flora in her rich Array , to winter now gives room , Who strips her of her Robes so gay , that had such sweet Perfume : He with his Icy Beard comes in , and looking her upon , To greet her thus he does begin , proud Flora now be gone . But Flora loath to leave the Streams , wherein she took delight ; And banish'd be from Cynthia's Beams , but slowly took her fligh Why should I leave the Plains ( quoth she ) that once I made so fine , And decked them most gorgeously , why dost thou call them thine ? Why must I leave the warbling Notes of my beloved Choir , That still would sin within the Woods , what Tune I did desire ? Oh! stay a while , cold Winter , till these pleasures all decline , And when thy Floods the Rivers fill , my pleasures i'le resign . Go , go , proud Flora , post away , make haste and hence begone , Believe me what I now do say , my Floods are coming on : Long time you raign'd in glory here , while I lay lurking by , You in your time did Domineer , so Flora now will I . Old Winter , prithee stay a while , be not so harsh to me ; For thou shouldst never take place , while Leaves are on the Tree . My Company is more esteem'd ten thousand times then thine , For they that once to me are wean'd , will ne'r with thee combine . Is this a time to prate to me , now coming into power ? I'le blast all that belongs to thee , and will thy joys devour : I'le Freeze thy pretty bubbling Springs , that by thee us'd to glide , And wither all those lovely things that puff'd thee up in Pride . I'le take possession of thy Bowers , wherein thou didst remain ; And make them swim with floating showers , and mighty Storms of Rain : Yea , where thou us'dst to Both thy self , there Rocks of Ice shall be , Lovers no more shall joy themselves , beneath the Myrtle Tree . Thou Frosty-bearded Winter , I will tell thee once again , Thy mighty Floods i'le quickly dry , and suck up all thy Rain : I'le thaw the Springs which thou dost freeze and guild my Plains once more , I'le cause fresh Leaves upon the Trees , then thou wilt me adore . For couldst thou once thy will obtain , thou wouldst me banish quite , The world should empty be of grain , such is thy deadly spigh No Fruits should then in Europe be , man's Palate for to please , Which makes so many envy thee , for such like tricks as these . I know , fair Flora , that thou art belov'd far more then I , To speak the truth , 'tis thy desert , with thee i'le now comply : Yet must thou give me leave a while , in Power for to remain ; Then thou shalt come again and smile , upon thy flowery Plain . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . FLORA's Departure : OR , Summer's Pride Abated . Cold Winter with his Icy looks bids Flora to be gone , And Both no more in Silver Brooks , for Frost is coming on . The Tune is , Young Phaon : Or , Busy Fame . DAme Flora in her rich Array , to winter now gives room , Who strips her of her Robes so gay , that had such sweet Perfume : He with his Icy Beard comes in , and looking her upon , To greet her thus he does begin , proud Flora now be gone . But Flora loath to leave the Streams , wherein she took delight ; And banish'd be from Cynthia's Beams , but slowly took her fligh Why should I leave the Plains ( quoth she ) that once I made so fine , And decked them most gorgeously , why dost thou call them thine ? Why must I leave the warbling Notes of my beloved Choir , That still would sin within the Woods , what Tune I did desire ? Oh! stay a while , cold Winter , till these pleasures all decline , And when thy Floods the Rivers fill , my pleasures i'le resign . Go , go , proud Flora , post away , make haste and hence begone , Believe me what I now do say , my Floods are coming on : Long time you raign'd in glory here , while I lay lurking by , You in your time did Domineer , so Flora now will I . Old Winter , prithee stay a while , be not so harsh to me ; For thou shouldst never take place , while Leaves are on the Tree . My Company is more esteem'd ten thousand times then thine , For they that once to me are wean'd , will ne'r with thee combine . Is this a time to prate to me , now coming into power ? I'le blast all that belongs to thee , and will thy joys devour : I'le Freeze thy pretty bubbling Springs , that by thee us'd to glide , And wither all those lovely things that puff'd thee up in Pride . I'le take possession of thy Bowers , wherein thou didst remain ; And make them swim with floating showers , and mighty Storms of Rain : Yea , where thou us'dst to Both thy self , there Rocks of Ice shall be , Lovers no more shall joy themselves , beneath the Myrtle Tree . Thou Frosty-bearded Winter , I will tell thee once again , Thy mighty Floods i'le quickly dry , and suck up all thy Rain : I'le thaw the Springs which thou dost freeze and guild my Plains once more , I'le cause fresh Leaves upon the Trees , then thou wilt me adore . For couldst thou once thy will obtain , thou wouldst me banish quite , The world should empty be of grain , such is thy deadly spigh No Fruits should then in Europe be , man's Palate for to please , Which makes so many envy thee , for such like tricks as these . I know , fair Flora , that thou art belov'd far more then I , To speak the truth , 'tis thy desert , with thee i'le now comply : Yet must thou give me leave a while , in Power for to remain ; Then thou shalt come again and smile , upon thy flowery Plain . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 