Tobies Experience Explained : Good Fellows all , whatever you be , I pray take this advice of me : Strength will decay Old age will come , Therefore save something while your youg To the Tune of , That Dill Doul GOod Fellows all I pray draw near , to what I here have lately pend . You'l say 'tis true I do not fear , and take the Author for your friend : For by experiance I have seen ; how Landladys , draw good Fellows in , With prey come in , will not you stay , I have not seen you this many a day . Come Joan , where is our Maid gone ? bring a Chair for this honest man , Come pray fit down you'l stay so long , to smoke a pipe e're you are gone ; Such tricks they have , and ten times worse , to draw the Coin out of your purse With prey Sir stay will you go away , I have not seen you this many a day . And then she'l whisper in your ear , pray Sir , will you drink Ale or Beer , Joan fill a Flagon , of the best , this is my friend , and my old gues And something more I will you tell , you are a man that I love well , And you shall stay , you shall not go away , I have not seen you this many a day . And then perhaps a Maid may be , will come and smile up in your face , And She'l fit down upon your knee , to keep you longer in that place : Then you may kiss , and something more , so long as you have money in store , These are the bates which they do lay , poor honest men for to betray . Some Landladys have god the Gout , they scarce can turn their Arss about , They are so lasy , and so fat , their money is so easily go Some do complain of the Excise , but I am sure that poor trades men pays ; Their measure now is made so short . that we may pay full three pence a quart . A Labouring man must work all day , for meat and one poor sixpence pay , If in and Ale house once he went , how quickly is that sixpence spen Therefore go not into their door , for they are fat enough before , But mind your wife if you have one , and let these fat arse dams alone . Good fellows all that stand here by , will you say this my songs a lie , I think you may confess 'tis true , and so I say as well as you . It is so public to be seen , what tricks they have to draw men in , With prey come in , will not you stay , pray call when you do come this way , How happy might we live and brave , if we our money did but save , And not maintain those Lasy queen's , that never does take any pains : Nor toil , nor wag out of their Cheer , to draw a man a pot of Beer , But call the maid , where is she gone , draw some beer for this honest man . And so I do conclude and end , I pray observe what here is pend , buy one of them both great and small : and put them up against your wall : The price a penny , and that's not dear , 'twill save you two pence in a year . And so I hope you I gain thereby , I end having no more to say . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield Tobies Experience Explained : Good Fellows all , whatever you be , I pray take this advice of me : Strength will decay Old age will come , Therefore save something while your youg To the Tune of , That Dill Doul GOod Fellows all I pray draw near , to what I here have lately pend . You'l say 'tis true I do not fear , and take the Author for your friend : For by experiance I have seen ; how Landladys , draw good Fellows in , With prey come in , will not you stay , I have not seen you this many a day . Come Joan , where is our Maid gone ? bring a Chair for this honest man , Come pray fit down you'l stay so long , to smoke a pipe e're you are gone ; Such tricks they have , and ten times worse , to draw the Coin out of your purse With prey Sir stay will you go away , I have not seen you this many a day . And then she'l whisper in your ear , pray Sir , will you drink Ale or Beer , Joan fill a Flagon , of the best , this is my friend , and my old gues And something more I will you tell , you are a man that I love well , And you shall stay , you shall not go away , I have not seen you this many a day . And then perhaps a Maid may be , will come and smile up in your face , And She'l fit down upon your knee , to keep you longer in that place : Then you may kiss , and something more , so long as you have money in store , These are the bates which they do lay , poor honest men for to betray . Some Landladys have god the Gout , they scarce can turn their Arss about , They are so lasy , and so fat , their money is so easily go Some do complain of the Excise , but I am sure that poor trades men pays ; Their measure now is made so short . that we may pay full three pence a quart . A Labouring man must work all day , for meat and one poor sixpence pay , If in and Ale house once he went , how quickly is that sixpence spen Therefore go not into their door , for they are fat enough before , But mind your wife if you have one , and let these fat arse dams alone . Good fellows all that stand here by , will you say this my songs a lie , I think you may confess 'tis true , and so I say as well as you . It is so public to be seen , what tricks they have to draw men in , With prey come in , will not you stay , pray call when you do come this way , How happy might we live and brave , if we our money did but save , And not maintain those Lasy queen's , that never does take any pains : Nor toil , nor wag out of their Cheer , to draw a man a pot of Beer , But call the maid , where is she gone , draw some beer for this honest man . And so I do conclude and end , I pray observe what here is pend , buy one of them both great and small : and put them up against your wall : The price a penny , and that's not dear , 'twill save you two pence in a year . And so I hope you I gain thereby , I end having no more to say . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield 