The SUCCESS OF THE Two English Travellers , Newly Arrived at LONDON . To and excellent new Irish Tune . AS we was a ranging upon the salt Seas , For France and for Spain , our humours to please ; But when we came there , the first News we did hear , Was , You Rebles of England what do you do here ? When we was a walking along in the Street , Both Men , Wives , and Children , and all we did meet , They gathered up Stones , and at us did fling , Crying , Rebles of England you murther'd your King . All this being odious unto our own hearts , Then from the French we were forc'd to depart ; The French did deride us , with scornful disdain ; We hoist up Topsail , and sailed for Spain . But when we came there , we'd not set foot on Land , But straight they perceiv'd that we were English Men ; With their hands on their Rapiers , their Cloaks off did fling , Crying , Rebles of England , you murther'd your King . All this being odious unto our conceits , We hoist and hastened up into the Straits : Next Port unto Venice , intending to go , Not fearing nor dreading they did of it know . But when we came there , our Ships they did scan , They saw by our Colours we were English Men ; Oh they laugh'd in their Lingo , and at us did fleer , You Rebles of England what do you do here ? Thus twenty Years wandering from Seaport to Town , In all parts abused , resolv'd to turn home : We steer'd up for London , but when we came there , The Court all in Mourning , put us in despair . Then great Charles of England , we found was Interr'd , And some known Offenders in Mourning appear'd ; Who for some Years together , had design'd and swore , To serve him as they did his Father before . Great James of his Birthright they sought to Depose , But now for ten Guinneys you'll find none of those : King James is Established safe in his Throne , And none shall Invade the just Rights of the Crown . And now we'r resolved in Emgland to stay , And wait for to serve , and our King to obey ; And his Royal Consort , Queen Mary's blessed Name ; And we'll drive both the French and the Dutch o're the Main . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Bible and Sun , in Pie-corner . The SUCCESS OF THE Two English Travellers , Newly Arrived at LONDON . To and excellent new Irish Tune . AS we was a ranging upon the salt Seas , For France and for Spain , our humours to please ; But when we came there , the first News we did hear , Was , You Rebles of England what do you do here ? When we was a walking along in the Street , Both Men , Wives , and Children , and all we did meet , They gathered up Stones , and at us did fling , Crying , Rebles of England you murther'd your King . All this being odious unto our own hearts , Then from the French we were forc'd to depart ; The French did deride us , with scornful disdain ; We hoist up Topsail , and sailed for Spain . But when we came there , we'd not set foot on Land , But straight they perceiv'd that we were English Men ; With their hands on their Rapiers , their Cloaks off did fling , Crying , Rebles of England , you murther'd your King . All this being odious unto our conceits , We hoist and hastened up into the Straits : Next Port unto Venice , intending to go , Not fearing nor dreading they did of it know . But when we came there , our Ships they did scan , They saw by our Colours we were English Men ; Oh they laugh'd in their Lingo , and at us did fleer , You Rebles of England what do you do here ? Thus twenty Years wandering from Seaport to Town , In all parts abused , resolv'd to turn home : We steer'd up for London , but when we came there , The Court all in Mourning , put us in despair . Then great Charles of England , we found was Interr'd , And some known Offenders in Mourning appear'd ; Who for some Years together , had design'd and swore , To serve him as they did his Father before . Great James of his Birthright they sought to Depose , But now for ten Guinneys you'll find none of those : King James is Established safe in his Throne , And none shall Invade the just Rights of the Crown . And now we'r resolved in Emgland to stay , And wait for to serve , and our King to obey ; And his Royal Consort , Queen Mary's blessed Name ; And we'll drive both the French and the Dutch o're the Main . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Bible and Sun , in Pie-corner . 