Taylor's Lamentation . Showing how he pick'd up a crafty Miss , who left him sleeping in Bed , and taking his Clothes , Watch and Money , so that he was forc'd to send for his Wife , which added much to his grief . To the Tune of the Old men Wish . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Taylor now in Distress , Who to the World must freely confess , That I am fairly serv'd in my kind , As by the sequal you shall find . I have a fair Young Wife of my own , Yet I am Courting every Joan ; Many a Pound on them have I spent , But at the last I Sighs and Lament . Listen a while and I will unfold , As sad a Tale as ever was told , Surely the like you never did hear , Therefore I pray be pleas'd to draw near . As I was walking thorrough Pellmell , Where a Young Lord and Lady did dwell , With a New Garment under my Arm , Thinking Alas ! no manner of harm . There a young Lass I happen'd to meet , Tempted I was to give her a Treat , Then to a Tavern strait I did go , This was but the beginning of Woe . She for the best Canary did call , I was oblig'd to pay for it all , Seeking Alas ! for pleasant delight , I was resolv'd to tarry all night . Then the Young Tib did cunningly say , Sir , If you are right willing to stay ? I have a Chamber here of my own , Where we may Kiss and Dally alone ? Such a kind Proffer , who cou'd refuse ; But I was fairly catch'd in a noose , The naked truth I will not deny , Taylor was ne'er so cheated as I . Now when the Night was dalli'd away , Just before Morning break of the day , She 'rose and left me snoring in Bed : Oh! I lament the life I have led . There did she seize my delicate Suit , Likewise my Watch and Money to boot , Thus she did fairly make up her pack , Leaving me not a Suit to my back . When I awoke and found she was gone , Missing my Clothes , Oh! how I took on ; But yet Alas ! it was but in vain , For I shall never see 'em again . Sobbing and likewise Sighing I lay , Knowing there was the Reckoning to pay , I had no Coin , nor Garments to wear , How to get home , Alas ! was my care . Yet after all to finish the Strife , Forced I was to send for my Wife ; When she came in , she rang me a Peal , Ay , and her fist she forc'd me to feel : Sirrah ( said she , ) if this be the trade ? You shall a sad example be made : There did she ring me still by the Ears , Till I Alas ! was bitter in Tears . There with her fist my Face she did maul , Till I at length was forced to fallen Down on my Knees , her love to obtain , Vowing I'd ne'er offend her again . Rascal ( said she ) I'll pardon the now ? If that this day , you solemnly vow To be obedient still to your wife ; Yes , if you please to spare but my life . Ever since then she bears such a sway , That I am forc'd her Laws to obey . She is the Cock and I am the Hen , This is my case , Oh! pity me then . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . Taylor's Lamentation . Showing how he pick'd up a crafty Miss , who left him sleeping in Bed , and taking his Clothes , Watch and Money , so that he was forc'd to send for his Wife , which added much to his grief . To the Tune of the Old men Wish . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Taylor now in Distress , Who to the World must freely confess , That I am fairly serv'd in my kind , As by the sequal you shall find . I have a fair Young Wife of my own , Yet I am Courting every Joan ; Many a Pound on them have I spent , But at the last I Sighs and Lament . Listen a while and I will unfold , As sad a Tale as ever was told , Surely the like you never did hear , Therefore I pray be pleas'd to draw near . As I was walking thorrough Pellmell , Where a Young Lord and Lady did dwell , With a New Garment under my Arm , Thinking Alas ! no manner of harm . There a young Lass I happen'd to meet , Tempted I was to give her a Treat , Then to a Tavern strait I did go , This was but the beginning of Woe . She for the best Canary did call , I was oblig'd to pay for it all , Seeking Alas ! for pleasant delight , I was resolv'd to tarry all night . Then the Young Tib did cunningly say , Sir , If you are right willing to stay ? I have a Chamber here of my own , Where we may Kiss and Dally alone ? Such a kind Proffer , who cou'd refuse ; But I was fairly catch'd in a noose , The naked truth I will not deny , Taylor was ne'er so cheated as I . Now when the Night was dalli'd away , Just before Morning break of the day , She 'rose and left me snoring in Bed : Oh! I lament the life I have led . There did she seize my delicate Suit , Likewise my Watch and Money to boot , Thus she did fairly make up her pack , Leaving me not a Suit to my back . When I awoke and found she was gone , Missing my Clothes , Oh! how I took on ; But yet Alas ! it was but in vain , For I shall never see 'em again . Sobbing and likewise Sighing I lay , Knowing there was the Reckoning to pay , I had no Coin , nor Garments to wear , How to get home , Alas ! was my care . Yet after all to finish the Strife , Forced I was to send for my Wife ; When she came in , she rang me a Peal , Ay , and her fist she forc'd me to feel : Sirrah ( said she , ) if this be the trade ? You shall a sad example be made : There did she ring me still by the Ears , Till I Alas ! was bitter in Tears . There with her fist my Face she did maul , Till I at length was forced to fallen Down on my Knees , her love to obtain , Vowing I'd ne'er offend her again . Rascal ( said she ) I'll pardon the now ? If that this day , you solemnly vow To be obedient still to your wife ; Yes , if you please to spare but my life . Ever since then she bears such a sway , That I am forc'd her Laws to obey . She is the Cock and I am the Hen , This is my case , Oh! pity me then . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . 