Tom Farthing : OR , The Married Woman's Complaint . To a New Tune , well known by the same Name . TOm Farthing , Tom Farthing , Where hast thou been ? Tom Farthing ? Twelve a clock e're thou come in , Four or five e're thou begin , Lie all night and do nothing , 'Twould make a woman weary , weary , 'Twould make a woman weary . Hadst thou been a lively Lad , And gi'n me part of what thoud'st had , It would have made my heart full glad : And made me wondrous merry , merry , And made , etc But thou art a Country clown , Sometime up and sometime down ; Still doing what was never yet done , 'Twould make a woman , sorry , sorry , 'Twould , etc Tom Farthing , Tom Farthing , Thou bungler art , Tom Farthing , Was ever Woman fumbled so , With always bobbing too and from , Now too high , and now too low , 'Twould make a woman weary , weary , 'Twould etc If thou hadst but held me to't , With hip and lip , and leg and foot , Beside the other thing to boot , 'Twould have made me wondrous merry , merry , 'Twould , etc But rivel'd up like Chitterlin , Thou'rt sometime out and , sometime in And all thou dost's not worth a pin , Which makes me wondrous sorry , sorry , Which makes me wondrous sorry . The second Part , to the same Tune . TOm Farthing , Tom Farthing , Thou mak'st me mad , Tom Farthing , 'Twas not for this I did thee wed , Nor brought thee to my marriage bed , But 'twas to loose my Maidenhead , Of which i'm wondrous weary , weary , Of which I am wondrous weary . Could'st thou once but doe the feat , And show thy self to be no cheat , My very heart with joy would beatrice , And 'twould make me wondrous merry , merry , And etc But by thy side thou idle droan , I lie like one that lies alone , And remedy I can get none , Which makes me wondrous sorry sorry , Which makes me wondrous sorry . Tom Farthing , Tom Farthing , Farewell , farewell , Tom Farthing , Since by thee it can't be done , I'le now go pick of another's bone , For meat from thee I can get none , Which makes me wondrous weary , weary Which etc And though a Woman's such , you cry , That no one can her wants supply , I'le find out one shall satisfy ; And make me wondrous merry , merry , And , etc For since thou never yet hast don't I'le bid no more , a pox upon't , But venture let what will come on't , And never more be sorry sorry , And etc , Tom Farthing , Tom Farthing , A warning be Tom Farthing , Henceforward that no woman take , A Fumbler for Tom Farthings sake : Unless she will him Cuckold make , For he'l make her damnable wearry , weary For he'l make , etc But if a Husband must be had , Try him first or else you'r mad , Then should he prove a capering Lad , He'l make you wondrous merry , merry , And of him you'l ne'r be weary . FINIS . Printed for P. Prooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . Tom Farthing : OR , The Married Woman's Complaint . To a New Tune , well known by the same Name . TOm Farthing , Tom Farthing , Where hast thou been ? Tom Farthing ? Twelve a clock e're thou come in , Four or five e're thou begin , Lie all night and do nothing , 'Twould make a woman weary , weary , 'Twould make a woman weary . Hadst thou been a lively Lad , And gi'n me part of what thoud'st had , It would have made my heart full glad : And made me wondrous merry , merry , And made , etc But thou art a Country clown , Sometime up and sometime down ; Still doing what was never yet done , 'Twould make a woman , sorry , sorry , 'Twould , etc Tom Farthing , Tom Farthing , Thou bungler art , Tom Farthing , Was ever Woman fumbled so , With always bobbing too and from , Now too high , and now too low , 'Twould make a woman weary , weary , 'Twould etc If thou hadst but held me to't , With hip and lip , and leg and foot , Beside the other thing to boot , 'Twould have made me wondrous merry , merry , 'Twould , etc But rivel'd up like Chitterlin , Thou'rt sometime out and , sometime in And all thou dost's not worth a pin , Which makes me wondrous sorry , sorry , Which makes me wondrous sorry . The second Part , to the same Tune . TOm Farthing , Tom Farthing , Thou mak'st me mad , Tom Farthing , 'Twas not for this I did thee wed , Nor brought thee to my marriage bed , But 'twas to loose my Maidenhead , Of which i'm wondrous weary , weary , Of which I am wondrous weary . Could'st thou once but doe the feat , And show thy self to be no cheat , My very heart with joy would beatrice , And 'twould make me wondrous merry , merry , And etc But by thy side thou idle droan , I lie like one that lies alone , And remedy I can get none , Which makes me wondrous sorry sorry , Which makes me wondrous sorry . Tom Farthing , Tom Farthing , Farewell , farewell , Tom Farthing , Since by thee it can't be done , I'le now go pick of another's bone , For meat from thee I can get none , Which makes me wondrous weary , weary Which etc And though a Woman's such , you cry , That no one can her wants supply , I'le find out one shall satisfy ; And make me wondrous merry , merry , And , etc For since thou never yet hast don't I'le bid no more , a pox upon't , But venture let what will come on't , And never more be sorry sorry , And etc , Tom Farthing , Tom Farthing , A warning be Tom Farthing , Henceforward that no woman take , A Fumbler for Tom Farthings sake : Unless she will him Cuckold make , For he'l make her damnable wearry , weary For he'l make , etc But if a Husband must be had , Try him first or else you'r mad , Then should he prove a capering Lad , He'l make you wondrous merry , merry , And of him you'l ne'r be weary . FINIS . Printed for P. Prooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 