Love and Constancy OR The true Lovers welcome home from France , Describing of the joy and friendly greeting , Betwixt two Lovers at their happy meeting , By cruel Fate long time they were divided , But to their comfort now they are united , Which makes them to rejoice beyond expression , As you may find by both their own confession . Tune of , Digby's farewell , or the Tyrant etc With Allowance . The Maids part . COme all loyal Lovers so courteous and free , come lend your attention and listen to me , With gladness my heart does abound at this tide now I am in hope's that I shall be a bride : Long time I have waited with patience to see [ ; ] the face of my dearest so pleasing to me , And now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . Then welcome my dearest my joy india delight , no more to the Wars shalt thou go for to fight , My arms shall secure thee from dangers so free thrice welcome my true Love thou art unto me . Full often I wish't for to see thee again , while I with a sorrowful heart did remain , But now for my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . SInce that thou didst leave me to languish & mourn , I like the chaste Turtle did wait thy return , The choicest of company could me not please , whilst thou wer't in danger beyond the salt Seas , To listen for tidings it was my chief care , and all for to hear how my Dearest did fare . But now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . What maiden in England more happy can be , now my hearts delight is from dangers set free , No grief nor no sorrow shall trouble my mind , provided that thou will be constant and kind , I'le please thee in all things that thou canst desire , nothing shall be wanting that thou dost require , For now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return [ ' ] worser out of France . And now my own dearest take heart and take hand for I am resolved to obey thy command ; Therefore speak thy pleasure and utter thy mind , thou can'st not be cruel when I am so kind , Be sure in thy answer thy love to unfold , which will be more welcome then silver or gold , Since now for my comfort my joys to advance , My love he is safely return'd out of France . The young men kind Answer : Oh how it rejoiceth my heart for to hear , this loving kind welcome from my dearest dear , No happiness greater could fallen to my share , therefore my true meaning i'le freely declare , To thee i'le prove constant what ever betide , and in a short time I will make thee my bride , The same etc For all thy past sorrow thy pain and thy grief , I now am come over to bring the relief , I'le throw in thy apron of good yellow gold , a hundred good pieces as ever was told , Beside i'le maintain thee most bravely indeed , no one in the Parish thy garb shall exceed , The fame of thy thy beauty likewise i'le advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . My sword and my armour I now will cast by , to live in true pleasure with thee till I die , Thou shalt be my Venus with whom I will play , and walk in the meadows on each holy day , Young Ladies shall envy thy happiness now , that I have been constant and kept to my vow , Beside i'le endeaver thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . The young men and maidens shall frolic & play , and dance at our wedding the next holiday , Wee'l have good provision of wine and good cheer , and like to the Queen of May thou shalt appear , Rare Music i'le have for to lighten thy heart , and for to content thee i'le use my best Art , For now isle endeavour thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . Then come my own dearest and give me a kiss , now we are united I count i [ tO ] a bliss , And here for the present accept of this Ring , ere long I will please thee with a better thing , I'le make it my business in time to provide , and at our next meeting i'le make thee my bride , For now i'me resolv'd thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return [ ' ] worser out of France . FINIS . London , Printed for John Hose over against Staple-Inn in Holbourn near Grayes Inn-lane . Love and Constancy OR The true Lovers welcome home from France , Describing of the joy and friendly greeting , Betwixt two Lovers at their happy meeting , By cruel Fate long time they were divided , But to their comfort now they are united , Which makes them to rejoice beyond expression , As you may find by both their own confession . Tune of , Digby's farewell , or the Tyrant etc With Allowance . The Maids part . COme all loyal Lovers so courteous and free , come lend your attention and listen to me , With gladness my heart does abound at this tide now I am in hope's that I shall be a bride : Long time I have waited with patience to see [ ; ] the face of my dearest so pleasing to me , And now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . Then welcome my dearest my joy india delight , no more to the Wars shalt thou go for to fight , My arms shall secure thee from dangers so free thrice welcome my true Love thou art unto me . Full often I wish't for to see thee again , while I with a sorrowful heart did remain , But now for my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . SInce that thou didst leave me to languish & mourn , I like the chaste Turtle did wait thy return , The choicest of company could me not please , whilst thou wer't in danger beyond the salt Seas , To listen for tidings it was my chief care , and all for to hear how my Dearest did fare . But now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . What maiden in England more happy can be , now my hearts delight is from dangers set free , No grief nor no sorrow shall trouble my mind , provided that thou will be constant and kind , I'le please thee in all things that thou canst desire , nothing shall be wanting that thou dost require , For now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return [ ' ] worser out of France . And now my own dearest take heart and take hand for I am resolved to obey thy command ; Therefore speak thy pleasure and utter thy mind , thou can'st not be cruel when I am so kind , Be sure in thy answer thy love to unfold , which will be more welcome then silver or gold , Since now for my comfort my joys to advance , My love he is safely return'd out of France . The young men kind Answer : Oh how it rejoiceth my heart for to hear , this loving kind welcome from my dearest dear , No happiness greater could fallen to my share , therefore my true meaning i'le freely declare , To thee i'le prove constant what ever betide , and in a short time I will make thee my bride , The same etc For all thy past sorrow thy pain and thy grief , I now am come over to bring the relief , I'le throw in thy apron of good yellow gold , a hundred good pieces as ever was told , Beside i'le maintain thee most bravely indeed , no one in the Parish thy garb shall exceed , The fame of thy thy beauty likewise i'le advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . My sword and my armour I now will cast by , to live in true pleasure with thee till I die , Thou shalt be my Venus with whom I will play , and walk in the meadows on each holy day , Young Ladies shall envy thy happiness now , that I have been constant and kept to my vow , Beside i'le endeaver thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . The young men and maidens shall frolic & play , and dance at our wedding the next holiday , Wee'l have good provision of wine and good cheer , and like to the Queen of May thou shalt appear , Rare Music i'le have for to lighten thy heart , and for to content thee i'le use my best Art , For now isle endeavour thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . Then come my own dearest and give me a kiss , now we are united I count i [ tO ] a bliss , And here for the present accept of this Ring , ere long I will please thee with a better thing , I'le make it my business in time to provide , and at our next meeting i'le make thee my bride , For now i'me resolv'd thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return [ ' ] worser out of France . FINIS . London , Printed for John Hose over against Staple-Inn in Holbourn near Grayes Inn-lane . Love and Constancy OR The true Lovers welcome home from France , Describing of the joy and friendly greeting , Betwixt two Lovers at their happy meeting , By cruel Fate long time they were divided , But to their comfort now they are united , Which makes them to rejoice beyond expression , As you may find by both their own confession . Tune of , Digby's farewell , or the Tyrant etc With Allowance . The Maids part . COme all loyal Lovers so courteous and free , come lend your attention and listen to me , With gladness my heart does abound at this tide now I am in hope's that I shall be a bride : Long time I have waited with patience to see [ ; ] the face of my dearest so pleasing to me , And now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . Then welcome my dearest my joy india delight , no more to the Wars shalt thou go for to fight , My arms shall secure thee from dangers so free thrice welcome my true Love thou art unto me . Full often I wish't for to see thee again , while I with a sorrowful heart did remain , But now for my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . SInce that thou didst leave me to languish & mourn , I like the chaste Turtle did wait thy return , The choicest of company could me not please , whilst thou wer't in danger beyond the salt Seas , To listen for tidings it was my chief care , and all for to hear how my Dearest did fare . But now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . What maiden in England more happy can be , now my hearts delight is from dangers set free , No grief nor no sorrow shall trouble my mind , provided that thou will be constant and kind , I'le please thee in all things that thou canst desire , nothing shall be wanting that thou dost require , For now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return [ ' ] worser out of France . And now my own dearest take heart and take hand for I am resolved to obey thy command ; Therefore speak thy pleasure and utter thy mind , thou can'st not be cruel when I am so kind , Be sure in thy answer thy love to unfold , which will be more welcome then silver or gold , Since now for my comfort my joys to advance , My love he is safely return'd out of France . The young men kind Answer : Oh how it rejoiceth my heart for to hear , this loving kind welcome from my dearest dear , No happiness greater could fallen to my share , therefore my true meaning i'le freely declare , To thee i'le prove constant what ever betide , and in a short time I will make thee my bride , The same etc For all thy past sorrow thy pain and thy grief , I now am come over to bring the relief , I'le throw in thy apron of good yellow gold , a hundred good pieces as ever was told , Beside i'le maintain thee most bravely indeed , no one in the Parish thy garb shall exceed , The fame of thy thy beauty likewise i'le advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . My sword and my armour I now will cast by , to live in true pleasure with thee till I die , Thou shalt be my Venus with whom I will play , and walk in the meadows on each holy day , Young Ladies shall envy thy happiness now , that I have been constant and kept to my vow , Beside i'le endeaver thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . The young men and maidens shall frolic & play , and dance at our wedding the next holiday , Wee'l have good provision of wine and good cheer , and like to the Queen of May thou shalt appear , Rare Music i'le have for to lighten thy heart , and for to content thee i'le use my best Art , For now isle endeavour thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . Then come my own dearest and give me a kiss , now we are united I count i [ tO ] a bliss , And here for the present accept of this Ring , ere long I will please thee with a better thing , I'le make it my business in time to provide , and at our next meeting i'le make thee my bride , For now i'me resolv'd thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return [ ' ] worser out of France . FINIS . London , Printed for John Hose over against Staple-Inn in Holbourn near Grayes Inn-lane . Love and Constancy OR The true Lovers welcome home from France , Describing of the joy and friendly greeting , Betwixt two Lovers at their happy meeting , By cruel Fate long time they were divided , But to their comfort now they are united , Which makes them to rejoice beyond expression , As you may find by both their own confession . Tune of , Digby's farewell , or the Tyrant etc With Allowance . The Maids part . COme all loyal Lovers so courteous and free , come lend your attention and listen to me , With gladness my heart does abound at this tide now I am in hope's that I shall be a bride : Long time I have waited with patience to see [ ; ] the face of my dearest so pleasing to me , And now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . Then welcome my dearest my joy india delight , no more to the Wars shalt thou go for to fight , My arms shall secure thee from dangers so free thrice welcome my true Love thou art unto me . Full often I wish't for to see thee again , while I with a sorrowful heart did remain , But now for my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . SInce that thou didst leave me to languish & mourn , I like the chaste Turtle did wait thy return , The choicest of company could me not please , whilst thou wer't in danger beyond the salt Seas , To listen for tidings it was my chief care , and all for to hear how my Dearest did fare . But now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return'd out of France . What maiden in England more happy can be , now my hearts delight is from dangers set free , No grief nor no sorrow shall trouble my mind , provided that thou will be constant and kind , I'le please thee in all things that thou canst desire , nothing shall be wanting that thou dost require , For now to my comfort my joys to advance , My Love he is safely return [ ' ] worser out of France . And now my own dearest take heart and take hand for I am resolved to obey thy command ; Therefore speak thy pleasure and utter thy mind , thou can'st not be cruel when I am so kind , Be sure in thy answer thy love to unfold , which will be more welcome then silver or gold , Since now for my comfort my joys to advance , My love he is safely return'd out of France . The young men kind Answer : Oh how it rejoiceth my heart for to hear , this loving kind welcome from my dearest dear , No happiness greater could fallen to my share , therefore my true meaning i'le freely declare , To thee i'le prove constant what ever betide , and in a short time I will make thee my bride , The same etc For all thy past sorrow thy pain and thy grief , I now am come over to bring the relief , I'le throw in thy apron of good yellow gold , a hundred good pieces as ever was told , Beside i'le maintain thee most bravely indeed , no one in the Parish thy garb shall exceed , The fame of thy thy beauty likewise i'le advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . My sword and my armour I now will cast by , to live in true pleasure with thee till I die , Thou shalt be my Venus with whom I will play , and walk in the meadows on each holy day , Young Ladies shall envy thy happiness now , that I have been constant and kept to my vow , Beside i'le endeaver thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . The young men and maidens shall frolic & play , and dance at our wedding the next holiday , Wee'l have good provision of wine and good cheer , and like to the Queen of May thou shalt appear , Rare Music i'le have for to lighten thy heart , and for to content thee i'le use my best Art , For now isle endeavour thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return'd out of France . Then come my own dearest and give me a kiss , now we are united I count i [ tO ] a bliss , And here for the present accept of this Ring , ere long I will please thee with a better thing , I'le make it my business in time to provide , and at our next meeting i'le make thee my bride , For now i'me resolv'd thy joys to advance , Since that I am safely return [ ' ] worser out of France . FINIS . London , Printed for John Hose over against Staple-Inn in Holbourn near Grayes Inn-lane . 