THE THREE Buxom Maids of Yoel : OR , The Pleasant Entreague betwixt them and a Country Sive-maker , who left them a large Reckoning to pay for their Pissing in the Sive . To the Tune of , The Guinny wins her . Licensed according to Order . PRay listen to this Ditty , for it will make you merry , Three Lasses fair and pretty , was treated with canary , In Yoel by a loving Friend , Who , it seems , did cry , Old Sives to mend ; a jolly bonny Blade , and as he cry'd his trade , it was his chance to meet , these Lasses in the street , which he resolv'd to tread With wine , for they were buxom , brisk and fine . The first was mincing Sarah , the second buxom Betty , The third young modest Marry , all Lasses fair and pretty ; With him they to a Tavern went , For to spend the day in sweet content ; the Sive-maker and they , would frolic , sport and play , and call for liquour store , making the Tavern roar ; the Sive-maker he swore That he , would tickle them above the knee . Brisk Betty did not fear him , but bid him use his pleasurr , And straight she sat down near him , he kissed her out of measure ; At which young Sarah seem'd to frown , And her tears in sorrow trickl'd down , because he kissed her first , who was the very worst ; But pretty Girls , said he , let's lovingly agree , and do not press on me So fast , I'll serve you all alike at last . Quoth Marry , I admire your tender kind embraces , It hithtens our desire , when we are joining faces ; By true experience this I know , Therefore I declare before we go , the Sive-maker shall be , both loving , kind and free . Sweet Lasses , he reply'd , nothing shall be deny'd , if with a flowing tide You'll fill , this Sive here with your water-mill . Bess knew it must be vented , she was not for denying , The rest likewise consented , their floodgates they let flying ; He held the Sive , they pour'd it in , Betty's engine play'd above his chin , and blinded both his eyes , he in a passion cries , I can't endure the smart , it cuts me to the heart ; with that he did depart Away , and left them all the shot to pay . They laughed to see him scour , and call'd for more canary , Then waiting there and hour , at length quoth modest Mary , I fear that he will come no more , Therefore let us call to know the score ; to this they straight agreed , the Drawer came with speed , and cry'd without delay , you must ten shillings pay , before you go your way , 'Tis true , this made the Lasses all look blew . Tho' joys they had been reaping , yet seeing they were worsted , Poor Girls , they feel a weeping , and wanted to be trusted ; The Drawer he began to rave , He would present satisfaction have ; they having then no stock , each Damsel pawn'd her smock , which was of dowlas fine , to pay for bred and wine , then went away at nine , And swore , they'd never piss in Sives no more . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . THE THREE Buxom Maids of Yoel : OR , The Pleasant Entreague betwixt them and a Country Sive-maker , who left them a large Reckoning to pay for their Pissing in the Sive . To the Tune of , The Guinny wins her . Licensed according to Order . PRay listen to this Ditty , for it will make you merry , Three Lasses fair and pretty , was treated with canary , In Yoel by a loving Friend , Who , it seems , did cry , Old Sives to mend ; a jolly bonny Blade , and as he cry'd his trade , it was his chance to meet , these Lasses in the street , which he resolv'd to tread With wine , for they were buxom , brisk and fine . The first was mincing Sarah , the second buxom Betty , The third young modest Marry , all Lasses fair and pretty ; With him they to a Tavern went , For to spend the day in sweet content ; the Sive-maker and they , would frolic , sport and play , and call for liquour store , making the Tavern roar ; the Sive-maker he swore That he , would tickle them above the knee . Brisk Betty did not fear him , but bid him use his pleasurr , And straight she sat down near him , he kissed her out of measure ; At which young Sarah seem'd to frown , And her tears in sorrow trickl'd down , because he kissed her first , who was the very worst ; But pretty Girls , said he , let's lovingly agree , and do not press on me So fast , I'll serve you all alike at last . Quoth Marry , I admire your tender kind embraces , It hithtens our desire , when we are joining faces ; By true experience this I know , Therefore I declare before we go , the Sive-maker shall be , both loving , kind and free . Sweet Lasses , he reply'd , nothing shall be deny'd , if with a flowing tide You'll fill , this Sive here with your water-mill . Bess knew it must be vented , she was not for denying , The rest likewise consented , their floodgates they let flying ; He held the Sive , they pour'd it in , Betty's engine play'd above his chin , and blinded both his eyes , he in a passion cries , I can't endure the smart , it cuts me to the heart ; with that he did depart Away , and left them all the shot to pay . They laughed to see him scour , and call'd for more canary , Then waiting there and hour , at length quoth modest Mary , I fear that he will come no more , Therefore let us call to know the score ; to this they straight agreed , the Drawer came with speed , and cry'd without delay , you must ten shillings pay , before you go your way , 'Tis true , this made the Lasses all look blew . Tho' joys they had been reaping , yet seeing they were worsted , Poor Girls , they feel a weeping , and wanted to be trusted ; The Drawer he began to rave , He would present satisfaction have ; they having then no stock , each Damsel pawn'd her smock , which was of dowlas fine , to pay for bred and wine , then went away at nine , And swore , they'd never piss in Sives no more . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 