Loves lamentable Tragedy ; When Cruel Lovers prove unkind , Great sorrows they procure ; And such strange pains the slighted find , that they cannot endure . To a Pleasant New Playhouse Tune . TEnder hearts of London City , now be mov'd with grief and pity , since by love I am undone ; Now I languish , in mine anguish , too too soon my heart was wone By him I am strangely slighted , In whom I so long delighted , he unkindly shows disdain ; And my grief is past relief , alas ! my heart will break with pain Damon you my passion knew well , How then could you be so cruel ? first my heart to set on fire ; Then to leave me and deceive me , when I granted your desire , Come and see me as I'm lying , Bleeding for your sake and dying , yet my Ghost shall trouble you , When I depart , with broken heart , then all your comforts bid adieu . Thou shalt never be contented , But by night and day tormented since thou wertenberg so false to me : Celea dying , thus lay crying , I will be a plague to thee . Down her Cheeks the tears did trickle , Blaming Damon too too fickle ; till her tender heart was broke ; Discontented , thus she fainted , yielding to Death's fatal stroke . When this news to him was carried , All his joys were spoyl'd and marred , and his heart was fill'd with pain ; Still expressing , what a blessing , he had lost by his disdain . The Young-man's Answer . Oh! you powers be kind unto me , Else my sorrows will undo me , I am so perplexed in mind ; I deny'd her , and defy'd her , that was loving , chaste and kind . Now methinks I'm strangely daunted By her Ghost I shall be haunted , wheresoever I do go , I shall see her , mine own dear , since I wrought her overthrow [ ; ] Thus he pausing stood , and thinking , Looking as if he were sinking , while his countenance grew pale , Death come ease me , quickly seize me , for methinks my Spirit fail . In his conscience he was wounded , And his senses were confounded , tears ran trickling from his Eye ; But his sorrow , pierc'd him thorough , then he vow'd for love to die . Then his joints began to shiver , Straight he walks unto the River . there to built his watery Tomb , Often crying , and replying , Celia now I come , I come . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order Printed for J. Deacon . at the Angel in Gilded - spur-street . Loves lamentable Tragedy ; When Cruel Lovers prove unkind , Great sorrows they procure ; And such strange pains the slighted find , that they cannot endure . To a Pleasant New Playhouse Tune . TEnder hearts of London City , now be mov'd with grief and pity , since by love I am undone ; Now I languish , in mine anguish , too too soon my heart was wone By him I am strangely slighted , In whom I so long delighted , he unkindly shows disdain ; And my grief is past relief , alas ! my heart will break with pain Damon you my passion knew well , How then could you be so cruel ? first my heart to set on fire ; Then to leave me and deceive me , when I granted your desire , Come and see me as I'm lying , Bleeding for your sake and dying , yet my Ghost shall trouble you , When I depart , with broken heart , then all your comforts bid adieu . Thou shalt never be contented , But by night and day tormented since thou wertenberg so false to me : Celea dying , thus lay crying , I will be a plague to thee . Down her Cheeks the tears did trickle , Blaming Damon too too fickle ; till her tender heart was broke ; Discontented , thus she fainted , yielding to Death's fatal stroke . When this news to him was carried , All his joys were spoyl'd and marred , and his heart was fill'd with pain ; Still expressing , what a blessing , he had lost by his disdain . The Young-man's Answer . Oh! you powers be kind unto me , Else my sorrows will undo me , I am so perplexed in mind ; I deny'd her , and defy'd her , that was loving , chaste and kind . Now methinks I'm strangely daunted By her Ghost I shall be haunted , wheresoever I do go , I shall see her , mine own dear , since I wrought her overthrow [ ; ] Thus he pausing stood , and thinking , Looking as if he were sinking , while his countenance grew pale , Death come ease me , quickly seize me , for methinks my Spirit fail . In his conscience he was wounded , And his senses were confounded , tears ran trickling from his Eye ; But his sorrow , pierc'd him thorough , then he vow'd for love to die . Then his joints began to shiver , Straight he walks unto the River . there to built his watery Tomb , Often crying , and replying , Celia now I come , I come . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order Printed for J. Deacon . at the Angel in Gilded - spur-street . Loves lamentable Tragedy ; When Cruel Lovers prove unkind , Great sorrows they procure ; And such strange pains the slighted find , that they cannot endure . To a Pleasant New Playhouse Tune . TEnder hearts of London City , now be mov'd with grief and pity , since by love I am undone ; Now I languish , in mine anguish , too too soon my heart was wone By him I am strangely slighted , In whom I so long delighted , he unkindly shows disdain ; And my grief is past relief , alas ! my heart will break with pain Damon you my passion knew well , How then could you be so cruel ? first my heart to set on fire ; Then to leave me and deceive me , when I granted your desire , Come and see me as I'm lying , Bleeding for your sake and dying , yet my Ghost shall trouble you , When I depart , with broken heart , then all your comforts bid adieu . Thou shalt never be contented , But by night and day tormented since thou wertenberg so false to me : Celea dying , thus lay crying , I will be a plague to thee . Down her Cheeks the tears did trickle , Blaming Damon too too fickle ; till her tender heart was broke ; Discontented , thus she fainted , yielding to Death's fatal stroke . When this news to him was carried , All his joys were spoyl'd and marred , and his heart was fill'd with pain ; Still expressing , what a blessing , he had lost by his disdain . The Young-man's Answer . Oh! you powers be kind unto me , Else my sorrows will undo me , I am so perplexed in mind ; I deny'd her , and defy'd her , that was loving , chaste and kind . Now methinks I'm strangely daunted By her Ghost I shall be haunted , wheresoever I do go , I shall see her , mine own dear , since I wrought her overthrow [ ; ] Thus he pausing stood , and thinking , Looking as if he were sinking , while his countenance grew pale , Death come ease me , quickly seize me , for methinks my Spirit fail . In his conscience he was wounded , And his senses were confounded , tears ran trickling from his Eye ; But his sorrow , pierc'd him thorough , then he vow'd for love to die . Then his joints began to shiver , Straight he walks unto the River . there to built his watery Tomb , Often crying , and replying , Celia now I come , I come . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order Printed for J. Deacon . at the Angel in Gilded - spur-street . Loves lamentable Tragedy ; When Cruel Lovers prove unkind , Great sorrows they procure ; And such strange pains the slighted find , that they cannot endure . To a Pleasant New Playhouse Tune . TEnder hearts of London City , now be mov'd with grief and pity , since by love I am undone ; Now I languish , in mine anguish , too too soon my heart was wone By him I am strangely slighted , In whom I so long delighted , he unkindly shows disdain ; And my grief is past relief , alas ! my heart will break with pain Damon you my passion knew well , How then could you be so cruel ? first my heart to set on fire ; Then to leave me and deceive me , when I granted your desire , Come and see me as I'm lying , Bleeding for your sake and dying , yet my Ghost shall trouble you , When I depart , with broken heart , then all your comforts bid adieu . Thou shalt never be contented , But by night and day tormented since thou wertenberg so false to me : Celea dying , thus lay crying , I will be a plague to thee . Down her Cheeks the tears did trickle , Blaming Damon too too fickle ; till her tender heart was broke ; Discontented , thus she fainted , yielding to Death's fatal stroke . When this news to him was carried , All his joys were spoyl'd and marred , and his heart was fill'd with pain ; Still expressing , what a blessing , he had lost by his disdain . The Young-man's Answer . Oh! you powers be kind unto me , Else my sorrows will undo me , I am so perplexed in mind ; I deny'd her , and defy'd her , that was loving , chaste and kind . Now methinks I'm strangely daunted By her Ghost I shall be haunted , wheresoever I do go , I shall see her , mine own dear , since I wrought her overthrow [ ; ] Thus he pausing stood , and thinking , Looking as if he were sinking , while his countenance grew pale , Death come ease me , quickly seize me , for methinks my Spirit fail . In his conscience he was wounded , And his senses were confounded , tears ran trickling from his Eye ; But his sorrow , pierc'd him thorough , then he vow'd for love to die . Then his joints began to shiver , Straight he walks unto the River . there to built his watery Tomb , Often crying , and replying , Celia now I come , I come . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order Printed for J. Deacon . at the Angel in Gilded - spur-street . 