The Troubles of these Times OR , The Calamities of our English Nation , Makes many a heart soar sad , and out of Fashion , Which is a trouble and grief to all , There's many a man in danger for to fallen , But it is our Sins that causes this to be , That brings this Trouble , and this Misery , Lets pray to the Lord , our Nation to defend , And all English people Strive their lives to mend , And not to take so much the Lords Name in Vain , We must look for Judgments for the very same . To the Tune of , A Lesson for all true Christians . POor England now is full of Care and Grief , To see the Wars among us for to be so brief ; It makes all People they know not what to do , They are so full of care the truth is so . Trading is down , there's little to be god , The poorer sort they are very hard put too't , To maintain their Charge and children in their need , To see them want will make their hearts to bleed . There's many plaints , there's little for to do , They walk up and down , so heavily they go , They know not what to think , or how to tell ; But it is the Lord that can make all be well . Let us pray to the Lord then with a tender heart , There is nothing better that can take our part ; 'Tis not the Arm of flesh can do us wrong , If the Lord be with us , who can hurt us than . But the pride o'th Nation has been very soar , Now we must suffer for it to be sure ; The poorer sort of People abides the smart , But a true Believer in God is the best part . It's not the strength of Armed Men be sure , That can relieve us , or make us secure , It's the Lord from Heaven that must be our friend , To bring Peace and quietness in England again . And we our selves be in mighty care , To live uprightly , and the Lord to fear ; The Sins o'th Nation to the Lord does cry , Makes all these Troubles on this Land to lie . Therefore we had need to pray then Night and Day , To defend us from the Sword then every way ; The War and Sword brings Famine at the length , If it hold long in bloody force and strength . We know not what this may come to at last , Or how this trouble will be overpast , But the Lord above , He's in Heaven still , Let all be done unto His Blessed Will . For if these troubles do continue Long , There's many Thousand will be clear undone ; But the Lord he does know best then what to do , If we can be careful our sins for to forgo . We desire that love among us may increase , And grant our Nation a true happy Peace , What a comfort that would be , if the Lord be pleas'd , That of this War our Nation could be eas'd . If it hold long , we shall be all undone , We need to pray then every Mother's Son , That the Lord of Heaven may of us take a care , To forgive us our Sins , and put us out of fear . When great Afflictions comes upon our Land , That the Lord is pleas'd among us for to send , We may thank our selves ; our Wickedness is great , Our Sins lies heavy , and I'm sorry fort . Now to conclude , we have no more to say , That we may serve the Lord , and Him Obey , And bless our English Nation evermore , And take off these troubles , which grieves our Nation soar , That we may live in happiness again , And let all good Christian people say , Amen . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Troubles of these Times OR , The Calamities of our English Nation , Makes many a heart soar sad , and out of Fashion , Which is a trouble and grief to all , There's many a man in danger for to fallen , But it is our Sins that causes this to be , That brings this Trouble , and this Misery , Lets pray to the Lord , our Nation to defend , And all English people Strive their lives to mend , And not to take so much the Lords Name in Vain , We must look for Judgments for the very same . To the Tune of , A Lesson for all true Christians . POor England now is full of Care and Grief , To see the Wars among us for to be so brief ; It makes all People they know not what to do , They are so full of care the truth is so . Trading is down , there's little to be god , The poorer sort they are very hard put too't , To maintain their Charge and children in their need , To see them want will make their hearts to bleed . There's many plaints , there's little for to do , They walk up and down , so heavily they go , They know not what to think , or how to tell ; But it is the Lord that can make all be well . Let us pray to the Lord then with a tender heart , There is nothing better that can take our part ; 'Tis not the Arm of flesh can do us wrong , If the Lord be with us , who can hurt us than . But the pride o'th Nation has been very soar , Now we must suffer for it to be sure ; The poorer sort of People abides the smart , But a true Believer in God is the best part . It's not the strength of Armed Men be sure , That can relieve us , or make us secure , It's the Lord from Heaven that must be our friend , To bring Peace and quietness in England again . And we our selves be in mighty care , To live uprightly , and the Lord to fear ; The Sins o'th Nation to the Lord does cry , Makes all these Troubles on this Land to lie . Therefore we had need to pray then Night and Day , To defend us from the Sword then every way ; The War and Sword brings Famine at the length , If it hold long in bloody force and strength . We know not what this may come to at last , Or how this trouble will be overpast , But the Lord above , He's in Heaven still , Let all be done unto His Blessed Will . For if these troubles do continue Long , There's many Thousand will be clear undone ; But the Lord he does know best then what to do , If we can be careful our sins for to forgo . We desire that love among us may increase , And grant our Nation a true happy Peace , What a comfort that would be , if the Lord be pleas'd , That of this War our Nation could be eas'd . If it hold long , we shall be all undone , We need to pray then every Mother's Son , That the Lord of Heaven may of us take a care , To forgive us our Sins , and put us out of fear . When great Afflictions comes upon our Land , That the Lord is pleas'd among us for to send , We may thank our selves ; our Wickedness is great , Our Sins lies heavy , and I'm sorry fort . Now to conclude , we have no more to say , That we may serve the Lord , and Him Obey , And bless our English Nation evermore , And take off these troubles , which grieves our Nation soar , That we may live in happiness again , And let all good Christian people say , Amen . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 