The True Lovers Joy : OR , A Dialogue between a Seaman and his Love . The Maid implores the aid of Charons Boat , That to the gloomy shades her Soul might float , With sighs and groans , much weary and oppressed , At last he herd her moan , and gave her rest , From all past dangers , and from future harms , She safe arriv'd and anchor'd in his arms . To a new Tune much in Request . Maid . HArk Charon come away , bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless maid , unto the Elizium Shores . Charon . Who Charon calls in haste , while I fit here in pain , I carry none but pure and chaste , such as true Love hath slave . I am come , dear soul I come , thy Face does so incharm me , Come in my Boat and take thy room , no wind nor wave shall harm thee . Maid . Now I am come in thy Boat , I am a maid undone , Sighing my Heart is almost broke for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the shades , i'le tell you a mournful tale , So full of sighs as we do pass , shall serve us for a gale . And so beguil'd the time , I'le sing you a true Lovers Song , Mine eyes shall flow a Sea of tears , to carry the Boat along . O what's become of those hard hearts of a Virgins takes no pity , They'r sailing to Virginia parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and hath pierc'd my tender heart , To call for one whom I lov'd so dear , who cares but little for't . Thus in the shades below , we'll wast the tedious hours No gust of winds , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charon's Oars . His Answer . Stay gentle Charon stay , and let thy Boat alone , Row not the harmless Maid away that sits and makes her moan . For she that calls so fast , and sighs so at thy stay , A Virgin is as pure & chaste , as e'er true Love did stay . She's no dear soul for thee , let not her face incharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be her beauty there may harm thee . O fair one , if you go ; I'm more undone than you , My heart does equal sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The shades you must not pass , nor mournful stories tell Instead of sighing gales , alas ! a kiss will do as well . You'd better stay a shore , and sing us a true Lovers Song , It is enough , we need no more to carry his Boat along . No heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your pain , Else heart let him to Virginia go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before , If you love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In Beds of softest Down , we'll spend the short liv'd nights , No gust of Wind or sighs shall drown . the current of our delights . Maid . Come gentle Charon come and me to shore remove , The wind despairing sighed did blow , shall waft me unto Love . How slow the Boatsman steers , if he no faster ply , My Love to ride me of my fears , shall lend me his wings to fly , To thee dear Love I float , finding thee just and true And bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally adieu . Make haste , make hast my Dear , for if thou longer stay , Through the floods without all fears , my Arms shall make their wa Welcome my Love to shore I'le keep thee from all harms , And thou shalt ride for evermore at Anchor in my arms . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The True Lovers Joy : OR , A Dialogue between a Seaman and his Love . The Maid implores the aid of Charons Boat , That to the gloomy shades her Soul might float , With sighs and groans , much weary and oppressed , At last he herd her moan , and gave her rest , From all past dangers , and from future harms , She safe arriv'd and anchor'd in his arms . To a new Tune much in Request . Maid . HArk Charon come away , bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless maid , unto the Elizium Shores . Charon . Who Charon calls in haste , while I fit here in pain , I carry none but pure and chaste , such as true Love hath slave . I am come , dear soul I come , thy Face does so incharm me , Come in my Boat and take thy room , no wind nor wave shall harm thee . Maid . Now I am come in thy Boat , I am a maid undone , Sighing my Heart is almost broke for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the shades , i'le tell you a mournful tale , So full of sighs as we do pass , shall serve us for a gale . And so beguil'd the time , I'le sing you a true Lovers Song , Mine eyes shall flow a Sea of tears , to carry the Boat along . O what's become of those hard hearts of a Virgins takes no pity , They'r sailing to Virginia parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and hath pierc'd my tender heart , To call for one whom I lov'd so dear , who cares but little for't . Thus in the shades below , we'll wast the tedious hours No gust of winds , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charon's Oars . His Answer . Stay gentle Charon stay , and let thy Boat alone , Row not the harmless Maid away that sits and makes her moan . For she that calls so fast , and sighs so at thy stay , A Virgin is as pure & chaste , as e'er true Love did stay . She's no dear soul for thee , let not her face incharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be her beauty there may harm thee . O fair one , if you go ; I'm more undone than you , My heart does equal sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The shades you must not pass , nor mournful stories tell Instead of sighing gales , alas ! a kiss will do as well . You'd better stay a shore , and sing us a true Lovers Song , It is enough , we need no more to carry his Boat along . No heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your pain , Else heart let him to Virginia go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before , If you love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In Beds of softest Down , we'll spend the short liv'd nights , No gust of Wind or sighs shall drown . the current of our delights . Maid . Come gentle Charon come and me to shore remove , The wind despairing sighed did blow , shall waft me unto Love . How slow the Boatsman steers , if he no faster ply , My Love to ride me of my fears , shall lend me his wings to fly , To thee dear Love I float , finding thee just and true And bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally adieu . Make haste , make hast my Dear , for if thou longer stay , Through the floods without all fears , my Arms shall make their wa Welcome my Love to shore I'le keep thee from all harms , And thou shalt ride for evermore at Anchor in my arms . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 