True Love Rewarded with Cruelty . Being a true Account of one Marry Story , a Maid , who once lived at Limehouse , in the County of Middlesex that was in love with one who had promised her Marriage , so that the Wedding-day was appoint - ted , but he changed his mind , and forsook her , whereupon she took grief and died about the latter end of July , 1683. Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . YOu that ever in love delighted , Pity me that now am slighted by a youngman too unkind , That did leave me , and deceive me , which distracts both brain and mind . I am strangely discontented , Night and day I am tormented , my heart is ready for to break ; But i'le give o're , and love no more , for my deceitful George's sake . But why talk I of giving over ? That am now a dying lover , languishing through his disdain ; And now with smart I break my heart , but he ne'r pities this my pain . He to me did promise Marriage ; Oh! but mind this strange miscarriage , his wavering mind began to change , He pleaded debt , which made me fret , this alteration was so strange . But he strove to stand the trial , What would follow his denial , and to my sorrow now I know That I must die ; most dreadfully Love wrought my fatal overthrow . That very day I should be married , Then , alas ! I so miscarried , he said that he ow'd twenty pound ; This cruel news did me amuse , and gave to me a mortal wound . He said he'd not bring me to trouble , Then my sorrows they grew double , but 'twas only a pretence Me to deceive , and strangely leave , as I have been informed since . O that he should be so cruel To my flame to add a fuel that a Maiden will destroy ! No hope can save me from my Grave since I have lost mine only joy . In him alone I was delighted , Now my days are all benighted , all my comforts now are fled , While I do mourn like one forlorn ; mind what I say on dying-bed . Tho there's nothing here can daunt thee , Night and day i'le surely haunt thee wheresoever thou dost go ; You broke Loves laws , & that's the cause that has procured my overthrow . Your false tongue was quick and nimble , With me you did so dissemble , that you gain'd my tender heart , Which now will break for your dear sake , that are the cause of all my smart . Call to mind your gross offences , Broken vows , and False pretences , which my ruin did procure ; My heart you wone , and I'me undone , cause you to me are so obdure . Why should you be so ungrateful , When I proved not deceitful ? but as constant as the Dove ; Why at this rate do you me hate , and slight me thus for my true love ? Oh! remember all your wishes , Treacherous vows , and fawning kisses , that you once bestow'd on me , Me to ensnare ; but have a care , lest my poor Ghost does trouble thee . In your baseness never glory , Boast not o're poor Marry Story , time may come when you may rue That you betray'd a harmless Maid , who prov'd so loyal unto you . Though these lines may little move thee , For thy faults I must reprove thee with my latest murmuring breath ; I once again do here complain that thou hast brought me to my death . You that I do leave behind me , I entreat you all to mind me , my last speeches ne'r forget , This cruel man his Lover kills , that he so light by her does set . Then she did begin to shiver , All her joints did shake and quiver , her Cherry-lips look'd wan and pale , And cruel Death did stop her breath , so strongly he did her assail . You that hear this mournful ditty , Cannot choose but grieve , and pity this poor Creature , in distress , For she did find he was unkind ; she died cause he was pitiless . Youngmen never prove disloyal , Put not Maidens to the trial when you come their loves to win , Do not pretend to be a friend , unless their ruins you'l begin . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . True Love Rewarded with Cruelty . Being a true Account of one Marry Story , a Maid , who once lived at Limehouse , in the County of Middlesex that was in love with one who had promised her Marriage , so that the Wedding-day was appoint - ted , but he changed his mind , and forsook her , whereupon she took grief and died about the latter end of July , 1683. Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . YOu that ever in love delighted , Pity me that now am slighted by a youngman too unkind , That did leave me , and deceive me , which distracts both brain and mind . I am strangely discontented , Night and day I am tormented , my heart is ready for to break ; But i'le give o're , and love no more , for my deceitful George's sake . But why talk I of giving over ? That am now a dying lover , languishing through his disdain ; And now with smart I break my heart , but he ne'r pities this my pain . He to me did promise Marriage ; Oh! but mind this strange miscarriage , his wavering mind began to change , He pleaded debt , which made me fret , this alteration was so strange . But he strove to stand the trial , What would follow his denial , and to my sorrow now I know That I must die ; most dreadfully Love wrought my fatal overthrow . That very day I should be married , Then , alas ! I so miscarried , he said that he ow'd twenty pound ; This cruel news did me amuse , and gave to me a mortal wound . He said he'd not bring me to trouble , Then my sorrows they grew double , but 'twas only a pretence Me to deceive , and strangely leave , as I have been informed since . O that he should be so cruel To my flame to add a fuel that a Maiden will destroy ! No hope can save me from my Grave since I have lost mine only joy . In him alone I was delighted , Now my days are all benighted , all my comforts now are fled , While I do mourn like one forlorn ; mind what I say on dying-bed . Tho there's nothing here can daunt thee , Night and day i'le surely haunt thee wheresoever thou dost go ; You broke Loves laws , & that's the cause that has procured my overthrow . Your false tongue was quick and nimble , With me you did so dissemble , that you gain'd my tender heart , Which now will break for your dear sake , that are the cause of all my smart . Call to mind your gross offences , Broken vows , and False pretences , which my ruin did procure ; My heart you wone , and I'me undone , cause you to me are so obdure . Why should you be so ungrateful , When I proved not deceitful ? but as constant as the Dove ; Why at this rate do you me hate , and slight me thus for my true love ? Oh! remember all your wishes , Treacherous vows , and fawning kisses , that you once bestow'd on me , Me to ensnare ; but have a care , lest my poor Ghost does trouble thee . In your baseness never glory , Boast not o're poor Marry Story , time may come when you may rue That you betray'd a harmless Maid , who prov'd so loyal unto you . Though these lines may little move thee , For thy faults I must reprove thee with my latest murmuring breath ; I once again do here complain that thou hast brought me to my death . You that I do leave behind me , I entreat you all to mind me , my last speeches ne'r forget , This cruel man his Lover kills , that he so light by her does set . Then she did begin to shiver , All her joints did shake and quiver , her Cherry-lips look'd wan and pale , And cruel Death did stop her breath , so strongly he did her assail . You that hear this mournful ditty , Cannot choose but grieve , and pity this poor Creature , in distress , For she did find he was unkind ; she died cause he was pitiless . Youngmen never prove disloyal , Put not Maidens to the trial when you come their loves to win , Do not pretend to be a friend , unless their ruins you'l begin . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . 