THE Algier Slaves Releasmen OR , The Unchangeable Boat-wain . No Prison like the Jail of Love , nor no such torments found ; To those that loyal mean to prove , whose loves are firm and found ; This loyal person ne'r would change , like a true Lover he ; Indur'd his Fetters and his Chains , and Betty's Captive be . To the Tune of , Awake , O my Cloris . OF a Constant Young Seaman , a Story I'le tell : That I hope all true Lovers will please very well : All his cry was still , though I continue a Slave ; Yet the want of my Dear . is far worse than a Grave , All the tedious long Night in close Prison I lie ; But methinks I behold my dear love lying by : In the mid'st of my pains , this does still give me ease ; That is pleasant to me , which some call a Disease . Sometime to the Galleys I'm forced to go ; Though among all my Fellows , like a Slave I do Row : And when I am spent with this Labour and Pain ; The thoughts of my Love does revive me again . ANd when with Strappadoes sometime I do me I find little Pain , if I think on my swee Thus 'twixt Pleasure and Pain , my time I do spend ; Yet vow to be Constant unto my Lives end . No Torture nor Prison shall make me forsake , Nor fly from my Reason , for my Betty's sake : I do slight all the Torments bestow'd by the Turk ; When I think on my Dear , and in Galleys do work . But a Renegado to make me they strive ; I'le never consent to't , while I am alive : But will a Courageous true Protestant be : I'le be true to my faith , and be constant to thee . Ah Betty , when Billows do Rage and do Roar , For want of thy sighed I am troubled soar : While others are troubled with terror and fear ; Yet I am chear'd up with the thoughts of my Dear . No Prison is like to the want of thy sighed ; Which Locks up my bliss , for thou art my Deligh Though distant I am , therefore only oppress Yet still my dear Betty does lodge in my breast . In the midst of my sorrows , while others do mourn ; 'Tis the want of my Love that does make me forlorn : Yet would not enjoy thee in this cursed place ; Though for want of thy Love , my tears trickle apace . But be of good cheer , for every one knows , 'Tis and ill Wind indeed that no comfort blows . And again I do hope thee in England to see : Then who'l be so happy as Betty and me . And now through Providence , I am return'd ; By Shipwreck I scap'd , for our Ship it was burn'd : No torment like mine was , when I was a Slave : For the want of my Betty , was worse then a Grave . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Rain-Bow near Davids-Inn , in Holborn . THE Algier Slaves Releasmen OR , The Unchangeable Boat-wain . No Prison like the Jail of Love , nor no such torments found ; To those that loyal mean to prove , whose loves are firm and found ; This loyal person ne'r would change , like a true Lover he ; Indur'd his Fetters and his Chains , and Betty's Captive be . To the Tune of , Awake , O my Cloris . OF a Constant Young Seaman , a Story I'le tell : That I hope all true Lovers will please very well : All his cry was still , though I continue a Slave ; Yet the want of my Dear . is far worse than a Grave , All the tedious long Night in close Prison I lie ; But methinks I behold my dear love lying by : In the mid'st of my pains , this does still give me ease ; That is pleasant to me , which some call a Disease . Sometime to the Galleys I'm forced to go ; Though among all my Fellows , like a Slave I do Row : And when I am spent with this Labour and Pain ; The thoughts of my Love does revive me again . ANd when with Strappadoes sometime I do me I find little Pain , if I think on my swee Thus 'twixt Pleasure and Pain , my time I do spend ; Yet vow to be Constant unto my Lives end . No Torture nor Prison shall make me forsake , Nor fly from my Reason , for my Betty's sake : I do slight all the Torments bestow'd by the Turk ; When I think on my Dear , and in Galleys do work . But a Renegado to make me they strive ; I'le never consent to't , while I am alive : But will a Courageous true Protestant be : I'le be true to my faith , and be constant to thee . Ah Betty , when Billows do Rage and do Roar , For want of thy sighed I am troubled soar : While others are troubled with terror and fear ; Yet I am chear'd up with the thoughts of my Dear . No Prison is like to the want of thy sighed ; Which Locks up my bliss , for thou art my Deligh Though distant I am , therefore only oppress Yet still my dear Betty does lodge in my breast . In the midst of my sorrows , while others do mourn ; 'Tis the want of my Love that does make me forlorn : Yet would not enjoy thee in this cursed place ; Though for want of thy Love , my tears trickle apace . But be of good cheer , for every one knows , 'Tis and ill Wind indeed that no comfort blows . And again I do hope thee in England to see : Then who'l be so happy as Betty and me . And now through Providence , I am return'd ; By Shipwreck I scap'd , for our Ship it was burn'd : No torment like mine was , when I was a Slave : For the want of my Betty , was worse then a Grave . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Rain-Bow near Davids-Inn , in Holborn . THE Algier Slaves Releasmen OR , The Unchangeable Boat-wain . No Prison like the Jail of Love , nor no such torments found ; To those that loyal mean to prove , whose loves are firm and found ; This loyal person ne'r would change , like a true Lover he ; Indur'd his Fetters and his Chains , and Betty's Captive be . To the Tune of , Awake , O my Cloris . OF a Constant Young Seaman , a Story I'le tell : That I hope all true Lovers will please very well : All his cry was still , though I continue a Slave ; Yet the want of my Dear . is far worse than a Grave , All the tedious long Night in close Prison I lie ; But methinks I behold my dear love lying by : In the mid'st of my pains , this does still give me ease ; That is pleasant to me , which some call a Disease . Sometime to the Galleys I'm forced to go ; Though among all my Fellows , like a Slave I do Row : And when I am spent with this Labour and Pain ; The thoughts of my Love does revive me again . ANd when with Strappadoes sometime I do me I find little Pain , if I think on my swee Thus 'twixt Pleasure and Pain , my time I do spend ; Yet vow to be Constant unto my Lives end . No Torture nor Prison shall make me forsake , Nor fly from my Reason , for my Betty's sake : I do slight all the Torments bestow'd by the Turk ; When I think on my Dear , and in Galleys do work . But a Renegado to make me they strive ; I'le never consent to't , while I am alive : But will a Courageous true Protestant be : I'le be true to my faith , and be constant to thee . Ah Betty , when Billows do Rage and do Roar , For want of thy sighed I am troubled soar : While others are troubled with terror and fear ; Yet I am chear'd up with the thoughts of my Dear . No Prison is like to the want of thy sighed ; Which Locks up my bliss , for thou art my Deligh Though distant I am , therefore only oppress Yet still my dear Betty does lodge in my breast . In the midst of my sorrows , while others do mourn ; 'Tis the want of my Love that does make me forlorn : Yet would not enjoy thee in this cursed place ; Though for want of thy Love , my tears trickle apace . But be of good cheer , for every one knows , 'Tis and ill Wind indeed that no comfort blows . And again I do hope thee in England to see : Then who'l be so happy as Betty and me . And now through Providence , I am return'd ; By Shipwreck I scap'd , for our Ship it was burn'd : No torment like mine was , when I was a Slave : For the want of my Betty , was worse then a Grave . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Rain-Bow near Davids-Inn , in Holborn . THE Algier Slaves Releasmen OR , The Unchangeable Boat-wain . No Prison like the Jail of Love , nor no such torments found ; To those that loyal mean to prove , whose loves are firm and found ; This loyal person ne'r would change , like a true Lover he ; Indur'd his Fetters and his Chains , and Betty's Captive be . To the Tune of , Awake , O my Cloris . OF a Constant Young Seaman , a Story I'le tell : That I hope all true Lovers will please very well : All his cry was still , though I continue a Slave ; Yet the want of my Dear . is far worse than a Grave , All the tedious long Night in close Prison I lie ; But methinks I behold my dear love lying by : In the mid'st of my pains , this does still give me ease ; That is pleasant to me , which some call a Disease . Sometime to the Galleys I'm forced to go ; Though among all my Fellows , like a Slave I do Row : And when I am spent with this Labour and Pain ; The thoughts of my Love does revive me again . ANd when with Strappadoes sometime I do me I find little Pain , if I think on my swee Thus 'twixt Pleasure and Pain , my time I do spend ; Yet vow to be Constant unto my Lives end . No Torture nor Prison shall make me forsake , Nor fly from my Reason , for my Betty's sake : I do slight all the Torments bestow'd by the Turk ; When I think on my Dear , and in Galleys do work . But a Renegado to make me they strive ; I'le never consent to't , while I am alive : But will a Courageous true Protestant be : I'le be true to my faith , and be constant to thee . Ah Betty , when Billows do Rage and do Roar , For want of thy sighed I am troubled soar : While others are troubled with terror and fear ; Yet I am chear'd up with the thoughts of my Dear . No Prison is like to the want of thy sighed ; Which Locks up my bliss , for thou art my Deligh Though distant I am , therefore only oppress Yet still my dear Betty does lodge in my breast . In the midst of my sorrows , while others do mourn ; 'Tis the want of my Love that does make me forlorn : Yet would not enjoy thee in this cursed place ; Though for want of thy Love , my tears trickle apace . But be of good cheer , for every one knows , 'Tis and ill Wind indeed that no comfort blows . And again I do hope thee in England to see : Then who'l be so happy as Betty and me . And now through Providence , I am return'd ; By Shipwreck I scap'd , for our Ship it was burn'd : No torment like mine was , when I was a Slave : For the want of my Betty , was worse then a Grave . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Rain-Bow near Davids-Inn , in Holborn . 