OLIMPYA'S Unfortunate Love : OR GALLIUS his Treacherous Cruelty . A new Song , as it is Sung in a Play , called , The Spanish Fryer . At the Dukes Theatre , with great applause . Fairest Olimpia at last being wone , Did yield to Gallius , who has her undone , Her Honour's lost , and he does her Neglect His ends being gain'd he shows her no respec But flies her arms , while that false Man she cries , And in her Blood her fatal Dagger dies . To a pleasant new Play-House Tune . FArewel ungrateful Traitor , farewell my Perjur'd Swain ; Let never injur'd Creature , believe a Man again : The pleasure of possessing , Surpasses all expressing , But 'tis too short a Blessing , and love too long a pain . 'Tis easy to deceive us , in pity of your pain , But when we love , you leave us , to rail at you in vain : Before we have discry'd it , There is no Bliss beside it , But she that once has try'd it , will never love again . The passion you pretended , was only to obtain , But when the Charm is ended , the Charmer you disdain : Your love by ours we measure Till we have left our Treasure , But dying is a Pleasure , when living is a pain . For who would live in Torment , to be each moment slave ; By flames of love so fervent , enrag'd by men disdain : When death has power to ease us , Of all the woes that seize us , And sorrows that displease us , so ne'r to grieve again . No Torture's like to loving , and not belov'd again , Yet we are oft approving ; of such a fatal bane : By crediting their wishes , Their Toying and their Kisses , Which do but raise our Blisses , to fallen beneath disdain . They only are for pleasure , our Honours so to stain , Then let us grieve at leisure , they'l Laugh when we complain And still will prove more cruel , By adding of new Fuel , In which they think they do well , to Martyr us with pain . While like the Phoenix frying , we in sweet Gums remain , They triumph in our Dying , and boast they Trophies gain : But cruel man 'tis faded , Since you my Love invaded , I will not be upbraided , first Death shall end my pain . O witness all you powers , how he my Love did gain , While oft in shady Bowers , he swore he wou'd remain The constantest of Lovers , But now my Loss discovers ; How black my fate it hovers , and how his vows were vain . With that a sighs she breathed , while in her breast the flame Did struggle to be eased , when ah , she did proclaim : Too Cruel Galius flying , When thy Olimpia's Dying , With gloomy Eyes then eyeing each corner of the Plain . When as she Death's keen message , out of her Bosom drew , And gave it speedy passage , her Life for to subdue : Then cry'd false Man , her passion , Who first for you took Station , Fate weds passed alteration , Olympia Dies for you . Printed for J Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . OLIMPYA'S Unfortunate Love : OR GALLIUS his Treacherous Cruelty . A new Song , as it is Sung in a Play , called , The Spanish Fryer . At the Dukes Theatre , with great applause . Fairest Olimpia at last being wone , Did yield to Gallius , who has her undone , Her Honour's lost , and he does her Neglect His ends being gain'd he shows her no respec But flies her arms , while that false Man she cries , And in her Blood her fatal Dagger dies . To a pleasant new Play-House Tune . FArewel ungrateful Traitor , farewell my Perjur'd Swain ; Let never injur'd Creature , believe a Man again : The pleasure of possessing , Surpasses all expressing , But 'tis too short a Blessing , and love too long a pain . 'Tis easy to deceive us , in pity of your pain , But when we love , you leave us , to rail at you in vain : Before we have discry'd it , There is no Bliss beside it , But she that once has try'd it , will never love again . The passion you pretended , was only to obtain , But when the Charm is ended , the Charmer you disdain : Your love by ours we measure Till we have left our Treasure , But dying is a Pleasure , when living is a pain . For who would live in Torment , to be each moment slave ; By flames of love so fervent , enrag'd by men disdain : When death has power to ease us , Of all the woes that seize us , And sorrows that displease us , so ne'r to grieve again . No Torture's like to loving , and not belov'd again , Yet we are oft approving ; of such a fatal bane : By crediting their wishes , Their Toying and their Kisses , Which do but raise our Blisses , to fallen beneath disdain . They only are for pleasure , our Honours so to stain , Then let us grieve at leisure , they'l Laugh when we complain And still will prove more cruel , By adding of new Fuel , In which they think they do well , to Martyr us with pain . While like the Phoenix frying , we in sweet Gums remain , They triumph in our Dying , and boast they Trophies gain : But cruel man 'tis faded , Since you my Love invaded , I will not be upbraided , first Death shall end my pain . O witness all you powers , how he my Love did gain , While oft in shady Bowers , he swore he wou'd remain The constantest of Lovers , But now my Loss discovers ; How black my fate it hovers , and how his vows were vain . With that a sighs she breathed , while in her breast the flame Did struggle to be eased , when ah , she did proclaim : Too Cruel Galius flying , When thy Olimpia's Dying , With gloomy Eyes then eyeing each corner of the Plain . When as she Death's keen message , out of her Bosom drew , And gave it speedy passage , her Life for to subdue : Then cry'd false Man , her passion , Who first for you took Station , Fate weds passed alteration , Olympia Dies for you . Printed for J Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . 