Repentance too Late : Being fair Celia's complaint for the loss of her Virginity . OR , The wronged Lover finds no cure but Death . Being a pleasant new play Song : As it is sung at the Theater Fair Caelia's kind and trusts too much her Swain , Who once Enjoying her returns disdain , Courts other Virgins and neglects her quite What love he had is turned now to spite . For which she grieves at her too quick belief And warns all Virgins by her doleful grief , How to beware of man whose false surprise , Had ruin'd her then lies her down and dies . To a pleasant new play house Tune called , Sad as Death : OR , Parthenia unto Cloe cried . SAd as death at dead of night the fair complaining Caelia sat But one poor lamp was all her light while thus she reason'd with her fate . Why should man such triumphs gain and purchase such joy that gives us pain , Ah what glory can ensue a helpless Virgin to undo . Curs'd the night when curs'd the hour , when first he drew her to his Arms When Virtue was betray'd by power and yielded to unlawful charms . When approach'd with all his fires arm'd with hope's and strong desires , S [ i ] g [ h ] s and tears and every vile with which the men the maids beguile . Dream no more pleasures passed since all thy torments are to come , The secret is made known at last and endless shame is now thy doom , The false forsworn alas is gone and left thee here to despair alone , Who that hears of Caelia's pain will never trust will never trust a man again . Eas'ly I believed his vows and yielded up my honour bright , For which hard fate no cure allows but it is never set in night . Come gentle death and ease my grief yield poor Caelia some relief , Oh! lock me in thy cold embrace henceforth the Grave's my dwell [ ing-place . ] Ah! and could he leave me thus weeping , the mourning Caelia cried , Was't enjoyment wrought my curse o ! me that e'r had I but dy'd . Then to'th Elizium shades i'de gone a spotless Virgin now i'me none , But to'th woods my woe must sing till willing death my rescue bring . Cyp'rus shall o're shade my Tomb while on the blushing ground I lie , Where Violets and sweet Roses bloom I care not now for coming nigh , Since I have lost my Virgin state by trusting man such my hard fate , That proves perfidious and unjust and has to shame betray'd my trust . Cruel powers why have you made Man so Majestic bright and fair , Alas was't only to invade poor silly Virgins to ensnare . Undone by their too crafty wiles Alur'd into loves fatal toils , By the soft whispers of their breath which wound the love sick heart to death . Like a Serpent that does lie and [ e ] r a bed of gaudy flowers , Whose smell and sighed invites the eyes and ravish'd sense so that no power . To shun they have but plucking strait they meet their unexpected fate , So men with sweet words deceive till they have god their ends then leave . The yielding Virgin to possess for constant v [ oh ] us the wandering Air , To wail her own unhappiness for constant lovers now are rare . Words smooth as Oil are soon forgotten oaths they suspend or valve not , Her whom they swear now Angel bright when once enjoy [ ' ] worser is black as night . Virgins all be warn'd by me who now must mourn my ill star'd fate , Oh! trust not your virginity lest love should turn to cruel hate , Which I have prov'd for which I die Heartbroken hear for ever lie , At which she sigh'd out her last breath and love and beauty left in death . London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , [ J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . ] Repentance too Late : Being fair Celia's complaint for the loss of her Virginity . OR , The wronged Lover finds no cure but Death . Being a pleasant new play Song : As it is sung at the Theater Fair Caelia's kind and trusts too much her Swain , Who once Enjoying her returns disdain , Courts other Virgins and neglects her quite What love he had is turned now to spite . For which she grieves at her too quick belief And warns all Virgins by her doleful grief , How to beware of man whose false surprise , Had ruin'd her then lies her down and dies . To a pleasant new play house Tune called , Sad as Death : OR , Parthenia unto Cloe cried . SAd as death at dead of night the fair complaining Caelia sat But one poor lamp was all her light while thus she reason'd with her fate . Why should man such triumphs gain and purchase such joy that gives us pain , Ah what glory can ensue a helpless Virgin to undo . Curs'd the night when curs'd the hour , when first he drew her to his Arms When Virtue was betray'd by power and yielded to unlawful charms . When approach'd with all his fires arm'd with hope's and strong desires , S [ i ] g [ h ] s and tears and every vile with which the men the maids beguile . Dream no more pleasures passed since all thy torments are to come , The secret is made known at last and endless shame is now thy doom , The false forsworn alas is gone and left thee here to despair alone , Who that hears of Caelia's pain will never trust will never trust a man again . Eas'ly I believed his vows and yielded up my honour bright , For which hard fate no cure allows but it is never set in night . Come gentle death and ease my grief yield poor Caelia some relief , Oh! lock me in thy cold embrace henceforth the Grave's my dwell [ ing-place . ] Ah! and could he leave me thus weeping , the mourning Caelia cried , Was't enjoyment wrought my curse o ! me that e'r had I but dy'd . Then to'th Elizium shades i'de gone a spotless Virgin now i'me none , But to'th woods my woe must sing till willing death my rescue bring . Cyp'rus shall o're shade my Tomb while on the blushing ground I lie , Where Violets and sweet Roses bloom I care not now for coming nigh , Since I have lost my Virgin state by trusting man such my hard fate , That proves perfidious and unjust and has to shame betray'd my trust . Cruel powers why have you made Man so Majestic bright and fair , Alas was't only to invade poor silly Virgins to ensnare . Undone by their too crafty wiles Alur'd into loves fatal toils , By the soft whispers of their breath which wound the love sick heart to death . Like a Serpent that does lie and [ e ] r a bed of gaudy flowers , Whose smell and sighed invites the eyes and ravish'd sense so that no power . To shun they have but plucking strait they meet their unexpected fate , So men with sweet words deceive till they have god their ends then leave . The yielding Virgin to possess for constant v [ oh ] us the wandering Air , To wail her own unhappiness for constant lovers now are rare . Words smooth as Oil are soon forgotten oaths they suspend or valve not , Her whom they swear now Angel bright when once enjoy [ ' ] worser is black as night . Virgins all be warn'd by me who now must mourn my ill star'd fate , Oh! trust not your virginity lest love should turn to cruel hate , Which I have prov'd for which I die Heartbroken hear for ever lie , At which she sigh'd out her last breath and love and beauty left in death . London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , [ J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . ] 