THE True pattern of Constancy : OR , The Loyal Lovers Joys Completed . When Youngmen find their Love's unkind , they then impatient grow , But when their Grief do's find Relief , it Expiates their Woe . To and Excellent New Tune : Or , Farewell the Flower of false deceit , etc This may be Printed , R. P. FArewell thou Flower of false deceit , and I wish the height of you may fade , That your Countenance may altered be , and your Honour in the Dust be laid . Ne'er was a Man more true than I , as you yourself full well do know ; Till I found you in your Cruelty , that you sought my final Overthrow . I wish the bright Sun may not shine on thee , as it has done before ; For your Countenance hath me beguil'd , I can love again , but you no more . Once I could have been as constant Sweetheart for to cross the Ocean Seas for thee , As Vulcan did for Venus's sake , when he Sailed into Italy . If you were as fair as Rosamond was , with her Cherry Cheeks and dimpled Chin ; Or if you were as fair as Hellena was , I should never more delight therein . But now my heart it is my own , why should I for another care ? For to sighs and sob , lament , and moan , for to bring my self unto Despair ? I will enjoy my Liberty , and in the World I mean to range ; For I will no more your Captive be , you I for another mean to change . You treated me with such despite , while I your person did adore , That I valve not your Beauty bright , then adieu , adieu for evermore . The Maidens Answer to the Youngman . Such Resolutions do not name , pray let me speak a word or two ; Do not thus against thy Love exclaim , when thou know'st I cannot part with thee , Why dost thou charge me with Deceit ? such was my Love and Loyalty , That I never could your Person meet , but you proved as a Life to me . Here I do offer hand and heart , with all that I can call my own ; Then do not from thy true Love part , but take some pity of my moan . For my heart to thee is linked fast , I cannot waver with the Wind ; But as long as ever Life shall last , sure I shall never change my mind . This Loving Couples happy Agreement . Can I believe this is my Dear , who once did slight me with disdain ? If it be , then will my joys appear , seeing she is thus return'd again . Now nothing can my peace annoy , as long as ever Life do's last ; In my Dear I place my chiefest joy , utterly forgetting all that's past . I will embrace thee in my Arms , with many a soft and tender Kiss , With many thousand pleasant Charms , in a full perfection of our Bliss . Tho' once I did reflect on thee , 'twas while my heart was fill'd with grief , And I never did expect to see , that thou ever would'st afford Relief . But since the Frowns of Fate are fled , and I have found thy Constancy , Now my heart is free from fear and dread , I will love my Jewel till I die . Then he took his true Love by the hand , calling her his true and Turtle-Dove , We'll no longer now disputing stand , but resolve to live and die in Love . THE True pattern of Constancy : OR , The Loyal Lovers Joys Completed . When Youngmen find their Love's unkind , they then impatient grow , But when their Grief do's find Relief , it Expiates their Woe . To and Excellent New Tune : Or , Farewell the Flower of false deceit , etc This may be Printed , R. P. FArewell thou Flower of false deceit , and I wish the height of you may fade , That your Countenance may altered be , and your Honour in the Dust be laid . Ne'er was a Man more true than I , as you yourself full well do know ; Till I found you in your Cruelty , that you sought my final Overthrow . I wish the bright Sun may not shine on thee , as it has done before ; For your Countenance hath me beguil'd , I can love again , but you no more . Once I could have been as constant Sweetheart for to cross the Ocean Seas for thee , As Vulcan did for Venus's sake , when he Sailed into Italy . If you were as fair as Rosamond was , with her Cherry Cheeks and dimpled Chin ; Or if you were as fair as Hellena was , I should never more delight therein . But now my heart it is my own , why should I for another care ? For to sighs and sob , lament , and moan , for to bring my self unto Despair ? I will enjoy my Liberty , and in the World I mean to range ; For I will no more your Captive be , you I for another mean to change . You treated me with such despite , while I your person did adore , That I valve not your Beauty bright , then adieu , adieu for evermore . The Maidens Answer to the Youngman . Such Resolutions do not name , pray let me speak a word or two ; Do not thus against thy Love exclaim , when thou know'st I cannot part with thee , Why dost thou charge me with Deceit ? such was my Love and Loyalty , That I never could your Person meet , but you proved as a Life to me . Here I do offer hand and heart , with all that I can call my own ; Then do not from thy true Love part , but take some pity of my moan . For my heart to thee is linked fast , I cannot waver with the Wind ; But as long as ever Life shall last , sure I shall never change my mind . This Loving Couples happy Agreement . Can I believe this is my Dear , who once did slight me with disdain ? If it be , then will my joys appear , seeing she is thus return'd again . Now nothing can my peace annoy , as long as ever Life do's last ; In my Dear I place my chiefest joy , utterly forgetting all that's past . I will embrace thee in my Arms , with many a soft and tender Kiss , With many thousand pleasant Charms , in a full perfection of our Bliss . Tho' once I did reflect on thee , 'twas while my heart was fill'd with grief , And I never did expect to see , that thou ever would'st afford Relief . But since the Frowns of Fate are fled , and I have found thy Constancy , Now my heart is free from fear and dread , I will love my Jewel till I die . Then he took his true Love by the hand , calling her his true and Turtle-Dove , We'll no longer now disputing stand , but resolve to live and die in Love . 