The true Lovers Admonition . Of all the Colours in the world , the black hair is the best , Though fair & brown may be well curl'd yet black exceeds the res That is the colour I do prize , and love beyond all measure , She that hath black Hair and black eyes , esteem her as a treasure . The Tune is , So Sweet is the Lass that Loves me , YOu pretty little young men all , come listen to my Ditty , Beware how you in love do fallen I'd have you wise and witty : But whensoe're you make a vow be sure you do not break it , For there be fair Young Maids enough , that willingly will take it . Let me a little you advice , that when you go a wooing , You may choose , one that's fair and wise , lest it be your undoing : The Lass that hath a ruling eye , will vow and quickly break it Though she at first seem to deny , I'le warrant thee boy shee'l take it . Do not thou choose a long-nos'd Lass , for she's inclin'd to scolding And be to thee a plague alas ! be not to her beholding : What though she store of money hath , you'd better take one naked , Not one in twenty that draws breath , but will go near to take it . And she that is splayfooted too , i'de have thee not to mind her , But choose you one that's fair and true if you know where to find her : For here and there you'l find one fair , will vow and will not break it Not one in ten I say again , but will go near to take it . The Carrot pate besure you hate , for she'l be true to no man , But put her too't and she will do't , and oft turns very common : She that is read upon the head , will doubtless ne'r forsake it , But wanton be , assuredly , and willingly will take it . She that hath hair that's bright and fair , will do the trick most neatly , Of her i'de have you have a care , lest she cheat you completely : Then do not try , for certainly , if you but at het shake it , She will conclude you are not rude , but freely she will take it . The Crump , the Hopper-arse and all , will make you no denial , They willingly will take a fallen , if you come to the trial : You'ld find that I speak merrily , by no means will forsake it , It is well known there's few or none , but willingly will take it . The old , the young , the weak , the strong , full easily are tempted , They will not be persuaded from , nor from it be exempted : Then have a care all colour'd hair , will right and reason make it , To use their own , since it is known that more or all will take it . But let me not forget to praise , the Glory of the Nation , For there is none that nowadays , are free from Loves temptation : Except it be the black , & she , hates Lust and will forsake it , She'l live & die contentedly , and never mind to take it . Except it be with her own Dear , and then she'l ne'r deny it , To trade a touch , then theres no fear , but she'l resolve to try it And willingly she will comply though't were to lie stark naked , For 'tis well known , that with ones own , it is no shame to take it . Then you that do Wooing go , be by a friend advised , For why , good counsel you do know , too often is despised , Take some girls by the Petticoat , & do but gently shake it , Then presently she will plainly show't thet merrily she will take it . And now for to conclude I say , you ought for to be careful , That you throw not your selves away ; then be exceeding fearful : Try but the black how she does smack , she'l vow & ne'r will break it , First doe her wed , then go to Bed and I warrant she will take it . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The true Lovers Admonition . Of all the Colours in the world , the black hair is the best , Though fair & brown may be well curl'd yet black exceeds the res That is the colour I do prize , and love beyond all measure , She that hath black Hair and black eyes , esteem her as a treasure . The Tune is , So Sweet is the Lass that Loves me , YOu pretty little young men all , come listen to my Ditty , Beware how you in love do fallen I'd have you wise and witty : But whensoe're you make a vow be sure you do not break it , For there be fair Young Maids enough , that willingly will take it . Let me a little you advice , that when you go a wooing , You may choose , one that's fair and wise , lest it be your undoing : The Lass that hath a ruling eye , will vow and quickly break it Though she at first seem to deny , I'le warrant thee boy shee'l take it . Do not thou choose a long-nos'd Lass , for she's inclin'd to scolding And be to thee a plague alas ! be not to her beholding : What though she store of money hath , you'd better take one naked , Not one in twenty that draws breath , but will go near to take it . And she that is splayfooted too , i'de have thee not to mind her , But choose you one that's fair and true if you know where to find her : For here and there you'l find one fair , will vow and will not break it Not one in ten I say again , but will go near to take it . The Carrot pate besure you hate , for she'l be true to no man , But put her too't and she will do't , and oft turns very common : She that is read upon the head , will doubtless ne'r forsake it , But wanton be , assuredly , and willingly will take it . She that hath hair that's bright and fair , will do the trick most neatly , Of her i'de have you have a care , lest she cheat you completely : Then do not try , for certainly , if you but at het shake it , She will conclude you are not rude , but freely she will take it . The Crump , the Hopper-arse and all , will make you no denial , They willingly will take a fallen , if you come to the trial : You'ld find that I speak merrily , by no means will forsake it , It is well known there's few or none , but willingly will take it . The old , the young , the weak , the strong , full easily are tempted , They will not be persuaded from , nor from it be exempted : Then have a care all colour'd hair , will right and reason make it , To use their own , since it is known that more or all will take it . But let me not forget to praise , the Glory of the Nation , For there is none that nowadays , are free from Loves temptation : Except it be the black , & she , hates Lust and will forsake it , She'l live & die contentedly , and never mind to take it . Except it be with her own Dear , and then she'l ne'r deny it , To trade a touch , then theres no fear , but she'l resolve to try it And willingly she will comply though't were to lie stark naked , For 'tis well known , that with ones own , it is no shame to take it . Then you that do Wooing go , be by a friend advised , For why , good counsel you do know , too often is despised , Take some girls by the Petticoat , & do but gently shake it , Then presently she will plainly show't thet merrily she will take it . And now for to conclude I say , you ought for to be careful , That you throw not your selves away ; then be exceeding fearful : Try but the black how she does smack , she'l vow & ne'r will break it , First doe her wed , then go to Bed and I warrant she will take it . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 