THE True Lovers Overthrow , While poor Amintas pin'd to Death , For Celia bright and fair , At last for him she lost her Breath , A grief beyond compare . To the Tune of State and Ambition . AH Cupid ! thou provest unkind and too cruel , a true loving Shepherd thus strangely to wound ; She that I counted my Love and my Jewel her hatred and enmity now I have found ; But let her prove Faithless , yet I will prove Loyal and though she does Tyrannise constant il'e be ; For she that hath given to me the denial , my Ruin and Destiny soon she will see , Here panting I lie and am always complaining , how she to her true Love hath proved severe ; And when I consider her , scorn and disdaining , from my blubber'd eyes then I part with a Tear : And panting just like a disconsolate Lover , try Celia how could'st thou be cruel to me ; As she her disdain so I folly discover , and how I am [ ? ] Now I of my Senses am strangely bereft , and captiv'd I am by the charms of her Eye ; Yet at my sad Torments she nothing is grieved , nor pities me not though in Fetters I lie , But if I at present am scorned and slighted , and nothing can prove more disdainful than she , Yet she without Question will once be requited , and then shee'l remember her scorning of me . 'Tis pity that Cruelty's pleasing unto her , and that in disdain she should take a delight ; For one time or other I fear 'twill undo her , and Tyrants but seldom get any thing by't ; What Creature so fair coul'd so slight a poor Lover ? that never was pleas'd till her Beauty he see ; No Riches nor Pleasure I prized above her , [ ? ] Well since 'tis my fate I must needs be contented , And under my burden must patiently lie ; What's for me allotted cannot be prevented : The worst she can do is to scorn till I Die And when for her sake , with this World I have parted Those that do outlive me will sorrowful be , And say the poor Shepherd he dy's broken hearted So a sorrowful Epitaph write over me . And when a long time He in sorrow had pined , At last he submitted to conquering Death ; His vitals decayed and his life He resigned And sighing did yield up his murmuring breath But when these sad tidings to Celia were carry'd That she her poor Shepherd no oftener should see Since he by her cruelty so had miscarry'd She cr'yd there is none so unhappy as me . Ah Shepherd most Faithful true , loyal , and constant Thou for thy fidelity payest to dear , Who'd think that thy doom I should work in and instant And now my own ruin I greatly do fear Yet 'twill be but justice if I am requited For cruel disdain and for storming of thee ; My joys I do fear now will soon be benighted , Then ruin and sorrow will wait upon me . But now 'tis too late my dear Love to recall thee , Thine eyes they are clos'd and thy Breath it is gone , Though such cruel Destiny chanc'd to befall thee , In Loves cooler Shades I will , meet thee anon ; My Conscience is prick'd and my Senses confounded , Wherever I go I thy Spirit do see , I grieve that to Death a true Lover I wounded , And now the same Fate is attending on me . I slight all the comforts that mortals can give me , And here on the Earth I no pleasure can take . There's nothing on this side the Grave can relieve me , I must languishing die for my true Lovers sake , And now my Amintas with speed do expect me , For soon in Eizium with thee il'e be : You powers of Love to the Shades now direct me , Where I my Amintas may joyfully see . Thus since you have herd of two true Lovers Ruin , I hope this to others a warning will be , Since this to them both did prove and undoing , The fruits of disdain here you plainly may see ; Let those that are now bound fast in Loves Fetter , Endeavour to fly from Pride , Scorn and Disdain , The Fruits of Love storming , but seldom proves better , What in pleasure begins , too oft endeth in pain . FINIS . THE True Lovers Overthrow , While poor Amintas pin'd to Death , For Celia bright and fair , At last for him she lost her Breath , A grief beyond compare . To the Tune of State and Ambition . AH Cupid ! thou provest unkind and too cruel , a true loving Shepherd thus strangely to wound ; She that I counted my Love and my Jewel her hatred and enmity now I have found ; But let her prove Faithless , yet I will prove Loyal and though she does Tyrannise constant il'e be ; For she that hath given to me the denial , my Ruin and Destiny soon she will see , Here panting I lie and am always complaining , how she to her true Love hath proved severe ; And when I consider her , scorn and disdaining , from my blubber'd eyes then I part with a Tear : And panting just like a disconsolate Lover , try Celia how could'st thou be cruel to me ; As she her disdain so I folly discover , and how I am [ ? ] Now I of my Senses am strangely bereft , and captiv'd I am by the charms of her Eye ; Yet at my sad Torments she nothing is grieved , nor pities me not though in Fetters I lie , But if I at present am scorned and slighted , and nothing can prove more disdainful than she , Yet she without Question will once be requited , and then shee'l remember her scorning of me . 'Tis pity that Cruelty's pleasing unto her , and that in disdain she should take a delight ; For one time or other I fear 'twill undo her , and Tyrants but seldom get any thing by't ; What Creature so fair coul'd so slight a poor Lover ? that never was pleas'd till her Beauty he see ; No Riches nor Pleasure I prized above her , [ ? ] Well since 'tis my fate I must needs be contented , And under my burden must patiently lie ; What's for me allotted cannot be prevented : The worst she can do is to scorn till I Die And when for her sake , with this World I have parted Those that do outlive me will sorrowful be , And say the poor Shepherd he dy's broken hearted So a sorrowful Epitaph write over me . And when a long time He in sorrow had pined , At last he submitted to conquering Death ; His vitals decayed and his life He resigned And sighing did yield up his murmuring breath But when these sad tidings to Celia were carry'd That she her poor Shepherd no oftener should see Since he by her cruelty so had miscarry'd She cr'yd there is none so unhappy as me . Ah Shepherd most Faithful true , loyal , and constant Thou for thy fidelity payest to dear , Who'd think that thy doom I should work in and instant And now my own ruin I greatly do fear Yet 'twill be but justice if I am requited For cruel disdain and for storming of thee ; My joys I do fear now will soon be benighted , Then ruin and sorrow will wait upon me . But now 'tis too late my dear Love to recall thee , Thine eyes they are clos'd and thy Breath it is gone , Though such cruel Destiny chanc'd to befall thee , In Loves cooler Shades I will , meet thee anon ; My Conscience is prick'd and my Senses confounded , Wherever I go I thy Spirit do see , I grieve that to Death a true Lover I wounded , And now the same Fate is attending on me . I slight all the comforts that mortals can give me , And here on the Earth I no pleasure can take . There's nothing on this side the Grave can relieve me , I must languishing die for my true Lovers sake , And now my Amintas with speed do expect me , For soon in Eizium with thee il'e be : You powers of Love to the Shades now direct me , Where I my Amintas may joyfully see . Thus since you have herd of two true Lovers Ruin , I hope this to others a warning will be , Since this to them both did prove and undoing , The fruits of disdain here you plainly may see ; Let those that are now bound fast in Loves Fetter , Endeavour to fly from Pride , Scorn and Disdain , The Fruits of Love storming , but seldom proves better , What in pleasure begins , too oft endeth in pain . FINIS . 