r Englands Heroic Champion . Or the ever renowned General George Monck , through whose Vam - lor and prudence Englands ancient Liberties are restored , and a Full and Free Parliament now to be called , to the great joy of the Nation . Let the Trump of fame Found forth the name Of honourable actions To free this Land from factions . Then except of what is meant And pray for a free Parliament . To a pleasant new Northern Tune . GOod mayest thou be , as thou art great , Ever regarded , Or like Alexander complete , Richly rewarded , Gainst thy virtue none dar' stand , Exrluded Members now are , Back returned by thy care . Many miles did'st thou compass , Only us to free Nothing by thee too hard was , Compared to be , Keep us in thy prot [ e ] ction , We were all greatly distressed , Bring thou in all the best . Great Bonfires then was made , Expressing joy , Of us that sorrow did invade , Refresh our annoy , Guard us with thy aid we desire , Exaltations we will raise , Unto heaven in thy praise . Much good hast thou already done , Over this land , Now our hearts thou quite hast won , Command Command , Kindly we will entertain , Those that wear Excluded , For they have not intruded . Govern thou us by rightful laws , Exclude us not from Our just rights in any cause , Revenge us on Great Britins cruel hateful foes , Future dangers to prevent , For a full free Parliament . Millions daily thou mayest see , Owning thy worth , None of us from thee will flee , Carry us forth , Knowledge thou hast in each thing , We will Strive to give content , For a full free Parliament . The second part , to the same tune . GAther thou together Rights , Every man , Of ninty Burgesses and Knights , Revive again , Give to each man his due place , Let there be none absent , In a full free Parliament . May five hundred and eight Only now fit Now the whole Land takes delight Commending thy wit ; Knew the world but thy worth , They would not strive to prevent A full free Parliament . Great numbers of them are dead , Envy control'd , Others then away was led Round the pinfold ; Great was our deliverance To thousands , to their content For a full free Parliament . Make four hundred and twenty Own their seclusion Nay the House being empty Caused confusion , Keeping all to themselves , Which they may now repent Before a full Parliament . Great worth hath thee so renown'd Even in these days Of thy worthy Actions crown'd , Right is the praise Good men of thee relate This thy noble Actium Of Parliaments election . May we but once live to see Our happiness Now enlarged be by thee Could we express Knowledge of our joyful State Which does breed our content In a full free Parliament Great Arthur with his Hasel sword Even ufoul'd , Oh rest you must upon my word , Return control'd , Give Durhams Bishopric away To the poor that now lament , Desiring a free Parliament . Many thousands he hath wronged , Out of disdain , Now give thou what to them belonged , Con once again , Keep back nothing from the poor , And strive not to prevent , A full free Parliament . Grave Arthur Caus'd the City gates , Eagerly fallen , O how every man him bates , Regards him small Geat in Justice was it then , The like dangers to prevent , Bring him before the Parliament . Many thousands him disdain , Out on his deeds , No good remembrance does remain , Coning proceeds , Keeping us now from those that would Breed us all discontent , God send us a free Parliament . London Printed for John Andrews at the white Lion near Pie-corner . J.W. r Englands Heroic Champion . Or the ever renowned General George Monck , through whose Vam - lor and prudence Englands ancient Liberties are restored , and a Full and Free Parliament now to be called , to the great joy of the Nation . Let the Trump of fame Found forth the name Of honourable actions To free this Land from factions . Then except of what is meant And pray for a free Parliament . To a pleasant new Northern Tune . GOod mayest thou be , as thou art great , Ever regarded , Or like Alexander complete , Richly rewarded , Gainst thy virtue none dar' stand , Exrluded Members now are , Back returned by thy care . Many miles did'st thou compass , Only us to free Nothing by thee too hard was , Compared to be , Keep us in thy prot [ e ] ction , We were all greatly distressed , Bring thou in all the best . Great Bonfires then was made , Expressing joy , Of us that sorrow did invade , Refresh our annoy , Guard us with thy aid we desire , Exaltations we will raise , Unto heaven in thy praise . Much good hast thou already done , Over this land , Now our hearts thou quite hast won , Command Command , Kindly we will entertain , Those that wear Excluded , For they have not intruded . Govern thou us by rightful laws , Exclude us not from Our just rights in any cause , Revenge us on Great Britins cruel hateful foes , Future dangers to prevent , For a full free Parliament . Millions daily thou mayest see , Owning thy worth , None of us from thee will flee , Carry us forth , Knowledge thou hast in each thing , We will Strive to give content , For a full free Parliament . The second part , to the same tune . GAther thou together Rights , Every man , Of ninty Burgesses and Knights , Revive again , Give to each man his due place , Let there be none absent , In a full free Parliament . May five hundred and eight Only now fit Now the whole Land takes delight Commending thy wit ; Knew the world but thy worth , They would not strive to prevent A full free Parliament . Great numbers of them are dead , Envy control'd , Others then away was led Round the pinfold ; Great was our deliverance To thousands , to their content For a full free Parliament . Make four hundred and twenty Own their seclusion Nay the House being empty Caused confusion , Keeping all to themselves , Which they may now repent Before a full Parliament . Great worth hath thee so renown'd Even in these days Of thy worthy Actions crown'd , Right is the praise Good men of thee relate This thy noble Actium Of Parliaments election . May we but once live to see Our happiness Now enlarged be by thee Could we express Knowledge of our joyful State Which does breed our content In a full free Parliament Great Arthur with his Hasel sword Even ufoul'd , Oh rest you must upon my word , Return control'd , Give Durhams Bishopric away To the poor that now lament , Desiring a free Parliament . Many thousands he hath wronged , Out of disdain , Now give thou what to them belonged , Con once again , Keep back nothing from the poor , And strive not to prevent , A full free Parliament . Grave Arthur Caus'd the City gates , Eagerly fallen , O how every man him bates , Regards him small Geat in Justice was it then , The like dangers to prevent , Bring him before the Parliament . Many thousands him disdain , Out on his deeds , No good remembrance does remain , Coning proceeds , Keeping us now from those that would Breed us all discontent , God send us a free Parliament . London Printed for John Andrews at the white Lion near Pie-corner . J.W. 