True Lovers Victory Or the Northern Couple agreed . With Sugared words and smiling looks He did charm her senses , That she did yield unto his Love For all her late pretences . To a rare Northern Tune , Or , Jennies Cog-wheel . A Bonny blithe Lad in the North Country , Whom Cupid had Wounded most craftily He met with his Love and he told her his mind , And thus he did greet her with words so kind . Come fit the down by me mine own sweet joy , Thou wilt quite kill me if thou prove coy . Should'st thou prove coy and not love me , Where shall I find such a one as thee . I have been at Wakes and I have been at Fares Yet ne'r could I meet one that with thee compares : Far have I travel'd yet never could find , One I lov'd like thee if thou prove so kind . Thou shalt have a gay Gown of the best , With gay fine Buskin's thy feet shall be dres with Caplets of Roses thy head shall be crown'd And thy pink Petticoat shall be lac'd round . WHen thou art dressed in thy Robes so gay , Thou shalt be seen like the Queen of May : The bonny young Lasses that lives by thee , Shall all take delight in thy company . We will go early to the brook side , And catch Fish as they do glide Every little Fish thy Prisoner shall be Thou shalt catch them and isle catch thee . The Birds in the Grove shall come at thy beck , And from thy Lily white hands they shall peck And while with their Notes about thee they play , I will sing thee a roundelay . Now let me kiss thy cherry lips fair , And praise all thy Features that are so rare : Thy forehead is high and lofty does rise , Thy sweet ruby lips and thy pretty black Eyes , I'le lie by thee all the cold night , Thou'st want nothing for thy delight . Thou shalt have any thing thou shalt have me Surely I have something that will please thee . She hearing her Lover Thus kindly complain From making him answer she could not refrain , She gave him her hand with a low courtesy , And thus she replied I'le have none but thee . Thy bonny fair face And thy words so sweet , Did conquer my heart When we first did meet , The [ r ] 's never a Lad In the North Country Shall ever have my favour but only thee , Then let us gang to the Kirk now with speed , For why I think long till we do the deed , Since I may have any thing I will have thee , Because thou hast something that will please me . Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , J. Wright J. Clarke . True Lovers Victory Or the Northern Couple agreed . With Sugared words and smiling looks He did charm her senses , That she did yield unto his Love For all her late pretences . To a rare Northern Tune , Or , Jennies Cog-wheel . A Bonny blithe Lad in the North Country , Whom Cupid had Wounded most craftily He met with his Love and he told her his mind , And thus he did greet her with words so kind . Come fit the down by me mine own sweet joy , Thou wilt quite kill me if thou prove coy . Should'st thou prove coy and not love me , Where shall I find such a one as thee . I have been at Wakes and I have been at Fares Yet ne'r could I meet one that with thee compares : Far have I travel'd yet never could find , One I lov'd like thee if thou prove so kind . Thou shalt have a gay Gown of the best , With gay fine Buskin's thy feet shall be dres with Caplets of Roses thy head shall be crown'd And thy pink Petticoat shall be lac'd round . WHen thou art dressed in thy Robes so gay , Thou shalt be seen like the Queen of May : The bonny young Lasses that lives by thee , Shall all take delight in thy company . We will go early to the brook side , And catch Fish as they do glide Every little Fish thy Prisoner shall be Thou shalt catch them and isle catch thee . The Birds in the Grove shall come at thy beck , And from thy Lily white hands they shall peck And while with their Notes about thee they play , I will sing thee a roundelay . Now let me kiss thy cherry lips fair , And praise all thy Features that are so rare : Thy forehead is high and lofty does rise , Thy sweet ruby lips and thy pretty black Eyes , I'le lie by thee all the cold night , Thou'st want nothing for thy delight . Thou shalt have any thing thou shalt have me Surely I have something that will please thee . She hearing her Lover Thus kindly complain From making him answer she could not refrain , She gave him her hand with a low courtesy , And thus she replied I'le have none but thee . Thy bonny fair face And thy words so sweet , Did conquer my heart When we first did meet , The [ r ] 's never a Lad In the North Country Shall ever have my favour but only thee , Then let us gang to the Kirk now with speed , For why I think long till we do the deed , Since I may have any thing I will have thee , Because thou hast something that will please me . Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , J. Wright J. Clarke . 