Loves Mystery : OR , A parcel of clouded Waggery . 'Tis all Men's Fancy to commend , That which is smooth and witty ; More pleasant Lines were never penn'd , They are so wondrous pretty . Tune is , She lay naked in her Bed , etc ALl in the merry Month of May , the prime time of the Year ; A young man walk'd upon a day , with one he lov'd most dear : And as these Lovers secretly , within the Woods did walk ; Where Bears and Lyons lurking lie , and Sprites do nightly walk . This young man's will , was by his skill to find her Pulse to beatrice ; That he in love , his art might prove , to quench a furious hea Which she felt glowing in her veins , most ready to surprise ; Which caus'd him for to spare no pains , but freely to advice , This Damsel gay , a while to stay , under that pleasant shade ; 'Twas so obscure , they might be sure , they could not be betrayed : Nor did they fear , what prying Ear , might listen with pretence ; Since what they spoke , might still be took into a double sense . Her pretty tempting Foot and Legg , his Senses so did charm ; He said , My Dear , if I draw near , thou needest fear no harm : She bid him freely use his mind , so that he would not flatter ; He joy'd to see she was so kind , and long'd for to be at her . He took her in his Arms so smooth , in truth I do not mock ; Not meaning any harm at all , he strait took up her --- Block Whereon she sat , poor silly Maid , to rest her wearied bones ; But she , being no whit afraid , caught hold upon his --- Thumbs Which made him then for to cry Oh! that all his face did wrinkle ; But she being not at all dismayed , catch'd hold upon his --- Pimple Which then was growing on his face ; But let this Pimple pass , For there is none but may suppose , she was a jovial Lass. The second part , to the same Tune . He venture'd lowly , being tall , and in his Speeches blunt , He made no more , but took up all , and catch'd her by the --- Plump Read Cheeks , so comely that did show ; which caus'd him still to pluck her : Likewise he had a mighty mind , to Kiss , to Cull , and --- Duck her . Pish fie away , she then did say , what needs all this doing ? If you will now be ruled by me , wee'l use small time in Woein [ g ] : I'le lay me down upon the ground , among these sliding Seggs , And all my Coats I'le tuck up round , and spread abroad my --- Eggs Which I have in my Basket here , fast to my Girdle tuck'd ; Then I shall be in handsome Gear , and ready to be --- Duck'd Into some pleasant running Stream , for now's the time o'th year , To wash and scour every thing , both Hands , Face , Eyes and Eare. He presently with might and main , finding his Girl so quick ; Resolving for to ease her pain , pull'd out a standing --- Stick - Which he had growing in that place , it was so smooth and good : He put fresh colour in her face , and sweetly stirr'd her blood . She cry'd , Oh fie , you are so rude , unless you make and end , We are so close together Glew'd ; I shall be forc'd to --- Rend - My Smock in sunder to be gone , or else I am beguiled ; If we should stay together long , I sure should be with --- Wild - Beasts soar affrighted , in these Woods , for there the danger lies ; I feel the little streaming Floods , run trickling down my --- Eyes - For fear of dangers that ensue , such pretty wanton play ; Therefore leave off , I have my endue , and dare no longer stay . He courteously took up his Mate , that sported underneath ; And lovingly this Couple sat , for to recover breath : And sure they might without offence , exchange some harmless Kisses , Hee's not alive , that will not strive , for to enjoy such Blisses . Let none these modest Lines mistake , nor put themselves to trouble ; By false constructions for to make , this pleasant sense seem double : If any Evil here lie hid , 'tis but imagination ; For what this Couple said or did , was for their Recreation . FINIS . London , Printed for William Kenrick at the Black-spread Eagle in the Old-Baily . Loves Mystery : OR , A parcel of clouded Waggery . 'Tis all Men's Fancy to commend , That which is smooth and witty ; More pleasant Lines were never penn'd , They are so wondrous pretty . Tune is , She lay naked in her Bed , etc ALl in the merry Month of May , the prime time of the Year ; A young man walk'd upon a day , with one he lov'd most dear : And as these Lovers secretly , within the Woods did walk ; Where Bears and Lyons lurking lie , and Sprites do nightly walk . This young man's will , was by his skill to find her Pulse to beatrice ; That he in love , his art might prove , to quench a furious hea Which she felt glowing in her veins , most ready to surprise ; Which caus'd him for to spare no pains , but freely to advice , This Damsel gay , a while to stay , under that pleasant shade ; 'Twas so obscure , they might be sure , they could not be betrayed : Nor did they fear , what prying Ear , might listen with pretence ; Since what they spoke , might still be took into a double sense . Her pretty tempting Foot and Legg , his Senses so did charm ; He said , My Dear , if I draw near , thou needest fear no harm : She bid him freely use his mind , so that he would not flatter ; He joy'd to see she was so kind , and long'd for to be at her . He took her in his Arms so smooth , in truth I do not mock ; Not meaning any harm at all , he strait took up her --- Block Whereon she sat , poor silly Maid , to rest her wearied bones ; But she , being no whit afraid , caught hold upon his --- Thumbs Which made him then for to cry Oh! that all his face did wrinkle ; But she being not at all dismayed , catch'd hold upon his --- Pimple Which then was growing on his face ; But let this Pimple pass , For there is none but may suppose , she was a jovial Lass. The second part , to the same Tune . He venture'd lowly , being tall , and in his Speeches blunt , He made no more , but took up all , and catch'd her by the --- Plump Read Cheeks , so comely that did show ; which caus'd him still to pluck her : Likewise he had a mighty mind , to Kiss , to Cull , and --- Duck her . Pish fie away , she then did say , what needs all this doing ? If you will now be ruled by me , wee'l use small time in Woein [ g ] : I'le lay me down upon the ground , among these sliding Seggs , And all my Coats I'le tuck up round , and spread abroad my --- Eggs Which I have in my Basket here , fast to my Girdle tuck'd ; Then I shall be in handsome Gear , and ready to be --- Duck'd Into some pleasant running Stream , for now's the time o'th year , To wash and scour every thing , both Hands , Face , Eyes and Eare. He presently with might and main , finding his Girl so quick ; Resolving for to ease her pain , pull'd out a standing --- Stick - Which he had growing in that place , it was so smooth and good : He put fresh colour in her face , and sweetly stirr'd her blood . She cry'd , Oh fie , you are so rude , unless you make and end , We are so close together Glew'd ; I shall be forc'd to --- Rend - My Smock in sunder to be gone , or else I am beguiled ; If we should stay together long , I sure should be with --- Wild - Beasts soar affrighted , in these Woods , for there the danger lies ; I feel the little streaming Floods , run trickling down my --- Eyes - For fear of dangers that ensue , such pretty wanton play ; Therefore leave off , I have my endue , and dare no longer stay . He courteously took up his Mate , that sported underneath ; And lovingly this Couple sat , for to recover breath : And sure they might without offence , exchange some harmless Kisses , Hee's not alive , that will not strive , for to enjoy such Blisses . Let none these modest Lines mistake , nor put themselves to trouble ; By false constructions for to make , this pleasant sense seem double : If any Evil here lie hid , 'tis but imagination ; For what this Couple said or did , was for their Recreation . FINIS . London , Printed for William Kenrick at the Black-spread Eagle in the Old-Baily . 