Robin Hood and the Butcher . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Beggar . COme all you brave Gallants & listen a while with a heigh down down and a down , that are in this Bower within . For of Robin Hood , that Archer good , a Song I intend for to sing . Upon a time it chanced so , with a heigh , etc bold Robin in the Forest did spy , A jolly Butcher , with a bonny fine Mare , with his flesh to the Market did high . Good morrow good fellow , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc what food hast , tell unto me ? And thy trade to me tell , & where thou dost dwell for I like well thy company . The Butcher he answered jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc no matter where I dwell , For a Butcher I am , and to Nottingham , I am going my flesh to fell . Whats the price of thy flesh , said jolly Robin with a heigh , etc come tell it soon unto me , And the price of thy Mare , be she never so dear for a Butcher fain would I be . The price of my flesh , the Butcher reply'd , with a heigh , etc I soon will tell unto thee . With my bonny Mare , & they are not dear , four Mark thou must give unto me . Four Mark I will give thee , said jolly Ro-bin , with a heigh , etc four Mark it shall be thy Fee , Thy money come count , and let me mount , for a Butcher I fain would be . Now Robin he is to Nottingham gone , with a heigh , etc his Butchers trade for to begin . With a good intent , to the Sheriff he went , and there he took up his Inn . When other Butchers did open their meat with a heigh , etc bold Robin he then begun , But how for to fell he knew not well for a Butcher he was but young . When other Butchers no meat could fell , with a heigh , etc Robin god both Gold and Fee , For he sold more meat for one penny , than others could do for three . But when he sold his meat so fast , with a heigh , etc , no Butcher by him could thrive , For he sold more meat for one penny , than others could do for five . Which made the Butchers of Nottingham , with a heigh , etc to study as they did stand , Saying , surely he was some Prodigal , that had sold his Father's Land. The Butchers they stepped to jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc acquainted with him for to be , Come brother one said , we be all of one trade come will you go dine with me ? Accursed of his heart , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc that a Brother will deny : I will go with you my Brothers true , and as fast as I can high . Robin Hood and the Butcher . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Beggar . COme all you brave Gallants & listen a while with a heigh down down and a down , that are in this Bower within . For of Robin Hood , that Archer good , a Song I intend for to sing . Upon a time it chanced so , with a heigh , etc bold Robin in the Forest did spy , A jolly Butcher , with a bonny fine Mare , with his flesh to the Market did high . Good morrow good fellow , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc what food hast , tell unto me ? And thy trade to me tell , & where thou dost dwell for I like well thy company . The Butcher he answered jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc no matter where I dwell , For a Butcher I am , and to Nottingham , I am going my flesh to fell . Whats the price of thy flesh , said jolly Robin with a heigh , etc come tell it soon unto me , And the price of thy Mare , be she never so dear for a Butcher fain would I be . The price of my flesh , the Butcher reply'd , with a heigh , etc I soon will tell unto thee . With my bonny Mare , & they are not dear , four Mark thou must give unto me . Four Mark I will give thee , said jolly Ro-bin , with a heigh , etc four Mark it shall be thy Fee , Thy money come count , and let me mount , for a Butcher I fain would be . Now Robin he is to Nottingham gone , with a heigh , etc his Butchers trade for to begin . With a good intent , to the Sheriff he went , and there he took up his Inn . When other Butchers did open their meat with a heigh , etc bold Robin he then begun , But how for to fell he knew not well for a Butcher he was but young . When other Butchers no meat could fell , with a heigh , etc Robin god both Gold and Fee , For he sold more meat for one penny , than others could do for three . But when he sold his meat so fast , with a heigh , etc , no Butcher by him could thrive , For he sold more meat for one penny , than others could do for five . Which made the Butchers of Nottingham , with a heigh , etc to study as they did stand , Saying , surely he was some Prodigal , that had sold his Father's Land. The Butchers they stepped to jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc acquainted with him for to be , Come brother one said , we be all of one trade come will you go dine with me ? Accursed of his heart , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc that a Brother will deny : I will go with you my Brothers true , and as fast as I can high . 