r Two strings to a Bow ; or , The cunning Archer , Being A pleasant new ditty of a Soldier , that had two Lasses at one time That dearly loved him , and how he requited their kindness This lusty Soldier having been Ten years in Scotland , and near seen A London Lass , resolv'd to try , How much they priz [ ' ] worser Virginity . He lays close siege to two , and storms There Forts , but yet to marry scorns . To and excellent Scotish Tune , call'd Gilderoy . GIv [ e ] ear you lads and lasses all , to what I shall report , Of Maidens twain that loved dear , a Soldier their consort . A bonny La [ worser ] and blith' was he , and seem'd to love them both . But when they u [ r ] g'd ; to tie the knot , to marry he was loath . Full many years this Soldier brave in Scotland , boar his Arms. Under our Noble General , still free from Cupids Charms . But London Lasses , thought to win , and tempt him with their smiles . Which sub [ tO ] lie he a while receives at last them both beguiles . The first was Mal. a bouncing Lass , to whom he courteous was . And lovingly did kiss and Court , but mark what came to pass . When he had gain'd her tender heart , And Cupid had her shot , He scornfully disdains her thoughts , and swears he loves her not . Then she her service leaves in haste , a private life to live . Because that to her Master she , was loath offence to give , And that he might with freedom come , to vistt this his dear , On whom she spent her money free , in Ale , and in good Cheer , Thus she continued a while , and he came ofr unto her . whose sighed did please her wondrous well the Soldier sure did doe her . But when her stock grew low and poor his love it waxed cold . There was no chain could hold him fast , but only that of Gold . When thus she saw she slighted was , and could not catch the Game . With heavy moan she did repine and her hard fortune blame . While he with jovial lists did sing , and did contrive it so . That he had god another Lass , and two strings to his Bow. The second Part , to the same Tune HAving thus put his first lass off , the second comes in play . The which was pretty Dorothy : who was both fine and gay . To whom he does express his love , with amorous Glances many : And swears that she shall be his wife if ever he have any ; This did so pierce her tender heart with joy and great delight . That she her service proffer'd him , by day and eke by nigh Which he most kindly does accept , and void of dread or fear . He gets her in his Chamber close , one night , as you shall hear . In sober guise the Soldier goes : one night unto his bed . Where she must come in all the haste , to loose her Maidenhead . The people being all at rest , and every one asleep . The lass goes to his Chamber straight , and to his bed does creep . He that in bloody Battles fought , and lay in Frost and cold , Enduring hardships plentiful , against his foes so bold . Can now on's bed surprise a Fort , which no man ere did enter The Lady and the Owner gives , it him for his adventure . Her Master and her Mistress both , about the break of day . Awaking , called for their Maid , but she no word did say , She was in bed with her delight , and sporting with her dear . Not thinking that her Master call'd ; love would not let her hear . Then up her Master gets in haste , to find the poor lost sheep . And folded in the Soldiers Arms , he finds his Maid asleep . Then with one blow , upon her cheek he wakes her from her dear , And kicks the lassee out of doors . No Whores ( quoth he ) live here . When this black chance was once found out , the lass she fain would marry . The Soldier he refuses quit , tells her he must be wary ; But she perplexed , does urge him still , and begs the same with Tears . Quoth he , I am not in your debt , I paid you your arrears . Take heed you loving lasses . be warn'd by my report . Trust not a lusty Soldier , for hee'l soon take your Fort , And then you must turn chamber maids alas my chance is so . The Soldier he will shoot no more , h'as broke two strings to's bow Finis . London Printed , for Charls Tyu . , on London-bridge r Two strings to a Bow ; or , The cunning Archer , Being A pleasant new ditty of a Soldier , that had two Lasses at one time That dearly loved him , and how he requited their kindness This lusty Soldier having been Ten years in Scotland , and near seen A London Lass , resolv'd to try , How much they priz [ ' ] worser Virginity . He lays close siege to two , and storms There Forts , but yet to marry scorns . To and excellent Scotish Tune , call'd Gilderoy . GIv [ e ] ear you lads and lasses all , to what I shall report , Of Maidens twain that loved dear , a Soldier their consort . A bonny La [ worser ] and blith' was he , and seem'd to love them both . But when they u [ r ] g'd ; to tie the knot , to marry he was loath . Full many years this Soldier brave in Scotland , boar his Arms. Under our Noble General , still free from Cupids Charms . But London Lasses , thought to win , and tempt him with their smiles . Which sub [ tO ] lie he a while receives at last them both beguiles . The first was Mal. a bouncing Lass , to whom he courteous was . And lovingly did kiss and Court , but mark what came to pass . When he had gain'd her tender heart , And Cupid had her shot , He scornfully disdains her thoughts , and swears he loves her not . Then she her service leaves in haste , a private life to live . Because that to her Master she , was loath offence to give , And that he might with freedom come , to vistt this his dear , On whom she spent her money free , in Ale , and in good Cheer , Thus she continued a while , and he came ofr unto her . whose sighed did please her wondrous well the Soldier sure did doe her . But when her stock grew low and poor his love it waxed cold . There was no chain could hold him fast , but only that of Gold . When thus she saw she slighted was , and could not catch the Game . With heavy moan she did repine and her hard fortune blame . While he with jovial lists did sing , and did contrive it so . That he had god another Lass , and two strings to his Bow. The second Part , to the same Tune HAving thus put his first lass off , the second comes in play . The which was pretty Dorothy : who was both fine and gay . To whom he does express his love , with amorous Glances many : And swears that she shall be his wife if ever he have any ; This did so pierce her tender heart with joy and great delight . That she her service proffer'd him , by day and eke by nigh Which he most kindly does accept , and void of dread or fear . He gets her in his Chamber close , one night , as you shall hear . In sober guise the Soldier goes : one night unto his bed . Where she must come in all the haste , to loose her Maidenhead . The people being all at rest , and every one asleep . The lass goes to his Chamber straight , and to his bed does creep . He that in bloody Battles fought , and lay in Frost and cold , Enduring hardships plentiful , against his foes so bold . Can now on's bed surprise a Fort , which no man ere did enter The Lady and the Owner gives , it him for his adventure . Her Master and her Mistress both , about the break of day . Awaking , called for their Maid , but she no word did say , She was in bed with her delight , and sporting with her dear . Not thinking that her Master call'd ; love would not let her hear . Then up her Master gets in haste , to find the poor lost sheep . And folded in the Soldiers Arms , he finds his Maid asleep . Then with one blow , upon her cheek he wakes her from her dear , And kicks the lassee out of doors . No Whores ( quoth he ) live here . When this black chance was once found out , the lass she fain would marry . The Soldier he refuses quit , tells her he must be wary ; But she perplexed , does urge him still , and begs the same with Tears . Quoth he , I am not in your debt , I paid you your arrears . Take heed you loving lasses . be warn'd by my report . Trust not a lusty Soldier , for hee'l soon take your Fort , And then you must turn chamber maids alas my chance is so . The Soldier he will shoot no more , h'as broke two strings to's bow Finis . London Printed , for Charls Tyu . , on London-bridge 