THE Taunton-Dean Damosel : OR , THE Pleasant discourse between Nelly and her Mother as they were sitting in a Meadow , on a May-morning . To the Tune of , She Scotch Haymakers . Licens'd according to Order . NEar the Town of Taunton there lives a bonny Lass , Who with her loving Mother sat chating on the Grassr , 'Twas about the Month of May , to her Mother she did say , There's lusty Robin would be bobbing , and the wanton play : Under my apron , when we are alone ; And tells me with a smile that I am a Woman grown , As being in my Teens ; then on my Breast he leans , Now , tell me Mother , loving Mother , tell me what he means ? Mother he will kiss me a dozen times or more , And solemny declares that he has for me in store , A delightful pretty Toy , which would fill my Heart with joy , And charming pleasure out of measure , if I'd not be coy , Like a rich Coral , it was , he cry'd , Adorn'd with pretty Bells' , and I cannot tell what beside : Then on my Breast he leans , and tells me of the Teens , Now , tell me Mother , loving Mother , tell me what he means ? When I came from Dancing last Holiday at night He met me in the Meadow , and call'd me his delight , Then with that he laid me down , for to give me a Green-gown There did he hug me , tease , and tug me , I at first did frown , But , e're we parted , he pleas'd me so , That as I am a Maid was loath to let him go ; Sure such a Gown of green , before I ne'er had seen , Oh , loving Mother , tell me , Mother , what did Robin mean ? Then we went together along my Father's Field He told me I had something that must not be conceal'd , Then he catch'd me by the knees , and further by degrees , He likewise ventur'd , as we enter'd , in a plate of Peas , Where he did tumble me all along , Declaing of a truth he would do me little wrong ; Quoth he , we are not seen , we're shelter'd by the Green , Oh! loving Moiher , tell me , Mother , what did Robin mean ? In the morning early he to my Chamber came , And told me that my Beauty , had put him in a flame ; Yet I thought he did but flout , for I look'd me round about , And see no fire , he drew nigher , I'd have thrust him out ; But to my side , he so close did creep , That with his cunning tricks , he did spoil my Morning : slleep He on my Breast did lean , then god in between , Pray , loving Mother , tell me , Mother , what did Robin mean The MOTHER's Reply , Oh! you silly Baggage , her loving Mother soid , When he came to your Chamber , you should have call'd for aid ; Would you let him come to bed , now before that you was wed , By Cock and Bacon , he has taken , your dear Maidenhead ; I am distracted this Day to see : But Nelly she reply'd , It is all a case to me ; I would have call'd , I'll vow , but , faith , I knew not how , Then cease your passion , and vexation , who can help it now ? If you will be quiet and cease your mournful tail , I'll go to honest Robin , I know I may prevail , If he's in merry vain , he will give it me again , But all your whinning , and your pining , Mother , is in vain ; With that he Mother , she call'd her whore ; But Nelly she reply'd , you was so your self before ; I would have call'd , I'll vow , but , faith , I knew not how , It was allotted he has god it , who can help it now ? London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the angel in guilt-spur-street THE Taunton-Dean Damosel : OR , THE Pleasant discourse between Nelly and her Mother as they were sitting in a Meadow , on a May-morning . To the Tune of , She Scotch Haymakers . Licens'd according to Order . NEar the Town of Taunton there lives a bonny Lass , Who with her loving Mother sat chating on the Grassr , 'Twas about the Month of May , to her Mother she did say , There's lusty Robin would be bobbing , and the wanton play : Under my apron , when we are alone ; And tells me with a smile that I am a Woman grown , As being in my Teens ; then on my Breast he leans , Now , tell me Mother , loving Mother , tell me what he means ? Mother he will kiss me a dozen times or more , And solemny declares that he has for me in store , A delightful pretty Toy , which would fill my Heart with joy , And charming pleasure out of measure , if I'd not be coy , Like a rich Coral , it was , he cry'd , Adorn'd with pretty Bells' , and I cannot tell what beside : Then on my Breast he leans , and tells me of the Teens , Now , tell me Mother , loving Mother , tell me what he means ? When I came from Dancing last Holiday at night He met me in the Meadow , and call'd me his delight , Then with that he laid me down , for to give me a Green-gown There did he hug me , tease , and tug me , I at first did frown , But , e're we parted , he pleas'd me so , That as I am a Maid was loath to let him go ; Sure such a Gown of green , before I ne'er had seen , Oh , loving Mother , tell me , Mother , what did Robin mean ? Then we went together along my Father's Field He told me I had something that must not be conceal'd , Then he catch'd me by the knees , and further by degrees , He likewise ventur'd , as we enter'd , in a plate of Peas , Where he did tumble me all along , Declaing of a truth he would do me little wrong ; Quoth he , we are not seen , we're shelter'd by the Green , Oh! loving Moiher , tell me , Mother , what did Robin mean ? In the morning early he to my Chamber came , And told me that my Beauty , had put him in a flame ; Yet I thought he did but flout , for I look'd me round about , And see no fire , he drew nigher , I'd have thrust him out ; But to my side , he so close did creep , That with his cunning tricks , he did spoil my Morning : slleep He on my Breast did lean , then god in between , Pray , loving Mother , tell me , Mother , what did Robin mean The MOTHER's Reply , Oh! you silly Baggage , her loving Mother soid , When he came to your Chamber , you should have call'd for aid ; Would you let him come to bed , now before that you was wed , By Cock and Bacon , he has taken , your dear Maidenhead ; I am distracted this Day to see : But Nelly she reply'd , It is all a case to me ; I would have call'd , I'll vow , but , faith , I knew not how , Then cease your passion , and vexation , who can help it now ? If you will be quiet and cease your mournful tail , I'll go to honest Robin , I know I may prevail , If he's in merry vain , he will give it me again , But all your whinning , and your pining , Mother , is in vain ; With that he Mother , she call'd her whore ; But Nelly she reply'd , you was so your self before ; I would have call'd , I'll vow , but , faith , I knew not how , It was allotted he has god it , who can help it now ? London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the angel in guilt-spur-street 