v The Sorrowful Complaint Of Conscience and Plain-Dealing . Against Millers , Usurers , Tailors , and Hostisses , By which poor Conscience and Plain - Dealing was sufficiently abused , as you shall hear by these following lines To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Entered according to Order . AS through the City I passed of late Plain Dealing I met in a sorrowful state , Both Cold and WORSER [ eject ] ed , and slighted with all , His grief it was great , and his comfort was small : Poor Conscience stood by him and clearly dismay'd , To think that they would not have him in their trade For most of the Nation upon them did frown , Plain-Dealing and Conscience is clearly run down . We have been a ranging the Nation all round , To seek entertainment , yet none can be found ; The Graziers and Farmers were all in a rage , Against poor plain-Dealing they vow'd to engage ; Each Miller came out with a lusty great Club , And bid us be gone , or our sides they would drub , And thus we were posted through every Town , Plain-Dealing and Conscience was clearly run down . For thus said the Millers if Conscience should stay , [ We then must ] give half of our profit away ; [ For out of a Bushel we can't take a Peck , But Conscience will presently give us a check . ] And Plain-Dealing too he is one of the crew , that straight way will cry we took more then our endue : For this very reason upon us they frown , Plain-Dealing and Conscience was clearly run down . Our Enemies daily increased so fast , That up to the City we traveled at last , For good entertainment we much did not fear , But when we come there we were never the near : The Misers whose coffers was cram'd well with gold Plain Dealing and conscience they would not behold , But knitting their brows , and upon them did frown Plain Dealing and Conscience is clearly run down The Usurers cry'd they must both be deny'd , Should we entertain them then what would betide , Of this our Silver and plentiful store , The which we have got by grinding the poor : We should have no comfort , peace , quiet , nor rest , If conscience should harbour or lodge in our breast , For this very reason upon us they frown , [ Plain-Dealing and Conscience is clearly run down . ] But when we beheld how the Misers did frown , We then went among all the Tailors in Town , The Tailors no sooner of Conscience did hear , But then how they trembled and quaked for fear : But yet to poor Conscience they gave and abuse , And threw at Plain Dealing their shears & their goose , Then knitting their brows upon us did frown , Plain-Dealing , etc The Tailors discoursed and held this dispute , We can't pinch a Coat in the making a Suit , But Conscience will presently fly in our face , With frights and with fears of a future disgrace : And thus he would have our profit but small , For Conscience allows us no Cabbidge at all , This is the main reason upon us they frown , Plain-Dealing , etc Poor Conscience he then to the Alewives did go , But yet they no favour nor friendship would show : The Host he did fret , and their wives they did fume And would not so much as show Conscience a room For fear he should [ i ] unto Extravegance run , And tell them of all their old tricks they had done , For this very reason upon us they frown , Plain-Dealing , etc 'Tis poor Men that Labour & brings them the coin Which decked them in Silks and in Laces so fine , When may be their wives & their children may lack Both food for their bells and clothes to their back Yet two pots for one they will commonly score , But Conscience will sharply reprove them therefore For this very reason the Hostess does frown . Plain-Dealing , etc The Alewives in order your stomachs to fit , Will bring in the morning a Relishing bit , And these are the baits and the snares which they lay To tempt and allure men to tarry all day Then calling for Brandy , Tobacco , and Beer , Ah then how the Hostis will simper and sneer , And these are the tricks of the most in the town , Plain-Dealing , etc Then learn to be thrifty before you grow Old , For Age is despised and Charity's cold : For should you now labour and bring them the gains , They then would but call you Old sot for your pains Then let these few lines be your rule and your guide , For now is the time for to keep down their Pride , Then joy will increase and your comforts excel , Then keep a good Conscience and all will do well . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street . v The Sorrowful Complaint Of Conscience and Plain-Dealing . Against Millers , Usurers , Tailors , and Hostisses , By which poor Conscience and Plain - Dealing was sufficiently abused , as you shall hear by these following lines To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Entered according to Order . AS through the City I passed of late Plain Dealing I met in a sorrowful state , Both Cold and WORSER [ eject ] ed , and slighted with all , His grief it was great , and his comfort was small : Poor Conscience stood by him and clearly dismay'd , To think that they would not have him in their trade For most of the Nation upon them did frown , Plain-Dealing and Conscience is clearly run down . We have been a ranging the Nation all round , To seek entertainment , yet none can be found ; The Graziers and Farmers were all in a rage , Against poor plain-Dealing they vow'd to engage ; Each Miller came out with a lusty great Club , And bid us be gone , or our sides they would drub , And thus we were posted through every Town , Plain-Dealing and Conscience was clearly run down . For thus said the Millers if Conscience should stay , [ We then must ] give half of our profit away ; [ For out of a Bushel we can't take a Peck , But Conscience will presently give us a check . ] And Plain-Dealing too he is one of the crew , that straight way will cry we took more then our endue : For this very reason upon us they frown , Plain-Dealing and Conscience was clearly run down . Our Enemies daily increased so fast , That up to the City we traveled at last , For good entertainment we much did not fear , But when we come there we were never the near : The Misers whose coffers was cram'd well with gold Plain Dealing and conscience they would not behold , But knitting their brows , and upon them did frown Plain Dealing and Conscience is clearly run down The Usurers cry'd they must both be deny'd , Should we entertain them then what would betide , Of this our Silver and plentiful store , The which we have got by grinding the poor : We should have no comfort , peace , quiet , nor rest , If conscience should harbour or lodge in our breast , For this very reason upon us they frown , [ Plain-Dealing and Conscience is clearly run down . ] But when we beheld how the Misers did frown , We then went among all the Tailors in Town , The Tailors no sooner of Conscience did hear , But then how they trembled and quaked for fear : But yet to poor Conscience they gave and abuse , And threw at Plain Dealing their shears & their goose , Then knitting their brows upon us did frown , Plain-Dealing , etc The Tailors discoursed and held this dispute , We can't pinch a Coat in the making a Suit , But Conscience will presently fly in our face , With frights and with fears of a future disgrace : And thus he would have our profit but small , For Conscience allows us no Cabbidge at all , This is the main reason upon us they frown , Plain-Dealing , etc Poor Conscience he then to the Alewives did go , But yet they no favour nor friendship would show : The Host he did fret , and their wives they did fume And would not so much as show Conscience a room For fear he should [ i ] unto Extravegance run , And tell them of all their old tricks they had done , For this very reason upon us they frown , Plain-Dealing , etc 'Tis poor Men that Labour & brings them the coin Which decked them in Silks and in Laces so fine , When may be their wives & their children may lack Both food for their bells and clothes to their back Yet two pots for one they will commonly score , But Conscience will sharply reprove them therefore For this very reason the Hostess does frown . Plain-Dealing , etc The Alewives in order your stomachs to fit , Will bring in the morning a Relishing bit , And these are the baits and the snares which they lay To tempt and allure men to tarry all day Then calling for Brandy , Tobacco , and Beer , Ah then how the Hostis will simper and sneer , And these are the tricks of the most in the town , Plain-Dealing , etc Then learn to be thrifty before you grow Old , For Age is despised and Charity's cold : For should you now labour and bring them the gains , They then would but call you Old sot for your pains Then let these few lines be your rule and your guide , For now is the time for to keep down their Pride , Then joy will increase and your comforts excel , Then keep a good Conscience and all will do well . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street . 