A pretty new Dity : OR , A young Lasses Resolution , As her mind I truly scan , Who shows in conclusion , She loves a handsome young man . To the tune of I know what I know , YOu Maids and young men , I pray you give ear , And with hand and pen , I'll plainly declare , Of a Maids resolution , which to love is wone , And in the conclusion , She'll have a handsome young man . Quoth she , I am young , and now in my prime , Though some stay too long , yet I'll loose no time , I will have some pleasure as soon as I can , What care I for treasure . I'll have a handsome young man . Some Maidens are coy , and strange in their carriage , And scorn to enjoy , a neat young man in marriage : Some wed for money , and some wed for Land , But I'll choose a honey , shall be a handsome young man . I have known some Maids , that have denied men , And afterwards glad to obtain them again : They will not , and will , thus will they withstand , But I'll use my skill , to have a handsome young man . Some happily will conjecture of me , That I desire still to live wantonly : No I am a Lass sure , that live unwedded can , And much will endure for a handsome young man . I would have you know , that I am not so base , Nor shall our sex so by me have disgrace : No , I have some treasure , beside house and Land , Therefore I'll take pleasure with a handsome young man . The man that I'll choose , shall be of good size , Yet I'll none refuse if that he be wise : With handsome complexion , neat foot , leg , and hand , This is my affection , to have such a man . If I wed a fool , with great store of treasure , Then hee'l pine and whule , and debar me of pleasure : Hee'l tell me of fine Gowns , Kertles , Mask and Fan , For a thousand pounds I'll not wed such a man The second part , To the same tune . ANd further then that , If I wed with a clown , Hee'l answer me What , and with anger will frown : Then must I beware , perchance with his hand , Hee'l strike me o'th ear ; but I'll have no such man . And many there are , that are somewhat jealous , But I'll have a care , and match no such fellows , Their wives near to men , must not fit nor stand , But their heads ache then , o hang up such a man . Loe thus I have shown , the conditions of some , But none can be known , till to trial they come : And I am inclined as soon as I can , For to be joined , with a handsome young man . Some Maidens do choose , for to have Tradesmen . And some will refuse them as much again : But for my own part , as at first I began . I love with my heart a handsome young man . Let him be a Tailor , or a neat Shoemaker , A Weaver or Glover , a Brewer or Baker : Be he neat or comely my love is soon wone , For my mind is only , of a handsome young man . If that he be gallant , or mean in apparel , If his looks be valiant , to maintain his quarrel , Then shall he be welcome unto pretty Nan , For I am delightsome to a handsome young man . I pass not what name , he is called by , If that I can frame , to love him truly , Either Dicke or Robin , Humphery , Will , or John , Any one me shall win , that's a handsome young man . And thus I conclude , and here end my Song , Let none think me rude , nor large of my tongue : For I am intended , as first I began , Then let me be friended , with a handsome young man . FINIS . Imprinted at London for H.G. A pretty new Dity : OR , A young Lasses Resolution , As her mind I truly scan , Who shows in conclusion , She loves a handsome young man . To the tune of I know what I know , YOu Maids and young men , I pray you give ear , And with hand and pen , I'll plainly declare , Of a Maids resolution , which to love is wone , And in the conclusion , She'll have a handsome young man . Quoth she , I am young , and now in my prime , Though some stay too long , yet I'll loose no time , I will have some pleasure as soon as I can , What care I for treasure . I'll have a handsome young man . Some Maidens are coy , and strange in their carriage , And scorn to enjoy , a neat young man in marriage : Some wed for money , and some wed for Land , But I'll choose a honey , shall be a handsome young man . I have known some Maids , that have denied men , And afterwards glad to obtain them again : They will not , and will , thus will they withstand , But I'll use my skill , to have a handsome young man . Some happily will conjecture of me , That I desire still to live wantonly : No I am a Lass sure , that live unwedded can , And much will endure for a handsome young man . I would have you know , that I am not so base , Nor shall our sex so by me have disgrace : No , I have some treasure , beside house and Land , Therefore I'll take pleasure with a handsome young man . The man that I'll choose , shall be of good size , Yet I'll none refuse if that he be wise : With handsome complexion , neat foot , leg , and hand , This is my affection , to have such a man . If I wed a fool , with great store of treasure , Then hee'l pine and whule , and debar me of pleasure : Hee'l tell me of fine Gowns , Kertles , Mask and Fan , For a thousand pounds I'll not wed such a man The second part , To the same tune . ANd further then that , If I wed with a clown , Hee'l answer me What , and with anger will frown : Then must I beware , perchance with his hand , Hee'l strike me o'th ear ; but I'll have no such man . And many there are , that are somewhat jealous , But I'll have a care , and match no such fellows , Their wives near to men , must not fit nor stand , But their heads ache then , o hang up such a man . Loe thus I have shown , the conditions of some , But none can be known , till to trial they come : And I am inclined as soon as I can , For to be joined , with a handsome young man . Some Maidens do choose , for to have Tradesmen . And some will refuse them as much again : But for my own part , as at first I began . I love with my heart a handsome young man . Let him be a Tailor , or a neat Shoemaker , A Weaver or Glover , a Brewer or Baker : Be he neat or comely my love is soon wone , For my mind is only , of a handsome young man . If that he be gallant , or mean in apparel , If his looks be valiant , to maintain his quarrel , Then shall he be welcome unto pretty Nan , For I am delightsome to a handsome young man . I pass not what name , he is called by , If that I can frame , to love him truly , Either Dicke or Robin , Humphery , Will , or John , Any one me shall win , that's a handsome young man . And thus I conclude , and here end my Song , Let none think me rude , nor large of my tongue : For I am intended , as first I began , Then let me be friended , with a handsome young man . FINIS . Imprinted at London for H.G. 