The Life and Death of the Famous THOMAS STUKELY : And English Gallant in time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended his Life in a Battle of three Kings of Barbary . Tune is , King Henry's going to Bulloign , etc IN the West of England , Born there was I understand , a famous Gallant was he in his days , By birth , a wealthy Clothier's son , Deeds of wonders he hath done , to purchase him a long and lasting praise . If I should tell his story , Pride was all his glory , and Lusty Stukely , he was call'd in Court ; He serv'd a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the best , maintaining of himself in gallant sort . Being thus esteemed , And everywhere well deemed , he gain'd the favour of a London Dame , Daughter to and Alderman , Curtis she was called then , to whom a suitor gallantly he came . When she his person spied , He could not be denied , so brave a Gentleman he was to see ; She was quickly made his wife , In weal or woe to led her life , her Father willing , thereto did agree . Thus in state and pleasure , Full many days they measure , till cruel Death with his regardless spite , Boar old Curtis to the grave , A thing that Stukely wished to have , that he might revel all in gold so bright . He was no sooner tombed , But Stukely he presumed to spend a hundred pound a day in waste ; The greatest Gallants in the land , Had Stukely's purse at their command , thus merrily the time away he passed . Taverns and ordinaries , Were his chiefest braveries , golden angels there flew up and down ; Riots were his best delight , With stately feasting day and nigh , in Court and City thus he wone renown . Thus wasting lands and living , By this lawless giving , at length he sold the pavements of the yard , Which cover'd were with blocks of tin , Old Curtis left the same to him , which he consumed lately as you've herd . Whereat his wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved , 'Make much of me dear Husband , she did say . 'I'll make much more of thee ( said he ) 'Than any one shall verily , 'I'll fell thy clothes and so I'll go my way . Cruelly thus hard hearted , Away from her he parted , and travell'd into Italy with speed ; There he flourished many a day In his silks and rich array , and did the pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the Lady's pleasure , To give him goods and treasure , for to maintain him in great pomp and fame ; At last came news assuredly , Of a fought battle in Barbary , and he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble Gallant , Sold both land and talon to follow Stukely in his famous fight ; Whereas three Kings in person would Adventurously with courage bold , within this battle show themselves in fight . Stukely , and his followers all Of the King of Portugal , had entertainment like to Gentlemen ; The King affected Stukely so , That he his secrets all did know , and boar his royal standard now and then . Upon this day of honour Each man did show his banner , Morocco and the King of Barbary ; Portugal and all his train , Bravely glittering on the plain , and gave the onset there most valiantly . The cannons they rebounded , Thundering guns resounded , Kill kill then was all the soldiers cry ; Mangled men lay on the ground , And with blood the earth was drown'd , the sun likewise was darkened in the sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased , but tokens of God's heavy wrath did show , That he was angry at this war , He sent a fearful blazing star , whereby the Kings might their misfortunes know . Bloody was the slaughter , Or rather wilful murder , where sixscore thousand fighting men were slave ; Three K [ i ] ngs within this battle dy'd , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , the like will never more be fought again . With woeful arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding this bloody sacrifice of souls that day ; He sighing said , 'I woeful wight , 'Against my conscience here do fight , 'and brought my followers all unto decay . Being thus molested , And with grief oppressed , those brave Italians that did fell their lands , With Stukely for to travel forth , And venture life for little worth , upon him all did lay their murdering hands . Unto death thus wounded , His heart with sorrow swooned , and to them thus he made his heavy moan : 'Thus have I left my country dear , 'To be so vilely murthe [ r ] ed hear , 'e'en in this place when [ r ] eas I am not known . 'My wife I have much wronged 'Of what to her belonged , 'I vainly spent in idle course of life ; 'What I have had is passed I see , 'And brings nought but grief to me , 'therefore grant me pardon gen [ tl ] e wife . 'Life I see consumeth , 'And death I see presumeth 'to change this life of mine into a new : 'Yet this my greatest comfort brings , 'I liv'd and dy'd in love of Kings ; 'and so brave Stukely bids the world adieu . Stukely's life thus ended , Was after death befriended , and like a soldier buried gallantly ; When [ r ] e now there stands upon the grave , A stately temple built brave , with golden turrets piercing to the sky . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . The Life and Death of the Famous THOMAS STUKELY : And English Gallant in time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended his Life in a Battle of three Kings of Barbary . Tune is , King Henry's going to Bulloign , etc IN the West of England , Born there was I understand , a famous Gallant was he in his days , By birth , a wealthy Clothier's son , Deeds of wonders he hath done , to purchase him a long and lasting praise . If I should tell his story , Pride was all his glory , and Lusty Stukely , he was call'd in Court ; He serv'd a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the best , maintaining of himself in gallant sort . Being thus esteemed , And everywhere well deemed , he gain'd the favour of a London Dame , Daughter to and Alderman , Curtis she was called then , to whom a suitor gallantly he came . When she his person spied , He could not be denied , so brave a Gentleman he was to see ; She was quickly made his wife , In weal or woe to led her life , her Father willing , thereto did agree . Thus in state and pleasure , Full many days they measure , till cruel Death with his regardless spite , Boar old Curtis to the grave , A thing that Stukely wished to have , that he might revel all in gold so bright . He was no sooner tombed , But Stukely he presumed to spend a hundred pound a day in waste ; The greatest Gallants in the land , Had Stukely's purse at their command , thus merrily the time away he passed . Taverns and ordinaries , Were his chiefest braveries , golden angels there flew up and down ; Riots were his best delight , With stately feasting day and nigh , in Court and City thus he wone renown . Thus wasting lands and living , By this lawless giving , at length he sold the pavements of the yard , Which cover'd were with blocks of tin , Old Curtis left the same to him , which he consumed lately as you've herd . Whereat his wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved , 'Make much of me dear Husband , she did say . 'I'll make much more of thee ( said he ) 'Than any one shall verily , 'I'll fell thy clothes and so I'll go my way . Cruelly thus hard hearted , Away from her he parted , and travell'd into Italy with speed ; There he flourished many a day In his silks and rich array , and did the pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the Lady's pleasure , To give him goods and treasure , for to maintain him in great pomp and fame ; At last came news assuredly , Of a fought battle in Barbary , and he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble Gallant , Sold both land and talon to follow Stukely in his famous fight ; Whereas three Kings in person would Adventurously with courage bold , within this battle show themselves in fight . Stukely , and his followers all Of the King of Portugal , had entertainment like to Gentlemen ; The King affected Stukely so , That he his secrets all did know , and boar his royal standard now and then . Upon this day of honour Each man did show his banner , Morocco and the King of Barbary ; Portugal and all his train , Bravely glittering on the plain , and gave the onset there most valiantly . The cannons they rebounded , Thundering guns resounded , Kill kill then was all the soldiers cry ; Mangled men lay on the ground , And with blood the earth was drown'd , the sun likewise was darkened in the sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased , but tokens of God's heavy wrath did show , That he was angry at this war , He sent a fearful blazing star , whereby the Kings might their misfortunes know . Bloody was the slaughter , Or rather wilful murder , where sixscore thousand fighting men were slave ; Three K [ i ] ngs within this battle dy'd , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , the like will never more be fought again . With woeful arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding this bloody sacrifice of souls that day ; He sighing said , 'I woeful wight , 'Against my conscience here do fight , 'and brought my followers all unto decay . Being thus molested , And with grief oppressed , those brave Italians that did fell their lands , With Stukely for to travel forth , And venture life for little worth , upon him all did lay their murdering hands . Unto death thus wounded , His heart with sorrow swooned , and to them thus he made his heavy moan : 'Thus have I left my country dear , 'To be so vilely murthe [ r ] ed hear , 'e'en in this place when [ r ] eas I am not known . 'My wife I have much wronged 'Of what to her belonged , 'I vainly spent in idle course of life ; 'What I have had is passed I see , 'And brings nought but grief to me , 'therefore grant me pardon gen [ tl ] e wife . 'Life I see consumeth , 'And death I see presumeth 'to change this life of mine into a new : 'Yet this my greatest comfort brings , 'I liv'd and dy'd in love of Kings ; 'and so brave Stukely bids the world adieu . Stukely's life thus ended , Was after death befriended , and like a soldier buried gallantly ; When [ r ] e now there stands upon the grave , A stately temple built brave , with golden turrets piercing to the sky . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 