r The Two-Penny Whore ; In a Dialogue betwixt a Spendthrift and a Whore . Or , a Relation of a Two penny Bargain . Of a Spendthrift proffering two pence to a Whore , Having spent all but that on her before . The Tune is , He that has the most Money is the best Man. A Lusty young Shaver , a vapouring Gallant , That vainly had spent and consum'd his estate , In Taverns and Alehouses wasting his talon , Resolving Repentance , did then come too late : Examining then of his Pocket , he found it Was very much empty , and he was grown poor : Quoth he , now my Moneys gone all to one twopence I'le make a clear end , & spend that on a Whore . And as along in the Streets he was walking , [ He ] chanced with one of his Mobs for to meet , [ All in ] her Silks and bravery adorned : [ With a Counterfeit ] mplement he there his Mopsie did greet . Sweet heart if you will go with me to and Alehouse [ , ] And grant me thy pleasure now I am grown poor [ , ] I have but twopence left , on thee i'le spend i Quoth she , then go look out your twopenny who [ re . ] My dearest , thou kneweth my former conditio [ n , ] And how I have spent my Estate upon thee : And now for to slight me it breeds my contritio [ n , ] And makes me with sorrow tormented to be . For I have but twopence left , & I will spend [ it ] On thee , I protest my Love I have no more : Quoth she , you may serve for a Pimp to anothe [ r , ] For I will be none of your twopenny Who [ re . ] WHen formerly I in my silks was adorned , And about my neck wore a fine flanders lac'd band , Upon my head was no less than a Beaver : What was there then I had not at command ? Remember , that we two at that time together , Took sweet Recreation before I was poor : Quoth she , Sir at that time I was your companion , And what must I now be your twopenny whore ? My former acquaintance with nearest Relations' Because I before their advice would not take , Do very much slight me : Men of Reputation My company shuns , and do me quite forsake : And bids me go seek for my baudy Companions , Where I have consum'd my estate all before : Quod she , I'de have all your friends for to know it , That I will be none of your twopenny Whore . Thou knew'st that in company we two together Have caused five Pounds to be spent at a Clap All out of my Pocke O how canst thou slight me , And then could so closely hug me in thy Lap. It was for my Money , and not for my Person , That you did my company so much adore : However , I pray thee bestow this Twopence : Quoth she , I will be none of your twopenny whore . How often with oaths , & with great protestation , Engaged you have to be faithful to me : In weal or in woe I should never be forsaken And now all my Coyn's gone , I slighted must be : But yet here's twopence left , prithee now take it , And let us do once as we have done before : Quoth she , I never did for twopence , & therefore Be packing , & hunt out your twopenny whore . Well then my dear Love , if you'l not be persuaded To take this my money because it is small , Let us doe a little , a very very little For former acquaintance , and that shall be all : Quoth she , I do scorn for to break my old custom , Another man I have to wait on : therefore I must bid a farewell both to you & your twopence , For I scorn to be counted a Two-penny-whore . Quoth she , Sir before we depart I will tell you , I dare undertake to proscribe you a way How you may be doing : then let's to and Alehouse , But take notice before , Half a Crown is my pay : Then give me your twopence in earnest at present You shall have your request sir , although you be poor : But this I must tell you before you begin it , I'le set seven Groats Sir upon your old score . And thus you may see the condition of wantons , And in what a wanton condition they are , Before they will leave off their lustful occasions , If they cannot get money , they trust their ware . They'l keep a man company while his Coin last-eth And never forsake him until he be poor : And then much ado he shall have with his wanton , For one single Job to set on the Score . You Gallants and others , I wish you be careful , That have and Estate , lest you vainly it was And fly evil Company of them be fearful , Lest into Poverty you should be cast And afterwards you be forc't with submission To creep unto those , where you spent all your store The best way I know of for you to prevent it Is to keep your goods out of the hands of a Whore London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . r The Two-Penny Whore ; In a Dialogue betwixt a Spendthrift and a Whore . Or , a Relation of a Two penny Bargain . Of a Spendthrift proffering two pence to a Whore , Having spent all but that on her before . The Tune is , He that has the most Money is the best Man. A Lusty young Shaver , a vapouring Gallant , That vainly had spent and consum'd his estate , In Taverns and Alehouses wasting his talon , Resolving Repentance , did then come too late : Examining then of his Pocket , he found it Was very much empty , and he was grown poor : Quoth he , now my Moneys gone all to one twopence I'le make a clear end , & spend that on a Whore . And as along in the Streets he was walking , [ He ] chanced with one of his Mobs for to meet , [ All in ] her Silks and bravery adorned : [ With a Counterfeit ] mplement he there his Mopsie did greet . Sweet heart if you will go with me to and Alehouse [ , ] And grant me thy pleasure now I am grown poor [ , ] I have but twopence left , on thee i'le spend i Quoth she , then go look out your twopenny who [ re . ] My dearest , thou kneweth my former conditio [ n , ] And how I have spent my Estate upon thee : And now for to slight me it breeds my contritio [ n , ] And makes me with sorrow tormented to be . For I have but twopence left , & I will spend [ it ] On thee , I protest my Love I have no more : Quoth she , you may serve for a Pimp to anothe [ r , ] For I will be none of your twopenny Who [ re . ] WHen formerly I in my silks was adorned , And about my neck wore a fine flanders lac'd band , Upon my head was no less than a Beaver : What was there then I had not at command ? Remember , that we two at that time together , Took sweet Recreation before I was poor : Quoth she , Sir at that time I was your companion , And what must I now be your twopenny whore ? My former acquaintance with nearest Relations' Because I before their advice would not take , Do very much slight me : Men of Reputation My company shuns , and do me quite forsake : And bids me go seek for my baudy Companions , Where I have consum'd my estate all before : Quod she , I'de have all your friends for to know it , That I will be none of your twopenny Whore . Thou knew'st that in company we two together Have caused five Pounds to be spent at a Clap All out of my Pocke O how canst thou slight me , And then could so closely hug me in thy Lap. It was for my Money , and not for my Person , That you did my company so much adore : However , I pray thee bestow this Twopence : Quoth she , I will be none of your twopenny whore . How often with oaths , & with great protestation , Engaged you have to be faithful to me : In weal or in woe I should never be forsaken And now all my Coyn's gone , I slighted must be : But yet here's twopence left , prithee now take it , And let us do once as we have done before : Quoth she , I never did for twopence , & therefore Be packing , & hunt out your twopenny whore . Well then my dear Love , if you'l not be persuaded To take this my money because it is small , Let us doe a little , a very very little For former acquaintance , and that shall be all : Quoth she , I do scorn for to break my old custom , Another man I have to wait on : therefore I must bid a farewell both to you & your twopence , For I scorn to be counted a Two-penny-whore . Quoth she , Sir before we depart I will tell you , I dare undertake to proscribe you a way How you may be doing : then let's to and Alehouse , But take notice before , Half a Crown is my pay : Then give me your twopence in earnest at present You shall have your request sir , although you be poor : But this I must tell you before you begin it , I'le set seven Groats Sir upon your old score . And thus you may see the condition of wantons , And in what a wanton condition they are , Before they will leave off their lustful occasions , If they cannot get money , they trust their ware . They'l keep a man company while his Coin last-eth And never forsake him until he be poor : And then much ado he shall have with his wanton , For one single Job to set on the Score . You Gallants and others , I wish you be careful , That have and Estate , lest you vainly it was And fly evil Company of them be fearful , Lest into Poverty you should be cast And afterwards you be forc't with submission To creep unto those , where you spent all your store The best way I know of for you to prevent it Is to keep your goods out of the hands of a Whore London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . r The true Lovers Happiness Or , Nothing venture , Nothing have . Showing how and Apprentice made bold to court his Master's Daughter , god her good will , and married her unknown to her Parents yet afterwards her father seeing they loved each other so entirely , he gave them a con - siderable portion of money to set up with , and now they live in a happy condition ; this may serve for a pattern for others . Their compliments to you I will rehearse According as they are printed down in verse . Tune of , Amintas on the new-made Hay , or Loyal Lovers . Man. O my Dearest come away , and harken what thy love does say As I am here I vow and swear I kindly will embrace thee ; Thou need not fear my only dear that I shall e'er disgrace thee . I'le be as honest as the day , thy virtues I will not bewray , No face alive shall e're deprive me of my dearest jewel . If thou deny I sure shall die , then be not thou so cruel . many years I loved thee , therefore dearest pity me , Thy very frown does cast me down , thy smiles again revive me : Thou hast my heart where'r thou art then don't of love deprive me . Maid . O fie thou simple Prentice boy , how durst thou with me tick & toy ! Or be so bold this to unfold unto thy masts Daughter ? If he should know , 'twould breed that [ y ] woe , then what will follow after . I am my Father's own delight This you may understand aright , No Daughter he hath else but me , which makes him highly prize me ; Therefore be mute , leave off thy suit I friendly do advice thee . My Father's anger pray you shun , lest you are utterly undone , The prison-grate will be your fate , if you run such adventures , Beside all this , if maids you kiss you forfeit your indentures . Man. Prithee dearest do not flout , At Easter next my time is out , And then I swear I will not care for master nor such Histories : But a wife i'le have my life to save , and you'r my only mistress . Blame me not for saying so , For love will creep where it cannot go Had I not spoke , my heart had broke I could endure no longer : Though I did fight both day & night yet Cupid grew the stronger . Methinks I see thy lovely face As I do walk in any place , Thy crystal eyes where Cupid lies , thy cheeks are like to Roses : Thy lips are sweet , when as we meet all virtue there incloses . Though I am poor and thou art rich Slight me not I thee beseech , You know my trade will keep a maid as well as yeoman Jarvis , If I get Pearl my dearest Girl , it shall be at thy service . Maid . Thy speeches I do much commend , Yet dare I not to condescend For fear I loose as I suppose , my father's dear affection . Or else i'd yield to you the field , if I might have my election . Man. Never stand to compliment , This does give me no content , Tho' father frown & mother frown , yet none of them shall rout me , I am not in jest I do protest I cannot live without thee . Thus he gain'd the Damsels love , And honest to her he did prove , He wedded her and bedded her although his Master's Daughter ; He pleas'd her well the truth to tell , and parents love came after . For they gave them eightscore pound whereby this couples joys were crowned Thus may you see in each degree this youth was well befriended , They live in peace , their goods increase and thus my Song is ended . Printed for W Thackeray , E. M. and A. M . r The true Lovers Happiness Or , Nothing venture , Nothing have . Showing how and Apprentice made bold to court his Master's Daughter , god her good will , and married her unknown to her Parents yet afterwards her father seeing they loved each other so entirely , he gave them a con - siderable portion of money to set up with , and now they live in a happy condition ; this may serve for a pattern for others . Their compliments to you I will rehearse According as they are printed down in verse . Tune of , Amintas on the new-made Hay , or Loyal Lovers . Man. O my Dearest come away , and harken what thy love does say As I am here I vow and swear I kindly will embrace thee ; Thou need not fear my only dear that I shall e'er disgrace thee . I'le be as honest as the day , thy virtues I will not bewray , No face alive shall e're deprive me of my dearest jewel . If thou deny I sure shall die , then be not thou so cruel . many years I loved thee , therefore dearest pity me , Thy very frown does cast me down , thy smiles again revive me : Thou hast my heart where'r thou art then don't of love deprive me . Maid . O fie thou simple Prentice boy , how durst thou with me tick & toy ! Or be so bold this to unfold unto thy masts Daughter ? If he should know , 'twould breed that [ y ] woe , then what will follow after . I am my Father's own delight This you may understand aright , No Daughter he hath else but me , which makes him highly prize me ; Therefore be mute , leave off thy suit I friendly do advice thee . My Father's anger pray you shun , lest you are utterly undone , The prison-grate will be your fate , if you run such adventures , Beside all this , if maids you kiss you forfeit your indentures . Man. Prithee dearest do not flout , At Easter next my time is out , And then I swear I will not care for master nor such Histories : But a wife i'le have my life to save , and you'r my only mistress . Blame me not for saying so , For love will creep where it cannot go Had I not spoke , my heart had broke I could endure no longer : Though I did fight both day & night yet Cupid grew the stronger . Methinks I see thy lovely face As I do walk in any place , Thy crystal eyes where Cupid lies , thy cheeks are like to Roses : Thy lips are sweet , when as we meet all virtue there incloses . Though I am poor and thou art rich Slight me not I thee beseech , You know my trade will keep a maid as well as yeoman Jarvis , If I get Pearl my dearest Girl , it shall be at thy service . Maid . Thy speeches I do much commend , Yet dare I not to condescend For fear I loose as I suppose , my father's dear affection . Or else i'd yield to you the field , if I might have my election . Man. Never stand to compliment , This does give me no content , Tho' father frown & mother frown , yet none of them shall rout me , I am not in jest I do protest I cannot live without thee . Thus he gain'd the Damsels love , And honest to her he did prove , He wedded her and bedded her although his Master's Daughter ; He pleas'd her well the truth to tell , and parents love came after . For they gave them eightscore pound whereby this couples joys were crowned Thus may you see in each degree this youth was well befriended , They live in peace , their goods increase and thus my Song is ended . Printed for W Thackeray , E. M. and A. M. 