THE Ship Carpenter's Love TO THE Merchant's Daughter : To the Tune of , Fare well my Love . YOU loyal Lovers far and near , A true Relation you shall hear , Of a young Couple , who prov'd to be A Pattern of true Loyalty . A Merchant do's in Bristol dwell , As many People know full well ; He has a Daughter , a Beauty bright , In whom he plac'd his Heart's delight . He had on child , but only she ; Her Father lov'd her tenderly . Many to court her thith [ e ] r came Gallonts of worthy birth and fame , Yet notwithstanding all their Love ; A young Ship-Carpenter did prove To be the Master of her Hear She often said' We'll never part As long as Life and Breath remain , Thy Company I'll not refrain ; No cursed Gold and Silver bright Shall make me wrong my Heart's delight . Now when her Father came to know His Daughter lov'd this young Man so , He caus'd him to be pressed to Sea , To keep her from his Company . Which when this Damsel came to hear , Without the thoughts of dread or fear , She dressed her self in Seaman's hue , And after him she did pursue . Unto the Captain she did go , And said , Right Worthy Sir , 'tis so , You do want Men , I understand , I'm free to fight with Heart and Hand , The Captain straightway did reply , Young Man , you're welcome heartily : A Guinea in her Hand he gave ; She passed for a Seaman brave . Soon after this , the Ship set sail , And with a fair and pleasant gale ; But this Ship-Carpenter , ( her dear ) Did little think his Love so near . She then appeared for to be A Person of no mean [ worser ] egree ; With pretty Fingers long and strai She soon became the Surgeon's Mate . It happen'd so , that this same Ship. At stroming of the Town of Diepe , She lay at Anchor something nigh , Where Cannon-Bullets they did fly . Then the first Man that wounded were , Was this young bold Ship-Carpenter ; When Drums did beatrice , and Trumpets found He in his Breast receive'd a Wound . Then to the Surgeon's care was he Brought down with speed immediately ; Whereas the pretty Surgeon's Mate , Did courteously upon him wait . She dressed the woeful wounded Part ; Although , the sighed did pierce her Haert ; She then did use her utmost skill , To cure him with a right good Will : She cur'd him in a little space , He often gaz'd upon her Face . Surgeon , said he , such Eyes as thine Did formerly my Heart confine . If e're I live to go on Shore , And she be dead whom I adore , I will your true Company be , And ne'er forsake thy Company . If she be dead , thus will I do , All Female Sex I'll bid adieu : And ne're will marry for her sake , But to the Seas my [ se ] lf betake . THE Ship Carpenter's Love TO THE Merchant's Daughter : To the Tune of , Fare well my Love . YOU loyal Lovers far and near , A true Relation you shall hear , Of a young Couple , who prov'd to be A Pattern of true Loyalty . A Merchant do's in Bristol dwell , As many People know full well ; He has a Daughter , a Beauty bright , In whom he plac'd his Heart's delight . He had on child , but only she ; Her Father lov'd her tenderly . Many to court her thith [ e ] r came Gallonts of worthy birth and fame , Yet notwithstanding all their Love ; A young Ship-Carpenter did prove To be the Master of her Hear She often said' We'll never part As long as Life and Breath remain , Thy Company I'll not refrain ; No cursed Gold and Silver bright Shall make me wrong my Heart's delight . Now when her Father came to know His Daughter lov'd this young Man so , He caus'd him to be pressed to Sea , To keep her from his Company . Which when this Damsel came to hear , Without the thoughts of dread or fear , She dressed her self in Seaman's hue , And after him she did pursue . Unto the Captain she did go , And said , Right Worthy Sir , 'tis so , You do want Men , I understand , I'm free to fight with Heart and Hand , The Captain straightway did reply , Young Man , you're welcome heartily : A Guinea in her Hand he gave ; She passed for a Seaman brave . Soon after this , the Ship set sail , And with a fair and pleasant gale ; But this Ship-Carpenter , ( her dear ) Did little think his Love so near . She then appeared for to be A Person of no mean [ worser ] egree ; With pretty Fingers long and strai She soon became the Surgeon's Mate . It happen'd so , that this same Ship. At stroming of the Town of Diepe , She lay at Anchor something nigh , Where Cannon-Bullets they did fly . Then the first Man that wounded were , Was this young bold Ship-Carpenter ; When Drums did beatrice , and Trumpets found He in his Breast receive'd a Wound . Then to the Surgeon's care was he Brought down with speed immediately ; Whereas the pretty Surgeon's Mate , Did courteously upon him wait . She dressed the woeful wounded Part ; Although , the sighed did pierce her Haert ; She then did use her utmost skill , To cure him with a right good Will : She cur'd him in a little space , He often gaz'd upon her Face . Surgeon , said he , such Eyes as thine Did formerly my Heart confine . If e're I live to go on Shore , And she be dead whom I adore , I will your true Company be , And ne'er forsake thy Company . If she be dead , thus will I do , All Female Sex I'll bid adieu : And ne're will marry for her sake , But to the Seas my [ se ] lf betake . 