A Freemans Song BY the merry Lands date ah , There dwelled a jolly Miller , And a good old man was he , Was he , was he hay hoe . He had , he had and a son ah , Men cal'd him jolly Raynold , A might man of might Was he , was he hay hoe . And from his father he would ah , His fortune for to seek , From merry Lands date Would he , would he hay hoe . His father he would him seek ah , And found him fast asleep , Undneath the hathorne tree Was he , was he hay hoe . He took , he took him up ah , All by the lily white , And set him on his feet , And by him stand hay hoe . He gave to him & a bent bow , Made of a trustee tree , And arrows in his hand , And bid him let them flee . And shoot with that he did ah , Some say he shot a mile , But half a mile nay more Was that he shot hay ho . And at the half miles end ah , There stood and armed man , This child he shot him through , And through , & through hay ho . His beard was all on a white ah , As white as driven snow , His teeth they were as clear As chistall snow hay ho . And there of him they made ah , Good yeoman Robin Hood , Scarlet and Little John , And Little John hay ho . To be Sung Thrice . A Freemans Song BY the merry Lands date ah , There dwelled a jolly Miller , And a good old man was he , Was he , was he hay hoe . He had , he had and a son ah , Men cal'd him jolly Raynold , A might man of might Was he , was he hay hoe . And from his father he would ah , His fortune for to seek , From merry Lands date Would he , would he hay hoe . His father he would him seek ah , And found him fast asleep , Undneath the hathorne tree Was he , was he hay hoe . He took , he took him up ah , All by the lily white , And set him on his feet , And by him stand hay hoe . He gave to him & a bent bow , Made of a trustee tree , And arrows in his hand , And bid him let them flee . And shoot with that he did ah , Some say he shot a mile , But half a mile nay more Was that he shot hay ho . And at the half miles end ah , There stood and armed man , This child he shot him through , And through , & through hay ho . His beard was all on a white ah , As white as driven snow , His teeth they were as clear As chistall snow hay ho . And there of him they made ah , Good yeoman Robin Hood , Scarlet and Little John , And Little John hay ho . To be Sung Thrice . 