THE Just Judgement of GOD shew'd upon Dr. John Faustus . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe , etc ALL Christian Men give Ear a while to me , How I am plung'd in Pain , but cannot see : I liv'd a Life , the like did none before , Forsaking Christ , and I am damn'd therefore . At Wertemburgh , a Town in Germany , There was I born and bred of good Degree , Of honest Stock , which afterwards I sham'd , Accursed therefore , for Faustus was I nam'd . In learning high my Uncle brought up me , And made me Doctor of Divinity : And when he dy'd he left me all his Wealth , Which cursed Gold did hinder my Soul's Health . Then did I shun the Holy Bible Book , Nor on God's Word would never after look ; But studied the accursed Conjuration , Which was the Cause of my utter Damnation . The Devil in Friars Weeds appeared to me , And straight to my Request he did agree , That I might have all Things at my Desire , I gave him Soul and Body for his Hire . Twice did I make my tender Flesh to bleed , Twice with my Blood I wrote the Devil's Deed , Twice wretchedly I Soul and Body sold , To live in Pleasure , and do what Things I would . For four and twenty Years this Bound was made , And then at length my Soul for it was paid ; Time ran away , and yet I never thought , How dear my Soul our Saviour Christ had bought . Would I at first been made a Beast by Kind , Then had not I so vainly set my Mind ; Or would not when Reason began to bloom , Some darksome Den had been my deadly Tomb. Woe to the Day of my Nativity ! Woe to the Time that once did foster me ! And woe unto the Hand that sealed the Bill ! Woe to myself the Cause of all my Ill ! The Time I pass'd away with much Delight , 'Mongst Princes , Peers , and many a worthy Knight , I wrought such Wonders by my Magic Skill , That all the World may talk of Faustus still . The Devil carried me up in the Sky , Where I did see how all the World did lie : I went about the World in eight Days Space , And then return'd into my native Place . What Pleasure I did wish to please my Mind , He did perform , as Bound and Seal did bind : The Secrets of the Stars and Planets told , Of Earth and Sea , with Wonders manifold . When four and twenty Years was almost run , I thought on Things that then was past and done ; How that the Devil will soon claim his Right , And carry me to everlasting Night . Then all too late I cursed my wicked Deed , The Dread thereof does make my Heart to bleed : All Days and Hours I mourned wond'rous soar , Repenting then of all Things done before . I then did wish both Sun and Moon to stay , All Times and Seasons never to decay : Then had my Time ne'er come to dated End , Nor Soul and Body down to Hell descend . At last when I had but one Hour to come , I turn'd the Glass for my last Hour to run : And call'd in learned Men to comfort me , But Faith was gone , and none could succour me . By Twelve o'Clock my Glass was almost out , My grieved Conscience then began to doub I pray'd the Studious to stay in Chamber by , But as they stayed they herd a doleful cry . Then presently they came into the Hall , Whereas my Brains were cast against the Wall ; Both Arms and Legs in Pieces they did see , My Bowels gone , there was and End of me . You Conjurors and damned Witches all , Example take by my unhappy Fallen : Give not your Souls and Bodies unto Hell , See that the smallest Hair you do not fell . But hope in Christ his Kingdom you may gain , Where you shall never fear such mortal Pain ; Forsake the Devil and all his crafty Ways , Embrace true Faith that never more decays . FINIS . THE Just Judgement of GOD shew'd upon Dr. John Faustus . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe , etc ALL Christian Men give Ear a while to me , How I am plung'd in Pain , but cannot see : I liv'd a Life , the like did none before , Forsaking Christ , and I am damn'd therefore . At Wertemburgh , a Town in Germany , There was I born and bred of good Degree , Of honest Stock , which afterwards I sham'd , Accursed therefore , for Faustus was I nam'd . In learning high my Uncle brought up me , And made me Doctor of Divinity : And when he dy'd he left me all his Wealth , Which cursed Gold did hinder my Soul's Health . Then did I shun the Holy Bible Book , Nor on God's Word would never after look ; But studied the accursed Conjuration , Which was the Cause of my utter Damnation . The Devil in Friars Weeds appeared to me , And straight to my Request he did agree , That I might have all Things at my Desire , I gave him Soul and Body for his Hire . Twice did I make my tender Flesh to bleed , Twice with my Blood I wrote the Devil's Deed , Twice wretchedly I Soul and Body sold , To live in Pleasure , and do what Things I would . For four and twenty Years this Bound was made , And then at length my Soul for it was paid ; Time ran away , and yet I never thought , How dear my Soul our Saviour Christ had bought . Would I at first been made a Beast by Kind , Then had not I so vainly set my Mind ; Or would not when Reason began to bloom , Some darksome Den had been my deadly Tomb. Woe to the Day of my Nativity ! Woe to the Time that once did foster me ! And woe unto the Hand that sealed the Bill ! Woe to myself the Cause of all my Ill ! The Time I pass'd away with much Delight , 'Mongst Princes , Peers , and many a worthy Knight , I wrought such Wonders by my Magic Skill , That all the World may talk of Faustus still . The Devil carried me up in the Sky , Where I did see how all the World did lie : I went about the World in eight Days Space , And then return'd into my native Place . What Pleasure I did wish to please my Mind , He did perform , as Bound and Seal did bind : The Secrets of the Stars and Planets told , Of Earth and Sea , with Wonders manifold . When four and twenty Years was almost run , I thought on Things that then was past and done ; How that the Devil will soon claim his Right , And carry me to everlasting Night . Then all too late I cursed my wicked Deed , The Dread thereof does make my Heart to bleed : All Days and Hours I mourned wond'rous soar , Repenting then of all Things done before . I then did wish both Sun and Moon to stay , All Times and Seasons never to decay : Then had my Time ne'er come to dated End , Nor Soul and Body down to Hell descend . At last when I had but one Hour to come , I turn'd the Glass for my last Hour to run : And call'd in learned Men to comfort me , But Faith was gone , and none could succour me . By Twelve o'Clock my Glass was almost out , My grieved Conscience then began to doub I pray'd the Studious to stay in Chamber by , But as they stayed they herd a doleful cry . Then presently they came into the Hall , Whereas my Brains were cast against the Wall ; Both Arms and Legs in Pieces they did see , My Bowels gone , there was and End of me . You Conjurors and damned Witches all , Example take by my unhappy Fallen : Give not your Souls and Bodies unto Hell , See that the smallest Hair you do not fell . But hope in Christ his Kingdom you may gain , Where you shall never fear such mortal Pain ; Forsake the Devil and all his crafty Ways , Embrace true Faith that never more decays . FINIS . 