Arthur o'Bradley . ALL in the merry month of may , The maids a maypole they will have , Your helping hand I do crave ; For there's never a Man shall sup , Till I have drank my cup , For I am belov'd by all , The great and the small . For my name it is Arthur o'Bradley O. O rare Arthur o'B [ r ] adly , Oh fine Arthur o'Bradley , O. And as I went forth one day , I met a maid by the way ; I took her by the hand , Desiring her to stand ; For 'tis love conquers kings , And a sorrowful heart brings , For if you lov [ ' ] worser your mother , Love me and no other . For my name , etc Then Arthur a wooing went . To gain her friends consent , And beauty he must have , Because he is rich and brave , His sweetheart had but one eye , Her nose stood all awry , Her mouth from ear to ear . Her teeth as rotten as a pear , With a hump upon her back , For a crump she did not lack , With bandy legs also , A wheelbarrow may go through . And her name it was Draggletail Dorothy . I'll ask my mother's leave , So then they went with speed . Good-morrow , mother said he , You're welcome son , said she , One question of you I do crave . Your Daughter for to have , For I love her as my life , And will make her my wife . For my name , etc The old woman cry'd , And call'd her daughter aside , Oh daughter sweet cries she , What makes you so eager be ? To be a bumkin's bride , When better will lie by your side , You lie , you old whore , cries he , I can have as good as she . For my name , etc When death my father calls , He vows to leave me all . A wooden wedge and maul , And a jolly clout withal ; With barrels , bukets , looms , And a dozen of wooden spoons , A cheesefat and ladder , With two chums laid together . A basket and a wimble , A pack-needle and thimble . Nine barn rakes and a frail , Beside and old cart-nail ; And at last falls to my lot , A sweet old mustard-pot , For my name , etc And a wedding we will have , So jolly , fine and brave , I'll bid my neighbours round , One out of every town , Old mother Hobbs of Spalding , Moll Becks of Walding , John Sly of Eversham , Old Grace of Evengham ; Barbling Grey of Sutton , Ralph Swill of Dutton . For my name , etc Then Arthur about her did walk To interrupt her talk , Adzooks mother , said he , I can have as good as she . My father in his will left me all , When Death does him call , Some good old looms , With a dozen of wooden spoons . And a dozen of buttons hanging upon a string , One lefthand mitten , and and old cur - tain ring ; Spigots and fausits five , Beside and old be hive , With a chamber pot as good , As ever was made of wood . For my name , etc Arthur o'Bradley . ALL in the merry month of may , The maids a maypole they will have , Your helping hand I do crave ; For there's never a Man shall sup , Till I have drank my cup , For I am belov'd by all , The great and the small . For my name it is Arthur o'Bradley O. O rare Arthur o'B [ r ] adly , Oh fine Arthur o'Bradley , O. And as I went forth one day , I met a maid by the way ; I took her by the hand , Desiring her to stand ; For 'tis love conquers kings , And a sorrowful heart brings , For if you lov [ ' ] worser your mother , Love me and no other . For my name , etc Then Arthur a wooing went . To gain her friends consent , And beauty he must have , Because he is rich and brave , His sweetheart had but one eye , Her nose stood all awry , Her mouth from ear to ear . Her teeth as rotten as a pear , With a hump upon her back , For a crump she did not lack , With bandy legs also , A wheelbarrow may go through . And her name it was Draggletail Dorothy . I'll ask my mother's leave , So then they went with speed . Good-morrow , mother said he , You're welcome son , said she , One question of you I do crave . Your Daughter for to have , For I love her as my life , And will make her my wife . For my name , etc The old woman cry'd , And call'd her daughter aside , Oh daughter sweet cries she , What makes you so eager be ? To be a bumkin's bride , When better will lie by your side , You lie , you old whore , cries he , I can have as good as she . For my name , etc When death my father calls , He vows to leave me all . A wooden wedge and maul , And a jolly clout withal ; With barrels , bukets , looms , And a dozen of wooden spoons , A cheesefat and ladder , With two chums laid together . A basket and a wimble , A pack-needle and thimble . Nine barn rakes and a frail , Beside and old cart-nail ; And at last falls to my lot , A sweet old mustard-pot , For my name , etc And a wedding we will have , So jolly , fine and brave , I'll bid my neighbours round , One out of every town , Old mother Hobbs of Spalding , Moll Becks of Walding , John Sly of Eversham , Old Grace of Evengham ; Barbling Grey of Sutton , Ralph Swill of Dutton . For my name , etc Then Arthur about her did walk To interrupt her talk , Adzooks mother , said he , I can have as good as she . My father in his will left me all , When Death does him call , Some good old looms , With a dozen of wooden spoons . And a dozen of buttons hanging upon a string , One lefthand mitten , and and old cur - tain ring ; Spigots and fausits five , Beside and old be hive , With a chamber pot as good , As ever was made of wood . For my name , etc 