A Warning-piece for all Wicked Livers : OR , A Cavat for all People to remember their Latter End. Being very good Instructions for Old and Young , rich and poor , to amend their lives , and repent before it be too late . To the Tune of , The rich Merchant Man. TO you both Old and Young , these Lines I do indite , Desiring you them to observe , and not good Counsel sligh Take notice well I pray , what's here pen'd in this Song , Unto the General Judgement-Day , I think the time's not long : Then fear God and Repent , spend not your time in waste , For old and young , both rich and poor , must yield to Death at last . HOw many wicked Sins , are Reigning in our Land ? Which are by men & women us'd against the Lords command : Hateful Pride is in use , and also Blasphemy , Many run on in wickedness , and think they ne'r shall die : Then fear , etc O Would men did but think upon their latter end , Then they would fly all vanity , and strive their lives to mend : Oh Wretched Mortal Man , keep still , and bear in mind , Though thou tak'st pleasure in this Life , yet thou'lt leave them behind : Then fear , etc MInd not this Worldly Wealth , on it set not thy heart , For when that death does stop thy breath , thy Gold and thee must part , men Life is like a Flower , that grows fresh and brave , We are here to day , to morrow we may be laid within our Grave : Then fear , etc ABhor and also shun , from Drunkenness always , 'Twill bring thy Soul & body both to ruin and decay : Abomination it is , before the sighed of God , Then use it not , lest that he scourge thee with his heavy Rod : Then fear , etc SWear thou not by the Lord , take not his name in Vain , In Moses Law it is forbid , as Scripture shows it plain : Some men now in these days , will upon their Sins boast , He is counted the bravest Blade that can curse and swear mos Then fear God and Repent , spend not your time in waste , For old and young , both rich and poor , must yield to Death at last . LEt not thy mind be bent , to do thy Neighbour wrong , But see thou give all men their due which does to them belong : Pray Love the Fatherless , to the Widow be a Friend , Relieve those that are in distress , then God will thee defend : Then fear God and Repent , spend not your time in waste , For old and young , both rich and poor , must yield to Death at last . A Covetous mind don't bear , if thou art blessed with store , But spare some part of what thou hast , for the help of the poor : Although that wealth thou hast , yet it is but lent to thee , Then comfort and give alms to those that are in misery . Then fear , etc NOw to Young people likewise , good counsel I will give , If thou'lt it take , 'twill do thee good , so long as thou dost live ? Neglect not Gods Holy Word , but keep his Laws truly , Mind not the pleasure of this world , for it is but Vanity . Then fear , etc FOrget not you this rule , bear it in mind always , Unto your Parents reverence give , and duly them obey : For those Children that do ; their Father and Mother scorn , The curse of God hangs on their head , better they'd ne'r been born : Then fear , etc IDleness and Sloth shun , labour as God allows ; Strive always for to get your bred by the sweat of your brows Endeavour and get in Youth , to keep you when you are old For if Poverty does come you'l find , that Charity will be cold , Then fear , etc REfuse no good counsel that's given unto thee ; But show respect unto all men , and not highminded be : Remember that thou keep , the Sabbath of the Lord , For that's a day ordain'd for us to meditate on his Word : Then fear , etc EVery one that does these Verses hear or see Example take , and learn by them , for to live righteously : Enter not into since , repent without delay ; For time and tide does slip along , it will for no man stay : Then fear God and repent , spend not your time in waste , For old and young , both rich and poor must yield to Death at last . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. TO [ hackeray ] and T. Passenger . A Warning-piece for all Wicked Livers : OR , A Cavat for all People to remember their Latter End. Being very good Instructions for Old and Young , rich and poor , to amend their lives , and repent before it be too late . To the Tune of , The rich Merchant Man. TO you both Old and Young , these Lines I do indite , Desiring you them to observe , and not good Counsel sligh Take notice well I pray , what's here pen'd in this Song , Unto the General Judgement-Day , I think the time's not long : Then fear God and Repent , spend not your time in waste , For old and young , both rich and poor , must yield to Death at last . HOw many wicked Sins , are Reigning in our Land ? Which are by men & women us'd against the Lords command : Hateful Pride is in use , and also Blasphemy , Many run on in wickedness , and think they ne'r shall die : Then fear , etc O Would men did but think upon their latter end , Then they would fly all vanity , and strive their lives to mend : Oh Wretched Mortal Man , keep still , and bear in mind , Though thou tak'st pleasure in this Life , yet thou'lt leave them behind : Then fear , etc MInd not this Worldly Wealth , on it set not thy heart , For when that death does stop thy breath , thy Gold and thee must part , men Life is like a Flower , that grows fresh and brave , We are here to day , to morrow we may be laid within our Grave : Then fear , etc ABhor and also shun , from Drunkenness always , 'Twill bring thy Soul & body both to ruin and decay : Abomination it is , before the sighed of God , Then use it not , lest that he scourge thee with his heavy Rod : Then fear , etc SWear thou not by the Lord , take not his name in Vain , In Moses Law it is forbid , as Scripture shows it plain : Some men now in these days , will upon their Sins boast , He is counted the bravest Blade that can curse and swear mos Then fear God and Repent , spend not your time in waste , For old and young , both rich and poor , must yield to Death at last . LEt not thy mind be bent , to do thy Neighbour wrong , But see thou give all men their due which does to them belong : Pray Love the Fatherless , to the Widow be a Friend , Relieve those that are in distress , then God will thee defend : Then fear God and Repent , spend not your time in waste , For old and young , both rich and poor , must yield to Death at last . A Covetous mind don't bear , if thou art blessed with store , But spare some part of what thou hast , for the help of the poor : Although that wealth thou hast , yet it is but lent to thee , Then comfort and give alms to those that are in misery . Then fear , etc NOw to Young people likewise , good counsel I will give , If thou'lt it take , 'twill do thee good , so long as thou dost live ? Neglect not Gods Holy Word , but keep his Laws truly , Mind not the pleasure of this world , for it is but Vanity . Then fear , etc FOrget not you this rule , bear it in mind always , Unto your Parents reverence give , and duly them obey : For those Children that do ; their Father and Mother scorn , The curse of God hangs on their head , better they'd ne'r been born : Then fear , etc IDleness and Sloth shun , labour as God allows ; Strive always for to get your bred by the sweat of your brows Endeavour and get in Youth , to keep you when you are old For if Poverty does come you'l find , that Charity will be cold , Then fear , etc REfuse no good counsel that's given unto thee ; But show respect unto all men , and not highminded be : Remember that thou keep , the Sabbath of the Lord , For that's a day ordain'd for us to meditate on his Word : Then fear , etc EVery one that does these Verses hear or see Example take , and learn by them , for to live righteously : Enter not into since , repent without delay ; For time and tide does slip along , it will for no man stay : Then fear God and repent , spend not your time in waste , For old and young , both rich and poor must yield to Death at last . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. TO [ hackeray ] and T. Passenger . 