And excellent new Song lately composed , entitled I'le o're Bogie we him . To its own proper New Tune , ALL Bachelors and Lasses I Pray you now draw near , And do you hold your Passion , A Story you shall hear , Of a young wanton Lassie , That would not Counciled be , But she would over Gady , Her Fortaine for to see . I'll o're Bogie we my Love , I'll o're Bogie we him , And all my Kine had Sworn and said I'll o're Bogie we him . My Love's a Valiant Highland Man and true to his King . A Pair of Pistols by his side , and a well hung Loom , He Courted me with Compliments that did entice me so , That I would leave my Parents , and over Gaudy go , I'll o're Bogie . etc He asked my Hair in Compliment for to make me a Wig , And long or e'rn we parted he bored my Whirle-gige , He Fufled all my Petticoat . and felled about my Spare , He ne're would be contented ; until that he felled more , I'll o're Bogie . etc He laid me down upon my back , and all my Buttocks bair , And he pull'd out and Instrument , that could me to a Hair , He took the Sheers into his Hand , he cowed my Head full bore , But immediately thereafter , he Swore that I had more , I'll o're Bogie , etc He might have been a Minister , he was a Lairds Son , For ne're a Hold that he could see but he would fain been in ; Pray take from me my Rock Mother but and my Spining While , I'll o're Bogie we my Love , though I should ne're do well , I'll o're Bogie , etc O my dearest Daughter , why will you say so , Will you leave Father and Mother . and over Gaudy go , Go home , go home old Mother , go home and Fell your Ale , I wish that all your Barrals break and you get little seal , I'll o're Bogie . etc Although the Night were ne're so dark blowing both Wind and Rain , I'll o're Gaudy we my Love , and will not it Refrain , And out then came her Father dear , and angry was he then , Says Daughter for my Bennision forsake that Highland Man , I'll o're Bogie , etc Go home , go home my Father dear go home and Sow your Corn , I wish that never more come up , but Thristle , Brier and Thorn , And now my dearest Lover , Come lets us mount and go , And we will ovet Gady , my dear it shall be so , I'll o're Bogie , etc - Soon on Monday Morning , by Dawning of the Day , While Phebus was adorning , They both have gone away , With hassing and with Kissing , she went into his Arms , With great Love to adore him , Yielding all Mortal Charms , I'll o're Bogie , etc And now this Pretty Damasel , that ne're would Counciled be , Shes over Gady with her Love , her Fortune for to see , But when some Weeks were gone & passed this Lass with Child did prove , Her sweet Heart's gone and left her and choist another Love , I'll o're Bogie , etc But now this Pretty Damasel , knows none that will provide , For her and her young Baby , for them for to get Bred , She's come home to her Father . and to her Mother now , And says her Disobedience , full soar she does rue . I'll o're Bogie , etc Her Parents did refuse her , so she must go away , To beg with her young Bastard , for many a year and Day , Come all the Pretty Demasals , take warning here I Pray , Have not a light Beheavour , Your Parents do Obey , I'll o're Bogie , etc Likewise a Lesson take by me , of Loving of young Men , lest you do prove with Child , they go and leave you then , I'll o're Bogie we my Love , I'll o're Bogie we him , And all my Kine had sworn and said I'll o're Bogie we him . FINIS . And excellent new Song lately composed , entitled I'le o're Bogie we him . To its own proper New Tune , ALL Bachelors and Lasses I Pray you now draw near , And do you hold your Passion , A Story you shall hear , Of a young wanton Lassie , That would not Counciled be , But she would over Gady , Her Fortaine for to see . I'll o're Bogie we my Love , I'll o're Bogie we him , And all my Kine had Sworn and said I'll o're Bogie we him . My Love's a Valiant Highland Man and true to his King . A Pair of Pistols by his side , and a well hung Loom , He Courted me with Compliments that did entice me so , That I would leave my Parents , and over Gaudy go , I'll o're Bogie . etc He asked my Hair in Compliment for to make me a Wig , And long or e'rn we parted he bored my Whirle-gige , He Fufled all my Petticoat . and felled about my Spare , He ne're would be contented ; until that he felled more , I'll o're Bogie . etc He laid me down upon my back , and all my Buttocks bair , And he pull'd out and Instrument , that could me to a Hair , He took the Sheers into his Hand , he cowed my Head full bore , But immediately thereafter , he Swore that I had more , I'll o're Bogie , etc He might have been a Minister , he was a Lairds Son , For ne're a Hold that he could see but he would fain been in ; Pray take from me my Rock Mother but and my Spining While , I'll o're Bogie we my Love , though I should ne're do well , I'll o're Bogie , etc O my dearest Daughter , why will you say so , Will you leave Father and Mother . and over Gaudy go , Go home , go home old Mother , go home and Fell your Ale , I wish that all your Barrals break and you get little seal , I'll o're Bogie . etc Although the Night were ne're so dark blowing both Wind and Rain , I'll o're Gaudy we my Love , and will not it Refrain , And out then came her Father dear , and angry was he then , Says Daughter for my Bennision forsake that Highland Man , I'll o're Bogie , etc Go home , go home my Father dear go home and Sow your Corn , I wish that never more come up , but Thristle , Brier and Thorn , And now my dearest Lover , Come lets us mount and go , And we will ovet Gady , my dear it shall be so , I'll o're Bogie , etc - Soon on Monday Morning , by Dawning of the Day , While Phebus was adorning , They both have gone away , With hassing and with Kissing , she went into his Arms , With great Love to adore him , Yielding all Mortal Charms , I'll o're Bogie , etc And now this Pretty Damasel , that ne're would Counciled be , Shes over Gady with her Love , her Fortune for to see , But when some Weeks were gone & passed this Lass with Child did prove , Her sweet Heart's gone and left her and choist another Love , I'll o're Bogie , etc But now this Pretty Damasel , knows none that will provide , For her and her young Baby , for them for to get Bred , She's come home to her Father . and to her Mother now , And says her Disobedience , full soar she does rue . I'll o're Bogie , etc Her Parents did refuse her , so she must go away , To beg with her young Bastard , for many a year and Day , Come all the Pretty Demasals , take warning here I Pray , Have not a light Beheavour , Your Parents do Obey , I'll o're Bogie , etc Likewise a Lesson take by me , of Loving of young Men , lest you do prove with Child , they go and leave you then , I'll o're Bogie we my Love , I'll o're Bogie we him , And all my Kine had sworn and said I'll o're Bogie we him . FINIS . 