THE wandering PRINCE and PRINCESS Or , Musidorus and Amadine , both of Royal Prognry , who being unfortunately separated by means of their Parents disagreeing ; as fortunately met in a Desert , while they both resolved never to cease from searching , till they had found out each other . In shady Deserts where was none but Beasts to hear these Lovers moan , There these faithful Lovers met , Their Marriage day was quickly set . Tune , Young Phaon . WHen Musidorus fell in love with Amadine most fair , Her Father cross to him did prove , which caus'd him to despair , And for to ease his troubled mind he wandered in disguise , Hoping he might soon comfort find , yet tears drop't from his eyes . Alas ( quoth he ) what shall I do , I am unfortunate , And though my Love is firm and true I meet with Rigid fate , For she who is my hearts delight , her Father is my foe , Which causes me to take my flight , now to the woods I go . In woods and deserts i'le reside , since my poor Amadine Whom once I thought to make my bride , she must not now be mine , My father's Court I quite forsake never again to see , For love my heart will surely break my dear i'le die for thee , Thus went this wandering Prince to seek throughout the deserts wide , Some secret place where he might keep and secretly abide , At last he did a Shepherd turn still minding of his flocks , Which caus'd his Amadine to mourn and tear her golden Locks , Alas , alas this Princess cry'd has he forsaken me , Who I did think could ne'r abide where I should absent be , Some sudden change possessed his breast that makes him prove unkind , While Amadine can take no rest to ease her love sick heart . Thus Amadine whose troubled mind was sorely fill'd with grief , For want of Musidorus pin'd , and could find no Relief ; Then she a Resolution took what e're did her betide , Her Prince so dear she would go look throughout the world so wide . And privately away she went , to all her friends unknown , To give her troubled mind content she wandered all alone ? Until she came into a place where Savage beasts alone Were known in numbers to increase , and thus she made her moan . Ah! hapless wretch quoth she I am of Lovers , yea , the worst , While some delight to feel loves flame I think my self accursed ; Yet will I never rest till I find out this Prince of mine , Who strangely and so privately forsook his Amadine . A shower of tears then trickled down from her bright shining eyes , Whose beauty did the deserts crown , whose sighs then fill'd the Skies ; And Musidorus being near , did chance to hear her voice , Though first he was possessed with fear , at last he did rejoice . Certain it is quoth he the Tongue of my poor Amadine , To whom I have done too much wrong , which grieves this soul of mine ; To her sad heart I will give ease since she is in distress , For love is such a strange disease no Tongue can well express - To Amadine he then appear'd , who startled was to see , She was by any over herd and in a found fell she : But her dear Prince with kisses sweet brought her again to life , That meeting was to them most sweet , he made her soon his wife . THE wandering PRINCE and PRINCESS Or , Musidorus and Amadine , both of Royal Prognry , who being unfortunately separated by means of their Parents disagreeing ; as fortunately met in a Desert , while they both resolved never to cease from searching , till they had found out each other . In shady Deserts where was none but Beasts to hear these Lovers moan , There these faithful Lovers met , Their Marriage day was quickly set . Tune , Young Phaon . WHen Musidorus fell in love with Amadine most fair , Her Father cross to him did prove , which caus'd him to despair , And for to ease his troubled mind he wandered in disguise , Hoping he might soon comfort find , yet tears drop't from his eyes . Alas ( quoth he ) what shall I do , I am unfortunate , And though my Love is firm and true I meet with Rigid fate , For she who is my hearts delight , her Father is my foe , Which causes me to take my flight , now to the woods I go . In woods and deserts i'le reside , since my poor Amadine Whom once I thought to make my bride , she must not now be mine , My father's Court I quite forsake never again to see , For love my heart will surely break my dear i'le die for thee , Thus went this wandering Prince to seek throughout the deserts wide , Some secret place where he might keep and secretly abide , At last he did a Shepherd turn still minding of his flocks , Which caus'd his Amadine to mourn and tear her golden Locks , Alas , alas this Princess cry'd has he forsaken me , Who I did think could ne'r abide where I should absent be , Some sudden change possessed his breast that makes him prove unkind , While Amadine can take no rest to ease her love sick heart . Thus Amadine whose troubled mind was sorely fill'd with grief , For want of Musidorus pin'd , and could find no Relief ; Then she a Resolution took what e're did her betide , Her Prince so dear she would go look throughout the world so wide . And privately away she went , to all her friends unknown , To give her troubled mind content she wandered all alone ? Until she came into a place where Savage beasts alone Were known in numbers to increase , and thus she made her moan . Ah! hapless wretch quoth she I am of Lovers , yea , the worst , While some delight to feel loves flame I think my self accursed ; Yet will I never rest till I find out this Prince of mine , Who strangely and so privately forsook his Amadine . A shower of tears then trickled down from her bright shining eyes , Whose beauty did the deserts crown , whose sighs then fill'd the Skies ; And Musidorus being near , did chance to hear her voice , Though first he was possessed with fear , at last he did rejoice . Certain it is quoth he the Tongue of my poor Amadine , To whom I have done too much wrong , which grieves this soul of mine ; To her sad heart I will give ease since she is in distress , For love is such a strange disease no Tongue can well express - To Amadine he then appear'd , who startled was to see , She was by any over herd and in a found fell she : But her dear Prince with kisses sweet brought her again to life , That meeting was to them most sweet , he made her soon his wife . 