Sir William of the Wes OR , The Entire Love and Courtship , between a Noble Knight and Beautiful Marry ; a Minister's Daughter in Dorsetshire . Tune of The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . YOung William met his Love taking her Pleasure , Whom he did prize above all Worldly Treasure ; When she appear'd in sighed , said he , sweet Jewel Thou art my heart's delight O! be not Cruel . Let me one smile enjoy thy heart surrender , Love be no longer Coy to thy Pretender ; My fading Joys restore why shouldst thou grieve me ? Thy Charms I do adore , dearest believe me . Mary my only Joy , pity thy Lover Do not my Life destroy while I discover , How I am here inflam'd by thy fair Beauty Sure I cannot be blam'd to own my Duty . I am commanded so by Cupid's Power , Darts from whose fatal Bow soon will Devour My Life , if I deny to fallen before thee , Therefore Love , live or die I will adore thee . Five hundred pounds a year I am possessing , And if thou wilt my dear , grant me the Blessing , Thou shalt be Dame of all I can't deny thee , If now in Love I shall dearest , lie by thee . Here take both heart and hand I dearly love thee No Lady in the Land shall shine above thee , The same shall ever hold no Friend shall check thee , In Robes of shining Gold and Pearl I'll deck thee . Love had I now this day the Gold of Craesus I'd not be drawn away ; kind Heaven bless us : Still will I dote on thee , this is no Story , Thou shouldst a Partner be of all my Glory . The Damsel then reply'd If you are Loyal I yield to be your Bride without denial : Gain but my Friends Good will , Father and Mother , Whom I have honour'd still , above all other . When you have their Consent , that we should marry , Then I am well content , long will not tarry ; At their discretion I still will be guided , Who from my Infancy for me provided . I hope said he , my Love , they'll not deny me , If my sweet tender Dove will but stand by me . With that he straight did go in hope's to have her ; They never answer'd no , but freely gave her . She was a fair young Dame , a Parson's Daughter ; He from a Baron came , of whom hereafter A large Account I'll give when I have leisure , How they in Triumph live , Joy , Peace , and Pleasure . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . Sir William of the Wes OR , The Entire Love and Courtship , between a Noble Knight and Beautiful Marry ; a Minister's Daughter in Dorsetshire . Tune of The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . YOung William met his Love taking her Pleasure , Whom he did prize above all Worldly Treasure ; When she appear'd in sighed , said he , sweet Jewel Thou art my heart's delight O! be not Cruel . Let me one smile enjoy thy heart surrender , Love be no longer Coy to thy Pretender ; My fading Joys restore why shouldst thou grieve me ? Thy Charms I do adore , dearest believe me . Mary my only Joy , pity thy Lover Do not my Life destroy while I discover , How I am here inflam'd by thy fair Beauty Sure I cannot be blam'd to own my Duty . I am commanded so by Cupid's Power , Darts from whose fatal Bow soon will Devour My Life , if I deny to fallen before thee , Therefore Love , live or die I will adore thee . Five hundred pounds a year I am possessing , And if thou wilt my dear , grant me the Blessing , Thou shalt be Dame of all I can't deny thee , If now in Love I shall dearest , lie by thee . Here take both heart and hand I dearly love thee No Lady in the Land shall shine above thee , The same shall ever hold no Friend shall check thee , In Robes of shining Gold and Pearl I'll deck thee . Love had I now this day the Gold of Craesus I'd not be drawn away ; kind Heaven bless us : Still will I dote on thee , this is no Story , Thou shouldst a Partner be of all my Glory . The Damsel then reply'd If you are Loyal I yield to be your Bride without denial : Gain but my Friends Good will , Father and Mother , Whom I have honour'd still , above all other . When you have their Consent , that we should marry , Then I am well content , long will not tarry ; At their discretion I still will be guided , Who from my Infancy for me provided . I hope said he , my Love , they'll not deny me , If my sweet tender Dove will but stand by me . With that he straight did go in hope's to have her ; They never answer'd no , but freely gave her . She was a fair young Dame , a Parson's Daughter ; He from a Baron came , of whom hereafter A large Account I'll give when I have leisure , How they in Triumph live , Joy , Peace , and Pleasure . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 