A pleasant Song made by a Soldier , whose brinring up had been dainty : and partly by those affections of his unbridled youth-is-now beaten with his own rod : and therefore termeth this his Repentance , on the fallen of Folly . To and excellent tune , called , Calino . IN Summer time when Phoebus rays , Did cheer each mortal men delight , Increasing of the cheerful days , and cutting of the darksome nights . When nature brougth fourth every thing By just return of April showers , To make the pleasant Branches spring , with sundry sorts of herbs and flowers . It was my chance to walk abroad , To view Dame Nature's new come brood The pretty Birds did lay on load , with sugared tunes in every wood . The gallant Nightingale did set Her speckled breast against a Bryer , Whose mournful tunes bewail ( as yet ) her brother Tereus false desire . The Serpents having cast their coats Lay listening how the Birds did sing , The pretty Birds with sugared notes , did welcome in the pleasant spring . I drew me to the Greenwood side , To hear this Country harmony , Whereas er'e long I had espy'd , a woeful man in misery . He lay alons upon the ground , And to the Heavens he cast his eye , The bordering Hills and Dales resound , the eccho's of his piteous cry . He wailing soar , and sighing said , O Heavens what endless grief have I , Why are my sorrows thus delayed come therefore death and let me die . When Nature first had made my frame , And set me lose when she had done , Steps Fortune in that fickle Dame , to end what Nature had begun . She set my feet upon her knee , And blessed my tender age with store , But in the end she did agree , to mar what she had made before . I could no sooner creep alone , But she forsook her fostered child . I had no lands to live upon , but trac'd abroad the world so wild . At length I fell in company , With gallant Youths of Mars his tra [ i ] n , I spent my life in jeopardy , and god my labour for my pain . I watched on the sieged walls , In thunder , lightning rain and snow And oft being shot with powdered Balls , whose costly marks are yet to show . When all my kindred took their rest , At home in many a stately Bed , The ground and pavement was my nest , my Flask a pillow for my head , My meat was such as I could get , Of Roots and Herbs of sundry sorts , Which did content my hungry mind although my commons were but short . My powder serv'd to salt my meat , My Murrion for a guilded Cup , Whereas such drink as I could get in Spring or Ditch I drank it up . My Rapier always by my side , My Piece lay charg'd with match & light , Thus many a month I did abide , to ward all day and watch by night . I lived in this glorious vain , Until my limbs grew stiff and lame , And thus I god me home again regarding no such costly fame . When I came home I made a proof , What friends would do if need should be , My nearest kin-folks looked aloof , as though they had forgotten me . And as the Owl by chattering charms Is wondered at of other Birds So they came wondering at my harms , and yield me no relief but words . Thus do I want while they have store That am their equal every way , Though fortune lent them somewhat more else had I been as good as they . Come gent [ l ] e Death and end my grief , You pretty Birds ring forth my knell Let Robin redbreast be the chief , to bury me and so farewell . Let no good Soldier be dismayed , To fight in Field with courage bold , Yet mark the words that I have said , trust not to friends when thou art old . A pleasant Song made by a Soldier , whose brinring up had been dainty : and partly by those affections of his unbridled youth-is-now beaten with his own rod : and therefore termeth this his Repentance , on the fallen of Folly . To and excellent tune , called , Calino . IN Summer time when Phoebus rays , Did cheer each mortal men delight , Increasing of the cheerful days , and cutting of the darksome nights . When nature brougth fourth every thing By just return of April showers , To make the pleasant Branches spring , with sundry sorts of herbs and flowers . It was my chance to walk abroad , To view Dame Nature's new come brood The pretty Birds did lay on load , with sugared tunes in every wood . The gallant Nightingale did set Her speckled breast against a Bryer , Whose mournful tunes bewail ( as yet ) her brother Tereus false desire . The Serpents having cast their coats Lay listening how the Birds did sing , The pretty Birds with sugared notes , did welcome in the pleasant spring . I drew me to the Greenwood side , To hear this Country harmony , Whereas er'e long I had espy'd , a woeful man in misery . He lay alons upon the ground , And to the Heavens he cast his eye , The bordering Hills and Dales resound , the eccho's of his piteous cry . He wailing soar , and sighing said , O Heavens what endless grief have I , Why are my sorrows thus delayed come therefore death and let me die . When Nature first had made my frame , And set me lose when she had done , Steps Fortune in that fickle Dame , to end what Nature had begun . She set my feet upon her knee , And blessed my tender age with store , But in the end she did agree , to mar what she had made before . I could no sooner creep alone , But she forsook her fostered child . I had no lands to live upon , but trac'd abroad the world so wild . At length I fell in company , With gallant Youths of Mars his tra [ i ] n , I spent my life in jeopardy , and god my labour for my pain . I watched on the sieged walls , In thunder , lightning rain and snow And oft being shot with powdered Balls , whose costly marks are yet to show . When all my kindred took their rest , At home in many a stately Bed , The ground and pavement was my nest , my Flask a pillow for my head , My meat was such as I could get , Of Roots and Herbs of sundry sorts , Which did content my hungry mind although my commons were but short . My powder serv'd to salt my meat , My Murrion for a guilded Cup , Whereas such drink as I could get in Spring or Ditch I drank it up . My Rapier always by my side , My Piece lay charg'd with match & light , Thus many a month I did abide , to ward all day and watch by night . I lived in this glorious vain , Until my limbs grew stiff and lame , And thus I god me home again regarding no such costly fame . When I came home I made a proof , What friends would do if need should be , My nearest kin-folks looked aloof , as though they had forgotten me . And as the Owl by chattering charms Is wondered at of other Birds So they came wondering at my harms , and yield me no relief but words . Thus do I want while they have store That am their equal every way , Though fortune lent them somewhat more else had I been as good as they . Come gent [ l ] e Death and end my grief , You pretty Birds ring forth my knell Let Robin redbreast be the chief , to bury me and so farewell . Let no good Soldier be dismayed , To fight in Field with courage bold , Yet mark the words that I have said , trust not to friends when thou art old . 