The Country Girl's Policy ; Or , the Cockney Outwitted . ALL you that are to Mirth inclin'd come tarry here a little while : Pray read it once and I do not fear , but soon it will make you to smile . The Londoners call us Country Fools , and laugh at us every day . But I'll let them see before I have done , we know as good things as they . A jolly young Girl in Herefordshire , who lately had learn'd to Dance : In less than the Space of one whole Year , she light of a Child by chance . Being very poor this cunning Whore , upon a Certain Day , Resolved was she the City to see , so to London she took her way . With and old straw Hat , and her tail pinn'd up , and with Dirt instead of Fringe ; Not long ago this cunning Slut did come to the Royal Exchange , With the Child in a Basket under her Arm close covered 'as it is said , With a clean white Cloth , and at each end Hung out a Goose's Head. She saw two Stock Jobbers standing by , She then unto one did say , Gaffer what stately Church is this ; come tell me now I pray ; The other to her Smiling said , how like a Fool you talk ! This is no Church it is the Change . where all the Merchant's walk . Is this the Change , good Sir ? she said , a glorious Place it be , A finer Place , in all my Life , I never before did see I'll warrant you there's fine Chambers in't as you and I do live , Now if you'll let me go and see , a Penny to you I will give . The one said , your Basket I will hold and tarry here below , While my Consort goes up with you , the Chambers for to show : She answered I am afraid , that when I do come down , You will be gone , and I would not loose ; my Basket for a Crown I am not such a Man he cry'd , and that I'd have you know ; She gave it him , and with her guide she up the Stairs did go ; She view'd the Pictures very fine , and did them much admire , He soon dropp'd her , she down Stairs run and after him did inquire . She Straight runs up to a Merchant , good honest Man , said she , Did not you see a thick tall Man that had two Geese of me ? Alas ! said he , poor country Girl our Cockneys are too quick : Go home and tell your Country Girls , of this fine London trick . She stamp'd and cry'd thus to be bit , would make a Body swear I'll never come to the Royal Exchange , any more to fell my Ware ; For by a couple of cheating Knaves , alas ! am undone : She gave a Stamp , and laugh'd aloud , and then away she run But now we will to the Jobbers turn , who thought they had god a Prize , They stepped into and Alehouse , and sent for both their Wives , They told them the Story , with Hearts both merry and light , Said they we'll have a Frolic on't , and roast them both at Night . The Women cry'd , no , one at a Time , the further they will go , The other we'll have at another house , and order the Matter so , Thus they began to jangle , and god on either Side ; But all the while this Basker stood , without ever a Knot unty'd . Then opening of the Basket , as I the truth unfold ; There did they find a curious Boy , just about five Weeks old . The Women flew into a Damnable Rage . O how they did scold and curse , Instead of a Cook , you Rogues said they you must run and call a Nurse The one said , this is your Bastard , Sirrah , you have had by some common Whore , If these be your Geese ; you Rogues , she said I never shall love Geese more : The one she kick'd the drink all down , the other whipp'd up the Glass , And after she had drunk the Beer , she threw it and cut his Face , There was Helter-skelter the Devil to pay o how the Pots did fly ! Just as they were in the midst of the Fray , the child began to cry : There were clouts and blankets all beshit , such sights are seldom seen I hope it will learn them both more wit , how they meddle with Geese again . They put it out for there Shillings a week which is Eighteen pence a piece , Which they pay every Saturday Night , in Remembrance of the Geese , Come here's a health to the County Lass I think she was not to blame ; If she has but Wit to take care of her TO -- she may pass for a Maid again . The Country Girl's Policy ; Or , the Cockney Outwitted . ALL you that are to Mirth inclin'd come tarry here a little while : Pray read it once and I do not fear , but soon it will make you to smile . The Londoners call us Country Fools , and laugh at us every day . But I'll let them see before I have done , we know as good things as they . A jolly young Girl in Herefordshire , who lately had learn'd to Dance : In less than the Space of one whole Year , she light of a Child by chance . Being very poor this cunning Whore , upon a Certain Day , Resolved was she the City to see , so to London she took her way . With and old straw Hat , and her tail pinn'd up , and with Dirt instead of Fringe ; Not long ago this cunning Slut did come to the Royal Exchange , With the Child in a Basket under her Arm close covered 'as it is said , With a clean white Cloth , and at each end Hung out a Goose's Head. She saw two Stock Jobbers standing by , She then unto one did say , Gaffer what stately Church is this ; come tell me now I pray ; The other to her Smiling said , how like a Fool you talk ! This is no Church it is the Change . where all the Merchant's walk . Is this the Change , good Sir ? she said , a glorious Place it be , A finer Place , in all my Life , I never before did see I'll warrant you there's fine Chambers in't as you and I do live , Now if you'll let me go and see , a Penny to you I will give . The one said , your Basket I will hold and tarry here below , While my Consort goes up with you , the Chambers for to show : She answered I am afraid , that when I do come down , You will be gone , and I would not loose ; my Basket for a Crown I am not such a Man he cry'd , and that I'd have you know ; She gave it him , and with her guide she up the Stairs did go ; She view'd the Pictures very fine , and did them much admire , He soon dropp'd her , she down Stairs run and after him did inquire . She Straight runs up to a Merchant , good honest Man , said she , Did not you see a thick tall Man that had two Geese of me ? Alas ! said he , poor country Girl our Cockneys are too quick : Go home and tell your Country Girls , of this fine London trick . She stamp'd and cry'd thus to be bit , would make a Body swear I'll never come to the Royal Exchange , any more to fell my Ware ; For by a couple of cheating Knaves , alas ! am undone : She gave a Stamp , and laugh'd aloud , and then away she run But now we will to the Jobbers turn , who thought they had god a Prize , They stepped into and Alehouse , and sent for both their Wives , They told them the Story , with Hearts both merry and light , Said they we'll have a Frolic on't , and roast them both at Night . The Women cry'd , no , one at a Time , the further they will go , The other we'll have at another house , and order the Matter so , Thus they began to jangle , and god on either Side ; But all the while this Basker stood , without ever a Knot unty'd . Then opening of the Basket , as I the truth unfold ; There did they find a curious Boy , just about five Weeks old . The Women flew into a Damnable Rage . O how they did scold and curse , Instead of a Cook , you Rogues said they you must run and call a Nurse The one said , this is your Bastard , Sirrah , you have had by some common Whore , If these be your Geese ; you Rogues , she said I never shall love Geese more : The one she kick'd the drink all down , the other whipp'd up the Glass , And after she had drunk the Beer , she threw it and cut his Face , There was Helter-skelter the Devil to pay o how the Pots did fly ! Just as they were in the midst of the Fray , the child began to cry : There were clouts and blankets all beshit , such sights are seldom seen I hope it will learn them both more wit , how they meddle with Geese again . They put it out for there Shillings a week which is Eighteen pence a piece , Which they pay every Saturday Night , in Remembrance of the Geese , Come here's a health to the County Lass I think she was not to blame ; If she has but Wit to take care of her TO -- she may pass for a Maid again . 