THE COUNTRY GIRL's POLICY ; OR , THE COCKNEY OUTWITTED . ALL you that are to Mirth inclin'd , Come tarry here a little while : Pray read it once , and I do not fear , But soon it will make you to smile . The Londoners call us Country Fools , And laugh at us every Day ; But I'll let them see before I have done , We know as good Things as they . A jolly young Girl in Hertfordshire , Who had lately learn'd to dance ; In less than the Space of one whole Year , She light of a Child by Chance . Being very poor , this cunning Whore , Upon a certain Day , Resolved was she the City to see , So to London she took her Way . With and old Straw Hat , and her Tail pinn'd up , And with Dirt instead of Fringe ; Not long ago this cunning Slut Did come to the Royal Exchange , With the Child in a Basket under her Arm , Close covered , as it is said , With a clean white Cloth , and at each End Hung out a Goose's Head. She saw two Stock Jobbers standing by , She then unto one did say , Gaffer , what stately Church is this ? Come tell me now I pray : The other to her smiling said , How like a Fool you talk ! This is no Church , it is the 'Change , Where all the Merchant's walk . Is this the 'Change , good Sir ? she said , A glorious Place it be ; A finer Place in all my Life , I never before did see : I'll warrant you there's fine Chambers in't , As you and I do live ; Now if you'll let me go and see , A Penny to you I will give . The one said , Your Basket I will hold , And tarry here below , While my Consort goes up [ wi ] th you , The Chambers for to show : She answered , I am afraid , That when I do come down , You will be gone , and I would not loose My Basket for a Crown . I am not such a Man he said , And that I'd have you know ; She gave it him , and with her Guide She up the Stairs did go : She view'd the Pictures very fine , And did them much admire ; He soon dropp'd her , she down Stairs run , And after him did inquire . She straight runs up to a Merchant , Good honest Man , said she , Did not you see a thick tall Man That had two Geese of me ? Alas ! said he , poor Country Girl , Our Cockneys are too quick ; Go home and tell your Country Girls , Of this fine London Trick . She stamp'd and cry'd , Thus to be bit , Would make a Body swear ; Never to come to the Royal Exchange , Any more to to fell their Ware , For by a Couple of cheating Knaves , Alas ! I am undone : She gave a Stamp , and laugh'd aloud , And then away she run . But now we will to the Jobbers turn , Who thought they had god a Prize ; They stepped into and Alehouse , And sent for both their Wives : They told to them the Story , With Hearts both merry and light ; Said they , We will have a Frolic on't , And roast them both at Night . The Women cry'd , No , one at a Time , And the farther they will go , The other we'll have at another House , And order the Matter so : Thus they began to jangle , And god on either Side : But all this while the Basket stood , Without ever a Knot unty'd . Then opening of the Basket , As I the Truth unfold ; There did they find a curious Boy , Just about five Weeks old . The Women flew in a damnable Rage , Oh how they did scold and curse : Instead of a Cook , you Rogue , said they , You must run and call a Nurse . The one said , This is your Bastard , Sirrah , You have had by some common Whore ; If these be your Geese , you Rogues , she said , I never shall love Geese more : The one she kick'd the Bottle down , The other whipp'd up the Glass , And after she had drank the Beer , She threw it and cut his Face . There was Helter-skelter , the Devil to pay , Oh how the Pots did fly ! Just as they were in the Midst of the Fray , The Child began to cry : There were Clouts and Blankets all beshit , Such Sights are seldom seen : I hope it will learn them both more Wit , How they meddle with Geese again . They put it out for three Shillings a Week , Which is Eighteenpence apiece , Which they pay every Saturday Night , In Remembrance of the Geese . Come , here's a Health to the Country Lass , I think she was not to blame ; If she has but Wit to take Care of her TO ---- tO , She may pass for a Maid again . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . THE COUNTRY GIRL's POLICY ; OR , THE COCKNEY OUTWITTED . ALL you that are to Mirth inclin'd , Come tarry here a little while : Pray read it once , and I do not fear , But soon it will make you to smile . The Londoners call us Country Fools , And laugh at us every Day ; But I'll let them see before I have done , We know as good Things as they . A jolly young Girl in Hertfordshire , Who had lately learn'd to dance ; In less than the Space of one whole Year , She light of a Child by Chance . Being very poor , this cunning Whore , Upon a certain Day , Resolved was she the City to see , So to London she took her Way . With and old Straw Hat , and her Tail pinn'd up , And with Dirt instead of Fringe ; Not long ago this cunning Slut Did come to the Royal Exchange , With the Child in a Basket under her Arm , Close covered , as it is said , With a clean white Cloth , and at each End Hung out a Goose's Head. She saw two Stock Jobbers standing by , She then unto one did say , Gaffer , what stately Church is this ? Come tell me now I pray : The other to her smiling said , How like a Fool you talk ! This is no Church , it is the 'Change , Where all the Merchant's walk . Is this the 'Change , good Sir ? she said , A glorious Place it be ; A finer Place in all my Life , I never before did see : I'll warrant you there's fine Chambers in't , As you and I do live ; Now if you'll let me go and see , A Penny to you I will give . The one said , Your Basket I will hold , And tarry here below , While my Consort goes up [ wi ] th you , The Chambers for to show : She answered , I am afraid , That when I do come down , You will be gone , and I would not loose My Basket for a Crown . I am not such a Man he said , And that I'd have you know ; She gave it him , and with her Guide She up the Stairs did go : She view'd the Pictures very fine , And did them much admire ; He soon dropp'd her , she down Stairs run , And after him did inquire . She straight runs up to a Merchant , Good honest Man , said she , Did not you see a thick tall Man That had two Geese of me ? Alas ! said he , poor Country Girl , Our Cockneys are too quick ; Go home and tell your Country Girls , Of this fine London Trick . She stamp'd and cry'd , Thus to be bit , Would make a Body swear ; Never to come to the Royal Exchange , Any more to to fell their Ware , For by a Couple of cheating Knaves , Alas ! I am undone : She gave a Stamp , and laugh'd aloud , And then away she run . But now we will to the Jobbers turn , Who thought they had god a Prize ; They stepped into and Alehouse , And sent for both their Wives : They told to them the Story , With Hearts both merry and light ; Said they , We will have a Frolic on't , And roast them both at Night . The Women cry'd , No , one at a Time , And the farther they will go , The other we'll have at another House , And order the Matter so : Thus they began to jangle , And god on either Side : But all this while the Basket stood , Without ever a Knot unty'd . Then opening of the Basket , As I the Truth unfold ; There did they find a curious Boy , Just about five Weeks old . The Women flew in a damnable Rage , Oh how they did scold and curse : Instead of a Cook , you Rogue , said they , You must run and call a Nurse . The one said , This is your Bastard , Sirrah , You have had by some common Whore ; If these be your Geese , you Rogues , she said , I never shall love Geese more : The one she kick'd the Bottle down , The other whipp'd up the Glass , And after she had drank the Beer , She threw it and cut his Face . There was Helter-skelter , the Devil to pay , Oh how the Pots did fly ! Just as they were in the Midst of the Fray , The Child began to cry : There were Clouts and Blankets all beshit , Such Sights are seldom seen : I hope it will learn them both more Wit , How they meddle with Geese again . They put it out for three Shillings a Week , Which is Eighteenpence apiece , Which they pay every Saturday Night , In Remembrance of the Geese . Come , here's a Health to the Country Lass , I think she was not to blame ; If she has but Wit to take Care of her TO ---- tO , She may pass for a Maid again . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . 