The Wonder of Wonders : OR , And Excellent SONG of a Six-Legged Creature . Tune of , Old Simon the King . This may be Printed . R.P. COme listen unto my new Ditty , it is of a Monstrous Creature Who lives in London's fair City she's known to be loving by Nature . She lives in Service with many , a Creature both loving and quiet , And wages she ne'r receives any , so she hath both Lodging and Diet . She is not for running away , her anger she soon can expel ; Till Death with her Master she'l stay , if that he will use her but well . This Creature she is not very tall , sometime she's upon the Exchange , Full six Legs she travels withal , o ! is this not wondrous strange ? She'l venture as far in a Battle as any stout Soldier that goes ; Tho' Cannons and Musquets do rattle , she cares not a Fig for her Foes . She value's no Pistol nor Gun , nor any Commanders high words ; Nor will she be put to the run , for fear of a thousand drawn Swords . She ranges the streets very late , her valour and courage is such , She fears not a knock on the pate by Constable , Beadle , or Watch . Thus she in her freedom does reign , no creature more stouter and bolder : The Stocks she does highly disdain , they never was able to hold her . A Washer she cannot endure , foul Linen is all her delight ; For there she can lie most secure , and never be put to the fright . That man that hath been a great waster , and every thing he does lack , She chooseth him to be her master , although not a shirt to his back . Although he be never so poor , without e're a Groat in his Purse , She'l guard him behind and before , her love it is never the worse . A fuller account I will give of her worthy Fame or Renown : This creature she often does live with many fine Blades of the Town . Her Pedigree now I'le unfold , resolving to speak in her praise ; She sprung from a Nation of old , where I never was many days : 'Twas AEgypt , as I have herd say , which once was our natural soil ; But now she is grown very grey , With traveling many a Mile . You know when old Herod was King , there then was a wondered sort Of these in that Nation did spring , and nursed by his Ladies at Court . The reason that many don't love her , because she such numbers does breed : But this is the worst I say of her , she is a Backbiter indeed . FINIS . Printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . Where any Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of new and old Songs . The Wonder of Wonders : OR , And Excellent SONG of a Six-Legged Creature . Tune of , Old Simon the King . This may be Printed . R.P. COme listen unto my new Ditty , it is of a Monstrous Creature Who lives in London's fair City she's known to be loving by Nature . She lives in Service with many , a Creature both loving and quiet , And wages she ne'r receives any , so she hath both Lodging and Diet . She is not for running away , her anger she soon can expel ; Till Death with her Master she'l stay , if that he will use her but well . This Creature she is not very tall , sometime she's upon the Exchange , Full six Legs she travels withal , o ! is this not wondrous strange ? She'l venture as far in a Battle as any stout Soldier that goes ; Tho' Cannons and Musquets do rattle , she cares not a Fig for her Foes . She value's no Pistol nor Gun , nor any Commanders high words ; Nor will she be put to the run , for fear of a thousand drawn Swords . She ranges the streets very late , her valour and courage is such , She fears not a knock on the pate by Constable , Beadle , or Watch . Thus she in her freedom does reign , no creature more stouter and bolder : The Stocks she does highly disdain , they never was able to hold her . A Washer she cannot endure , foul Linen is all her delight ; For there she can lie most secure , and never be put to the fright . That man that hath been a great waster , and every thing he does lack , She chooseth him to be her master , although not a shirt to his back . Although he be never so poor , without e're a Groat in his Purse , She'l guard him behind and before , her love it is never the worse . A fuller account I will give of her worthy Fame or Renown : This creature she often does live with many fine Blades of the Town . Her Pedigree now I'le unfold , resolving to speak in her praise ; She sprung from a Nation of old , where I never was many days : 'Twas AEgypt , as I have herd say , which once was our natural soil ; But now she is grown very grey , With traveling many a Mile . You know when old Herod was King , there then was a wondered sort Of these in that Nation did spring , and nursed by his Ladies at Court . The reason that many don't love her , because she such numbers does breed : But this is the worst I say of her , she is a Backbiter indeed . FINIS . Printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . Where any Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of new and old Songs . 