The World's Wonder . Giving and Account of Two Old Men , Lately known and seen in the City of Tholouze in France , who declare themselves to be a - above a Thousand Years old a piece , and Preach Repentance to the World ; telling what shall happen for these Nine Years following , and when the World shall end . Tune of , My Bleeding Heart . STrange News to England lately came , the like I think was never known ; And if it proves a certain truth , 'twill terror strike to hearts of Stone . A City great there is in France , and Tholouze is it call'd by name ; Two Prophets there was lately found , invisibly they thither came . No Man nor Child could ever tell which way these Prophets they came in , They say that they were sent from God , to reprehend the World for Sin. A Thousand Years of Age , and more , each of them do declare to be ; Methuselah ne'r liv'd so long , as by the Scriptures you may see . Gods Holy Spirit they declare into their Breasts inspired is ; In this our Age a thing so rare , I think there's none more strange then this . Strange kinds of habit they do wear , the like ne'r seen by mortal Eye ; And their deportment is as strange , although they Preach continually . Good Admonition they do give , advising all Men to Repent ; They say this is the only cause , that they into the World were sent . Gods Wrath against the Roman they do now declare is kindled hight ; And if with speed they dont Repent , their Crimes shall never be forgotten . The City of Tholouze , they say , to Sodom may compared be , And in three Months shall be consum'd by Flames of Fire undoubtedly . Except they do their lives amend ; and quite forsake Iniquity ; Which do the People much amaze , for this is their continual cry . The Magistrates offended were , at the strange Doctrine they did Preach : But they reply'd they came from God , the sinful People for to teach . At length there was and Order made , that they should close confined be ; With Jesuits they did discourse in several Tongues , most perfectly . Their Diet also was most strange , on Delicates they never fed ; Their Drink was only Water clear , their greatest Banquet was dry Bred . And then the Magistrates did ask these Prophets strange , from whence they came ? Their answer was , from Gallilee , Galladium was their Cities name . The Jesuits did then persuade the Magistrates , that they should go To Room to see his Holiness , that he the truth of all might know . At this they nothing daunted were , for they declar'd they knew their doom ; And seemed to be mighty free for to go see the Pope at Rome . But being Fetter'd then with Chains , at which they seem'd to make a scoff ; They much amaz'd the People all , for with great ease they shook them off . They Prophesy in Eighty-One , there shall be Troubles over all : In Eighty-Two they do declare , the Pope of Rome shall have a Fallen . In Eighty-Three throughout the World , they do declare , that Preach they shall : In Eighty-Four , that Jesus Christ shall without doubt be known to all . In Eighty-Five there shall arise , one that shall mighty be with Men : In Eighty-Six and Earthquake shall much terrify the World again . In Eighty-Seven , Africa shall quite consumed be by Fire ; In Eighty-Eight , the World amaz'd , in Eighty-Nine , the World expire . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The World's Wonder . Giving and Account of Two Old Men , Lately known and seen in the City of Tholouze in France , who declare themselves to be a - above a Thousand Years old a piece , and Preach Repentance to the World ; telling what shall happen for these Nine Years following , and when the World shall end . Tune of , My Bleeding Heart . STrange News to England lately came , the like I think was never known ; And if it proves a certain truth , 'twill terror strike to hearts of Stone . A City great there is in France , and Tholouze is it call'd by name ; Two Prophets there was lately found , invisibly they thither came . No Man nor Child could ever tell which way these Prophets they came in , They say that they were sent from God , to reprehend the World for Sin. A Thousand Years of Age , and more , each of them do declare to be ; Methuselah ne'r liv'd so long , as by the Scriptures you may see . Gods Holy Spirit they declare into their Breasts inspired is ; In this our Age a thing so rare , I think there's none more strange then this . Strange kinds of habit they do wear , the like ne'r seen by mortal Eye ; And their deportment is as strange , although they Preach continually . Good Admonition they do give , advising all Men to Repent ; They say this is the only cause , that they into the World were sent . Gods Wrath against the Roman they do now declare is kindled hight ; And if with speed they dont Repent , their Crimes shall never be forgotten . The City of Tholouze , they say , to Sodom may compared be , And in three Months shall be consum'd by Flames of Fire undoubtedly . Except they do their lives amend ; and quite forsake Iniquity ; Which do the People much amaze , for this is their continual cry . The Magistrates offended were , at the strange Doctrine they did Preach : But they reply'd they came from God , the sinful People for to teach . At length there was and Order made , that they should close confined be ; With Jesuits they did discourse in several Tongues , most perfectly . Their Diet also was most strange , on Delicates they never fed ; Their Drink was only Water clear , their greatest Banquet was dry Bred . And then the Magistrates did ask these Prophets strange , from whence they came ? Their answer was , from Gallilee , Galladium was their Cities name . The Jesuits did then persuade the Magistrates , that they should go To Room to see his Holiness , that he the truth of all might know . At this they nothing daunted were , for they declar'd they knew their doom ; And seemed to be mighty free for to go see the Pope at Rome . But being Fetter'd then with Chains , at which they seem'd to make a scoff ; They much amaz'd the People all , for with great ease they shook them off . They Prophesy in Eighty-One , there shall be Troubles over all : In Eighty-Two they do declare , the Pope of Rome shall have a Fallen . In Eighty-Three throughout the World , they do declare , that Preach they shall : In Eighty-Four , that Jesus Christ shall without doubt be known to all . In Eighty-Five there shall arise , one that shall mighty be with Men : In Eighty-Six and Earthquake shall much terrify the World again . In Eighty-Seven , Africa shall quite consumed be by Fire ; In Eighty-Eight , the World amaz'd , in Eighty-Nine , the World expire . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 