And Excellent BALLAD , of The Noble Marquis and Patient GRISSEL . To the Tune of , The Bride's Good Morrow . A Noble Marquis As he road a Hunting , Hard a by Forest Side , A fair and comely Maid As she sat a Spining , His gentle Eye espy'd : Most fair anly lovely , And of comely in Grace was she , Although simple Attire ; She sung full sweetly , With pleasant Voice melodiously , Which set the Lord's Heart on Fire : The more he look'd , the more he might Beauty bred his Heart's Deligh And to this Damsel Then he went with Speed , Good speed , ( quoth he , ) thou famious Flower . For Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue Dwells with sweet Content . With comely Gesture And modest mild Behaviour , She bids him welcome then ; She entertainde him In faithful friendly Manner , And all his Gentlemen : The noble Marquis In his Heart felt such a Flame , Which set his Senses all at Strife . Quoth he , fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy Name , I mean to make thee my Wife . Grissel is my Name , quoth she , Far unfit for your Degree ; Silly Maiden And of Parents poor . Nay , Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid : Grant me thy Love , And I will ask no more , At length she consented , And being both contented , They married were with Speed ; Her Country Russet Was chang'd to silk and Velvet , As to her State agreed : And when that she Was thus trimly tired in the same , Her Beauty shone most bright , Far staining every other Fair and princely Dame , That did appear in Sighs Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And 'twixt her Lord and she Great Strife did rise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her Beggar's Brat , And to her Lord They would her oft dispraise . O Noble Marquis ; Quoth they , why didst thou wrong us , Thus basely for to wed , Who might have got And honourable Lady Into your princely Bed ? Who will not now Your noble issue soon deride , Which shall hearafter be born , That art of Blood so base , Born by the Mother's Side , The which will bring them to Scorn ? Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage May renowned be be . Thus every Day they seem'd to prate That malic'd Grissel's good Estate ; Who all this while Took it most patiently . When that the Marquis Did see they were bent thus , Against his lawful Wife ; Whom he most dearly , Tenderly and entirely Lov'd as his Life ; Minding in Secret , For to try her patient Heart Thereby her Foes for to isgr [ a ] ce , Thinking to show her A hard discourteous Part , That Man might pity her Case : Great with Child the Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly Children At one Birth she had ; A Son and Daughter , GOD had sent Which did their Mother well content , And which did make Their Father's Heart full glad . Great Royal Feasting Was at these Children's Christening , And princely Triumph made , Six Weeks together , All Nobles that came thither , Were entertain'd and stayed : And when that all the pleasant Sporting quite was done , The Marquis a Messenger sent For his young Daughter And his pretty Smiling Son ; Declaring , his full Intent , How that the Babes must murdered be , For so the Marquis did decree : Come let me have The Children then , he said ; With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her Hands and said no more . My gracious Lord Must have his Will obey'd . She took the Babes Even from the Nursing-ladies , Between her tender Arms ; She often wished , With many sorrowful Kisses , That they might ease their Harms : Farewell , Farewell , A thousand Times my Children dear ; Never shall I see you again ; 'Tis long of me Your sad and woeful Mother here , For whose sake both must be slave ; Had I been born of Royal Raze You might have liv'd in happy Case , But you must die For my Unworthiness ; Come Messengers of Death , quoth she , Take my dearest Babes to thee , [ ? ] to their Father My Compliments express . He took the Children , And to his noble Master He boar them thence with Speed ; Who in Secret sent them Unto a noble Lady : To be brought up indeed : Then to fair Grissel With a heavy Heart he goes , Where she sat mildly all alone ; A pleasant Gesture , And a lovely Looks she shows , As if no Grief she had known : Quoth he , my Children now are slave , What thinks fare Grissel of the some ? Sweet Grissel now Declare thy Mind to me . Since you my Lord are pleased with it , Poor Grissel thinks the Actium fit ; Both I and Mine At your Command will be . My Nobles murmur , Fair Grissel , at thy Honour , And I no Joy can have , Till thou be banish'd Both from my Court and Presence , As they unjustly crave : Thou must be strip'd Of thy brave Garments all , As thou cam'st to me In homely Gray , Instead of Bliss and purest Pall , Now all thy Clothing must be . My Lady you must be no more , Nor I thy Lord which grieves me soar , The poorest Life Must now content thy Mind : A Groat to thee I dare not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel Such great Foes I find . When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful Tydiegs , The Tears stood in her Eyes , Nothing she answered No Words of Discontentment Did from her Lips arise . Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she strip'd off , Her Kertle of Silk with the same : Her Russet Gown Was brought again with many a Scoff , To bear them herself she did frame : When she was dressed in this Array , And ready for to pass away , GOD send long Life Unto my Lord , quoth she ; Let no Offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting Kiss , With watery Eyes Farewell , my Dear , said she . From a a princely Palace , Unto her Father's Cottage Poor Grissel she is gone Full fifteen Winter's She lived there contented , No wrong she thought upon , And at this Time through All the Land the Speeches went , The Marquis should married be , Unto a noble Lady Of high Descent , And to the same all Parties did agree The Marquis sent for Grissel fair , The Bride's Bed chamber to prepare , That nothing therein Might be found away , The Bride was with her Brother came , Which was great Joy to all and some , But Grissel took all this Most patiently . And in the Morning When as they should be wedded Her Patience there was try'd , Grissel was chrged Herself in friendly Manner For to attire the Bride : Most willingly She gave Consent to do the same ; The Bride in Bravery was dressed And presently The noble Marquis thither came , With all his Lords at his Request . O Grissel I will ask of thee ; If to this Match thou wilt agree ? Methinks thy Looks Are waxed wondrous coy . With that they began to smile . And Grissel she reply'd the while , GOD send Lord Marquis Many Years of Joy . The Marquis was moved To see his best Beloved Thus patient in Distress ; He stepped unto her , And by the Hand he took her , These Words he did expreses : Thou art my Bride , And all the Brides I mean to have , These two thine own Children be . The youthful Lady On her Knees did Blessing crave , Her Brother as well as she . And you that envy her Estate , Whom I have made my chosen Mate , Now blush for Shame . And honour virtuous Life ; The Chronicles of lasting Fame , Shall ever more extol the Name Of patient GRISSEL , My most constant Wife . Newcastle : upon Tyne Printed in this present YEAR . And Excellent BALLAD , of The Noble Marquis and Patient GRISSEL . To the Tune of , The Bride's Good Morrow . A Noble Marquis As he road a Hunting , Hard a by Forest Side , A fair and comely Maid As she sat a Spining , His gentle Eye espy'd : Most fair anly lovely , And of comely in Grace was she , Although simple Attire ; She sung full sweetly , With pleasant Voice melodiously , Which set the Lord's Heart on Fire : The more he look'd , the more he might Beauty bred his Heart's Deligh And to this Damsel Then he went with Speed , Good speed , ( quoth he , ) thou famious Flower . For Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue Dwells with sweet Content . With comely Gesture And modest mild Behaviour , She bids him welcome then ; She entertainde him In faithful friendly Manner , And all his Gentlemen : The noble Marquis In his Heart felt such a Flame , Which set his Senses all at Strife . Quoth he , fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy Name , I mean to make thee my Wife . Grissel is my Name , quoth she , Far unfit for your Degree ; Silly Maiden And of Parents poor . Nay , Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid : Grant me thy Love , And I will ask no more , At length she consented , And being both contented , They married were with Speed ; Her Country Russet Was chang'd to silk and Velvet , As to her State agreed : And when that she Was thus trimly tired in the same , Her Beauty shone most bright , Far staining every other Fair and princely Dame , That did appear in Sighs Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And 'twixt her Lord and she Great Strife did rise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her Beggar's Brat , And to her Lord They would her oft dispraise . O Noble Marquis ; Quoth they , why didst thou wrong us , Thus basely for to wed , Who might have got And honourable Lady Into your princely Bed ? Who will not now Your noble issue soon deride , Which shall hearafter be born , That art of Blood so base , Born by the Mother's Side , The which will bring them to Scorn ? Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage May renowned be be . Thus every Day they seem'd to prate That malic'd Grissel's good Estate ; Who all this while Took it most patiently . When that the Marquis Did see they were bent thus , Against his lawful Wife ; Whom he most dearly , Tenderly and entirely Lov'd as his Life ; Minding in Secret , For to try her patient Heart Thereby her Foes for to isgr [ a ] ce , Thinking to show her A hard discourteous Part , That Man might pity her Case : Great with Child the Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly Children At one Birth she had ; A Son and Daughter , GOD had sent Which did their Mother well content , And which did make Their Father's Heart full glad . Great Royal Feasting Was at these Children's Christening , And princely Triumph made , Six Weeks together , All Nobles that came thither , Were entertain'd and stayed : And when that all the pleasant Sporting quite was done , The Marquis a Messenger sent For his young Daughter And his pretty Smiling Son ; Declaring , his full Intent , How that the Babes must murdered be , For so the Marquis did decree : Come let me have The Children then , he said ; With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her Hands and said no more . My gracious Lord Must have his Will obey'd . She took the Babes Even from the Nursing-ladies , Between her tender Arms ; She often wished , With many sorrowful Kisses , That they might ease their Harms : Farewell , Farewell , A thousand Times my Children dear ; Never shall I see you again ; 'Tis long of me Your sad and woeful Mother here , For whose sake both must be slave ; Had I been born of Royal Raze You might have liv'd in happy Case , But you must die For my Unworthiness ; Come Messengers of Death , quoth she , Take my dearest Babes to thee , [ ? ] to their Father My Compliments express . He took the Children , And to his noble Master He boar them thence with Speed ; Who in Secret sent them Unto a noble Lady : To be brought up indeed : Then to fair Grissel With a heavy Heart he goes , Where she sat mildly all alone ; A pleasant Gesture , And a lovely Looks she shows , As if no Grief she had known : Quoth he , my Children now are slave , What thinks fare Grissel of the some ? Sweet Grissel now Declare thy Mind to me . Since you my Lord are pleased with it , Poor Grissel thinks the Actium fit ; Both I and Mine At your Command will be . My Nobles murmur , Fair Grissel , at thy Honour , And I no Joy can have , Till thou be banish'd Both from my Court and Presence , As they unjustly crave : Thou must be strip'd Of thy brave Garments all , As thou cam'st to me In homely Gray , Instead of Bliss and purest Pall , Now all thy Clothing must be . My Lady you must be no more , Nor I thy Lord which grieves me soar , The poorest Life Must now content thy Mind : A Groat to thee I dare not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel Such great Foes I find . When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful Tydiegs , The Tears stood in her Eyes , Nothing she answered No Words of Discontentment Did from her Lips arise . Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she strip'd off , Her Kertle of Silk with the same : Her Russet Gown Was brought again with many a Scoff , To bear them herself she did frame : When she was dressed in this Array , And ready for to pass away , GOD send long Life Unto my Lord , quoth she ; Let no Offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting Kiss , With watery Eyes Farewell , my Dear , said she . From a a princely Palace , Unto her Father's Cottage Poor Grissel she is gone Full fifteen Winter's She lived there contented , No wrong she thought upon , And at this Time through All the Land the Speeches went , The Marquis should married be , Unto a noble Lady Of high Descent , And to the same all Parties did agree The Marquis sent for Grissel fair , The Bride's Bed chamber to prepare , That nothing therein Might be found away , The Bride was with her Brother came , Which was great Joy to all and some , But Grissel took all this Most patiently . And in the Morning When as they should be wedded Her Patience there was try'd , Grissel was chrged Herself in friendly Manner For to attire the Bride : Most willingly She gave Consent to do the same ; The Bride in Bravery was dressed And presently The noble Marquis thither came , With all his Lords at his Request . O Grissel I will ask of thee ; If to this Match thou wilt agree ? Methinks thy Looks Are waxed wondrous coy . With that they began to smile . And Grissel she reply'd the while , GOD send Lord Marquis Many Years of Joy . The Marquis was moved To see his best Beloved Thus patient in Distress ; He stepped unto her , And by the Hand he took her , These Words he did expreses : Thou art my Bride , And all the Brides I mean to have , These two thine own Children be . The youthful Lady On her Knees did Blessing crave , Her Brother as well as she . And you that envy her Estate , Whom I have made my chosen Mate , Now blush for Shame . And honour virtuous Life ; The Chronicles of lasting Fame , Shall ever more extol the Name Of patient GRISSEL , My most constant Wife . Newcastle : upon Tyne Printed in this present YEAR . 