The Unfortunate Lovers ; Or , John True and Susan Mead. K ------ ATtend , you lovers , and give and ear Unto this mournful song , Of two that lived faithfully , But did each other wrong . At Coventry , in Warwickshire , This young man he did dwell , His name , John True , a Shoemaker , And liv'd very well . At Borley-Moor this maiden dwelled , Three miles from Coventry ; Yet for the love he boar to her , He would her often see . And coming to her on a time , He told to her his mind : Susan , quoth he , I love thee dear , Be not to me unkind . If thou can'st love and fancy me , In heart and eke in mind , I will prove loving unto thee , Be not to me unkind . Thy cheerful looks rejoice my heart , And merry make my mind . Sweet Susan , then love me again , Be not to me unkind . Good John , I thank you for your love And wish you at home to tarry : I am too young for to be wed , And have no will to marry . Where thou livest are maidens store , Most beautiful and free . Henceforth set not vain love on me , For I cannot love thee . This answer struck him to the heart , As cold as any stone : So homeward strait he did return , With many a bitter groan . Wishing that he had ne'er been born Or in his cradle dy'd . Unhappy man , to love so true , And yet to be deny'd . Quoth he , I'll go to her again , And hear what she does say . It may be she may be more kind , Tho' first she said me nay . So going to the town again , He sent for her straightway , Desiring her to speak to him , But still she said him nay . Then did he sighs , lament , and grieve , And knew not what to say ; So did he take his pen in band , And wrote these words straightway , My heart's delight and only joy , Kill me not with disdain ; Vouchsafe that I may speak to thee , To rid me of my pain . Resolve me , sweetest , I thee pray , Why is thy hatred such ? I know no cause , except it be For loving thee too much . As is my name , true is my love , Sweet Susan , unto thee : True is my name , true is my love , And evermore shall be . My love is honest , just and good , Kill me not with disdain ; Rather do me the courtesy , To love for love again . When she had [ r ] ead and understood His mind and his intent , She then began to like and love , And grant his heart's content . John , I am thine , if thou art mine , For ever and for aye . It was to try thy constancy , That I did say thee nay . But here's my hand , hear and love , I'll ne'er thee more deny , My love is constant , firm , and true , And shall be 'till I die . Then they embrac'd each other's love And join'd in heart and voice , That she of him , and he of her , Had made so sweet a choice . But fortune that does often frown , Where she before did smile , The man's delight , the maiden's joy Full soon she did beguile . When she was settled in her love , Then he would change her mind . And for to try her constancy , Would be to her unkind . And thus resolved in his mind , He'd go to her no more : But went and woo'd another maid , Which griev'd her heart full soar . Quoth he , she proved unto me , Hard hearted and unkind : But now her true love I have wone I'll bear the selfsame mind . When she perceiv'd his love to her Not as it was wont to be , She did lament , sighs , weep , and grieve And these words said she : Falsehearted wretch , adieu , quoth she Disloyal and unkind . And if I die for love of thee , Thou shalt not know my mind . Woe to the time I did believe That flattering tongue of thine ; Would to God I ne'er had seen The tears of those false eyes . Hard hap I had to set my love On one that mocks me , Sure all the country did not yield A man so false as he . Thus was she brought to mean estate All comfort from her fled . She did desire to speak with him , Before that she was dead . Her friends did seek to cheer her up , And to make glad her mind : But she was kill'd for loving him , Who was to her unkind . Falsehearted man , may never maid Love thee as I have done . But may my death remember'd be To time that is to come : But may all maids a warning take , By this my mournful death . And now , Oh Lord ! receive my soul , To thee I give my breath : Thus died the pattern of true love , Thus died a virtuous maid . Thus died a good and harmless lass , As ever love betray'd ; Six maids in white , as custom is , Did bear her to her grave : Her parents grieve , lament and mourn No child at all they have . When as her lover understood For love that she was dead ; He rag'd , and ready was to tear The hair from off his head . But when he came unto the place Where his true lover lay , He straightway run unto the gave , And there these words did say ; Susan , quoth he , I'll kiss thy grave , Upon my bent knee ; Whereby I'll show to all the world , How much I did love thee . And as he lay upon the ground , He herd the voice to say , John True , if ever thou lov'st me , Make haste and come away . Then started he up from the grave , And stood like one struck dumb ; And when he had regain'd his speech He said , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his wits , He rag'd in furious sort ; That all the neighbours round about Were griev'd at the report ; And thus in sorrow and grief of heart He lay a whole fortnight ; And when he had confess'd his fault , He yielded up his spirit . According to his heart's desire , And as he did request , They dug his grave and laid him down By her whom he lov'd best . You young men all that have true love Be true unto your friend , And if you love , be sure you love , Be true unto the end : And thus I end my story true , So full of grief and woe ; May never any such again To wrong any other so . The Unfortunate Lovers ; Or , John True and Susan Mead. K ------ ATtend , you lovers , and give and ear Unto this mournful song , Of two that lived faithfully , But did each other wrong . At Coventry , in Warwickshire , This young man he did dwell , His name , John True , a Shoemaker , And liv'd very well . At Borley-Moor this maiden dwelled , Three miles from Coventry ; Yet for the love he boar to her , He would her often see . And coming to her on a time , He told to her his mind : Susan , quoth he , I love thee dear , Be not to me unkind . If thou can'st love and fancy me , In heart and eke in mind , I will prove loving unto thee , Be not to me unkind . Thy cheerful looks rejoice my heart , And merry make my mind . Sweet Susan , then love me again , Be not to me unkind . Good John , I thank you for your love And wish you at home to tarry : I am too young for to be wed , And have no will to marry . Where thou livest are maidens store , Most beautiful and free . Henceforth set not vain love on me , For I cannot love thee . This answer struck him to the heart , As cold as any stone : So homeward strait he did return , With many a bitter groan . Wishing that he had ne'er been born Or in his cradle dy'd . Unhappy man , to love so true , And yet to be deny'd . Quoth he , I'll go to her again , And hear what she does say . It may be she may be more kind , Tho' first she said me nay . So going to the town again , He sent for her straightway , Desiring her to speak to him , But still she said him nay . Then did he sighs , lament , and grieve , And knew not what to say ; So did he take his pen in band , And wrote these words straightway , My heart's delight and only joy , Kill me not with disdain ; Vouchsafe that I may speak to thee , To rid me of my pain . Resolve me , sweetest , I thee pray , Why is thy hatred such ? I know no cause , except it be For loving thee too much . As is my name , true is my love , Sweet Susan , unto thee : True is my name , true is my love , And evermore shall be . My love is honest , just and good , Kill me not with disdain ; Rather do me the courtesy , To love for love again . When she had [ r ] ead and understood His mind and his intent , She then began to like and love , And grant his heart's content . John , I am thine , if thou art mine , For ever and for aye . It was to try thy constancy , That I did say thee nay . But here's my hand , hear and love , I'll ne'er thee more deny , My love is constant , firm , and true , And shall be 'till I die . Then they embrac'd each other's love And join'd in heart and voice , That she of him , and he of her , Had made so sweet a choice . But fortune that does often frown , Where she before did smile , The man's delight , the maiden's joy Full soon she did beguile . When she was settled in her love , Then he would change her mind . And for to try her constancy , Would be to her unkind . And thus resolved in his mind , He'd go to her no more : But went and woo'd another maid , Which griev'd her heart full soar . Quoth he , she proved unto me , Hard hearted and unkind : But now her true love I have wone I'll bear the selfsame mind . When she perceiv'd his love to her Not as it was wont to be , She did lament , sighs , weep , and grieve And these words said she : Falsehearted wretch , adieu , quoth she Disloyal and unkind . And if I die for love of thee , Thou shalt not know my mind . Woe to the time I did believe That flattering tongue of thine ; Would to God I ne'er had seen The tears of those false eyes . Hard hap I had to set my love On one that mocks me , Sure all the country did not yield A man so false as he . Thus was she brought to mean estate All comfort from her fled . She did desire to speak with him , Before that she was dead . Her friends did seek to cheer her up , And to make glad her mind : But she was kill'd for loving him , Who was to her unkind . Falsehearted man , may never maid Love thee as I have done . But may my death remember'd be To time that is to come : But may all maids a warning take , By this my mournful death . And now , Oh Lord ! receive my soul , To thee I give my breath : Thus died the pattern of true love , Thus died a virtuous maid . Thus died a good and harmless lass , As ever love betray'd ; Six maids in white , as custom is , Did bear her to her grave : Her parents grieve , lament and mourn No child at all they have . When as her lover understood For love that she was dead ; He rag'd , and ready was to tear The hair from off his head . But when he came unto the place Where his true lover lay , He straightway run unto the gave , And there these words did say ; Susan , quoth he , I'll kiss thy grave , Upon my bent knee ; Whereby I'll show to all the world , How much I did love thee . And as he lay upon the ground , He herd the voice to say , John True , if ever thou lov'st me , Make haste and come away . Then started he up from the grave , And stood like one struck dumb ; And when he had regain'd his speech He said , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his wits , He rag'd in furious sort ; That all the neighbours round about Were griev'd at the report ; And thus in sorrow and grief of heart He lay a whole fortnight ; And when he had confess'd his fault , He yielded up his spirit . According to his heart's desire , And as he did request , They dug his grave and laid him down By her whom he lov'd best . You young men all that have true love Be true unto your friend , And if you love , be sure you love , Be true unto the end : And thus I end my story true , So full of grief and woe ; May never any such again To wrong any other so . 