The LADY's Garland . A Virtuous young lady , ingenious and fair , A nobleman's daughter whose name I forbear To mention . But now I will speak in brief , The sum of her trouble , her sorrow and grief . And how she was suddenly struck with a dart . Which pass'd thro' her breast into her innocent heart So that it oblig'd her to make grievous moan , When set in her closet or chamber alone . The man whom she fancy'd nothing did know , How his youthful lady admir'd him so ; Which made her grief the stronger we find , Because she could not discover her mind . For being one night at a dancing or ball , She saw this young gentlemen proper and tall : Whose gallant deportment so pleased her eye , That she thought none did his person out vie . The more she endeavour'd her love to withdraw , The more she was wounded , perfection she saw In him , as she danc'd with the ladies that night , Her soul to his breast took a passionate flight . Now when they had ended this comical mirth , She privately ask'd concerning his birth : It was told her and Oxfordshire gentleman's son , Who many a brave noble actium had done . This added a second new flame to her love , She earnestly begg'd of the powers above , To find out a way it might be reveal'd , For , said she , I die if its longer conceal'd . By excellent fortune she had her request , For this noble gallant above all the rest , Did wait on her home , where to tell in brief , From sighs he discover'd the cause of her grief . He found by her sighs and languishing eyes , That he was the man she did valve and prize : Wherefore he did promise to come the next day , That he to her beauty a visit might pay . According to promise next morning he came , For true love had kindled and amorous flame Of earnest desire , he courted her still ; And soon he obtained the lady's good will . Now his whole study was how to convey This amorous charming young lady away , To the joy finishs that so sudden begun , Who gains a fair lady great hazards must run . PART II THEY walk'd in the garden , under the trees , She showed him him how he might come with ease ; Says she , I can meet you when all are at rest , And with thee I'll go , as I hope to be blessed . No one but my waiting maid of it shall know , I love her and therefore she with me shall go . With many soft kisses these lovers proceed , In this great adventure this night to proceed . The long-wish'd for hour at last did arrive , The lady and maid and both did contrive To pack up her garments so rich and so gay , And so with her lover she posted away They up to the city of London did ride , Where all things convenient they soon did provide , For Wedding this lady of Fame and renown , Which done they tarry'd three weeks in the town . To solace themselves in raptures of bliss . The mean time her honour'd parents did miss Her , and sent man and horse both far and near , But they of their daughter no tidings could hear . Her parents , friends , and relations , likewise . Believ'd she was taken by sudden surprise , To wed her and bed her at some idle rate , Thereby to inherit her father's estate . Some say this must be with her consent , Because that with her her chambermaid went . With that said her father in passion and wrath , If with her consent I will punish them both . The family was in distraction we find , Her father and mother disturbed in mind ; Her father and mother did bitterly mourn . And wish'd for this beautiful lady's return . PART III . WHEN in this city some time they had stay'd , The lady unto her husband thus said , We'll try if my father will be reconcil'd , Perhaps they may pardon their innocent child . He gave his consent , and posted away , And came to her father and mother , when they Were sitting together , with friends in the hall , For pardon then both on their knees did fallen . The father did storm with and angery brow , I'll grant you no pardon , but here I do vow . Him I'll send him to prison , and you I'll confine , I'll teach him to marry a daughter of mine . Dear honour'd Father , the lady reply'd , My husband you have but small reason to chide : What faults are committed impute them to me , And let my dear innocent husband foe free . Are you forsooth , madam able to bear The weight of my anger , well , well , I declare You shall have one share , and he have the rest , No manner of pity I'll show I protest . Her lily white hands she with sorrow did wring , Still crying , You powers , why did you bring My innocent husband to ruin and shame , When none in the world but me was to blame . It is but a folly your fate to bewail , I'll send him this minute strong guarded to goal ; And you to your chamber , where both shall remain , And never more see one another again . Why are you resolv'd to part man and wife ? Alas , I as freely can part with my life ; As to part with my jewel , my love let me have . Altho' in a dungeon , a prison , or cave . She could not oblige them the least to relent , For strait to prison her dear love was sent , And she to her chamber was hurr'd likewise , To put forth her sorrow with watery eyes . Her parents provided a servant to wait Upon her , with diet both early and late ; One that was ill natur'd , no other was she , Poor creature admitted or suffer'd to see . To think of her jewel no rest could she take , But still in her chamber she went for his sake ; For to think of his and her sorrowful doom , At length and infant did spring in her womb . With melting expressions of her great grief , She sent to her father for speedy relief , Declaring that she was with-child by her dear ; But still he continued sharp and severe . At length when the time of her travel drew nigh , Her parents afforded her a slender supply Of nourishwent just in the time of distress . But there was no freedom for her ne'ertheless . Then being deliver'd of a young son , Her parents sent for it their will must be done : She kissed it at parting a thousand times o'er , And said with a sighs , I shall see thee no more . PART IV. THEY sent for a nurse , who the child did receive And made the charming creature believe , By tokens and signs it was murder'd indeed , To show they would have no more of the breed They brought back the mantle spotted with blood And put it before her ; her eyes like a flood Of tears like a fountain did run down amain : She said , My innocent infant was slave . The father in prison , the infant destroy'd , The mother in sorrow , who never enjoy'd One minute of comfort since home I return'd , [ S ] such are my parents so highly [ counterfeit ] ncern'd . What can be the reason they hold him in scorn He's handsome , discreet , and a gentleman born . Strait , proper , and comely in every limb , My heart in my body lies bleeding of him . He nothing enjoys for my spke but chains , For still in a prison of grief he remains ; Because he wed one of a noble degree , I weep when I think what he suffers for me . While she in her chamber did weep and lament , Her father one morning a messenger setn , To bring her before him without more delay , Clothed in apparel most costly and gay : Now when to her honoured father she came , Said he , I have found out a person of fame , With whom you shall wed , he'll make you his bride . O do not afflict me , dear father , she cry'd , I'm marry'd already , the more is my grief , Debar'd of all pleasure , deny'd of relief ; Imprisoned and slighted with scorn and disdain , No lady had ever such cause to complain . You said , I dishonour'd your family By wedding a man that was meaner than me ; But it would be worse if I should contrive To marry another while he is alive . But was you to bring me the greatest on earth , The son of a powerful monarch by birth , I'd mind him no more than a mere slave ; The dearest of husbands in prison I have . Dearest daughter , this day we'll admit you to dine With all our relations . A banquet of wine I now have provided to pleasure my friends , That's but a small kindness to make me amends . For all the sorrow that I have gone through , Alas , my poor innocent infant they slew ; My husband's imprison'd , my griefs manifold , How can I be merry when he is in hold ? These words of his daughter made him to relent Therefore for her husband he presently sent , And clothed him then in sumptuous array , And every fault was forgiven that day . Her parents and friends were reconcil'd , The nurse too was there , and de The LADY's Garland . A Virtuous young lady , ingenious and fair , A nobleman's daughter whose name I forbear To mention . But now I will speak in brief , The sum of her trouble , her sorrow and grief . And how she was suddenly struck with a dart . Which pass'd thro' her breast into her innocent heart So that it oblig'd her to make grievous moan , When set in her closet or chamber alone . The man whom she fancy'd nothing did know , How his youthful lady admir'd him so ; Which made her grief the stronger we find , Because she could not discover her mind . For being one night at a dancing or ball , She saw this young gentlemen proper and tall : Whose gallant deportment so pleased her eye , That she thought none did his person out vie . The more she endeavour'd her love to withdraw , The more she was wounded , perfection she saw In him , as she danc'd with the ladies that night , Her soul to his breast took a passionate flight . Now when they had ended this comical mirth , She privately ask'd concerning his birth : It was told her and Oxfordshire gentleman's son , Who many a brave noble actium had done . This added a second new flame to her love , She earnestly begg'd of the powers above , To find out a way it might be reveal'd , For , said she , I die if its longer conceal'd . By excellent fortune she had her request , For this noble gallant above all the rest , Did wait on her home , where to tell in brief , From sighs he discover'd the cause of her grief . He found by her sighs and languishing eyes , That he was the man she did valve and prize : Wherefore he did promise to come the next day , That he to her beauty a visit might pay . According to promise next morning he came , For true love had kindled and amorous flame Of earnest desire , he courted her still ; And soon he obtained the lady's good will . Now his whole study was how to convey This amorous charming young lady away , To the joy finishs that so sudden begun , Who gains a fair lady great hazards must run . PART II THEY walk'd in the garden , under the trees , She showed him him how he might come with ease ; Says she , I can meet you when all are at rest , And with thee I'll go , as I hope to be blessed . No one but my waiting maid of it shall know , I love her and therefore she with me shall go . With many soft kisses these lovers proceed , In this great adventure this night to proceed . The long-wish'd for hour at last did arrive , The lady and maid and both did contrive To pack up her garments so rich and so gay , And so with her lover she posted away They up to the city of London did ride , Where all things convenient they soon did provide , For Wedding this lady of Fame and renown , Which done they tarry'd three weeks in the town . To solace themselves in raptures of bliss . The mean time her honour'd parents did miss Her , and sent man and horse both far and near , But they of their daughter no tidings could hear . Her parents , friends , and relations , likewise . Believ'd she was taken by sudden surprise , To wed her and bed her at some idle rate , Thereby to inherit her father's estate . Some say this must be with her consent , Because that with her her chambermaid went . With that said her father in passion and wrath , If with her consent I will punish them both . The family was in distraction we find , Her father and mother disturbed in mind ; Her father and mother did bitterly mourn . And wish'd for this beautiful lady's return . PART III . WHEN in this city some time they had stay'd , The lady unto her husband thus said , We'll try if my father will be reconcil'd , Perhaps they may pardon their innocent child . He gave his consent , and posted away , And came to her father and mother , when they Were sitting together , with friends in the hall , For pardon then both on their knees did fallen . The father did storm with and angery brow , I'll grant you no pardon , but here I do vow . Him I'll send him to prison , and you I'll confine , I'll teach him to marry a daughter of mine . Dear honour'd Father , the lady reply'd , My husband you have but small reason to chide : What faults are committed impute them to me , And let my dear innocent husband foe free . Are you forsooth , madam able to bear The weight of my anger , well , well , I declare You shall have one share , and he have the rest , No manner of pity I'll show I protest . Her lily white hands she with sorrow did wring , Still crying , You powers , why did you bring My innocent husband to ruin and shame , When none in the world but me was to blame . It is but a folly your fate to bewail , I'll send him this minute strong guarded to goal ; And you to your chamber , where both shall remain , And never more see one another again . Why are you resolv'd to part man and wife ? Alas , I as freely can part with my life ; As to part with my jewel , my love let me have . Altho' in a dungeon , a prison , or cave . She could not oblige them the least to relent , For strait to prison her dear love was sent , And she to her chamber was hurr'd likewise , To put forth her sorrow with watery eyes . Her parents provided a servant to wait Upon her , with diet both early and late ; One that was ill natur'd , no other was she , Poor creature admitted or suffer'd to see . To think of her jewel no rest could she take , But still in her chamber she went for his sake ; For to think of his and her sorrowful doom , At length and infant did spring in her womb . With melting expressions of her great grief , She sent to her father for speedy relief , Declaring that she was with-child by her dear ; But still he continued sharp and severe . At length when the time of her travel drew nigh , Her parents afforded her a slender supply Of nourishwent just in the time of distress . But there was no freedom for her ne'ertheless . Then being deliver'd of a young son , Her parents sent for it their will must be done : She kissed it at parting a thousand times o'er , And said with a sighs , I shall see thee no more . PART IV. THEY sent for a nurse , who the child did receive And made the charming creature believe , By tokens and signs it was murder'd indeed , To show they would have no more of the breed They brought back the mantle spotted with blood And put it before her ; her eyes like a flood Of tears like a fountain did run down amain : She said , My innocent infant was slave . The father in prison , the infant destroy'd , The mother in sorrow , who never enjoy'd One minute of comfort since home I return'd , [ S ] such are my parents so highly [ counterfeit ] ncern'd . What can be the reason they hold him in scorn He's handsome , discreet , and a gentleman born . Strait , proper , and comely in every limb , My heart in my body lies bleeding of him . He nothing enjoys for my spke but chains , For still in a prison of grief he remains ; Because he wed one of a noble degree , I weep when I think what he suffers for me . While she in her chamber did weep and lament , Her father one morning a messenger setn , To bring her before him without more delay , Clothed in apparel most costly and gay : Now when to her honoured father she came , Said he , I have found out a person of fame , With whom you shall wed , he'll make you his bride . O do not afflict me , dear father , she cry'd , I'm marry'd already , the more is my grief , Debar'd of all pleasure , deny'd of relief ; Imprisoned and slighted with scorn and disdain , No lady had ever such cause to complain . You said , I dishonour'd your family By wedding a man that was meaner than me ; But it would be worse if I should contrive To marry another while he is alive . But was you to bring me the greatest on earth , The son of a powerful monarch by birth , I'd mind him no more than a mere slave ; The dearest of husbands in prison I have . Dearest daughter , this day we'll admit you to dine With all our relations . A banquet of wine I now have provided to pleasure my friends , That's but a small kindness to make me amends . For all the sorrow that I have gone through , Alas , my poor innocent infant they slew ; My husband's imprison'd , my griefs manifold , How can I be merry when he is in hold ? These words of his daughter made him to relent Therefore for her husband he presently sent , And clothed him then in sumptuous array , And every fault was forgiven that day . Her parents and friends were reconcil'd , The nurse too was there , and deliver'd the child Unto the young lady , whose comforts were more Than had been for the space of twelve months before Her husband appear'd with so noble a grace , That every lady that was in the plaoe Did take much delight to speak in her praise , And wish'd them to see many prosperous days . A squire spoke up with and audible voice , And said to her father , Ne'er grieve at the choice , For he is descended , as we do understand , By his mother's side , from a peer of the land . Nay , much more he said to his honour and fame , His friends were pleased , thro' joy they pro [ c ] laim To tell forth their glory , which still does abound , Throughout all the neighbouring villages round . Printed in Aldermary Churn-Yard , Bow Lane . liver'd the child Unto the young lady , whose comforts were more Than had been for the space of twelve months before Her husband appear'd with so noble a grace , That every lady that was in the plaoe Did take much delight to speak in her praise , And wish'd them to see many prosperous days . A squire spoke up with and audible voice , And said to her father , Ne'er grieve at the choice , For he is descended , as we do understand , By his mother's side , from a peer of the land . Nay , much more he said to his honour and fame , His friends were pleased , thro' joy they pro [ c ] laim To tell forth their glory , which still does abound , Throughout all the neighbouring villages round . Printed in Aldermary Churn-Yard , Bow Lane . 