THE SUFFOLK MIRACLE ; BEING The Relation of a young Man , who after his Death appeared to his Sweetheart , and carried her behind him Forty Miles in two Hour's Time , and was never seen after , but in the Grave . Tune of , My Bleeding Heart etc A Wonder strange as e'er was known , Then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell , A Farmer Rich , and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright , On whom he plac'd his chief Delight , Her Beauty was beyond compare , She was both virtuous and fair . A young Man there was living by , Who was so charmed with her Eye , That he could never be at Rest , He was with Love so much possessed . He made Address to her , and she Did grant him Love immediately , Which when her Father came to hear , He parted her , and her poor Dear . Forty Miles distant was she sent , Unto her Uncle's , with Intent , That she should there so long remain , Till she had chang'd her Mind again . Hereat this young Man sadly griev'd , But knew not how to be reliev'd ; He sigh'd and sobb'd continually , That his true Love he could not see . She by no Means could to him send , Who was her Heart's espoused Friend ; He sigh'd , she griev'd , but all in Vain , For she confin'd must still remain . He mourn'd so much that Doctor's Art Could give no Ease unto his Heart , Who was so strangely terrify'd , That in short time for Love he dy'd . She that from him was sent away , Knew nothing of his dying Day , But constant still she did remain , To Love the Dead was then in vain . After he had in Grave been laid , A Month or more , unto this Maid , He came about Middle of the Night , Who joy'd to see her Heart's Delight . Her Father's Horse which well she knew , Her Mother's Hood and Safeguard too , He brought with him to testify , Her Parents Order he came by . Which when her Uncle understood , He hop'd it might be for her Good , And gave Consent to her straight way , That with him she should come away . When she was god her Love behind , They pass'd as swift as any Wind , That in two Hours , or little more , He brought her to her Father's Door . But as they did this great Haste make , He did complain his Head did ache ; Her Handkerchief she then took out , And ty'd the same his Head about . And unto him she thus did say , Thou art as cold as any Clay , When we come home a Fire we'll have , But little dream't he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's Door , And after she ne'er see him more ; I'll set the Horse up then , he said , And there he left this harmless Maid . She knock'd , and straight amain , he cry'd , Who's there ? 'tis I , she then reply'd : Who wonder'd much her Voice to hear , And was possessed with Dread and Fear . Her Father she did tell , and then , He star'd like and affrighted Man. Down Stairs he ran , and when he see her , Cry'd out , My Child , how cam'st thou here ? prey Sir , did you not send for me , By such a Messenger , said she , Which made his Hair stand on his Head , As knowing well that he was dead . Where is he then , to her he said , He's in the Stable , quoth the Maid , Go in said he , and go to Bed , I'll see the Horse well littered . He star'd about , and there could he No Shape of any Mankind see , But found his Horse all in a Sweat , Which put him in a deadly fright . His Daughter he said nothing to , Nor no one else , though well they knew , That he was dead a Month before , For fear of grieving her full soar . Her Father to his Father went , ( Who was decay'd ) with this Intent , To tell him what his Daughter said , So both came back unto this Maid . They asked her , and she still did say , 'Twas him that then brought her away ; Which when they herd they were amaz'd , And on each other strangely gaz'd . A Handkerchief , she said , she ty'd About his Head , and that they try'd ; The Saxton they did speak unto , That he the Grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold His Body turning into Mould ; And tho' he had a Month been dead , This Handkerchief was about his Head. This thing unto her then they told , And the whole Truth they did unfold , She was thereat so terrified And griev'd , she quickly after died . Part not true Love , you rich Men then , But if they be right honest Men , Your Daughter's Love give them their way , For Force oft breeds their Life's decay . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold JOHN WHITE . THE SUFFOLK MIRACLE ; BEING The Relation of a young Man , who after his Death appeared to his Sweetheart , and carried her behind him Forty Miles in two Hour's Time , and was never seen after , but in the Grave . Tune of , My Bleeding Heart etc A Wonder strange as e'er was known , Then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell , A Farmer Rich , and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright , On whom he plac'd his chief Delight , Her Beauty was beyond compare , She was both virtuous and fair . A young Man there was living by , Who was so charmed with her Eye , That he could never be at Rest , He was with Love so much possessed . He made Address to her , and she Did grant him Love immediately , Which when her Father came to hear , He parted her , and her poor Dear . Forty Miles distant was she sent , Unto her Uncle's , with Intent , That she should there so long remain , Till she had chang'd her Mind again . Hereat this young Man sadly griev'd , But knew not how to be reliev'd ; He sigh'd and sobb'd continually , That his true Love he could not see . She by no Means could to him send , Who was her Heart's espoused Friend ; He sigh'd , she griev'd , but all in Vain , For she confin'd must still remain . He mourn'd so much that Doctor's Art Could give no Ease unto his Heart , Who was so strangely terrify'd , That in short time for Love he dy'd . She that from him was sent away , Knew nothing of his dying Day , But constant still she did remain , To Love the Dead was then in vain . After he had in Grave been laid , A Month or more , unto this Maid , He came about Middle of the Night , Who joy'd to see her Heart's Delight . Her Father's Horse which well she knew , Her Mother's Hood and Safeguard too , He brought with him to testify , Her Parents Order he came by . Which when her Uncle understood , He hop'd it might be for her Good , And gave Consent to her straight way , That with him she should come away . When she was god her Love behind , They pass'd as swift as any Wind , That in two Hours , or little more , He brought her to her Father's Door . But as they did this great Haste make , He did complain his Head did ache ; Her Handkerchief she then took out , And ty'd the same his Head about . And unto him she thus did say , Thou art as cold as any Clay , When we come home a Fire we'll have , But little dream't he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's Door , And after she ne'er see him more ; I'll set the Horse up then , he said , And there he left this harmless Maid . She knock'd , and straight amain , he cry'd , Who's there ? 'tis I , she then reply'd : Who wonder'd much her Voice to hear , And was possessed with Dread and Fear . Her Father she did tell , and then , He star'd like and affrighted Man. Down Stairs he ran , and when he see her , Cry'd out , My Child , how cam'st thou here ? prey Sir , did you not send for me , By such a Messenger , said she , Which made his Hair stand on his Head , As knowing well that he was dead . Where is he then , to her he said , He's in the Stable , quoth the Maid , Go in said he , and go to Bed , I'll see the Horse well littered . He star'd about , and there could he No Shape of any Mankind see , But found his Horse all in a Sweat , Which put him in a deadly fright . His Daughter he said nothing to , Nor no one else , though well they knew , That he was dead a Month before , For fear of grieving her full soar . Her Father to his Father went , ( Who was decay'd ) with this Intent , To tell him what his Daughter said , So both came back unto this Maid . They asked her , and she still did say , 'Twas him that then brought her away ; Which when they herd they were amaz'd , And on each other strangely gaz'd . A Handkerchief , she said , she ty'd About his Head , and that they try'd ; The Saxton they did speak unto , That he the Grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold His Body turning into Mould ; And tho' he had a Month been dead , This Handkerchief was about his Head. This thing unto her then they told , And the whole Truth they did unfold , She was thereat so terrified And griev'd , she quickly after died . Part not true Love , you rich Men then , But if they be right honest Men , Your Daughter's Love give them their way , For Force oft breeds their Life's decay . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold JOHN WHITE . 