THE LIFE and DEATH OF THE DUKE of BERWICK . ASSIST me , you Muses , I pray lend your Aid , To undergo a Task , for I am afraid , Without that you help me , I shall fallen too low , In speaking of him whom some Thousands do know : The brave Duke of Berwick , 'tis him I do mean ; And of his Exploits some of them I will name : But first let me tell you , e'er farther I run , He was late King James's own natural Son. In England born , which caus'd him to be , The bravest stout Soldier that e'er you did see ; The best of all Foes that e'er did advance ; Witness the Battle that was fought at Almanze ; Where he to his Soldiers most bravely did say , Brave Boys , if it happen that we get the Day ; Be courageous and bold , and commit no Slaughter ; But pray give my English Countrymen Quarter . What braver than this could and Enemy say ? O Curse on grim Death that snatch'd him away : Then curs'd be the Gunner that fired the Shot , And curs'd be the Bullet that fell to his Lo That soon deprived brave Berwick of Life : Robb'd Children of Father , parted Man and Wife : A sad Separation ; who can now express The Grief of the Widow and the Fatherless . But stop not Assistance , but farther let's go : For more of brave Berwick's Valour I'd know ; Fame now reporteth and says very plain , He at Syracusa saw some Thousands slave : Then , why did not grim Death take him quite away ? His Corpse would long since have moulder'd to Clay : No , no , his Summons he deny'd to serve , Until noble Berwick more Honours deserv'd . Then from Syracusa he strait to Blackwood , There he waded up to his Knees in Blood : But still to his Soldiers aloud he would cry , Fight on my brave Boys let us every Man die . For my own Countrymen are courageous and bold ; And will by no Means at all be controul'd ; But if we get the better , and they should surrender , Pray be kind unto them , nay loving and tender . Then Malplaquet next was where he did run , But yet he escaped the firing of Guns : Altho' from the same he ne'er did retire , But still he was riding thro' all Smoke and Fire . There's nothing could daunt him , but Oh cruel Fate Hath put and End to his longer Date : At Phillipsburgh , France there god her Loss , There he was shot dead , when mounting his Horse . In many other Places great Feats he hath done , But his noble Actions are now with him gone . All those that in the Service of Queen Anne have been , Unto cruel Death they do bear a Spleen ; For taking brave Berwick their merciful Foe : Tho' some were his Pris'ners , they never Want did know . For to support them no Cost he would spare ; And still would call them his Countrymen dear . Alas ! noble Berwick , could you not return , When the King , your Master , did send for you home ? He knowing your old Age and Infirmity , In the Field of Honour you was resolv'd to die : Call me not home , good Master , now I pray , For in the Field I am resolv'd to stay , But said , Good Master , since I have begun , Let me proceed until my Glass is run . Altho' Sixty-six , see what Courage was there ? This good ancient Man yet a stout Heart did bear : So all pity'd him that Day when he did die , Because he could not stay to gain Victory : Much more might be said , but I must have done : He dy'd both a Prince , a Peer , and a King's Son , His Soul into Heaven I hope it is good , The which puts and End to my tragical Song . Newcastle : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . THE LIFE and DEATH OF THE DUKE of BERWICK . ASSIST me , you Muses , I pray lend your Aid , To undergo a Task , for I am afraid , Without that you help me , I shall fallen too low , In speaking of him whom some Thousands do know : The brave Duke of Berwick , 'tis him I do mean ; And of his Exploits some of them I will name : But first let me tell you , e'er farther I run , He was late King James's own natural Son. In England born , which caus'd him to be , The bravest stout Soldier that e'er you did see ; The best of all Foes that e'er did advance ; Witness the Battle that was fought at Almanze ; Where he to his Soldiers most bravely did say , Brave Boys , if it happen that we get the Day ; Be courageous and bold , and commit no Slaughter ; But pray give my English Countrymen Quarter . What braver than this could and Enemy say ? O Curse on grim Death that snatch'd him away : Then curs'd be the Gunner that fired the Shot , And curs'd be the Bullet that fell to his Lo That soon deprived brave Berwick of Life : Robb'd Children of Father , parted Man and Wife : A sad Separation ; who can now express The Grief of the Widow and the Fatherless . But stop not Assistance , but farther let's go : For more of brave Berwick's Valour I'd know ; Fame now reporteth and says very plain , He at Syracusa saw some Thousands slave : Then , why did not grim Death take him quite away ? His Corpse would long since have moulder'd to Clay : No , no , his Summons he deny'd to serve , Until noble Berwick more Honours deserv'd . Then from Syracusa he strait to Blackwood , There he waded up to his Knees in Blood : But still to his Soldiers aloud he would cry , Fight on my brave Boys let us every Man die . For my own Countrymen are courageous and bold ; And will by no Means at all be controul'd ; But if we get the better , and they should surrender , Pray be kind unto them , nay loving and tender . Then Malplaquet next was where he did run , But yet he escaped the firing of Guns : Altho' from the same he ne'er did retire , But still he was riding thro' all Smoke and Fire . There's nothing could daunt him , but Oh cruel Fate Hath put and End to his longer Date : At Phillipsburgh , France there god her Loss , There he was shot dead , when mounting his Horse . In many other Places great Feats he hath done , But his noble Actions are now with him gone . All those that in the Service of Queen Anne have been , Unto cruel Death they do bear a Spleen ; For taking brave Berwick their merciful Foe : Tho' some were his Pris'ners , they never Want did know . For to support them no Cost he would spare ; And still would call them his Countrymen dear . Alas ! noble Berwick , could you not return , When the King , your Master , did send for you home ? He knowing your old Age and Infirmity , In the Field of Honour you was resolv'd to die : Call me not home , good Master , now I pray , For in the Field I am resolv'd to stay , But said , Good Master , since I have begun , Let me proceed until my Glass is run . Altho' Sixty-six , see what Courage was there ? This good ancient Man yet a stout Heart did bear : So all pity'd him that Day when he did die , Because he could not stay to gain Victory : Much more might be said , but I must have done : He dy'd both a Prince , a Peer , and a King's Son , His Soul into Heaven I hope it is good , The which puts and End to my tragical Song . Newcastle : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . 