THE FORLORN LOVER : DECLARING , How a LASS gave her LOVER three Slips for a Taster , And married another a Week before EASTER . To a pleasant new Tune A Week before Easter , The Days long and clear , So bright was the Sun , And so cool was the Air ; I went to the Forest Some Flow'rs to find there , And the Forest would yield me no Posies . The Wheat and the Rye , That do grow so green , The Hedges and Trees In their several Coats : The small Birds do sing In their changeable Notes ; But there grows no Strawberries or Roses , I went to Maedow Some Time there to spend , And to come back again , Did fully intend : But as I came back I met with a Friend , And 'twas Love is the Cause of my Mourning . I lov'd a fair Lady This many a Day , And now to requite me , She's married away : Here she now hath left me In Sorrow to stay , But now I begin to consider . I loved her dear , And I loved her well , I hated those People , That of her spoke Ill , Many a one told me What she once did say , Yet I would then hardly believe them . But when I did hear My Love was in the Church , I went out from my Seat , And sat in the Porch : I found I should surely Be left in the Lurch . I thought that my Heart would been broken . But when I did see My Love to the Church go , With all her Bride-maidens , They made such a Show : I laugh'd in Conceit , Though my Heart was full low , To see how much she was regarded , But when I saw my Love , Within the Church stand , Gold Ring on her Finger , Well seal'd with a Hand ; He had so endu'd her With both House and Land , That nothing but Death could them sever . But when the Bride-maidens Had dress'd her for Bed , I stepp'd in among them And kissed the Bride And wished to have been Laid close by her Side , And by that Means I'd god the Favour . When she was laid in Bed , And dress'd all in White , My Eyes gush'd with Water That drowned my Sighs I put off my Hat . And bid them all good Night , And adieu my fair Sweetheart for ever . Oh! dig me a Grave , That's wide , large and deep , With a Turf at my Head , And another at my Feet ; And there will I lie , And take a long Sleep , And bid the World farewell for ever . She plighted her Faith To be my fair Bride , And now at last she hath Me falsely depriv'd : I'll leave off my Wrath : Good Fortune , be my Guide , And deliver me from such another . I pity her Case Much more than my own That she should embrace , And join Hands in one , While I am her true Love , And daily does groan , My great Sorrows I cannot smother . Though Marriage hath bound her , She is much to blame , And though he hath found her , Her Husband I am Hereafter 'twill wound her , That she does me shame When Consceince shall be her Accuser . Two Husband she hath By this wild Miscarriage , The one by a Contract , The other by Marriage : She does her whole Family Grossly disparage ; But I will not plot to misusy her . Beware all young Men Of Arts , or of Trades , Choose warily when You meet with such Maids : You'd better live single , And well in the Shades , Than follow such and Abuser . Newcastle : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . THE FORLORN LOVER : DECLARING , How a LASS gave her LOVER three Slips for a Taster , And married another a Week before EASTER . To a pleasant new Tune A Week before Easter , The Days long and clear , So bright was the Sun , And so cool was the Air ; I went to the Forest Some Flow'rs to find there , And the Forest would yield me no Posies . The Wheat and the Rye , That do grow so green , The Hedges and Trees In their several Coats : The small Birds do sing In their changeable Notes ; But there grows no Strawberries or Roses , I went to Maedow Some Time there to spend , And to come back again , Did fully intend : But as I came back I met with a Friend , And 'twas Love is the Cause of my Mourning . I lov'd a fair Lady This many a Day , And now to requite me , She's married away : Here she now hath left me In Sorrow to stay , But now I begin to consider . I loved her dear , And I loved her well , I hated those People , That of her spoke Ill , Many a one told me What she once did say , Yet I would then hardly believe them . But when I did hear My Love was in the Church , I went out from my Seat , And sat in the Porch : I found I should surely Be left in the Lurch . I thought that my Heart would been broken . But when I did see My Love to the Church go , With all her Bride-maidens , They made such a Show : I laugh'd in Conceit , Though my Heart was full low , To see how much she was regarded , But when I saw my Love , Within the Church stand , Gold Ring on her Finger , Well seal'd with a Hand ; He had so endu'd her With both House and Land , That nothing but Death could them sever . But when the Bride-maidens Had dress'd her for Bed , I stepp'd in among them And kissed the Bride And wished to have been Laid close by her Side , And by that Means I'd god the Favour . When she was laid in Bed , And dress'd all in White , My Eyes gush'd with Water That drowned my Sighs I put off my Hat . And bid them all good Night , And adieu my fair Sweetheart for ever . Oh! dig me a Grave , That's wide , large and deep , With a Turf at my Head , And another at my Feet ; And there will I lie , And take a long Sleep , And bid the World farewell for ever . She plighted her Faith To be my fair Bride , And now at last she hath Me falsely depriv'd : I'll leave off my Wrath : Good Fortune , be my Guide , And deliver me from such another . I pity her Case Much more than my own That she should embrace , And join Hands in one , While I am her true Love , And daily does groan , My great Sorrows I cannot smother . Though Marriage hath bound her , She is much to blame , And though he hath found her , Her Husband I am Hereafter 'twill wound her , That she does me shame When Consceince shall be her Accuser . Two Husband she hath By this wild Miscarriage , The one by a Contract , The other by Marriage : She does her whole Family Grossly disparage ; But I will not plot to misusy her . Beware all young Men Of Arts , or of Trades , Choose warily when You meet with such Maids : You'd better live single , And well in the Shades , Than follow such and Abuser . Newcastle : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . 