Sweet WILLIAM of Plymouth . A Seaman of Dover , Sweet William by name , A wooing to beautiful Susan he came : At length he obtained her love and goodwill , And likewise her father admir'd him still . Her mother was also as much satisfy'd , The day was appointed the knot should be ty'd . Their friends were invited , but see by the way , Sweet Susan she sicken'd , and languishing lay . They us'd their endeavours to raise her again , By famous Physicians , but their skill was vain . A week she continued ; --- sweet William did grieve , Because of his love he must take his leave ; As being commanded to sail the next wind . Then leaving his sweetest creature behind , He said , I must marry when I come again , If thou by good fortune alive dost remain . As long as I live I'll prove true to my love , And Susan I hope you as constant will prove . Never doubt in the least , sweet William , said she , There's none upon earth shall enjoy me but thee . A tribute of tears at their parting they paid , Sweet William , the mother , and innocent maid . Nay likewise the father is griev'd to the heart , To think she so soon from her dearest must part . Away to the ocean sweet William is gone , Where we will leave him , and show you anon How base and deceitful her parents did prove , Advising the maid to be false to her love . PART II NOW when this damsel had languishing lain Near five or six months she recover'd again . Her beauty grew brighter than ever before , So that there were many her charms did adore . Each one did esteem her that came in her view ; Her fame to the neighbouring villages flew , To be the most beautiful creature on earth , Altho' but a fisherman's daughter by birth . So that she was courted by none of the worse A wealthy young farmer came to her the first , And call'd her the jewel and joy of his life . Said she , Begone , I'm another man's wife , By solemn vows in the presence of God : And if I am false let his heavenly rod Of sharpest correction my punishment be ; Therefore begone from my presence , said she . Then came a squire who call'd her his dear , Who said , he would settle two hundred a year Upon her , if she would be his sweet bride , I must not , I cannot , you must be deny'd . Then unto her father and mother he went , Who soon discover'd his noble intent . They being ambitious of honour and fame , Did strive to persuade her , but all in vain . Dear parents , said she , observe what I say , In things which be lawful I mean to obey . But when you'd have me be perjur'd for gold , I dare not submit , to the truth I will hold . They found it signify'd nothing to strive , So long as she knew her true love was alive , To induce her to mind any one but he , And then the young squire and they did agree , To send this innocent young damsel away . Along with a lady to Holland , and they Would tell her love at his return , she was dead . That he with some other damsel might wed . Then would it be lawful to wed the squire , Who did her beautiful features admire . Thus it was contrived , to Holland she was sent , Poor creature she knew not their cunning intent . But since her parents would have it so , In point of obedience she yielded to go , Where we will leave her , to treat of her love , Who had been gone two years and above . PART III . IN William's long voyage they came to a place , Where they had been but a short space . Where fortune did favour him , so that he bought A bargain worth hundreds and thousands 'tis thought Then laden with riches he came on shore , Said he , My jewel whom I do adore . I will go and visit before I do rest , My heart has been lodg'd a long time in her breast . Now when to the house of her father he came , He called for Susan , sweet Susan by name . But strait her mother did make this reply , 'Tis long since my daughter did languish and die . His heart at these tidings was ready to break , Some minutes he had not the power to speak , At length with a flood of tears he reply'd , Adieu to the pleasures and charms of a bride . My sorrows are more than I'm able to bear , Is Susan departed , sweet Susan the fair , Then none in the world I do love , since she Is laid in the grave that was dearest to me . Their presence he quit with watery eyes , And went to his father and mother likewise , His own loving parents , and with them he left His wealth , 'cause he was of his love bereft . Resolved I am to travel again , Perhaps it will wear off my anguish and pain . Take care of my riches , 'tis valve unknown , And if I return not , then it is your own . But if I should live to see you once more , I make no doubt but the same you'll restore . Ay , that I will , soon , the father reply'd . So for this long voyage he then did provide . He goes on board , and away he did steer : The seas were calm , and the element clear At first . At length a storm did arise , Black clouds did cover and darken the skies . The seas did foam , and the winds did roar , At length being driven upon the Dutch shore , Their ship was shatter'd and so torn indeed . That they on they voyage could not proceed . Now while they laid by their ship to repair . William went to the Hague , and walk'd there . And as he was walking along in the street , With beautiful Susan he happen'd to meet . He started as soon as her face he beheld . With wonder and pleasure he was so fill'd , Oh! tell me , said he , you blessed powers above . Do not my eyes deceive me , or is it my love . They say , she's been buried twelve months almost . Sure this is my love , or her beautiful ghost . Then quick he went to her , and found it was she , And none in the world was so happy as he . My dearest sweet Susan why dost thou rome ? What destiny brought thee so far from home ? The truth she told him , with tears in her eyee , Concerning the farmer and squire likewise . They courted me long , but still I said nay , And therefore my relations sent me away To wait on a lady , with whom I am now , Because I would not be false to my vow . He presently told her of his affairs , His riches , his troubles , and his cares . And how he was going a voyage to make . But knew not whither , and all for her sake , But as we was sailing , the weather grew foul , The winds did blow , and billows did roll , Yet nevertheless on this turbulent sea , The winds were kind , and convey'd me to thee . I'll go to thy lady , and let her to know You shall serve no longer , but with me go , Unto fair Plymouth , where thou shalt be seen , As gay as herself or as fine as a queen . PART IV. HE made a dispatch and brought her away , The seas were calm , and the winds did obey , So that in short time to Plymouth they came , And now he was clearly for changing his name . He told his father and mother that there , By fortune's kind favour he lit on his dear . And now we will prepare for the wedding said he , Thy father and mother invited must be , Then unto her parents he hasted at last , And told the height of his sorrow was passed , For since you say Susan your daughter is dead , I have found a beauty with whom I will wed , And therefore I come to bring the news , I hope one favour you will not refuse . O! honour me then with your presence I pray , And come to the wedding , to-morrow's the day . They promis'd to come , well pleas'd to the heart To think so well they had acted their part . Now , now , said the mother , I have my desire , We'll fetch home our daughter to marry the 'squire . The very next morning sweet Susan was dressed , In sumptuous apparel , more gay than the rest . The richest things that the world could afford , Embroidered with gold he had from abroad . With diamonds and rubies her vesture did shine , Her features did look like and angel divine , Scarce ever was mortal so glorious and great , And likewise her modesty suited her state . Now they being all down to dinner set , This beautiful couple so happily met . This stately apparel had alter'd her so Her father and mother her face did not know . A health to the bride round the table did pass , The mother of Susan then taking a glass , Did doe as the rest , and spoke with a grace , Had my daughter been here she'd been in your place The bride at this saying , then modestly smil'd , To think the mother knew not her own child , Soon after the bride arose from her seat . And fell on her knees at her parents feet . I am your daughter whom you did send To Holland , but Heaven stood Sweet WILLIAM of Plymouth . A Seaman of Dover , Sweet William by name , A wooing to beautiful Susan he came : At length he obtained her love and goodwill , And likewise her father admir'd him still . Her mother was also as much satisfy'd , The day was appointed the knot should be ty'd . Their friends were invited , but see by the way , Sweet Susan she sicken'd , and languishing lay . They us'd their endeavours to raise her again , By famous Physicians , but their skill was vain . A week she continued ; --- sweet William did grieve , Because of his love he must take his leave ; As being commanded to sail the next wind . Then leaving his sweetest creature behind , He said , I must marry when I come again , If thou by good fortune alive dost remain . As long as I live I'll prove true to my love , And Susan I hope you as constant will prove . Never doubt in the least , sweet William , said she , There's none upon earth shall enjoy me but thee . A tribute of tears at their parting they paid , Sweet William , the mother , and innocent maid . Nay likewise the father is griev'd to the heart , To think she so soon from her dearest must part . Away to the ocean sweet William is gone , Where we will leave him , and show you anon How base and deceitful her parents did prove , Advising the maid to be false to her love . PART II NOW when this damsel had languishing lain Near five or six months she recover'd again . Her beauty grew brighter than ever before , So that there were many her charms did adore . Each one did esteem her that came in her view ; Her fame to the neighbouring villages flew , To be the most beautiful creature on earth , Altho' but a fisherman's daughter by birth . So that she was courted by none of the worse A wealthy young farmer came to her the first , And call'd her the jewel and joy of his life . Said she , Begone , I'm another man's wife , By solemn vows in the presence of God : And if I am false let his heavenly rod Of sharpest correction my punishment be ; Therefore begone from my presence , said she . Then came a squire who call'd her his dear , Who said , he would settle two hundred a year Upon her , if she would be his sweet bride , I must not , I cannot , you must be deny'd . Then unto her father and mother he went , Who soon discover'd his noble intent . They being ambitious of honour and fame , Did strive to persuade her , but all in vain . Dear parents , said she , observe what I say , In things which be lawful I mean to obey . But when you'd have me be perjur'd for gold , I dare not submit , to the truth I will hold . They found it signify'd nothing to strive , So long as she knew her true love was alive , To induce her to mind any one but he , And then the young squire and they did agree , To send this innocent young damsel away . Along with a lady to Holland , and they Would tell her love at his return , she was dead . That he with some other damsel might wed . Then would it be lawful to wed the squire , Who did her beautiful features admire . Thus it was contrived , to Holland she was sent , Poor creature she knew not their cunning intent . But since her parents would have it so , In point of obedience she yielded to go , Where we will leave her , to treat of her love , Who had been gone two years and above . PART III . IN William's long voyage they came to a place , Where they had been but a short space . Where fortune did favour him , so that he bought A bargain worth hundreds and thousands 'tis thought Then laden with riches he came on shore , Said he , My jewel whom I do adore . I will go and visit before I do rest , My heart has been lodg'd a long time in her breast . Now when to the house of her father he came , He called for Susan , sweet Susan by name . But strait her mother did make this reply , 'Tis long since my daughter did languish and die . His heart at these tidings was ready to break , Some minutes he had not the power to speak , At length with a flood of tears he reply'd , Adieu to the pleasures and charms of a bride . My sorrows are more than I'm able to bear , Is Susan departed , sweet Susan the fair , Then none in the world I do love , since she Is laid in the grave that was dearest to me . Their presence he quit with watery eyes , And went to his father and mother likewise , His own loving parents , and with them he left His wealth , 'cause he was of his love bereft . Resolved I am to travel again , Perhaps it will wear off my anguish and pain . Take care of my riches , 'tis valve unknown , And if I return not , then it is your own . But if I should live to see you once more , I make no doubt but the same you'll restore . Ay , that I will , soon , the father reply'd . So for this long voyage he then did provide . He goes on board , and away he did steer : The seas were calm , and the element clear At first . At length a storm did arise , Black clouds did cover and darken the skies . The seas did foam , and the winds did roar , At length being driven upon the Dutch shore , Their ship was shatter'd and so torn indeed . That they on they voyage could not proceed . Now while they laid by their ship to repair . William went to the Hague , and walk'd there . And as he was walking along in the street , With beautiful Susan he happen'd to meet . He started as soon as her face he beheld . With wonder and pleasure he was so fill'd , Oh! tell me , said he , you blessed powers above . Do not my eyes deceive me , or is it my love . They say , she's been buried twelve months almost . Sure this is my love , or her beautiful ghost . Then quick he went to her , and found it was she , And none in the world was so happy as he . My dearest sweet Susan why dost thou rome ? What destiny brought thee so far from home ? The truth she told him , with tears in her eyee , Concerning the farmer and squire likewise . They courted me long , but still I said nay , And therefore my relations sent me away To wait on a lady , with whom I am now , Because I would not be false to my vow . He presently told her of his affairs , His riches , his troubles , and his cares . And how he was going a voyage to make . But knew not whither , and all for her sake , But as we was sailing , the weather grew foul , The winds did blow , and billows did roll , Yet nevertheless on this turbulent sea , The winds were kind , and convey'd me to thee . I'll go to thy lady , and let her to know You shall serve no longer , but with me go , Unto fair Plymouth , where thou shalt be seen , As gay as herself or as fine as a queen . PART IV. HE made a dispatch and brought her away , The seas were calm , and the winds did obey , So that in short time to Plymouth they came , And now he was clearly for changing his name . He told his father and mother that there , By fortune's kind favour he lit on his dear . And now we will prepare for the wedding said he , Thy father and mother invited must be , Then unto her parents he hasted at last , And told the height of his sorrow was passed , For since you say Susan your daughter is dead , I have found a beauty with whom I will wed , And therefore I come to bring the news , I hope one favour you will not refuse . O! honour me then with your presence I pray , And come to the wedding , to-morrow's the day . They promis'd to come , well pleas'd to the heart To think so well they had acted their part . Now , now , said the mother , I have my desire , We'll fetch home our daughter to marry the 'squire . The very next morning sweet Susan was dressed , In sumptuous apparel , more gay than the rest . The richest things that the world could afford , Embroidered with gold he had from abroad . With diamonds and rubies her vesture did shine , Her features did look like and angel divine , Scarce ever was mortal so glorious and great , And likewise her modesty suited her state . Now they being all down to dinner set , This beautiful couple so happily met . This stately apparel had alter'd her so Her father and mother her face did not know . A health to the bride round the table did pass , The mother of Susan then taking a glass , Did doe as the rest , and spoke with a grace , Had my daughter been here she'd been in your place The bride at this saying , then modestly smil'd , To think the mother knew not her own child , Soon after the bride arose from her seat . And fell on her knees at her parents feet . I am your daughter whom you did send To Holland , but Heaven stood my best friend , And plac'd me secure in the arms of my love ; For which , I may thank the blessed powers above . Her father and mother with blushes reply'd , The 'squire was eager to make her his bride , But since it is order'd by Heaven's decree , We grant you our blessing , rise up from your knee , Then William spoke up with a noble grace , A fig for the 'squire , bring him to my face , For crowns of bright silver with him I'll let fallen , And he that drops longest shall surely take all . They wonder'd how he should such riches gain , But they believ'd 'twas true in the main , Because both appeared so glorious and gay , With music and dancing they finish'd the day . Printed and Sold in Bow Church-Yard . my best friend , And plac'd me secure in the arms of my love ; For which , I may thank the blessed powers above . Her father and mother with blushes reply'd , The 'squire was eager to make her his bride , But since it is order'd by Heaven's decree , We grant you our blessing , rise up from your knee , Then William spoke up with a noble grace , A fig for the 'squire , bring him to my face , For crowns of bright silver with him I'll let fallen , And he that drops longest shall surely take all . They wonder'd how he should such riches gain , But they believ'd 'twas true in the main , Because both appeared so glorious and gay , With music and dancing they finish'd the day . Printed and Sold in Bow Church-Yard . 