The FRIAR well-Fitted . OR , A pretty JEST that once befell , How a Maid put a Friar to cool in a Well . AS I lay musing all alone , Fa , la , la , la , A pretty jest I thought upon , Fa , etc Then listen a while , and I will you tell , Of a Friar that lov'd a bonny lass well . Fa , la , la , la , lang tree down a dilla . He came to a maid when she went to - bed , Desiring to have her maidenhead ; But she denied his desire , And told him that she feared hell-fire . Tush , quoth the friar , you need not to doubt , If thou wer't in hell I would sing thee out Then ( said the maid ) thou shalt have thy reques The Friar was glad as a fox in his nest . But one thing quoth she ) I do desire , Before that you have what you require ; Before that you shall do the thing , And Angel of money thou shalt me bring . Tush , quoth the friar , we shall agree , No money shall part my love and me ; Before that I will see thee lack , I'll pawn the gray gown off my back . The maid bethought her of a wile , How she might the Friar beguile ; While he was gone , the truth to tell , She hung a cloth before the well . The Friar came , as his covenant was , With money to his bonny lass : Good-morrow , fair maid . Good-mor - row , said she , Here is the money I promised thee . She thanked the man , and she took the money Now let us go to it , quoth he , my swee - honey . O stay , quoth she , some respite make , My father comes , he will you take . Alas , quoth the Friar , where shall I run , To hide me till that she is gone ? Behind the curtain run thou , quoth she , And there my father cannot you see . Behind the cloth the friar he crept , And into the well on a sudden he leapt . Alas , quoth he , I am in the well , No matter , quoth she , if thou wer't in hell . Thou saidst thou couldst sing me out of hell , Now prithee sing thyself out of the well The Friar sung on with a pitiful found , Oh help me out , or I shall be drown'd . I trow quoth she , your courage is cool'd ; Quoth the Friar I never was so fool'd ; I never was so served before , Then take heed , quoth she , thou com'st here no more . Quoth he , for good St. Francis sake , On his Disciple some pity take , Quoth she , St. Francis never taught His scholars to tempt young maidens to nought . The Friar did entreat her still , That she should help him out of the well She herd him make such piteous moan She helped him out and bid him be gone . Quoth he , shall I have my money a - gain , Which thou from me hast beforehand ta'en ? Good sir , quoth she , there is no such matter ; I'll make you pay for fouling my water . The Friar went along the street , Dropping wet , like a new wash'd she '''''Both Old and Young commended the Maid . That such a witty prank had play'd . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , London The FRIAR well-Fitted . OR , A pretty JEST that once befell , How a Maid put a Friar to cool in a Well . AS I lay musing all alone , Fa , la , la , la , A pretty jest I thought upon , Fa , etc Then listen a while , and I will you tell , Of a Friar that lov'd a bonny lass well . Fa , la , la , la , lang tree down a dilla . He came to a maid when she went to - bed , Desiring to have her maidenhead ; But she denied his desire , And told him that she feared hell-fire . Tush , quoth the friar , you need not to doubt , If thou wer't in hell I would sing thee out Then ( said the maid ) thou shalt have thy reques The Friar was glad as a fox in his nest . But one thing quoth she ) I do desire , Before that you have what you require ; Before that you shall do the thing , And Angel of money thou shalt me bring . Tush , quoth the friar , we shall agree , No money shall part my love and me ; Before that I will see thee lack , I'll pawn the gray gown off my back . The maid bethought her of a wile , How she might the Friar beguile ; While he was gone , the truth to tell , She hung a cloth before the well . The Friar came , as his covenant was , With money to his bonny lass : Good-morrow , fair maid . Good-mor - row , said she , Here is the money I promised thee . She thanked the man , and she took the money Now let us go to it , quoth he , my swee - honey . O stay , quoth she , some respite make , My father comes , he will you take . Alas , quoth the Friar , where shall I run , To hide me till that she is gone ? Behind the curtain run thou , quoth she , And there my father cannot you see . Behind the cloth the friar he crept , And into the well on a sudden he leapt . Alas , quoth he , I am in the well , No matter , quoth she , if thou wer't in hell . Thou saidst thou couldst sing me out of hell , Now prithee sing thyself out of the well The Friar sung on with a pitiful found , Oh help me out , or I shall be drown'd . I trow quoth she , your courage is cool'd ; Quoth the Friar I never was so fool'd ; I never was so served before , Then take heed , quoth she , thou com'st here no more . Quoth he , for good St. Francis sake , On his Disciple some pity take , Quoth she , St. Francis never taught His scholars to tempt young maidens to nought . The Friar did entreat her still , That she should help him out of the well She herd him make such piteous moan She helped him out and bid him be gone . Quoth he , shall I have my money a - gain , Which thou from me hast beforehand ta'en ? Good sir , quoth she , there is no such matter ; I'll make you pay for fouling my water . The Friar went along the street , Dropping wet , like a new wash'd she '''''Both Old and Young commended the Maid . That such a witty prank had play'd . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , London 