True LOVE rewarded with LOYALTY ; OR , Mirth and Joy after Sorrow and Sadness . This young Man did walk in pensive Manner , Being a Soldier under Cupid's Banner ; In loving Terms he did express his Mind , Still fearing that his Love would prove unkind : But she to ease him from all future Pain , Did cheer his Heart , and grant him Love again . To a new West-country Tune , called , Oh hark my Love ; or , Flora Farewell . AS I walk'd forth to take the Air , One Morning musing all alone ; I herd a young Man full of Care , Thus to himself did make great Moan . My dearest Dear and I must part , So sad and heavy is my Heart , It does increase my Misery , My Love that I must part from thee . But no Leave of my Love I'll take , I will now wander for her Sake ; And like Leander I will prove So true and constant to my Love . For dost thou think I'll vow and swear , And not my Promise quite fulfil ; Then deal with me as I deserve , If I be not thy true Love still . My Lands and Livings are but small , For to maintain my Love withal : But with my Labour and my Pain , My dearest Dear I will maintain . Thy Friends do owe to me a Grudge , Because to thee I bear Goodwill : But stand thou up in my Defence , And I will be thy true Love still . If I had Gold and Silver store , As much as ever Croesus wone , 'Twere all too little for my Love , Considering what for me she's done . Now Hand in Hand with thee I'll go , Thro' Mirth and Melody , and Woe , Nay , thro' the World I'll go with thee , Whate'er betides to my Body . The pale fac'd Moon shall loose her Light , The glorious Sun shall darken'd be , And Stars shall from the Heaven fallen , My Love , e'er I prove false to thee . There shall no Grass grow on the Plain , Nor Blossom bud upon the Tree : All Fruit shall have a deadly Wound , My Love , e'er I prove false to thee . The swiftest River shall run back , The Wind shall drive the Water-mill ; And the brightest Day shall turn to black , If I be not thy true Love still . Thus he did languish and complain , And soar he was oppressed with Grief : At last his Love did hear his Moan , And straight she came to his Relief . The Maid's Answer . MY Dearest why dost thou complain , And grieve my Heart , since I am true , Fear not that I will thee disdain , I'll never change thee for a new . Thou shalt not part from me , my Dear , Nor wander in and unknown Land , A Part of all thy Grief I'll bear , And always be at thy Command . As true as ever Hero was , To his Leander I will prove : Were it to cross the Hellespont , I would not fear to find my Love . Thy Oaths and Vows I do believe , And plainly I thy Love do see : It very much my Heart does grieve , That thou should'st so lament for me . What tho' my Friends do at thee frown , And will not yield I shall thee love ? Fear not since I will be thy own , And constant ever will I prove . The Lambs shall with the Lions play , And timorous Hares the Hounds pursue , The Elements shall pass away , E'er I to thee will prove untrue . No Snow shall lie upon the Alps , Nor Flames break out from AEtna's Hill , The wild Beasts shall forsake their Walks , If I be not thy true Love still . Therefore , my Dear , let Sorrow cease , I'm come for to embrace my own . Which will my former Joys increase , For thee I love , and thee alone . The Conclusion . WHEN he had herd her sweet Reply , His dying Spirits did revive ; Quoth he , for Love I will not die , I am the happiest Man alive . Blessed be the Time that my true Love , Did hither come to cheer my Hear Her Constancy I now do prove , Nothing but Death shall us two part . Great Joy there was when they did meet , And loving Compliments did pass ; And many Times with Kisses sweet , He did embrace his amorous Lass. Let all young Lovers that do hear This Song , be faithful to their Choice ; Then each one may enjoy his Dear , Which makes true Lovers much rejoice . Newcastle upon Tyne , Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . True LOVE rewarded with LOYALTY ; OR , Mirth and Joy after Sorrow and Sadness . This young Man did walk in pensive Manner , Being a Soldier under Cupid's Banner ; In loving Terms he did express his Mind , Still fearing that his Love would prove unkind : But she to ease him from all future Pain , Did cheer his Heart , and grant him Love again . To a new West-country Tune , called , Oh hark my Love ; or , Flora Farewell . AS I walk'd forth to take the Air , One Morning musing all alone ; I herd a young Man full of Care , Thus to himself did make great Moan . My dearest Dear and I must part , So sad and heavy is my Heart , It does increase my Misery , My Love that I must part from thee . But no Leave of my Love I'll take , I will now wander for her Sake ; And like Leander I will prove So true and constant to my Love . For dost thou think I'll vow and swear , And not my Promise quite fulfil ; Then deal with me as I deserve , If I be not thy true Love still . My Lands and Livings are but small , For to maintain my Love withal : But with my Labour and my Pain , My dearest Dear I will maintain . Thy Friends do owe to me a Grudge , Because to thee I bear Goodwill : But stand thou up in my Defence , And I will be thy true Love still . If I had Gold and Silver store , As much as ever Croesus wone , 'Twere all too little for my Love , Considering what for me she's done . Now Hand in Hand with thee I'll go , Thro' Mirth and Melody , and Woe , Nay , thro' the World I'll go with thee , Whate'er betides to my Body . The pale fac'd Moon shall loose her Light , The glorious Sun shall darken'd be , And Stars shall from the Heaven fallen , My Love , e'er I prove false to thee . There shall no Grass grow on the Plain , Nor Blossom bud upon the Tree : All Fruit shall have a deadly Wound , My Love , e'er I prove false to thee . The swiftest River shall run back , The Wind shall drive the Water-mill ; And the brightest Day shall turn to black , If I be not thy true Love still . Thus he did languish and complain , And soar he was oppressed with Grief : At last his Love did hear his Moan , And straight she came to his Relief . The Maid's Answer . MY Dearest why dost thou complain , And grieve my Heart , since I am true , Fear not that I will thee disdain , I'll never change thee for a new . Thou shalt not part from me , my Dear , Nor wander in and unknown Land , A Part of all thy Grief I'll bear , And always be at thy Command . As true as ever Hero was , To his Leander I will prove : Were it to cross the Hellespont , I would not fear to find my Love . Thy Oaths and Vows I do believe , And plainly I thy Love do see : It very much my Heart does grieve , That thou should'st so lament for me . What tho' my Friends do at thee frown , And will not yield I shall thee love ? Fear not since I will be thy own , And constant ever will I prove . The Lambs shall with the Lions play , And timorous Hares the Hounds pursue , The Elements shall pass away , E'er I to thee will prove untrue . No Snow shall lie upon the Alps , Nor Flames break out from AEtna's Hill , The wild Beasts shall forsake their Walks , If I be not thy true Love still . Therefore , my Dear , let Sorrow cease , I'm come for to embrace my own . Which will my former Joys increase , For thee I love , and thee alone . The Conclusion . WHEN he had herd her sweet Reply , His dying Spirits did revive ; Quoth he , for Love I will not die , I am the happiest Man alive . Blessed be the Time that my true Love , Did hither come to cheer my Hear Her Constancy I now do prove , Nothing but Death shall us two part . Great Joy there was when they did meet , And loving Compliments did pass ; And many Times with Kisses sweet , He did embrace his amorous Lass. Let all young Lovers that do hear This Song , be faithful to their Choice ; Then each one may enjoy his Dear , Which makes true Lovers much rejoice . Newcastle upon Tyne , Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 