The youngman's Resolution To the MAIDENS REQUEST . Being a Witty Dialogue , betwixt a YOUNG MAN And a MAID . Wherein she asked him when he intends to marry , And he resolves her how long he will tarry . To the Tune of , In Summer time . AS I was walking under a Grove , within my self as I supposed ; My mind did oftentimes remove , and by no means could be disclosed , At length by chance a friend I met , which caused me long time for to tarry , And then of me she did entreat , to tell her when I meant to marry . Sweet heart , quoth I , if you would know , then mark these words , and I'le reveal it ; Since in your mind you bear it so , and in your heart you do conceal it ; She promised me for to make no words , but of such things I would be warry , And thus in brief I did begin to tell her when I meant to marry . When shrovetide falls on Easter week , and Christmass in the midst of July , And Lawyers for no Fees will plead , and Tailors they live just and truly ; When all deceits are quite put down and truth by all men is preferred , And Indigo dies read and brown , Oh then my Love and I [ ' ] le be married . When Saffron grows on every tree , and every stream flows Milk and Honey , And Sugar grows on Carter fields , and Usurers refuse good Money : When Countrymen for Judges fit , and Lambmass falls on February , And Millers they their Toll forgets , Oh then my Love and I will marry . The second Part to the same Tune . WHen Men and Beasts in Ocean flows , & Fish in green fields are feeding : When Muscle shells in the streets do grow , and Swans upon dry Rocks are breeding ; When Cockle shells are Diamond Rings , and Glass to Pearl may be compared , And Gold is made of the grey Goose wings ; Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When Summer does not dry up mire , and men on earth do leave to flatter ; When Bakers they do use no fire , and Brewers they do use no water : When mountains are by men removed , and England into France is carried , And all Maids prove true to their Lovers , Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When Hostesses do reckon true , and Dutch-men leave off drinking Brandy ; When Cats do bark , and Dogs do mew , and Brimstone is took for Suggar-candie . Or when that Whitsuntide does fallen within the Month of January , And Cobblers work without and Awl , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When Women knows not how to scold , and Maids of sweethearts ne're are thinking : When Men i'the fire complains of cold , and Ships on Salisbury-plain fear sinking ; When Horse-coursers turn honest Men , and London into York is carried , Or when you out of One can take Ten , it's then my Love and I'le be married . When Candlesticks do serve for Bells' , and Frying-pans are us'd for Ladles ; Or when in the Sea they dig for Wells , and Porrage Pots they make for Cradles : When Maids forget to go a Maying , and a Man on his back and Ox can carry ; Or when the Mice with the Cat be playing , 'tis then my Love and I'le be married . Good Sir , since you have told me when , you are resolved for to marry ; I wish with all my heart till then that for a Wife you still may tarry : For if all young men were of your mind , and Maids not better were preferred ; I think it would be when the Devil's blind , that we and our Lovers should be married . FINIS . The youngman's Resolution To the MAIDENS REQUEST . Being a Witty Dialogue , betwixt a YOUNG MAN And a MAID . Wherein she asked him when he intends to marry , And he resolves her how long he will tarry . To the Tune of , In Summer time . AS I was walking under a Grove , within my self as I supposed ; My mind did oftentimes remove , and by no means could be disclosed , At length by chance a friend I met , which caused me long time for to tarry , And then of me she did entreat , to tell her when I meant to marry . Sweet heart , quoth I , if you would know , then mark these words , and I'le reveal it ; Since in your mind you bear it so , and in your heart you do conceal it ; She promised me for to make no words , but of such things I would be warry , And thus in brief I did begin to tell her when I meant to marry . When shrovetide falls on Easter week , and Christmass in the midst of July , And Lawyers for no Fees will plead , and Tailors they live just and truly ; When all deceits are quite put down and truth by all men is preferred , And Indigo dies read and brown , Oh then my Love and I [ ' ] le be married . When Saffron grows on every tree , and every stream flows Milk and Honey , And Sugar grows on Carter fields , and Usurers refuse good Money : When Countrymen for Judges fit , and Lambmass falls on February , And Millers they their Toll forgets , Oh then my Love and I will marry . The second Part to the same Tune . WHen Men and Beasts in Ocean flows , & Fish in green fields are feeding : When Muscle shells in the streets do grow , and Swans upon dry Rocks are breeding ; When Cockle shells are Diamond Rings , and Glass to Pearl may be compared , And Gold is made of the grey Goose wings ; Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When Summer does not dry up mire , and men on earth do leave to flatter ; When Bakers they do use no fire , and Brewers they do use no water : When mountains are by men removed , and England into France is carried , And all Maids prove true to their Lovers , Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When Hostesses do reckon true , and Dutch-men leave off drinking Brandy ; When Cats do bark , and Dogs do mew , and Brimstone is took for Suggar-candie . Or when that Whitsuntide does fallen within the Month of January , And Cobblers work without and Awl , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When Women knows not how to scold , and Maids of sweethearts ne're are thinking : When Men i'the fire complains of cold , and Ships on Salisbury-plain fear sinking ; When Horse-coursers turn honest Men , and London into York is carried , Or when you out of One can take Ten , it's then my Love and I'le be married . When Candlesticks do serve for Bells' , and Frying-pans are us'd for Ladles ; Or when in the Sea they dig for Wells , and Porrage Pots they make for Cradles : When Maids forget to go a Maying , and a Man on his back and Ox can carry ; Or when the Mice with the Cat be playing , 'tis then my Love and I'le be married . Good Sir , since you have told me when , you are resolved for to marry ; I wish with all my heart till then that for a Wife you still may tarry : For if all young men were of your mind , and Maids not better were preferred ; I think it would be when the Devil's blind , that we and our Lovers should be married . FINIS . 