The Colliers Rant . AS me and my Marrow was ganning to work ; We met with the Devil it was in the dark ; I up with my pick , it being in the Neit , [ I ] knock'd off his Horns likewise his Club feet . Follow the horses , Johnny my Lad Oh! Follow them through my canny Lad Oh! Follow the horses , Johnny my Lad Oh! O Lad lie away , canny Lad Oh! As me and my Marrow was putting the tram , The low it went out and my marrow went wrang You would have laugh'd had you seen the Gam' The Deil got my marraw but I got the Tram . Follow the Horses etc O Marrow , O Marrow what dost thou think , I've broken my bottle and spilled a' my drink . I' lost a' my shin splints among the great stanes . Draw me t' the shaft its time to gane hame . Follow the Horses etc Oh! marrow Oh! marrow where hast thou been ; Driving the drift from off the low seam , Driving the drift etc Had up the low lad , Deil stop out thy een . Follow the Horses etc Oh! marrow , Oh! marrow this is wor pay week , We'll get penny loaves and drink to our beek ; And we'll fill up our bumper and round it shall go . Follow the horses Johnny lad Oh! Follow the horses etc There is my horse , and there is my tram ; Twee horns full of grease will make her to gang ; There is my hoggars , likewise my half shoes , And smash my heart marrow , my putting's a' done . Follow the horses my Johnny Lad Oh! Follow them through my canny Lad Oh! Follow the horse Johnny my Lad Oh! Oh! lad lie away , canny Lad Oh! The Colliers Rant . AS me and my Marrow was ganning to work ; We met with the Devil it was in the dark ; I up with my pick , it being in the Neit , [ I ] knock'd off his Horns likewise his Club feet . Follow the horses , Johnny my Lad Oh! Follow them through my canny Lad Oh! Follow the horses , Johnny my Lad Oh! O Lad lie away , canny Lad Oh! As me and my Marrow was putting the tram , The low it went out and my marrow went wrang You would have laugh'd had you seen the Gam' The Deil got my marraw but I got the Tram . Follow the Horses etc O Marrow , O Marrow what dost thou think , I've broken my bottle and spilled a' my drink . I' lost a' my shin splints among the great stanes . Draw me t' the shaft its time to gane hame . Follow the Horses etc Oh! marrow Oh! marrow where hast thou been ; Driving the drift from off the low seam , Driving the drift etc Had up the low lad , Deil stop out thy een . Follow the Horses etc Oh! marrow , Oh! marrow this is wor pay week , We'll get penny loaves and drink to our beek ; And we'll fill up our bumper and round it shall go . Follow the horses Johnny lad Oh! Follow the horses etc There is my horse , and there is my tram ; Twee horns full of grease will make her to gang ; There is my hoggars , likewise my half shoes , And smash my heart marrow , my putting's a' done . Follow the horses my Johnny Lad Oh! Follow them through my canny Lad Oh! Follow the horse Johnny my Lad Oh! Oh! lad lie away , canny Lad Oh! 