The Lass of the Hill. AT the brow of a Hill , a fair Shepherdess dwelled , Who the Pangs of Ambition , of Love ne'er had felt ; A few sober Maxims , still run in her Head , That'twas best for to ern . e'er she Eat her brown Bred ; That to rise with the Lark , was conducive to Health , And to rest in a Cottage , contentment was wealth . Young Roger who lived , in the Valley belowr Who at Church and at Market , was reckon'd a Beau , Would oftentimes try . o'er the Hearts to prevail , And rest on high Pitchfork , to tell her his Tales ; That with ease his Addresses , soon gain'd on her Heart , Being Artless herself she suspected no Art , He flatter'd , protested , he kneel'd and implor'd , And his Lies still with Oaths , he would grace like a Lord , Het Eyes he commended , with Language well dressed , And enlarged on the Tortures , he felt on her breast ; With Sighs and with Tears , he so soften'd her mind , That with downright Compassion , to Love she inclined . But no sooner he'd Melted , the ice in her breast , The heat of his Passion , that Moment decreased , And now he goes flaunting ; all over toe Vale , And boasts on his Conquest , to Richard and Hall , Tho' he sees her but seldom , he'es always in haste , And when e'er he speaks of her , he makes her his Jest . Take heed therefore Maidens , of Britain's fair Isle , How you venture your Hearts , for a look or a Smile , For young Cupid is Artful , and Virgins are frail . And you'll find a false Roger , in every Vale ; Who to Court you and tempt you , will try all their Skill , But remember the Lass , at the Brow of the Hill. The Lass of the Hill. AT the brow of a Hill , a fair Shepherdess dwelled , Who the Pangs of Ambition , of Love ne'er had felt ; A few sober Maxims , still run in her Head , That'twas best for to ern . e'er she Eat her brown Bred ; That to rise with the Lark , was conducive to Health , And to rest in a Cottage , contentment was wealth . Young Roger who lived , in the Valley belowr Who at Church and at Market , was reckon'd a Beau , Would oftentimes try . o'er the Hearts to prevail , And rest on high Pitchfork , to tell her his Tales ; That with ease his Addresses , soon gain'd on her Heart , Being Artless herself she suspected no Art , He flatter'd , protested , he kneel'd and implor'd , And his Lies still with Oaths , he would grace like a Lord , Het Eyes he commended , with Language well dressed , And enlarged on the Tortures , he felt on her breast ; With Sighs and with Tears , he so soften'd her mind , That with downright Compassion , to Love she inclined . But no sooner he'd Melted , the ice in her breast , The heat of his Passion , that Moment decreased , And now he goes flaunting ; all over toe Vale , And boasts on his Conquest , to Richard and Hall , Tho' he sees her but seldom , he'es always in haste , And when e'er he speaks of her , he makes her his Jest . Take heed therefore Maidens , of Britain's fair Isle , How you venture your Hearts , for a look or a Smile , For young Cupid is Artful , and Virgins are frail . And you'll find a false Roger , in every Vale ; Who to Court you and tempt you , will try all their Skill , But remember the Lass , at the Brow of the Hill. 