[ A ] Pleasant New Ballad to sing Ev'ning and Morn , [ Of the Bl ] oody MURTHER of Sir JOHN BARLEY-CORN . To the Tune of , Shall I lie beyond thee , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two Noble-Men were greeting : And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day : They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His name was Sir John Barleycorn , he dwelled down in a vale ; And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they call'd him Thomas Good-ale . The one nam Sir Richard Beer , was ready at that time , And likewise came a busy Peer , call'd Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black jack , some of them in a can ; But yet the chiefest in a black pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir Barleycorn fought in a bowl , who wone the Victory ; Which made them all to chafe and swear , that Barleycorn must die . Some said , kill him , some said him drown , some wished to hang him high , For those that fallowed Barleycorn , they said would Beggars die . Then with a blow they plow'd him up , and thus they did devise , To bury him within the earth , and swore he should not rise . With harrows strong they came to him , and burst clods on his head ; A joyful banquet then was made , when Barleycorn was dead . He rested still upon the earth , till rain from sky did fallen ; Then he grew up on branches green , which soar amaz'd them all . Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afraid ; For he sprung up on high , and had a goodly beard . When ripening at St. Jame's Tide , his countenance waxed wan , Yet now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a Man. Wherefore with hooks and sickles keen , unto the field they hy'd , They cut his legs off by the knees , and limb from limb divide . Then bloody they cut him down , from place were he did stand , And like a Thief for treachery they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac'd him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a pitchfork sharp and long they rend him to the heart , And Traitorlike for treason vile , they bound him in a cart . And tending him with weapons strong , unto the town they high , Whereas they mow'd him in a mow , and so they let him lie , They left him groaning by the walls , till all his bones was soar , And having took him up again they cast him on the floor . And hired two with holly clubs to beatrice at him at once ; Who thwacked so hard on Barleycorn , the flesh fell from his bones . Then after took him up again , to please some Women's mind , Yea , dusted , fann'd , and sifted him , till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a sack , which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a fat , for three days space and more . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry ; Then cast him on the chamber-floor , and swore that he should die . They rub'd and stur'd him up and down , and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death , his body should be sure . They pull'd and hal'd him up in spite , and threw him on a kill , Yea , dry'd him o're a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the mill they forc'd him strait , whereas they bruis'd his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . The last time they took him up , they serv'd him worst then that , For with hight scolding liquour store they washed him in a fat . But not content with this , God wot , they wrought him so much harm , With cruel threat they promise next , to beatrice him into a balm . And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the fat , and turn'd into the barrel . They goar'd and broach'd it with a tap , so thus his death began , And drew out every drop of blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in jacks upon there backs , some brought in bowls and pail , Yea , every Man some weapon had , poor Barleycorn to kill . When Sir John Good-ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their tongues away , their legs , and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , so paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the walls , some tumbling in the mire ; Some lay groaning by the walls , some fell i'th' street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew what he had done o're night . All you good Wives that brew good ale , God keep you from all teen , But if you put too much water in , the Devil put out your eyes . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by A. Bettesworth , at the Read Lion on Londonbridge . [ A ] Pleasant New Ballad to sing Ev'ning and Morn , [ Of the Bl ] oody MURTHER of Sir JOHN BARLEY-CORN . To the Tune of , Shall I lie beyond thee , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two Noble-Men were greeting : And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day : They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His name was Sir John Barleycorn , he dwelled down in a vale ; And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they call'd him Thomas Good-ale . The one nam Sir Richard Beer , was ready at that time , And likewise came a busy Peer , call'd Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black jack , some of them in a can ; But yet the chiefest in a black pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir Barleycorn fought in a bowl , who wone the Victory ; Which made them all to chafe and swear , that Barleycorn must die . Some said , kill him , some said him drown , some wished to hang him high , For those that fallowed Barleycorn , they said would Beggars die . Then with a blow they plow'd him up , and thus they did devise , To bury him within the earth , and swore he should not rise . With harrows strong they came to him , and burst clods on his head ; A joyful banquet then was made , when Barleycorn was dead . He rested still upon the earth , till rain from sky did fallen ; Then he grew up on branches green , which soar amaz'd them all . Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afraid ; For he sprung up on high , and had a goodly beard . When ripening at St. Jame's Tide , his countenance waxed wan , Yet now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a Man. Wherefore with hooks and sickles keen , unto the field they hy'd , They cut his legs off by the knees , and limb from limb divide . Then bloody they cut him down , from place were he did stand , And like a Thief for treachery they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac'd him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a pitchfork sharp and long they rend him to the heart , And Traitorlike for treason vile , they bound him in a cart . And tending him with weapons strong , unto the town they high , Whereas they mow'd him in a mow , and so they let him lie , They left him groaning by the walls , till all his bones was soar , And having took him up again they cast him on the floor . And hired two with holly clubs to beatrice at him at once ; Who thwacked so hard on Barleycorn , the flesh fell from his bones . Then after took him up again , to please some Women's mind , Yea , dusted , fann'd , and sifted him , till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a sack , which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a fat , for three days space and more . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry ; Then cast him on the chamber-floor , and swore that he should die . They rub'd and stur'd him up and down , and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death , his body should be sure . They pull'd and hal'd him up in spite , and threw him on a kill , Yea , dry'd him o're a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the mill they forc'd him strait , whereas they bruis'd his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . The last time they took him up , they serv'd him worst then that , For with hight scolding liquour store they washed him in a fat . But not content with this , God wot , they wrought him so much harm , With cruel threat they promise next , to beatrice him into a balm . And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the fat , and turn'd into the barrel . They goar'd and broach'd it with a tap , so thus his death began , And drew out every drop of blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in jacks upon there backs , some brought in bowls and pail , Yea , every Man some weapon had , poor Barleycorn to kill . When Sir John Good-ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their tongues away , their legs , and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , so paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the walls , some tumbling in the mire ; Some lay groaning by the walls , some fell i'th' street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew what he had done o're night . All you good Wives that brew good ale , God keep you from all teen , But if you put too much water in , the Devil put out your eyes . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by A. Bettesworth , at the Read Lion on Londonbridge . 