The COALY TYNE , A New SONG , Tune , Maid of the Mill. ALL you who Peace and Plenty love , And happy Scenes would see , To Banks of Coaly Tyne repair , And satisfy'd you'll be : For Beauty , Wit , and Taste that's fit , And Mirth with Unity ; What others dream , be this my Theme -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! What though with Dust , of her rich Mines , Her Waves they sable be ; No greener Banks , nor fairer Maids , On any Stream you'll see : For pleasant Seats , and noble Streets , Disdaining Rivalry , Where Freedom glows , sing then my Muse -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! Mars , on her Banks , Venus address'd , When she rose from the Sea ; And 'cause they lov'd the generous Soil , They bless'd her Progeny . There's Beauty's Charms each Heart alarms , With Cupid's Archery , Where e'er he goes , the Boy holloes -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! When brave Occasion bids , her Sons At Honour's call you see , And who's the Man that dare infringe , Their dear lov'd Liberty : In Britain's Right her Lads will fight , Well knows our Enemy ; Ev'n Britain's King may deign to sing -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! Each Realm is thankful for her Gifts , As far as flows the Sea ; And grateful Tribute do present , As to some Deity : When they are warm , how shall we term , Their Mirth and Jollity , All Hearts rejoice , huzza my Boys -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! Then you , her Sons , in splendid Barge , In Boat , or swift Galley , That on her Tide for Pleasure glide , With Streamers gallantly , See that with Grace , your Oars keep Pace , To Voices tun'd with glee , While Music play and Men huzza -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! FINIS . The COALY TYNE , A New SONG , Tune , Maid of the Mill. ALL you who Peace and Plenty love , And happy Scenes would see , To Banks of Coaly Tyne repair , And satisfy'd you'll be : For Beauty , Wit , and Taste that's fit , And Mirth with Unity ; What others dream , be this my Theme -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! What though with Dust , of her rich Mines , Her Waves they sable be ; No greener Banks , nor fairer Maids , On any Stream you'll see : For pleasant Seats , and noble Streets , Disdaining Rivalry , Where Freedom glows , sing then my Muse -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! Mars , on her Banks , Venus address'd , When she rose from the Sea ; And 'cause they lov'd the generous Soil , They bless'd her Progeny . There's Beauty's Charms each Heart alarms , With Cupid's Archery , Where e'er he goes , the Boy holloes -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! When brave Occasion bids , her Sons At Honour's call you see , And who's the Man that dare infringe , Their dear lov'd Liberty : In Britain's Right her Lads will fight , Well knows our Enemy ; Ev'n Britain's King may deign to sing -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! Each Realm is thankful for her Gifts , As far as flows the Sea ; And grateful Tribute do present , As to some Deity : When they are warm , how shall we term , Their Mirth and Jollity , All Hearts rejoice , huzza my Boys -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! Then you , her Sons , in splendid Barge , In Boat , or swift Galley , That on her Tide for Pleasure glide , With Streamers gallantly , See that with Grace , your Oars keep Pace , To Voices tun'd with glee , While Music play and Men huzza -- The Coaly Tyne for me ! FINIS . 