Thro' the Wood Laddy . To a New Scots Tune . AS Phillis and Thisbe did walk hand in hand , Oh they spy'd a shepherd , ( Oh they spy'd a shepherd , As Phillis and Thisbe did walk hand in hand , Oh they spy'd a shepherd that was at a stand . So if for to venture he had been afraid , As sweet was the splendour ( so , etc ) their beauty display'd . Said Phillis unto him , Where do you resort , Or where do you wander , ( or , etc ) or where do you sport . He modestly answered if you would know , My name is Philorum ( my , etc ) I thro' the woods go . Can't you the sweet Grove and the forest forsake , And leave off to wander ( and etc ) for Phillis's sake . Should I the sweet Grove and the forest give o'er , And leave off to wander ( and , etc ) it is thee I adore . Just as they were talking , a Boy I espy'd , With a bow and a quiver ( with , etc ) fast ty'd to his side . Said the boy to the shepherd to thee I am sent , From Venus my mother , ( from , etc ) thy mind to content . The bow it was bent with a thundering dart , The shepherd was wounded ( etc ) quite through the heart . The blind boy in triumph went sporting away , And left poor Philoram ( and left , etc ) a victim and prey . But the nymph had more pity , and whisper'd him soft , A cure I will tender , ( a cure , etc ) let the Boy fly aloft . She kissed him and hug'd him , and did him so queeze , She kissed out his passion , ( she kissed , etc ) Philoram god ease . I will pull off my garters and bind up the wound , While poor bleeding Strephon in my arms does swoon . Down under a valley where Chesley does stray , While Strephon shall kiss me , ( etc and bless me all day . Altho' friends are cruel , and will not consent , Go thro' the Woods Laddy , ( go , etc ) and make no complaint . For the Woods are pleasant , the night fair and clear , Go thro' the Woods Laddy , ( go , etc and keep us from fear . With bracelets of roses thy arms I will deck , Thou Queen of my fancy ( thou , etc ) whom I do respect . The crook and the hazel our covering shall be , None can be like them ( none can be like them , The crook and the hazel our cover ? ng shall be , None can be like them ) come fit down by me . Thro' the Wood Laddy . To a New Scots Tune . AS Phillis and Thisbe did walk hand in hand , Oh they spy'd a shepherd , ( Oh they spy'd a shepherd , As Phillis and Thisbe did walk hand in hand , Oh they spy'd a shepherd that was at a stand . So if for to venture he had been afraid , As sweet was the splendour ( so , etc ) their beauty display'd . Said Phillis unto him , Where do you resort , Or where do you wander , ( or , etc ) or where do you sport . He modestly answered if you would know , My name is Philorum ( my , etc ) I thro' the woods go . Can't you the sweet Grove and the forest forsake , And leave off to wander ( and etc ) for Phillis's sake . Should I the sweet Grove and the forest give o'er , And leave off to wander ( and , etc ) it is thee I adore . Just as they were talking , a Boy I espy'd , With a bow and a quiver ( with , etc ) fast ty'd to his side . Said the boy to the shepherd to thee I am sent , From Venus my mother , ( from , etc ) thy mind to content . The bow it was bent with a thundering dart , The shepherd was wounded ( etc ) quite through the heart . The blind boy in triumph went sporting away , And left poor Philoram ( and left , etc ) a victim and prey . But the nymph had more pity , and whisper'd him soft , A cure I will tender , ( a cure , etc ) let the Boy fly aloft . She kissed him and hug'd him , and did him so queeze , She kissed out his passion , ( she kissed , etc ) Philoram god ease . I will pull off my garters and bind up the wound , While poor bleeding Strephon in my arms does swoon . Down under a valley where Chesley does stray , While Strephon shall kiss me , ( etc and bless me all day . Altho' friends are cruel , and will not consent , Go thro' the Woods Laddy , ( go , etc ) and make no complaint . For the Woods are pleasant , the night fair and clear , Go thro' the Woods Laddy , ( go , etc and keep us from fear . With bracelets of roses thy arms I will deck , Thou Queen of my fancy ( thou , etc ) whom I do respect . The crook and the hazel our covering shall be , None can be like them ( none can be like them , The crook and the hazel our cover ? ng shall be , None can be like them ) come fit down by me . 