A bloody BATTLE between a Taylor and a Louse . A Taylor and a Louse , Liv'd together in a House , And betwixt them a Quarrel rose , The Taylor he thought much , And he ow'd the Louse a Grudge , For breeding her Young in his Clothes . Says the Louse , I wonder much , That your Malice should be such , That you would turn me out of Doors , One Time , you know , my Brood , Was the best Part of your Food , You was so damnable poor . Deny this , if you can , Nine Tailors make's a Man ; With nought but a Louse you can fight , But was a Louse to turn again , You're such valiant-hearted Men , 'Twould put you in a Fright . So then this very Time , This Taylor neat and fine , Caught the Louse by the Collar Bone . Said he , I'll let you know , Before I let you go , Whither a Taylor be a Man or no , The Louse she gave a Start , Made the Taylor let a Fart , And unto him thus did say , Do not strike me when I'm down , That's the Trick of a Clown , I pr'y thee let's have fair play . Says the Taylor this I grant , That Courage I do want ; But the Name of a Coward I scorn . Fight your best I do advance , I'll give you Time to rise , For your Speeches are not to be born . Then the Louse stood bolt upright , And made a bloody Fight , Give the Taylor a damnable Blow ; For he hit him o'er the Nob , Made the Taylor sighs and sob , He knew not how to stand or go . Then the Taylor god his Goose , And he threw it at the Louse , And gave her a Bang on the Side . Says the Louse , Your Heart is weak , For that's a Coward's Trick , And now I will well tan your Hide . Then the Louse god his Sheers , And clipped the Taylor's Ears , And the Blood it run on the Floor : And the Taylor sigh'd and cry'd , You would have thought he'd dy'd , And said he would fight no more . So now you plainly see , What valiant Men they be , Altho' of there Courage they boast ; But let them once be try'd , Hard Blows they can't abide , They'd rather have a pot and Toast , If there's any Taylor here , Who thinks I do them jeer , Or imagine I do him wrong , Let him take a Gun and fight , For King George and England's right , And so here I'll end my Song . All Gentlemen Tailors , that are willing to serve in the Company of Capt. Louse in Col. Flea's Regiment of Foot , let them repair to the sign of the Cabbage and three Cucumbers , where they shall be kindly entertain'd , and enter into present pay , with a nitty pair of breeches , and three Cucumbers a day Gentlemen Tailors , . Now mind your Exercise : See that you march with a full Body and and empty Stomach , advance your Needle , cock your Bodkins , rest your Yard Wand , prime your Thimbles , shoulder your Sheers , join your , Right hand to the Waistband of your Breeches draw fouth your live Lice cut there Heads off and fling their dead bodies to the Ground , let the quick ones march by two and three while the Drum beats Nit-o Nit , from the Right-hand doubled to the Left , Triple File of Tailors ; so march to the devil . A bloody BATTLE between a Taylor and a Louse . A Taylor and a Louse , Liv'd together in a House , And betwixt them a Quarrel rose , The Taylor he thought much , And he ow'd the Louse a Grudge , For breeding her Young in his Clothes . Says the Louse , I wonder much , That your Malice should be such , That you would turn me out of Doors , One Time , you know , my Brood , Was the best Part of your Food , You was so damnable poor . Deny this , if you can , Nine Tailors make's a Man ; With nought but a Louse you can fight , But was a Louse to turn again , You're such valiant-hearted Men , 'Twould put you in a Fright . So then this very Time , This Taylor neat and fine , Caught the Louse by the Collar Bone . Said he , I'll let you know , Before I let you go , Whither a Taylor be a Man or no , The Louse she gave a Start , Made the Taylor let a Fart , And unto him thus did say , Do not strike me when I'm down , That's the Trick of a Clown , I pr'y thee let's have fair play . Says the Taylor this I grant , That Courage I do want ; But the Name of a Coward I scorn . Fight your best I do advance , I'll give you Time to rise , For your Speeches are not to be born . Then the Louse stood bolt upright , And made a bloody Fight , Give the Taylor a damnable Blow ; For he hit him o'er the Nob , Made the Taylor sighs and sob , He knew not how to stand or go . Then the Taylor god his Goose , And he threw it at the Louse , And gave her a Bang on the Side . Says the Louse , Your Heart is weak , For that's a Coward's Trick , And now I will well tan your Hide . Then the Louse god his Sheers , And clipped the Taylor's Ears , And the Blood it run on the Floor : And the Taylor sigh'd and cry'd , You would have thought he'd dy'd , And said he would fight no more . So now you plainly see , What valiant Men they be , Altho' of there Courage they boast ; But let them once be try'd , Hard Blows they can't abide , They'd rather have a pot and Toast , If there's any Taylor here , Who thinks I do them jeer , Or imagine I do him wrong , Let him take a Gun and fight , For King George and England's right , And so here I'll end my Song . All Gentlemen Tailors , that are willing to serve in the Company of Capt. Louse in Col. Flea's Regiment of Foot , let them repair to the sign of the Cabbage and three Cucumbers , where they shall be kindly entertain'd , and enter into present pay , with a nitty pair of breeches , and three Cucumbers a day Gentlemen Tailors , . Now mind your Exercise : See that you march with a full Body and and empty Stomach , advance your Needle , cock your Bodkins , rest your Yard Wand , prime your Thimbles , shoulder your Sheers , join your , Right hand to the Waistband of your Breeches draw fouth your live Lice cut there Heads off and fling their dead bodies to the Ground , let the quick ones march by two and three while the Drum beats Nit-o Nit , from the Right-hand doubled to the Left , Triple File of Tailors ; so march to the devil . 