Admiral Matthews Engagement against the Come - bin'd Fleets of France and Spain . BRave Admiral Matthews has been on the Main with a true British heart against France & Spain Resolving to fight for Old England once more , And make them knock under before he gives oe'r , For there never was such a bold Fleet as they say , Sent out by Old England this many a Day . He had not been long on the Sea it is true , Before in Sighed , there appear'd in his View , Twenty eight Sail of the French and proud Spain , Who swiftly was Sailing along the Salt Main , Then he cry'd my brave Boys look see how they ride I hop [ e ] in small time we shall soon cool their Pride . We hoist our Sails and away then we went , With our Guns all ready and hearts likewise bent , Until that we come to the view of them all , Then strait our brave Admiral unto us did call , At the word of command to make ready with speed For I think the proud Donns , will fight us indeed . But the Wind prov'd contrary we could not pursue , Altho' that we had them so full in our view , And for to deceive us they did lay in wait , Thinking we should follow them up to the Straits , Yhough our good God was pleased to altar the wind , Yet Fortune unto us it proved unkind . There is and old Proverb I've lately thought on , When you think of a friend you're sure to find none , For when that I thought to see Lestock come by , he was 5 miles a distance & would not come nigh But for all that misfortune we never could start , We pursued after them with a true British Heart . A mile's distance next day they at us did fire , But in half and hour we to them drew nigher , Until that we came within Pistol Shot , Then we did let fly , and why should we not ; As we sent 'em one Broadside another did come , Which made our Cannons play , Bomb , bomb . Our Admiral took then his Glass in his hand , To espy what he could , as you shall understand , A double Shot came unto him so nigh , That it took off the place where his Arm did lie , But for that misfortune and all that foul play , We held 'em six hours in hight Battle that day . The night being come they straightway gave o'er and went off with their Cripples we see 'em no more but now that the War is proclaim'd against France when we see them again we'll make 'em to prance And if ever they into our presence do come , we'll make our Cannons play Britain strike home . Then straightway we left them in grief to complain , While we are Carousing along the Salt Main , Pray God bless our Fleet and his Majesty too , And grant them success wherever they go , Concluding as this and my Song to end , In Matthews brave Ship these Verses were penn'd . Admiral Matthews Engagement against the Come - bin'd Fleets of France and Spain . BRave Admiral Matthews has been on the Main with a true British heart against France & Spain Resolving to fight for Old England once more , And make them knock under before he gives oe'r , For there never was such a bold Fleet as they say , Sent out by Old England this many a Day . He had not been long on the Sea it is true , Before in Sighed , there appear'd in his View , Twenty eight Sail of the French and proud Spain , Who swiftly was Sailing along the Salt Main , Then he cry'd my brave Boys look see how they ride I hop [ e ] in small time we shall soon cool their Pride . We hoist our Sails and away then we went , With our Guns all ready and hearts likewise bent , Until that we come to the view of them all , Then strait our brave Admiral unto us did call , At the word of command to make ready with speed For I think the proud Donns , will fight us indeed . But the Wind prov'd contrary we could not pursue , Altho' that we had them so full in our view , And for to deceive us they did lay in wait , Thinking we should follow them up to the Straits , Yhough our good God was pleased to altar the wind , Yet Fortune unto us it proved unkind . There is and old Proverb I've lately thought on , When you think of a friend you're sure to find none , For when that I thought to see Lestock come by , he was 5 miles a distance & would not come nigh But for all that misfortune we never could start , We pursued after them with a true British Heart . A mile's distance next day they at us did fire , But in half and hour we to them drew nigher , Until that we came within Pistol Shot , Then we did let fly , and why should we not ; As we sent 'em one Broadside another did come , Which made our Cannons play , Bomb , bomb . Our Admiral took then his Glass in his hand , To espy what he could , as you shall understand , A double Shot came unto him so nigh , That it took off the place where his Arm did lie , But for that misfortune and all that foul play , We held 'em six hours in hight Battle that day . The night being come they straightway gave o'er and went off with their Cripples we see 'em no more but now that the War is proclaim'd against France when we see them again we'll make 'em to prance And if ever they into our presence do come , we'll make our Cannons play Britain strike home . Then straightway we left them in grief to complain , While we are Carousing along the Salt Main , Pray God bless our Fleet and his Majesty too , And grant them success wherever they go , Concluding as this and my Song to end , In Matthews brave Ship these Verses were penn'd . 