The Loving Girl's Invitation to a Young Sailor , in his Trousers . COme a Shore you jolly Tar , with your Trousers on , Come a Shore you jolly Tar , with your Trousers on , Come a Shore you jolly Tar , from on Board a Man of War , And kiss the bonny Lasses , with our Trousers on . We will walk by the Shore , while the Tide it comes in , If we meet with a bonny Lass , walking on the Sand , We will kiss her sweetly , with our Trousers on Will you stand to your Bargain , young Man she said , or no You promis'd for to marry me , a Twelvemonth ago , Will you stand to your Bargain , so now say , aye or no . A Bargain a Bargain the young Man he said , If I promis'd for to marry it was but for to try We'll call up our Witnesses , and hear them by and by . There's a Flower in the North for you young Man. If it had not been for shame , and to forfeit my good Name , I might have prov'd as false , as you have been young Man. Here's a Health to the Lad , with his Trousers on , And another to the Maid , that never was afraid , To kiss a bonny Lad , with his Trousers on . The Loving Girl's Invitation to a Young Sailor , in his Trousers . COme a Shore you jolly Tar , with your Trousers on , Come a Shore you jolly Tar , with your Trousers on , Come a Shore you jolly Tar , from on Board a Man of War , And kiss the bonny Lasses , with our Trousers on . We will walk by the Shore , while the Tide it comes in , If we meet with a bonny Lass , walking on the Sand , We will kiss her sweetly , with our Trousers on Will you stand to your Bargain , young Man she said , or no You promis'd for to marry me , a Twelvemonth ago , Will you stand to your Bargain , so now say , aye or no . A Bargain a Bargain the young Man he said , If I promis'd for to marry it was but for to try We'll call up our Witnesses , and hear them by and by . There's a Flower in the North for you young Man. If it had not been for shame , and to forfeit my good Name , I might have prov'd as false , as you have been young Man. Here's a Health to the Lad , with his Trousers on , And another to the Maid , that never was afraid , To kiss a bonny Lad , with his Trousers on . 