Two Excellent NEW SONGS . The Rakes of Stony Batter . COME all you roving Blades , That ramble thro' the City , Kissing pretty Maids , Listen to my Ditty , Our Time is coming on , When we will be merry Cato , Poll , and Nan . Will give us Sack and Sherry , Heigh for Bobbin Joan , Heigh for Stony Batter , Keep your Wife at Home , Or I will have at her . There's Bridget , Peg , and Nell , With Nancy , Doll , and Susan , To please their Sweethearts well , Sometime will go a boozing , When their Cash is gone , They'll hunt for a Cully , And bring their Splinter Home , To their beloved Bully . In Summer Lasses go , To the Fields a maying , Thro' the Meadows gay , With their Sweethearts playing ; Their smiling winning Ways , Shows for game their willing , Tho' Jenny she cries , nay She would not for a Shilling . Grafted your Apple Trees , Keep them clean of Water , Keep your Wife at Home , Or else I will be at her . Is your Apples ripe , Are they fit for plucking , Where's your Daughter Jane , Is she fit for humping . Have you sawn your Wheat , Is it ready put it , Is it almost ripe , Or is it fit for cutting ; Is your Corn dry , Is it fit for threshing , You may come and try , Kissing's all in Fashion . Go you cunning Knave , No more of Coax and Wheedle , By those Buttons in my Sleeve , I'll prick you with my Needle : What will you still be bold , Mammy call to this Man , For Shame , my Hands dont hold , I vow my Breath is just gone . Come all you Country Blades , And listen to my Ditty , I make no doubt at all , But this will make you merry : Is broke a fair Maid's Pawn , The Laws he has offended , All the Tinkers he can find , He cannot get it mended . There's Jenny Ling and Diver , Went to the Town a Walking , They went to a bowring Ken , To spend their Time in Courting ; There's Bobbing Joan and Die , Went to Bed together , All the Sport we had Was kissing one another . There's Joan a buxom Lass , Met with lusty Johnny , They went to take a Glass , He call'd her Dear and Honey ; She said you silly Clown , Take me round the Middle , Play me Bobbing Joan , Or else I'll break your Fiddle . He gently laid her down , And he pull'd out his Scraper , He play'd her such a Tune , As made her dance and caper : She said my dearest John , Your such a jolly Rover , My Gown and Cloak I'd pawn , That you would ne'er give over . Come let us take a Rome , Up to Stony Batter , Keep your Wife at Home , Else I will be at her , Heigh for Cakes and Ale , And heigh for Pretty Misses , That will never fail , For to crown our Wishes . Hey for Bobbing Joan. etc The Jolly Sailor . YOU jolly young Sailors that loves to delight In Whoring and Drinking both Day and Night ; Come listen to me and to you I'll unfold , As merry a Joke as ever was told . Poor Jack , in the Town , as I herd them say , Got very much drunk the other Day ; And so for his Pleasure as he thought to crown , He must ramble to pick up a Whore in Town . Poor Jack he was traveling thro' Drury Lane , At length to a painted Whore he came ; She finding him drunk and willing for Sport , Led him to a House , Boys , in Middlesex Court . This impudent Whore for Brandy did call , But alas ! poor Jack he must pay for it all ; For he fell fast a sleep in the Arms of his Punk , And he fell on the Ground being dead drunk . She finding him drunk and not like to awake , His Watch and his Money , she from him did take ? She stripp'd him Stark naked , and put him to Bed , And laid his Face close to a Whore that was dead . This Whore that was dead she had had the French Pox , She was twice salivated end died in the Flux ; Poor Jacky did lie in a poor lousy Bed , Nothing to embrace but a Whore that was dead . When he awaked and found this Surprise , He jump'd out of Bed , to his Neighbours he cries , My Watch , my Money , and Clothes they are gone , The Whore she is fled , I have no more to put on . With and old lousy Blanket that lay on the Bed , He wrapped it about him to cover his Head : Down into Wapping away he did go , With his Blanket about him , he cast a fine Show . Two Excellent NEW SONGS . The Rakes of Stony Batter . COME all you roving Blades , That ramble thro' the City , Kissing pretty Maids , Listen to my Ditty , Our Time is coming on , When we will be merry Cato , Poll , and Nan . Will give us Sack and Sherry , Heigh for Bobbin Joan , Heigh for Stony Batter , Keep your Wife at Home , Or I will have at her . There's Bridget , Peg , and Nell , With Nancy , Doll , and Susan , To please their Sweethearts well , Sometime will go a boozing , When their Cash is gone , They'll hunt for a Cully , And bring their Splinter Home , To their beloved Bully . In Summer Lasses go , To the Fields a maying , Thro' the Meadows gay , With their Sweethearts playing ; Their smiling winning Ways , Shows for game their willing , Tho' Jenny she cries , nay She would not for a Shilling . Grafted your Apple Trees , Keep them clean of Water , Keep your Wife at Home , Or else I will be at her . Is your Apples ripe , Are they fit for plucking , Where's your Daughter Jane , Is she fit for humping . Have you sawn your Wheat , Is it ready put it , Is it almost ripe , Or is it fit for cutting ; Is your Corn dry , Is it fit for threshing , You may come and try , Kissing's all in Fashion . Go you cunning Knave , No more of Coax and Wheedle , By those Buttons in my Sleeve , I'll prick you with my Needle : What will you still be bold , Mammy call to this Man , For Shame , my Hands dont hold , I vow my Breath is just gone . Come all you Country Blades , And listen to my Ditty , I make no doubt at all , But this will make you merry : Is broke a fair Maid's Pawn , The Laws he has offended , All the Tinkers he can find , He cannot get it mended . There's Jenny Ling and Diver , Went to the Town a Walking , They went to a bowring Ken , To spend their Time in Courting ; There's Bobbing Joan and Die , Went to Bed together , All the Sport we had Was kissing one another . There's Joan a buxom Lass , Met with lusty Johnny , They went to take a Glass , He call'd her Dear and Honey ; She said you silly Clown , Take me round the Middle , Play me Bobbing Joan , Or else I'll break your Fiddle . He gently laid her down , And he pull'd out his Scraper , He play'd her such a Tune , As made her dance and caper : She said my dearest John , Your such a jolly Rover , My Gown and Cloak I'd pawn , That you would ne'er give over . Come let us take a Rome , Up to Stony Batter , Keep your Wife at Home , Else I will be at her , Heigh for Cakes and Ale , And heigh for Pretty Misses , That will never fail , For to crown our Wishes . Hey for Bobbing Joan. etc The Jolly Sailor . YOU jolly young Sailors that loves to delight In Whoring and Drinking both Day and Night ; Come listen to me and to you I'll unfold , As merry a Joke as ever was told . Poor Jack , in the Town , as I herd them say , Got very much drunk the other Day ; And so for his Pleasure as he thought to crown , He must ramble to pick up a Whore in Town . Poor Jack he was traveling thro' Drury Lane , At length to a painted Whore he came ; She finding him drunk and willing for Sport , Led him to a House , Boys , in Middlesex Court . This impudent Whore for Brandy did call , But alas ! poor Jack he must pay for it all ; For he fell fast a sleep in the Arms of his Punk , And he fell on the Ground being dead drunk . She finding him drunk and not like to awake , His Watch and his Money , she from him did take ? She stripp'd him Stark naked , and put him to Bed , And laid his Face close to a Whore that was dead . This Whore that was dead she had had the French Pox , She was twice salivated end died in the Flux ; Poor Jacky did lie in a poor lousy Bed , Nothing to embrace but a Whore that was dead . When he awaked and found this Surprise , He jump'd out of Bed , to his Neighbours he cries , My Watch , my Money , and Clothes they are gone , The Whore she is fled , I have no more to put on . With and old lousy Blanket that lay on the Bed , He wrapped it about him to cover his Head : Down into Wapping away he did go , With his Blanket about him , he cast a fine Show . 