The Gloucestershire Tragedy . Or , The Unnatural Mother . BOTH young and old , I pray draw near , And tender parents that have children dear , Aare but a iittle time along with me , And you shall hear a dreadful tragedy . Dreadful enough it is , tho' certain true , I must confess the like I never knew . Even a heart of stone that does it hear , I'm sure that it will make them shed a tear . 'Twas at a place call'd Wells in Gloucestershire , Liv'd Mr. Gibbs , who had a daughter fair , All that he had in ten years by his wife , He was the joy and comfort of his life . This child she was but seven years of age , Those carriage did her father's heart engage , He doted on the ground that she did go , And 'twas no wonder that he lov'd her so . For charming features none could her excel , Of sweet behaviour , it is known full well . She had a temper affable and mild , And also was a most obedient child . And tho' with all these blessings she was grac'd , Her mother could not bear to see her face , Altho' her child , and from her body boar , And often would her mother's love implore . Sometime unto her mother she would say , Mamma , what makes you look so cross to day ? You don't seem pleas'd ; what is it I have done ? Then strait a slap or two from her would come . Out of her mother's sighed away she'd run , But never told her father what was done . She all her mother's blows with patience boar , Sure such a child was never known before . PART II BUT now comes on the dismal tragic part , Death having struck her father to the heart , A debt which all of us one time must pay , For when God pleases we must all obey . As stretched on his death bed he was laid , Unto his wife with fainting voice he said , Take care of my dear child when I am gone From this vain world , that none does wrong . And my estate , four thousand pounds a year , I leave you and my only daughter dear . Her portion let her have when she's of age , Pray for my sake observe what I have said . And if before that she to age should come , She die , then you enjoy your total sum ; Thy [ s ] is my will I have order'd it so , Both you and her I love , you well do know . But dearest friends that ever were must part , And so must we , which cuts me to the heart . But still I hope that we shall meet again , In Heaven above for ever to remain . Answer'd his wife , with a dissembling cry , Oh husband dear , could I but with you die , I freely could resign my breath ! No comfort can I find after your death . As for your will I freely shall obey , In all that you are pleas'd to order me , I will take care of her as you design'd . So never let such things disturb your mind . His thread of life now being almost spun , The child was call'd , who eagerly did run , In floods of tears did to her father say : Oh father dear , what is your will with me ? He answer'd , Child , long I cannot llve , So now my blessing to you I will give . His hands he tenderly laid on her head , And then these moving words to her he said , Pray God preserve , and send thee health and peace , And may thy mind in heavenly things increase . More he would speak to her , but cruel death Did put a stop , and took away his breath . A decent funeral for him was made , And when his body in the ground was laid , This child did in a tender way address Her mother , and these words she did express : PART III . DOWN on her bent knees said , Mother dear , I am sorry for your loss , I do declare . But still I think we ought not to complain , For our loss is my own father's gain . Remember that our blessed Saviour he Has promised our great comforter to be , He says , The widow's wants he will redress , And be a father to the fatherless . One more advantage , mother , you have still , My God's commands I promise to fulfil . You I likewise will honour and obey , In every thing you please to order me . These moving words still could not penetrate Into her wicked heart ; she still did hate This blessed child , who never deserv'd scorn , And often wish'd she never had been born . This wretch most covetous did prove so vile , She was resolv'd to murder her own child ; That she the whole estate might then enjoy . So all her thoughts on this she did employ . But first of all , I've some things to relate : A gentleman who had a vast estate , Came for to court the mother , and his suit She soon embrac'd without the least dispute . Altho' three weeks were hardly past and gone Since her husband's death , she thought it long , Ere her condition she alter'd once more , Which when this child knew it griev'd her soar . Soon as the gentleman was gone one day , Unto her cruel mother she did say , Mamma , this gentleman who comes to you , I hope he don't intend your love to sue . Yes , sure he does , and must your father be , How do you like him , quickly tell to me ? Not at all , mamma , the child reply'd , This not a month since my poor father dy'd . And can you so soon forget his death , When he lov'd you thus while he liv'd on earth ; Beside , mother , I have one thing to say , For you methinks he is too young and gay . At this her mother in a passion flew , Saying , Suppose he is , what's that to you ? The marriage-day is fix'd , you saucy jade , And for your insolence you shall be paid . PART IV. NOW for to conclude this barbarous deed , She did report it all about with speed , That her dear child was sick , and kept her bed . They little thinking what was in her head . She kept her child confin'd to her room , She little thought , dear child , of her wretched doom , This infant often would fit down and cry , Dear Lord , what means my mother's cruelty ? At last this wicked wretch contriv'd the deed , Having none in the house but just one maid . Whom she gave leave to go and see her friends . While she contriv'd to do her wicked ends . The maid being gone , she thought all was right , So to the child she went that very night . With a small dagger hid between her breast . 'Till she had done the deed she could not rest . With a dissemble said , Child , how do you do ? She said , Mamma , better to see you . My very heart does leap , mother , said she , That you do look so pleasantly on me . The dagger from her bosom then she drew , The child being startled , from her mother flew . She said , Hussy , I am come to end your days . The child answer'd , The Lord above be prais'd . But pray , dear mother , don't so hasty be ; Spare me a moment longer here to be . That you may hear some words I have to say . Then your commands Ill readily obey . I was surpriz'd , mother , when first you From your bosom the glittering dagger drew , But now I understand what you intend , It is to put my life in a blessed hand . Oh! it's for you , dear mother , that I grieve , Not for myself that I this world must leave . I valve not these baubles here on earth . Dear Lord , there's no repentance after death . Then on her bent knees she did fallen , And unto her heavenly God aloud did call . For to forgive her mother while on earth . Dear Lord , there's no repentance after death . These words might have turn'd a heart of led . But being tired , to the child she said , Pray how much time must I on you bestow ? She answer'd , I'll just pray , then give the blow . She having pray'd , her mother gave the wound . And as she lay bleeding on the ground , This child said , Mother tho' you ne'er lov'd me , I hope in heaven I your soul shall see . Thus spoke the lamb , and so clos'd up her eye . This harden'd wretch was not at all surpriz'd , But gave it out her daughter dear was dead , And in the ground she quickly had her laid . No one suspecting what this wretch had done , Thought she was safe . -- The maid coming home . Ask'd for the child ? but answer soon was made How she was dead , and in the grave was laid . At this the maid most bitterly did weep , And being vex'd in mind , she could not sleep . She lov'd the child entirely , 'tis sure . She never after could the house endure . PART V. BUT now comes on the closing of the scene Of cruelty , which God will never screen He was resolv'd to bring it unto light , And that it should be on the wedding night A splendid entertainment she had made , To entertain her wedding-guests , 'tis said . No cost was spar'd to crown their mutual joys , But this fine banquet quickly was destroy'd . As soon as at the table they set down , A glorious shining light did them surround . This blessed babe did in that The Gloucestershire Tragedy . Or , The Unnatural Mother . BOTH young and old , I pray draw near , And tender parents that have children dear , Aare but a iittle time along with me , And you shall hear a dreadful tragedy . Dreadful enough it is , tho' certain true , I must confess the like I never knew . Even a heart of stone that does it hear , I'm sure that it will make them shed a tear . 'Twas at a place call'd Wells in Gloucestershire , Liv'd Mr. Gibbs , who had a daughter fair , All that he had in ten years by his wife , He was the joy and comfort of his life . This child she was but seven years of age , Those carriage did her father's heart engage , He doted on the ground that she did go , And 'twas no wonder that he lov'd her so . For charming features none could her excel , Of sweet behaviour , it is known full well . She had a temper affable and mild , And also was a most obedient child . And tho' with all these blessings she was grac'd , Her mother could not bear to see her face , Altho' her child , and from her body boar , And often would her mother's love implore . Sometime unto her mother she would say , Mamma , what makes you look so cross to day ? You don't seem pleas'd ; what is it I have done ? Then strait a slap or two from her would come . Out of her mother's sighed away she'd run , But never told her father what was done . She all her mother's blows with patience boar , Sure such a child was never known before . PART II BUT now comes on the dismal tragic part , Death having struck her father to the heart , A debt which all of us one time must pay , For when God pleases we must all obey . As stretched on his death bed he was laid , Unto his wife with fainting voice he said , Take care of my dear child when I am gone From this vain world , that none does wrong . And my estate , four thousand pounds a year , I leave you and my only daughter dear . Her portion let her have when she's of age , Pray for my sake observe what I have said . And if before that she to age should come , She die , then you enjoy your total sum ; Thy [ s ] is my will I have order'd it so , Both you and her I love , you well do know . But dearest friends that ever were must part , And so must we , which cuts me to the heart . But still I hope that we shall meet again , In Heaven above for ever to remain . Answer'd his wife , with a dissembling cry , Oh husband dear , could I but with you die , I freely could resign my breath ! No comfort can I find after your death . As for your will I freely shall obey , In all that you are pleas'd to order me , I will take care of her as you design'd . So never let such things disturb your mind . His thread of life now being almost spun , The child was call'd , who eagerly did run , In floods of tears did to her father say : Oh father dear , what is your will with me ? He answer'd , Child , long I cannot llve , So now my blessing to you I will give . His hands he tenderly laid on her head , And then these moving words to her he said , Pray God preserve , and send thee health and peace , And may thy mind in heavenly things increase . More he would speak to her , but cruel death Did put a stop , and took away his breath . A decent funeral for him was made , And when his body in the ground was laid , This child did in a tender way address Her mother , and these words she did express : PART III . DOWN on her bent knees said , Mother dear , I am sorry for your loss , I do declare . But still I think we ought not to complain , For our loss is my own father's gain . Remember that our blessed Saviour he Has promised our great comforter to be , He says , The widow's wants he will redress , And be a father to the fatherless . One more advantage , mother , you have still , My God's commands I promise to fulfil . You I likewise will honour and obey , In every thing you please to order me . These moving words still could not penetrate Into her wicked heart ; she still did hate This blessed child , who never deserv'd scorn , And often wish'd she never had been born . This wretch most covetous did prove so vile , She was resolv'd to murder her own child ; That she the whole estate might then enjoy . So all her thoughts on this she did employ . But first of all , I've some things to relate : A gentleman who had a vast estate , Came for to court the mother , and his suit She soon embrac'd without the least dispute . Altho' three weeks were hardly past and gone Since her husband's death , she thought it long , Ere her condition she alter'd once more , Which when this child knew it griev'd her soar . Soon as the gentleman was gone one day , Unto her cruel mother she did say , Mamma , this gentleman who comes to you , I hope he don't intend your love to sue . Yes , sure he does , and must your father be , How do you like him , quickly tell to me ? Not at all , mamma , the child reply'd , This not a month since my poor father dy'd . And can you so soon forget his death , When he lov'd you thus while he liv'd on earth ; Beside , mother , I have one thing to say , For you methinks he is too young and gay . At this her mother in a passion flew , Saying , Suppose he is , what's that to you ? The marriage-day is fix'd , you saucy jade , And for your insolence you shall be paid . PART IV. NOW for to conclude this barbarous deed , She did report it all about with speed , That her dear child was sick , and kept her bed . They little thinking what was in her head . She kept her child confin'd to her room , She little thought , dear child , of her wretched doom , This infant often would fit down and cry , Dear Lord , what means my mother's cruelty ? At last this wicked wretch contriv'd the deed , Having none in the house but just one maid . Whom she gave leave to go and see her friends . While she contriv'd to do her wicked ends . The maid being gone , she thought all was right , So to the child she went that very night . With a small dagger hid between her breast . 'Till she had done the deed she could not rest . With a dissemble said , Child , how do you do ? She said , Mamma , better to see you . My very heart does leap , mother , said she , That you do look so pleasantly on me . The dagger from her bosom then she drew , The child being startled , from her mother flew . She said , Hussy , I am come to end your days . The child answer'd , The Lord above be prais'd . But pray , dear mother , don't so hasty be ; Spare me a moment longer here to be . That you may hear some words I have to say . Then your commands Ill readily obey . I was surpriz'd , mother , when first you From your bosom the glittering dagger drew , But now I understand what you intend , It is to put my life in a blessed hand . Oh! it's for you , dear mother , that I grieve , Not for myself that I this world must leave . I valve not these baubles here on earth . Dear Lord , there's no repentance after death . Then on her bent knees she did fallen , And unto her heavenly God aloud did call . For to forgive her mother while on earth . Dear Lord , there's no repentance after death . These words might have turn'd a heart of led . But being tired , to the child she said , Pray how much time must I on you bestow ? She answer'd , I'll just pray , then give the blow . She having pray'd , her mother gave the wound . And as she lay bleeding on the ground , This child said , Mother tho' you ne'er lov'd me , I hope in heaven I your soul shall see . Thus spoke the lamb , and so clos'd up her eye . This harden'd wretch was not at all surpriz'd , But gave it out her daughter dear was dead , And in the ground she quickly had her laid . No one suspecting what this wretch had done , Thought she was safe . -- The maid coming home . Ask'd for the child ? but answer soon was made How she was dead , and in the grave was laid . At this the maid most bitterly did weep , And being vex'd in mind , she could not sleep . She lov'd the child entirely , 'tis sure . She never after could the house endure . PART V. BUT now comes on the closing of the scene Of cruelty , which God will never screen He was resolv'd to bring it unto light , And that it should be on the wedding night A splendid entertainment she had made , To entertain her wedding-guests , 'tis said . No cost was spar'd to crown their mutual joys , But this fine banquet quickly was destroy'd . As soon as at the table they set down , A glorious shining light did them surround . This blessed babe did in the midst appear , Which struck them with horror and fear . Her precious blood did like crimson flow From her breast that look'd as white as snow . Her mother still undauntedly did fit , And ask'd her husband why he did not eat . But so surpriz'd he could no answer make , Nor any one that in the room sat . At last the apparition aloud did say , Repent , mother ; and so vanish'd away , Her guests they presently did go away , Out of the grave the child was took next day , And view'd by people that came far and near , For this sweet baby was shed many a tear . This bloody wretch was to prison sent , But does not seem as if she does repent . The shocking fact she stiffly does deny , But from just vengeance now she cannot fly . At Gloucester assize she will tried be , And also cast for this sad cruelty , Her punishment cannot be too severe , For spilling such innocent blood so dear . You covetous wretches that do hear her talk , I hope a warning it will be to all . Who for the sake of worldly wealth did kill Her precious infant , that never did ill . e midst appear , Which struck them with horror and fear . Her precious blood did like crimson flow From her breast that look'd as white as snow . Her mother still undauntedly did fit , And ask'd her husband why he did not eat . But so surpriz'd he could no answer make , Nor any one that in the room sat . At last the apparition aloud did say , Repent , mother ; and so vanish'd away , Her guests they presently did go away , Out of the grave the child was took next day , And view'd by people that came far and near , For this sweet baby was shed many a tear . This bloody wretch was to prison sent , But does not seem as if she does repent . The shocking fact she stiffly does deny , But from just vengeance now she cannot fly . At Gloucester assize she will tried be , And also cast for this sad cruelty , Her punishment cannot be too severe , For spilling such innocent blood so dear . You covetous wretches that do hear her talk , I hope a warning it will be to all . Who for the sake of worldly wealth did kill Her precious infant , that never did ill . 