And Excellent Ballad of the Lord MOHUN and Duke HAMILTON . With and Exact Account of their Melancholy Death's . COME all the people far and near , Of high and low degree ; Sad tidings I have brought you here , And therefore mourn with me . It was a sad unhappy chance , It was , I need must say ; Two Nobles great , in passion bent , Cast both their lives away . The one Duke Hamilton by name , The other brave Lord Mohun , Renowned men of birth and fame , But Oh they perish'd soon . Great men have god great daring souls , And vicious hearts likewise ; For from the glass and swimming bowls , Great quarrels do arise . Which often end with blood and death , Ne'er to return again : Life is but one short blast of breath , Here's two great Nobles slave . If men of honour did but know , That death would part their fray And lay theia lofty heads full low , 'Till the great Judgement day . They would their passion bridle sure , And not admit such strife ; But each one thinks himself secure , 'Till he's bereav'd of liife . It was a sad and sudden fallen , From grandeur unto death ; That these two Nobles here did fallen , And lost their mortal breath . It was a sad and sudden fate , That did the Queen surprise ; She has lost two brave subject's great , And they have lost their lives . Which might have serv'd the government , In many weighty things ; Which made them all with tears lament , That wrath such ruin brings . Alas ! alas ! I little thought Upon the other day , That blooming honour should be brought So soon to beds of clay . Instead of trumpets loud alarms , In courtly from likewise ; In death's cold joys , and frozen arms , This man of honour lies . Great men will not submissive take A quarrel from a friend , But strait they will a challenge make , And mortally attend . For satisfaction all in vain , They prize no less than life . And these two Nobles who were slave , Invade a mortal strife . Lord Mohun wounded Duke Hamilton , And would have then give o'er : The Duke reply'd he had not done , And pass'd at him once more . The sword quite thro' his body past , Immediately he fell ; And in Hide Park he breath'd his last , And bid the world farewell . The Duke was carry'd off , and dy'd Within a little while : All former feuds were laid aside , And death did end the broil . It was a great and sad surprise , When to his Lady he was brought , All bath'd in blood ; aloud she cries , Who has this fatal mischief wrought ? What bloody hand has done this deed ? Speak , if you can , my noble Lord ; Against his life I will proceed , He shall not miss of his reward . It was Lord Mohun , Lady , he cry'd , That first gave me this fatal wound ; Yet with my sword I'm satisfy'd , I left him breathless on the ground . It was a rash attempt , I own , But who can help what's done and passed ? Then with a sighs and dying groan , He in her presence breath'd his last . My little son of blooming youth , Thy father being dead and slave ; I bathe his corpse with weeping tears , Although I know them shed in vain . Dear son , now for thy father's sake , If thou livest to maturity , Such a rash challenge never make , But in sweet friendship live and die . Thou seest my eyelids overflown , Thy father's death afflicts me still , Unto my private room alone I'll go , and weeping take my fill . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , Bow-Lane , London . And Excellent Ballad of the Lord MOHUN and Duke HAMILTON . With and Exact Account of their Melancholy Death's . COME all the people far and near , Of high and low degree ; Sad tidings I have brought you here , And therefore mourn with me . It was a sad unhappy chance , It was , I need must say ; Two Nobles great , in passion bent , Cast both their lives away . The one Duke Hamilton by name , The other brave Lord Mohun , Renowned men of birth and fame , But Oh they perish'd soon . Great men have god great daring souls , And vicious hearts likewise ; For from the glass and swimming bowls , Great quarrels do arise . Which often end with blood and death , Ne'er to return again : Life is but one short blast of breath , Here's two great Nobles slave . If men of honour did but know , That death would part their fray And lay theia lofty heads full low , 'Till the great Judgement day . They would their passion bridle sure , And not admit such strife ; But each one thinks himself secure , 'Till he's bereav'd of liife . It was a sad and sudden fallen , From grandeur unto death ; That these two Nobles here did fallen , And lost their mortal breath . It was a sad and sudden fate , That did the Queen surprise ; She has lost two brave subject's great , And they have lost their lives . Which might have serv'd the government , In many weighty things ; Which made them all with tears lament , That wrath such ruin brings . Alas ! alas ! I little thought Upon the other day , That blooming honour should be brought So soon to beds of clay . Instead of trumpets loud alarms , In courtly from likewise ; In death's cold joys , and frozen arms , This man of honour lies . Great men will not submissive take A quarrel from a friend , But strait they will a challenge make , And mortally attend . For satisfaction all in vain , They prize no less than life . And these two Nobles who were slave , Invade a mortal strife . Lord Mohun wounded Duke Hamilton , And would have then give o'er : The Duke reply'd he had not done , And pass'd at him once more . The sword quite thro' his body past , Immediately he fell ; And in Hide Park he breath'd his last , And bid the world farewell . The Duke was carry'd off , and dy'd Within a little while : All former feuds were laid aside , And death did end the broil . It was a great and sad surprise , When to his Lady he was brought , All bath'd in blood ; aloud she cries , Who has this fatal mischief wrought ? What bloody hand has done this deed ? Speak , if you can , my noble Lord ; Against his life I will proceed , He shall not miss of his reward . It was Lord Mohun , Lady , he cry'd , That first gave me this fatal wound ; Yet with my sword I'm satisfy'd , I left him breathless on the ground . It was a rash attempt , I own , But who can help what's done and passed ? Then with a sighs and dying groan , He in her presence breath'd his last . My little son of blooming youth , Thy father being dead and slave ; I bathe his corpse with weeping tears , Although I know them shed in vain . Dear son , now for thy father's sake , If thou livest to maturity , Such a rash challenge never make , But in sweet friendship live and die . Thou seest my eyelids overflown , Thy father's death afflicts me still , Unto my private room alone I'll go , and weeping take my fill . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , Bow-Lane , London . 