Merry and Wise : COME hither my dutiful son , And take this good counsel of me , All follies endeavour to shun , That you so may prosperous be , In all the affairs of your life , That so you to riches may rise , Also in choosing of a wife , It is good to be merry and wise . Choose not for a great many pence , Among the fine , gaudy and gay , For a woman well furnish'd with sense , Is fifty times better than they . Here is one in her insolent pride , Perhaps in your calling despise , When the other will draw by your side , 'Tis good to be merry and wise . Be sure you draw both in a yoke , One hand , one heart and one purse , Each other prey never provoke , Lest your blessing should turn to a curse Be careful and kind to thy wife , And be not too soon disguis'd , Be sober and led a good life , It is good to be merry and wise . Some men they nothing will save , Like ragged extravagant elves , And it is their desire to have , Their neighbours as poor as themselves . Be careful and valve them not , To ruin they'll fallen while you rise , There is a good name to be god , For those that are merry and wise . Some men they scorn and deride Good men of industrious care , That do by their labour provide , Both food and apparel to wear , They strive by their malice and spleen , Like ragged wolves in disguise , We very well know what you mean , It is good to be merry and wise . I have been a father to you , And so I will be to your wife , Nothing shall be wanting of me , To the longest day of my life . If you will mend what is amiss And not my good counsel despise , Then I will conclude all with this , Dear son you'll be merry and wise . Merry and Wise : COME hither my dutiful son , And take this good counsel of me , All follies endeavour to shun , That you so may prosperous be , In all the affairs of your life , That so you to riches may rise , Also in choosing of a wife , It is good to be merry and wise . Choose not for a great many pence , Among the fine , gaudy and gay , For a woman well furnish'd with sense , Is fifty times better than they . Here is one in her insolent pride , Perhaps in your calling despise , When the other will draw by your side , 'Tis good to be merry and wise . Be sure you draw both in a yoke , One hand , one heart and one purse , Each other prey never provoke , Lest your blessing should turn to a curse Be careful and kind to thy wife , And be not too soon disguis'd , Be sober and led a good life , It is good to be merry and wise . Some men they nothing will save , Like ragged extravagant elves , And it is their desire to have , Their neighbours as poor as themselves . Be careful and valve them not , To ruin they'll fallen while you rise , There is a good name to be god , For those that are merry and wise . Some men they scorn and deride Good men of industrious care , That do by their labour provide , Both food and apparel to wear , They strive by their malice and spleen , Like ragged wolves in disguise , We very well know what you mean , It is good to be merry and wise . I have been a father to you , And so I will be to your wife , Nothing shall be wanting of me , To the longest day of my life . If you will mend what is amiss And not my good counsel despise , Then I will conclude all with this , Dear son you'll be merry and wise . 