A New SONG , concerning Two Games at Cards , play'd betwixt the King of England , King of France , and Queen of Spain ; showing the true Honour and Honesty of Old England against the Pretender . To a good TUNE . COME jolly Brittons and play your game at Whist , Keeping of France and Spain in a Missed , And play your Cards before they speak , I know this Game their Hearts will break , And ne'er Pretender undertake , To Rule England . The King of France joined with the Queen of Spain , Against the King of England , who plays the Dead Man , Knowing that neither King nor Queen , Can bang his Ace at Trumps unseen , With twelve of Suit which makes thirteen , Brave old England . Old England's the Game , cries Lewis unto Spain , Not thinking that Clubs would be Trumps on the Main , But finding the King of England's Hand , All of a Suit and at Command , I'm beggar'd quite cries Lewis Grand , By old England . The next Game was Put , Grand Lewis would play , To put in a King of his own by the way , But tho' he's all Legerdemain , He cannot get his King to Reign , Nor dare he come for being tak'n , By old England . He thought to get the first Trick by playing a Knave , And play'd him on Scotland King George to deceive , But having neither Duce nor Tray , He's thrown his Knave and Gold away , And lost his Game what e're he play , With old England . Then Britons rejoice , and let this be your Song , We'll corb the proud French , yes and likewise their Dons For if we fight , or if we play , I hope we still shall win the Day , And so God bless King George I say , And Old England . A New SONG , concerning Two Games at Cards , play'd betwixt the King of England , King of France , and Queen of Spain ; showing the true Honour and Honesty of Old England against the Pretender . To a good TUNE . COME jolly Brittons and play your game at Whist , Keeping of France and Spain in a Missed , And play your Cards before they speak , I know this Game their Hearts will break , And ne'er Pretender undertake , To Rule England . The King of France joined with the Queen of Spain , Against the King of England , who plays the Dead Man , Knowing that neither King nor Queen , Can bang his Ace at Trumps unseen , With twelve of Suit which makes thirteen , Brave old England . Old England's the Game , cries Lewis unto Spain , Not thinking that Clubs would be Trumps on the Main , But finding the King of England's Hand , All of a Suit and at Command , I'm beggar'd quite cries Lewis Grand , By old England . The next Game was Put , Grand Lewis would play , To put in a King of his own by the way , But tho' he's all Legerdemain , He cannot get his King to Reign , Nor dare he come for being tak'n , By old England . He thought to get the first Trick by playing a Knave , And play'd him on Scotland King George to deceive , But having neither Duce nor Tray , He's thrown his Knave and Gold away , And lost his Game what e're he play , With old England . Then Britons rejoice , and let this be your Song , We'll corb the proud French , yes and likewise their Dons For if we fight , or if we play , I hope we still shall win the Day , And so God bless King George I say , And Old England . 