THE Courtiers Health : OR , THE MERRY BOYS of the TIMES . He that loves Sack , does nothing lack , If he but Loyal be , He that deny's Bacchus supplies Shows mere Hypocrisy . To a new Tune , Come Boys fill us a Bumper , Or My Lodging is on the cold Ground . COme Boys fill us a Bumper , we'l make the Nation Roar , She's grown sick of a Rumper that sticks on the old Score . Pox on Phanatticks rout 'um , they thirst for our Blood , We'l Taxes raise without 'um , and Drink for the Nations Good , Fill the Pottles and Galons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Round around , fill a fresh One , let no Man bawk his Wine , We'l Drink to the next in Succession , and keep it in the Right Line . Bring us ten Thousand Glasses , the more we drink we'r a Dry , We mind not the Beautiful Lasses whose Conquest lies in the Eye . Charge the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen , a brimmer to the KING . We Boys are truly Loyal , for Charles we'l venture all , We know his Blood is Royal , his Name shall never fallen . But those that seek his Ruin may chance to die before him , While we that Sack are Woeing , for ever will adore him ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . I hate those Dissenters that strives to bawk a Glass , He that at all Adventures will see what comes to pass : And let the Popish Faction disturb us if they can , They ne'r shall breed Distraction in a true hearted Man. Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Let the Phanatticks grumble to see this cross their grain , We'l make them now more humble or ease them of their pain : They shall drink Sack amain too or else they shall be choak't , We'l tell 'um 'tis in vain too for us to be prowok't Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in We'l begin with a Tallen , a Brimmer to the KING He that denies the Brimmer shall banished be in this Isle , And we will look more grimmer till he begins to smile : We'l drown'd him in Canary and make him all our own , And when his Heart is merry he'l drink to Charles in's Thron ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Quakers and Anabaptists we'l sink them in glass , He deals most plain and flattest that says he loves a Lass : Then tumble down Canary and let your brains go round , For he that won't be merry he can't at heart be found ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Bimmer to the KING . THE Courtiers Health : OR , THE MERRY BOYS of the TIMES . He that loves Sack , does nothing lack , If he but Loyal be , He that deny's Bacchus supplies Shows mere Hypocrisy . To a new Tune , Come Boys fill us a Bumper , Or My Lodging is on the cold Ground . COme Boys fill us a Bumper , we'l make the Nation Roar , She's grown sick of a Rumper that sticks on the old Score . Pox on Phanatticks rout 'um , they thirst for our Blood , We'l Taxes raise without 'um , and Drink for the Nations Good , Fill the Pottles and Galons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Round around , fill a fresh One , let no Man bawk his Wine , We'l Drink to the next in Succession , and keep it in the Right Line . Bring us ten Thousand Glasses , the more we drink we'r a Dry , We mind not the Beautiful Lasses whose Conquest lies in the Eye . Charge the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen , a brimmer to the KING . We Boys are truly Loyal , for Charles we'l venture all , We know his Blood is Royal , his Name shall never fallen . But those that seek his Ruin may chance to die before him , While we that Sack are Woeing , for ever will adore him ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . I hate those Dissenters that strives to bawk a Glass , He that at all Adventures will see what comes to pass : And let the Popish Faction disturb us if they can , They ne'r shall breed Distraction in a true hearted Man. Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Let the Phanatticks grumble to see this cross their grain , We'l make them now more humble or ease them of their pain : They shall drink Sack amain too or else they shall be choak't , We'l tell 'um 'tis in vain too for us to be prowok't Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in We'l begin with a Tallen , a Brimmer to the KING He that denies the Brimmer shall banished be in this Isle , And we will look more grimmer till he begins to smile : We'l drown'd him in Canary and make him all our own , And when his Heart is merry he'l drink to Charles in's Thron ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Quakers and Anabaptists we'l sink them in glass , He deals most plain and flattest that says he loves a Lass : Then tumble down Canary and let your brains go round , For he that won't be merry he can't at heart be found ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Bimmer to the KING . 