THE Poor MAN's Counsellor ; OR , The Married MAN's Guide : If God hath blessed thee with a careful Wife , Take my Directions how to led thy Life ; Tho' Riches thou dost want , yet thou shalt find , Far greater Wealth in a contented Mind : Thy honest Labour shall thy Charge maintain , Being truly god , not by unlawful Gain . To the Tune of , The Poor Man's Comfort , etc COME Friend if thy Leisure Permit thee to stay , I'll teach thee some Precepts the same to obey , Now thou hast betaken thy self to a Wife , How thou may'st live happy all Days of thy Life , Then take my Directions , tho' thou art but poor , I'll learn thee to keep the Wolf from the Door . 'Tis not all Men's [ f ] ortune great Riches to have , And they that have little , have more need to save , For Riches have Wings and away they will fly , And leave them forsaken that once were so high , A little is better with Peace and Content , Than Wealth in abundance in misery spent . The Wealth of the World does too many bewitch , And they are to blame that make haste to be Rich , For Goods ill got like Snow-Balls do wast , And he that is Rich will be poor at the last ; Therefore be content with a lowly Degree , And God will provide in due Time you shall see . If thou hast a Wife that is loving and kind , Great Comfort in her at all Times thou wilt find , Whatever betide thee she will bear a share , And help to advice thee in Woe or Welfare , Then strive not her Patience at all to provoke , But freely Submit to draw both in one Yoke . A Wife that is froward I do not commend , What thou dost take Pains for she'll lavishly spend , And do what thou can'st for to humour her still , She'll hold thee in Scorn if she want of her Will , Make much of a Wife that is loving and chaste , For she will be saving and fearful to waste . Each Morning when thou dost thy Labour begin , Have God in thy Mind 'twill keep thee from since , A Penny hard earn'd , since it is thy Lot , Will do the more good than a Pound that's ill god ; Then labour to thrive , by the Sweat of thy Brows , For that's the best Way all honest Men knows . If God gives a Blessing that Children you have , The more you must labour in Times for to save , And do not you murmer and count them a Charge , The better you'll thrive , and your Stock will enlarge , 'Twill be of great Comfort thy Children to see , If that they obedient and dutiful be . Let no Man entice thee thy Money to waste , Be careful to spare and lay up what thou hast ; Whoever should ask thee , he is not thy Friend , To go to the Alehouse thy Money to spend , Avoid such bad Courses as bring Men to want , And thou shalt have plenty when others have Scant . Lewd Houses and Gaming be sure that you shun , There's many frequent them and so are undone : By such bad Companions a Man that's misled , May quickly be brought to a Morsel of Bred ; A Cup of good Liquour at Home with thy Wife , Will cheer up your Hearts , and prevent further Strife . Be courteous and kind to thy Neighbours about , And then they'll love thee thou need not to doubt , Avoid all Contention with Strife and Debate , For that would procure thee all honest Men's hate ; Be civil to all Men as they are to thee , Then kindly respected thou surely shalt be . If Times do prove hard , and Money be scant , Then labour for little before that you want , And thankfully take whatsoever God sends , As Times do grow better it will make amends , A Dinner of Herbs with content serves as well As all the rich Dainties which far does excel . When thou for thy Labour some Money has god , Be sure do not spend it in tossing the Pot , Make haste to thy Wife and Children small , And that will supply when they for Bred do call , 'Twould be a great Grief to thee while thou dost live , To hear thy Babies cry and have nothing to give . Whatever Affliction befall thee or thine , Yet do not thou murmer or seem to repine , For God that hath given the Means to subsist , Can take it away whensoever he list ; Therefore be contented whatever betide , Submit with all Patience and God will provide . Take to remember what here I have told , And valve it dearer than Silver or Gold ; When thou art inclined to wander astray , Perhaps it might bring thee into the right Way , And by thy Example all others may see , 'Tis good to be careful and live honestly . NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . THE Poor MAN's Counsellor ; OR , The Married MAN's Guide : If God hath blessed thee with a careful Wife , Take my Directions how to led thy Life ; Tho' Riches thou dost want , yet thou shalt find , Far greater Wealth in a contented Mind : Thy honest Labour shall thy Charge maintain , Being truly god , not by unlawful Gain . To the Tune of , The Poor Man's Comfort , etc COME Friend if thy Leisure Permit thee to stay , I'll teach thee some Precepts the same to obey , Now thou hast betaken thy self to a Wife , How thou may'st live happy all Days of thy Life , Then take my Directions , tho' thou art but poor , I'll learn thee to keep the Wolf from the Door . 'Tis not all Men's [ f ] ortune great Riches to have , And they that have little , have more need to save , For Riches have Wings and away they will fly , And leave them forsaken that once were so high , A little is better with Peace and Content , Than Wealth in abundance in misery spent . The Wealth of the World does too many bewitch , And they are to blame that make haste to be Rich , For Goods ill got like Snow-Balls do wast , And he that is Rich will be poor at the last ; Therefore be content with a lowly Degree , And God will provide in due Time you shall see . If thou hast a Wife that is loving and kind , Great Comfort in her at all Times thou wilt find , Whatever betide thee she will bear a share , And help to advice thee in Woe or Welfare , Then strive not her Patience at all to provoke , But freely Submit to draw both in one Yoke . A Wife that is froward I do not commend , What thou dost take Pains for she'll lavishly spend , And do what thou can'st for to humour her still , She'll hold thee in Scorn if she want of her Will , Make much of a Wife that is loving and chaste , For she will be saving and fearful to waste . Each Morning when thou dost thy Labour begin , Have God in thy Mind 'twill keep thee from since , A Penny hard earn'd , since it is thy Lot , Will do the more good than a Pound that's ill god ; Then labour to thrive , by the Sweat of thy Brows , For that's the best Way all honest Men knows . If God gives a Blessing that Children you have , The more you must labour in Times for to save , And do not you murmer and count them a Charge , The better you'll thrive , and your Stock will enlarge , 'Twill be of great Comfort thy Children to see , If that they obedient and dutiful be . Let no Man entice thee thy Money to waste , Be careful to spare and lay up what thou hast ; Whoever should ask thee , he is not thy Friend , To go to the Alehouse thy Money to spend , Avoid such bad Courses as bring Men to want , And thou shalt have plenty when others have Scant . Lewd Houses and Gaming be sure that you shun , There's many frequent them and so are undone : By such bad Companions a Man that's misled , May quickly be brought to a Morsel of Bred ; A Cup of good Liquour at Home with thy Wife , Will cheer up your Hearts , and prevent further Strife . Be courteous and kind to thy Neighbours about , And then they'll love thee thou need not to doubt , Avoid all Contention with Strife and Debate , For that would procure thee all honest Men's hate ; Be civil to all Men as they are to thee , Then kindly respected thou surely shalt be . If Times do prove hard , and Money be scant , Then labour for little before that you want , And thankfully take whatsoever God sends , As Times do grow better it will make amends , A Dinner of Herbs with content serves as well As all the rich Dainties which far does excel . When thou for thy Labour some Money has god , Be sure do not spend it in tossing the Pot , Make haste to thy Wife and Children small , And that will supply when they for Bred do call , 'Twould be a great Grief to thee while thou dost live , To hear thy Babies cry and have nothing to give . Whatever Affliction befall thee or thine , Yet do not thou murmer or seem to repine , For God that hath given the Means to subsist , Can take it away whensoever he list ; Therefore be contented whatever betide , Submit with all Patience and God will provide . Take to remember what here I have told , And valve it dearer than Silver or Gold ; When thou art inclined to wander astray , Perhaps it might bring thee into the right Way , And by thy Example all others may see , 'Tis good to be careful and live honestly . NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . 