The Horrid Murder Committed by Cap - tain Green and his Crew , on Captain Drum - mond and his whole Men , under design of Friendship by cutting off their Heads , and tying them back to back , and throwing them into the Sea , and sold their Ship unto the Indians . COme harken now unto my Song , and I will now relate , The terriblest Act that ever was known , either in Church or State ! By Captain Green , that murdering Man , but and his wicked Crew . For if that Man takes no reveange from Heaven he'l have his Endue . For murder it will not be hid , neither by Sea nor Land : For Heaven will it reveange we know , even with a heavy hand : Therefore repent you Murderers , of your most Bloody Crime Confess your Sins before the Lord , and Pardon seek of Him . This murder it was first found out , by Courting of a Lass , By George Hinds one of their Crew ; which after he denies ; And turns his tongue even from the same till that he was Condemn'd , Which he repenteth , now and says , that Green was not his friend ; And Lindseed too , one of their Crew ; declareth now in plain : With the Doctor and Bruckly also , how many their was Slave Madder he canno [ tO ] it deny , although his heart is Stout ; Desi [ r ] ing Green would not confess , that it might not come out . He to the Super Cargo spoke , desiring for to know . What came of Captain Drummonds ship ; and when they went them from ? Who telling him it was not long since they from them depart , But when he Drummonds clothes did see he had a heavy heart . The Doctor he declares the same , that he was then on Shore , And when he saw Blood on the Deck , he did it much abhoar , He asking what that Blood did mean ? of murdering Captain Green . He bade him look to his plaster box , that need not trouble him . This deed was done for ought we know upon the Indian shore , More Barbarous deed was never done , even by the Blackamoor ; To cut Men's throats in barbarous sorts , when they did them Invite , To drink a glass of Wine with them , Oh! a cruel Treat ? And tying some Men , back to back , and flang them in the Sea : Such terrible Act was never done . since Christianity : One Christian Brother another Kill , being neighbour Nation Men : No heathen , Turk , did ne're the like ; nor yet Barbarian : Now here I end my dreadful Song ; too terrible to relate : And wishes Scots Men may take care , of cruel Neighbours hate . Who Spitefully us treats we see , by Murdering Policy . Lord keep us from the like , we wish Scots Men of each degree . FINIS The Horrid Murder Committed by Cap - tain Green and his Crew , on Captain Drum - mond and his whole Men , under design of Friendship by cutting off their Heads , and tying them back to back , and throwing them into the Sea , and sold their Ship unto the Indians . COme harken now unto my Song , and I will now relate , The terriblest Act that ever was known , either in Church or State ! By Captain Green , that murdering Man , but and his wicked Crew . For if that Man takes no reveange from Heaven he'l have his Endue . For murder it will not be hid , neither by Sea nor Land : For Heaven will it reveange we know , even with a heavy hand : Therefore repent you Murderers , of your most Bloody Crime Confess your Sins before the Lord , and Pardon seek of Him . This murder it was first found out , by Courting of a Lass , By George Hinds one of their Crew ; which after he denies ; And turns his tongue even from the same till that he was Condemn'd , Which he repenteth , now and says , that Green was not his friend ; And Lindseed too , one of their Crew ; declareth now in plain : With the Doctor and Bruckly also , how many their was Slave Madder he canno [ tO ] it deny , although his heart is Stout ; Desi [ r ] ing Green would not confess , that it might not come out . He to the Super Cargo spoke , desiring for to know . What came of Captain Drummonds ship ; and when they went them from ? Who telling him it was not long since they from them depart , But when he Drummonds clothes did see he had a heavy heart . The Doctor he declares the same , that he was then on Shore , And when he saw Blood on the Deck , he did it much abhoar , He asking what that Blood did mean ? of murdering Captain Green . He bade him look to his plaster box , that need not trouble him . This deed was done for ought we know upon the Indian shore , More Barbarous deed was never done , even by the Blackamoor ; To cut Men's throats in barbarous sorts , when they did them Invite , To drink a glass of Wine with them , Oh! a cruel Treat ? And tying some Men , back to back , and flang them in the Sea : Such terrible Act was never done . since Christianity : One Christian Brother another Kill , being neighbour Nation Men : No heathen , Turk , did ne're the like ; nor yet Barbarian : Now here I end my dreadful Song ; too terrible to relate : And wishes Scots Men may take care , of cruel Neighbours hate . Who Spitefully us treats we see , by Murdering Policy . Lord keep us from the like , we wish Scots Men of each degree . FINIS 