The Bloody GARDENER's Cruelty ; Or , The Shepherd's Daughter betray'd . COME all you constant lovers , and to me lend and ear , And mind this sad relation , which I do give you here : [ I ] tO is of a maiden fair , a Shepherd's daughter dear ; But love did prove her utter overthrow . She was of beauteous mould , fair and clear to behold . And by a noble lord she courted were , But was too young , we find , as yet found love to mind ; Yet little Cupid did her heart ensnare . His parents they were all of high degree , They said , She is no match at all for thee If you our blessing have , grant us but what we crave , And wed with none but whom we shall agree . Dear son , for you we have chosen out a bride , With store of gold and beautiful beside ; Of a temper kind and free , she is the girl for me , But not a Shepherd's daughter of mean degree , And if by us you'll not be ruled or led , You from our presence shall be banished : No more we will you own , to be our only son : Then le [ tO ] our will be done , to end the strife , Madam , said he if a begging I should go , I should be well contented so to do , [ I ] f that I could but have the girl that I do crave , No cursed gold should part my love and me . Was she as poor as Job , and I of royal robe , And lord of all the globe she should be mine , His mother said in scorn , Thou art most nobly born , And with a beggar's brat shall never join , He hearing of his mother to say so , His eyes did then with tears like fountains flow ; Saying , a promise I have made , and her heart betray'd , Therefore no other for my bride I choose . A cruel snare then for her life she laid , And for to act this thing , o ! then she did , With her Gardener she agreed , to do the bloody deed And butcher her forthwith , and dig her grave . To the Bloody Gardener she gave forescore pounds . To murder her and lay her under ground , All in a grave so deep , in everlasting sleep , Hoping her fair body would not be found . She wrote a letter , and sent it with speed ; Saying , My dearest , with haste now proceed , Meet me this night , I've something to declare . Poor girl , she little thought upon the deed . The youthful shepherdess of this nothing knew , But went to meet her true love as she used to do : She search'd the garden all around , but no true love she found . At length the Bloody Gardener did appear . Whatsi unness have you here , madam , I pray ? Are you come here to rob the garden gay ? Cries she , No thief I am , but wait for that youngman , Who did this night appoint to meet me here . He spoke no more , but strait a knife he took , And pierc'd her heart before one word she spoke , Then on the ground she fell , crying , Sweet love , farewell . O welcome , welcome , Death , thy fatal stroke . Was this done now , my dear ; by your design ? Or by your cruel parents most unkind , My life is thus betray'd ? -- farewell vain world , she said , I hope in heaven I a place shall find , But when he see her life was really gone , Immediately he lay'd her in the ground , With flowers fine and gay her corpse did overlay , [ I ] ntending that her body should not be found . Now all the time this lord he nothing knew , But went to meet his true love as he used to do , He search'd the valleys round , but no true love he found The little lambs went wandering to and fro' Lamemting greatly for their shepherdess Then he did lay him down upon the grass . The heavens he did implore , to see his love once more , Oh! then , you Gods above , I am surely blessed , Oh! whither shall I seek that angel bright ? Who is alone my pleasure and deligh prey , if alive she be , let me my true love see , Or else my soul will quickly take its flight . Whereat the woods and groves began to mourn ; The small birds they did sing a mournful tune , Crying , Your love is gone , and you left quite alone , Then on a mossy bank he laid him down . He had no sooner clos'd his eyes to sleep , But a milkwhite dove came to his breast , Her fluttering wings did beatrice , which wak'd him out of sleep , And then the dove took wing , and he was blessed , To this mother's garden strait he did repair , For to bemoan the loss of his own dear , Here the dove once more he seas , sat on a myrtle tree , With dropping wings disconsolate she did appear , Oh! dove disconsolate , why do you come ? Have you not lost your love , as I have done ? That you do doge me here , no comfort can I bear . Then thus the dove replied , and then flew down , Saying it was your mother order'd it so . Then from her milk white breast the blood did flow . To the grove he did repair , but found no true love there , Homeward then to his mother he did go . And said , Mother most cruel and severe , I fear you've kill'd my joy and only dear : For a dove , I do declare , did all in blood appear , He said , if she is dead , her fate I'll share . His mother hearing what the son did say , She turn'd as pale as death and swoon'd away : Then into distraction run , and told what she had done ; And where the virgin's body it then lay . He said no more , but straitways took a knife , And said , Farewell to the comfort of my life , Then into the garden flew and pierc'd his body thro' And said , It was cursed gold caused all this strife . These loyal lovers in one tomb were laid , And many a briny tear for them was shed , And the Gardener , as we hear , was apprehended there , And hang'd in chains for being so severe , Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Aldermary Church Yard , London . The Bloody GARDENER's Cruelty ; Or , The Shepherd's Daughter betray'd . COME all you constant lovers , and to me lend and ear , And mind this sad relation , which I do give you here : [ I ] tO is of a maiden fair , a Shepherd's daughter dear ; But love did prove her utter overthrow . She was of beauteous mould , fair and clear to behold . And by a noble lord she courted were , But was too young , we find , as yet found love to mind ; Yet little Cupid did her heart ensnare . His parents they were all of high degree , They said , She is no match at all for thee If you our blessing have , grant us but what we crave , And wed with none but whom we shall agree . Dear son , for you we have chosen out a bride , With store of gold and beautiful beside ; Of a temper kind and free , she is the girl for me , But not a Shepherd's daughter of mean degree , And if by us you'll not be ruled or led , You from our presence shall be banished : No more we will you own , to be our only son : Then le [ tO ] our will be done , to end the strife , Madam , said he if a begging I should go , I should be well contented so to do , [ I ] f that I could but have the girl that I do crave , No cursed gold should part my love and me . Was she as poor as Job , and I of royal robe , And lord of all the globe she should be mine , His mother said in scorn , Thou art most nobly born , And with a beggar's brat shall never join , He hearing of his mother to say so , His eyes did then with tears like fountains flow ; Saying , a promise I have made , and her heart betray'd , Therefore no other for my bride I choose . A cruel snare then for her life she laid , And for to act this thing , o ! then she did , With her Gardener she agreed , to do the bloody deed And butcher her forthwith , and dig her grave . To the Bloody Gardener she gave forescore pounds . To murder her and lay her under ground , All in a grave so deep , in everlasting sleep , Hoping her fair body would not be found . She wrote a letter , and sent it with speed ; Saying , My dearest , with haste now proceed , Meet me this night , I've something to declare . Poor girl , she little thought upon the deed . The youthful shepherdess of this nothing knew , But went to meet her true love as she used to do : She search'd the garden all around , but no true love she found . At length the Bloody Gardener did appear . Whatsi unness have you here , madam , I pray ? Are you come here to rob the garden gay ? Cries she , No thief I am , but wait for that youngman , Who did this night appoint to meet me here . He spoke no more , but strait a knife he took , And pierc'd her heart before one word she spoke , Then on the ground she fell , crying , Sweet love , farewell . O welcome , welcome , Death , thy fatal stroke . Was this done now , my dear ; by your design ? Or by your cruel parents most unkind , My life is thus betray'd ? -- farewell vain world , she said , I hope in heaven I a place shall find , But when he see her life was really gone , Immediately he lay'd her in the ground , With flowers fine and gay her corpse did overlay , [ I ] ntending that her body should not be found . Now all the time this lord he nothing knew , But went to meet his true love as he used to do , He search'd the valleys round , but no true love he found The little lambs went wandering to and fro' Lamemting greatly for their shepherdess Then he did lay him down upon the grass . The heavens he did implore , to see his love once more , Oh! then , you Gods above , I am surely blessed , Oh! whither shall I seek that angel bright ? Who is alone my pleasure and deligh prey , if alive she be , let me my true love see , Or else my soul will quickly take its flight . Whereat the woods and groves began to mourn ; The small birds they did sing a mournful tune , Crying , Your love is gone , and you left quite alone , Then on a mossy bank he laid him down . He had no sooner clos'd his eyes to sleep , But a milkwhite dove came to his breast , Her fluttering wings did beatrice , which wak'd him out of sleep , And then the dove took wing , and he was blessed , To this mother's garden strait he did repair , For to bemoan the loss of his own dear , Here the dove once more he seas , sat on a myrtle tree , With dropping wings disconsolate she did appear , Oh! dove disconsolate , why do you come ? Have you not lost your love , as I have done ? That you do doge me here , no comfort can I bear . Then thus the dove replied , and then flew down , Saying it was your mother order'd it so . Then from her milk white breast the blood did flow . To the grove he did repair , but found no true love there , Homeward then to his mother he did go . And said , Mother most cruel and severe , I fear you've kill'd my joy and only dear : For a dove , I do declare , did all in blood appear , He said , if she is dead , her fate I'll share . His mother hearing what the son did say , She turn'd as pale as death and swoon'd away : Then into distraction run , and told what she had done ; And where the virgin's body it then lay . He said no more , but straitways took a knife , And said , Farewell to the comfort of my life , Then into the garden flew and pierc'd his body thro' And said , It was cursed gold caused all this strife . These loyal lovers in one tomb were laid , And many a briny tear for them was shed , And the Gardener , as we hear , was apprehended there , And hang'd in chains for being so severe , Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Aldermary Church Yard , London . The Bloody GARDENER's Cruelty ; Or , The Shepherd's Daughter betray'd . COME all you constant lovers , and to me lend and ear , And mind this sad relation , which I do give you here : [ I ] tO is of a maiden fair , a Shepherd's daughter dear ; But love did prove her utter overthrow . She was of beauteous mould , fair and clear to behold . And by a noble lord she courted were , But was too young , we find , as yet found love to mind ; Yet little Cupid did her heart ensnare . His parents they were all of high degree , They said , She is no match at all for thee If you our blessing have , grant us but what we crave , And wed with none but whom we shall agree . Dear son , for you we have chosen out a bride , With store of gold and beautiful beside ; Of a temper kind and free , she is the girl for me , But not a Shepherd's daughter of mean degree , And if by us you'll not be ruled or led , You from our presence shall be banished : No more we will you own , to be our only son : Then le [ tO ] our will be done , to end the strife , Madam , said he if a begging I should go , I should be well contented so to do , [ I ] f that I could but have the girl that I do crave , No cursed gold should part my love and me . Was she as poor as Job , and I of royal robe , And lord of all the globe she should be mine , His mother said in scorn , Thou art most nobly born , And with a beggar's brat shall never join , He hearing of his mother to say so , His eyes did then with tears like fountains flow ; Saying , a promise I have made , and her heart betray'd , Therefore no other for my bride I choose . A cruel snare then for her life she laid , And for to act this thing , o ! then she did , With her Gardener she agreed , to do the bloody deed And butcher her forthwith , and dig her grave . To the Bloody Gardener she gave forescore pounds . To murder her and lay her under ground , All in a grave so deep , in everlasting sleep , Hoping her fair body would not be found . She wrote a letter , and sent it with speed ; Saying , My dearest , with haste now proceed , Meet me this night , I've something to declare . Poor girl , she little thought upon the deed . The youthful shepherdess of this nothing knew , But went to meet her true love as she used to do : She search'd the garden all around , but no true love she found . At length the Bloody Gardener did appear . Whatsi unness have you here , madam , I pray ? Are you come here to rob the garden gay ? Cries she , No thief I am , but wait for that youngman , Who did this night appoint to meet me here . He spoke no more , but strait a knife he took , And pierc'd her heart before one word she spoke , Then on the ground she fell , crying , Sweet love , farewell . O welcome , welcome , Death , thy fatal stroke . Was this done now , my dear ; by your design ? Or by your cruel parents most unkind , My life is thus betray'd ? -- farewell vain world , she said , I hope in heaven I a place shall find , But when he see her life was really gone , Immediately he lay'd her in the ground , With flowers fine and gay her corpse did overlay , [ I ] ntending that her body should not be found . Now all the time this lord he nothing knew , But went to meet his true love as he used to do , He search'd the valleys round , but no true love he found The little lambs went wandering to and fro' Lamemting greatly for their shepherdess Then he did lay him down upon the grass . The heavens he did implore , to see his love once more , Oh! then , you Gods above , I am surely blessed , Oh! whither shall I seek that angel bright ? Who is alone my pleasure and deligh prey , if alive she be , let me my true love see , Or else my soul will quickly take its flight . Whereat the woods and groves began to mourn ; The small birds they did sing a mournful tune , Crying , Your love is gone , and you left quite alone , Then on a mossy bank he laid him down . He had no sooner clos'd his eyes to sleep , But a milkwhite dove came to his breast , Her fluttering wings did beatrice , which wak'd him out of sleep , And then the dove took wing , and he was blessed , To this mother's garden strait he did repair , For to bemoan the loss of his own dear , Here the dove once more he seas , sat on a myrtle tree , With dropping wings disconsolate she did appear , Oh! dove disconsolate , why do you come ? Have you not lost your love , as I have done ? That you do doge me here , no comfort can I bear . Then thus the dove replied , and then flew down , Saying it was your mother order'd it so . Then from her milk white breast the blood did flow . To the grove he did repair , but found no true love there , Homeward then to his mother he did go . And said , Mother most cruel and severe , I fear you've kill'd my joy and only dear : For a dove , I do declare , did all in blood appear , He said , if she is dead , her fate I'll share . His mother hearing what the son did say , She turn'd as pale as death and swoon'd away : Then into distraction run , and told what she had done ; And where the virgin's body it then lay . He said no more , but straitways took a knife , And said , Farewell to the comfort of my life , Then into the garden flew and pierc'd his body thro' And said , It was cursed gold caused all this strife . These loyal lovers in one tomb were laid , And many a briny tear for them was shed , And the Gardener , as we hear , was apprehended there , And hang'd in chains for being so severe , Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Aldermary Church Yard , London . The Bloody GARDENER's Cruelty ; Or , The Shepherd's Daughter betray'd . COME all you constant lovers , and to me lend and ear , And mind this sad relation , which I do give you here : [ I ] tO is of a maiden fair , a Shepherd's daughter dear ; But love did prove her utter overthrow . She was of beauteous mould , fair and clear to behold . And by a noble lord she courted were , But was too young , we find , as yet found love to mind ; Yet little Cupid did her heart ensnare . His parents they were all of high degree , They said , She is no match at all for thee If you our blessing have , grant us but what we crave , And wed with none but whom we shall agree . Dear son , for you we have chosen out a bride , With store of gold and beautiful beside ; Of a temper kind and free , she is the girl for me , But not a Shepherd's daughter of mean degree , And if by us you'll not be ruled or led , You from our presence shall be banished : No more we will you own , to be our only son : Then le [ tO ] our will be done , to end the strife , Madam , said he if a begging I should go , I should be well contented so to do , [ I ] f that I could but have the girl that I do crave , No cursed gold should part my love and me . Was she as poor as Job , and I of royal robe , And lord of all the globe she should be mine , His mother said in scorn , Thou art most nobly born , And with a beggar's brat shall never join , He hearing of his mother to say so , His eyes did then with tears like fountains flow ; Saying , a promise I have made , and her heart betray'd , Therefore no other for my bride I choose . A cruel snare then for her life she laid , And for to act this thing , o ! then she did , With her Gardener she agreed , to do the bloody deed And butcher her forthwith , and dig her grave . To the Bloody Gardener she gave forescore pounds . To murder her and lay her under ground , All in a grave so deep , in everlasting sleep , Hoping her fair body would not be found . She wrote a letter , and sent it with speed ; Saying , My dearest , with haste now proceed , Meet me this night , I've something to declare . Poor girl , she little thought upon the deed . The youthful shepherdess of this nothing knew , But went to meet her true love as she used to do : She search'd the garden all around , but no true love she found . At length the Bloody Gardener did appear . Whatsi unness have you here , madam , I pray ? Are you come here to rob the garden gay ? Cries she , No thief I am , but wait for that youngman , Who did this night appoint to meet me here . He spoke no more , but strait a knife he took , And pierc'd her heart before one word she spoke , Then on the ground she fell , crying , Sweet love , farewell . O welcome , welcome , Death , thy fatal stroke . Was this done now , my dear ; by your design ? Or by your cruel parents most unkind , My life is thus betray'd ? -- farewell vain world , she said , I hope in heaven I a place shall find , But when he see her life was really gone , Immediately he lay'd her in the ground , With flowers fine and gay her corpse did overlay , [ I ] ntending that her body should not be found . Now all the time this lord he nothing knew , But went to meet his true love as he used to do , He search'd the valleys round , but no true love he found The little lambs went wandering to and fro' Lamemting greatly for their shepherdess Then he did lay him down upon the grass . The heavens he did implore , to see his love once more , Oh! then , you Gods above , I am surely blessed , Oh! whither shall I seek that angel bright ? Who is alone my pleasure and deligh prey , if alive she be , let me my true love see , Or else my soul will quickly take its flight . Whereat the woods and groves began to mourn ; The small birds they did sing a mournful tune , Crying , Your love is gone , and you left quite alone , Then on a mossy bank he laid him down . He had no sooner clos'd his eyes to sleep , But a milkwhite dove came to his breast , Her fluttering wings did beatrice , which wak'd him out of sleep , And then the dove took wing , and he was blessed , To this mother's garden strait he did repair , For to bemoan the loss of his own dear , Here the dove once more he seas , sat on a myrtle tree , With dropping wings disconsolate she did appear , Oh! dove disconsolate , why do you come ? Have you not lost your love , as I have done ? That you do doge me here , no comfort can I bear . Then thus the dove replied , and then flew down , Saying it was your mother order'd it so . Then from her milk white breast the blood did flow . To the grove he did repair , but found no true love there , Homeward then to his mother he did go . And said , Mother most cruel and severe , I fear you've kill'd my joy and only dear : For a dove , I do declare , did all in blood appear , He said , if she is dead , her fate I'll share . His mother hearing what the son did say , She turn'd as pale as death and swoon'd away : Then into distraction run , and told what she had done ; And where the virgin's body it then lay . He said no more , but straitways took a knife , And said , Farewell to the comfort of my life , Then into the garden flew and pierc'd his body thro' And said , It was cursed gold caused all this strife . These loyal lovers in one tomb were laid , And many a briny tear for them was shed , And the Gardener , as we hear , was apprehended there , And hang'd in chains for being so severe , Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Aldermary Church Yard , London . 