The STORM , Or the , Dangers of the Sea CEase rude boreas blustering railer , List you landsmen all to me , Mess-mates hear a Brother Sailor , Sing the dangers of the sea , From bounding billows , first in motion When the distant Whirlwinds rise , To the tempest troubled ocean , Where the seas contend with skies . Hark the Boatswa [ i ] n hearsly bawling . By topsail-sheets , and haulyards stand , Down top gallants quick be hauling , Down your stay-sails , hand boys , Now it freshens , set the braces , The top sail-sheets , now let go . Luff , boys luff , don't make wry faces . Up your topsails nimbly clew . Now all you on , down beds sporting , Fondly lock'd in beauty's arms ; Fresh enjoyments , wanton courting . Safe from all but love's alarms ; Round us roars the tempest louder ; Think what fears our minds enthral , Harder yet , it yet blows harder , Now again the boatswain calls ! The topsail yards point to the wind boys , See all clear to reef each course , Let the foresheet go , don't mind boys . Tho' the weather should be worse . Foe [ r ] e and aft the spritsail yard get , Reef the mizzen , see all clear , Hands up , each preventer brace , set , Man the foreyard , cheer , lads , cheer Now the dreadful thunder roaring , Peal , on peal contending clash , On our heads fierce rain falls pouring In our eyes blue lightning flash One wide water all around us , All above us one black sky , Defferent death's at once surround us Hark , what means that dreadful cry . The foremast's gone ! cries every tongue out , O'er the lee , twelve feet 'bove deck ; A leak beneath the chest tree's sprung out , Call all hands to clear the wreck . Quick the lanyards cut to pieces , Come my hearts be stout and bold ; Plumb the well , the leak increases , Four feet water in the hold . While o'er the ship , wild waves are beating . We for wives , or children mourn ; Alas , from hence there's no rest [ r ] eating . Alas , from hence there's no turn . Still the leak is gaining on us , Both chain , pumps are choak'd below : Heav'n have mercy here upon us For only that can save us now . O'er the lee beam is the land boys , Let the guns o'er board be thrown . To the pump come ev'ry hand boys : See our mizzen mast is gone . The leak we've found , i [ tO ] cant pour fast , We've lighten'd her a foot or more Up and rig a jury foremast , She rights , she rights , boys , wear off shore Now once more on joys we're thinking Since kind fortune sav'd our lives ; Come , the can boys , let's be drinking . To our sweet hearts and our wives , Fill it up about ship wheel it , Close to our lips a brimmer join . Where's the tempest now , who feels it , Now , the danger's drown in wine . The STORM , Or the , Dangers of the Sea CEase rude boreas blustering railer , List you landsmen all to me , Mess-mates hear a Brother Sailor , Sing the dangers of the sea , From bounding billows , first in motion When the distant Whirlwinds rise , To the tempest troubled ocean , Where the seas contend with skies . Hark the Boatswa [ i ] n hearsly bawling . By topsail-sheets , and haulyards stand , Down top gallants quick be hauling , Down your stay-sails , hand boys , Now it freshens , set the braces , The top sail-sheets , now let go . Luff , boys luff , don't make wry faces . Up your topsails nimbly clew . Now all you on , down beds sporting , Fondly lock'd in beauty's arms ; Fresh enjoyments , wanton courting . Safe from all but love's alarms ; Round us roars the tempest louder ; Think what fears our minds enthral , Harder yet , it yet blows harder , Now again the boatswain calls ! The topsail yards point to the wind boys , See all clear to reef each course , Let the foresheet go , don't mind boys . Tho' the weather should be worse . Foe [ r ] e and aft the spritsail yard get , Reef the mizzen , see all clear , Hands up , each preventer brace , set , Man the foreyard , cheer , lads , cheer Now the dreadful thunder roaring , Peal , on peal contending clash , On our heads fierce rain falls pouring In our eyes blue lightning flash One wide water all around us , All above us one black sky , Defferent death's at once surround us Hark , what means that dreadful cry . The foremast's gone ! cries every tongue out , O'er the lee , twelve feet 'bove deck ; A leak beneath the chest tree's sprung out , Call all hands to clear the wreck . Quick the lanyards cut to pieces , Come my hearts be stout and bold ; Plumb the well , the leak increases , Four feet water in the hold . While o'er the ship , wild waves are beating . We for wives , or children mourn ; Alas , from hence there's no rest [ r ] eating . Alas , from hence there's no turn . Still the leak is gaining on us , Both chain , pumps are choak'd below : Heav'n have mercy here upon us For only that can save us now . O'er the lee beam is the land boys , Let the guns o'er board be thrown . To the pump come ev'ry hand boys : See our mizzen mast is gone . The leak we've found , i [ tO ] cant pour fast , We've lighten'd her a foot or more Up and rig a jury foremast , She rights , she rights , boys , wear off shore Now once more on joys we're thinking Since kind fortune sav'd our lives ; Come , the can boys , let's be drinking . To our sweet hearts and our wives , Fill it up about ship wheel it , Close to our lips a brimmer join . Where's the tempest now , who feels it , Now , the danger's drown in wine . 