THE WINCHESTER WEDDING : OR , Ralph of Reading , and Black Bess of the Green . Tune ---- The King's Jig . AT Winchester there was a Wedding The like was never seen , 'Twixt lusty Ralph of Reading , And bonny Black Bess of the Green ; The fiddlers were crowding before , Each lass was as fine as a Queen , There was and hundred and more , For all the whole country came in . Brisk Robin led Rose so fair , She look'd like a lily i'th' vale , And ruddy fac'd Harry led Mary , And Roger led bouncing Nell . With Tommy came smiling Katy , He helped her over a style , And swore there was none so pretty In forty and forty long miles . Kit gave a green gown to Betty , And lent her his hand to rise ; But Jenny was jeer'd by Watty , For looking blue under the eyes . Thus merrily chatting all day , They passed to the bride house along , With Johnny and pretty fac'd Nany , The fairest of all the throng . The bridegroom came out to meet 'em , Afraid the dinner was spoil'd , And usher'd them in to treat 'em With bak'd , and roast , and boil'd , The lads were frolic and jolly , For each lad his lass by his side , But Willy was melancholy , For he had a mind to the bride , Then Philip began her health , And turn'd a beer-glass on his thumb , But Jenkin was reckon'd for drinking , The best in Christendom . And now they had dined , advancing Into the midst of the hall , The fiddlers struck for dancing , And Jeremy led up the ball . But Margery kept her quarter , A lass that was proud of her pelf , 'Cause Arthur had stolen her garter , And swore he would tie it himself ; She struggl'd , she blush'd and frown'd , And ready with anger to cry , 'Cause Arthur in tying her garter Had slipped his hand too high . And now for throwing the stocking , The bride away was led , The bridegroom god drunk , and was knocking For candles to light them to-bed . But Robin , who found him so silly , Most kindly took him aside , While that his wife with Willy Was playing at hooper's hide . And now the warm game begins , The critical minute was come , And chatting , and billing and kissing , Went merrily round the room . Pert Stephen was kind to Betty , As blithe as a bird in the spring , And Tommy was so to Katy , And wedded her with a rush-ring . Sukey that danc'd with the cushion , And hour from the room had been gone And Barnaby knew by her blushing Some other dance had been done . And thus of fifty fair maids , That went to the wedding with men , Scarce five of the Fifty were left you , That so did return again . Brisk Dolly and pretty fac'd Kate , This merriment they did adore ; Each lass was so pleas'd with her mate , As she never had been before . Nay , Susan was pleas'd at the heart , She said it and said it again ; The young men have play'd their parts , And no one had cause to complain . The day was in merriment spent , The pipers and fiddlers did play Before all the throng as they went , Thus they made and end of the day . So was not this a fine Wedding , Where all was pleas'd to the life ; And they say he makes a kind husband , And she a very good wife . THE WINCHESTER WEDDING : OR , Ralph of Reading , and Black Bess of the Green . Tune ---- The King's Jig . AT Winchester there was a Wedding The like was never seen , 'Twixt lusty Ralph of Reading , And bonny Black Bess of the Green ; The fiddlers were crowding before , Each lass was as fine as a Queen , There was and hundred and more , For all the whole country came in . Brisk Robin led Rose so fair , She look'd like a lily i'th' vale , And ruddy fac'd Harry led Mary , And Roger led bouncing Nell . With Tommy came smiling Katy , He helped her over a style , And swore there was none so pretty In forty and forty long miles . Kit gave a green gown to Betty , And lent her his hand to rise ; But Jenny was jeer'd by Watty , For looking blue under the eyes . Thus merrily chatting all day , They passed to the bride house along , With Johnny and pretty fac'd Nany , The fairest of all the throng . The bridegroom came out to meet 'em , Afraid the dinner was spoil'd , And usher'd them in to treat 'em With bak'd , and roast , and boil'd , The lads were frolic and jolly , For each lad his lass by his side , But Willy was melancholy , For he had a mind to the bride , Then Philip began her health , And turn'd a beer-glass on his thumb , But Jenkin was reckon'd for drinking , The best in Christendom . And now they had dined , advancing Into the midst of the hall , The fiddlers struck for dancing , And Jeremy led up the ball . But Margery kept her quarter , A lass that was proud of her pelf , 'Cause Arthur had stolen her garter , And swore he would tie it himself ; She struggl'd , she blush'd and frown'd , And ready with anger to cry , 'Cause Arthur in tying her garter Had slipped his hand too high . And now for throwing the stocking , The bride away was led , The bridegroom god drunk , and was knocking For candles to light them to-bed . But Robin , who found him so silly , Most kindly took him aside , While that his wife with Willy Was playing at hooper's hide . And now the warm game begins , The critical minute was come , And chatting , and billing and kissing , Went merrily round the room . Pert Stephen was kind to Betty , As blithe as a bird in the spring , And Tommy was so to Katy , And wedded her with a rush-ring . Sukey that danc'd with the cushion , And hour from the room had been gone And Barnaby knew by her blushing Some other dance had been done . And thus of fifty fair maids , That went to the wedding with men , Scarce five of the Fifty were left you , That so did return again . Brisk Dolly and pretty fac'd Kate , This merriment they did adore ; Each lass was so pleas'd with her mate , As she never had been before . Nay , Susan was pleas'd at the heart , She said it and said it again ; The young men have play'd their parts , And no one had cause to complain . The day was in merriment spent , The pipers and fiddlers did play Before all the throng as they went , Thus they made and end of the day . So was not this a fine Wedding , Where all was pleas'd to the life ; And they say he makes a kind husband , And she a very good wife . 