J ------ n B ------- s's Ballad continued . IX . DO you appear in any Page , That W ------ son has printed ? This active Author of the Age , Ne'er by your Rules was stinted . X. No Priest more powerfully can preach , Without all Contradiction . To prove this , please peruse the Speech Of ill-h ---- 'd M --- gy WORSER ------ son . XI . Ere she was strung , the wicked Wife Was Sainted by the Flamen ; But now since she's return'd to Life , Some say she's the old samen . XII . He led her by the Hand a Show , By which she made some Gilders , Which he might borrow ; wherefore not ? As he does from his E ------ rs . XIII . But above all who speak or write , C ------ rgie claims my Praises , Who out of Colours read and white ; The deepest Doctrine raises . XIV . O lovely Laird ! eke pious Priest ; A Text thou tightly stretches . Thy Sermons are no more a Jest , Than thy Assembly-Speeches . XV . When thou into hid Myst'ry keeks , How dearly does thou charm one : Fair fa' the Wife that cuff'd his Cheeks ; Who left thy good lang Sermon . XVI . Go on Great Men ! and never irk , When now's the solemn Season , While leagu'd in Votes , to free the Kirk From Learning , Sense and Reason . [ More coming yet . J ------ n B ------- s's Ballad continued . IX . DO you appear in any Page , That W ------ son has printed ? This active Author of the Age , Ne'er by your Rules was stinted . X. No Priest more powerfully can preach , Without all Contradiction . To prove this , please peruse the Speech Of ill-h ---- 'd M --- gy WORSER ------ son . XI . Ere she was strung , the wicked Wife Was Sainted by the Flamen ; But now since she's return'd to Life , Some say she's the old samen . XII . He led her by the Hand a Show , By which she made some Gilders , Which he might borrow ; wherefore not ? As he does from his E ------ rs . XIII . But above all who speak or write , C ------ rgie claims my Praises , Who out of Colours read and white ; The deepest Doctrine raises . XIV . O lovely Laird ! eke pious Priest ; A Text thou tightly stretches . Thy Sermons are no more a Jest , Than thy Assembly-Speeches . XV . When thou into hid Myst'ry keeks , How dearly does thou charm one : Fair fa' the Wife that cuff'd his Cheeks ; Who left thy good lang Sermon . XVI . Go on Great Men ! and never irk , When now's the solemn Season , While leagu'd in Votes , to free the Kirk From Learning , Sense and Reason . [ More coming yet . 