Two excellent New SONGS . I. A new Love Song . II Newcastle Ale . A New Love SONG . DOwn in yond Meadow fresh and gay , Picking of Flowers the other Day , Picking of Lilies read and blue : I little thought what Love could do . Where Love is planted there it grows , It buds and blossoms much like a Rose ; It has a sweet and pleasant smell , No Flower on earth can it excel . Must I be bound , must she be free , Must I love one that loves not me ; If I should act such a childish Part , To love a Girl that would break my Heart . If there are thousands , thousands in a Room My Love she carries the brightest Bloom ; Sure she is some chosen one , I will have her , or I'll have none . I saw a Ship sailing on the Deep , She sail'd as deep as she could swim ; But not so deep as in Love I am , I care not whither it sink or swim . I set my Back against and Oak , I thought it was a trusty Tree , But first it bent and then it broke , So did my false Love to me . I put my Hand into the Bush , Thinking the sweetest Rose to find , I prick'd my Fingers to the Bone , And left the sweetest Rose behind . If Roses be such prickly Flowers , They must be gather'd while they're green , And he that loves and unkind Lover , I'm sure he strives against the stream . When my Love is dead and at and end , I'll think of her whom I love best , I'll rap her up Linning strong , And think on her when she's dead and gone . Newcastle ALE , Tune Lillabolero . FAIR Venus , the Goddess of Beauty and Love , Arose from the Froth that swam on the Sea ; Minerva leap'd out of the Cranium of Jove , A coy sullen Slut as most Authors agree : Bold Bacchus , they tell us , the Prince of good Fellows , Was his natural Son , but attend to my Tale ! For they that thus chatter mistake quite the Matter , He sprung from a Barrel of Newcastle Ale . Newcastle Ale , Boys ; Newcastle Ale , No Liquour on Earth is like Newcastle Ale . Then having survey'd well the Cask whence he sprung , And finding it empty , disconsolate grew ; He mounted a stride , set his A ---- e on the Bung ; And away to the Gods and the Goddesses flew ; But when he look'd down , and saw the fair Town To pay him due Honours not likely to fail ; He swore , on all Earth , that the Place of his Birth Was the best , and no Liquour like Newcastle Ale , Newcastle Ale , Boys , etc the Doctors , who more Execution have done With Bolus and Potion , and Powder and Pill , Than Hangmen with Halter , and Soldier with Gun , Or Miser with Famine , or Lawyer with Quill , To dispatch us the quicker , you forbid us Malt Liquour , Till our Bodies grow thin , and our Faces look pale ; Observe them who pleases , what cures all Diseases Is a comforting Dose of good Newcastle Ale . Newcastle Ale , Boys , etc You Bishops and Deacons Priests , Curates , and Vicars , Come taste , and you'll certainly find it is true , That Newcastle Ale is the best of all Liquours , And who understand the good Creature like you ? It dispels ev'ry Vapour , saves Pen , Ink and Paper ; For when you're dispos'd from the Pulpit to rail , It will open your Throats , you may preach without Notes When inspir'd with full Bumpers of Newcastle Ale . Newcastle Ale , Boys , etc Let each Lover that talks of Flames , Darts and Daggers , With Newcastle Ale ply his Mistress but hard ; The Lass that once tastes it will drink till she staggers , And all his past Service and Suff'rings reward : He may turn her , and twist her , and do what he lists , Sir , Engage her but briskly he soon must prevail ; Fill , fill the Glass often , for nothing can soften The Heart of a Woman like Newcastle Ale . Newcastle Ale , Boys ; Newcastle Ale , No Liquour on Earth is like Newcastle Ale . FINIS . Two excellent New SONGS . I. A new Love Song . II Newcastle Ale . A New Love SONG . DOwn in yond Meadow fresh and gay , Picking of Flowers the other Day , Picking of Lilies read and blue : I little thought what Love could do . Where Love is planted there it grows , It buds and blossoms much like a Rose ; It has a sweet and pleasant smell , No Flower on earth can it excel . Must I be bound , must she be free , Must I love one that loves not me ; If I should act such a childish Part , To love a Girl that would break my Heart . If there are thousands , thousands in a Room My Love she carries the brightest Bloom ; Sure she is some chosen one , I will have her , or I'll have none . I saw a Ship sailing on the Deep , She sail'd as deep as she could swim ; But not so deep as in Love I am , I care not whither it sink or swim . I set my Back against and Oak , I thought it was a trusty Tree , But first it bent and then it broke , So did my false Love to me . I put my Hand into the Bush , Thinking the sweetest Rose to find , I prick'd my Fingers to the Bone , And left the sweetest Rose behind . If Roses be such prickly Flowers , They must be gather'd while they're green , And he that loves and unkind Lover , I'm sure he strives against the stream . When my Love is dead and at and end , I'll think of her whom I love best , I'll rap her up Linning strong , And think on her when she's dead and gone . Newcastle ALE , Tune Lillabolero . FAIR Venus , the Goddess of Beauty and Love , Arose from the Froth that swam on the Sea ; Minerva leap'd out of the Cranium of Jove , A coy sullen Slut as most Authors agree : Bold Bacchus , they tell us , the Prince of good Fellows , Was his natural Son , but attend to my Tale ! For they that thus chatter mistake quite the Matter , He sprung from a Barrel of Newcastle Ale . Newcastle Ale , Boys ; Newcastle Ale , No Liquour on Earth is like Newcastle Ale . Then having survey'd well the Cask whence he sprung , And finding it empty , disconsolate grew ; He mounted a stride , set his A ---- e on the Bung ; And away to the Gods and the Goddesses flew ; But when he look'd down , and saw the fair Town To pay him due Honours not likely to fail ; He swore , on all Earth , that the Place of his Birth Was the best , and no Liquour like Newcastle Ale , Newcastle Ale , Boys , etc the Doctors , who more Execution have done With Bolus and Potion , and Powder and Pill , Than Hangmen with Halter , and Soldier with Gun , Or Miser with Famine , or Lawyer with Quill , To dispatch us the quicker , you forbid us Malt Liquour , Till our Bodies grow thin , and our Faces look pale ; Observe them who pleases , what cures all Diseases Is a comforting Dose of good Newcastle Ale . Newcastle Ale , Boys , etc You Bishops and Deacons Priests , Curates , and Vicars , Come taste , and you'll certainly find it is true , That Newcastle Ale is the best of all Liquours , And who understand the good Creature like you ? It dispels ev'ry Vapour , saves Pen , Ink and Paper ; For when you're dispos'd from the Pulpit to rail , It will open your Throats , you may preach without Notes When inspir'd with full Bumpers of Newcastle Ale . Newcastle Ale , Boys , etc Let each Lover that talks of Flames , Darts and Daggers , With Newcastle Ale ply his Mistress but hard ; The Lass that once tastes it will drink till she staggers , And all his past Service and Suff'rings reward : He may turn her , and twist her , and do what he lists , Sir , Engage her but briskly he soon must prevail ; Fill , fill the Glass often , for nothing can soften The Heart of a Woman like Newcastle Ale . Newcastle Ale , Boys ; Newcastle Ale , No Liquour on Earth is like Newcastle Ale . FINIS . 