A NEW and OLD MEDLEY . DOff with your clogs and cockers , And dONE with your hose and shoes , And away to John at the Cock at Pegham , And we will have a new tune , tol , lol . Says old Sir Simon the King . To young Sir Simon the Squire , Old father Jenkinson kissed mother Wilkinson , Round about our coal fire . My father gave me a white horse , My mother gave me a brown c [ oh ] w ? My sister she's turn'd whore , And what is that to you ? As I went over the water , For want of company , I met with a lass a scratching her arse , Will you buy any milk for firmity ? There was and old woman had nothing , And there came thieves to rob her , She cry'd ot and sa [ i ] worser nothing , And no body came to help her . There were threescore women run naked , And fourscore of them was blind , He run , she run , and I run , And so we run all of a mind . If a man should lie with my wife , I'll kill him if I can , I'll stick my nose in his arse , Zounds ! a man's but a man . Somebody come light me a candle , My wife she will die in my arms , I dare not loek at her for laughing , Come somebody knock out her brains . My father's a Lady of honour , My mother's a justice of peace , My arse is and apple-pie maker , And you may come to the feast . There was and old woman of Wigan She shit in a bottle of h [ a ] y , She run threescore miles to a meeting , And shit and pist all the way . My landlady roasted a whiting , And all the house stunk of the fish , She run about farting and shiting , The devil set fire to her arse . When I have god money I'm merry , When I have god none I am sad , When I am sober I'm civil , And when I am drunk I am mad . And heigh for a pipe of tobacco , And heigh for a bottle of wine , And heigh for a pretty girl That will turn her bore belly to mire . M [ a ] rjoram grows by thyme , Thyme [ i ] tO grows by sag [ e ] , Clap your belly to mine , And put the bird into the eage . The beginning of St Lege [ r ] s round , The cow leapt over the moon , The maid she shit in the cream pot , And we'll have a dumplin soon . Take and old whore and roast her , Baist her w [ e ] ll with cheese , Lay her out in a frosty night , L [ i ] sten to one but she'll freeze . Take her in the next morning , Lay her in a b [ e ] worser of straw , Then set fire to her arse , Ten to one but she'll thaw . Coverly's cow's in the corn , No body helps her out , Coverly's wife is beshit , And nobody lends her a cl [ oh ] ut . The goodwife pist in the grass , And there sprung up a rose , The cobbler bit his wife by the arse , And she beshit his nose . There was a maid , and she was sick , The doctors told her she must die , She god up to piss and shit , She was as well as you or I . Jo [ a ] n shall I see your coney ? Jo [ a ] n shall I feel your coney ? How the devil , said she , will you feel my coney , And my petticoats hang so low . There was and old woman , and she And me crept up in a tree , And when she came there , her arse it was b [ a ] re , And her conjuring cap you might see . Did not you know Tom Dod ? And did not you know Tom Dod ? His breeches was tore behind and before And his twopence went niddity-nod . There was and old woman , cock-ram her . She liv'd at the sign of the hammer ; She dy'd of the col [ i ] ck , I l [ a ] ugh'd at the frolic , To see how the sexton did jam her . Will you buy any beer of me ? ? Will you buy any beer of me For I have a barrel to broach , A little above my knee . 'Tis eighteenpence a quart , And half-a-crown to trust , Sixteen shillings a Gallon , And that makes twenty just . A NEW and OLD MEDLEY . DOff with your clogs and cockers , And dONE with your hose and shoes , And away to John at the Cock at Pegham , And we will have a new tune , tol , lol . Says old Sir Simon the King . To young Sir Simon the Squire , Old father Jenkinson kissed mother Wilkinson , Round about our coal fire . My father gave me a white horse , My mother gave me a brown c [ oh ] w ? My sister she's turn'd whore , And what is that to you ? As I went over the water , For want of company , I met with a lass a scratching her arse , Will you buy any milk for firmity ? There was and old woman had nothing , And there came thieves to rob her , She cry'd ot and sa [ i ] worser nothing , And no body came to help her . There were threescore women run naked , And fourscore of them was blind , He run , she run , and I run , And so we run all of a mind . If a man should lie with my wife , I'll kill him if I can , I'll stick my nose in his arse , Zounds ! a man's but a man . Somebody come light me a candle , My wife she will die in my arms , I dare not loek at her for laughing , Come somebody knock out her brains . My father's a Lady of honour , My mother's a justice of peace , My arse is and apple-pie maker , And you may come to the feast . There was and old woman of Wigan She shit in a bottle of h [ a ] y , She run threescore miles to a meeting , And shit and pist all the way . My landlady roasted a whiting , And all the house stunk of the fish , She run about farting and shiting , The devil set fire to her arse . When I have god money I'm merry , When I have god none I am sad , When I am sober I'm civil , And when I am drunk I am mad . And heigh for a pipe of tobacco , And heigh for a bottle of wine , And heigh for a pretty girl That will turn her bore belly to mire . M [ a ] rjoram grows by thyme , Thyme [ i ] tO grows by sag [ e ] , Clap your belly to mine , And put the bird into the eage . The beginning of St Lege [ r ] s round , The cow leapt over the moon , The maid she shit in the cream pot , And we'll have a dumplin soon . Take and old whore and roast her , Baist her w [ e ] ll with cheese , Lay her out in a frosty night , L [ i ] sten to one but she'll freeze . Take her in the next morning , Lay her in a b [ e ] worser of straw , Then set fire to her arse , Ten to one but she'll thaw . Coverly's cow's in the corn , No body helps her out , Coverly's wife is beshit , And nobody lends her a cl [ oh ] ut . The goodwife pist in the grass , And there sprung up a rose , The cobbler bit his wife by the arse , And she beshit his nose . There was a maid , and she was sick , The doctors told her she must die , She god up to piss and shit , She was as well as you or I . Jo [ a ] n shall I see your coney ? Jo [ a ] n shall I feel your coney ? How the devil , said she , will you feel my coney , And my petticoats hang so low . There was and old woman , and she And me crept up in a tree , And when she came there , her arse it was b [ a ] re , And her conjuring cap you might see . Did not you know Tom Dod ? And did not you know Tom Dod ? His breeches was tore behind and before And his twopence went niddity-nod . There was and old woman , cock-ram her . She liv'd at the sign of the hammer ; She dy'd of the col [ i ] ck , I l [ a ] ugh'd at the frolic , To see how the sexton did jam her . Will you buy any beer of me ? ? Will you buy any beer of me For I have a barrel to broach , A little above my knee . 'Tis eighteenpence a quart , And half-a-crown to trust , Sixteen shillings a Gallon , And that makes twenty just . 