SONGS AND TOASTS . Tally High Ho. GO search the World round and about , And many a freak you'll be finding ; But what do you think is all the go ? By the hooky it's nothing but grinding . Tally high ho , scandal the devil bind her , The world is all how come you so , and every profession are grinders . The law is a state mill , those devouring elves The lawyers , are terrible giants ; They grind all the grist for themselves , And leave all the chaff for their clients . The doctors grind you for their fees , They kill you for mere preservation ; For they know if you live to get well , They must die sure enough by starvation . The misers grind north , east , west , and south , The barber at grinding's a crammer , The churchwarden has god a wide mouth , And his grinders are like a sledge hammer . The gamester he grinds by the cards , You'd swear he's the devil's own cousin ; The taylor he grinds by the yard , And the baker he grinds by the dozen . Thus like cobblers , to make both ends meet , Each man sticks close to his leather . But Old Neck , who all grinders can beatrice , Will soon grind the whole boiling together . Britain's grinders , beware of her wooden walls , The Cambrians and Scots are not behind her , But the cornfactor grinds us the worst , I'm sure he's the devil's own grinder . If ever a raft's form'd at Breast , Tho' your favours are ever so binding May the devil grind me with the rest , So just gently finish your grinding . SONGS AND TOASTS . Tally High Ho. GO search the World round and about , And many a freak you'll be finding ; But what do you think is all the go ? By the hooky it's nothing but grinding . Tally high ho , scandal the devil bind her , The world is all how come you so , and every profession are grinders . The law is a state mill , those devouring elves The lawyers , are terrible giants ; They grind all the grist for themselves , And leave all the chaff for their clients . The doctors grind you for their fees , They kill you for mere preservation ; For they know if you live to get well , They must die sure enough by starvation . The misers grind north , east , west , and south , The barber at grinding's a crammer , The churchwarden has god a wide mouth , And his grinders are like a sledge hammer . The gamester he grinds by the cards , You'd swear he's the devil's own cousin ; The taylor he grinds by the yard , And the baker he grinds by the dozen . Thus like cobblers , to make both ends meet , Each man sticks close to his leather . But Old Neck , who all grinders can beatrice , Will soon grind the whole boiling together . Britain's grinders , beware of her wooden walls , The Cambrians and Scots are not behind her , But the cornfactor grinds us the worst , I'm sure he's the devil's own grinder . If ever a raft's form'd at Breast , Tho' your favours are ever so binding May the devil grind me with the rest , So just gently finish your grinding . 