FLORA's FAREWELL ; OR , The Passionate Shepherd's Love-Song . Wherein he greatly does complain , Because his Love was spent in vain . To the Tune of , A thousand Times my Love commend . FLora farewell , I needs must go , for if with thee I longer stay , Thine Eyes prevail over me so I shall grow blind , and loose my Way . Fame of thy Beauty and thy Youth , to seek for Love me hither brought ; But when in thee I found no Truth , it was no Boot for me stay . Now I'm engag'd by Word and Oath , Servant to another's Will ; Yet for thy Sake would forego both , wouldst thou besure to love me still . But what Assurance can I have of thee ? who seeing my Abuse , In that which Love desires to crave , may leave me with a just Excuse . For thou must say , 'Twas not thy Fault that thou didst so unconstant prove , Thou wertenberg by mine Example taught , to break thy Oath and leave thy Love . No , Flora , no , I will recall the former Words which I have spoke , And thou shalt have no Sense at all to hamper me in Cupid's Yoke . But since thy Humour is to range , and that thou bear'st a wavering Mind , Like to the Moon with thee I'll change , and turn I can with every Wind. Henceforth blind Fancy I'll remove , and cast all Sorrow from my Heart , Young Men die for dotting Love , I hold it but a foolish Part. Why should I to one Love be bound , and my Thoughts on none but thee ; When as a Thousand may be found , that's far more fair and fit for me . Though I am but a Shepherd Swain , my Mind to me does Comfort bring , Feeding my Flock upon a Plain , I triumph like a petty King . No Female-rat shall me deceive , nor catch me by a crafty Wild ; Though I do love , yet I can leave , and will no longer be beguil'd . Flora , once more , farewell , adieu , so I conclude my Passion long : To thy new Love see you prove true , for thou hast done me double Wrong . Fair Flora's Answer to the Shepherd's Song , Wherein she shows that he has done the Wrong . Fie Shepherd , fie thou art to blame , to rail against me in this sort , Thou dost disgrace a Sweethearts name , to give thy Love a false Report . There was a Proverb used of old , and now I find it is no Lie , One Tale is good , till another's told ; she that Loves most is set by . A brief Description I will tell of my Favour , Love , and Flattery ; And how at first thou didst excel with cunning Tricks and Policy . But o ! that flattering Tongue of thine and tempting Eye sought to entice , And to ensnare the Heart of mine , and bring me in Fools Paradise . When thou at first began to Woo , and with thy Skill my Patience try'd ; You though there was no more to do , but presently to up and ride . Thou said'st that I was fair and bright , and fitting for thy Marriagebed ; Thou fed'st my Fancy with Delight , thinking to have my Maden-head . But when thou saw'st thou could not get the Jem that thou desirest to have , My Company than didst refrain , like to a false dissembling Knave . Whereby I answered thus and said , To shun the Cause of further Strife , I would contain my self a Maid , until such time I'm made a Wife . And since you my poor mind have crossed , go bestow your self as you will ; Shepherd farewell , there's nothing lost , I am resolv'd to say so still . Blind Cupid with his wounding Dart , could never make me Sorrow feel ; I'll not lay that unto my Heart , that others shake off with their Heel . FLORA's FAREWELL ; OR , The Passionate Shepherd's Love-Song . Wherein he greatly does complain , Because his Love was spent in vain . To the Tune of , A thousand Times my Love commend . FLora farewell , I needs must go , for if with thee I longer stay , Thine Eyes prevail over me so I shall grow blind , and loose my Way . Fame of thy Beauty and thy Youth , to seek for Love me hither brought ; But when in thee I found no Truth , it was no Boot for me stay . Now I'm engag'd by Word and Oath , Servant to another's Will ; Yet for thy Sake would forego both , wouldst thou besure to love me still . But what Assurance can I have of thee ? who seeing my Abuse , In that which Love desires to crave , may leave me with a just Excuse . For thou must say , 'Twas not thy Fault that thou didst so unconstant prove , Thou wertenberg by mine Example taught , to break thy Oath and leave thy Love . No , Flora , no , I will recall the former Words which I have spoke , And thou shalt have no Sense at all to hamper me in Cupid's Yoke . But since thy Humour is to range , and that thou bear'st a wavering Mind , Like to the Moon with thee I'll change , and turn I can with every Wind. Henceforth blind Fancy I'll remove , and cast all Sorrow from my Heart , Young Men die for dotting Love , I hold it but a foolish Part. Why should I to one Love be bound , and my Thoughts on none but thee ; When as a Thousand may be found , that's far more fair and fit for me . Though I am but a Shepherd Swain , my Mind to me does Comfort bring , Feeding my Flock upon a Plain , I triumph like a petty King . No Female-rat shall me deceive , nor catch me by a crafty Wild ; Though I do love , yet I can leave , and will no longer be beguil'd . Flora , once more , farewell , adieu , so I conclude my Passion long : To thy new Love see you prove true , for thou hast done me double Wrong . Fair Flora's Answer to the Shepherd's Song , Wherein she shows that he has done the Wrong . Fie Shepherd , fie thou art to blame , to rail against me in this sort , Thou dost disgrace a Sweethearts name , to give thy Love a false Report . There was a Proverb used of old , and now I find it is no Lie , One Tale is good , till another's told ; she that Loves most is set by . A brief Description I will tell of my Favour , Love , and Flattery ; And how at first thou didst excel with cunning Tricks and Policy . But o ! that flattering Tongue of thine and tempting Eye sought to entice , And to ensnare the Heart of mine , and bring me in Fools Paradise . When thou at first began to Woo , and with thy Skill my Patience try'd ; You though there was no more to do , but presently to up and ride . Thou said'st that I was fair and bright , and fitting for thy Marriagebed ; Thou fed'st my Fancy with Delight , thinking to have my Maden-head . But when thou saw'st thou could not get the Jem that thou desirest to have , My Company than didst refrain , like to a false dissembling Knave . Whereby I answered thus and said , To shun the Cause of further Strife , I would contain my self a Maid , until such time I'm made a Wife . And since you my poor mind have crossed , go bestow your self as you will ; Shepherd farewell , there's nothing lost , I am resolv'd to say so still . Blind Cupid with his wounding Dart , could never make me Sorrow feel ; I'll not lay that unto my Heart , that others shake off with their Heel . 