FOUR Choice CAROLS for CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS . CAROL I . On CHRISTMAS-DAY . CAROL II On St. STEPHEN's-DAY . CAROL III . On St. JOHN's-DAY . CAROL IV. On INNOCENT's-DAY . Being very necessary and proper to be had in all CHRISTIAN FAMILIES . GOD rest you merry Gentlemen , Let nothing you dismay ; Remember Christ our Saviour , Who was born on Christmas-day , To save our Souls from Satan's Fold , Which long time had gone astray . And 'tis Tidings of Comfort and Joy . From him that was our Father , The Blessed Angel came , And to the watchful shepherd's brought The Tidings of the same : That there was born in Bethlehem , The Son of God by Name , And 'tis Tidings , etc Fear not , then said God's Angels , Let nothing you affright , This Night is born a Saviour , Of a Virgin pure and brigh He is able to advance you , And throw down Satan quite . And 'tis Tidings , etc The Shepherd's at these Tidings , Rejoiced much in Mind , And left their Flocks a feeding , In Tempest , Storm , and Wind : Then straight they went to Bethlehem , The son of God to find . And 'tis Tidings , etc But when they came to Bethlehem , Whereas our Saviour lay , They found him in a Manger , Where Oxen fed on Hay : Our blessed Lady Kneeling by , Unto the Lord did pray . And 'tis Tidings , etc At which the sudden Gladness , The Shepherd's then were fill'd , When as the Babe of Israel , Thus when they had beheld : Before his Mother thus to lie , The Scripture thus fulfill'd . And 'tis Tidings , etc Now let me all you entreat , That are within this Place , That each dear loving Christian , The other would embrace ; For the happy Time of Christmas Is drawing on apace . With Tidings and Comfort and Joy . CAROL II On St STEPHEN's-DAY . IN friendly Love and Unity , For good St Stephen's Sake , Let us all this blessed Day , To Heaven our Prayers make , That we with him the Cross of Christ , May freely undertake . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . Those accursed Infidels , That stoned him to Death , Could not by their Cruelties , Withhold him from his Faith , In such a godly Martyrdom , Seek we all the Paths . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . And while we fit here banqueting Of Dainties having Store , Let us not forgetful be , To cherish up the Poor , And give what is convenient To those that ask at Door . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . For God hath made you Stewards here , Upon the Earth to dwell : He that gathereth for himself , And will not use it well , Lives far worse then Dives did , That burns now in Hell . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . And now in Love and Charity , See you your Table spread , That I may taste of your good Cheer , Your Christmas Ale and Bred ; That I may say that I full well . For this my Carol sped . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . For Bounty is a blessed Gift , The Load above it sends , And he that gives it from his Hands , Deserveth many Friends ; I see it on my Master's Board , And so my Carol ends , Lord Jesus send you his Blessing . CAROL III . On St JOHN's-DAY . WHEN bloody Herod reigned King , Within Judea's Land , Much Woe his Will did bring , By bloody fierce Command . Among the Rest , with Grief oppress'd ; Was good St John here slave , Who at this Day with Sport and Play , A martyr'd Death did gain . King Herod being in his Town , Herodias dancing 'spy'd , As fair as any Summer's Flower , In all her painted Pride : Clad in bright Gold , which to behold , King Herod's Heart admir'd , He bid her crave , and she should have , Though she Half his Crown desir'd . A kingly Crown I do not wish , But St John's Head , she said , Wherefore all bleeding in a Dish , Before me be it laid ; Which was the Thing , she of the King , Desir'd with right Goodwill ; Whose Death was wrought and to be brought , Such Minds have Strumpets still . Thus Wine and Woman we do see , Men's Minds to Folly win ; For Herod did too soon agree , And gave Consent to since : For on this Day , as Scriptures say , St John did loose his Head : While he did sing , before the King , As he at Table fed . Then let us all by him take Heed Of Riot and Excess , For Fear that soon to us it breed As great a Wickedness : And let our Sport , in civil Sort , Content each merry Mind , So shall we all , in this good Hall , Much Joy and comfort find . Now kindly for my pretty Song , Good Butler draw some Beer , You know what duties do belong To him that sings so clear : Holly and Ive , Drink will drive you To the brown bowl of Perry , Apples and Ale , with Christmas Tale , Will make the Household merry . CAROL IV. On INNOCENT'S DAY . UPON the Twenty-fifth of December , Our blessed Messias he was born : Let us with Praise this Day adore , To see how he left his Habitation ; For to redeem poor sinful Men Sing Praise unto his most holy Name . First . A bright Angel brought the happy Tidings , Unto a Virgin pure and chaste , Hail ! blessed Mary , full of Grace , The Lord of Life remains with thee , The blessed Saviour of all Men . Sing Praise unto his most holy Name . The blessed Virgin weary was and tired , When she came to Bethlehem , There was no Lodging for her then , She was deliver'd of our Saviour , That very Night in and Ox's Stall , To show that Man's Pride must have a Fallen . Then came three Wisemen , Kings that were so loya All guided by a glorious Star , From the East Country came so far , To see the blessed Babe sweet Jesus , That in a Manger there was laid , Sing Praise unto his holy Name . But when King Herod found himself deceiv'd , He was with Wrath and Anger fill'd ; Vowing that all Infants should be kill'd , Thinking to murder our dear Saviour , Who came for to redeem us then , Oh cruel , cruel , and most bloody Man ! Then came the glorious happy Tidings , Unto poor Shepherd's feeding Sheep , Which made the Shepherd's Hearts to leap , To hear the blessed Babe sweet Jesus That he was born in Bethlehem , Sing Praise unto his most gracious Name . FOUR Choice CAROLS for CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS . CAROL I . On CHRISTMAS-DAY . CAROL II On St. STEPHEN's-DAY . CAROL III . On St. JOHN's-DAY . CAROL IV. On INNOCENT's-DAY . Being very necessary and proper to be had in all CHRISTIAN FAMILIES . GOD rest you merry Gentlemen , Let nothing you dismay ; Remember Christ our Saviour , Who was born on Christmas-day , To save our Souls from Satan's Fold , Which long time had gone astray . And 'tis Tidings of Comfort and Joy . From him that was our Father , The Blessed Angel came , And to the watchful shepherd's brought The Tidings of the same : That there was born in Bethlehem , The Son of God by Name , And 'tis Tidings , etc Fear not , then said God's Angels , Let nothing you affright , This Night is born a Saviour , Of a Virgin pure and brigh He is able to advance you , And throw down Satan quite . And 'tis Tidings , etc The Shepherd's at these Tidings , Rejoiced much in Mind , And left their Flocks a feeding , In Tempest , Storm , and Wind : Then straight they went to Bethlehem , The son of God to find . And 'tis Tidings , etc But when they came to Bethlehem , Whereas our Saviour lay , They found him in a Manger , Where Oxen fed on Hay : Our blessed Lady Kneeling by , Unto the Lord did pray . And 'tis Tidings , etc At which the sudden Gladness , The Shepherd's then were fill'd , When as the Babe of Israel , Thus when they had beheld : Before his Mother thus to lie , The Scripture thus fulfill'd . And 'tis Tidings , etc Now let me all you entreat , That are within this Place , That each dear loving Christian , The other would embrace ; For the happy Time of Christmas Is drawing on apace . With Tidings and Comfort and Joy . CAROL II On St STEPHEN's-DAY . IN friendly Love and Unity , For good St Stephen's Sake , Let us all this blessed Day , To Heaven our Prayers make , That we with him the Cross of Christ , May freely undertake . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . Those accursed Infidels , That stoned him to Death , Could not by their Cruelties , Withhold him from his Faith , In such a godly Martyrdom , Seek we all the Paths . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . And while we fit here banqueting Of Dainties having Store , Let us not forgetful be , To cherish up the Poor , And give what is convenient To those that ask at Door . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . For God hath made you Stewards here , Upon the Earth to dwell : He that gathereth for himself , And will not use it well , Lives far worse then Dives did , That burns now in Hell . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . And now in Love and Charity , See you your Table spread , That I may taste of your good Cheer , Your Christmas Ale and Bred ; That I may say that I full well . For this my Carol sped . And Jesus will send you his Blessing . For Bounty is a blessed Gift , The Load above it sends , And he that gives it from his Hands , Deserveth many Friends ; I see it on my Master's Board , And so my Carol ends , Lord Jesus send you his Blessing . CAROL III . On St JOHN's-DAY . WHEN bloody Herod reigned King , Within Judea's Land , Much Woe his Will did bring , By bloody fierce Command . Among the Rest , with Grief oppress'd ; Was good St John here slave , Who at this Day with Sport and Play , A martyr'd Death did gain . King Herod being in his Town , Herodias dancing 'spy'd , As fair as any Summer's Flower , In all her painted Pride : Clad in bright Gold , which to behold , King Herod's Heart admir'd , He bid her crave , and she should have , Though she Half his Crown desir'd . A kingly Crown I do not wish , But St John's Head , she said , Wherefore all bleeding in a Dish , Before me be it laid ; Which was the Thing , she of the King , Desir'd with right Goodwill ; Whose Death was wrought and to be brought , Such Minds have Strumpets still . Thus Wine and Woman we do see , Men's Minds to Folly win ; For Herod did too soon agree , And gave Consent to since : For on this Day , as Scriptures say , St John did loose his Head : While he did sing , before the King , As he at Table fed . Then let us all by him take Heed Of Riot and Excess , For Fear that soon to us it breed As great a Wickedness : And let our Sport , in civil Sort , Content each merry Mind , So shall we all , in this good Hall , Much Joy and comfort find . Now kindly for my pretty Song , Good Butler draw some Beer , You know what duties do belong To him that sings so clear : Holly and Ive , Drink will drive you To the brown bowl of Perry , Apples and Ale , with Christmas Tale , Will make the Household merry . CAROL IV. On INNOCENT'S DAY . UPON the Twenty-fifth of December , Our blessed Messias he was born : Let us with Praise this Day adore , To see how he left his Habitation ; For to redeem poor sinful Men Sing Praise unto his most holy Name . First . A bright Angel brought the happy Tidings , Unto a Virgin pure and chaste , Hail ! blessed Mary , full of Grace , The Lord of Life remains with thee , The blessed Saviour of all Men . Sing Praise unto his most holy Name . The blessed Virgin weary was and tired , When she came to Bethlehem , There was no Lodging for her then , She was deliver'd of our Saviour , That very Night in and Ox's Stall , To show that Man's Pride must have a Fallen . Then came three Wisemen , Kings that were so loya All guided by a glorious Star , From the East Country came so far , To see the blessed Babe sweet Jesus , That in a Manger there was laid , Sing Praise unto his holy Name . But when King Herod found himself deceiv'd , He was with Wrath and Anger fill'd ; Vowing that all Infants should be kill'd , Thinking to murder our dear Saviour , Who came for to redeem us then , Oh cruel , cruel , and most bloody Man ! Then came the glorious happy Tidings , Unto poor Shepherd's feeding Sheep , Which made the Shepherd's Hearts to leap , To hear the blessed Babe sweet Jesus That he was born in Bethlehem , Sing Praise unto his most gracious Name . 