The Young-Mans Complaint , Or , And ANSWER To The DAMOSELS Tragedy . When Friends deny , and won't comply . but let them suffer smart , We often see such Cruelty , will break a Lovers heart , To the Tune of , Charon , etc This may be Printed , R. P. NOw for the loss of my Amorous Jewel , I am surrounded in grief and woe . It was thy Parents unkind and most cruel , which did occasion thy overthrow : For my dear Nell I did adore thee , but we was too much kept apart , There was no one that I e're priz'd before thee ; thy Death alone does lie near my heart . Farewell the hope's of all peace , joy , and pleasure , I have no comfort ; but care and grief , Often in private I weep out of measure 'tis Death alone must yield me relief : Love , when I first herd of thy Dying , tho' we had long been kept apart , I tore my hair in a passion , and crying this Damsels death will lie near my heart . Down from his Eyes then the tears they did trickle , with many sorrowful sighs , said he , It is well known that I n [ e ] ver was fickle , for I lov'd none in the world but thee : Had I been suffer'd to come near thee , thou hadst not felt Death's cruel Dart , I would have laid down my life for to cheer thee , for thy Death now does lie near my heart . For many months I did never behold her , this was a sorrow that griev'd me soar , Her unkind Parents had oftentimes told her , that she should never come near me more : Thus did they soon blast all her glory , for when she felt Death's fatal Dart , I never herd a more killinger story , this Damsels death does lie near my heart . Then in her absence my poor heart was wounded ; for I might not come anear my joy ; When I cou'd see her we then was surrounded , in the sweet Raptures of Love and joy : But by her friends we were tormented , so that we felt Loves fatal smart , She by strong Poison her Passion has vented , this Damsels Death does lie near my heart . As she was dying , poor heart , she did blame me , she knew not very well what she said , Tho' with sad sorrowful signs she did name me , 'twas not her Love that her life betray'd : For if I might enjoy'd the blessing , she should have never felt the smart , Now am I nothing but torments possessing , this Damosels Death does lie near my heart . This sad Distraction so much does enthral me , that I am restless both night and day , Methinks I often henr my Lover call me , sa [ y ] ing sweet Johnny make haste away : Let there be now no more delaying , why shou [ l ] worser we still remain apart , Where e're I wander , I fancy this saying , her Death does now lie so near my heart . Thou in thy lifetime didst dearly adore me , as by thy sorrow I well m [ i ] ght see , Tho' thou art gone hence a little before me , Love , i'le lie down in the Grave with thee : Farewell my Friends ane each Relation , here with the World and you i'le part , For I shall be in a far better stat [ i ] on when I [ ' ] m with Nelly my own dear heart . The Young-Mans Complaint , Or , And ANSWER To The DAMOSELS Tragedy . When Friends deny , and won't comply . but let them suffer smart , We often see such Cruelty , will break a Lovers heart , To the Tune of , Charon , etc This may be Printed , R. P. NOw for the loss of my Amorous Jewel , I am surrounded in grief and woe . It was thy Parents unkind and most cruel , which did occasion thy overthrow : For my dear Nell I did adore thee , but we was too much kept apart , There was no one that I e're priz'd before thee ; thy Death alone does lie near my heart . Farewell the hope's of all peace , joy , and pleasure , I have no comfort ; but care and grief , Often in private I weep out of measure 'tis Death alone must yield me relief : Love , when I first herd of thy Dying , tho' we had long been kept apart , I tore my hair in a passion , and crying this Damsels death will lie near my heart . Down from his Eyes then the tears they did trickle , with many sorrowful sighs , said he , It is well known that I n [ e ] ver was fickle , for I lov'd none in the world but thee : Had I been suffer'd to come near thee , thou hadst not felt Death's cruel Dart , I would have laid down my life for to cheer thee , for thy Death now does lie near my heart . For many months I did never behold her , this was a sorrow that griev'd me soar , Her unkind Parents had oftentimes told her , that she should never come near me more : Thus did they soon blast all her glory , for when she felt Death's fatal Dart , I never herd a more killinger story , this Damsels death does lie near my heart . Then in her absence my poor heart was wounded ; for I might not come anear my joy ; When I cou'd see her we then was surrounded , in the sweet Raptures of Love and joy : But by her friends we were tormented , so that we felt Loves fatal smart , She by strong Poison her Passion has vented , this Damsels Death does lie near my heart . As she was dying , poor heart , she did blame me , she knew not very well what she said , Tho' with sad sorrowful signs she did name me , 'twas not her Love that her life betray'd : For if I might enjoy'd the blessing , she should have never felt the smart , Now am I nothing but torments possessing , this Damosels Death does lie near my heart . This sad Distraction so much does enthral me , that I am restless both night and day , Methinks I often henr my Lover call me , sa [ y ] ing sweet Johnny make haste away : Let there be now no more delaying , why shou [ l ] worser we still remain apart , Where e're I wander , I fancy this saying , her Death does now lie so near my heart . Thou in thy lifetime didst dearly adore me , as by thy sorrow I well m [ i ] ght see , Tho' thou art gone hence a little before me , Love , i'le lie down in the Grave with thee : Farewell my Friends ane each Relation , here with the World and you i'le part , For I shall be in a far better stat [ i ] on when I [ ' ] m with Nelly my own dear heart . 