THE False Knight Outwitted A new SONG . GO fetch me some of your father's gold , And some of your mother's fee , And I'll carry you into the North land , And there I'll marry thee She fetch'd him some of her father's gold , And some of her mother's fee , She carried him into the stable , Where horses stood thirty and three . She leap'd on a milkwhite steed , And he on a dapple gray ; They road till they came to a fair rivers Side , Three hours before it was day . O light , Oh light you lady gay , Oh light with speed I say ; For six Knights daughters have I drowned here , And you the seventh must be . Go fetch the fickle to crop the nettle That grows so near the brim ; For fear it should tangle my golden locks , Or freckle my milkwhite skin , He fetch'd the fickle to crop the nettle That grew so near the brim ; And with all the strength that pretty Polly had She pushed the False Knight in . Swim on , swim on , thou false Knight , And there bewail thy doom ; For I don't think thy clothing too good To lie in a wattry tomb . She leapt on her milkwhite steed , She led the dapple gray ; She rid till she came to her father's house , Three hours before it was day . Who knocked so loudly at the ring ? The Parrot he did say ; Oh where have you been my pretty Polly , All this long summer's day ? O hold your tongue parrot Tell you no tales of me ; Your cage shall be made of beaten gold , Which is now made of a tree . O then bespoke her father dear , As he on his bed did lay ; Oh what is the matter my parrot ? That you speak before it is day . That cat's at my cage , master , And sorely frighted me ; And I call'd down my Polly To take the cat away . THE False Knight Outwitted A new SONG . GO fetch me some of your father's gold , And some of your mother's fee , And I'll carry you into the North land , And there I'll marry thee She fetch'd him some of her father's gold , And some of her mother's fee , She carried him into the stable , Where horses stood thirty and three . She leap'd on a milkwhite steed , And he on a dapple gray ; They road till they came to a fair rivers Side , Three hours before it was day . O light , Oh light you lady gay , Oh light with speed I say ; For six Knights daughters have I drowned here , And you the seventh must be . Go fetch the fickle to crop the nettle That grows so near the brim ; For fear it should tangle my golden locks , Or freckle my milkwhite skin , He fetch'd the fickle to crop the nettle That grew so near the brim ; And with all the strength that pretty Polly had She pushed the False Knight in . Swim on , swim on , thou false Knight , And there bewail thy doom ; For I don't think thy clothing too good To lie in a wattry tomb . She leapt on her milkwhite steed , She led the dapple gray ; She rid till she came to her father's house , Three hours before it was day . Who knocked so loudly at the ring ? The Parrot he did say ; Oh where have you been my pretty Polly , All this long summer's day ? O hold your tongue parrot Tell you no tales of me ; Your cage shall be made of beaten gold , Which is now made of a tree . O then bespoke her father dear , As he on his bed did lay ; Oh what is the matter my parrot ? That you speak before it is day . That cat's at my cage , master , And sorely frighted me ; And I call'd down my Polly To take the cat away . 