THE Great MESSENGER of MORTALITY ; Or , a DIALOGUE betwixt DEATH and a beautiful LADY . From whence it appears that Death is no Respecter of Persons either for Birth or Beauty ; so that as sure as we are born , we shall certainly die : Therefore let us prepare ourselves against that Hour and Time , that he may appear as a welcome Messenger , that brings glad Tidings . Tune of , Farewell my Heart's Delight . DEATH . FAIR Lady , lay your costly Robes aside , No longer may you glory in your Pride ; Take leave of all your carnal vain Delight , For I come to summon you away this Night . LADY . What bold Attempt is this ? Pray let me know , From whence you come and whither must I go ? Shall I who am a Lady , yield or bow To such a pale fac'd Visage ; who art thou ? DEATH . Do you not know me ? Well , I'll tell you then , 'Tis I that conquers all the Sons of Men ; No Pitch of Honour from my Dart is free , My Name is Death , have you not herd of me ? LADY . Yes , I have herd of thee Time after Time , But being in the Glory of my Prime , I did not think thou would'st have call'd so soon , Why must my Morning Sun be turn'd to Noon ? DEATH . Talk not of Noon thou may'st as well be mute This is no Time at all for to dispute ; Your richest Jewels , Gold , and Garments brave , Your Houses , Lands , they must new Master's have : Tho' thy vain Heart to Riches was inclin'd , Yet thou alas ! must leave it all behind . LADY . My Heart is cold , I tremble at the News , Here's Bags of Gold if thou wilt me excuse , And seize on those , thus finish thou the Strife , With such who are now weary of their Life . Are there not many bound in Prison strong , In bitter Grief of Soul have languish'd long , And fain would find a Grave , a Place of Rest , From all their Griefs , in which they are oppressed ; Beside there's many with their hoary Heads , And Palsy Joints , by which their Joys are fled ; Release thou them whose Grief and Sorrow's great , And spare my Life to have a longer Date . DEATH . Tho' they with Age are full of Grief and Pain ; Till their appointed Time they must remain . I come to none before my Warrant's seal'd , And when it is , they must submit and yield : I take no Bribe , believe me it is true , Prepare yourself to go , I come for you . LADY . Death , be not so severe , let me obtain A little longer Time to live and reign ; Fain would I stay , if thou my Life would spare ; I have a Daughter beautiful and fair ; I'd live to see her wed , whom I adore , Grant me but this , and then I ask no more . DEATH . This is a slender , frivolous Excuse , I have you fast , and will not let you lose ; Leave her to Providence , for you must go Along with me , whither you will or no . I Death command great Kings to leave their Crown , And at my Foot they lay their Sceptres down : If not to Kings I will this Favour give , But cut them down , can you expect to live Beyond the Limits of your Time and Space ? No , I must send you to another Pl [ ace . ] LADY . You learned Doctors now display your Skill , And let not Death of me ob [ ta ] ain [ h ] i [ s ] W [ ill . ] Prepare your Cordials , let me Comfort fi [ and ] My Gold shall fly like Chaff before the Wind. DEATH . Forbear to call , their Skill will never do , They are but Mortals here as well as you ; I give the fatal Wound , my Dart is sure , 'Tis far beyond a Doctor's Skill to cure . To purchase Life , rather than yield to die , How freely would you let your Silver fly , But while you flourish'd here all in your Store , You could not spare one Penny to the Poor . In all your Pomp the Poor then you did hate , And like rich Dives scourg'd them from your Gate ; But tho' you did , those whom you thus did scorn , They like yourself into this World was born : Tho' for your Alms they did both cringe and bow , They boar God's Image here as well as you ; Tho' in his Name a Suit to you they'd make , You would not give one Penny for his Sake ; My Lord beheld wherein you did amiss , And calls you hence to give Account for this . LADY . O heavy News ! must I no longer stay ? How shall stand , good God , at that great Day ! Down from her Eyes her dying Tears did flow , And said , There's none knows what I undergo : Upon a Bed of Sorrow here I lie , My carnal Life makes me afraid to die , My Sins alas ! are many , gross , and foul , But Heaven still have Mercy on my Soul ; And tho' I do deserve thy righteous Frown , Yet , pardon Lord , and pour a Blessing down . Then with a dying Sighs her Heart did break , And did the Pleasures of the World forsake . Here you may see the high and mighty fallen , For Death he shows no Respect at all , To any one , of high or low Degree , Great Men submit to Death as well as we ; Tho' they are gay , their Lives are but a Span , A Lump of Clay , so poor a Creature's Man Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . THE Great MESSENGER of MORTALITY ; Or , a DIALOGUE betwixt DEATH and a beautiful LADY . From whence it appears that Death is no Respecter of Persons either for Birth or Beauty ; so that as sure as we are born , we shall certainly die : Therefore let us prepare ourselves against that Hour and Time , that he may appear as a welcome Messenger , that brings glad Tidings . Tune of , Farewell my Heart's Delight . DEATH . FAIR Lady , lay your costly Robes aside , No longer may you glory in your Pride ; Take leave of all your carnal vain Delight , For I come to summon you away this Night . LADY . What bold Attempt is this ? Pray let me know , From whence you come and whither must I go ? Shall I who am a Lady , yield or bow To such a pale fac'd Visage ; who art thou ? DEATH . Do you not know me ? Well , I'll tell you then , 'Tis I that conquers all the Sons of Men ; No Pitch of Honour from my Dart is free , My Name is Death , have you not herd of me ? LADY . Yes , I have herd of thee Time after Time , But being in the Glory of my Prime , I did not think thou would'st have call'd so soon , Why must my Morning Sun be turn'd to Noon ? DEATH . Talk not of Noon thou may'st as well be mute This is no Time at all for to dispute ; Your richest Jewels , Gold , and Garments brave , Your Houses , Lands , they must new Master's have : Tho' thy vain Heart to Riches was inclin'd , Yet thou alas ! must leave it all behind . LADY . My Heart is cold , I tremble at the News , Here's Bags of Gold if thou wilt me excuse , And seize on those , thus finish thou the Strife , With such who are now weary of their Life . Are there not many bound in Prison strong , In bitter Grief of Soul have languish'd long , And fain would find a Grave , a Place of Rest , From all their Griefs , in which they are oppressed ; Beside there's many with their hoary Heads , And Palsy Joints , by which their Joys are fled ; Release thou them whose Grief and Sorrow's great , And spare my Life to have a longer Date . DEATH . Tho' they with Age are full of Grief and Pain ; Till their appointed Time they must remain . I come to none before my Warrant's seal'd , And when it is , they must submit and yield : I take no Bribe , believe me it is true , Prepare yourself to go , I come for you . LADY . Death , be not so severe , let me obtain A little longer Time to live and reign ; Fain would I stay , if thou my Life would spare ; I have a Daughter beautiful and fair ; I'd live to see her wed , whom I adore , Grant me but this , and then I ask no more . DEATH . This is a slender , frivolous Excuse , I have you fast , and will not let you lose ; Leave her to Providence , for you must go Along with me , whither you will or no . I Death command great Kings to leave their Crown , And at my Foot they lay their Sceptres down : If not to Kings I will this Favour give , But cut them down , can you expect to live Beyond the Limits of your Time and Space ? No , I must send you to another Pl [ ace . ] LADY . You learned Doctors now display your Skill , And let not Death of me ob [ ta ] ain [ h ] i [ s ] W [ ill . ] Prepare your Cordials , let me Comfort fi [ and ] My Gold shall fly like Chaff before the Wind. DEATH . Forbear to call , their Skill will never do , They are but Mortals here as well as you ; I give the fatal Wound , my Dart is sure , 'Tis far beyond a Doctor's Skill to cure . To purchase Life , rather than yield to die , How freely would you let your Silver fly , But while you flourish'd here all in your Store , You could not spare one Penny to the Poor . In all your Pomp the Poor then you did hate , And like rich Dives scourg'd them from your Gate ; But tho' you did , those whom you thus did scorn , They like yourself into this World was born : Tho' for your Alms they did both cringe and bow , They boar God's Image here as well as you ; Tho' in his Name a Suit to you they'd make , You would not give one Penny for his Sake ; My Lord beheld wherein you did amiss , And calls you hence to give Account for this . LADY . O heavy News ! must I no longer stay ? How shall stand , good God , at that great Day ! Down from her Eyes her dying Tears did flow , And said , There's none knows what I undergo : Upon a Bed of Sorrow here I lie , My carnal Life makes me afraid to die , My Sins alas ! are many , gross , and foul , But Heaven still have Mercy on my Soul ; And tho' I do deserve thy righteous Frown , Yet , pardon Lord , and pour a Blessing down . Then with a dying Sighs her Heart did break , And did the Pleasures of the World forsake . Here you may see the high and mighty fallen , For Death he shows no Respect at all , To any one , of high or low Degree , Great Men submit to Death as well as we ; Tho' they are gay , their Lives are but a Span , A Lump of Clay , so poor a Creature's Man Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . 