The Clothiers Deligh OR , The Rich Men's Joy , and the Poor Men's Sorrow . Wherein is expressed the craftiness and subtlety of many Clothiers in England , by beating down their Workmen's wages . Combers , Weavers , and Spinners , for little gains , Does Earn their money by taking of hard pains . To the Tune of , Jenny come tie me , etc Packington's Pound , Or , Monk hath confounded , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . By T. Lanfiere . OF all sorts of callings that in England be , There is none that lives so gallant as we ; Our Trading maintains us as brave as a Knight , We live at our pleasure , and takes deligh We heapeth up riches and treasure great store , Which we get by gripping and grinding the poor , And this is a way for to fill up our purse , Although we do get it with many a Curse . Throughout the whole Kingdom in Country and Town : There is no danger of our Trade going down , So long as the Comber can work with his Comb , And also the Weaver weave in his Lomb : The Tucker and Spinner that spins all the year , We will make them to earn their wages full dear ; and this is the way , etc In former ages we us'd to give , So that our Workfolks like Farmers did live ; But the times are altered , we will make them know , All we can for to bring them all under our Bow : We will make them ta work hard for Sixpence a day , Though a shilling they deserve if they had their just pay : and this is the way , etc And first for the Combers we will bring them down , From Eight-groats a score unto Half a Crown : I at all they murmer , and say 'tis too small , We bid them chosen whither they will work at all . We'l make them believe that Trading is bad , We care not a pin , though they are ne'r so sad : and this is the way , etc We'l make the poor Weavers work at a low rate , We'l find fault where's no fault , and so we will bore : If Trading grows dead we will presently show it , But if it grows good they shall never know i We'l tell them that Cloth beyond-Sea will not go , We care not whither we keep clothing or no : and this is the way , etc Then next for the Spinners we shall ensue , We'l make them spin three pound instead of two ; When they bring home their work unto us , they complain And say that their wages will not them maintain : But if that and Ounce of weight that [ ey ] do lack , Then for to bore three pence we will not be slack : and this is he way , etc But if it holds weight , then their wages they crave , We have god no money , and what's that you'd have ? We have Bred and Bacon , and Butter that's good , With Out-meal and Salt that is wholesome for food ; We have Soap and Candles whereby to give light , That you may work by them so long as you have sighs and this is the way , etc We will make the Tucker and Shereman understand , That they with their wages shall never buy Land : Though heretofore they have been lofty and high , Yet now we will make them submit humbly ; We will lighten their wages as low as may be , We will keep them under in every degree : and this is the way , etc When we go to Market our workmen are glad , But when we come home then we do look sad , We fit in the corner as if our hearts did ache , We tell them 'tis not a penny we can take : We plead poverty before we have need , And thus we do coaks them most bravely indeed : and this is the way , etc But if to and Alehouse they Customers be , Then presently with the Alewife we agree , When we come to a reckoning , then we do crave Twopence on a Shilling , and that we will have ; By such cunning ways we our treasure do get , For it is all Fish that does come to our Ne and this is the way , etc And thus we do gain all our Wealth and Estate , By many poor men that works early and late ; If it were not for those that do labour full hard , We might go and hang our selves without regard : The Combers , and Weavers , and Tuckers also , With the Spinners that works for Wages full low : By these peoples labours we fill up our purse , etc Then heigh for the Clothing-trade , it goes on brave , We scorn for to toil and moil , nor yet to slave ; Our Workmen do work hard , but we live at ease , We go when we will , and come when we please : We hoard up our bags of silver and Gold , But conscience and charity with us is cold : By poor peoples labour we fill up our purse , Although we do get it with many a curse . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke The Clothiers Deligh OR , The Rich Men's Joy , and the Poor Men's Sorrow . Wherein is expressed the craftiness and subtlety of many Clothiers in England , by beating down their Workmen's wages . Combers , Weavers , and Spinners , for little gains , Does Earn their money by taking of hard pains . To the Tune of , Jenny come tie me , etc Packington's Pound , Or , Monk hath confounded , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . By T. Lanfiere . OF all sorts of callings that in England be , There is none that lives so gallant as we ; Our Trading maintains us as brave as a Knight , We live at our pleasure , and takes deligh We heapeth up riches and treasure great store , Which we get by gripping and grinding the poor , And this is a way for to fill up our purse , Although we do get it with many a Curse . Throughout the whole Kingdom in Country and Town : There is no danger of our Trade going down , So long as the Comber can work with his Comb , And also the Weaver weave in his Lomb : The Tucker and Spinner that spins all the year , We will make them to earn their wages full dear ; and this is the way , etc In former ages we us'd to give , So that our Workfolks like Farmers did live ; But the times are altered , we will make them know , All we can for to bring them all under our Bow : We will make them ta work hard for Sixpence a day , Though a shilling they deserve if they had their just pay : and this is the way , etc And first for the Combers we will bring them down , From Eight-groats a score unto Half a Crown : I at all they murmer , and say 'tis too small , We bid them chosen whither they will work at all . We'l make them believe that Trading is bad , We care not a pin , though they are ne'r so sad : and this is the way , etc We'l make the poor Weavers work at a low rate , We'l find fault where's no fault , and so we will bore : If Trading grows dead we will presently show it , But if it grows good they shall never know i We'l tell them that Cloth beyond-Sea will not go , We care not whither we keep clothing or no : and this is the way , etc Then next for the Spinners we shall ensue , We'l make them spin three pound instead of two ; When they bring home their work unto us , they complain And say that their wages will not them maintain : But if that and Ounce of weight that [ ey ] do lack , Then for to bore three pence we will not be slack : and this is he way , etc But if it holds weight , then their wages they crave , We have god no money , and what's that you'd have ? We have Bred and Bacon , and Butter that's good , With Out-meal and Salt that is wholesome for food ; We have Soap and Candles whereby to give light , That you may work by them so long as you have sighs and this is the way , etc We will make the Tucker and Shereman understand , That they with their wages shall never buy Land : Though heretofore they have been lofty and high , Yet now we will make them submit humbly ; We will lighten their wages as low as may be , We will keep them under in every degree : and this is the way , etc When we go to Market our workmen are glad , But when we come home then we do look sad , We fit in the corner as if our hearts did ache , We tell them 'tis not a penny we can take : We plead poverty before we have need , And thus we do coaks them most bravely indeed : and this is the way , etc But if to and Alehouse they Customers be , Then presently with the Alewife we agree , When we come to a reckoning , then we do crave Twopence on a Shilling , and that we will have ; By such cunning ways we our treasure do get , For it is all Fish that does come to our Ne and this is the way , etc And thus we do gain all our Wealth and Estate , By many poor men that works early and late ; If it were not for those that do labour full hard , We might go and hang our selves without regard : The Combers , and Weavers , and Tuckers also , With the Spinners that works for Wages full low : By these peoples labours we fill up our purse , etc Then heigh for the Clothing-trade , it goes on brave , We scorn for to toil and moil , nor yet to slave ; Our Workmen do work hard , but we live at ease , We go when we will , and come when we please : We hoard up our bags of silver and Gold , But conscience and charity with us is cold : By poor peoples labour we fill up our purse , Although we do get it with many a curse . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke The Clothiers Deligh OR , The Rich Men's Joy , and the Poor Men's Sorrow . Wherein is expressed the craftiness and subtlety of many Clothiers in England , by beating down their Workmen's wages . Combers , Weavers , and Spinners , for little gains , Does Earn their money by taking of hard pains . To the Tune of , Jenny come tie me , etc Packington's Pound , Or , Monk hath confounded , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . By T. Lanfiere . OF all sorts of callings that in England be , There is none that lives so gallant as we ; Our Trading maintains us as brave as a Knight , We live at our pleasure , and takes deligh We heapeth up riches and treasure great store , Which we get by gripping and grinding the poor , And this is a way for to fill up our purse , Although we do get it with many a Curse . Throughout the whole Kingdom in Country and Town : There is no danger of our Trade going down , So long as the Comber can work with his Comb , And also the Weaver weave in his Lomb : The Tucker and Spinner that spins all the year , We will make them to earn their wages full dear ; and this is the way , etc In former ages we us'd to give , So that our Workfolks like Farmers did live ; But the times are altered , we will make them know , All we can for to bring them all under our Bow : We will make them ta work hard for Sixpence a day , Though a shilling they deserve if they had their just pay : and this is the way , etc And first for the Combers we will bring them down , From Eight-groats a score unto Half a Crown : I at all they murmer , and say 'tis too small , We bid them chosen whither they will work at all . We'l make them believe that Trading is bad , We care not a pin , though they are ne'r so sad : and this is the way , etc We'l make the poor Weavers work at a low rate , We'l find fault where's no fault , and so we will bore : If Trading grows dead we will presently show it , But if it grows good they shall never know i We'l tell them that Cloth beyond-Sea will not go , We care not whither we keep clothing or no : and this is the way , etc Then next for the Spinners we shall ensue , We'l make them spin three pound instead of two ; When they bring home their work unto us , they complain And say that their wages will not them maintain : But if that and Ounce of weight that [ ey ] do lack , Then for to bore three pence we will not be slack : and this is he way , etc But if it holds weight , then their wages they crave , We have god no money , and what's that you'd have ? We have Bred and Bacon , and Butter that's good , With Out-meal and Salt that is wholesome for food ; We have Soap and Candles whereby to give light , That you may work by them so long as you have sighs and this is the way , etc We will make the Tucker and Shereman understand , That they with their wages shall never buy Land : Though heretofore they have been lofty and high , Yet now we will make them submit humbly ; We will lighten their wages as low as may be , We will keep them under in every degree : and this is the way , etc When we go to Market our workmen are glad , But when we come home then we do look sad , We fit in the corner as if our hearts did ache , We tell them 'tis not a penny we can take : We plead poverty before we have need , And thus we do coaks them most bravely indeed : and this is the way , etc But if to and Alehouse they Customers be , Then presently with the Alewife we agree , When we come to a reckoning , then we do crave Twopence on a Shilling , and that we will have ; By such cunning ways we our treasure do get , For it is all Fish that does come to our Ne and this is the way , etc And thus we do gain all our Wealth and Estate , By many poor men that works early and late ; If it were not for those that do labour full hard , We might go and hang our selves without regard : The Combers , and Weavers , and Tuckers also , With the Spinners that works for Wages full low : By these peoples labours we fill up our purse , etc Then heigh for the Clothing-trade , it goes on brave , We scorn for to toil and moil , nor yet to slave ; Our Workmen do work hard , but we live at ease , We go when we will , and come when we please : We hoard up our bags of silver and Gold , But conscience and charity with us is cold : By poor peoples labour we fill up our purse , Although we do get it with many a curse . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke The Clothiers Deligh OR , The Rich Men's Joy , and the Poor Men's Sorrow . Wherein is expressed the craftiness and subtlety of many Clothiers in England , by beating down their Workmen's wages . Combers , Weavers , and Spinners , for little gains , Does Earn their money by taking of hard pains . To the Tune of , Jenny come tie me , etc Packington's Pound , Or , Monk hath confounded , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . By T. Lanfiere . OF all sorts of callings that in England be , There is none that lives so gallant as we ; Our Trading maintains us as brave as a Knight , We live at our pleasure , and takes deligh We heapeth up riches and treasure great store , Which we get by gripping and grinding the poor , And this is a way for to fill up our purse , Although we do get it with many a Curse . Throughout the whole Kingdom in Country and Town : There is no danger of our Trade going down , So long as the Comber can work with his Comb , And also the Weaver weave in his Lomb : The Tucker and Spinner that spins all the year , We will make them to earn their wages full dear ; and this is the way , etc In former ages we us'd to give , So that our Workfolks like Farmers did live ; But the times are altered , we will make them know , All we can for to bring them all under our Bow : We will make them ta work hard for Sixpence a day , Though a shilling they deserve if they had their just pay : and this is the way , etc And first for the Combers we will bring them down , From Eight-groats a score unto Half a Crown : I at all they murmer , and say 'tis too small , We bid them chosen whither they will work at all . We'l make them believe that Trading is bad , We care not a pin , though they are ne'r so sad : and this is the way , etc We'l make the poor Weavers work at a low rate , We'l find fault where's no fault , and so we will bore : If Trading grows dead we will presently show it , But if it grows good they shall never know i We'l tell them that Cloth beyond-Sea will not go , We care not whither we keep clothing or no : and this is the way , etc Then next for the Spinners we shall ensue , We'l make them spin three pound instead of two ; When they bring home their work unto us , they complain And say that their wages will not them maintain : But if that and Ounce of weight that [ ey ] do lack , Then for to bore three pence we will not be slack : and this is he way , etc But if it holds weight , then their wages they crave , We have god no money , and what's that you'd have ? We have Bred and Bacon , and Butter that's good , With Out-meal and Salt that is wholesome for food ; We have Soap and Candles whereby to give light , That you may work by them so long as you have sighs and this is the way , etc We will make the Tucker and Shereman understand , That they with their wages shall never buy Land : Though heretofore they have been lofty and high , Yet now we will make them submit humbly ; We will lighten their wages as low as may be , We will keep them under in every degree : and this is the way , etc When we go to Market our workmen are glad , But when we come home then we do look sad , We fit in the corner as if our hearts did ache , We tell them 'tis not a penny we can take : We plead poverty before we have need , And thus we do coaks them most bravely indeed : and this is the way , etc But if to and Alehouse they Customers be , Then presently with the Alewife we agree , When we come to a reckoning , then we do crave Twopence on a Shilling , and that we will have ; By such cunning ways we our treasure do get , For it is all Fish that does come to our Ne and this is the way , etc And thus we do gain all our Wealth and Estate , By many poor men that works early and late ; If it were not for those that do labour full hard , We might go and hang our selves without regard : The Combers , and Weavers , and Tuckers also , With the Spinners that works for Wages full low : By these peoples labours we fill up our purse , etc Then heigh for the Clothing-trade , it goes on brave , We scorn for to toil and moil , nor yet to slave ; Our Workmen do work hard , but we live at ease , We go when we will , and come when we please : We hoard up our bags of silver and Gold , But conscience and charity with us is cold : By poor peoples labour we fill up our purse , Although we do get it with many a curse . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke 