v Neptune's Raging Fury : OR , THE Gallant Seaman's Sufferings . Being a Relation of their Perils and Dangers , and of the extraordinary Hazards they undergo in their noble Adventures . Together with their undaunted Valour and rare Constancy in all their Extremities : and the manner of their Rejoicing on Shore , at their return home . Tune of , When the Stormy Winds do blow , etc YOu Gentlemen of England , that lives at home at ease , Full little do you think upon the dangers of the Seas : Give ear unto the Mariners , and they will plainly show , The cares and the fears when the stormy winds do blow . All you that will be Seamen , must bear a valiant heart , For when you come upon the Seas , you must not think to start , Nor once to be fainthearted in hail , rain or snow , Nor to shrink , nor to shrink when the stormy winds do blow . The bitter storms and tempests poor Seamen must endure , Both day & night , with many a fright , we seldom rest secure ; Our sleep it is disturbed , with visions strange to know , And with dreams on the streams , when the stormy winds do blow . In claps of roaring thunder which darkness does enforce , We often find our ships to stray , beyond our wanted course ; Which causeth great distractions , and sinks our hearts full low , 'Tis in vain to complain when the stormy winds do blow . Sometime in Neptune's bosom our ships is tossed in waves , And every man expecting the Sea to be their graves : Then up aloft she mounts , and down again so low : 'Tis with waves , Oh with waves when the stormy winds do blow . Then down again we fallen to prayer : with all our might and thought , When refuge all does fail us , 'tis that must bear us out , To God we call for succour , for he it is we know , That must aid us , and save us when the stormy winds do blow . The Lawyer and the Usurer , that sits in gown of fur , In closets warm can take no harm , abroad they need not stir ; When winter fierce with cold does pierce and beats with hail and snow , We are sure to endure , when the stormy winds do blow . We bring home costly merchandise , and jewels of great price , To serve our English gallantry , with many a rare device : To please the English gallantry , our pains we freely show , For we toil and we moil when the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to the Indies , to fetch home spices rare , Sometime 'gain to France and Spain , for wines beyond compare ; While gallants are carousing in taverns on a row , Then we sweep o'er the deep , when the stormy winds do blow . When tempest are blown over , and greatest fears are past , Ay , weather fair , and temperate air , we straight lie down to res But when the billows tumble , and waves do furious grow , Then we rouse up , up we rouse when the stormy winds do blow . If enemies oppose us , when England is at wars , With any Foreign Nations , we fear not wounds and scares ; Our roaring guns shall teach 'em our valour for to know , While they reel in the keel , when the stormy winds do blow . We are no cowardly shrinkers , but English-men true bred , We'll play our parts like valiant hearts and never fly for dread ; We'll ply our business nimbly , where e'er we come or go , With our mates to the Straights , when the stormy winds do blow . Then courage all brave Mariners , and never be dismayed , While we have bold adventures we ne'er shall want a trade ; Our Merchant's will employ us , to fetch them wealth I know ; Then be bold , work for gold , when the stormy winds do blow . When we return in safety , with wages for our pains , The Tapster and the Vintner will help to share our gains , We'l call for liquour roundly , and pay before [ we ] go ; Then we'll roar on the shore , when the stormy winds do blow . London : Printed for A.M. W.O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . v Neptune's Raging Fury : OR , THE Gallant Seaman's Sufferings . Being a Relation of their Perils and Dangers , and of the extraordinary Hazards they undergo in their noble Adventures . Together with their undaunted Valour and rare Constancy in all their Extremities : and the manner of their Rejoicing on Shore , at their return home . Tune of , When the Stormy Winds do blow , etc YOu Gentlemen of England , that lives at home at ease , Full little do you think upon the dangers of the Seas : Give ear unto the Mariners , and they will plainly show , The cares and the fears when the stormy winds do blow . All you that will be Seamen , must bear a valiant heart , For when you come upon the Seas , you must not think to start , Nor once to be fainthearted in hail , rain or snow , Nor to shrink , nor to shrink when the stormy winds do blow . The bitter storms and tempests poor Seamen must endure , Both day & night , with many a fright , we seldom rest secure ; Our sleep it is disturbed , with visions strange to know , And with dreams on the streams , when the stormy winds do blow . In claps of roaring thunder which darkness does enforce , We often find our ships to stray , beyond our wanted course ; Which causeth great distractions , and sinks our hearts full low , 'Tis in vain to complain when the stormy winds do blow . Sometime in Neptune's bosom our ships is tossed in waves , And every man expecting the Sea to be their graves : Then up aloft she mounts , and down again so low : 'Tis with waves , Oh with waves when the stormy winds do blow . Then down again we fallen to prayer : with all our might and thought , When refuge all does fail us , 'tis that must bear us out , To God we call for succour , for he it is we know , That must aid us , and save us when the stormy winds do blow . The Lawyer and the Usurer , that sits in gown of fur , In closets warm can take no harm , abroad they need not stir ; When winter fierce with cold does pierce and beats with hail and snow , We are sure to endure , when the stormy winds do blow . We bring home costly merchandise , and jewels of great price , To serve our English gallantry , with many a rare device : To please the English gallantry , our pains we freely show , For we toil and we moil when the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to the Indies , to fetch home spices rare , Sometime 'gain to France and Spain , for wines beyond compare ; While gallants are carousing in taverns on a row , Then we sweep o'er the deep , when the stormy winds do blow . When tempest are blown over , and greatest fears are past , Ay , weather fair , and temperate air , we straight lie down to res But when the billows tumble , and waves do furious grow , Then we rouse up , up we rouse when the stormy winds do blow . If enemies oppose us , when England is at wars , With any Foreign Nations , we fear not wounds and scares ; Our roaring guns shall teach 'em our valour for to know , While they reel in the keel , when the stormy winds do blow . We are no cowardly shrinkers , but English-men true bred , We'll play our parts like valiant hearts and never fly for dread ; We'll ply our business nimbly , where e'er we come or go , With our mates to the Straights , when the stormy winds do blow . Then courage all brave Mariners , and never be dismayed , While we have bold adventures we ne'er shall want a trade ; Our Merchant's will employ us , to fetch them wealth I know ; Then be bold , work for gold , when the stormy winds do blow . When we return in safety , with wages for our pains , The Tapster and the Vintner will help to share our gains , We'l call for liquour roundly , and pay before [ we ] go ; Then we'll roar on the shore , when the stormy winds do blow . London : Printed for A.M. W.O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . 