The Valiant Virgin ; Or , Phillip and Marry ; In a Description of a Young Gentlewoman of Worcestershire ( a Rich Gentleman's Daughter ) being in love with a Farmers Son , which her Father despising , because he was poor , caus'd him to be Pressed to Sea ; And how she Disguised herself in Man's Apparel and followed him ; where in the same Ship ( she being very expert in Surgery ) was entertain'd as Surgeons Mate , and how loving to him ( and skill - fully to others ) she behaved herself in her Office ; and he having god a Shot in the Thigh , how deligent she was to dress him ; she never discovering herself to him until they came both on Shore : Her Father Dying while she was at Sea , ( He having no more Children then she ) they went into the Country to take Posses - sion of her Estate , and to Marry ; To the admiration of all that were at the Wedding . To the Tune of , When the Stormy Winds do blow . TO every faithful Lover that's constant to her dear , This Ditty does discover Affections pure and clear ; Affections and Afflictions too , do in this Story move , Where Youth , and truth , obtain the Crown of Love . A Man of mean Extraction , brought up in Worcester-shiere , Was guided by Affection to love a Lady dear , Whose eyes did show like morning due , that does on Lilies lie ; Her face , and grace , well mixed with Majesty . She was the only Heiress unto a Gentleman , And all her Father's care is to marry her to one , Whose wealth & wit , may fairly fit a Lady of such worth ; But he , that she did Love , was poor by birth . A Farmers son being handsome , did catch this Ladies heart So fast in hold , no Ransom can free it from the Dar The Gentleman , when he began to understand this thing , Quoth he , I'le free , my found daughter in the spring . The Spring came , & the Pressing was every where begun ; Her Father's fears increasing , did Press the Farmers Son , No money could Redeem him , thought she , if he must go , I'le ne're , stay here , but I'le be a Seaman too . The Second Part , To the same Tune . THe Gentleman did Press him , and sent him to the slaughter , He thought fit to Press the Man that would have pressed his daughter ; His wit prevents , all her intents , for on her knees he brought her ; But one , Love gone , straight the tother follows after . This Maid with Ingenuity had every Surgeons part , A Ladies hand , and Eagles eye , but yet a Lyons heart ; She knew all tents , & instruments , Salves , Ointments , Oils & all , That they , employ , in the fight when Soldiers fallen . In men Aparil she did resolve to try her Fate , And in the Ship where he rid , she went as Surgeons Mate ; Says she , my soldier shall not be destroy'd for want of Cure ; I'le Dress , and Bless , whatsoever I endure . Their names Philip and Marry , who then were both at Sea ; Phil. fought like old King Harry , but from the Enemy Poor Philip had receiv'd a shot , through that part of the thigh , Did join , to's groin , o ! that shot came something nigh . Into the Surgeons Cabin , they did convey him straight , Where first , of all the wounded men . the pretty Surgens Mate , Though in this trim , unknown to him did bravely show her Art , She dressed , and kissed , the woeful wounded part . Which she did most mildly dress , and shed her tears upon't ; He observ'd , but could not guess , or find the meaning on't , Although he wou'd , in tears & blood oft times on Marry call , And pray , she may , be there at his Funeral . Fierce fights at Sea this Couple did valiantly endure , As fast as one did aim to kill , the tother striv'd to cure ; The Soldier , & the Surgens Mate did both employ their parts , That they , each way , did win all the Seamens hearts . The Summer being ended , that they could fight no more , The Ship came to be mended , and all men went a shore ; Stout Philip lov'd the Surgeons Mate so much he could not be And hour , or more , out of his company . He often view'd her Feature , and gaz'd on every part ; ( Quoth Philip ) such a Creature is Mistress of my heart , If she be dead , I'le never wed , but be with thee for ever , We'l walk , and talk , Live , Lie , and Die together . Poor Marry full of passion , to hear him prove so kind , Over joy'd with this Relation , could not conceal her mind , But fondly hangs about his neck , her tears did trickle down , Says she , I'le be , still thy true Companion . Since providence hath vanquish'd the dangers of the Sea , I'le never marry while I live , unless it be with thee : No woman kind , shall ever find my heart to be so free , If thou , wilt vow , but to be as true to me . E're he could speak , she told h [ im , ] I am thy dearest dear , Thy Marry thou hast brought a sh [ over , ] and now thou holdest her here This man's Atire , I did but h [ ire , ] when first I followed thee ; Thy Dove , I'le prove , but no Surgeons Mate am I . He flung his arms about her , he wondered , kissed , and wept ; His Marry he did hold so fast , as if he would have crept Into her soul and body too ; his eyes in joy did swim , And she , as free , was as fully found of him . They both rid towards Worc'ste [ r , ] to show how they had sped ; But upon the Road they herd her Father he was dead , Two months at least , after he pr [ est , ] the Farmers Son for slaughte [ r , ] In tears , appears , the sad duty of a Daughter . Philip having chear'd her up , they rid directly home , Where ( after many a bitter cup [ ) , ] the Marriage day was come , Which they in state , did Celebra [ te , ] the Gallants that were there , Were grave , and brave , all the best in Worc'ster-shire . Thus may you by this Couple s [ ee , ] what from true love does sprin [ g , ] When Men love with fidelity their Mistress ; & their King : when maids show men , true love age [ n , ] in spite of Fortune's frowns , They'l wive , and thrive , for such crosses have their crowns . FINIS . Printed , for Thomas Passenger at that [ e ] three Bibles on London-bridge With Allowance . The Valiant Virgin ; Or , Phillip and Marry ; In a Description of a Young Gentlewoman of Worcestershire ( a Rich Gentleman's Daughter ) being in love with a Farmers Son , which her Father despising , because he was poor , caus'd him to be Pressed to Sea ; And how she Disguised herself in Man's Apparel and followed him ; where in the same Ship ( she being very expert in Surgery ) was entertain'd as Surgeons Mate , and how loving to him ( and skill - fully to others ) she behaved herself in her Office ; and he having god a Shot in the Thigh , how deligent she was to dress him ; she never discovering herself to him until they came both on Shore : Her Father Dying while she was at Sea , ( He having no more Children then she ) they went into the Country to take Posses - sion of her Estate , and to Marry ; To the admiration of all that were at the Wedding . To the Tune of , When the Stormy Winds do blow . TO every faithful Lover that's constant to her dear , This Ditty does discover Affections pure and clear ; Affections and Afflictions too , do in this Story move , Where Youth , and truth , obtain the Crown of Love . A Man of mean Extraction , brought up in Worcester-shiere , Was guided by Affection to love a Lady dear , Whose eyes did show like morning due , that does on Lilies lie ; Her face , and grace , well mixed with Majesty . She was the only Heiress unto a Gentleman , And all her Father's care is to marry her to one , Whose wealth & wit , may fairly fit a Lady of such worth ; But he , that she did Love , was poor by birth . A Farmers son being handsome , did catch this Ladies heart So fast in hold , no Ransom can free it from the Dar The Gentleman , when he began to understand this thing , Quoth he , I'le free , my found daughter in the spring . The Spring came , & the Pressing was every where begun ; Her Father's fears increasing , did Press the Farmers Son , No money could Redeem him , thought she , if he must go , I'le ne're , stay here , but I'le be a Seaman too . The Second Part , To the same Tune . THe Gentleman did Press him , and sent him to the slaughter , He thought fit to Press the Man that would have pressed his daughter ; His wit prevents , all her intents , for on her knees he brought her ; But one , Love gone , straight the tother follows after . This Maid with Ingenuity had every Surgeons part , A Ladies hand , and Eagles eye , but yet a Lyons heart ; She knew all tents , & instruments , Salves , Ointments , Oils & all , That they , employ , in the fight when Soldiers fallen . In men Aparil she did resolve to try her Fate , And in the Ship where he rid , she went as Surgeons Mate ; Says she , my soldier shall not be destroy'd for want of Cure ; I'le Dress , and Bless , whatsoever I endure . Their names Philip and Marry , who then were both at Sea ; Phil. fought like old King Harry , but from the Enemy Poor Philip had receiv'd a shot , through that part of the thigh , Did join , to's groin , o ! that shot came something nigh . Into the Surgeons Cabin , they did convey him straight , Where first , of all the wounded men . the pretty Surgens Mate , Though in this trim , unknown to him did bravely show her Art , She dressed , and kissed , the woeful wounded part . Which she did most mildly dress , and shed her tears upon't ; He observ'd , but could not guess , or find the meaning on't , Although he wou'd , in tears & blood oft times on Marry call , And pray , she may , be there at his Funeral . Fierce fights at Sea this Couple did valiantly endure , As fast as one did aim to kill , the tother striv'd to cure ; The Soldier , & the Surgens Mate did both employ their parts , That they , each way , did win all the Seamens hearts . The Summer being ended , that they could fight no more , The Ship came to be mended , and all men went a shore ; Stout Philip lov'd the Surgeons Mate so much he could not be And hour , or more , out of his company . He often view'd her Feature , and gaz'd on every part ; ( Quoth Philip ) such a Creature is Mistress of my heart , If she be dead , I'le never wed , but be with thee for ever , We'l walk , and talk , Live , Lie , and Die together . Poor Marry full of passion , to hear him prove so kind , Over joy'd with this Relation , could not conceal her mind , But fondly hangs about his neck , her tears did trickle down , Says she , I'le be , still thy true Companion . Since providence hath vanquish'd the dangers of the Sea , I'le never marry while I live , unless it be with thee : No woman kind , shall ever find my heart to be so free , If thou , wilt vow , but to be as true to me . E're he could speak , she told h [ im , ] I am thy dearest dear , Thy Marry thou hast brought a sh [ over , ] and now thou holdest her here This man's Atire , I did but h [ ire , ] when first I followed thee ; Thy Dove , I'le prove , but no Surgeons Mate am I . He flung his arms about her , he wondered , kissed , and wept ; His Marry he did hold so fast , as if he would have crept Into her soul and body too ; his eyes in joy did swim , And she , as free , was as fully found of him . They both rid towards Worc'ste [ r , ] to show how they had sped ; But upon the Road they herd her Father he was dead , Two months at least , after he pr [ est , ] the Farmers Son for slaughte [ r , ] In tears , appears , the sad duty of a Daughter . Philip having chear'd her up , they rid directly home , Where ( after many a bitter cup [ ) , ] the Marriage day was come , Which they in state , did Celebra [ te , ] the Gallants that were there , Were grave , and brave , all the best in Worc'ster-shire . Thus may you by this Couple s [ ee , ] what from true love does sprin [ g , ] When Men love with fidelity their Mistress ; & their King : when maids show men , true love age [ n , ] in spite of Fortune's frowns , They'l wive , and thrive , for such crosses have their crowns . FINIS . Printed , for Thomas Passenger at that [ e ] three Bibles on London-bridge With Allowance . 