The CRIES of LONDON . Tune , The Merry Christ-Church Bells' . HARK ! how the cries in every street Make lanes and allies ring : With their goods and ware both nice and rare , All in a pleasant lofty strain ; Come buy my gudgeons fine and new . Old clothes to change for earthen ware . Come taste and try before you buy , Here's dainty poplin pears . Diddle , diddle , diddle dumplins , ho ! With walnuts nice and brown . Let none despise the merry , merry cries Of famous London-town . Any old clothes , suits , or coats : Come buy my singing-birds . Oranges or lemons . Newcastle salmon . Come buy my ropes of onions , ho ! Come buy my sand , fine silver sand . Two bunches a penny turnips , ho ! I'll change you pins for coney-skins . Maids , do you want any milk below ? Here's and express from Admiral Hawk , That admiral of renown . Let none despise the merry , merry cries Of famous London-town . Maids , have you any kitchen-stuff ? Will you buy fine artichokes ? Come buy my brooms to sweep your rooms . Will you buy my white-heart cabbages , ho ! Come buy my nuts , my fine small nuts , Two cans a penny , crack and try . Here's cherries round , and very found . Maids , shall I sweey your chimneys high ? Tinkle , tinkle , tinkle , goes the tinker's pan , With a merry cheerful found . Let none despise , etc Here's fine herrings , eight a groat . Hight codlins , pies , and tarts . New mackerel I have to fell . Come buy my Wellfleet oysters , ho ! Come buy my whitings fine and new . Wives , shall I mend your husbands horns ? I'll grind your knives to please your wives , And very nicely cut your corns . Maids , have you any hair to fell , Either flaxen , black , or brown ? Let none despise , etc Work for a cooper , maids give ear , I'll hoop your tubs and pails . Come Nell and Sue , and buy my blue . Maids , have you any chairs to mend ? Here's hight spice-gingerbread of the best , Come taste and try before you buy . Here's elder-buds to purge your bloods . But black your shoes is all the cry . Here's hight rice-milk , and barleybroth . Plumb pudding a groat a pound . Let none despise , etc Here's fine rosemary , sage , and thyme . Come buy my ground ivy . Here's fetherfew , gilliflowers and rue . Come buy my knotted marjorum , ho ! Come buy my mint , my fine green mint . Here's fine lavender for your clothes . Here's parsley , and winter-savoury . And heart's-ease , which all do choose . Here's balm and hissop , and cinquefoil , All fine herbs , it is well known . Let none despise , etc Here's pennyroyal and marygolds . Come buy my nettle-tops . Here's watercresses and scurvygrass . Come buy my sage of virtue , ho ! Come buy my wormwood and mugwort . Here's all fine herbs of every sort . Here's southernwood that's very good , Dandelion and houseleek . Here's dragon's-tongue and wood-sorrel . With bears-foot and horehound . Let none despise , etc Here's green coleworts and brocoli . Come buy my radishes . Here's fine savoys , and ripe hautboys . Come buy my young green hastings , ho ! Come buy my beans , right Windsor beans . Twopence a bunch young carrots , ho ! Here's fine nosegays . Ripe strawberries . With ready-pick'd salad also . Here's cauliflowers and asparagus . New prunes twopence a pound . Let none despise , etc Here's cucumbers , spinnage , and French beans . Come buy my nice sallery . Here's parsnips and fine leeks . Coma buy my potatoes , ho ! Come buy my plumbs , and fine ripe plumbs . A groat a pound ripe filberts , ho ! Here's corn-poppies and mulberries . Gooseberries and currants also . Fine nectarines , peaches , and apricots . New rice two pence a pound . Let none despise , etc Buy a rabbit , wild duck , or fat goose . Come buy a choice fat fowl . Plovers , teal , or widgeons , come buy my pigeons . Maids , do you want any smallcoal ? Come buy my shrimps , my fine new shrimps . Two pots a penny , taste and try . Here's fine saloop , both hight and good . But Yorkshire muffins is the cry . Here's trotters , calf's feet , and fine tripes . Barrel figs threepence a pound . Let none despise , etc Here's new-laid eggs for ten a groat . Come buy water'd cod . Here's plaice and dabs , lobsters and crabs . Come buy my maids and flounders , ho ! Come buy my pike , my fine live pike . Twopence a hundred cockles , ho ! Shads , eels , and sprats . Lights for your cats . With haddocks , perch , and tench also . Here's carp and tench , mullets and smelts . Butter sixpence a-pound . Let none despise the merry , merry cries Of famous London-town . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The CRIES of LONDON . Tune , The Merry Christ-Church Bells' . HARK ! how the cries in every street Make lanes and allies ring : With their goods and ware both nice and rare , All in a pleasant lofty strain ; Come buy my gudgeons fine and new . Old clothes to change for earthen ware . Come taste and try before you buy , Here's dainty poplin pears . Diddle , diddle , diddle dumplins , ho ! With walnuts nice and brown . Let none despise the merry , merry cries Of famous London-town . Any old clothes , suits , or coats : Come buy my singing-birds . Oranges or lemons . Newcastle salmon . Come buy my ropes of onions , ho ! Come buy my sand , fine silver sand . Two bunches a penny turnips , ho ! I'll change you pins for coney-skins . Maids , do you want any milk below ? Here's and express from Admiral Hawk , That admiral of renown . Let none despise the merry , merry cries Of famous London-town . Maids , have you any kitchen-stuff ? Will you buy fine artichokes ? Come buy my brooms to sweep your rooms . Will you buy my white-heart cabbages , ho ! Come buy my nuts , my fine small nuts , Two cans a penny , crack and try . Here's cherries round , and very found . Maids , shall I sweey your chimneys high ? Tinkle , tinkle , tinkle , goes the tinker's pan , With a merry cheerful found . Let none despise , etc Here's fine herrings , eight a groat . Hight codlins , pies , and tarts . New mackerel I have to fell . Come buy my Wellfleet oysters , ho ! Come buy my whitings fine and new . Wives , shall I mend your husbands horns ? I'll grind your knives to please your wives , And very nicely cut your corns . Maids , have you any hair to fell , Either flaxen , black , or brown ? Let none despise , etc Work for a cooper , maids give ear , I'll hoop your tubs and pails . Come Nell and Sue , and buy my blue . Maids , have you any chairs to mend ? Here's hight spice-gingerbread of the best , Come taste and try before you buy . Here's elder-buds to purge your bloods . But black your shoes is all the cry . Here's hight rice-milk , and barleybroth . Plumb pudding a groat a pound . Let none despise , etc Here's fine rosemary , sage , and thyme . Come buy my ground ivy . Here's fetherfew , gilliflowers and rue . Come buy my knotted marjorum , ho ! Come buy my mint , my fine green mint . Here's fine lavender for your clothes . Here's parsley , and winter-savoury . And heart's-ease , which all do choose . Here's balm and hissop , and cinquefoil , All fine herbs , it is well known . Let none despise , etc Here's pennyroyal and marygolds . Come buy my nettle-tops . Here's watercresses and scurvygrass . Come buy my sage of virtue , ho ! Come buy my wormwood and mugwort . Here's all fine herbs of every sort . Here's southernwood that's very good , Dandelion and houseleek . Here's dragon's-tongue and wood-sorrel . With bears-foot and horehound . Let none despise , etc Here's green coleworts and brocoli . Come buy my radishes . Here's fine savoys , and ripe hautboys . Come buy my young green hastings , ho ! Come buy my beans , right Windsor beans . Twopence a bunch young carrots , ho ! Here's fine nosegays . Ripe strawberries . With ready-pick'd salad also . Here's cauliflowers and asparagus . New prunes twopence a pound . Let none despise , etc Here's cucumbers , spinnage , and French beans . Come buy my nice sallery . Here's parsnips and fine leeks . Coma buy my potatoes , ho ! Come buy my plumbs , and fine ripe plumbs . A groat a pound ripe filberts , ho ! Here's corn-poppies and mulberries . Gooseberries and currants also . Fine nectarines , peaches , and apricots . New rice two pence a pound . Let none despise , etc Buy a rabbit , wild duck , or fat goose . Come buy a choice fat fowl . Plovers , teal , or widgeons , come buy my pigeons . Maids , do you want any smallcoal ? Come buy my shrimps , my fine new shrimps . Two pots a penny , taste and try . Here's fine saloop , both hight and good . But Yorkshire muffins is the cry . Here's trotters , calf's feet , and fine tripes . Barrel figs threepence a pound . Let none despise , etc Here's new-laid eggs for ten a groat . Come buy water'd cod . Here's plaice and dabs , lobsters and crabs . Come buy my maids and flounders , ho ! Come buy my pike , my fine live pike . Twopence a hundred cockles , ho ! Shads , eels , and sprats . Lights for your cats . With haddocks , perch , and tench also . Here's carp and tench , mullets and smelts . Butter sixpence a-pound . Let none despise the merry , merry cries Of famous London-town . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 