THE LORD's LAMENTATION ; OR THE WHITTINGTON Defeat . ----- Immensas Surgens ferit aurea clamor Sydera ; ------ Saevit atrox Volscens --- VIRG . AEn . GOD prosper long our noble KING ! Our Life's and Safeties all : A Woeful Horserace , late there did At Whittington befall . Great B ----- d's Duke , a mighty Prince ! A Solemn Vow did make ; His Pleasure in fair Staffordshire , Three Summer's Days to take . At once to grace , his Father's Raze And to confound his Foes , But ah ! ( With Grief , my Muse does Speak , ) A Luckless Time he chosen . For some rude Clowns who long had felt The Weight of Tax and Levy , Explain'd their Case unto his G ----- e , By Arguments full heavy . 'No G --- w'r , they cry'd ! no Tool of Pow'r ! 'At that the E -- l turn'd Pale : 'No G -- w'r , no G -- w'r , no Tool of Pow'r ! ' Re-echo'd from each Dale : Then B ----- d's mighty Breast took Fire , Who thus inrag'd did cry , 'To Horse my Lords , my Knights my 'Squires ; 'We'll be Reveng'd , or Die . ' They mounted straight all Men of Birth , Captains of Land and Sea ; No Prince or Potentate on Earth , Had such a Troop as he . Great Lords , and Lordlings close conjoin'd , A Shining Squadron stood : But to their Cost , the Yeoman Host , Did prove the better Blood . 'A G -- w'r , a G -- w'r ! the Son o' th' Whore , 'Vile Spawn of Babylon ! ' This said , his Grace did mend his Pace , And came full fiercely on . Three Times he smote a sturdy Foe ; Who undismay'd reply'd , 'Or be thou Devil , or be thou WORSER --- e , 'Thy Courage shall be try'd . ' The Charge began ; but on one Side , Some Slackness there was found ; The smart Cockade in Dust was laid , And Trampled on the Ground . Some felt soar Thwacks , upon their Backs , Some , Pains within their Bowels ; All who did Joke the Royal Oak , Were well Rubb'd with its Towels . Then Terror seiz'd , the plumed Troop , Who turn'd themselves to Flight ; Foul Rout and Fear , brought up the Rear : Oh! 'twas a piteous Sighed ! ---- Each Warrior Urg'd his Nimble Steed ; But none durst look behind ; Th' Insulting Foe , they well did know , Had god 'em in the Wind. Who ne'er lost Scent , until they came , Unto the Gallow-tree : 'Now said their Foes , we'ell not oppose 'Your certain Destiny . 'No Farther Help of ours the lack , 'Gra'-mercy with your Doom ! 'Trust to the Care o' th' Three Legg'd-mare 'She'll bring you All safe Home . ' Then wheel'd about , with this old Shout , 'Confusion to the R ------ p. Leaving each Knight , to mourn his Plighted , Beneath the Triple-stumpt . ----- Now Heaven preserve such Hearts as these , From Secret Treachery ! Who hate a Knave , and scorn a Slave , May such be ever free . FINIS . THE LORD's LAMENTATION ; OR THE WHITTINGTON Defeat . ----- Immensas Surgens ferit aurea clamor Sydera ; ------ Saevit atrox Volscens --- VIRG . AEn . GOD prosper long our noble KING ! Our Life's and Safeties all : A Woeful Horserace , late there did At Whittington befall . Great B ----- d's Duke , a mighty Prince ! A Solemn Vow did make ; His Pleasure in fair Staffordshire , Three Summer's Days to take . At once to grace , his Father's Raze And to confound his Foes , But ah ! ( With Grief , my Muse does Speak , ) A Luckless Time he chosen . For some rude Clowns who long had felt The Weight of Tax and Levy , Explain'd their Case unto his G ----- e , By Arguments full heavy . 'No G --- w'r , they cry'd ! no Tool of Pow'r ! 'At that the E -- l turn'd Pale : 'No G -- w'r , no G -- w'r , no Tool of Pow'r ! ' Re-echo'd from each Dale : Then B ----- d's mighty Breast took Fire , Who thus inrag'd did cry , 'To Horse my Lords , my Knights my 'Squires ; 'We'll be Reveng'd , or Die . ' They mounted straight all Men of Birth , Captains of Land and Sea ; No Prince or Potentate on Earth , Had such a Troop as he . Great Lords , and Lordlings close conjoin'd , A Shining Squadron stood : But to their Cost , the Yeoman Host , Did prove the better Blood . 'A G -- w'r , a G -- w'r ! the Son o' th' Whore , 'Vile Spawn of Babylon ! ' This said , his Grace did mend his Pace , And came full fiercely on . Three Times he smote a sturdy Foe ; Who undismay'd reply'd , 'Or be thou Devil , or be thou WORSER --- e , 'Thy Courage shall be try'd . ' The Charge began ; but on one Side , Some Slackness there was found ; The smart Cockade in Dust was laid , And Trampled on the Ground . Some felt soar Thwacks , upon their Backs , Some , Pains within their Bowels ; All who did Joke the Royal Oak , Were well Rubb'd with its Towels . Then Terror seiz'd , the plumed Troop , Who turn'd themselves to Flight ; Foul Rout and Fear , brought up the Rear : Oh! 'twas a piteous Sighed ! ---- Each Warrior Urg'd his Nimble Steed ; But none durst look behind ; Th' Insulting Foe , they well did know , Had god 'em in the Wind. Who ne'er lost Scent , until they came , Unto the Gallow-tree : 'Now said their Foes , we'ell not oppose 'Your certain Destiny . 'No Farther Help of ours the lack , 'Gra'-mercy with your Doom ! 'Trust to the Care o' th' Three Legg'd-mare 'She'll bring you All safe Home . ' Then wheel'd about , with this old Shout , 'Confusion to the R ------ p. Leaving each Knight , to mourn his Plighted , Beneath the Triple-stumpt . ----- Now Heaven preserve such Hearts as these , From Secret Treachery ! Who hate a Knave , and scorn a Slave , May such be ever free . FINIS . 