And Old BALLAD of WHITTINGTON and his CAT . Who from a poor BOY , came to be THRICE LORD - MAYOR of LONDON . HERE I must tell the praise of worthy Whittington , Known to be in his days Lord-Mayor of London . But of poor parents born was he , we hear , And in his youth brought up in Somersetshire Poorly then up to London came this simple lad , And with a merchant soon a dwelling had : And in the kitchen plac'd , a scullion for to be , And a long time he pass'd his labour drugingly . His daily labour was turning spits at the fire , To scour pots for a poor scullion's hire . Meat and drink his pay , of coin he had no store , And to run away in secret thus he boar : So from the merchant Whittington secretly Into the country run , to purchase liberty . But as he went along in a fine summer's morn , London bells' sweetly rung , Turn again Whittington Evermore sounding so , Turn again Whittington , For thou in time shalt be Lord mayor of London , Whereupon back came Whittington with speed , A servant to remain , as the Lord had decreed . Still blessed be the bells' , this was the daily song , That my Good fortune tell ; most sweetly have they rung , If God so favours me , I will not be unkind , London my Love shall see , and my bounty find . But for this happy chance , this scullion had a cat , That did his fame advance , and him wealth go . Whittington had no more but his poor cat then , Which to the ship he boar like a valiant man . Venturing the same , says he , I may get store of gold , And the Mayor of London be , the bells' have me told Whittington's merchandise carried unto the land , Troubled with rats and mice as we do understand , The king who there reign'd , as at dinner sat , Daily in fear remain'd of many a mouse and ra Meat that on trenchers lay , no way could they keep safe , But by rats torn away , fearing no whip or staff . Hereupon they brought , Whittington's fine cat , By the king was bought , heaps of gold given for that . Home again they high , with their ship laden so , Whittington's wealth by his cat began to go . A scullions life he forsook , to be a merchant good , And soon began to look how his credit stood . After he was chosen Sheriff of the city we hear , And then quickly rose , as it does appear . For the cities grace , Sir Richard Whittington , Came to be in his days thrice Lord Mayor of London . His Fame to advance , thousands he lent the king To maintain war in France , glory from thence to bring . And after a feast , which he the King did make , He burned the note in Jest , and would no money take Prisoners cherish'd were , widows comfort founp Good deeds far and near by him were done , Whittington's College is one of his charities , Newgate he built , where many prisoner lies . Many more deeds were done by Whittington , Which joy and comfort bring to those that look on . Somerset , thou hast bred the flower of charity , Altho' he's dead and gone , yet he lives lastingly . Call him back no more to live in London , Those bells' that call'd him back , Turn again Whittington . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , London . And Old BALLAD of WHITTINGTON and his CAT . Who from a poor BOY , came to be THRICE LORD - MAYOR of LONDON . HERE I must tell the praise of worthy Whittington , Known to be in his days Lord-Mayor of London . But of poor parents born was he , we hear , And in his youth brought up in Somersetshire Poorly then up to London came this simple lad , And with a merchant soon a dwelling had : And in the kitchen plac'd , a scullion for to be , And a long time he pass'd his labour drugingly . His daily labour was turning spits at the fire , To scour pots for a poor scullion's hire . Meat and drink his pay , of coin he had no store , And to run away in secret thus he boar : So from the merchant Whittington secretly Into the country run , to purchase liberty . But as he went along in a fine summer's morn , London bells' sweetly rung , Turn again Whittington Evermore sounding so , Turn again Whittington , For thou in time shalt be Lord mayor of London , Whereupon back came Whittington with speed , A servant to remain , as the Lord had decreed . Still blessed be the bells' , this was the daily song , That my Good fortune tell ; most sweetly have they rung , If God so favours me , I will not be unkind , London my Love shall see , and my bounty find . But for this happy chance , this scullion had a cat , That did his fame advance , and him wealth go . Whittington had no more but his poor cat then , Which to the ship he boar like a valiant man . Venturing the same , says he , I may get store of gold , And the Mayor of London be , the bells' have me told Whittington's merchandise carried unto the land , Troubled with rats and mice as we do understand , The king who there reign'd , as at dinner sat , Daily in fear remain'd of many a mouse and ra Meat that on trenchers lay , no way could they keep safe , But by rats torn away , fearing no whip or staff . Hereupon they brought , Whittington's fine cat , By the king was bought , heaps of gold given for that . Home again they high , with their ship laden so , Whittington's wealth by his cat began to go . A scullions life he forsook , to be a merchant good , And soon began to look how his credit stood . After he was chosen Sheriff of the city we hear , And then quickly rose , as it does appear . For the cities grace , Sir Richard Whittington , Came to be in his days thrice Lord Mayor of London . His Fame to advance , thousands he lent the king To maintain war in France , glory from thence to bring . And after a feast , which he the King did make , He burned the note in Jest , and would no money take Prisoners cherish'd were , widows comfort founp Good deeds far and near by him were done , Whittington's College is one of his charities , Newgate he built , where many prisoner lies . Many more deeds were done by Whittington , Which joy and comfort bring to those that look on . Somerset , thou hast bred the flower of charity , Altho' he's dead and gone , yet he lives lastingly . Call him back no more to live in London , Those bells' that call'd him back , Turn again Whittington . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , London . 