A CHOICE Pennyworth of WIT . HERE is a Pennyworth of Wit , for those that ever went astray It warning they will take by it , I will do them good another day . It is a Touchstone of true Love , Betwixt a Harlot and a Wife , The former does destructive prove , The latter yields the Joys of Life . As in this Book you may behold , Set forth by Mr. William Lane , A wealthy Merchant brave and bold , Who did a Harlot long maintain . Although a Virtuous Wife he had , Likewise a youthful Daughter dear , which might have made his heart full glad Yet them he never would come near . The Traffic which he Traded for On the tempestuous Ocean wide , His Harlot had it brought to her , But nothing to his Virtuous Bride . The finest Silks that could be bought Nay Jewels , Rubies & Dimond Rings , He to his wanton Harlot brought , With many other costly things . She still receiv'd them with a smile When he came from the roaring Seas , And said with words as smooth as Oil , My dearest come and take thy ease . To thy soft Bed and Linen fine , Thou art right welcome , Love said she , Both I and all that here is mine , Shall still at thy Devotion be . He brought 200 l. in Gold , And after that 300 more , Rich Chains and Jewels manifold , And bid her lay them up in store . Aye that I will thou need'st not fear , And so embrac'd him with a kiss , Then took the wealth and said my dear , I'll have a special care of this . Then did they banquet many days : Feasting on Delicious Fare , Thus by her false deluding ways , She drew him in a fatal Snare . When he had liv'd sometime on shore He must go to the Seas again , With Traffic to increase his store , The wanton Harlot to Maintain . To whom he said , My Joy and Dear , What Venture will you send . A good return thou needest not fear , I'll be thy Factor & thy Friend . In Goods my dear I'll send above , Ten Pounds thou shalt take on Board I know that unto me my dear , A trible gain thou wilt afford . This said next to his wife he goes , And ask'd her in a scornful wise What Venture she would then propose To send by him for Merchandise . I'll send a Penny love by thee , Be sure yond take great care of it ; When you're in Foreign Parts said she , Pray Buy a Pennyworth of Wit . She laid the Penny in his Hand , And said I pray now don't forget ; When you are in another Land , To Buy a Pennyworth of Wit . He put the Penny up secure , And said I'll take a special care , To lay it out you may be sure : So to his Miss he did repair . And told her what he was to Buy , At which she laugh'd his Wife to scorn On Board he went immediately And so to Sea that very Morn . PART II NOw they are gone with merry hearts The Merchant and his jovial Crew From Port to Port in Foreign Parts TO Trade as they were wont to do . At length when he had well bestow'd The Cargo which was outward-bound , He did his Trading vessel Load With the Rich Treasure which he found . As he his Merchandise still sent , They turn'd to Gems and Golden Oar , Which crown'd his labour with content , He never was so Rich before . The wanton Harlots venture then Did turn to great Account likewise For e'ery Pound she should have Ten , Such was his lucky Merchandise . For joy of which the Merchant cry One merry bout my Lads shall have A splendid supper I'll provide , Of all the Dainties you can crave Before we set to Sea again . Which said they to a Tavern went , Where they did drink and feast amain , Till Crowns and Pounds were spent . The Merchant then with laughter mov'd , Said he for Wit had never thought , My Harlot's venture is improv'd , But of my Wife's I never thought . One single Penny , and no more She has a venture sent by me , I was to lay it out therefore In what you think a Rarity . She bid me use my utmost Skill To Buy a Pennyworth of Wit , But I have kept the Penny still , And ne'er so much as thought of it . Where shall I go to lay it out True Wit is hard and scarce to find But come my Lads lets Drink about , My Wife's small venture I'll not mind . There is a Proverb often us'd , Wit's never good till bought full dear , Therefore I well may be excus'd There's little for a Penny here . And Aged Father sitting by Whose venerable Locks were Gray Strait made the Merchant this reply , Hear me a word or two I pray . Thy Harlot in Prosperity , She will embrace thee for thy Gold , But when in want or poverty you'll nought from her but frowns behold . And ready to betray thy Life , When Wretched , Naked , Poor and Low ; But thy true Hearted Faithful Wife , Will stand by thee in Wealth or Woe . If thou wilt prove the truth of this , Stripped off thy Gudy Gay Array And so return to thy Lew'd Miss ! Declare that thou wast Cast away . Thy Riches buried in the Main , Beside as you passed thought the wood One of your Servants you have Slave For which your Life in danger stood . Beseech her for to Shelter thee Declare on her you do depend , And then alas ! Full soon you'll see , How far she'll prove a Faithful Friend . Then if she frowns go thy wife Tell her this Melancholy Theam who labours most to save thy Life , Let them be most in thy Esteem . Father the Merchant then reply'd , you must this single Penny take , And when I've passed the Ocean wide , A proof of it i mean to make . So loving Friend , for ought I know , may this single Penny prize , It may be the best I do bestow In my fine wealthy Merchandise . So taking Leave , away they went , Both he and his fine Hearts of Gold , Unto them he said , I must prove the same , When I my native Land behold . PA [ R ] TO III . WIth full spread Sails away they went , Neptune the Golden Cargo boar , Thro' roaring waves to their content At length they reach the British Shore , The Merchant put on poor array The very worst of ragged Clothes And then without the least delay He to his wanton Harlot goes . When she beheld him in Distress She cry'd what is the matter now Said he I'm poor and pennyless With that he made a courteous Bow. Crying no Man was ne'er so crossed As I have been sweet Hearts delight My Ship and all my Cargo lost Without thy help I'm Ruin'd quite . My loss is great yet that's not all One of my Servants I have Slave as we did both at Variance fallen , Some Shelter let me here obtain . I dare not go anear my wife whom I have worng'd many Years Into thy Hands I put my Life Take pity of my melting tears . You bloody Villain she reply'd Don't in the least on me depend Begone or as I live she cry'd I for and Officer will send . I'll give you neither Bred nor Drink Nor any shelter shall you have Of Nasty Lousy Rags you stink Begone you base Pernicious Slave . Don't think that I'll your counse keep Or harbour any such as you He turn'd aside and seem'd to weep and bid the wanton Jilt adieu . Then to his loving wife he came Both Poor and Naked in Distress He told her all the very same , Yet she reciev'd him ne'er the less . My Dear she cry'd since it is so , Take comfort in thy loving wife , All that I have shall freely go To gain a Pardon for thy Life . I'll lodge thee in a Place secure , Where I will daily Nourish thee , Believe me Love thou may'st be sure To find a constant Friend in me . When he this perfect Proof had made . Which of them two did Love him best , Unto his virtuous Wife he said , My Jewel set thy Heart at Rest. Behold no Servant have I Slave . Nor have I suffer'd any Loss ; Enough I have us to Maintain , The Ocean Seas no more I'll cross . My Leading Ship lies near the Shore With Gold and Jewels Richly frought So much I never had before Thy Pennyworth of Wit I've bought . Once more he to his Harlot goes . With Fourteen Sailors brave and bold , All Cloath'd in new and Costly Clothes Of Silk and Rich Embroider'd Gold . The Miss when she his Pomp beheld Did offer him a kind Embrace But he with wrath and anger fill'd , Did strait upbraid her to her Face . But she with smiles these words expressed , I have a faithful love for thee What e'er I said was but in Jest Why did'st thou go so soon from me . It time to go for as I'm told You have another Love in store Whom you have furnnish'd with my Go [ ld ] And Jewels which I brought on Shore . It's false she said I have them all With that the Merchant soon reply'd Lay them down before me then I shall Be soon convinc'd and satisfy'd . Then up she run and fetch'd then down His Jewels Gold and Rubies bright He seiz'd them all then with A CHOICE Pennyworth of WIT . HERE is a Pennyworth of Wit , for those that ever went astray It warning they will take by it , I will do them good another day . It is a Touchstone of true Love , Betwixt a Harlot and a Wife , The former does destructive prove , The latter yields the Joys of Life . As in this Book you may behold , Set forth by Mr. William Lane , A wealthy Merchant brave and bold , Who did a Harlot long maintain . Although a Virtuous Wife he had , Likewise a youthful Daughter dear , which might have made his heart full glad Yet them he never would come near . The Traffic which he Traded for On the tempestuous Ocean wide , His Harlot had it brought to her , But nothing to his Virtuous Bride . The finest Silks that could be bought Nay Jewels , Rubies & Dimond Rings , He to his wanton Harlot brought , With many other costly things . She still receiv'd them with a smile When he came from the roaring Seas , And said with words as smooth as Oil , My dearest come and take thy ease . To thy soft Bed and Linen fine , Thou art right welcome , Love said she , Both I and all that here is mine , Shall still at thy Devotion be . He brought 200 l. in Gold , And after that 300 more , Rich Chains and Jewels manifold , And bid her lay them up in store . Aye that I will thou need'st not fear , And so embrac'd him with a kiss , Then took the wealth and said my dear , I'll have a special care of this . Then did they banquet many days : Feasting on Delicious Fare , Thus by her false deluding ways , She drew him in a fatal Snare . When he had liv'd sometime on shore He must go to the Seas again , With Traffic to increase his store , The wanton Harlot to Maintain . To whom he said , My Joy and Dear , What Venture will you send . A good return thou needest not fear , I'll be thy Factor & thy Friend . In Goods my dear I'll send above , Ten Pounds thou shalt take on Board I know that unto me my dear , A trible gain thou wilt afford . This said next to his wife he goes , And ask'd her in a scornful wise What Venture she would then propose To send by him for Merchandise . I'll send a Penny love by thee , Be sure yond take great care of it ; When you're in Foreign Parts said she , Pray Buy a Pennyworth of Wit . She laid the Penny in his Hand , And said I pray now don't forget ; When you are in another Land , To Buy a Pennyworth of Wit . He put the Penny up secure , And said I'll take a special care , To lay it out you may be sure : So to his Miss he did repair . And told her what he was to Buy , At which she laugh'd his Wife to scorn On Board he went immediately And so to Sea that very Morn . PART II NOw they are gone with merry hearts The Merchant and his jovial Crew From Port to Port in Foreign Parts TO Trade as they were wont to do . At length when he had well bestow'd The Cargo which was outward-bound , He did his Trading vessel Load With the Rich Treasure which he found . As he his Merchandise still sent , They turn'd to Gems and Golden Oar , Which crown'd his labour with content , He never was so Rich before . The wanton Harlots venture then Did turn to great Account likewise For e'ery Pound she should have Ten , Such was his lucky Merchandise . For joy of which the Merchant cry One merry bout my Lads shall have A splendid supper I'll provide , Of all the Dainties you can crave Before we set to Sea again . Which said they to a Tavern went , Where they did drink and feast amain , Till Crowns and Pounds were spent . The Merchant then with laughter mov'd , Said he for Wit had never thought , My Harlot's venture is improv'd , But of my Wife's I never thought . One single Penny , and no more She has a venture sent by me , I was to lay it out therefore In what you think a Rarity . She bid me use my utmost Skill To Buy a Pennyworth of Wit , But I have kept the Penny still , And ne'er so much as thought of it . Where shall I go to lay it out True Wit is hard and scarce to find But come my Lads lets Drink about , My Wife's small venture I'll not mind . There is a Proverb often us'd , Wit's never good till bought full dear , Therefore I well may be excus'd There's little for a Penny here . And Aged Father sitting by Whose venerable Locks were Gray Strait made the Merchant this reply , Hear me a word or two I pray . Thy Harlot in Prosperity , She will embrace thee for thy Gold , But when in want or poverty you'll nought from her but frowns behold . And ready to betray thy Life , When Wretched , Naked , Poor and Low ; But thy true Hearted Faithful Wife , Will stand by thee in Wealth or Woe . If thou wilt prove the truth of this , Stripped off thy Gudy Gay Array And so return to thy Lew'd Miss ! Declare that thou wast Cast away . Thy Riches buried in the Main , Beside as you passed thought the wood One of your Servants you have Slave For which your Life in danger stood . Beseech her for to Shelter thee Declare on her you do depend , And then alas ! Full soon you'll see , How far she'll prove a Faithful Friend . Then if she frowns go thy wife Tell her this Melancholy Theam who labours most to save thy Life , Let them be most in thy Esteem . Father the Merchant then reply'd , you must this single Penny take , And when I've passed the Ocean wide , A proof of it i mean to make . So loving Friend , for ought I know , may this single Penny prize , It may be the best I do bestow In my fine wealthy Merchandise . So taking Leave , away they went , Both he and his fine Hearts of Gold , Unto them he said , I must prove the same , When I my native Land behold . PA [ R ] TO III . WIth full spread Sails away they went , Neptune the Golden Cargo boar , Thro' roaring waves to their content At length they reach the British Shore , The Merchant put on poor array The very worst of ragged Clothes And then without the least delay He to his wanton Harlot goes . When she beheld him in Distress She cry'd what is the matter now Said he I'm poor and pennyless With that he made a courteous Bow. Crying no Man was ne'er so crossed As I have been sweet Hearts delight My Ship and all my Cargo lost Without thy help I'm Ruin'd quite . My loss is great yet that's not all One of my Servants I have Slave as we did both at Variance fallen , Some Shelter let me here obtain . I dare not go anear my wife whom I have worng'd many Years Into thy Hands I put my Life Take pity of my melting tears . You bloody Villain she reply'd Don't in the least on me depend Begone or as I live she cry'd I for and Officer will send . I'll give you neither Bred nor Drink Nor any shelter shall you have Of Nasty Lousy Rags you stink Begone you base Pernicious Slave . Don't think that I'll your counse keep Or harbour any such as you He turn'd aside and seem'd to weep and bid the wanton Jilt adieu . Then to his loving wife he came Both Poor and Naked in Distress He told her all the very same , Yet she reciev'd him ne'er the less . My Dear she cry'd since it is so , Take comfort in thy loving wife , All that I have shall freely go To gain a Pardon for thy Life . I'll lodge thee in a Place secure , Where I will daily Nourish thee , Believe me Love thou may'st be sure To find a constant Friend in me . When he this perfect Proof had made . Which of them two did Love him best , Unto his virtuous Wife he said , My Jewel set thy Heart at Rest. Behold no Servant have I Slave . Nor have I suffer'd any Loss ; Enough I have us to Maintain , The Ocean Seas no more I'll cross . My Leading Ship lies near the Shore With Gold and Jewels Richly frought So much I never had before Thy Pennyworth of Wit I've bought . Once more he to his Harlot goes . With Fourteen Sailors brave and bold , All Cloath'd in new and Costly Clothes Of Silk and Rich Embroider'd Gold . The Miss when she his Pomp beheld Did offer him a kind Embrace But he with wrath and anger fill'd , Did strait upbraid her to her Face . But she with smiles these words expressed , I have a faithful love for thee What e'er I said was but in Jest Why did'st thou go so soon from me . It time to go for as I'm told You have another Love in store Whom you have furnnish'd with my Go [ ld ] And Jewels which I brought on Shore . It's false she said I have them all With that the Merchant soon reply'd Lay them down before me then I shall Be soon convinc'd and satisfy'd . Then up she run and fetch'd then down His Jewels Gold and Rubies bright He seiz'd them all then with a Frown . He bid wanton Jilt good Night . When he had took the Golden Purse and swept up e'ery Precious Stone She cry'd what will you Rob me thus Yes that I will of what's my own . You wanted to betray my Life But thank'd be God there's no such fear Those Jewels shall adorn my Wife Henceforth your House I'll ne'er come nea [ r ] Home he return'd to his sweet Wife , and told her all that he had done E'er since they led a happy Life and he'll no more to Harlots run . Thus he the wanton Harlot bit , That long had his Destruction sought , This is a Pennyworth of Wit , The best that ever Merchant bought . Printed at the Office in Grubstreet . a Frown . He bid wanton Jilt good Night . When he had took the Golden Purse and swept up e'ery Precious Stone She cry'd what will you Rob me thus Yes that I will of what's my own . You wanted to betray my Life But thank'd be God there's no such fear Those Jewels shall adorn my Wife Henceforth your House I'll ne'er come nea [ r ] Home he return'd to his sweet Wife , and told her all that he had done E'er since they led a happy Life and he'll no more to Harlots run . Thus he the wanton Harlot bit , That long had his Destruction sought , This is a Pennyworth of Wit , The best that ever Merchant bought . Printed at the Office in Grubstreet . 