JOHN DAVIDSON , MERCHANT , At NEWBIGGING , near DRUMLITHIE , Sells the FOLLOWING GOODS at the lowest Princes . MY Customers all of different Ranks , To you I do return my Thanks , For all your former Favours granted , A grateful Sense I never wanted . That you may be the better sorted , I've bought my Goods the last imported : And what I fell , that you may know , Is noted in the Bill below . HEre'sLint and Tow , both white and blue , All Sorts of Cards , both old and new ; Powder-Sugar , Starch , and Soap , Garden-Seeds of last Year's Crop. Fine Pearl-ashes , Corks , and Spice , Sugarcandy , Cards and Dice , White-Iron Mugs to hold your Drink , Writing Paper , Pens and Ink. Barley here instead of Grotts , Honey-canes and Chamber-Pots , Napkins made at Aberdeen , Ginger too , both white and green . English Wool , and Factory Backs , Wafers , and some Sticks of Wax . Brimstone , and the Flour of such , With other Things to cure the Itch. Tar and Iron , Salt and Led , Raisins , Alum , and Gingerbread , Rock-Indigo that's good and true , With ' What d'ye ca't , for hasty Blue . Snuff-Boxes , Bibles , Carlisle Hooks , New Testaments and good Prayer Books , Good Epsom here and Glauber Salts , With other Physic , free of Faults . Senna Leaf , Rhubarb , and Pills , Rosin , Birse , and Timber Heels , Oxycrotion , Wax of Bees , Empty Casks , and Dry-ware Trees , Garters , Tapes , Bone Combs and Horn , Fine Tobacco , twist or shorn , Story Books of unco' Stuff , And I fell John Cushnie's Snuff . New English Hops , none better grows , Fine picked Ropes and other Tows , Here's good salt Butter in whole Kitts , Horses Girths and sniffle Bits . Turpentine Oil , and fine sweet Sack , Burgundy Pitch , and good Lampblack , Metal Pots both great and sma' , And Carron Hoops just fit to ca' . Train Oil I have and also Green , Spectacles to fit your Een , Sleeve Buttons , Needles , Pins and Awls , Copperas and Aleppo Galls . Melasses , Cinnamon , and Glue , Saddle-Tacks , and Saffron too ; Black Beer , Vinegar , and Honey , Goods for Trust or Ready-Money . Fresh Rye Grass , and Clover Seed , Buckram , Cords , and colour'd Thread , Metal Buttons , Hair and Horn , All sorts that's in the Country worn . Earthen Plataeae , and small brown Mugs , White Iron Mills , and bigger Jugs , Moyhair and fine silk Threads , Carvy too and Annise Seeds . White Soap , Gunpowder , Flints and Shot , And Timber Cats , they're but a Groat , Dram Glasses , Vials , Wheeling Wire , Tobacco Pipes , and other Geir . ' Brazil and Verdigrease . Fine white Thread and Cambrick Knitting , Good Cheques to fell that fit for Metting , A foreign Herb sometime they drink it , With many other useful Trinket . All sorts of Gun-stones here enew , White Iron Cakes , and Button Blue , Of Liquorish I have a share , And Weaver's Brushes , several Pair . Leather Points of good Sheep-hides , Twenty other Things beside , All sorts of Nails and Stobs I keep , Wi' guide Woo' Sheers to clip your [ sheep . ] Most kinds of Stone Beware here you [ 'll see ] With Cups and Saucers fit for Tea Large white Bowls , and Quart Decanters , Tea Pots too for those that's Wanters . Gimblets here of any size , ' Of Chamber Pots I'll tell you twice ; You'll may be think I do't for sport , But I can show you any sort . Glasgow Napkins great and small , Button Moulds and Vitriol , Nutmegs and Sugar allo'grease , Fine ground Mustard and Scots Cheese For want of Good if you should from [ tO ] ' At any Time I'll fell dry Skate , The best Wheel Bans I e'er did [ handle ] With Mustard Boxes and White Candle I've finest Flour of English make , And if you please , the same I'll Bake ; That is a Branch I still pursue , Here's Loaves and Biscuits always New. Likewise your Meal , Bear , Rye , or Oat , I'll Bake a Firlot for a Groat ; I keep and Oven always warm , But with your Meal pray send me Barm . And Wives and Lasses far and near , To you I've other sort o' Geir ; And I may swear and not be cheated , That a' the Parish cou'd no' beatrice it . It's Factory Lint from Gordon's Mills . Whose Character the Mearns fills , And my Advice I give you a' , Come take it e'er the Princes fa' , Now when you have read o'er this List , There's other Things that I have missed [ ? ] Quick Silver , different Kinds of Saw , among the rest , one for the Claw , Brazilicon , Dipalme , Hemp , Harvest Gloves for those that Kemp , More useful Things I might advice , Troth here's good Ointment for the lay Now if you'll be so very good , As come to me , I think you shou'd ; If you've but little for to spend , I'll thank you kindly , come or send . Now tho' I have some Things forgotten , What Goods I have is a' new bought , I'm at a Word , I like no Prigging , My Name's John Davidson at Newbigging . ' Stone and Earth ones of all Sorts . 'Sold at 25. per lib . EXETER : Printed by R. TREWMAN , behind the Guildhall . JOHN DAVIDSON , MERCHANT , At NEWBIGGING , near DRUMLITHIE , Sells the FOLLOWING GOODS at the lowest Princes . MY Customers all of different Ranks , To you I do return my Thanks , For all your former Favours granted , A grateful Sense I never wanted . That you may be the better sorted , I've bought my Goods the last imported : And what I fell , that you may know , Is noted in the Bill below . HEre'sLint and Tow , both white and blue , All Sorts of Cards , both old and new ; Powder-Sugar , Starch , and Soap , Garden-Seeds of last Year's Crop. Fine Pearl-ashes , Corks , and Spice , Sugarcandy , Cards and Dice , White-Iron Mugs to hold your Drink , Writing Paper , Pens and Ink. Barley here instead of Grotts , Honey-canes and Chamber-Pots , Napkins made at Aberdeen , Ginger too , both white and green . English Wool , and Factory Backs , Wafers , and some Sticks of Wax . Brimstone , and the Flour of such , With other Things to cure the Itch. Tar and Iron , Salt and Led , Raisins , Alum , and Gingerbread , Rock-Indigo that's good and true , With ' What d'ye ca't , for hasty Blue . Snuff-Boxes , Bibles , Carlisle Hooks , New Testaments and good Prayer Books , Good Epsom here and Glauber Salts , With other Physic , free of Faults . Senna Leaf , Rhubarb , and Pills , Rosin , Birse , and Timber Heels , Oxycrotion , Wax of Bees , Empty Casks , and Dry-ware Trees , Garters , Tapes , Bone Combs and Horn , Fine Tobacco , twist or shorn , Story Books of unco' Stuff , And I fell John Cushnie's Snuff . New English Hops , none better grows , Fine picked Ropes and other Tows , Here's good salt Butter in whole Kitts , Horses Girths and sniffle Bits . Turpentine Oil , and fine sweet Sack , Burgundy Pitch , and good Lampblack , Metal Pots both great and sma' , And Carron Hoops just fit to ca' . Train Oil I have and also Green , Spectacles to fit your Een , Sleeve Buttons , Needles , Pins and Awls , Copperas and Aleppo Galls . Melasses , Cinnamon , and Glue , Saddle-Tacks , and Saffron too ; Black Beer , Vinegar , and Honey , Goods for Trust or Ready-Money . Fresh Rye Grass , and Clover Seed , Buckram , Cords , and colour'd Thread , Metal Buttons , Hair and Horn , All sorts that's in the Country worn . Earthen Plataeae , and small brown Mugs , White Iron Mills , and bigger Jugs , Moyhair and fine silk Threads , Carvy too and Annise Seeds . White Soap , Gunpowder , Flints and Shot , And Timber Cats , they're but a Groat , Dram Glasses , Vials , Wheeling Wire , Tobacco Pipes , and other Geir . ' Brazil and Verdigrease . Fine white Thread and Cambrick Knitting , Good Cheques to fell that fit for Metting , A foreign Herb sometime they drink it , With many other useful Trinket . All sorts of Gun-stones here enew , White Iron Cakes , and Button Blue , Of Liquorish I have a share , And Weaver's Brushes , several Pair . Leather Points of good Sheep-hides , Twenty other Things beside , All sorts of Nails and Stobs I keep , Wi' guide Woo' Sheers to clip your [ sheep . ] Most kinds of Stone Beware here you [ 'll see ] With Cups and Saucers fit for Tea Large white Bowls , and Quart Decanters , Tea Pots too for those that's Wanters . Gimblets here of any size , ' Of Chamber Pots I'll tell you twice ; You'll may be think I do't for sport , But I can show you any sort . Glasgow Napkins great and small , Button Moulds and Vitriol , Nutmegs and Sugar allo'grease , Fine ground Mustard and Scots Cheese For want of Good if you should from [ tO ] ' At any Time I'll fell dry Skate , The best Wheel Bans I e'er did [ handle ] With Mustard Boxes and White Candle I've finest Flour of English make , And if you please , the same I'll Bake ; That is a Branch I still pursue , Here's Loaves and Biscuits always New. Likewise your Meal , Bear , Rye , or Oat , I'll Bake a Firlot for a Groat ; I keep and Oven always warm , But with your Meal pray send me Barm . And Wives and Lasses far and near , To you I've other sort o' Geir ; And I may swear and not be cheated , That a' the Parish cou'd no' beatrice it . It's Factory Lint from Gordon's Mills . Whose Character the Mearns fills , And my Advice I give you a' , Come take it e'er the Princes fa' , Now when you have read o'er this List , There's other Things that I have missed [ ? ] Quick Silver , different Kinds of Saw , among the rest , one for the Claw , Brazilicon , Dipalme , Hemp , Harvest Gloves for those that Kemp , More useful Things I might advice , Troth here's good Ointment for the lay Now if you'll be so very good , As come to me , I think you shou'd ; If you've but little for to spend , I'll thank you kindly , come or send . Now tho' I have some Things forgotten , What Goods I have is a' new bought , I'm at a Word , I like no Prigging , My Name's John Davidson at Newbigging . ' Stone and Earth ones of all Sorts . 'Sold at 25. per lib . EXETER : Printed by R. TREWMAN , behind the Guildhall . JOHN DAVIDSON , MERCHANT , At NEWBIGGING , near DRUMLITHIE , Sells the FOLLOWING GOODS at the lowest Princes . MY Customers all of different Ranks , To you I do return my Thanks , For all your former Favours granted , A grateful Sense I never wanted . That you may be the better sorted , I've bought my Goods the last imported : And what I fell , that you may know , Is noted in the Bill below . HEre'sLint and Tow , both white and blue , All Sorts of Cards , both old and new ; Powder-Sugar , Starch , and Soap , Garden-Seeds of last Year's Crop. Fine Pearl-ashes , Corks , and Spice , Sugarcandy , Cards and Dice , White-Iron Mugs to hold your Drink , Writing Paper , Pens and Ink. Barley here instead of Grotts , Honey-canes and Chamber-Pots , Napkins made at Aberdeen , Ginger too , both white and green . English Wool , and Factory Backs , Wafers , and some Sticks of Wax . Brimstone , and the Flour of such , With other Things to cure the Itch. Tar and Iron , Salt and Led , Raisins , Alum , and Gingerbread , Rock-Indigo that's good and true , With ' What d'ye ca't , for hasty Blue . Snuff-Boxes , Bibles , Carlisle Hooks , New Testaments and good Prayer Books , Good Epsom here and Glauber Salts , With other Physic , free of Faults . Senna Leaf , Rhubarb , and Pills , Rosin , Birse , and Timber Heels , Oxycrotion , Wax of Bees , Empty Casks , and Dry-ware Trees , Garters , Tapes , Bone Combs and Horn , Fine Tobacco , twist or shorn , Story Books of unco' Stuff , And I fell John Cushnie's Snuff . New English Hops , none better grows , Fine picked Ropes and other Tows , Here's good salt Butter in whole Kitts , Horses Girths and sniffle Bits . Turpentine Oil , and fine sweet Sack , Burgundy Pitch , and good Lampblack , Metal Pots both great and sma' , And Carron Hoops just fit to ca' . Train Oil I have and also Green , Spectacles to fit your Een , Sleeve Buttons , Needles , Pins and Awls , Copperas and Aleppo Galls . Melasses , Cinnamon , and Glue , Saddle-Tacks , and Saffron too ; Black Beer , Vinegar , and Honey , Goods for Trust or Ready-Money . Fresh Rye Grass , and Clover Seed , Buckram , Cords , and colour'd Thread , Metal Buttons , Hair and Horn , All sorts that's in the Country worn . Earthen Plataeae , and small brown Mugs , White Iron Mills , and bigger Jugs , Moyhair and fine silk Threads , Carvy too and Annise Seeds . White Soap , Gunpowder , Flints and Shot , And Timber Cats , they're but a Groat , Dram Glasses , Vials , Wheeling Wire , Tobacco Pipes , and other Geir . ' Brazil and Verdigrease . Fine white Thread and Cambrick Knitting , Good Cheques to fell that fit for Metting , A foreign Herb sometime they drink it , With many other useful Trinket . All sorts of Gun-stones here enew , White Iron Cakes , and Button Blue , Of Liquorish I have a share , And Weaver's Brushes , several Pair . Leather Points of good Sheep-hides , Twenty other Things beside , All sorts of Nails and Stobs I keep , Wi' guide Woo' Sheers to clip your [ sheep . ] Most kinds of Stone Beware here you [ 'll see ] With Cups and Saucers fit for Tea Large white Bowls , and Quart Decanters , Tea Pots too for those that's Wanters . Gimblets here of any size , ' Of Chamber Pots I'll tell you twice ; You'll may be think I do't for sport , But I can show you any sort . Glasgow Napkins great and small , Button Moulds and Vitriol , Nutmegs and Sugar allo'grease , Fine ground Mustard and Scots Cheese For want of Good if you should from [ tO ] ' At any Time I'll fell dry Skate , The best Wheel Bans I e'er did [ handle ] With Mustard Boxes and White Candle I've finest Flour of English make , And if you please , the same I'll Bake ; That is a Branch I still pursue , Here's Loaves and Biscuits always New. Likewise your Meal , Bear , Rye , or Oat , I'll Bake a Firlot for a Groat ; I keep and Oven always warm , But with your Meal pray send me Barm . And Wives and Lasses far and near , To you I've other sort o' Geir ; And I may swear and not be cheated , That a' the Parish cou'd no' beatrice it . It's Factory Lint from Gordon's Mills . Whose Character the Mearns fills , And my Advice I give you a' , Come take it e'er the Princes fa' , Now when you have read o'er this List , There's other Things that I have missed [ ? ] Quick Silver , different Kinds of Saw , among the rest , one for the Claw , Brazilicon , Dipalme , Hemp , Harvest Gloves for those that Kemp , More useful Things I might advice , Troth here's good Ointment for the lay Now if you'll be so very good , As come to me , I think you shou'd ; If you've but little for to spend , I'll thank you kindly , come or send . Now tho' I have some Things forgotten , What Goods I have is a' new bought , I'm at a Word , I like no Prigging , My Name's John Davidson at Newbigging . ' Stone and Earth ones of all Sorts . 'Sold at 25. per lib . EXETER : Printed by R. TREWMAN , behind the Guildhall . JOHN DAVIDSON , MERCHANT , At NEWBIGGING , near DRUMLITHIE , Sells the FOLLOWING GOODS at the lowest Princes . MY Customers all of different Ranks , To you I do return my Thanks , For all your former Favours granted , A grateful Sense I never wanted . That you may be the better sorted , I've bought my Goods the last imported : And what I fell , that you may know , Is noted in the Bill below . HEre'sLint and Tow , both white and blue , All Sorts of Cards , both old and new ; Powder-Sugar , Starch , and Soap , Garden-Seeds of last Year's Crop. Fine Pearl-ashes , Corks , and Spice , Sugarcandy , Cards and Dice , White-Iron Mugs to hold your Drink , Writing Paper , Pens and Ink. Barley here instead of Grotts , Honey-canes and Chamber-Pots , Napkins made at Aberdeen , Ginger too , both white and green . English Wool , and Factory Backs , Wafers , and some Sticks of Wax . Brimstone , and the Flour of such , With other Things to cure the Itch. Tar and Iron , Salt and Led , Raisins , Alum , and Gingerbread , Rock-Indigo that's good and true , With ' What d'ye ca't , for hasty Blue . Snuff-Boxes , Bibles , Carlisle Hooks , New Testaments and good Prayer Books , Good Epsom here and Glauber Salts , With other Physic , free of Faults . Senna Leaf , Rhubarb , and Pills , Rosin , Birse , and Timber Heels , Oxycrotion , Wax of Bees , Empty Casks , and Dry-ware Trees , Garters , Tapes , Bone Combs and Horn , Fine Tobacco , twist or shorn , Story Books of unco' Stuff , And I fell John Cushnie's Snuff . New English Hops , none better grows , Fine picked Ropes and other Tows , Here's good salt Butter in whole Kitts , Horses Girths and sniffle Bits . Turpentine Oil , and fine sweet Sack , Burgundy Pitch , and good Lampblack , Metal Pots both great and sma' , And Carron Hoops just fit to ca' . Train Oil I have and also Green , Spectacles to fit your Een , Sleeve Buttons , Needles , Pins and Awls , Copperas and Aleppo Galls . Melasses , Cinnamon , and Glue , Saddle-Tacks , and Saffron too ; Black Beer , Vinegar , and Honey , Goods for Trust or Ready-Money . Fresh Rye Grass , and Clover Seed , Buckram , Cords , and colour'd Thread , Metal Buttons , Hair and Horn , All sorts that's in the Country worn . Earthen Plataeae , and small brown Mugs , White Iron Mills , and bigger Jugs , Moyhair and fine silk Threads , Carvy too and Annise Seeds . White Soap , Gunpowder , Flints and Shot , And Timber Cats , they're but a Groat , Dram Glasses , Vials , Wheeling Wire , Tobacco Pipes , and other Geir . ' Brazil and Verdigrease . Fine white Thread and Cambrick Knitting , Good Cheques to fell that fit for Metting , A foreign Herb sometime they drink it , With many other useful Trinket . All sorts of Gun-stones here enew , White Iron Cakes , and Button Blue , Of Liquorish I have a share , And Weaver's Brushes , several Pair . Leather Points of good Sheep-hides , Twenty other Things beside , All sorts of Nails and Stobs I keep , Wi' guide Woo' Sheers to clip your [ sheep . ] Most kinds of Stone Beware here you [ 'll see ] With Cups and Saucers fit for Tea Large white Bowls , and Quart Decanters , Tea Pots too for those that's Wanters . Gimblets here of any size , ' Of Chamber Pots I'll tell you twice ; You'll may be think I do't for sport , But I can show you any sort . Glasgow Napkins great and small , Button Moulds and Vitriol , Nutmegs and Sugar allo'grease , Fine ground Mustard and Scots Cheese For want of Good if you should from [ tO ] ' At any Time I'll fell dry Skate , The best Wheel Bans I e'er did [ handle ] With Mustard Boxes and White Candle I've finest Flour of English make , And if you please , the same I'll Bake ; That is a Branch I still pursue , Here's Loaves and Biscuits always New. Likewise your Meal , Bear , Rye , or Oat , I'll Bake a Firlot for a Groat ; I keep and Oven always warm , But with your Meal pray send me Barm . And Wives and Lasses far and near , To you I've other sort o' Geir ; And I may swear and not be cheated , That a' the Parish cou'd no' beatrice it . It's Factory Lint from Gordon's Mills . Whose Character the Mearns fills , And my Advice I give you a' , Come take it e'er the Princes fa' , Now when you have read o'er this List , There's other Things that I have missed [ ? ] Quick Silver , different Kinds of Saw , among the rest , one for the Claw , Brazilicon , Dipalme , Hemp , Harvest Gloves for those that Kemp , More useful Things I might advice , Troth here's good Ointment for the lay Now if you'll be so very good , As come to me , I think you shou'd ; If you've but little for to spend , I'll thank you kindly , come or send . Now tho' I have some Things forgotten , What Goods I have is a' new bought , I'm at a Word , I like no Prigging , My Name's John Davidson at Newbigging . ' Stone and Earth ones of all Sorts . 'Sold at 25. per lib . EXETER : Printed by R. TREWMAN , behind the Guildhall . 