And Excellent Sonnet of the Two Unfortunate LOVERS HERO and LEANDER : GIVING And Account how Leander fell in Love with the famous Hero ; but being disappoint - ed by her cruel Father , who confined her in a Tower , Leander resolving to swim over the Hellespont to fetch her away , a mighty Storm arose , and he was drowned near her Window ; for Sorrow of which , she leapt into the Sea to him . To the Tune of , Gerherd's Mistress . Hero . HOW fares My fair Leander ? O vouchsafe to speak , lest my Heart break , I banish'd from thy sweet Company ; 'Tis not Thy Father's Anger can abase my Love ; I still will prove Thy faithful Friend until such Time I die : Though Fate and Fortune do conspire to interrupt our Love , In spite of Fate And Fortune's hate I still will constant prove : And though Our angry Friends in Malice now our Bodies part No Friends nor Foes , Nor Scats nor Blows , shall separate our Hearts . Leander . What Voice Is this that calls Leander from her Bower ? from yonder Tower , The Echo of this Voice does sure proceed . Hero . Leander 'Tis thy Hero fain would come to thee , if it might be ; Thy Absence makes my tender Heart to bleed But o ! this pleasant River Hellispont , which is the People's wonder Those Waves so high Do injury , by parting us asunder : And though there's Ferry Men great store , yet none will stand my Friend , To waft me o're to That fair Shore where all my Grief shall end . Leander . Hero Though I am thy constant Lover still , and ever will My angry Father is thy Enemy : He still Does strive to keep us asunder ; now and then , poor Ferry-Men , They dare not waft thee over lest they die : Nor yet Dare they convey me unto my dear Hero now , My Father's Rage Will not assuage , nor will the same allow , Be patient Then dear Hero now , as I am true to thee , Even so I trust Thou art as just , and faithful unto me . Hero . Is there No Way to stay and angry Father's Wrath , whose Fury hath Bereav'd his Child of Comfort and Content ? Leander . O no , Dear Hero , there's no Way that I do know , to ease my Woe , My Days of Joy and Comfort now are spent , You may As well go tame a Lion in the Wilderness , As to persuade My Father's Aid to help me in Distress . His Anger And this River hath kept us asunder long , He hath his Will , His Humour still , and we have all the wrong . Hero . 'Tis not Thy Father's Anger , nor this River deep , the which shall keep Me from the Embracements of my dearest Friend For through This Silver Stream , my Way I mean to take , even for thy sake , For thy dear sake my dearest Life I'll spend , Though Waves and Winds should both conspire mine Enemies to be My Love's so strong , I fear no Wrong can happen unto me : Oh meet me In the Garden where this pleasant River glides Lend me thy Hand , Draw me to Land , whatever me betides . Now must I make my tender slender Arms my Oars , help watery Powers . the little Fish teach me how to swim ; And all You Sea-Nymphs guard me unto yonder Banks , I'll give you Thanks , Bear up my Body , strengthen every Limb ! I come Leander now prepare thy lovely Arms for me , I come dear Love , Assist me Jove , I may so happy be . But o ! a mighty Tempest rose , and he was drown'd that Tide , In her fair Sighed , Her Heart's delight , and so with Grief she dy'd . But when Her aged Father these Things understands , He wrings his Hands , And tears his Hoary Hair from off his Head. Society He shuns , and does forsake his Meat , his Grief's so great , And oft does make the lowly Ground his Bed : Oh my Leander , Would that I had dy'd to save thy Life , Or that I had When I was sad , made thee brave Hero's Wife . It was My Trespass , and I do confess I wrong'd thee , Posterity shall Know hereby , the Fault lay all in me . But since The Waves have cast his Body on the Land , upon the Sand , His Corpse shall buried be in solemn wise ; One Grave Shall serve them both & one most stately Tomb she'll make him Room , Although her Corpse be Breathless where she lies . the Father's Have a special care now , whatsoe'er you do , For those that parts True loyal Hearts , themselves were never true : Though Fate and Fortune Cross poor Lovers , sometime as we do know Pray understand , Have you no Hand , even in their overthrow . Newcastle upon Tine , Printed by J. White , And Excellent Sonnet of the Two Unfortunate LOVERS HERO and LEANDER : GIVING And Account how Leander fell in Love with the famous Hero ; but being disappoint - ed by her cruel Father , who confined her in a Tower , Leander resolving to swim over the Hellespont to fetch her away , a mighty Storm arose , and he was drowned near her Window ; for Sorrow of which , she leapt into the Sea to him . To the Tune of , Gerherd's Mistress . Hero . HOW fares My fair Leander ? O vouchsafe to speak , lest my Heart break , I banish'd from thy sweet Company ; 'Tis not Thy Father's Anger can abase my Love ; I still will prove Thy faithful Friend until such Time I die : Though Fate and Fortune do conspire to interrupt our Love , In spite of Fate And Fortune's hate I still will constant prove : And though Our angry Friends in Malice now our Bodies part No Friends nor Foes , Nor Scats nor Blows , shall separate our Hearts . Leander . What Voice Is this that calls Leander from her Bower ? from yonder Tower , The Echo of this Voice does sure proceed . Hero . Leander 'Tis thy Hero fain would come to thee , if it might be ; Thy Absence makes my tender Heart to bleed But o ! this pleasant River Hellispont , which is the People's wonder Those Waves so high Do injury , by parting us asunder : And though there's Ferry Men great store , yet none will stand my Friend , To waft me o're to That fair Shore where all my Grief shall end . Leander . Hero Though I am thy constant Lover still , and ever will My angry Father is thy Enemy : He still Does strive to keep us asunder ; now and then , poor Ferry-Men , They dare not waft thee over lest they die : Nor yet Dare they convey me unto my dear Hero now , My Father's Rage Will not assuage , nor will the same allow , Be patient Then dear Hero now , as I am true to thee , Even so I trust Thou art as just , and faithful unto me . Hero . Is there No Way to stay and angry Father's Wrath , whose Fury hath Bereav'd his Child of Comfort and Content ? Leander . O no , Dear Hero , there's no Way that I do know , to ease my Woe , My Days of Joy and Comfort now are spent , You may As well go tame a Lion in the Wilderness , As to persuade My Father's Aid to help me in Distress . His Anger And this River hath kept us asunder long , He hath his Will , His Humour still , and we have all the wrong . Hero . 'Tis not Thy Father's Anger , nor this River deep , the which shall keep Me from the Embracements of my dearest Friend For through This Silver Stream , my Way I mean to take , even for thy sake , For thy dear sake my dearest Life I'll spend , Though Waves and Winds should both conspire mine Enemies to be My Love's so strong , I fear no Wrong can happen unto me : Oh meet me In the Garden where this pleasant River glides Lend me thy Hand , Draw me to Land , whatever me betides . Now must I make my tender slender Arms my Oars , help watery Powers . the little Fish teach me how to swim ; And all You Sea-Nymphs guard me unto yonder Banks , I'll give you Thanks , Bear up my Body , strengthen every Limb ! I come Leander now prepare thy lovely Arms for me , I come dear Love , Assist me Jove , I may so happy be . But o ! a mighty Tempest rose , and he was drown'd that Tide , In her fair Sighed , Her Heart's delight , and so with Grief she dy'd . But when Her aged Father these Things understands , He wrings his Hands , And tears his Hoary Hair from off his Head. Society He shuns , and does forsake his Meat , his Grief's so great , And oft does make the lowly Ground his Bed : Oh my Leander , Would that I had dy'd to save thy Life , Or that I had When I was sad , made thee brave Hero's Wife . It was My Trespass , and I do confess I wrong'd thee , Posterity shall Know hereby , the Fault lay all in me . But since The Waves have cast his Body on the Land , upon the Sand , His Corpse shall buried be in solemn wise ; One Grave Shall serve them both & one most stately Tomb she'll make him Room , Although her Corpse be Breathless where she lies . the Father's Have a special care now , whatsoe'er you do , For those that parts True loyal Hearts , themselves were never true : Though Fate and Fortune Cross poor Lovers , sometime as we do know Pray understand , Have you no Hand , even in their overthrow . Newcastle upon Tine , Printed by J. White , 