Robin Hood's Golden Prize : Showing how he Robed two Priests of Five Hundred Pounds . Tune -- Robin Hood was a tall young Man , etc I Have herd talk of Robin Hood , Derry , derry down , And of brave Little John ; Oh Fryar Tuck , and will Scarlet , Locksly , and Maid-marrion . Hey down , derry , derry down . But such a Tale as this before , I think was never known ; For Robin Hood disguis'd himself , and from the Wood is gone . Like to a Friar , bold Robin Hood , was accoutered in his array ; With Hood , Gown , Beads , and Crucifix , he pass'd upon the way . He had not gone passed miles two or three , but it was his chance to espy Two lusty Priests clad all in black , come riding gallantly , Benedicte , then said Robin Hood , some pity on me take ; Cross you my Hand with a single groat , for our dear Lady's sake . For I have been wandering all this day , and nothing could I get ; Not so much as one poor cup of Drink , nor bit of bred to eat . Now by'r holy Dame the Priests replied , we never a penny have ; For we this morning have been rob'd , and could no Money save . I am much afraid said bold Robin Hood , that you do both tell a Lie ; And now before you do go hence , I am resolv'd to try . When as the Priests herd him say so , then they road away amain ; But Robin Hood betook him to his heels , and soon overtook them again . Then Robin Hood laid hold of them both , and pull'd them down from their horse : Oh spare us Friar , the Priests cried out , on us have some Remorse . You said you'd no money , quoth Robin Hood , wherefore without delay , We three will fallen down on our Knees , and for money we will pray . The Priests they could not gain say , but down they kneel with speed : Send us , Oh send us , then quoth they , some money to serve our need . The Priests did pray with a mournful cheer , sometime their hands did wring ; Sometime they wept and tore their hair , while Robin did merrily sing . When they had been praying and hours space , the Priests did still lament ; Then , quoth bold Robin Hood , let us see , what money Heaven hath us sent . We will be sharers all alike , of money that we have ; And there is never a One of us ; that his Fellow shall deceive . The Priests their hands in their pockets put , but money they could find none ; We'll search ourselves , said Robin Hood , each other One by One . Then Robin Hood took pains to search them , and he found good store of Gold ; Five hundred pieces presently , upon the Grass he told . Here is a brave show , said Robin Hood , such store of Gold to see , And you each One shall have a part , 'cause you pray'd so heartily . He gave them Fifty pounds apiece , and the rest for himself did keep : The Priests they durst not speak one Word , but sighed wond'rous deep . With that the Priests rose up from their Knees ; thinking to have parted so : Nay , stay , says Robin Hood , one thing more I have to say e'er you go . You shall be sworn , says bold Robin Hood , upon this holy Grass , That you will never tell Lies again , which way soever you pass . The second Oath that you must make , that all the days of your lives , You never shall tempt Maids unto since , nor lie with other Men's Wives . The last Oath you shall take , is this , be charitable to the Poor ; Say you have met a holy Fryar , and I desire no more . He set them on their horses again , and away then they did ride ; And he return'd to the merry Green Wood , with great Joy , Mirth and Pride . LONDON : Printed and sold by L. How , in Petticoat Lane . Robin Hood's Golden Prize : Showing how he Robed two Priests of Five Hundred Pounds . Tune -- Robin Hood was a tall young Man , etc I Have herd talk of Robin Hood , Derry , derry down , And of brave Little John ; Oh Fryar Tuck , and will Scarlet , Locksly , and Maid-marrion . Hey down , derry , derry down . But such a Tale as this before , I think was never known ; For Robin Hood disguis'd himself , and from the Wood is gone . Like to a Friar , bold Robin Hood , was accoutered in his array ; With Hood , Gown , Beads , and Crucifix , he pass'd upon the way . He had not gone passed miles two or three , but it was his chance to espy Two lusty Priests clad all in black , come riding gallantly , Benedicte , then said Robin Hood , some pity on me take ; Cross you my Hand with a single groat , for our dear Lady's sake . For I have been wandering all this day , and nothing could I get ; Not so much as one poor cup of Drink , nor bit of bred to eat . Now by'r holy Dame the Priests replied , we never a penny have ; For we this morning have been rob'd , and could no Money save . I am much afraid said bold Robin Hood , that you do both tell a Lie ; And now before you do go hence , I am resolv'd to try . When as the Priests herd him say so , then they road away amain ; But Robin Hood betook him to his heels , and soon overtook them again . Then Robin Hood laid hold of them both , and pull'd them down from their horse : Oh spare us Friar , the Priests cried out , on us have some Remorse . You said you'd no money , quoth Robin Hood , wherefore without delay , We three will fallen down on our Knees , and for money we will pray . The Priests they could not gain say , but down they kneel with speed : Send us , Oh send us , then quoth they , some money to serve our need . The Priests did pray with a mournful cheer , sometime their hands did wring ; Sometime they wept and tore their hair , while Robin did merrily sing . When they had been praying and hours space , the Priests did still lament ; Then , quoth bold Robin Hood , let us see , what money Heaven hath us sent . We will be sharers all alike , of money that we have ; And there is never a One of us ; that his Fellow shall deceive . The Priests their hands in their pockets put , but money they could find none ; We'll search ourselves , said Robin Hood , each other One by One . Then Robin Hood took pains to search them , and he found good store of Gold ; Five hundred pieces presently , upon the Grass he told . Here is a brave show , said Robin Hood , such store of Gold to see , And you each One shall have a part , 'cause you pray'd so heartily . He gave them Fifty pounds apiece , and the rest for himself did keep : The Priests they durst not speak one Word , but sighed wond'rous deep . With that the Priests rose up from their Knees ; thinking to have parted so : Nay , stay , says Robin Hood , one thing more I have to say e'er you go . You shall be sworn , says bold Robin Hood , upon this holy Grass , That you will never tell Lies again , which way soever you pass . The second Oath that you must make , that all the days of your lives , You never shall tempt Maids unto since , nor lie with other Men's Wives . The last Oath you shall take , is this , be charitable to the Poor ; Say you have met a holy Fryar , and I desire no more . He set them on their horses again , and away then they did ride ; And he return'd to the merry Green Wood , with great Joy , Mirth and Pride . LONDON : Printed and sold by L. How , in Petticoat Lane . 