THE NEW BALOW : OR , A Wenches Lamentation for the loss of her Sweet-hear he having left her with a Babe to play her , be - ing the Fruits of her Folly . The Tune is Balow . BAlow , my Babe , weep not for me : Whose greatest grief's for wronging thee , But pity her deserved smart , Who can but blame her own kind heart , For trusting to a flattering friend ; The fairest tongue the falsest mind . Balow , my babe , etc Balow my Babe , lie still and sleep , It grieves me soar to hear thee weep : If thou be still I will be glad , Thy weeping makes thy mother sad : Balow , my boy , thy mother's joy , Thy father wrought me great annoy . Balow , balow , etc First when he came to court my love , With sugared words he did me move ; His flattering and feigned cheer , To me that time did not appear . But now , I see that cruel be , Cares neither for my babe nor me . Balow , balow , etc I cannot choose but love him still . Although that he hath done me ill , For he hath stolen away my heart , And from him it cannot depar In well or woe , where ere he go , I'll love him though he be my foe . Balow , Balow , etc But peace my comfort , curse not him Who now in seas of grief does swim Perhaps of death : for who can tell , Whither the Judge of heaven or hell , By some predestinated death , Revenging me , hath stopped his breath . Balow , Balow , etc If I were near those fatal bounds ; Where he lie groaning in his wounds : Repeating as he pants for breath , Her name that wounds more deep then death Oh then what women's heart so strong Would not forget the greatest wrong . Balow , balow , etc If linen lack , for my loves sake , Whom once I loved : then would I take My smock even from my body meet , And wrap him in that winding sheet , Ay me how happy had I been , If he had never been wrapped therein . Balow , balow , etc Balow my babe , spare thou thy tears , Until thou come to wit and years , Thy griefs are gathering to a sum , Heaven grant thee patience till they come , A mother's fault a father's shame , A hapless state , a bastards name . Balow , balow , etc Be still my babe , and sleep a while , And when thou wakes then sweetly smile : But smile not as thy father did To cusen maids : Oh heaven forbid And yet into thy face I see Thy Father dear which tempted me . Balow , balow , etc Balow my babe , Oh follow not His faithless steps who thee begotten Nor glory in a maids disgrace , For thou art his too much , alace , And in thy looking eyes I read Who overthrew my maiden head . Balow , balow , etc O if I were a maid again , All young men's flatteries I'd refrain : Because unto my grief I find , That they are faithless and unkind , Their tempting terms hath bred my harm Bear witness babe lies in my arm Balow , balow . etc Balow my babe , spare yet thy tears , Until thou come to wit and years : Perhaps yet thou may come to be , A courteour by disdaining me : Poor me , poor me ; alas poor me , My own two eyes have blinded me Balow , balow , etc On Love and fortune I complain , On them , and on my self also : But most of all mine own two eyes The chiefest workers of my woe . For they have caused so my smart , That I must die without a heart , Balow , balow , etc Balow my babe , thy Father's dead To me the Prodigal hath played : Of heaven and earth regardless he Prefer'd the wars to me and thee , I doubt that now his cursing mind Make him eat accorns with the swine Balow , balow , etc , Farewell , farewell , most faithless youth That ever kissed a woman's mouth , Let never a woman after me , Submit unto the courtesy . For if she do , Oh cruel thou . Would wrong them : Oh who can tell how ? Balow , balow , etc FINIS THE NEW BALOW : OR , A Wenches Lamentation for the loss of her Sweet-hear he having left her with a Babe to play her , be - ing the Fruits of her Folly . The Tune is Balow . BAlow , my Babe , weep not for me : Whose greatest grief's for wronging thee , But pity her deserved smart , Who can but blame her own kind heart , For trusting to a flattering friend ; The fairest tongue the falsest mind . Balow , my babe , etc Balow my Babe , lie still and sleep , It grieves me soar to hear thee weep : If thou be still I will be glad , Thy weeping makes thy mother sad : Balow , my boy , thy mother's joy , Thy father wrought me great annoy . Balow , balow , etc First when he came to court my love , With sugared words he did me move ; His flattering and feigned cheer , To me that time did not appear . But now , I see that cruel be , Cares neither for my babe nor me . Balow , balow , etc I cannot choose but love him still . Although that he hath done me ill , For he hath stolen away my heart , And from him it cannot depar In well or woe , where ere he go , I'll love him though he be my foe . Balow , Balow , etc But peace my comfort , curse not him Who now in seas of grief does swim Perhaps of death : for who can tell , Whither the Judge of heaven or hell , By some predestinated death , Revenging me , hath stopped his breath . Balow , Balow , etc If I were near those fatal bounds ; Where he lie groaning in his wounds : Repeating as he pants for breath , Her name that wounds more deep then death Oh then what women's heart so strong Would not forget the greatest wrong . Balow , balow , etc If linen lack , for my loves sake , Whom once I loved : then would I take My smock even from my body meet , And wrap him in that winding sheet , Ay me how happy had I been , If he had never been wrapped therein . Balow , balow , etc Balow my babe , spare thou thy tears , Until thou come to wit and years , Thy griefs are gathering to a sum , Heaven grant thee patience till they come , A mother's fault a father's shame , A hapless state , a bastards name . Balow , balow , etc Be still my babe , and sleep a while , And when thou wakes then sweetly smile : But smile not as thy father did To cusen maids : Oh heaven forbid And yet into thy face I see Thy Father dear which tempted me . Balow , balow , etc Balow my babe , Oh follow not His faithless steps who thee begotten Nor glory in a maids disgrace , For thou art his too much , alace , And in thy looking eyes I read Who overthrew my maiden head . Balow , balow , etc O if I were a maid again , All young men's flatteries I'd refrain : Because unto my grief I find , That they are faithless and unkind , Their tempting terms hath bred my harm Bear witness babe lies in my arm Balow , balow . etc Balow my babe , spare yet thy tears , Until thou come to wit and years : Perhaps yet thou may come to be , A courteour by disdaining me : Poor me , poor me ; alas poor me , My own two eyes have blinded me Balow , balow , etc On Love and fortune I complain , On them , and on my self also : But most of all mine own two eyes The chiefest workers of my woe . For they have caused so my smart , That I must die without a heart , Balow , balow , etc Balow my babe , thy Father's dead To me the Prodigal hath played : Of heaven and earth regardless he Prefer'd the wars to me and thee , I doubt that now his cursing mind Make him eat accorns with the swine Balow , balow , etc , Farewell , farewell , most faithless youth That ever kissed a woman's mouth , Let never a woman after me , Submit unto the courtesy . For if she do , Oh cruel thou . Would wrong them : Oh who can tell how ? Balow , balow , etc FINIS 