The St. GILES's Frolic , or SMITH's Ramble for New Adventures . I The other night was drunk , And somewhat merry , Went in search of a punk , Not finding any . To St. Giles I did stroll , Whores there is plenty , At every corner of the Street , Not less than twenty . Sweep soot Oh , mop spinning Nan , Huging and billing , Nan you whore let's have a dram , Yes , Tom I am willing : To a gin ken , strait they went , I laugh'd till my sides ached , To hear them bawl bring half a pint , Of old strip me naked . Next down a cellar I did peep , Hearing a growling , A hang'd man cover'd with a sheet , The Pats o'er him a howling , Oh harrah dear why would you die , And leave your dear honey , I wish the tief you'd ne'er come nigh , Nor never touch'd his money . Next in Church lane one I know well , At black Rachel snatches , In Summer time nosegays she sells , In winter time matches . He hugg'd and kissed and call'd her dear , The black bitch did finny , While he was bobbing at her ware , She nailed all his money . Then I roll'd to Maynard Street , Some whores I herd scolding , Through a key hold I did peep , Such a scene beholding . Says Bess to Kate , I think of late , We have god our hire ; Of pox and itch such moan did make Anointing by the fire . In Monmouth Street a drunken buck Met with a madam , Soon as the bargain they had struck , She to a Watchman had him . Let me you're Watch box occupy , I'll bug to you a shilling , Here damn you , don't the bit deny , The scout cry'd I am willing . Short's Gardens I next did see . Two whores a fighting , Y [ oh ] u bitch says one , you slanged me , In the bit dividing The parrole upon my soul , Did to the round house take them , Half naked they were drag'd away , With cold shivering and shaking , Down Holborn-Hill , homeward I steer'd , I saw a rig funny , A blackmoor there met a whore And swore he'd feel her c-y . 'Twas on a butcher's block , Oh look He gave poor bunn the cholic , At growing day , I came away Well pleased with my frolic . The St. GILES's Frolic , or SMITH's Ramble for New Adventures . I The other night was drunk , And somewhat merry , Went in search of a punk , Not finding any . To St. Giles I did stroll , Whores there is plenty , At every corner of the Street , Not less than twenty . Sweep soot Oh , mop spinning Nan , Huging and billing , Nan you whore let's have a dram , Yes , Tom I am willing : To a gin ken , strait they went , I laugh'd till my sides ached , To hear them bawl bring half a pint , Of old strip me naked . Next down a cellar I did peep , Hearing a growling , A hang'd man cover'd with a sheet , The Pats o'er him a howling , Oh harrah dear why would you die , And leave your dear honey , I wish the tief you'd ne'er come nigh , Nor never touch'd his money . Next in Church lane one I know well , At black Rachel snatches , In Summer time nosegays she sells , In winter time matches . He hugg'd and kissed and call'd her dear , The black bitch did finny , While he was bobbing at her ware , She nailed all his money . Then I roll'd to Maynard Street , Some whores I herd scolding , Through a key hold I did peep , Such a scene beholding . Says Bess to Kate , I think of late , We have god our hire ; Of pox and itch such moan did make Anointing by the fire . In Monmouth Street a drunken buck Met with a madam , Soon as the bargain they had struck , She to a Watchman had him . Let me you're Watch box occupy , I'll bug to you a shilling , Here damn you , don't the bit deny , The scout cry'd I am willing . Short's Gardens I next did see . Two whores a fighting , Y [ oh ] u bitch says one , you slanged me , In the bit dividing The parrole upon my soul , Did to the round house take them , Half naked they were drag'd away , With cold shivering and shaking , Down Holborn-Hill , homeward I steer'd , I saw a rig funny , A blackmoor there met a whore And swore he'd feel her c-y . 'Twas on a butcher's block , Oh look He gave poor bunn the cholic , At growing day , I came away Well pleased with my frolic . 