A NEW PRESBYTERIAN BALLAD , To the old Tune of , The clean contrary way . 1. [ Alas ] poor Whiggs , our Senat's gone , Our Glory's now a setting : [ The P ] opish Plot's laid at our door , [ A Bas ] tard of our getting : [ Our b ] loody Cheats , and Shifts & Tricks , [ A ] and all our Devilish Play [ Will ] be disclos'd and we prov'd saints The clean contrary way . 2. Discoverers will discovered be , As paltry purjur'd stuff , [ A ] and we the Hellish Plotters , that Prepar'd such Hell-hound-Proof : [ We ] had the face to guild their Vice , And them like Saints display , [ A ] and wheedled them to swear the Truth The clean contrary way . 3. We made their piteous Nonsense good , And Contradictions true , And relished their unlikely Tales , So blundering like blind Hugh . What car'd we , if they damn'd themselves ? So we obtain'd the day , And meritorious make our work The clear contrary way . 4. When men did scruple to believe Things , so absurd to Reason ; We scorned Reasons Balance , and We still cry'd , Treason , Treason ; When the Informers halted had Our hubbubs boar the sway , Affrighting folks into their wits , The clean contrary way . 5. Such Toolls we rack'd for Evidence , Like those , that search in Ditches , And darksome holes for poisonous Toads , And hungry sucking Leeches : We gull'd Fitz-harris for more guile , The guitless to betray : For which he'l reap a sweet reward The clean contrary way . 6. We made the Papists Traitors all , [ That ] at none the Snare might escape , [ And ] all the Royal Protestants [ We woe ] uld bring in the Trap : They Must be Romanizers too , What e'r they do or say [ And ] zealous wishers to the Pope The clean contrary way . 7. The Realms Religion , that's by Law In its Establishment , We made as if afraid to loose , Though from it we dissent ; The Church of England in the dust That level we would lay To show our selves true Protestants The clean contrary way . 8 The long-black-rebel-Parliament We stood to vindicate , We blossom'd new in th'good Old Cause Of Commonwealth and State ; Yet Monmouths Duke cry'd up the while And us'd him like a Toy A future Monarch he's design'd , The clean contrary way . 9. 'Twas such , as we , for Charles the first , With many a Protestation His Glory did so much pretend , His Weal and Preservation ; But drew the sword against his Friends , And forc'd them all away , And him forlorn they did preserve , The clean contrary way . 10. It such , as we , the second Charles Did scornfully disown , Call'd him the Common Enemy Debar'd him from his Throne : Who now , but we , cry out of Plots , And for his safety pray , And stand up stout in his defence The clean contrary way . 11. It such , as we , in Scotland late Twice actually Rebel'd , And ( Maugre all the Mercy here ) Our English venom swel'd : We to Oblivions act so kind Unkind Oblivion pay Like cherished Vipers yielding thanks The clean contrary way . 12. Yet we assum'd the confidence Though conscious of what's passed , To busy our Petitions bold , So frequent and so fas Instead of Blest , we Blasted are , Alack and well aday ! And we henceforth shall trusted be The clean contrary w [ ay . ] Printed in the Year , 1681. A NEW PRESBYTERIAN BALLAD , To the old Tune of , The clean contrary way . 1. [ Alas ] poor Whiggs , our Senat's gone , Our Glory's now a setting : [ The P ] opish Plot's laid at our door , [ A Bas ] tard of our getting : [ Our b ] loody Cheats , and Shifts & Tricks , [ A ] and all our Devilish Play [ Will ] be disclos'd and we prov'd saints The clean contrary way . 2. Discoverers will discovered be , As paltry purjur'd stuff , [ A ] and we the Hellish Plotters , that Prepar'd such Hell-hound-Proof : [ We ] had the face to guild their Vice , And them like Saints display , [ A ] and wheedled them to swear the Truth The clean contrary way . 3. We made their piteous Nonsense good , And Contradictions true , And relished their unlikely Tales , So blundering like blind Hugh . What car'd we , if they damn'd themselves ? So we obtain'd the day , And meritorious make our work The clear contrary way . 4. When men did scruple to believe Things , so absurd to Reason ; We scorned Reasons Balance , and We still cry'd , Treason , Treason ; When the Informers halted had Our hubbubs boar the sway , Affrighting folks into their wits , The clean contrary way . 5. Such Toolls we rack'd for Evidence , Like those , that search in Ditches , And darksome holes for poisonous Toads , And hungry sucking Leeches : We gull'd Fitz-harris for more guile , The guitless to betray : For which he'l reap a sweet reward The clean contrary way . 6. We made the Papists Traitors all , [ That ] at none the Snare might escape , [ And ] all the Royal Protestants [ We woe ] uld bring in the Trap : They Must be Romanizers too , What e'r they do or say [ And ] zealous wishers to the Pope The clean contrary way . 7. The Realms Religion , that's by Law In its Establishment , We made as if afraid to loose , Though from it we dissent ; The Church of England in the dust That level we would lay To show our selves true Protestants The clean contrary way . 8 The long-black-rebel-Parliament We stood to vindicate , We blossom'd new in th'good Old Cause Of Commonwealth and State ; Yet Monmouths Duke cry'd up the while And us'd him like a Toy A future Monarch he's design'd , The clean contrary way . 9. 'Twas such , as we , for Charles the first , With many a Protestation His Glory did so much pretend , His Weal and Preservation ; But drew the sword against his Friends , And forc'd them all away , And him forlorn they did preserve , The clean contrary way . 10. It such , as we , the second Charles Did scornfully disown , Call'd him the Common Enemy Debar'd him from his Throne : Who now , but we , cry out of Plots , And for his safety pray , And stand up stout in his defence The clean contrary way . 11. It such , as we , in Scotland late Twice actually Rebel'd , And ( Maugre all the Mercy here ) Our English venom swel'd : We to Oblivions act so kind Unkind Oblivion pay Like cherished Vipers yielding thanks The clean contrary way . 12. Yet we assum'd the confidence Though conscious of what's passed , To busy our Petitions bold , So frequent and so fas Instead of Blest , we Blasted are , Alack and well aday ! And we henceforth shall trusted be The clean contrary w [ ay . ] Printed in the Year , 1681. 