A New BALLAD , Composed by a Lover , in praise of his Mistress . To a new Tune , I'le fix my Fancy on thee . WHen first thy Feature and thy face , I seriously espied , I thought to thee there was no Grace , which Nature had denied : The more I look'd , the more I lov'd , contemplating upon thee , At length the force of love me mov [ ' ] worser to fix my fancy on thee . Thy Heads as the highest sphere , adorn'd with all the Graces , Thy Soul sits as Commander there , o'rspread with dangling Traces ; Which through the Casements of thine Eyes sends forth such flames upon me , That I am forc'd to sympathise , and fix my fancy on thee . Thy Nose below mount-fore-head lies , proportion'd well by Nature , Which does divide thy crystal Eyes , and makes a comely Creature ; Thy odoriferous Breath attracts my soul to cease upon thee , And since thou art without compare , I fix my fancy on thee , Thy Thighs as Ivory columns are , by Nature's kind well framed , Betwixt there is a place I [ ' ] le spare , which shall not here be nam ; But surely it attractive is , which makes me think upon thee , But since thou'rt , mine I will design , to fix my fancy on thee . FINIS . A New BALLAD , Composed by a Lover , in praise of his Mistress . To a new Tune , I'le fix my Fancy on thee . WHen first thy Feature and thy face , I seriously espied , I thought to thee there was no Grace , which Nature had denied : The more I look'd , the more I lov'd , contemplating upon thee , At length the force of love me mov [ ' ] worser to fix my fancy on thee . Thy Heads as the highest sphere , adorn'd with all the Graces , Thy Soul sits as Commander there , o'rspread with dangling Traces ; Which through the Casements of thine Eyes sends forth such flames upon me , That I am forc'd to sympathise , and fix my fancy on thee . Thy Nose below mount-fore-head lies , proportion'd well by Nature , Which does divide thy crystal Eyes , and makes a comely Creature ; Thy odoriferous Breath attracts my soul to cease upon thee , And since thou art without compare , I fix my fancy on thee , Thy Thighs as Ivory columns are , by Nature's kind well framed , Betwixt there is a place I [ ' ] le spare , which shall not here be nam ; But surely it attractive is , which makes me think upon thee , But since thou'rt , mine I will design , to fix my fancy on thee . FINIS . 