The Crafty MISS , Or , And Exciseman well fitted . Being a true Relation of and Exciseman who lately in the County of Kent , had received the sum of fourscore pounds , and lighting into the Company of a Crafty Miss who gave him the Choose for it all ; and riding away with his Gelding , left in the stead a Mare which she had stole ; for which Mare he was arraigned , and narrowly escaped the severe penalty of the Law : which may be a sufficient warning to all Excisemen far and near , to amend their lives , to hate a Miss , and love their Wives . To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . THere was and Exciseman so fine , road into the County of Kent , And there he received much Coin , for that very bustness he wen He met with a jolly brave Miss , her beauty was fair to behold , But she gave him a judas kiss , and shew'd him a trick for his Gold . She rod on a bonny brave Mare , he rid on a Gelding also , He whisper'd a word in her ear . straight way to and Inn they did go He was of a pretty Condition , he call'd her the joy of his life , And then without any suspicion , they passed for Husband and Wife . They set up the Mare and the Gelding , and call'd for a Supper with speed , Their Wine it was plentily fill'd in , and lovingly then they agreed : Oh then they were heartily merry , their joys did begin to abound , They drank up full brimmers of sherry and the Glass it went merrily round , He had not the sighed of his folly , found love had so blinded his eyes , Oh then he was heartily jolly , he thought he had got a prize , Then while they most lovingly greeted , he thought he was certainly blessed , But ne'r was Exciseman so Cheated , Oh now comes the Cream of the jest . He pull'd out a Purse full of Gold , which he had receiv'd for Excise , And said to his Landlord , behold , keep this till next morning we rise ; His Miss she did call him her Honey , and straight to embracing they fallen , But her mind still run on the money , to give him the Choose for it all And while he was snoring and sleeping , she thought it no time to delay , But giving the Landlord a Meeting , Oh thus unto him she did say : My husband he has not the power , to rise although it be day , Yet he hath appointed and hour to pay all this money away . The time does begin to expire , then prithee now saddle his Steed , And Landlord I do you desire , to fetch me the Money with speed : The Innkeeper he did believe it , and fetch her the fourscore pound , And she was as glad to receive it , she neither spar'd Horseflesh nor ground But when the Exciseman did waken , and found that his Miss she was fled , And seeing himself thus forsaken , while he had been sleeping a Bed , Oh then how he rapped and thounder'd , he was in a Choleric heat ; His Pockets was pillag'd and plunderd he found he had met with a Cheat . The Landlord the Chamber did enter , and bowing himself to the ground , Sir have you forgotten where you sent her to pay in the fourscore pound ? The Landlord no sooner had said it , but then he was daunted straightway But yet for the sake of his Credit , Oh never a word he would say . But then he was fretting and petting , he had ne'r a penny of Coal , His Miss rid away with the Gelding , and left him a Mare she had stole : For which they did soon apprehend him , in sorrow he then did complain , For they to a Prison did send him , where he did till Sizes remain . And there he was 'raign'd at the Bar , beside all the Money he lost . O now you Excise-men beware , you see in your Courting you're crossed The Bill it had like to been found , because he had called her his Wife It cost him many a pound , and had like to have cost him his life . This was in Rochester City , the truth you may certainly find , The people afforded no pity , but said he was serv'd in his kind : But now the Exciseman is sorry , that ever he met with this Jads , For sure she had learned her Jurry , she lacked but a stock to her Trade . FINIS . The Crafty MISS , Or , And Exciseman well fitted . Being a true Relation of and Exciseman who lately in the County of Kent , had received the sum of fourscore pounds , and lighting into the Company of a Crafty Miss who gave him the Choose for it all ; and riding away with his Gelding , left in the stead a Mare which she had stole ; for which Mare he was arraigned , and narrowly escaped the severe penalty of the Law : which may be a sufficient warning to all Excisemen far and near , to amend their lives , to hate a Miss , and love their Wives . To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . THere was and Exciseman so fine , road into the County of Kent , And there he received much Coin , for that very bustness he wen He met with a jolly brave Miss , her beauty was fair to behold , But she gave him a judas kiss , and shew'd him a trick for his Gold . She rod on a bonny brave Mare , he rid on a Gelding also , He whisper'd a word in her ear . straight way to and Inn they did go He was of a pretty Condition , he call'd her the joy of his life , And then without any suspicion , they passed for Husband and Wife . They set up the Mare and the Gelding , and call'd for a Supper with speed , Their Wine it was plentily fill'd in , and lovingly then they agreed : Oh then they were heartily merry , their joys did begin to abound , They drank up full brimmers of sherry and the Glass it went merrily round , He had not the sighed of his folly , found love had so blinded his eyes , Oh then he was heartily jolly , he thought he had got a prize , Then while they most lovingly greeted , he thought he was certainly blessed , But ne'r was Exciseman so Cheated , Oh now comes the Cream of the jest . He pull'd out a Purse full of Gold , which he had receiv'd for Excise , And said to his Landlord , behold , keep this till next morning we rise ; His Miss she did call him her Honey , and straight to embracing they fallen , But her mind still run on the money , to give him the Choose for it all And while he was snoring and sleeping , she thought it no time to delay , But giving the Landlord a Meeting , Oh thus unto him she did say : My husband he has not the power , to rise although it be day , Yet he hath appointed and hour to pay all this money away . The time does begin to expire , then prithee now saddle his Steed , And Landlord I do you desire , to fetch me the Money with speed : The Innkeeper he did believe it , and fetch her the fourscore pound , And she was as glad to receive it , she neither spar'd Horseflesh nor ground But when the Exciseman did waken , and found that his Miss she was fled , And seeing himself thus forsaken , while he had been sleeping a Bed , Oh then how he rapped and thounder'd , he was in a Choleric heat ; His Pockets was pillag'd and plunderd he found he had met with a Cheat . The Landlord the Chamber did enter , and bowing himself to the ground , Sir have you forgotten where you sent her to pay in the fourscore pound ? The Landlord no sooner had said it , but then he was daunted straightway But yet for the sake of his Credit , Oh never a word he would say . But then he was fretting and petting , he had ne'r a penny of Coal , His Miss rid away with the Gelding , and left him a Mare she had stole : For which they did soon apprehend him , in sorrow he then did complain , For they to a Prison did send him , where he did till Sizes remain . And there he was 'raign'd at the Bar , beside all the Money he lost . O now you Excise-men beware , you see in your Courting you're crossed The Bill it had like to been found , because he had called her his Wife It cost him many a pound , and had like to have cost him his life . This was in Rochester City , the truth you may certainly find , The people afforded no pity , but said he was serv'd in his kind : But now the Exciseman is sorry , that ever he met with this Jads , For sure she had learned her Jurry , she lacked but a stock to her Trade . FINIS . 