A DIALOGUE Between Jack and his Mother , etc Tune of , Old Woman Poor and Blind . JAck met his Mother all alone , to whom he did smiling say , I'll go and visit buxom Joan , because it is Holiday : And being in my Roast-meat Clothes , I hope she will like me well ; If Joan be kind , my heart , my mind , to her I will freely tell . My son she's lusty , large , and tall , and thou art but young as yet , Thy whole proportion is but small , she'll swallow thee at a bit , And hide thee in her hollow Cave , from ever glance of light , Upon my life take her to wife , and then thou art ruin'd quite . I pray dear mother say not so , you speak in your sons disgrace ; Behold my beard begins to grow , and I have a manly Face , With something else to pleasure Joan according to Art and skill , Since it is so , I'de have you know , I must have a wife , and will . Go to her then , with all my heart , and when she's made thy spouse , With half my Goods I'll freely part , my weathers , & good milsh Cows , My Geese , my ducks ; my cocks , my hens , my wagons , my blows my teams 'Cause you declare in love you are , and must have a wife it seems , So soon as her discourse was done , without any more dispute , Jack to his Chamber straight did run , and put on his Leathern suit , His broad brim'd Hat , and Ribbon read , now when he was thus array'd , Himself he view'd and did conclude , that he was a brisk Young blade , Then he away to Joan did Ride , and when he came there he Cries , Sweet Jewel , wilt thou be my bride , my honey my sweet piggssies , To thee I have a present brought a delicate gay gold Ring , Then let us wed , and when we bed , thou shalt have a better thing . Then buxom Joan began to frown and called him saucy slave , Saying that no such home bred Clown her Maidenhead e're should have , Why whats the matter , he reply'd ; without any more ado . I'de have you know if hence I go , I can have as good as you : There's Doll the shepherd's daughter dear , and Katy of high degree , Who has at least three mark a year , they're ready to Die for me ; And must I now be held in scorn , and made a Redicule too . By Buxom Joan it is well known , I can have as good as you . My mother she has horses , wains , and delicate cows and calfs , Geese , Capons , Turkeys , Cocks , & Hens , and I am to go her halfs ; The Goods likewise must parted be , as soon as I am Marry'd too , What say you now , you saucy sow ? I can have as good as you With that he went to take his leave , and just as he turn'd aside , Joan stepped , & catch'd him by the sleeve I was but in Jest , she cry'd , What makes you be in so much haste , if me thou art come to woo ? We'l never part , thou hast my heart , I'll marry with none but you , You might have told me this at first , before you had Vexed me so , And then perhaps I might have Buss'd , my Joany for ought I know ; But you did so inflame my wrath , that I in a Passion flew ; There's Girls good store at e'cry door , I can have as good as you . Joan in a merry humour smil'd , and took him about the waste ; Said prithee John be reconcil'd , it was but a word in haste [ e ] ; A kind and Virtuous Wife I'll prove I'll honour and Love thee too , Why then quoth he I do agree , to marry with none but you . FINIS . A DIALOGUE Between Jack and his Mother , etc Tune of , Old Woman Poor and Blind . JAck met his Mother all alone , to whom he did smiling say , I'll go and visit buxom Joan , because it is Holiday : And being in my Roast-meat Clothes , I hope she will like me well ; If Joan be kind , my heart , my mind , to her I will freely tell . My son she's lusty , large , and tall , and thou art but young as yet , Thy whole proportion is but small , she'll swallow thee at a bit , And hide thee in her hollow Cave , from ever glance of light , Upon my life take her to wife , and then thou art ruin'd quite . I pray dear mother say not so , you speak in your sons disgrace ; Behold my beard begins to grow , and I have a manly Face , With something else to pleasure Joan according to Art and skill , Since it is so , I'de have you know , I must have a wife , and will . Go to her then , with all my heart , and when she's made thy spouse , With half my Goods I'll freely part , my weathers , & good milsh Cows , My Geese , my ducks ; my cocks , my hens , my wagons , my blows my teams 'Cause you declare in love you are , and must have a wife it seems , So soon as her discourse was done , without any more dispute , Jack to his Chamber straight did run , and put on his Leathern suit , His broad brim'd Hat , and Ribbon read , now when he was thus array'd , Himself he view'd and did conclude , that he was a brisk Young blade , Then he away to Joan did Ride , and when he came there he Cries , Sweet Jewel , wilt thou be my bride , my honey my sweet piggssies , To thee I have a present brought a delicate gay gold Ring , Then let us wed , and when we bed , thou shalt have a better thing . Then buxom Joan began to frown and called him saucy slave , Saying that no such home bred Clown her Maidenhead e're should have , Why whats the matter , he reply'd ; without any more ado . I'de have you know if hence I go , I can have as good as you : There's Doll the shepherd's daughter dear , and Katy of high degree , Who has at least three mark a year , they're ready to Die for me ; And must I now be held in scorn , and made a Redicule too . By Buxom Joan it is well known , I can have as good as you . My mother she has horses , wains , and delicate cows and calfs , Geese , Capons , Turkeys , Cocks , & Hens , and I am to go her halfs ; The Goods likewise must parted be , as soon as I am Marry'd too , What say you now , you saucy sow ? I can have as good as you With that he went to take his leave , and just as he turn'd aside , Joan stepped , & catch'd him by the sleeve I was but in Jest , she cry'd , What makes you be in so much haste , if me thou art come to woo ? We'l never part , thou hast my heart , I'll marry with none but you , You might have told me this at first , before you had Vexed me so , And then perhaps I might have Buss'd , my Joany for ought I know ; But you did so inflame my wrath , that I in a Passion flew ; There's Girls good store at e'cry door , I can have as good as you . Joan in a merry humour smil'd , and took him about the waste ; Said prithee John be reconcil'd , it was but a word in haste [ e ] ; A kind and Virtuous Wife I'll prove I'll honour and Love thee too , Why then quoth he I do agree , to marry with none but you . FINIS . 