.1 A PROPER NEW BALLAD , Entitled , The Granadeers Rant . To its own proper New Tune , High the brave Granadeers , Ho. CAptain Hume is bound to Sea , Heigh boys , ho boys : Captain Hume is bound to Sea , Ho : Captain Hume is bound to Sea , And his brave company ; Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. We'le drink no more Irish Beer Heigh boys , ho boys : We'le drink no more Irish Beer Ho : [ We'le ] drink no more Irish Beer , For we're all bound for Tangier , Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. We'le drink the Spanish Wine , Heigh boys , ho boys : We'le drink the Spanish Wine Ho : We'le drink the Spanish Wine , And Court their Ladies fine , Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. Now we're upon the Sounds , Heigh boys , ho boys ; Now we're upon the Sounds Ho : Now we're upon the Sounds , Every men health goes round , Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. When we came to Calls on Shore , Heigh boys , ho boys ; When we came to Calls on Shore Ho : When we came to Calls on Shore We made the Guns to roar , Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. Now we drink the Spanish Wine , Heigh boys , ho boys : Now we drink the Spanish Wine Ho : Now we drink the Spanish Wine : And kiss their Ladies fine , Heigh the brave Scottish boys Ho. When we do view Tangier , Heigh boys , ho boys : When we do view Tangier , Ho Now we do see Tangier , We'le make these proud Moors to fear : Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. When we come to Tangier shore , Heigh boys . ho boys ; When we come to Tangier shore Ho : When we Land on Tangier shore . We'le make our Granads to roar ; Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. When we come upon the Mould , Heigh boys , ho boys ; When we come upon the Mould Ho : When we come upon the Mould . We'le make these proud Moors to yield , Heigh the brave Scottish boys Ho. When we come upon the Wall , Heigh boys , ho boys ; When we come upon the Wall Ho : When we come upon the Wall ; We'le make these proud Moors to fallen ; Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. There's Hacket , Hume and Hodge , heigh boys , ho boys ; There's Hacket , Hume and Hodge , ho : There's Hacket , Hume and Hodge , In Charles's Fort shall lodge , Heigh the brave Granadeers ho . Hacket led on the Van , heigh boys , ho boys ; Hacket led on the Van , ho : Hacket led on the Van , Where was kill'd many a man ; heigh the brave Scottish boys ho . Sixty brave Granadeers , heigh boys , ho boys ; Sixty brave Granadeers ho : Sixty brave Granadeers , Beatrice the Moors from Tangiers , heigh the brave Scottish boys ho . FINIS . .1 A PROPER NEW BALLAD , Entitled , The Granadeers Rant . To its own proper New Tune , High the brave Granadeers , Ho. CAptain Hume is bound to Sea , Heigh boys , ho boys : Captain Hume is bound to Sea , Ho : Captain Hume is bound to Sea , And his brave company ; Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. We'le drink no more Irish Beer Heigh boys , ho boys : We'le drink no more Irish Beer Ho : [ We'le ] drink no more Irish Beer , For we're all bound for Tangier , Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. We'le drink the Spanish Wine , Heigh boys , ho boys : We'le drink the Spanish Wine Ho : We'le drink the Spanish Wine , And Court their Ladies fine , Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. Now we're upon the Sounds , Heigh boys , ho boys ; Now we're upon the Sounds Ho : Now we're upon the Sounds , Every men health goes round , Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. When we came to Calls on Shore , Heigh boys , ho boys ; When we came to Calls on Shore Ho : When we came to Calls on Shore We made the Guns to roar , Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. Now we drink the Spanish Wine , Heigh boys , ho boys : Now we drink the Spanish Wine Ho : Now we drink the Spanish Wine : And kiss their Ladies fine , Heigh the brave Scottish boys Ho. When we do view Tangier , Heigh boys , ho boys : When we do view Tangier , Ho Now we do see Tangier , We'le make these proud Moors to fear : Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. When we come to Tangier shore , Heigh boys . ho boys ; When we come to Tangier shore Ho : When we Land on Tangier shore . We'le make our Granads to roar ; Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. When we come upon the Mould , Heigh boys , ho boys ; When we come upon the Mould Ho : When we come upon the Mould . We'le make these proud Moors to yield , Heigh the brave Scottish boys Ho. When we come upon the Wall , Heigh boys , ho boys ; When we come upon the Wall Ho : When we come upon the Wall ; We'le make these proud Moors to fallen ; Heigh the brave Granadeers Ho. There's Hacket , Hume and Hodge , heigh boys , ho boys ; There's Hacket , Hume and Hodge , ho : There's Hacket , Hume and Hodge , In Charles's Fort shall lodge , Heigh the brave Granadeers ho . Hacket led on the Van , heigh boys , ho boys ; Hacket led on the Van , ho : Hacket led on the Van , Where was kill'd many a man ; heigh the brave Scottish boys ho . Sixty brave Granadeers , heigh boys , ho boys ; Sixty brave Granadeers ho : Sixty brave Granadeers , Beatrice the Moors from Tangiers , heigh the brave Scottish boys ho . FINIS . 