The Woody Queristers When Birds could speak , and Women they , Had neither good nor ill to say ? The pretty Birds fill'd with pain , Did to each other , thus Complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-Catchers Delight . O ! says the Cuckcow , loud and stout , I fly the Country round abou While other Birds my young-ones feed And I myself do stand in need . Then says the Sparrow on her nest , I lov'd a Lass but it was in jest And ever since that selfsame thing , I made a vow I near would sing . In comes the Robin and thus he said , I lov'd once a well favoured maid : Her beauty kindled such a spark That on my breast I bear the mark . Then said the Lark upon the grass , I lov'd onc [ e ] a well favour'd Lass , But she would not hear her true love sing Though he had a voice would please a King Then said the Blackbird as he fled , I loved one but she is dead : And ever since my Love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in Black . Then said the bonny Nightingale . Thus I must end my mournful tale : While others sing , I fit and mourn , Leaning my breast against a thorn . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then , I ne'r shall be my self again , I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause I wag my tail . Then said the pretty coloured Jay , My dearest Love is fled away : And in remembrance of my dear , A Feather of every sort I wear . Then said the Leather-winged Batt , Mind but my tale , and i'le tell you what , Is the cause I do fly by nigh Because I lost my hearts delight . Then said the Green-Bird as she flew , I loved one that prov'd untrue And since she can no more be seen , Like a Lovesick made I turn so green , Then did begin the Chattering Swallow My Love she is fled , but I would not follow And now upon the Chimney high I sing forth my poor melody . Oh! says the Owl , my love is gone , That I so much did dote upon : I know not how my love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing , as she flies , I search the Meadows and the Skies But cannot find my Love again , So about I fly in deadly pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing Which does to me no comfort bring . For oftentime I at midnight , Record my Love and hearts Delight . The Canary-Bird she then comes in , To tell her tale she does begin : I am of my dear'st Love bereft , So I have my own Country left . The Chafinch then begins to squeak , For Love quoth he , my heart will break I grieve so for my only dear , I sing but two months in a year . Then quoth the Magpie . I was crossed , In Love and now my Dear is los And wanting of my hearts Delight , I mourn for him in Black and White . Oh! says the Rook and eke the Crow , The Reason why in Black we go : It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bulfinch he was in a rage . And nothing could his wrath assuage ; So in the woods , he would not Dwell , But spend his time in lonesome Cell . Thus you do hear the Birds complaint , Taking Delight in their Restrain Let this to all a pattern be , For to Delight in Constancy . The Woody Queristers When Birds could speak , and Women they , Had neither good nor ill to say ? The pretty Birds fill'd with pain , Did to each other , thus Complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-Catchers Delight . O ! says the Cuckcow , loud and stout , I fly the Country round abou While other Birds my young-ones feed And I myself do stand in need . Then says the Sparrow on her nest , I lov'd a Lass but it was in jest And ever since that selfsame thing , I made a vow I near would sing . In comes the Robin and thus he said , I lov'd once a well favoured maid : Her beauty kindled such a spark That on my breast I bear the mark . Then said the Lark upon the grass , I lov'd onc [ e ] a well favour'd Lass , But she would not hear her true love sing Though he had a voice would please a King Then said the Blackbird as he fled , I loved one but she is dead : And ever since my Love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in Black . Then said the bonny Nightingale . Thus I must end my mournful tale : While others sing , I fit and mourn , Leaning my breast against a thorn . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then , I ne'r shall be my self again , I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause I wag my tail . Then said the pretty coloured Jay , My dearest Love is fled away : And in remembrance of my dear , A Feather of every sort I wear . Then said the Leather-winged Batt , Mind but my tale , and i'le tell you what , Is the cause I do fly by nigh Because I lost my hearts delight . Then said the Green-Bird as she flew , I loved one that prov'd untrue And since she can no more be seen , Like a Lovesick made I turn so green , Then did begin the Chattering Swallow My Love she is fled , but I would not follow And now upon the Chimney high I sing forth my poor melody . Oh! says the Owl , my love is gone , That I so much did dote upon : I know not how my love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing , as she flies , I search the Meadows and the Skies But cannot find my Love again , So about I fly in deadly pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing Which does to me no comfort bring . For oftentime I at midnight , Record my Love and hearts Delight . The Canary-Bird she then comes in , To tell her tale she does begin : I am of my dear'st Love bereft , So I have my own Country left . The Chafinch then begins to squeak , For Love quoth he , my heart will break I grieve so for my only dear , I sing but two months in a year . Then quoth the Magpie . I was crossed , In Love and now my Dear is los And wanting of my hearts Delight , I mourn for him in Black and White . Oh! says the Rook and eke the Crow , The Reason why in Black we go : It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bulfinch he was in a rage . And nothing could his wrath assuage ; So in the woods , he would not Dwell , But spend his time in lonesome Cell . Thus you do hear the Birds complaint , Taking Delight in their Restrain Let this to all a pattern be , For to Delight in Constancy . 