The Woeful Lamentation of Jane Shore . IF Rosamond , that was so fair , Had cause her sorrow to declare ; Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , Who was beloved by a king . Then wanton wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In maiden years my beauty bright Was loved dear by lord and knight , But yet the Love as they requir'd It was not as my friends desir'd . My parent they for thirst of gain , A husband did for me obtain ; And I their pleasure to fulfil . Was forc'd to wed against my will . To Matthew Shore I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my Life , And then my Life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lament . In Lombard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of gold . I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woo , Because my friend I could not find Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name at court did ring , Into the ears of England's king . Who came and lik'd and Love requir'd , But I made coy what he desir'd . Yea , Mrs. Blague , a neighbout near , Whose friendship I esteemed dear , Did say , it is a gallant thing For to be loved by a king . By her persuasions I was led , For to defile my marriage bed , And wrong my loving husband Shore , Whom I had lov'd ten years before , In heart and mind I then rejoice , That I had made so good a choice . And therefore then my state resign , For to be king Edward's concubine . From city then to court I went . For to reap the pleasures of content . And had the joys that Love could bring , And knew the secrets of a king . When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with my eye , For Mrs. Blague I in short space Obtain [ ' ] worser a living from his grace , No friend I had , but in short time Did all unto promotion climb . But yet for all this costly pride , My husband could not me abide . His bed tho' wronged by a king , His heart with grief did vastly sting , From England then he goes away , For to end his Life upon the sea ; He could not live to see his name , Impaired by my wanton shame . Although a prince of peerless might Did take the pleasures of his right , Long time I lived in the court , With lords and laides of great sor For when I smil'd all men were glad , But when I wept my prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar , Unto helpless people being poor . I still supply'd the orphans cry , And sav'd their Lives condemn'd to die . I still had truth on widows tears , And helped babes of infant years . And never look'd for other gain , But love and thanks for all my pains . At last my royal king did die , And then my days of woe drew nigh : When crook back Richard god the crown , King Edward's friends were soon put down I then was punish'd for my since , Which I long time had lived in . Yea every one that was his friend , This tyrant brought to shameful end , Then for my lewd and wanton Life That was a strumpet of a wife , I penance did in Lombard street , In shameful manner in a sheet , Where many thousands did me view , Who late in court my valve knew . As made the tears run down my face , For to think on my foul disgrace . Not thus content they took from me My goods , my livings , and my fee . And vow'd that none might me relieve , Or any succour to me give . Then unto Mrs Blague I went , Unto whom my jewels I had lent . In hope's thereby to ease my want , When riches fail'd , and Love was scant , But she deny'd to me the same , When in my need for them I came . To recompense me for my former Love , Out of doors she did me shove . So Love did vanish with my State , Which now my soul repents too late . Therefore example take by me , For friendship parts in poverty . But yet one friend among the rest , Whom once I had seen distressed , And sav'd his Life condemn'd to die , Did give some food to succour me . For which by Law it was decreed That he was hanged for the deed . His death did grieve me so much more , Than had I dy'd myself therefore , So those to whom I had done good , Durst not restore me any food . Whereby in vain I begg'd all day , And all the night still secret lay . My gown beset with pearl and gold Is turn'd to simple garments old . My chains and gems and golden rings , Unto filthy rags and loathsome things . So was I scorn'd by man and wife , For leading such a wicked Life , Both sucking babes and children small Did make a pastime at my fallen . I could not get one bit of bred , Whereby my hunger might be fed . No drink but such as channels yield , Or stinking ditches in the field . Thus weary of my Life , at Length , I yielded up my vital strength . Within a ditch of loathsome scent , Where carrion dogs do oft frequent . The which now since my dying day , Is shoreditch called unto this day , Which is a witness of my since , For being a concubine to a king . You wanton wives that fallen to Lust . Be you assur'd that God is just ; Whoredom will not escape his hand , Nor pride unpunish'd in this Land. If God to me such shame did bring , Who yielded only to a king . How shall they escape who daily run With every man to practise since . You husbands match not but for Love Lest you disliking after prove , Women be warn'd when you be wives , Such plagues attend on sinful Lives . So maids and wives in time amend , For Love and Beauty will have end . PART II IF that was fair London's pride , For beauty famed far and wide , With swanlike song , for so 'tis told Her deed distresses manifold . Kind Matthew shore men called me , A goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein Had not my wife been wed to since . Ah! gentle Jane , thy wanton raze Hath brougth me to this foul disgrace , Thou had all things at wish and will , Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London dame nor merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant Life . Then gentle Jane to me report Why you left me to live in court . Thou had both gold and silver store , No wife in London then had more . And oftentimes to walk in Field , For to see what pleasures it does yield . But woe to me ! that Liberty Hath brought me to that misery . I marry'd thee while thou wast young , Before though knewest what did belong Unto husbands Love or marriage state , But now my heart repents too late . This wanton Pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust ; But when the king possess'd my room , And cropped my rosy gallant bloom , Fair London's [ blossom ] and my joy , My heart was crown'd in deep annoy . For to think how to public shame , Thy wicked Life brought my good name . And then I thought each man and wife In jesting sort accus'd my Life . And every one to the other said How Shore's wife had the wanton play'd . Hereby in mind I thought to change My dwelling in some country strange . My Lands and Goods I sold away . And from England I went to sea , Oppressed with grief and woeful mind , But left the cause of grief behind . My loving wife whom I thought Would never be to lewdness brought . But women now I well espy , Are subject to inconstancy . And few there be so true to Love , But by long suit will wanton prove : For flesh is frail , and woman weak . When kings for love long suit do m [ ache ] But yet from England my depart Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a grievous look , Desiring God , if it might be , To send one sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou had'st but constant been , Such times of woe I ne'er had seen , But still I mourn and grieve full soar , Because great plagues are left in store . For such as careless tread awry In modest paths of constancy . Ah! gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go . And woeful tears for the I shed , For wronging of the marriage bed , So sure I am you must confess I loved true , tho' in distress . Both Flanders , France and Spain I passed And came to Turkey at the last . And there within that mighty course I lived long in honest sort , Desiring God that sits in Heaven , That all thy sins might be forgiven . And there advanc'd thy loving name , Of living Whites the fairest dame , The praise of England's beauty stain , All which your husband did maintain , And set thy picture there in gold , For kings and princes to behold . But when I though upon the since Your wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev'd at such a beauteous face Should hold true honour in disgrace ; And counted it a luckless day , When The Woeful Lamentation of Jane Shore . IF Rosamond , that was so fair , Had cause her sorrow to declare ; Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , Who was beloved by a king . Then wanton wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In maiden years my beauty bright Was loved dear by lord and knight , But yet the Love as they requir'd It was not as my friends desir'd . My parent they for thirst of gain , A husband did for me obtain ; And I their pleasure to fulfil . Was forc'd to wed against my will . To Matthew Shore I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my Life , And then my Life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lament . In Lombard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of gold . I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woo , Because my friend I could not find Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name at court did ring , Into the ears of England's king . Who came and lik'd and Love requir'd , But I made coy what he desir'd . Yea , Mrs. Blague , a neighbout near , Whose friendship I esteemed dear , Did say , it is a gallant thing For to be loved by a king . By her persuasions I was led , For to defile my marriage bed , And wrong my loving husband Shore , Whom I had lov'd ten years before , In heart and mind I then rejoice , That I had made so good a choice . And therefore then my state resign , For to be king Edward's concubine . From city then to court I went . For to reap the pleasures of content . And had the joys that Love could bring , And knew the secrets of a king . When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with my eye , For Mrs. Blague I in short space Obtain [ ' ] worser a living from his grace , No friend I had , but in short time Did all unto promotion climb . But yet for all this costly pride , My husband could not me abide . His bed tho' wronged by a king , His heart with grief did vastly sting , From England then he goes away , For to end his Life upon the sea ; He could not live to see his name , Impaired by my wanton shame . Although a prince of peerless might Did take the pleasures of his right , Long time I lived in the court , With lords and laides of great sor For when I smil'd all men were glad , But when I wept my prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar , Unto helpless people being poor . I still supply'd the orphans cry , And sav'd their Lives condemn'd to die . I still had truth on widows tears , And helped babes of infant years . And never look'd for other gain , But love and thanks for all my pains . At last my royal king did die , And then my days of woe drew nigh : When crook back Richard god the crown , King Edward's friends were soon put down I then was punish'd for my since , Which I long time had lived in . Yea every one that was his friend , This tyrant brought to shameful end , Then for my lewd and wanton Life That was a strumpet of a wife , I penance did in Lombard street , In shameful manner in a sheet , Where many thousands did me view , Who late in court my valve knew . As made the tears run down my face , For to think on my foul disgrace . Not thus content they took from me My goods , my livings , and my fee . And vow'd that none might me relieve , Or any succour to me give . Then unto Mrs Blague I went , Unto whom my jewels I had lent . In hope's thereby to ease my want , When riches fail'd , and Love was scant , But she deny'd to me the same , When in my need for them I came . To recompense me for my former Love , Out of doors she did me shove . So Love did vanish with my State , Which now my soul repents too late . Therefore example take by me , For friendship parts in poverty . But yet one friend among the rest , Whom once I had seen distressed , And sav'd his Life condemn'd to die , Did give some food to succour me . For which by Law it was decreed That he was hanged for the deed . His death did grieve me so much more , Than had I dy'd myself therefore , So those to whom I had done good , Durst not restore me any food . Whereby in vain I begg'd all day , And all the night still secret lay . My gown beset with pearl and gold Is turn'd to simple garments old . My chains and gems and golden rings , Unto filthy rags and loathsome things . So was I scorn'd by man and wife , For leading such a wicked Life , Both sucking babes and children small Did make a pastime at my fallen . I could not get one bit of bred , Whereby my hunger might be fed . No drink but such as channels yield , Or stinking ditches in the field . Thus weary of my Life , at Length , I yielded up my vital strength . Within a ditch of loathsome scent , Where carrion dogs do oft frequent . The which now since my dying day , Is shoreditch called unto this day , Which is a witness of my since , For being a concubine to a king . You wanton wives that fallen to Lust . Be you assur'd that God is just ; Whoredom will not escape his hand , Nor pride unpunish'd in this Land. If God to me such shame did bring , Who yielded only to a king . How shall they escape who daily run With every man to practise since . You husbands match not but for Love Lest you disliking after prove , Women be warn'd when you be wives , Such plagues attend on sinful Lives . So maids and wives in time amend , For Love and Beauty will have end . PART II IF that was fair London's pride , For beauty famed far and wide , With swanlike song , for so 'tis told Her deed distresses manifold . Kind Matthew shore men called me , A goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein Had not my wife been wed to since . Ah! gentle Jane , thy wanton raze Hath brougth me to this foul disgrace , Thou had all things at wish and will , Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London dame nor merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant Life . Then gentle Jane to me report Why you left me to live in court . Thou had both gold and silver store , No wife in London then had more . And oftentimes to walk in Field , For to see what pleasures it does yield . But woe to me ! that Liberty Hath brought me to that misery . I marry'd thee while thou wast young , Before though knewest what did belong Unto husbands Love or marriage state , But now my heart repents too late . This wanton Pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust ; But when the king possess'd my room , And cropped my rosy gallant bloom , Fair London's [ blossom ] and my joy , My heart was crown'd in deep annoy . For to think how to public shame , Thy wicked Life brought my good name . And then I thought each man and wife In jesting sort accus'd my Life . And every one to the other said How Shore's wife had the wanton play'd . Hereby in mind I thought to change My dwelling in some country strange . My Lands and Goods I sold away . And from England I went to sea , Oppressed with grief and woeful mind , But left the cause of grief behind . My loving wife whom I thought Would never be to lewdness brought . But women now I well espy , Are subject to inconstancy . And few there be so true to Love , But by long suit will wanton prove : For flesh is frail , and woman weak . When kings for love long suit do m [ ache ] But yet from England my depart Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a grievous look , Desiring God , if it might be , To send one sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou had'st but constant been , Such times of woe I ne'er had seen , But still I mourn and grieve full soar , Because great plagues are left in store . For such as careless tread awry In modest paths of constancy . Ah! gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go . And woeful tears for the I shed , For wronging of the marriage bed , So sure I am you must confess I loved true , tho' in distress . Both Flanders , France and Spain I passed And came to Turkey at the last . And there within that mighty course I lived long in honest sort , Desiring God that sits in Heaven , That all thy sins might be forgiven . And there advanc'd thy loving name , Of living Whites the fairest dame , The praise of England's beauty stain , All which your husband did maintain , And set thy picture there in gold , For kings and princes to behold . But when I though upon the since Your wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev'd at such a beauteous face Should hold true honour in disgrace ; And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray , Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My Secrets then I did impart To one well skill'd in magic art , Who in a glass did truly show , Such things as I desir'd to know . I there did see the courtly state , The pomp , the pride the glory great , And likewise there I did behold My Jane in Edward's arms enfold . Your secret Love I did espy , And how miserable you did die . Your naked body in the street I saw d ? worser penance in a she Barefooted before the beadle's wand , With burning taper in thy hand , And babes not having use of tongues , Stood pointing as you went along . Thus ended was the shame of thine , But still God gave no end to mine . When I suppos'd I was forgotten , And time had wash'd away my blot , And in another prince's reign . I came to England back again , But staying there , my friends decay'd , My prince's Laws I disobey'd , And by true justice judg'd to die , For clipping gold in secrecy By gold was my best living made , And so by gold I was betray'd . Thus have you herd the woeful strife , That came by and unconstant wife : Her fallen , my death , wherein is shew'd The story of a strumpet lewd . In hope's thereby some women may Take heed how they the wanton play . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . as thou first didst go astray , Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My Secrets then I did impart To one well skill'd in magic art , Who in a glass did truly show , Such things as I desir'd to know . I there did see the courtly state , The pomp , the pride the glory great , And likewise there I did behold My Jane in Edward's arms enfold . Your secret Love I did espy , And how miserable you did die . Your naked body in the street I saw d ? worser penance in a she Barefooted before the beadle's wand , With burning taper in thy hand , And babes not having use of tongues , Stood pointing as you went along . Thus ended was the shame of thine , But still God gave no end to mine . When I suppos'd I was forgotten , And time had wash'd away my blot , And in another prince's reign . I came to England back again , But staying there , my friends decay'd , My prince's Laws I disobey'd , And by true justice judg'd to die , For clipping gold in secrecy By gold was my best living made , And so by gold I was betray'd . Thus have you herd the woeful strife , That came by and unconstant wife : Her fallen , my death , wherein is shew'd The story of a strumpet lewd . In hope's thereby some women may Take heed how they the wanton play . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . 