Animadversions on the Lady Marquis : OR , Properties Display'd . View here the abstract of the World's great Frame , Whose worth for ever Morraliz'd a Name ; Whose noble gen'rous parts , I dare to say , Will get Renown , the clean contrary way : Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . THe Lady Marquis and her gang , are most in favour seen ; With Coach and Men on them to tend , as if she were a Queen : But if she be , 'tis of the Sluts , for all her fine Array , Whose Honour reaches to the Skies , But the clear contrary way . They have their choice of Music sweet , which does their senses Charm ; And there they fit like Saints to be , as if they knew no harm : But they can fit them to a Hair , by night or else by day ; And so they think to get Renown , But the clear contrary way . This House to them is like a Change , where all things may be had ; A Glass of Wine to cheer their heart , 'twill make their senses glad : There is a Proverb , If you Dance , the Fiddler you must pay ; At length it may their Fortune raise , But the clear contrary way . This not his Music nor his Wine , that makes them for to run , There is something else within the case , which is needful to be done : The which i'le give you leave to judge , in truth to you it may [ ; ] There's few returns a Ma [ id again , ] When hey boys down go they . There is and ill report abroad , which never yet was before ; What female Sex goes there are looked upon to be no better then a common Whore : For if you should your Pipkin crack , your Credit will away ; And must curse the hour so rudely spent , When hey boys in went they . When once your Reputation's lost , 'twere better you then were dead ; Then for to say there goes a Maid , that has lost her Maidenhead : Therefore in time consider well on't , lest you should go astray ; When 'tis too late you may repent , That hey boys in went they . FINIS . Printed for J. Jordan , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-street . Animadversions on the Lady Marquis : OR , Properties Display'd . View here the abstract of the World's great Frame , Whose worth for ever Morraliz'd a Name ; Whose noble gen'rous parts , I dare to say , Will get Renown , the clean contrary way : Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . THe Lady Marquis and her gang , are most in favour seen ; With Coach and Men on them to tend , as if she were a Queen : But if she be , 'tis of the Sluts , for all her fine Array , Whose Honour reaches to the Skies , But the clear contrary way . They have their choice of Music sweet , which does their senses Charm ; And there they fit like Saints to be , as if they knew no harm : But they can fit them to a Hair , by night or else by day ; And so they think to get Renown , But the clear contrary way . This House to them is like a Change , where all things may be had ; A Glass of Wine to cheer their heart , 'twill make their senses glad : There is a Proverb , If you Dance , the Fiddler you must pay ; At length it may their Fortune raise , But the clear contrary way . This not his Music nor his Wine , that makes them for to run , There is something else within the case , which is needful to be done : The which i'le give you leave to judge , in truth to you it may [ ; ] There's few returns a Ma [ id again , ] When hey boys down go they . There is and ill report abroad , which never yet was before ; What female Sex goes there are looked upon to be no better then a common Whore : For if you should your Pipkin crack , your Credit will away ; And must curse the hour so rudely spent , When hey boys in went they . When once your Reputation's lost , 'twere better you then were dead ; Then for to say there goes a Maid , that has lost her Maidenhead : Therefore in time consider well on't , lest you should go astray ; When 'tis too late you may repent , That hey boys in went they . FINIS . Printed for J. Jordan , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-street . 