The Wanton WIFE of BATH . Tune of , The Flying Fame , etc IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , As Chaucer he does write , Who did in Pleasure spend her Days , In many a found Delight . Upon a Time soar sick she was , And at the length did die ; Her Soul came to Elizium's Gate , And knock'd most mightily . Then Adam came unto the Gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he ; I am the Wife of Bath , she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner , Adam said , And here no Place shall have ; Alas ! for you , good Sir , she said , Now gip you donting Knave . I will come in , in Spite , she said , Of all such Churls as thee ; Thou art the Causer of our Woe , Our Pain and Misery . Thou first broke the Commandment , To pleasure thine own Wife : When Adam herd her tell this Tale , He ran away for Life . Then down came Jacob to the Gate , And bids her pack to Hell ; Thou false Deceiver , why ? quoth she , Thou should'st be there as well . For thou deceivest thy Father dear , And thy own Brother too : Away went Jacob presently , And made no more ado . She knocks again with Might and Main , And Lot he chides her straight ; Why then , quoth she , thou drunken Ass , Who bids thee here to wait . With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , On them two Bastards god , And thus most tauntingly she chaste , Against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh there , quoth Judith then With such shrill sounding Notes : Alas ! fine Minks , we come not here , Quoth she , for cutting Throats . Good lack how Judith blush'd for Shame , When she herd her say so : King David hearing her say that , He to the Gate did go . Quoth he , Who does knock there so loud , And makes all this Strife : You were more kind , good Sir , she said , Unto Uriah's Wife . And when thou causeth thy Servants , In Battle to be slave ; Thou causeth them more Strife than I , Who would come in so fain . The Woman's mad said Solomon , That thus does taunt a King ; Not half so bad as you she said , I know in many a Thing . Thou hadst seven hundred Wives at once , For whom thou didst provide ; For all this , three hundred Whores Thou did maintain beside . And those made thee forget thy God , And worship Stocks and Stones ; Beside the Charge they put thee to , In breeding of young Bones . Hadst thou not been out of thy Wits , Thou wouldst not have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much , How you this Place have enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , So vile a Scold as this : Thou art not without Faults , quoth she , Thou'st likewise done amiss . I think quoth Thomas , Woman's Tongues , Of Aspen Leaves are made ; Thou unbelieving Saint , quoth she , All is not true that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , She came unto the Gate : Quoth she , Good Woman , you must think , Upon your former State . No Sinner enters in this Place , Quoth Mary Magdalen , 'Tis well for you then , fair Mistress , She answered her again . You for your Honesty , quoth she , Should once been ston'd to Death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , And writ it on the Earth . It was your Occupation , You are become divine : I hope my Soul in Christ's Passion , Shall be as safe as thine . Then rose up the good Apostle Paul , Unto this Wife he said , Except thou shake thy Sins away , Thou here shalt be deny'd . Remember , Paul , what thou hast done , All through a wild Desire , How thou didst persecute the Church , With Wrath as hight as Fire . Then up rose Peter at the last , And to the Gate he hies ; Sinner , quoth he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest us with Cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , For Mercy may be wone , I never did deny the Faith , As thou thyself has done . When as our Saviour then herd this With Heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful Soul Who trembles at his sighed . Of him for Mercy she did cry , Quoth he thou hast refused My proffer'd Grace , and Mercy both , And much my Name abused . Soar have I sinned , Oh Lord ! said she , And spent my Time in vain ; But bring me like a wander'd Sheep , Unto thy Flock again . O Lord my God , I will forsake , My former wicked Vice : The Thief , when he had said these Words , Pass'd into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , Says Christ , were known to thee ; But of the same no Notice took , As I did plainly see . Do thou forgive me now , quoth she , Most lewdly I did live ; But yet the loving Father did His wicked Son forgive . I will forgive thy Soul , said he , For thy repenting Cry , So come enter into my Rest , For I'll not thee deny . The Wanton WIFE of BATH . Tune of , The Flying Fame , etc IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , As Chaucer he does write , Who did in Pleasure spend her Days , In many a found Delight . Upon a Time soar sick she was , And at the length did die ; Her Soul came to Elizium's Gate , And knock'd most mightily . Then Adam came unto the Gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he ; I am the Wife of Bath , she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner , Adam said , And here no Place shall have ; Alas ! for you , good Sir , she said , Now gip you donting Knave . I will come in , in Spite , she said , Of all such Churls as thee ; Thou art the Causer of our Woe , Our Pain and Misery . Thou first broke the Commandment , To pleasure thine own Wife : When Adam herd her tell this Tale , He ran away for Life . Then down came Jacob to the Gate , And bids her pack to Hell ; Thou false Deceiver , why ? quoth she , Thou should'st be there as well . For thou deceivest thy Father dear , And thy own Brother too : Away went Jacob presently , And made no more ado . She knocks again with Might and Main , And Lot he chides her straight ; Why then , quoth she , thou drunken Ass , Who bids thee here to wait . With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , On them two Bastards god , And thus most tauntingly she chaste , Against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh there , quoth Judith then With such shrill sounding Notes : Alas ! fine Minks , we come not here , Quoth she , for cutting Throats . Good lack how Judith blush'd for Shame , When she herd her say so : King David hearing her say that , He to the Gate did go . Quoth he , Who does knock there so loud , And makes all this Strife : You were more kind , good Sir , she said , Unto Uriah's Wife . And when thou causeth thy Servants , In Battle to be slave ; Thou causeth them more Strife than I , Who would come in so fain . The Woman's mad said Solomon , That thus does taunt a King ; Not half so bad as you she said , I know in many a Thing . Thou hadst seven hundred Wives at once , For whom thou didst provide ; For all this , three hundred Whores Thou did maintain beside . And those made thee forget thy God , And worship Stocks and Stones ; Beside the Charge they put thee to , In breeding of young Bones . Hadst thou not been out of thy Wits , Thou wouldst not have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much , How you this Place have enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , So vile a Scold as this : Thou art not without Faults , quoth she , Thou'st likewise done amiss . I think quoth Thomas , Woman's Tongues , Of Aspen Leaves are made ; Thou unbelieving Saint , quoth she , All is not true that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , She came unto the Gate : Quoth she , Good Woman , you must think , Upon your former State . No Sinner enters in this Place , Quoth Mary Magdalen , 'Tis well for you then , fair Mistress , She answered her again . You for your Honesty , quoth she , Should once been ston'd to Death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , And writ it on the Earth . It was your Occupation , You are become divine : I hope my Soul in Christ's Passion , Shall be as safe as thine . Then rose up the good Apostle Paul , Unto this Wife he said , Except thou shake thy Sins away , Thou here shalt be deny'd . Remember , Paul , what thou hast done , All through a wild Desire , How thou didst persecute the Church , With Wrath as hight as Fire . Then up rose Peter at the last , And to the Gate he hies ; Sinner , quoth he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest us with Cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , For Mercy may be wone , I never did deny the Faith , As thou thyself has done . When as our Saviour then herd this With Heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful Soul Who trembles at his sighed . Of him for Mercy she did cry , Quoth he thou hast refused My proffer'd Grace , and Mercy both , And much my Name abused . Soar have I sinned , Oh Lord ! said she , And spent my Time in vain ; But bring me like a wander'd Sheep , Unto thy Flock again . O Lord my God , I will forsake , My former wicked Vice : The Thief , when he had said these Words , Pass'd into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , Says Christ , were known to thee ; But of the same no Notice took , As I did plainly see . Do thou forgive me now , quoth she , Most lewdly I did live ; But yet the loving Father did His wicked Son forgive . I will forgive thy Soul , said he , For thy repenting Cry , So come enter into my Rest , For I'll not thee deny . 