JOHNNY ARMSTRONG's last Goodnight , Declaring how he and his Eight-score Men , fought a bloody Battle with the Scottish King at Edingburgh . IS there never a man in all Scotland , From the highest estate , to the lowest degree , That can show himself before the King , Scotland is so full of treachery ? Yes , there is a man in Westmoreland , Johnny Armstrong they do him call , He hath no lands , nor rends coming in , Yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has horse and harness for them all , With goodly steeds that are milk white , With their goodly belts about their necks , With hats and feathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , And with his own hand so tenderly , And hath sent it unto Johnny Armstrong , To come and speak with him speedily ; When Johnny look'd the letter upon , Good faith , he look'd as blithe as a bird on a tree , I never was before a King in my life , My father , grandfather , nor none of us three . But seeing we must go before the King , Lord , we will go most gallantly . You shall every one have a velvet coat , Laid down with golden laces three , And you shall have every one a scarlet cloak , Laid down with silver lace fine , With your golden belts about your necks , With hat's and feathers all alike . But when Johnny went from Guiltnock-Hall , The wind blew hard , and full fast it did rain , Now fare thee well thou Guiltnock-Hall , I fear I shall never see thee again . Now Johnny is to Edinburgh gone , With his eightscore men so gallantly , And every one of them on a milk white steed , Their swords and bucklers hanging at their knees , But when Johnny came the King before , With his eightscore men so gallant to see , The King mov'd his bonnet to him , He thought he had been a King as well as he , O! pardon , O! pardon , my sovereign liege , A pardon for my eightscore men and me ; For my name it is Johnny Armstrong , A subject of yours , my liege said he . Away with thee , thou false traitor , No pardon I'll grant to thee , But to morrow morning by eight of the clock , I will hang up thy eightscore men and thee . Then Johnny look'd over his left shoulder ; And to his merry men , thus said he , I have ask'd grace of a graceless face , No pardon there is for you or me . Then Johnny pull'd out his nut brown sword , And it was made of metal free , Had not the king mov'd his foot as he did , Johnny had taken his head from his fair body . Come follow me , my merry men all , We will scorn one foot for to fly ; It shall ne'er be said we were hanged like dogs , We will fight it out manfully Then they fought on like champions bold , For their hearts were sturdy , stout , and free , 'Till they had kill'd all the King's good guards ; There were none left , but two or three . But then rose up all Edinburgh ; They rose up by thousands three , A cowardly scot came Johnny behind , And run him through the fair body . Said Johnny fight on my merry men all , I am a little wounded but am not slave , I will lay me down to bleed a while , And rise and fight with you again . Then they fought on like mad men all , 'Till many a man lay dead on the plain ; For they were resolv'd before they would yield , Every man should there be slave So there thy fought on most courageously 'Till most of them lay dead there , and slave . But little Musgrave , that was his foot page , With his bonny grizzel god away unta'en . But when he came to Guiltnock Hall , The lady spy'd him presently , What news ? what news ? thou little foot page , What news from thy master and his company ? My news is bad Lady he said , Which I do bring , as you may see : My master , Johnny Armstrong , is slave , And all his gallant company But thou art welcome home my bonny Grizzel , Full oft has thou been fed with corn and hay , But now thou shalt be fed with bred and wine , Thy sides shall be spurr'd no more I say . O then bespoke his little son , As he sat on his nurse's knee , If ever I come to be a man , My father's death reveng'd shall be . JOHNNY ARMSTRONG's last Goodnight , Declaring how he and his Eight-score Men , fought a bloody Battle with the Scottish King at Edingburgh . IS there never a man in all Scotland , From the highest estate , to the lowest degree , That can show himself before the King , Scotland is so full of treachery ? Yes , there is a man in Westmoreland , Johnny Armstrong they do him call , He hath no lands , nor rends coming in , Yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has horse and harness for them all , With goodly steeds that are milk white , With their goodly belts about their necks , With hats and feathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , And with his own hand so tenderly , And hath sent it unto Johnny Armstrong , To come and speak with him speedily ; When Johnny look'd the letter upon , Good faith , he look'd as blithe as a bird on a tree , I never was before a King in my life , My father , grandfather , nor none of us three . But seeing we must go before the King , Lord , we will go most gallantly . You shall every one have a velvet coat , Laid down with golden laces three , And you shall have every one a scarlet cloak , Laid down with silver lace fine , With your golden belts about your necks , With hat's and feathers all alike . But when Johnny went from Guiltnock-Hall , The wind blew hard , and full fast it did rain , Now fare thee well thou Guiltnock-Hall , I fear I shall never see thee again . Now Johnny is to Edinburgh gone , With his eightscore men so gallantly , And every one of them on a milk white steed , Their swords and bucklers hanging at their knees , But when Johnny came the King before , With his eightscore men so gallant to see , The King mov'd his bonnet to him , He thought he had been a King as well as he , O! pardon , O! pardon , my sovereign liege , A pardon for my eightscore men and me ; For my name it is Johnny Armstrong , A subject of yours , my liege said he . Away with thee , thou false traitor , No pardon I'll grant to thee , But to morrow morning by eight of the clock , I will hang up thy eightscore men and thee . Then Johnny look'd over his left shoulder ; And to his merry men , thus said he , I have ask'd grace of a graceless face , No pardon there is for you or me . Then Johnny pull'd out his nut brown sword , And it was made of metal free , Had not the king mov'd his foot as he did , Johnny had taken his head from his fair body . Come follow me , my merry men all , We will scorn one foot for to fly ; It shall ne'er be said we were hanged like dogs , We will fight it out manfully Then they fought on like champions bold , For their hearts were sturdy , stout , and free , 'Till they had kill'd all the King's good guards ; There were none left , but two or three . But then rose up all Edinburgh ; They rose up by thousands three , A cowardly scot came Johnny behind , And run him through the fair body . Said Johnny fight on my merry men all , I am a little wounded but am not slave , I will lay me down to bleed a while , And rise and fight with you again . Then they fought on like mad men all , 'Till many a man lay dead on the plain ; For they were resolv'd before they would yield , Every man should there be slave So there thy fought on most courageously 'Till most of them lay dead there , and slave . But little Musgrave , that was his foot page , With his bonny grizzel god away unta'en . But when he came to Guiltnock Hall , The lady spy'd him presently , What news ? what news ? thou little foot page , What news from thy master and his company ? My news is bad Lady he said , Which I do bring , as you may see : My master , Johnny Armstrong , is slave , And all his gallant company But thou art welcome home my bonny Grizzel , Full oft has thou been fed with corn and hay , But now thou shalt be fed with bred and wine , Thy sides shall be spurr'd no more I say . O then bespoke his little son , As he sat on his nurse's knee , If ever I come to be a man , My father's death reveng'd shall be . 