A pleasant New BALLAD of TOBIAS : Wherein is showed what wondered Things happen'd to him in his Youth ; and how he wedded young Damsel that had seven Husbands , but never enjoyed their Company , being all slave by and evil Spirit . IN Nineve old Toby dwelled , And aged Man , and blind was he , And much Affliction he had felt , Which brought him into Misery . He had by Anne his true Wife , One only Son and eke no more , Which was the Comfort of his Life , And he by him did set great Store . He brought him up so virtuously , In true Obedience and Awe , That every Day he did apply To fear the Lord and keep his Law . Upon a Time it came to pass , He call'd his Son to him with Speed , And thus to him these Words did frame , My Son , quoth he , thou know'st my Need. Thou must unto Gabeal go , To Raguel's House in Media Land , For I did lend him long ago , Ten Talents on his only Bond. My Father dear , Tobias said , At your Command straight will I go , How shall I get the Money paid , Seeing the Man I ne'er did know . Take then the Writings here with thee , Which are sufficient to be seen , And get a Guide to go with thee , Since thou the Way hast never been . A Guide Tobias soon had god , And Angel in the Shape of Man ; Which Things he did not know , God wot , The Lord had it appointed then . Tobias with his blessed Guide , Went on his Journey thus with Speed , Until they came to Tigris Side . At the fair Flood they did abide . Tobias would go wash him there , By Reason of the Summer's Heat , A mighty Fish put him in Fear , Which leap'd out of the Waters deep . Take up the Fish , the Angel said , And keep the Liver , Heart and Gall , To do the same be not afraid , Great Cures there shall be done withal . When this was done away they went , And coming near their Journey's End , We'll lodge to Night , the Angel said , With Raguel thy Father's Friend . He hath a Daughter fair of Face , And also of a virtuous Life . And when we come unto that Place , I'll speak that she may be thy Wife . Why , Azarias then , quoth he , ( For so they did the Angel call ) I wish she be no Wife for me , Swift Death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven Men to her hath married been , Which in her Love did take Delight , When in her Bedchamber they'd been , They did not live out Half the Night . A wicked Spirit loves her so , He will not suffer any Man , With her into the Bed to go . But works his Death do all they can . The Angel said , good Courage take , For so it shall not be with thee , For such Perfumes I will thee make , The wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguel's Home away they run , Where Sarah met them fair and bright , And after Salutations done , She brought them to her Father's Sighed Great Cheer there was , and down they set , And all for young Tobias' Sake , And after long and pleasant Chat , Betwixt them two a Match they make . By Moses Law they married were , The Bride's Chamber prepar'd likewise , But when Tobias came in there , The Tears ran down from Sarah's Eyes . A Pan of Coals he brought with him , The Fish's Heart and Liver there , Within the Fire he did cast in , Which cast a Flavour every where . And by that sweet and pleasant Smell , The wicked Spirit was displac'd , Within that Room he could not dwell , Whence out away he went in Haste . In Bed they laid the beauteous Bride , Their Chamber-door was shut therefore , Young Toby lying by her Side , Whom they did think to see no more . And therefore Raguel in the Night , For him before had made a Grave , And to his Wife he wept and said , There is no Means his Life to save . One of the Maidens send , quoth he , To see how all the Matter stands , And if so be , that he be dead , He shall be buried by my Hands . This Maiden joyful News did bring , Tobias is alive , quoth she ; When Raguel herd of this Thing , He did rejoice exceedingly . For Joy he made a solemn Feast , The Bridal fourteen Days they kept , For there came many a friendly Guest ; In Sorrow now no more they slept . Azarias went straightway , Unto a Feast which Raguel bought , Rejoicing at his Marriage-Day , And paid the Money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his Wife , Did all the while in Sorrow dwell ; They thought their Son had lost his Life , And nothing could their Grief expel . His aged Mother every Day Did watch upon the Highway Side , And for his Farewell oft did pray , No Meat nor Drink she could abide , But when the Wedding ended was , Young Toby with his lovely Bride . To Nineve did homeward pass , With Goods and Chattles by his Side . But Toby and his Angel bright , Before his Wife made Haste to go , For to prepare all Things aright , His lovely Bride to welcome Home . His Mother watching in the Way , Full soon espy'd her tender Son , Rejoicing at that happy Day , She told her Husband he was come . Whereat old Toby tumbled out , For he was blind and could not see , Young Toby with the Fish's Gall , Rubb'd both his Eyes immediately , Whereat the Whiteness of his Eyes , Incontinent did fallen out quite , So that before he did arise , He had again his perfect Sighed . Great Joy there was , and down they sat , Young Toby told his Father dear , Who went to meet his lovely Bride , With Joy and Mirth that was sincere . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold JOHN WHITE . A pleasant New BALLAD of TOBIAS : Wherein is showed what wondered Things happen'd to him in his Youth ; and how he wedded young Damsel that had seven Husbands , but never enjoyed their Company , being all slave by and evil Spirit . IN Nineve old Toby dwelled , And aged Man , and blind was he , And much Affliction he had felt , Which brought him into Misery . He had by Anne his true Wife , One only Son and eke no more , Which was the Comfort of his Life , And he by him did set great Store . He brought him up so virtuously , In true Obedience and Awe , That every Day he did apply To fear the Lord and keep his Law . Upon a Time it came to pass , He call'd his Son to him with Speed , And thus to him these Words did frame , My Son , quoth he , thou know'st my Need. Thou must unto Gabeal go , To Raguel's House in Media Land , For I did lend him long ago , Ten Talents on his only Bond. My Father dear , Tobias said , At your Command straight will I go , How shall I get the Money paid , Seeing the Man I ne'er did know . Take then the Writings here with thee , Which are sufficient to be seen , And get a Guide to go with thee , Since thou the Way hast never been . A Guide Tobias soon had god , And Angel in the Shape of Man ; Which Things he did not know , God wot , The Lord had it appointed then . Tobias with his blessed Guide , Went on his Journey thus with Speed , Until they came to Tigris Side . At the fair Flood they did abide . Tobias would go wash him there , By Reason of the Summer's Heat , A mighty Fish put him in Fear , Which leap'd out of the Waters deep . Take up the Fish , the Angel said , And keep the Liver , Heart and Gall , To do the same be not afraid , Great Cures there shall be done withal . When this was done away they went , And coming near their Journey's End , We'll lodge to Night , the Angel said , With Raguel thy Father's Friend . He hath a Daughter fair of Face , And also of a virtuous Life . And when we come unto that Place , I'll speak that she may be thy Wife . Why , Azarias then , quoth he , ( For so they did the Angel call ) I wish she be no Wife for me , Swift Death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven Men to her hath married been , Which in her Love did take Delight , When in her Bedchamber they'd been , They did not live out Half the Night . A wicked Spirit loves her so , He will not suffer any Man , With her into the Bed to go . But works his Death do all they can . The Angel said , good Courage take , For so it shall not be with thee , For such Perfumes I will thee make , The wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguel's Home away they run , Where Sarah met them fair and bright , And after Salutations done , She brought them to her Father's Sighed Great Cheer there was , and down they set , And all for young Tobias' Sake , And after long and pleasant Chat , Betwixt them two a Match they make . By Moses Law they married were , The Bride's Chamber prepar'd likewise , But when Tobias came in there , The Tears ran down from Sarah's Eyes . A Pan of Coals he brought with him , The Fish's Heart and Liver there , Within the Fire he did cast in , Which cast a Flavour every where . And by that sweet and pleasant Smell , The wicked Spirit was displac'd , Within that Room he could not dwell , Whence out away he went in Haste . In Bed they laid the beauteous Bride , Their Chamber-door was shut therefore , Young Toby lying by her Side , Whom they did think to see no more . And therefore Raguel in the Night , For him before had made a Grave , And to his Wife he wept and said , There is no Means his Life to save . One of the Maidens send , quoth he , To see how all the Matter stands , And if so be , that he be dead , He shall be buried by my Hands . This Maiden joyful News did bring , Tobias is alive , quoth she ; When Raguel herd of this Thing , He did rejoice exceedingly . For Joy he made a solemn Feast , The Bridal fourteen Days they kept , For there came many a friendly Guest ; In Sorrow now no more they slept . Azarias went straightway , Unto a Feast which Raguel bought , Rejoicing at his Marriage-Day , And paid the Money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his Wife , Did all the while in Sorrow dwell ; They thought their Son had lost his Life , And nothing could their Grief expel . His aged Mother every Day Did watch upon the Highway Side , And for his Farewell oft did pray , No Meat nor Drink she could abide , But when the Wedding ended was , Young Toby with his lovely Bride . To Nineve did homeward pass , With Goods and Chattles by his Side . But Toby and his Angel bright , Before his Wife made Haste to go , For to prepare all Things aright , His lovely Bride to welcome Home . His Mother watching in the Way , Full soon espy'd her tender Son , Rejoicing at that happy Day , She told her Husband he was come . Whereat old Toby tumbled out , For he was blind and could not see , Young Toby with the Fish's Gall , Rubb'd both his Eyes immediately , Whereat the Whiteness of his Eyes , Incontinent did fallen out quite , So that before he did arise , He had again his perfect Sighed . Great Joy there was , and down they sat , Young Toby told his Father dear , Who went to meet his lovely Bride , With Joy and Mirth that was sincere . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold JOHN WHITE . 