The GOSPORT Tragedy : Or , The Perjured Ship-Carpenter . Tune , PEGGY's gone over Sea , IN Gosport of late there a damsel did dwell , For wit and for beauty did many excel ; A young man did court her to be his dear , And he by his trade was a ship-carpenter . He said , Oh! dear Molly , if you will agree , And will consent to marry me ; My love you will ease me of sorrow and care , If you will but wed a ship-carpenter . With blushes more charming than roses in June . She answer'd sweet William , Towed I'm too young . Young men are so fickle I see very plain , If a maid is not coy they will her disdain . They flatter and swear their charms they adore , When gain'd their consent , they care for no more ; The handsomest creature that ever was born , When man has enjoy'd , he will hold in scorn . My charming Molly what makes you say so ? Thy beauty's the haven to which I would go . So into that country I chance for to steer There will cast anchor , and stay with my dear I ne'er shall be cloy'd with the charm of me love , My love is as true as the turtledove ; And all I crave is to wed with my dear , And when thou art mine no danger I fear . The life of a virgin , sweet William , I prize , For marriage brings sorrows and troubles likewise ; I am loath to venture , and therefore forbear For I will not wed a ship-carpenter . For in the time of war to the sea you must go , And leave wife and children in sorrow and woe ? The seas they are perilous , therefore forbear , For I will not wed with a ship-carpenter . But yet all in vain , she his suit did deny , Though he still did Press her to make her comply ; At length with his cunning he did her betray , And to lewd desire he led her away . But when with child this young woman were , The tidings she instantly sent to her dear ; And by the good Heaven he swore to be true . Saying , I will wed no other but you . They passed on till at length we hear , The king wants sailors , to see he repairs , Which grieved the damsel unto the heart . To think she so soon with a lover must part . She said , my dear William 'ere thou go'st to sea , Remember the vows that thou madest to me ; But if you forsake me I never shall rest , Oh! why dost thou leave me with sorrow oppressed ? Then with kind embraces to her he did say , I'll wed thee , dear Molly , 'ere I go away ; And if tomorrow to me thou dost come , A license I'll buy , and it shall be done . So with kind embraces he parted that night , She went to meet him in the morning light ; He said dear charmer thou must go with me , Before we are wedded , a friend to see . He led her through valleys and groves so deep , At length this maiden began for to weep ; Saying , William , I fancy thou lead'st me astray , On purpose my innocent life to betray . He said that is true , and none you can save , For I all this night have been digging a grave ; Poor innocent soul , when she herd him say so , Her eyes like a fountain began for to flow . O perjur'd creature , the worst of all men , Heavens reward thee when I'm dead and gone : Oh pity the infant , and spare my life , Let me go distress'd if I'm not thy wife . Her hands white as lilies in sorrow she wrung , Beseeching for mercy , saying , what have I done To you my dear William , what makes you severe ? For to murder one that loves you so dear . And said here's no time disputing to stand , And instantly taking the knife in his hand ; He pierced her body till the blood it did flow , Then into the grave her body did throw . He cover'd her body , then home he did run , Leaving none but birds her death to mourn ; On board the Bedford he enter'd straightway , Which lay at Portsmouth out bound for the sea . For carpenter's mate he was enter'd we hear , Fitted for his voyage away he did steer ; But as in his cabin one night he did lie , The voice of his sweetheart he herd to cry . O perjur'd villain , awake now and hear , The voice of your love , that lov'd you so dear ; This ship out of Portsmouth never shall go , Till I am revenged for this overthrow . She afterwards vanished with shrieks and cries , Flashes of lightning did dart from her eyes ; Which put the ships crew into great fear , None saw the ghost , but the voice they did hear . Charles Stuart , a man of courage so bold , One night was going into the Hold : A beautiful creature to him did appear , And she in her arms had a daughter most fair . The charms of this so glorious a face , Being merry in drink , he goes to embrace : But to his surprise it vanish'd away , So he went to the captain without more delay . And told him the story , which when he did hear , The captain said , some of my men I do fear Have done some murder , and if it be so , Our ship in great danger to the sea must go . One at a time then his merry men all , Into his cabin he did strait call ; And said , my lads the news I do hear Does much surprise me with sorrow and fear This ghost which appear'd in the dead of the night Which all my seaman so sadly did fright ; I fear has been wrong'd by some of my crew , And therefore the person I fain would know . Then William affrighted did tremble with fear And began by the powers above to swear ; He nothing at all of the matter did know , But as from the captain he went to go . Unto his surprise his true love did see , With that he immediately fell on his knee : And said , here's my true love , where shall I run ? O save me , or else I am surely undone . Now he the murder confessed out of hand , And said , before me my Molly does stand , Sweet injur'd ghost thy pardon I crave . And soon I will seek thee in the silent grave . No one but this wretch did see this sad sighed , Then raving distracted he dy'd in the nigh As soon as her parents these tidings did hear They sought for the body of their daughter dear , Near a place call'd Southampton in a valley deep The body was found , while many did weep At the fallen of the damsel and her daughter dear , In Gosport church they bury'd her there . I hope that this may be a warning to all , Young men how innocent maids they enthral : Young men be constant and true to your love , Then a blessing indeed will attend you above . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . The GOSPORT Tragedy : Or , The Perjured Ship-Carpenter . Tune , PEGGY's gone over Sea , IN Gosport of late there a damsel did dwell , For wit and for beauty did many excel ; A young man did court her to be his dear , And he by his trade was a ship-carpenter . He said , Oh! dear Molly , if you will agree , And will consent to marry me ; My love you will ease me of sorrow and care , If you will but wed a ship-carpenter . With blushes more charming than roses in June . She answer'd sweet William , Towed I'm too young . Young men are so fickle I see very plain , If a maid is not coy they will her disdain . They flatter and swear their charms they adore , When gain'd their consent , they care for no more ; The handsomest creature that ever was born , When man has enjoy'd , he will hold in scorn . My charming Molly what makes you say so ? Thy beauty's the haven to which I would go . So into that country I chance for to steer There will cast anchor , and stay with my dear I ne'er shall be cloy'd with the charm of me love , My love is as true as the turtledove ; And all I crave is to wed with my dear , And when thou art mine no danger I fear . The life of a virgin , sweet William , I prize , For marriage brings sorrows and troubles likewise ; I am loath to venture , and therefore forbear For I will not wed a ship-carpenter . For in the time of war to the sea you must go , And leave wife and children in sorrow and woe ? The seas they are perilous , therefore forbear , For I will not wed with a ship-carpenter . But yet all in vain , she his suit did deny , Though he still did Press her to make her comply ; At length with his cunning he did her betray , And to lewd desire he led her away . But when with child this young woman were , The tidings she instantly sent to her dear ; And by the good Heaven he swore to be true . Saying , I will wed no other but you . They passed on till at length we hear , The king wants sailors , to see he repairs , Which grieved the damsel unto the heart . To think she so soon with a lover must part . She said , my dear William 'ere thou go'st to sea , Remember the vows that thou madest to me ; But if you forsake me I never shall rest , Oh! why dost thou leave me with sorrow oppressed ? Then with kind embraces to her he did say , I'll wed thee , dear Molly , 'ere I go away ; And if tomorrow to me thou dost come , A license I'll buy , and it shall be done . So with kind embraces he parted that night , She went to meet him in the morning light ; He said dear charmer thou must go with me , Before we are wedded , a friend to see . He led her through valleys and groves so deep , At length this maiden began for to weep ; Saying , William , I fancy thou lead'st me astray , On purpose my innocent life to betray . He said that is true , and none you can save , For I all this night have been digging a grave ; Poor innocent soul , when she herd him say so , Her eyes like a fountain began for to flow . O perjur'd creature , the worst of all men , Heavens reward thee when I'm dead and gone : Oh pity the infant , and spare my life , Let me go distress'd if I'm not thy wife . Her hands white as lilies in sorrow she wrung , Beseeching for mercy , saying , what have I done To you my dear William , what makes you severe ? For to murder one that loves you so dear . And said here's no time disputing to stand , And instantly taking the knife in his hand ; He pierced her body till the blood it did flow , Then into the grave her body did throw . He cover'd her body , then home he did run , Leaving none but birds her death to mourn ; On board the Bedford he enter'd straightway , Which lay at Portsmouth out bound for the sea . For carpenter's mate he was enter'd we hear , Fitted for his voyage away he did steer ; But as in his cabin one night he did lie , The voice of his sweetheart he herd to cry . O perjur'd villain , awake now and hear , The voice of your love , that lov'd you so dear ; This ship out of Portsmouth never shall go , Till I am revenged for this overthrow . She afterwards vanished with shrieks and cries , Flashes of lightning did dart from her eyes ; Which put the ships crew into great fear , None saw the ghost , but the voice they did hear . Charles Stuart , a man of courage so bold , One night was going into the Hold : A beautiful creature to him did appear , And she in her arms had a daughter most fair . The charms of this so glorious a face , Being merry in drink , he goes to embrace : But to his surprise it vanish'd away , So he went to the captain without more delay . And told him the story , which when he did hear , The captain said , some of my men I do fear Have done some murder , and if it be so , Our ship in great danger to the sea must go . One at a time then his merry men all , Into his cabin he did strait call ; And said , my lads the news I do hear Does much surprise me with sorrow and fear This ghost which appear'd in the dead of the night Which all my seaman so sadly did fright ; I fear has been wrong'd by some of my crew , And therefore the person I fain would know . Then William affrighted did tremble with fear And began by the powers above to swear ; He nothing at all of the matter did know , But as from the captain he went to go . Unto his surprise his true love did see , With that he immediately fell on his knee : And said , here's my true love , where shall I run ? O save me , or else I am surely undone . Now he the murder confessed out of hand , And said , before me my Molly does stand , Sweet injur'd ghost thy pardon I crave . And soon I will seek thee in the silent grave . No one but this wretch did see this sad sighed , Then raving distracted he dy'd in the nigh As soon as her parents these tidings did hear They sought for the body of their daughter dear , Near a place call'd Southampton in a valley deep The body was found , while many did weep At the fallen of the damsel and her daughter dear , In Gosport church they bury'd her there . I hope that this may be a warning to all , Young men how innocent maids they enthral : Young men be constant and true to your love , Then a blessing indeed will attend you above . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . 