The LIFE and DEATH of the Famous THOMAS STUKELY , And English Gallant in the Time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended his Life in a Bat - tle of three Kings of Barbary . Tune of , King Henry's going to Bulogne . IN the West of England , Born there was I understand , A famous Gallant was he in his Days ; By Birth , a wealthy Clothier's Son , Deeds of Wonders he hath done , To purchase him long and lasting Praise . If I should tell this Story , Pride was all his Glory , And Lusty Stukely , he was call'd in Cour He serv'd a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the Best , Maintaining of himself in gallant Sort. Being thus esteemed , And everywhere well deemed , He gain'd the Favour of a London Dame , Daughter to and Alderman , Curtis she was called then ; To whom a Suitor gallantly he came . When she his Person 'spied , He could not be denied , So brave a Gentleman he was to see ; She was quickly made his Wife , In weal or woe to led her Life , Her Father willing , thereto did agree . Thus in State and Pleasure , Full many Days they measure , Till cruel Death with his regardless Spite , Boar old Curtis to the Grave , A thing that Stukely wish'd to have , That he might revel all in Gold so bright . He was no sooner tombed , But Stukley he presumed To spend one hundred Pound a Day in waste : The greatest Gallants in the Land , Had Stukely's Purse at their command , Thus merrily the Time away he passed . Taverns and Ordinaries , Were his chiefest Braveries , Golden Angels there flew up and down ; Riots were his best Delight , With stately feasting Day and Night , In Court and City thus he wone renown . Thus wasting Lands and Living , By this lawless giving ; At length he sold the Pavements of the Yard , Which cover'd were with Blocks of Tin , Old Curtis left the same to him , Which he consumed lately as you've herd . Whereat his Wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved : Make much of me , dear Husband , she did say . I'll make much more of thee , said he , Than any one shall verily , I'll fell thy Clothes , and so I'll go my way . Cruelly thus hard hearted , Away from her he parted , And travel [ l ] ed into Italy with speed : There he flourish'd many a Day In his Silks and rich Array , And did the Pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the Lady's Pleasure , To give him Goods and Treasure , For to maintain him in great Pomp and Fame : At last came News assuredly , Of a fought Battle in Barbary , And he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble Gallant , Sold both Land and Talon To follow Stukely in his famous Figh Whereas three Kings in Person would Adventurously with Courage bold , Within this Battle show themselves in Fight . Stukely , and his Followers all Of the King of Portugal , Had Entertainment like to Gentlemen : The King affected Stukely so , That he his Secrets all did know , And boar his Royal Standard now and then . Upon this Day of Honour , Each Man did show his Banner , Morocco and the King of Barbary ; Portugal and all his Train , Bravely glittering on the Plain , And gave the Onset there most valiantly . The Cannons they rebounded , Thundering Guns resounded , Kill , kill , then was all the Soldiers cry : Mangled Men lay on the Ground , And with Blood the Earth was drown'd , The Sun likewise was darken'd in the Sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased , But Tokens of God's heavy Wrath did show : That he was angry at this War , He sent a fearful blazing Star , Whereby the Kings might their Misfortunes know . Bloody was the Slaughter , Or rather wilful Murder , Where sixscore Thousand fighting Men were slave ; Three Kings within this Battle dy'd , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , The like will never more be fought again . With woeful Arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding This bloody Sacrifice of Souls that Day : He sighing said , I woeful wight , Against my Conscience here do fight , And brought my Followers all unto decay . Being thus molested , And with Grief oppressed , Those brave Italians that did fell their Lands , With Stukely for to travel forth , And venture Life for little worth , Upon him all did lay their murdering Hands . Unto Death thus wounded , His Heart with Sorrow surrounded , And to them thus he made his heavy Moan : Thus have I left my Country dear , To be so vilely murder'd here ; E'en in this Place where I am not known . My Wife I have much wronged , Of what to her belonged , I vainly spent in idle Course of Life ; What I have had is passed I see , And brings nought but Grief to me , Therefore grant me Pardon gentle Wife . Life I see consumeth , And Death I see presumeth To change this Life of mine into a new : Yet this my greatest Comfort brings , I liv'd and dy'd in Love of Kings ; And so brave Stukely bids the World Adieu . Stukely's Life thus ended , Was after Death befriended , And like a Soldier buried gallantly ; Where now there stands upon the Grave , A stately Temple built brave , With golden Turrets piercing to the Sky . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . The LIFE and DEATH of the Famous THOMAS STUKELY , And English Gallant in the Time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended his Life in a Bat - tle of three Kings of Barbary . Tune of , King Henry's going to Bulogne . IN the West of England , Born there was I understand , A famous Gallant was he in his Days ; By Birth , a wealthy Clothier's Son , Deeds of Wonders he hath done , To purchase him long and lasting Praise . If I should tell this Story , Pride was all his Glory , And Lusty Stukely , he was call'd in Cour He serv'd a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the Best , Maintaining of himself in gallant Sort. Being thus esteemed , And everywhere well deemed , He gain'd the Favour of a London Dame , Daughter to and Alderman , Curtis she was called then ; To whom a Suitor gallantly he came . When she his Person 'spied , He could not be denied , So brave a Gentleman he was to see ; She was quickly made his Wife , In weal or woe to led her Life , Her Father willing , thereto did agree . Thus in State and Pleasure , Full many Days they measure , Till cruel Death with his regardless Spite , Boar old Curtis to the Grave , A thing that Stukely wish'd to have , That he might revel all in Gold so bright . He was no sooner tombed , But Stukley he presumed To spend one hundred Pound a Day in waste : The greatest Gallants in the Land , Had Stukely's Purse at their command , Thus merrily the Time away he passed . Taverns and Ordinaries , Were his chiefest Braveries , Golden Angels there flew up and down ; Riots were his best Delight , With stately feasting Day and Night , In Court and City thus he wone renown . Thus wasting Lands and Living , By this lawless giving ; At length he sold the Pavements of the Yard , Which cover'd were with Blocks of Tin , Old Curtis left the same to him , Which he consumed lately as you've herd . Whereat his Wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved : Make much of me , dear Husband , she did say . I'll make much more of thee , said he , Than any one shall verily , I'll fell thy Clothes , and so I'll go my way . Cruelly thus hard hearted , Away from her he parted , And travel [ l ] ed into Italy with speed : There he flourish'd many a Day In his Silks and rich Array , And did the Pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the Lady's Pleasure , To give him Goods and Treasure , For to maintain him in great Pomp and Fame : At last came News assuredly , Of a fought Battle in Barbary , And he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble Gallant , Sold both Land and Talon To follow Stukely in his famous Figh Whereas three Kings in Person would Adventurously with Courage bold , Within this Battle show themselves in Fight . Stukely , and his Followers all Of the King of Portugal , Had Entertainment like to Gentlemen : The King affected Stukely so , That he his Secrets all did know , And boar his Royal Standard now and then . Upon this Day of Honour , Each Man did show his Banner , Morocco and the King of Barbary ; Portugal and all his Train , Bravely glittering on the Plain , And gave the Onset there most valiantly . The Cannons they rebounded , Thundering Guns resounded , Kill , kill , then was all the Soldiers cry : Mangled Men lay on the Ground , And with Blood the Earth was drown'd , The Sun likewise was darken'd in the Sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased , But Tokens of God's heavy Wrath did show : That he was angry at this War , He sent a fearful blazing Star , Whereby the Kings might their Misfortunes know . Bloody was the Slaughter , Or rather wilful Murder , Where sixscore Thousand fighting Men were slave ; Three Kings within this Battle dy'd , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , The like will never more be fought again . With woeful Arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding This bloody Sacrifice of Souls that Day : He sighing said , I woeful wight , Against my Conscience here do fight , And brought my Followers all unto decay . Being thus molested , And with Grief oppressed , Those brave Italians that did fell their Lands , With Stukely for to travel forth , And venture Life for little worth , Upon him all did lay their murdering Hands . Unto Death thus wounded , His Heart with Sorrow surrounded , And to them thus he made his heavy Moan : Thus have I left my Country dear , To be so vilely murder'd here ; E'en in this Place where I am not known . My Wife I have much wronged , Of what to her belonged , I vainly spent in idle Course of Life ; What I have had is passed I see , And brings nought but Grief to me , Therefore grant me Pardon gentle Wife . Life I see consumeth , And Death I see presumeth To change this Life of mine into a new : Yet this my greatest Comfort brings , I liv'd and dy'd in Love of Kings ; And so brave Stukely bids the World Adieu . Stukely's Life thus ended , Was after Death befriended , And like a Soldier buried gallantly ; Where now there stands upon the Grave , A stately Temple built brave , With golden Turrets piercing to the Sky . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 