Lord Henry and Fair Katherine ; OR , THE Secret Discovered too Late . IN ancient times , in BRITAIN's Isle , Lord Henry was well known : No Knight in all the land more fam'd , Or more deserv'd renown . His thoughs on honour always run He ne'er could bow to love ; No nymph in all the land had charms His frozen heart to move . Among the nymphs where Kath' - rind came , The fairest face she shows : She was as bright as morning sun And sweeter than the Rose . Altho' she was of mean degree , She daily conquests gains ; For ne'er a youth who her be - held , Escap'd her powerful chains . But soon her eyes their lustre lost Her cheeks grew pale and wan , A pining seiz'd her lovely from , And cures were all in vain . The sickness was to all unknown That did the fair one waste ; Her time in sighs and floods of tears , And broken slumbers past . Once in a dream she cry'd aloud , Oh Henry ! I'm undone ! O cruel fate ! O wretched maid ! Thy love must ne'er be known . Such is the fate of womankind , They must the truth conceal ; I'll die ten thousand thousand death's , 'Ere I my love reveal . A tender friend that watch'd thee To Henry hie'd away , My Lord , says she , we've found the cause Of Kath'rine's quick decay . She in a dream the secret told , ( Till now no mortal knew ) Alas ! she now expiring lies , And die for love of you . The gen'rous Henry heart was touch'd , His heart began to flame : Ah poor unhappy maid , he cry'd , Yet I am not too blame . Ah! Kath'rine , too , too modest maid ! Thy love I never knew ; I'll ease your pain-And swift as wind , To her bedside he flew . Awake ! awake ! he fondly said , Awake ! awake ! my dear , If I had only guess'd your love , You had not shed a tear : 'Tis Henry calls , complain no more , Renew thy wonted charms ; I come to save thee from despair , And take thee to my arms . His words reviv'd the dying fair , She rais'd her drooping head , And gazing on the long-lov'd youth , She started from her bed ; Around his neck her arm she flung In ecstasy , and cry'd , Will you be kind ? will you indeed My love!-And so she dy'd . Lord Henry and Fair Katherine ; OR , THE Secret Discovered too Late . IN ancient times , in BRITAIN's Isle , Lord Henry was well known : No Knight in all the land more fam'd , Or more deserv'd renown . His thoughs on honour always run He ne'er could bow to love ; No nymph in all the land had charms His frozen heart to move . Among the nymphs where Kath' - rind came , The fairest face she shows : She was as bright as morning sun And sweeter than the Rose . Altho' she was of mean degree , She daily conquests gains ; For ne'er a youth who her be - held , Escap'd her powerful chains . But soon her eyes their lustre lost Her cheeks grew pale and wan , A pining seiz'd her lovely from , And cures were all in vain . The sickness was to all unknown That did the fair one waste ; Her time in sighs and floods of tears , And broken slumbers past . Once in a dream she cry'd aloud , Oh Henry ! I'm undone ! O cruel fate ! O wretched maid ! Thy love must ne'er be known . Such is the fate of womankind , They must the truth conceal ; I'll die ten thousand thousand death's , 'Ere I my love reveal . A tender friend that watch'd thee To Henry hie'd away , My Lord , says she , we've found the cause Of Kath'rine's quick decay . She in a dream the secret told , ( Till now no mortal knew ) Alas ! she now expiring lies , And die for love of you . The gen'rous Henry heart was touch'd , His heart began to flame : Ah poor unhappy maid , he cry'd , Yet I am not too blame . Ah! Kath'rine , too , too modest maid ! Thy love I never knew ; I'll ease your pain-And swift as wind , To her bedside he flew . Awake ! awake ! he fondly said , Awake ! awake ! my dear , If I had only guess'd your love , You had not shed a tear : 'Tis Henry calls , complain no more , Renew thy wonted charms ; I come to save thee from despair , And take thee to my arms . His words reviv'd the dying fair , She rais'd her drooping head , And gazing on the long-lov'd youth , She started from her bed ; Around his neck her arm she flung In ecstasy , and cry'd , Will you be kind ? will you indeed My love!-And so she dy'd . 