A Lamentable BALLAD of the Tragical End of A Gallant LORD and Virtuous LADY Together with the Untimely Death of their two Children , Wickedly performed by a heathenish and bloodthirsty BLACKAMOOR , their Servant . The like of which Cruelty and Murder was never before herd of . To the Tune of the Lady's Fallen . IN Rome a nobleman did wed A virgin of great fame , [ F ] airer creature never did Dame nature ever frame ; By whom he had two children fair , Whose beauty did excel . They were their parents only joy , They lov'd them both so well . The lord he lov'd to hunt the buck , The tiger , and the boar , And still , for swiftness , always took With him a blackamoor . Which blackamoor within the wood His lord he did offend , For which he did him then correct , In hope's he would amend . The day it grew unto and end , Then homeward he did haste , Where with his lady he did rest , Until the night was passed . Then in the morning he did rise , And did his servants call , A hunting he provides to go , And they were ready all . To cease his toil , the lady did Entreat him not to go . Alas ! good lady , then quoth he , Why art thou grieved so ? Content thyself , I will return With speed to thee again . Good father , quoth the little babes , With us here still remain . Farewell , dear children , I will go , A fine thing for to buy ; But they therewith nothing content Aloud began to cry . The mother takes them by the hand , Saying , Come , go with me Unto the highest tower , where Your father you shall see . The blackamoor perceiving now , Who then did stay behind , His lord to be a hunting gone , Began to call to mind , My master he did me correct , My fault not being great ; Now of his wife I'll be reveng'd , She shall not me entreat . The place was moated round about , The bridge he up did draw , The gates he bolted very fast , Of none he stood in awe . He up into the tower went , The lady being there , Who , when she saw his countenance grim , She strait began to fear . But now my trembling heart it quakes , To think what I must write , My senses all begin to fail , My soul it does affright ; Yet must I make and end of this , Which here I have begun , Which will make sad the hardest heart , Before that I have done . This wretch unto the lady went , And her with speed did will , His lust forthwith to satisfy , His revenge to fulfil . The lady she amazed was , To hear the villain speak . Alas ! quoth she , what shall I do , With grief my heart will break . With that he took her in his arms , She strait for help did cry : Content yourself , lady , he said , Your husband is not nigh . The bridge is drawn , the gates are shut , Therefore come lie with me , Or else I do protest and vow Thy butcher I will be . The crystal tears run down her face , Her children cry'd amain , And sought to help their mother dear , But all it was in vain . For that egregious filthy rogue , Her hands behind her bound , And then by force with all his might He threw her on the ground . With that she shrieks , her children cry'd , And such a noise did make , The town-folks hearing her lament , Did seek their parts to take , But all in vain , no way was found To help this lady's need , Who cry'd to them most piteously , Oh help , Oh help , with speed . Some run into the forest wide , Her lord home for to call , And they that stood still did lament This gallant lady's fallen . With speed her lord came posting home , He could not enter in . His lady's cries did pierce his heart , To call he did begin , Oh hold thy hand , thou savage Moor , To hurt heu do forbear . Or else be sure if I do live , Wild horses shall thee tear . With that the rogue ran to the wall , He having had his will , And brought one child unto the wall , His dearest blood to spill . The child seeing his father there , To him for help did call ; Oh father , help my mother dear , We shall be killed all . Then fell the lord upon his knees , And did the Moor entreat , To save the life of his poor child , Whose fear was then so great . But this vile wretch , the little child By both the heels did take , And dash'd his brains against the wall , While parents hearts did ache : That being done away he run , The other child to fetch , And pluck'd it from the mother's breast , Most like a cruel wretch . Within one hand a knife he brought , The child within the other , And holding it over the wall , Saying , Thus die shall thy mother , With that he cut the throat of it , Then to the fathdr he did call , To look how he the same did cu Then down the head did fallen . This done , he threw it down the wall , Into the mote so deep . Which made tee father wring his hands . And grievously to weep Then to the lady went this rogue , Who was near dead with fear . Yet this vile wretch most cruelly Did drag her by the hair , And drew her to the very wall , Which when her lord did see , Then presently he cried out , And fell upon his knee . Quoth he , if thou wilt save her life , Whom I do love so dear . I will forgive thee all is past , Though they concern me near . O save her life I thee beseech , Oh save her , I thee pray . And I will grant thee what thou wilt Demand of me this day . Well , quoth the Moor , I do regard The moan that thou dost make If thou wilt grant me what I ask , I'll save her for thy sake . O save her life , and then demand Of me what thing thou wilt . Cut of thy nose and not one drop Of her blood shall be spilled , With that the lord presently took A knife within his hand , And then his nose he quite cut off , In place where he did stand . Now I have bought me lady's life , Then to the Moor did call Then take her , quoth this wicked rogue And down he let her fallen . Which when her gallant lord did see , His senses all did fail : Yet many soughi to save his life , Yet nothing could prevail . When as the Moor did see him dead , Then did he laugh amain At them who for this gallant lord And lady did complain . Quoth he , I know you'll torture me . If that you can me get , But all your threats I do not fear Nor yet regard one whit . Wild horses will my body tear , I know it to be true ; But I'll prevent you of that pain . And down himself he threw . Too good a death far such a wretch ; A villain void of fear . And thus does end as sad a tale As ever man did hear . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . A Lamentable BALLAD of the Tragical End of A Gallant LORD and Virtuous LADY Together with the Untimely Death of their two Children , Wickedly performed by a heathenish and bloodthirsty BLACKAMOOR , their Servant . The like of which Cruelty and Murder was never before herd of . To the Tune of the Lady's Fallen . IN Rome a nobleman did wed A virgin of great fame , [ F ] airer creature never did Dame nature ever frame ; By whom he had two children fair , Whose beauty did excel . They were their parents only joy , They lov'd them both so well . The lord he lov'd to hunt the buck , The tiger , and the boar , And still , for swiftness , always took With him a blackamoor . Which blackamoor within the wood His lord he did offend , For which he did him then correct , In hope's he would amend . The day it grew unto and end , Then homeward he did haste , Where with his lady he did rest , Until the night was passed . Then in the morning he did rise , And did his servants call , A hunting he provides to go , And they were ready all . To cease his toil , the lady did Entreat him not to go . Alas ! good lady , then quoth he , Why art thou grieved so ? Content thyself , I will return With speed to thee again . Good father , quoth the little babes , With us here still remain . Farewell , dear children , I will go , A fine thing for to buy ; But they therewith nothing content Aloud began to cry . The mother takes them by the hand , Saying , Come , go with me Unto the highest tower , where Your father you shall see . The blackamoor perceiving now , Who then did stay behind , His lord to be a hunting gone , Began to call to mind , My master he did me correct , My fault not being great ; Now of his wife I'll be reveng'd , She shall not me entreat . The place was moated round about , The bridge he up did draw , The gates he bolted very fast , Of none he stood in awe . He up into the tower went , The lady being there , Who , when she saw his countenance grim , She strait began to fear . But now my trembling heart it quakes , To think what I must write , My senses all begin to fail , My soul it does affright ; Yet must I make and end of this , Which here I have begun , Which will make sad the hardest heart , Before that I have done . This wretch unto the lady went , And her with speed did will , His lust forthwith to satisfy , His revenge to fulfil . The lady she amazed was , To hear the villain speak . Alas ! quoth she , what shall I do , With grief my heart will break . With that he took her in his arms , She strait for help did cry : Content yourself , lady , he said , Your husband is not nigh . The bridge is drawn , the gates are shut , Therefore come lie with me , Or else I do protest and vow Thy butcher I will be . The crystal tears run down her face , Her children cry'd amain , And sought to help their mother dear , But all it was in vain . For that egregious filthy rogue , Her hands behind her bound , And then by force with all his might He threw her on the ground . With that she shrieks , her children cry'd , And such a noise did make , The town-folks hearing her lament , Did seek their parts to take , But all in vain , no way was found To help this lady's need , Who cry'd to them most piteously , Oh help , Oh help , with speed . Some run into the forest wide , Her lord home for to call , And they that stood still did lament This gallant lady's fallen . With speed her lord came posting home , He could not enter in . His lady's cries did pierce his heart , To call he did begin , Oh hold thy hand , thou savage Moor , To hurt heu do forbear . Or else be sure if I do live , Wild horses shall thee tear . With that the rogue ran to the wall , He having had his will , And brought one child unto the wall , His dearest blood to spill . The child seeing his father there , To him for help did call ; Oh father , help my mother dear , We shall be killed all . Then fell the lord upon his knees , And did the Moor entreat , To save the life of his poor child , Whose fear was then so great . But this vile wretch , the little child By both the heels did take , And dash'd his brains against the wall , While parents hearts did ache : That being done away he run , The other child to fetch , And pluck'd it from the mother's breast , Most like a cruel wretch . Within one hand a knife he brought , The child within the other , And holding it over the wall , Saying , Thus die shall thy mother , With that he cut the throat of it , Then to the fathdr he did call , To look how he the same did cu Then down the head did fallen . This done , he threw it down the wall , Into the mote so deep . Which made tee father wring his hands . And grievously to weep Then to the lady went this rogue , Who was near dead with fear . Yet this vile wretch most cruelly Did drag her by the hair , And drew her to the very wall , Which when her lord did see , Then presently he cried out , And fell upon his knee . Quoth he , if thou wilt save her life , Whom I do love so dear . I will forgive thee all is past , Though they concern me near . O save her life I thee beseech , Oh save her , I thee pray . And I will grant thee what thou wilt Demand of me this day . Well , quoth the Moor , I do regard The moan that thou dost make If thou wilt grant me what I ask , I'll save her for thy sake . O save her life , and then demand Of me what thing thou wilt . Cut of thy nose and not one drop Of her blood shall be spilled , With that the lord presently took A knife within his hand , And then his nose he quite cut off , In place where he did stand . Now I have bought me lady's life , Then to the Moor did call Then take her , quoth this wicked rogue And down he let her fallen . Which when her gallant lord did see , His senses all did fail : Yet many soughi to save his life , Yet nothing could prevail . When as the Moor did see him dead , Then did he laugh amain At them who for this gallant lord And lady did complain . Quoth he , I know you'll torture me . If that you can me get , But all your threats I do not fear Nor yet regard one whit . Wild horses will my body tear , I know it to be true ; But I'll prevent you of that pain . And down himself he threw . Too good a death far such a wretch ; A villain void of fear . And thus does end as sad a tale As ever man did hear . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 