The Noble Fisherman : Or , Robin Hood's Preferment . Tune of , In Summer time . IN Summer Time , when Leaves grow green , when they do grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw call'd Robin Hood , it is of him I sing this Song . When the Lily leaf and the Cowslip sweet both bud and spring with merry Cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the Woodside , and a chasing of the King's Deer . The Fishermen brave more Money have , than any Merchant two or three ; Therefore I will to Scarborough go , That I a Fisherman may be . This outlaw call'd his merry Men all , as they sat under the green wood Tree ; If any of you have Gold to spend , I pray you heartily spend it with me . Now , quoth Robin Hood , I'll to Scarborough go , it seems to be a very fine day ; Who took up his Inn at a widow woman's house , hard by the waters grey ; Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell me where thou dost fare ? I am a poor Fisherman said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy Name , thou fine fellow ? I pray thee heartily tell to me . In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over-the-lee . Simon , Simon , said the good wife , I wish thou may'st well brook thy Name : The Outlaw was 'ware of her courtesy , and rejoiced he had god such a Dame . Simon , wilt thou be my Man ? and good round wages I'll give thee ; I have as good a Ship of my own , as any that fails upon the sea : Anchors and planks thou shallt want none , Masts and Planks that are so long , And if that thou so furnish me , said Simon , nothing shall go wrong . They plucked up Anchor , and away did sail , more of a day than two or three ; When other cast in their baited Hooks , the bore Lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long , said the Master then , e'er this great Lubber do thrive at Sea ; He shall have no share of our fish , for in truth he is no part worthy . O woe is me , said Simon then , This day that ever I came here ! I wish I were in Plumbton Park , chasing of the Fallow Deer . For every clown laughs me to scorn , and by me sets nothing at all ; If I had them in Plumbton Park , I would set as little by them all . They pluck'd up Anchors and away did sail , more of a Day than two or three ; But Simon espied ! a ship of war , that sail'd towards them vigorously . O woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born ; For all the fish that we have god is every bit lost and forlorn ! For those French Robbers on the Sea , they will not spare of us one man , But carry us to the Coast of France , and lay us in a Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither , Master , take you care ; Give me my bent Bow in my Hand , and never a Frenchman will I spare . Hold thy Peace , thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boast ; If I should cast you over board , there's but a simple lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he ; Then he took his bent bow in his hand , and in the ship-hatch goes he . Master , tie me to the mast , he said , that at my mark I may stand fair , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a Frenchman will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the Head , and drew with might and main ; And straight , in the twinkling of and Eye , to the Frenchman's heart the Arrow gain . The Frenchman fell down on the ship hatch , and under the Hatches down below ; Another Frenchman that him espy'd . the dead Corpse into the Sea did throw . O Master , lose me from the Mast , he said , and never a Frenchman will I spare Then strait they boarded the French Ship , they lying all dead in their Sighed ; They found within the Ship of war twelve Thousand Pounds in Money bright . The one Half of the Ship , said Simon then , I'll give to my Dame and Children small ; The other Half of my Ship I'll give to you that are my Fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so , Simon , it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own Hands , and the owner of it you must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this Gold for the oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they shall live in peace and rest . Printed and sold by L. How , in Petticoat Lane . The Noble Fisherman : Or , Robin Hood's Preferment . Tune of , In Summer time . IN Summer Time , when Leaves grow green , when they do grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw call'd Robin Hood , it is of him I sing this Song . When the Lily leaf and the Cowslip sweet both bud and spring with merry Cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the Woodside , and a chasing of the King's Deer . The Fishermen brave more Money have , than any Merchant two or three ; Therefore I will to Scarborough go , That I a Fisherman may be . This outlaw call'd his merry Men all , as they sat under the green wood Tree ; If any of you have Gold to spend , I pray you heartily spend it with me . Now , quoth Robin Hood , I'll to Scarborough go , it seems to be a very fine day ; Who took up his Inn at a widow woman's house , hard by the waters grey ; Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell me where thou dost fare ? I am a poor Fisherman said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy Name , thou fine fellow ? I pray thee heartily tell to me . In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over-the-lee . Simon , Simon , said the good wife , I wish thou may'st well brook thy Name : The Outlaw was 'ware of her courtesy , and rejoiced he had god such a Dame . Simon , wilt thou be my Man ? and good round wages I'll give thee ; I have as good a Ship of my own , as any that fails upon the sea : Anchors and planks thou shallt want none , Masts and Planks that are so long , And if that thou so furnish me , said Simon , nothing shall go wrong . They plucked up Anchor , and away did sail , more of a day than two or three ; When other cast in their baited Hooks , the bore Lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long , said the Master then , e'er this great Lubber do thrive at Sea ; He shall have no share of our fish , for in truth he is no part worthy . O woe is me , said Simon then , This day that ever I came here ! I wish I were in Plumbton Park , chasing of the Fallow Deer . For every clown laughs me to scorn , and by me sets nothing at all ; If I had them in Plumbton Park , I would set as little by them all . They pluck'd up Anchors and away did sail , more of a Day than two or three ; But Simon espied ! a ship of war , that sail'd towards them vigorously . O woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born ; For all the fish that we have god is every bit lost and forlorn ! For those French Robbers on the Sea , they will not spare of us one man , But carry us to the Coast of France , and lay us in a Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither , Master , take you care ; Give me my bent Bow in my Hand , and never a Frenchman will I spare . Hold thy Peace , thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boast ; If I should cast you over board , there's but a simple lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he ; Then he took his bent bow in his hand , and in the ship-hatch goes he . Master , tie me to the mast , he said , that at my mark I may stand fair , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a Frenchman will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the Head , and drew with might and main ; And straight , in the twinkling of and Eye , to the Frenchman's heart the Arrow gain . The Frenchman fell down on the ship hatch , and under the Hatches down below ; Another Frenchman that him espy'd . the dead Corpse into the Sea did throw . O Master , lose me from the Mast , he said , and never a Frenchman will I spare Then strait they boarded the French Ship , they lying all dead in their Sighed ; They found within the Ship of war twelve Thousand Pounds in Money bright . The one Half of the Ship , said Simon then , I'll give to my Dame and Children small ; The other Half of my Ship I'll give to you that are my Fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so , Simon , it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own Hands , and the owner of it you must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this Gold for the oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they shall live in peace and rest . Printed and sold by L. How , in Petticoat Lane . 