BARBARA ALLEN's Cruelty ; OR , THE Young Man's TRAGEDY . IN Scarlet Town where I was bound , There was a fair maid dwelling ; Whom I had chosen for my own , And her name it was Barbara Allen . All in the merry month of May , Where green leaves they were springing This young man on his death bed lay , For the sake of Barbara Allen . He sent his man unto her then , To the town where she was dwelling You must come to my master dear , If your name is Barbara Allen . For death is printed in his face , And sorrows in him dwelling ; And you must come to my master dear , If thy name is Barbara Allen . If death be printed in his face , And sorrows in him dwelling ; Oh little better shall he be For Bonny Barbary Allen . So slowly she came to him , And so slowly she came to him ; And all she said when she came to him , Young man , I think you are dying . He turn'd his face unto her then , If you are Barbara Allen , My dear , said he , come pity me , As I am on my deathbed lying . If you are on your deathbed lying , What is that to Barbara Allen ? I cannot keep you from your death , Then farewell Barbara Allen . He turn'd his face unto the wall , And death came creeping on him , Then adieu , adieu , adieu to you all , And adieu to Barbara Allen . As she was walking out one day , She herd the bells' a ringing , And they did seem to ring to her , Unworthy Barbara Allen . She turn'd herself round about , And saw the corpse a coming , Lay down , lay down , the corpse said she , That I may look upon him . And all the while she looked on , So loudly she lay laughing , While all her friends cry'd out amain , Unworthy Barbara Allen , When he was dead and laid in his grave , Then death came creeping to she , Oh mother , mother , make my bed , For his death will quite undo me . Hardhearted creature that I was , To slight one that lov'd me so dearly ; I wish I had been more kind to him , In time of life when he was near me . So this maid she then did die , And desired to be buried by him ; And repented herself before she dy'd , That e'er she did deny him . As she was lying down to die , A sad feud she fell in ; She said , I pray take warning by Hardhearted Barbara Allen . BARBARA ALLEN's Cruelty ; OR , THE Young Man's TRAGEDY . IN Scarlet Town where I was bound , There was a fair maid dwelling ; Whom I had chosen for my own , And her name it was Barbara Allen . All in the merry month of May , Where green leaves they were springing This young man on his death bed lay , For the sake of Barbara Allen . He sent his man unto her then , To the town where she was dwelling You must come to my master dear , If your name is Barbara Allen . For death is printed in his face , And sorrows in him dwelling ; And you must come to my master dear , If thy name is Barbara Allen . If death be printed in his face , And sorrows in him dwelling ; Oh little better shall he be For Bonny Barbary Allen . So slowly she came to him , And so slowly she came to him ; And all she said when she came to him , Young man , I think you are dying . He turn'd his face unto her then , If you are Barbara Allen , My dear , said he , come pity me , As I am on my deathbed lying . If you are on your deathbed lying , What is that to Barbara Allen ? I cannot keep you from your death , Then farewell Barbara Allen . He turn'd his face unto the wall , And death came creeping on him , Then adieu , adieu , adieu to you all , And adieu to Barbara Allen . As she was walking out one day , She herd the bells' a ringing , And they did seem to ring to her , Unworthy Barbara Allen . She turn'd herself round about , And saw the corpse a coming , Lay down , lay down , the corpse said she , That I may look upon him . And all the while she looked on , So loudly she lay laughing , While all her friends cry'd out amain , Unworthy Barbara Allen , When he was dead and laid in his grave , Then death came creeping to she , Oh mother , mother , make my bed , For his death will quite undo me . Hardhearted creature that I was , To slight one that lov'd me so dearly ; I wish I had been more kind to him , In time of life when he was near me . So this maid she then did die , And desired to be buried by him ; And repented herself before she dy'd , That e'er she did deny him . As she was lying down to die , A sad feud she fell in ; She said , I pray take warning by Hardhearted Barbara Allen . 