Good News in Bad Times ; OR , Absaloms Return to David's Bosom . To the Tune of , Adieu to the Pleasures and Follies of Love . ADieu to the hope's of the Whigs of the State , The long-wish'd for News is arrived tho' late ; Reflections of Conscience did Monmouth convince , How much he had wrong'd his dear Father and Prince ; So hanious a Crime there's none durst befriend , But only the Monarch which he did offend ; Great YORK intercedes for him , And Nature pleads for him , to Kiss the hand of his Monarch again . II So humble a Submission , so pensive a Face , So glorious and advocate needs must find grace ; The Godlike great Brother's did Monmouth restore , The height of whose crime shew'd their mercy more ; As before in the Court altogether they shin'd , In the Presence again they will strike envy blind ; For York has retrieved him , The King received him , Monarchs have mercy , and Nature is kind . III . The Peace you have made so successful will prove , No Seperatist dares to add Gall to your Dove ; Be deaf to those Crocidiles if they do whine , They love not your Father nor none of his Line : A Presbyter-Priest when his Zeal does provoke , Is a heap of Combustables in a long Cloak : Who e're burned the City down , Now 'tis a pretty Town , But they once made the three Nations to Smoak . IV. Away to the Court and Survey e'ry Room , Your presence will bring there a ricker Perfume : Each Picture will bow there , and smile in your face , And those that detracted will pray for your Grace ; Then keep in the Court , and your favour renew With Caesar , and those that have lov'd you so true : And let the Rabble know , You'l have no more to do , With such a factious Illiterate Crew . V. The Faction who carrys Religion in's face , Will make no more treats , nor drink healths to your Grace For since you'r returned to Great Caesars Breast , They swear you'r a papist as well as the rest ; And now they remember the Machine of State Was afraid that your Father and you were too great ; And nothing troubles them , But that you Bubbled them , Of all their hope's , and of many a Treat . VI . Keep close to your Gracious forgiving Great King , And every day some new Offering bring ; Discover Great-Brittain's Intestine foes , And those that the Church and her interest oppose ; By this you'l deserve the great favour obtain'd , And wipe off that Blemish with which you were stain'd And like a Glorious Star , Of our bright Hemisphere , One of her Patrons for ever proclaim'd . VII . Then bless the good Duke , and your father renown , But hate those that put you in thoughts of a Crown : Live under its beams , for the shelter is good , But think not to injure the old Royal Blood : Who Heaven has adopted for a Crowned Head , Must wait for the hour of the Field or the Bed ; And there in Honours sighed , Take nought but what is right , Wronging Succession is wronging the dead . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-sm [ i ] thfield . Good News in Bad Times ; OR , Absaloms Return to David's Bosom . To the Tune of , Adieu to the Pleasures and Follies of Love . ADieu to the hope's of the Whigs of the State , The long-wish'd for News is arrived tho' late ; Reflections of Conscience did Monmouth convince , How much he had wrong'd his dear Father and Prince ; So hanious a Crime there's none durst befriend , But only the Monarch which he did offend ; Great YORK intercedes for him , And Nature pleads for him , to Kiss the hand of his Monarch again . II So humble a Submission , so pensive a Face , So glorious and advocate needs must find grace ; The Godlike great Brother's did Monmouth restore , The height of whose crime shew'd their mercy more ; As before in the Court altogether they shin'd , In the Presence again they will strike envy blind ; For York has retrieved him , The King received him , Monarchs have mercy , and Nature is kind . III . The Peace you have made so successful will prove , No Seperatist dares to add Gall to your Dove ; Be deaf to those Crocidiles if they do whine , They love not your Father nor none of his Line : A Presbyter-Priest when his Zeal does provoke , Is a heap of Combustables in a long Cloak : Who e're burned the City down , Now 'tis a pretty Town , But they once made the three Nations to Smoak . IV. Away to the Court and Survey e'ry Room , Your presence will bring there a ricker Perfume : Each Picture will bow there , and smile in your face , And those that detracted will pray for your Grace ; Then keep in the Court , and your favour renew With Caesar , and those that have lov'd you so true : And let the Rabble know , You'l have no more to do , With such a factious Illiterate Crew . V. The Faction who carrys Religion in's face , Will make no more treats , nor drink healths to your Grace For since you'r returned to Great Caesars Breast , They swear you'r a papist as well as the rest ; And now they remember the Machine of State Was afraid that your Father and you were too great ; And nothing troubles them , But that you Bubbled them , Of all their hope's , and of many a Treat . VI . Keep close to your Gracious forgiving Great King , And every day some new Offering bring ; Discover Great-Brittain's Intestine foes , And those that the Church and her interest oppose ; By this you'l deserve the great favour obtain'd , And wipe off that Blemish with which you were stain'd And like a Glorious Star , Of our bright Hemisphere , One of her Patrons for ever proclaim'd . VII . Then bless the good Duke , and your father renown , But hate those that put you in thoughts of a Crown : Live under its beams , for the shelter is good , But think not to injure the old Royal Blood : Who Heaven has adopted for a Crowned Head , Must wait for the hour of the Field or the Bed ; And there in Honours sighed , Take nought but what is right , Wronging Succession is wronging the dead . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-sm [ i ] thfield . 