ROMAN CHARITY . A Worthy Example of a Virtuous WIFE , Who fed her Father with her own Milk . He being commanded by the Emperor to be Starved to Death , but afterwards Pardoned . IN Rome , I read a Nobleman The Emperor did offend , And for that fault he was adjudg'd Unto a cruel End. That he should be in prison cast With irons many a one ; And there be famish'd unto death , And brought to skin and bones And more , if any one were known , By night or yet by day ; To bring him any kind of Food His hunger to allay ; The Emperor swore a mighty oath , Without remorse , quoth he , They shall sustain the cruelest death That can devised be . This cruel sentence once pronounc'd The Nobleman was cast . Into a dungeon deep and dark , With irons fetter'd fast ; Where when he had with hunger great Remained ten days space ; And tasted neither meat nor drink , In a most woeful case . The tears along his aged face , Most piteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin For to complain : Oh Lord ! quoth he , what shall I do ? So hungry am I ; For want of bred , one bit of bred , I perish , starve , and die . How precious is one grain of wheat Unto a hungry soul ? One crust or crumb , or little piece My hunger to control . Had I this dungeon heap'd with gold , I now would give it all , To buy and purchase one small loaf , Yea , were it e'er so small . O that I had but every day One bit of bred to eat , Tho' ne'er so mouldy , black , or brown My comfort would be great . Yes , tho' I did take it up , Trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , And sweet to my desire . Good Lord ! most happy is the hind , That labours all the day : The drudging mule , the peasant poor That at command do stay , They have their ordinary meals , They take no heed at all , Of those crumbs and crusts that they Do carelessly let fallen . How happy is the little chick , Who without fear does go , And pick up those precious crumbs Which they away do throw . O that some pretty small mouse , So much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust Into this place to me . But Oh my heart it is in vain , No succour can I have ; No meat , no drink , nor water eke , My loathed life to save . O bring some bred for Christ's sake , Some bred , some bred to me ; I die , I die , for want of food , None but stone walls I see . Thus night and day he cry'd , In such outrageous sort ; That all the people far and near , were griev'd at his report . And tho' great many Friends he had , And daughters in the town ; Yet none durst come to succour him , Fearing the Emperor's frown . Yet now behold one daughter dear , He had as we do find ; Who liv'd in his displeasure great For not wedding to his mind . Altho' she liv'd in mean estate , She was a virtuous wife , And for to help her father dear She ventur'd thus her life . She quickly to her sister's went , And of them did entreat , That by some secret means they would Convey their father meat . Our father does starve , said she , The Emperor's wrath is such , He die , alas , for want of food , Whereof we have too much . prey sisters , therefore use some means His life for to preserve : And suffer not your father dear In prison for to starve . Alas , said they , what shall we do His hunger to sustain , You know 'tis death for any one That would his life maintain ; And tho' we wish him well , said they , We never will agree To spoil ourselves ; we had as lief That he should die as we : And sister , if you love yourself . Let this attempt alone ; Tho' you do ne'er so secret work , In time it will be known . O hath our father brought us up , And nourish'd us , quoth she ; And shall we now forsake him quite , In his extremity ? No , I will venture life and limb , To do my father good , The worst that is , I can but die , To fit a tyrant's mood . With that in haste away she flies , And to the prison goes ; But with her dismal father dear She might not speak , God knows , Except the Emperor would grant Her father in that case ; The keeper would admit no one To enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , And falling on her knees , With wringing hands and bitter cries , These words pronounced she : 'My helpless father , sovereign Liege , Offending of your Grace ; Is judg'd unto a pining death , Within a dismal place ; Which I confess he has deserv'd , Yet mighty prince , says she , Vouchsafe in gracious sort to grant One simple boon to me . It chanced so , I match'd myself Against my father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , As fortune had assign'd . And seeing now the time is come , He must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I may speak to him Before the hour of death . And reconcile myself to him , His favour to obtain , That when he die , I may not there Under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request , Conditionally that she , Each day unto her father went , Should thoroughly searched be . No meat or drink she with her brought To help him him there distressed , But every day she nourish'd him With milk from her own breast . Thus by her milk he was preserv'd A twelvemonth and a day ; And was so fair and fat to see , Yet none could tell which way . The Emperor musing much thereat ; At length did understand , How he was fed , and not his law Was broke at any hand . And much admired at the same , And her great virtues shown , He pardon'd him , and honour'd her With great preferments known . Her father ever after that ; Lov'd her as his life ; And blessed the day that she was made A virtuous loving wife . Sold in Aldermary Churchyard , London ROMAN CHARITY . A Worthy Example of a Virtuous WIFE , Who fed her Father with her own Milk . He being commanded by the Emperor to be Starved to Death , but afterwards Pardoned . IN Rome , I read a Nobleman The Emperor did offend , And for that fault he was adjudg'd Unto a cruel End. That he should be in prison cast With irons many a one ; And there be famish'd unto death , And brought to skin and bones And more , if any one were known , By night or yet by day ; To bring him any kind of Food His hunger to allay ; The Emperor swore a mighty oath , Without remorse , quoth he , They shall sustain the cruelest death That can devised be . This cruel sentence once pronounc'd The Nobleman was cast . Into a dungeon deep and dark , With irons fetter'd fast ; Where when he had with hunger great Remained ten days space ; And tasted neither meat nor drink , In a most woeful case . The tears along his aged face , Most piteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin For to complain : Oh Lord ! quoth he , what shall I do ? So hungry am I ; For want of bred , one bit of bred , I perish , starve , and die . How precious is one grain of wheat Unto a hungry soul ? One crust or crumb , or little piece My hunger to control . Had I this dungeon heap'd with gold , I now would give it all , To buy and purchase one small loaf , Yea , were it e'er so small . O that I had but every day One bit of bred to eat , Tho' ne'er so mouldy , black , or brown My comfort would be great . Yes , tho' I did take it up , Trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , And sweet to my desire . Good Lord ! most happy is the hind , That labours all the day : The drudging mule , the peasant poor That at command do stay , They have their ordinary meals , They take no heed at all , Of those crumbs and crusts that they Do carelessly let fallen . How happy is the little chick , Who without fear does go , And pick up those precious crumbs Which they away do throw . O that some pretty small mouse , So much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust Into this place to me . But Oh my heart it is in vain , No succour can I have ; No meat , no drink , nor water eke , My loathed life to save . O bring some bred for Christ's sake , Some bred , some bred to me ; I die , I die , for want of food , None but stone walls I see . Thus night and day he cry'd , In such outrageous sort ; That all the people far and near , were griev'd at his report . And tho' great many Friends he had , And daughters in the town ; Yet none durst come to succour him , Fearing the Emperor's frown . Yet now behold one daughter dear , He had as we do find ; Who liv'd in his displeasure great For not wedding to his mind . Altho' she liv'd in mean estate , She was a virtuous wife , And for to help her father dear She ventur'd thus her life . She quickly to her sister's went , And of them did entreat , That by some secret means they would Convey their father meat . Our father does starve , said she , The Emperor's wrath is such , He die , alas , for want of food , Whereof we have too much . prey sisters , therefore use some means His life for to preserve : And suffer not your father dear In prison for to starve . Alas , said they , what shall we do His hunger to sustain , You know 'tis death for any one That would his life maintain ; And tho' we wish him well , said they , We never will agree To spoil ourselves ; we had as lief That he should die as we : And sister , if you love yourself . Let this attempt alone ; Tho' you do ne'er so secret work , In time it will be known . O hath our father brought us up , And nourish'd us , quoth she ; And shall we now forsake him quite , In his extremity ? No , I will venture life and limb , To do my father good , The worst that is , I can but die , To fit a tyrant's mood . With that in haste away she flies , And to the prison goes ; But with her dismal father dear She might not speak , God knows , Except the Emperor would grant Her father in that case ; The keeper would admit no one To enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , And falling on her knees , With wringing hands and bitter cries , These words pronounced she : 'My helpless father , sovereign Liege , Offending of your Grace ; Is judg'd unto a pining death , Within a dismal place ; Which I confess he has deserv'd , Yet mighty prince , says she , Vouchsafe in gracious sort to grant One simple boon to me . It chanced so , I match'd myself Against my father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , As fortune had assign'd . And seeing now the time is come , He must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I may speak to him Before the hour of death . And reconcile myself to him , His favour to obtain , That when he die , I may not there Under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request , Conditionally that she , Each day unto her father went , Should thoroughly searched be . No meat or drink she with her brought To help him him there distressed , But every day she nourish'd him With milk from her own breast . Thus by her milk he was preserv'd A twelvemonth and a day ; And was so fair and fat to see , Yet none could tell which way . The Emperor musing much thereat ; At length did understand , How he was fed , and not his law Was broke at any hand . And much admired at the same , And her great virtues shown , He pardon'd him , and honour'd her With great preferments known . Her father ever after that ; Lov'd her as his life ; And blessed the day that she was made A virtuous loving wife . Sold in Aldermary Churchyard , London 