The Country Innocence : OR THE Shepherd's Enjoyment . A New Pastoral at the Theatre . To a Pleasant New Tune . HAppy is the Country Life ; blessed with Content , and Health & Ease , Free from Faction , Noise , and strife , we only Plot our selves to please : Peace in mind , the days Delight , And Loves our welcome Dream at night . Hail green Fields and shady Woods , hail Springs & Streams that still run pure , Nature's uncorrupted Goods , where Virtue only is secure : Free from Vice , and free from Care , No age nor pain , nor Youth nor snare . Hail to the peaceful Shepherd's life , hail to each happy Rural Swain , That lives secure with his old Wife , below Contempt , above Disdain : No storms of Fortune e're can break Those Marriage Vows their Loves did make . In Cooler Shades , i'th heat o'th day , we set our harmless Flocks to Rove , Beneath we see our Lamkins play , and treat our selves with virtuous Love , I Pipe , she Sings , our Flocks they Bleat , While grateful Echoes all Repeat . When o're the flowery Meads we walk , to some refreshing purling Spring , So innocent is all our talk , the Birds who admire us leave to sing : From Bush to Bush , and Bough to Bough , They follow us where e're we go . Sometime within the Silver Brook , we play the subtle Anglers there , And with a season-baited Hook , the Water Citizens ensnare : Sometime our Dogs in wanton play , Makes little Laverits their prey . At night we fold our Milky Heard , and e're the Sun has left the Sphere , A wholesome Supper is prepar'd , of cleanly honest Country fare : And then to Bed , and Arm in Arm , We sleep secure from envies harm . FINIS . The Country Innocence : OR THE Shepherd's Enjoyment . A New Pastoral at the Theatre . To a Pleasant New Tune . HAppy is the Country Life ; blessed with Content , and Health & Ease , Free from Faction , Noise , and strife , we only Plot our selves to please : Peace in mind , the days Delight , And Loves our welcome Dream at night . Hail green Fields and shady Woods , hail Springs & Streams that still run pure , Nature's uncorrupted Goods , where Virtue only is secure : Free from Vice , and free from Care , No age nor pain , nor Youth nor snare . Hail to the peaceful Shepherd's life , hail to each happy Rural Swain , That lives secure with his old Wife , below Contempt , above Disdain : No storms of Fortune e're can break Those Marriage Vows their Loves did make . In Cooler Shades , i'th heat o'th day , we set our harmless Flocks to Rove , Beneath we see our Lamkins play , and treat our selves with virtuous Love , I Pipe , she Sings , our Flocks they Bleat , While grateful Echoes all Repeat . When o're the flowery Meads we walk , to some refreshing purling Spring , So innocent is all our talk , the Birds who admire us leave to sing : From Bush to Bush , and Bough to Bough , They follow us where e're we go . Sometime within the Silver Brook , we play the subtle Anglers there , And with a season-baited Hook , the Water Citizens ensnare : Sometime our Dogs in wanton play , Makes little Laverits their prey . At night we fold our Milky Heard , and e're the Sun has left the Sphere , A wholesome Supper is prepar'd , of cleanly honest Country fare : And then to Bed , and Arm in Arm , We sleep secure from envies harm . FINIS . 