The Confined Lover . No Prison like to CUPIDS Goal , where some Confined be , When Sighs and Tears cannot prevail , to purchase Liberty : Till tender Females do apply a Balsom to the Wound ; Some Lovers live , some sighing die , and so the World goes Round . To the Tune of , The Charms of Love . AH ! how powerful is her Charming eye , which so strangely does enslave me ; Cupid I feel thy Tyranny , of all my sense thou dost bereave me : The more I strive for to get free , the stronger I find is my Desire , Thou art my Dear the only she , that to my burning flame still adds a scorching fire . Now now in Fetters i'le Delight , and joy to see my self thus Chained ; For when thou art out of my sighed , I find my self extremely pained : While others sweetly take their rest , in secret I do mourn for thee ; And then my sorrows makes me blessed , my Silvia I delight my self in none but thee . Sweet Dreams too often vex my Soul , when waking I do find they flatter , Methinks I see her through a Hold , and yet by no means can come at her : O then I storm like one enraged , and blame that wanton winking Boy , No sooner is my heart assuaged , but Silvia is again my Love and dearest Joy . But should she prove to me unkind , and give to me a flat denial , No joys on earth could ease my mind , who while I live must needs be Loyal : No falsehood shall be found in me , while I retain my murmuring breath , But Silvia i'le be true to thee , until I chance to meet with grim and pale-fac'd death . Then let the world on me look strange , and blame my found and helpless passion , The wavering mind delights in change , and calls perhaps my Vow a rash one : But let man count me what he pleases , o Love is a pain I now delight in , Nor can be any such Diseases , as Females angry frowns when they their Loves are slighting . Betwixt my pleasure and my pain , I am sometime pleas'd , sometime tormented , Though once I did love clear disdain , I now therewith am well contented : And thus I spend my Youthful days , in Doting and in found desire , But when Loves passion I dispraise , immediately I burn and fry in endless Fire . Let none despise the Winged Boy , whose Darts are of exceeding power , And those who Love do count a Toy , may lose their freedoms in and hour : And when they'r once lay'd up and chained , no sighs can purchase Liberty , Where Cupid finds himself disdained , his darts that are resistless then he soon lets fly . Yet to be Strangers to his Fires , is altogether hapless counted , For he that's fill'd with hight desires , to the height of joy is surely mounted : For if one minute brings him pain , the next does bring him much more pleasure , Then let no man kind love disdain , for 'tis the best of worldly joys , and earthly treasure . O Mortals pattern take by me , that now in Love am so delighted , Methinks I gain my Liberty , when I perceive my self but slighted : And then my self I do recall , I chide my self who vow'd to love , When I poor Captive was in thrall , I thought my self as happy as the Souls above . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow near Davids-Inn in Holborn . The Confined Lover . No Prison like to CUPIDS Goal , where some Confined be , When Sighs and Tears cannot prevail , to purchase Liberty : Till tender Females do apply a Balsom to the Wound ; Some Lovers live , some sighing die , and so the World goes Round . To the Tune of , The Charms of Love . AH ! how powerful is her Charming eye , which so strangely does enslave me ; Cupid I feel thy Tyranny , of all my sense thou dost bereave me : The more I strive for to get free , the stronger I find is my Desire , Thou art my Dear the only she , that to my burning flame still adds a scorching fire . Now now in Fetters i'le Delight , and joy to see my self thus Chained ; For when thou art out of my sighed , I find my self extremely pained : While others sweetly take their rest , in secret I do mourn for thee ; And then my sorrows makes me blessed , my Silvia I delight my self in none but thee . Sweet Dreams too often vex my Soul , when waking I do find they flatter , Methinks I see her through a Hold , and yet by no means can come at her : O then I storm like one enraged , and blame that wanton winking Boy , No sooner is my heart assuaged , but Silvia is again my Love and dearest Joy . But should she prove to me unkind , and give to me a flat denial , No joys on earth could ease my mind , who while I live must needs be Loyal : No falsehood shall be found in me , while I retain my murmuring breath , But Silvia i'le be true to thee , until I chance to meet with grim and pale-fac'd death . Then let the world on me look strange , and blame my found and helpless passion , The wavering mind delights in change , and calls perhaps my Vow a rash one : But let man count me what he pleases , o Love is a pain I now delight in , Nor can be any such Diseases , as Females angry frowns when they their Loves are slighting . Betwixt my pleasure and my pain , I am sometime pleas'd , sometime tormented , Though once I did love clear disdain , I now therewith am well contented : And thus I spend my Youthful days , in Doting and in found desire , But when Loves passion I dispraise , immediately I burn and fry in endless Fire . Let none despise the Winged Boy , whose Darts are of exceeding power , And those who Love do count a Toy , may lose their freedoms in and hour : And when they'r once lay'd up and chained , no sighs can purchase Liberty , Where Cupid finds himself disdained , his darts that are resistless then he soon lets fly . Yet to be Strangers to his Fires , is altogether hapless counted , For he that's fill'd with hight desires , to the height of joy is surely mounted : For if one minute brings him pain , the next does bring him much more pleasure , Then let no man kind love disdain , for 'tis the best of worldly joys , and earthly treasure . O Mortals pattern take by me , that now in Love am so delighted , Methinks I gain my Liberty , when I perceive my self but slighted : And then my self I do recall , I chide my self who vow'd to love , When I poor Captive was in thrall , I thought my self as happy as the Souls above . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow near Davids-Inn in Holborn . The Confined Lover . No Prison like to CUPIDS Goal , where some Confined be , When Sighs and Tears cannot prevail , to purchase Liberty : Till tender Females do apply a Balsom to the Wound ; Some Lovers live , some sighing die , and so the World goes Round . To the Tune of , The Charms of Love . AH ! how powerful is her Charming eye , which so strangely does enslave me ; Cupid I feel thy Tyranny , of all my sense thou dost bereave me : The more I strive for to get free , the stronger I find is my Desire , Thou art my Dear the only she , that to my burning flame still adds a scorching fire . Now now in Fetters i'le Delight , and joy to see my self thus Chained ; For when thou art out of my sighed , I find my self extremely pained : While others sweetly take their rest , in secret I do mourn for thee ; And then my sorrows makes me blessed , my Silvia I delight my self in none but thee . Sweet Dreams too often vex my Soul , when waking I do find they flatter , Methinks I see her through a Hold , and yet by no means can come at her : O then I storm like one enraged , and blame that wanton winking Boy , No sooner is my heart assuaged , but Silvia is again my Love and dearest Joy . But should she prove to me unkind , and give to me a flat denial , No joys on earth could ease my mind , who while I live must needs be Loyal : No falsehood shall be found in me , while I retain my murmuring breath , But Silvia i'le be true to thee , until I chance to meet with grim and pale-fac'd death . Then let the world on me look strange , and blame my found and helpless passion , The wavering mind delights in change , and calls perhaps my Vow a rash one : But let man count me what he pleases , o Love is a pain I now delight in , Nor can be any such Diseases , as Females angry frowns when they their Loves are slighting . Betwixt my pleasure and my pain , I am sometime pleas'd , sometime tormented , Though once I did love clear disdain , I now therewith am well contented : And thus I spend my Youthful days , in Doting and in found desire , But when Loves passion I dispraise , immediately I burn and fry in endless Fire . Let none despise the Winged Boy , whose Darts are of exceeding power , And those who Love do count a Toy , may lose their freedoms in and hour : And when they'r once lay'd up and chained , no sighs can purchase Liberty , Where Cupid finds himself disdained , his darts that are resistless then he soon lets fly . Yet to be Strangers to his Fires , is altogether hapless counted , For he that's fill'd with hight desires , to the height of joy is surely mounted : For if one minute brings him pain , the next does bring him much more pleasure , Then let no man kind love disdain , for 'tis the best of worldly joys , and earthly treasure . O Mortals pattern take by me , that now in Love am so delighted , Methinks I gain my Liberty , when I perceive my self but slighted : And then my self I do recall , I chide my self who vow'd to love , When I poor Captive was in thrall , I thought my self as happy as the Souls above . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow near Davids-Inn in Holborn . The Confined Lover . No Prison like to CUPIDS Goal , where some Confined be , When Sighs and Tears cannot prevail , to purchase Liberty : Till tender Females do apply a Balsom to the Wound ; Some Lovers live , some sighing die , and so the World goes Round . To the Tune of , The Charms of Love . AH ! how powerful is her Charming eye , which so strangely does enslave me ; Cupid I feel thy Tyranny , of all my sense thou dost bereave me : The more I strive for to get free , the stronger I find is my Desire , Thou art my Dear the only she , that to my burning flame still adds a scorching fire . Now now in Fetters i'le Delight , and joy to see my self thus Chained ; For when thou art out of my sighed , I find my self extremely pained : While others sweetly take their rest , in secret I do mourn for thee ; And then my sorrows makes me blessed , my Silvia I delight my self in none but thee . Sweet Dreams too often vex my Soul , when waking I do find they flatter , Methinks I see her through a Hold , and yet by no means can come at her : O then I storm like one enraged , and blame that wanton winking Boy , No sooner is my heart assuaged , but Silvia is again my Love and dearest Joy . But should she prove to me unkind , and give to me a flat denial , No joys on earth could ease my mind , who while I live must needs be Loyal : No falsehood shall be found in me , while I retain my murmuring breath , But Silvia i'le be true to thee , until I chance to meet with grim and pale-fac'd death . Then let the world on me look strange , and blame my found and helpless passion , The wavering mind delights in change , and calls perhaps my Vow a rash one : But let man count me what he pleases , o Love is a pain I now delight in , Nor can be any such Diseases , as Females angry frowns when they their Loves are slighting . Betwixt my pleasure and my pain , I am sometime pleas'd , sometime tormented , Though once I did love clear disdain , I now therewith am well contented : And thus I spend my Youthful days , in Doting and in found desire , But when Loves passion I dispraise , immediately I burn and fry in endless Fire . Let none despise the Winged Boy , whose Darts are of exceeding power , And those who Love do count a Toy , may lose their freedoms in and hour : And when they'r once lay'd up and chained , no sighs can purchase Liberty , Where Cupid finds himself disdained , his darts that are resistless then he soon lets fly . Yet to be Strangers to his Fires , is altogether hapless counted , For he that's fill'd with hight desires , to the height of joy is surely mounted : For if one minute brings him pain , the next does bring him much more pleasure , Then let no man kind love disdain , for 'tis the best of worldly joys , and earthly treasure . O Mortals pattern take by me , that now in Love am so delighted , Methinks I gain my Liberty , when I perceive my self but slighted : And then my self I do recall , I chide my self who vow'd to love , When I poor Captive was in thrall , I thought my self as happy as the Souls above . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow near Davids-Inn in Holborn . 