The LIFE and DEATH of The Famous Thomas Stukely , And English Gentleman , in the Time of Queen Elizabeth ; who ended his Life in the Battle of the Three Kings of Barbary . IN the west of Eagland , Born there was , I understand ; A famous gallant was he in his days ; By birth a wealthy clothier's son , Deeds of wonder he hath done , To purchase him a long and lasting praise If I would tell you his story , Pride was all his glory ; And lusty Stukely he was call'd in court . He serv'd a bishop in the west , And did accompany the best ; Maintaining of himself in gallant sort . Being thus esteemed , And every where well deemed , He gain'd the favour of a London dame ; Daughter to and alderman . Curtis she was called then , To whom a suitor gallantly he came . When she his person 'spied , He could not be denied ; So brave a gentleman he was to see . She was quickly made his wife , For better for worse to led her life ; Her father willing thereto did agree , Thus in state and pleasure , Full many days the9 measure ; Till cruel Death , with his regardless spite , Boar old Curtis to his grave ; A thing which Stukely wish'd to have , That he might revel then in gold so bright . He was no sooner tombed , But Stukely he presumed , To spend a hundred pounds a day in waste . The greatest gallant in the land , Had Stukely's purse at their command . Thus merrily away the time he passed . Taverns and ordinaries Were his chief Bravaries ; Golden angels then flew up and down . Riots were his chief delight , With stately feasting day and night ; In court and city thus he wone renown . Thus wasting lands and living , By this lawless giving ; At length he sold the pavement of the yard , Which covered was with blocks of tin ; Old Curtis left the same to him , Which he consumed lately as you've herd . At this his wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved ; Make much of me , dear husband , she did say . I'll make more of thee , said he , Than any one shall verily ; I'll fell thy clothes , and then go my way . Cruelly thus heard-hearted , Away from her he parted ; And travel'd into Italy with speed : There he flourish'd many a day , In his silks and rich array ; And did the pleasures of a lady feed . It was the lady's pleasure , To give him gold and treasure ; To maintain him with great pomp and fame , At last news came assuredly , Of a battle fought in Barbary ; And he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble gallant , Sold both land and talon , To follow Stukely in this famous fight ; Whereas three kings would Advent'rously with courage bold , Within this battle shew'd themselves in fight . Stukely and his followers all , Of the king of Portugal , Had entertainment like to gentlemen . The king affected Stukely so , That he did his secrets know ; And boar his royal standard now and then . Upon this day of honour , Each man did his manner . Morocco , and the king of Barbary , Portugal , and all his train , Bravely glittering on the plain , And gave the onset there most valiantly . The cannons there rebounded ; Ad [ worser ] thundering guns resounded ; Kill , kill , then was the soldiers cry . Mangled men lay on the ground , And with blood the earth was drown'd ; The sun was likewis darken'd in the sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased ; But tokens of God's wrath did show : That he was angry at this war , He sent a fearful blazing star , Thereby the king might his misfortune know . Bloody was the slaughter , Or rather cursed murder ; Where sixscore thousand fighting men be slave . Three kings within this fight dy'd , And forty lords and dukes beside ; The like may never more be fought again . With woeful arms enfolding , Stukely stood beholding , This cursed sacrifice of men that day . He sighing said , I wicked wight , Against my conscience here to fight ; And brought my followers unto decay . Being thus soar vexed , And with grief oppressed ; These brave Italians that sold their lands , With Stukely to venture forth , And hazard life for nothing worth , Upon him then did cast their cursed hands . Unto death thus wounded , His heart with sorrow swooned ; Unto them he made his heavy moan : Thus have I left my country dear , To be in this manner murder'd here ? Even in this place where I am not known . My wife I have much wronged , Of what to her belonged , I did consume in wicked course of life . What I had is passed I see , And brings nought but grief to me : Therefore grant me pardon , loving wife . Life I see consumeth , And Death I see presumeth To change this life of mine into a new ; Yet this my greatest comfort brings , I liv'd and dy'd in love of kings . And so brave Stukely bids the world adieu . Stukely's life thus ended , Was after death befriended , And like a soldier buried gallantly : Where now there stands upon the grave A stately temple built brave , With golden turrets piercing to the sky . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The LIFE and DEATH of The Famous Thomas Stukely , And English Gentleman , in the Time of Queen Elizabeth ; who ended his Life in the Battle of the Three Kings of Barbary . IN the west of Eagland , Born there was , I understand ; A famous gallant was he in his days ; By birth a wealthy clothier's son , Deeds of wonder he hath done , To purchase him a long and lasting praise If I would tell you his story , Pride was all his glory ; And lusty Stukely he was call'd in court . He serv'd a bishop in the west , And did accompany the best ; Maintaining of himself in gallant sort . Being thus esteemed , And every where well deemed , He gain'd the favour of a London dame ; Daughter to and alderman . Curtis she was called then , To whom a suitor gallantly he came . When she his person 'spied , He could not be denied ; So brave a gentleman he was to see . She was quickly made his wife , For better for worse to led her life ; Her father willing thereto did agree , Thus in state and pleasure , Full many days the9 measure ; Till cruel Death , with his regardless spite , Boar old Curtis to his grave ; A thing which Stukely wish'd to have , That he might revel then in gold so bright . He was no sooner tombed , But Stukely he presumed , To spend a hundred pounds a day in waste . The greatest gallant in the land , Had Stukely's purse at their command . Thus merrily away the time he passed . Taverns and ordinaries Were his chief Bravaries ; Golden angels then flew up and down . Riots were his chief delight , With stately feasting day and night ; In court and city thus he wone renown . Thus wasting lands and living , By this lawless giving ; At length he sold the pavement of the yard , Which covered was with blocks of tin ; Old Curtis left the same to him , Which he consumed lately as you've herd . At this his wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved ; Make much of me , dear husband , she did say . I'll make more of thee , said he , Than any one shall verily ; I'll fell thy clothes , and then go my way . Cruelly thus heard-hearted , Away from her he parted ; And travel'd into Italy with speed : There he flourish'd many a day , In his silks and rich array ; And did the pleasures of a lady feed . It was the lady's pleasure , To give him gold and treasure ; To maintain him with great pomp and fame , At last news came assuredly , Of a battle fought in Barbary ; And he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble gallant , Sold both land and talon , To follow Stukely in this famous fight ; Whereas three kings would Advent'rously with courage bold , Within this battle shew'd themselves in fight . Stukely and his followers all , Of the king of Portugal , Had entertainment like to gentlemen . The king affected Stukely so , That he did his secrets know ; And boar his royal standard now and then . Upon this day of honour , Each man did his manner . Morocco , and the king of Barbary , Portugal , and all his train , Bravely glittering on the plain , And gave the onset there most valiantly . The cannons there rebounded ; Ad [ worser ] thundering guns resounded ; Kill , kill , then was the soldiers cry . Mangled men lay on the ground , And with blood the earth was drown'd ; The sun was likewis darken'd in the sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased ; But tokens of God's wrath did show : That he was angry at this war , He sent a fearful blazing star , Thereby the king might his misfortune know . Bloody was the slaughter , Or rather cursed murder ; Where sixscore thousand fighting men be slave . Three kings within this fight dy'd , And forty lords and dukes beside ; The like may never more be fought again . With woeful arms enfolding , Stukely stood beholding , This cursed sacrifice of men that day . He sighing said , I wicked wight , Against my conscience here to fight ; And brought my followers unto decay . Being thus soar vexed , And with grief oppressed ; These brave Italians that sold their lands , With Stukely to venture forth , And hazard life for nothing worth , Upon him then did cast their cursed hands . Unto death thus wounded , His heart with sorrow swooned ; Unto them he made his heavy moan : Thus have I left my country dear , To be in this manner murder'd here ? Even in this place where I am not known . My wife I have much wronged , Of what to her belonged , I did consume in wicked course of life . What I had is passed I see , And brings nought but grief to me : Therefore grant me pardon , loving wife . Life I see consumeth , And Death I see presumeth To change this life of mine into a new ; Yet this my greatest comfort brings , I liv'd and dy'd in love of kings . And so brave Stukely bids the world adieu . Stukely's life thus ended , Was after death befriended , And like a soldier buried gallantly : Where now there stands upon the grave A stately temple built brave , With golden turrets piercing to the sky . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 