The Masterpiece of Love Songs . BEING A Dialogue betwixt a bold Keeper and a Lady gay , Who woo'd his Lord's Daughter , and carried the Day . But soon after Marriage was forced for to Fight With his Lord and six Gentlemen for his own Right ; He cut them and hew'd them , and paid them with Blows , And made them his Friends who before were his Foes To the Tune of , A Week after Easter . IT was a bold Keeper that chased a Deer , Of a stouter bold Spirit you never did hear , But he loved a Lady of Beauty most clear , And now you shall hear of their Wooing . Keeper ] O pity , fair Lady the Suit which I move , For I'm deep in Affection , and tossed in Love ; For you are the Lady , the Turtle and Dove Whereon I have cast my Affection . Lady ] O Keeper forbear , I shall thus answer thee , I'm a Match for a Lord of a high Degree ; For my Birth and yours they not equal be , Therefore Keeper , forbear your Wooing . Keeper ] The Repulse it makes me sadly to grieve ; And true 'tis we all came from Adam and Eve , One loving Word to my Life is a Reprieve , Tho' I'm linked fast in Cupid's Prison . Lady ] O why should you say you're a prisoner to me , Oh hold , forbear keeper , for that may not be ; We both may have Matches fitter for each Degree ; Then forbear , and take this for and Answer . Keeper ] No , not for and Answer that I shall it take , And yet this Denial makes my Heart to ache , And I shall lay down my Life at a Stake , To obtain the Favour of my Lady . Lady ] It is a mere Madness your Life to lay down , What will People say , there's and end of a Clown That pass'd many Dangers , till Fortune did frown , And now dy'd a pretended Lover . Keeper ] The name of a Clown in my Heart I do scorn , Being nobly descended , and a Gentleman born ; Yet I am a Keeper that must be forlorn , Except you can love me , fair Lady . Lady ] Well , Keeper , I perceive thou hast a good Heart , Well thou art compacted in every Par If my Lord did know , We both would suffer Smart , My Father would be so offended . Keeper ] Lady , if you will consent to be my Bride , I will gird up my Sword and Buckler by my side , And then to the Church in private we'll ride , Where we will be marry'd , fair Lady . She then gave Consent , and away they did ride , the valiant young Keeper and his lovely Bride , Not fearing of Danger , Whatever betide ; For she was a valiant young Lady . Being marry'd , they return'd back speedily , And riding along her Father did espy ; Alack , quoth the Lady , one or both shall die . Fear Nothing , quoth the Keeper . The Lord he came posting so fast as he could high , And six lusty Gentlemen for Company : Quoth he to the Keeper , Villain thou shalt die , For deluding away my Daughter . Come on , quoth the Keeper , 'tis no Time to prattle , I see by your Swords you are design'd for Battle . With his Sword and Buckler he made them to rattle . The Lady held the Horse for the Keeper . He cut , and he hew'd them on the Place he did stand ; Oh then quoth the Lady , Bold Keeper , hold thy Hand . If you'll give your Daughter thirty Thousand in Land , You shan't die by the hand of the Keeper . Keeper , quoth the Lady , 'tis too small a Portion . Daughter , quoth the Lord , your Will shall be done ; I will love thy Husband , and thee ever own . Thus a Keeper gain'd a fair Lady . The Masterpiece of Love Songs . BEING A Dialogue betwixt a bold Keeper and a Lady gay , Who woo'd his Lord's Daughter , and carried the Day . But soon after Marriage was forced for to Fight With his Lord and six Gentlemen for his own Right ; He cut them and hew'd them , and paid them with Blows , And made them his Friends who before were his Foes To the Tune of , A Week after Easter . IT was a bold Keeper that chased a Deer , Of a stouter bold Spirit you never did hear , But he loved a Lady of Beauty most clear , And now you shall hear of their Wooing . Keeper ] O pity , fair Lady the Suit which I move , For I'm deep in Affection , and tossed in Love ; For you are the Lady , the Turtle and Dove Whereon I have cast my Affection . Lady ] O Keeper forbear , I shall thus answer thee , I'm a Match for a Lord of a high Degree ; For my Birth and yours they not equal be , Therefore Keeper , forbear your Wooing . Keeper ] The Repulse it makes me sadly to grieve ; And true 'tis we all came from Adam and Eve , One loving Word to my Life is a Reprieve , Tho' I'm linked fast in Cupid's Prison . Lady ] O why should you say you're a prisoner to me , Oh hold , forbear keeper , for that may not be ; We both may have Matches fitter for each Degree ; Then forbear , and take this for and Answer . Keeper ] No , not for and Answer that I shall it take , And yet this Denial makes my Heart to ache , And I shall lay down my Life at a Stake , To obtain the Favour of my Lady . Lady ] It is a mere Madness your Life to lay down , What will People say , there's and end of a Clown That pass'd many Dangers , till Fortune did frown , And now dy'd a pretended Lover . Keeper ] The name of a Clown in my Heart I do scorn , Being nobly descended , and a Gentleman born ; Yet I am a Keeper that must be forlorn , Except you can love me , fair Lady . Lady ] Well , Keeper , I perceive thou hast a good Heart , Well thou art compacted in every Par If my Lord did know , We both would suffer Smart , My Father would be so offended . Keeper ] Lady , if you will consent to be my Bride , I will gird up my Sword and Buckler by my side , And then to the Church in private we'll ride , Where we will be marry'd , fair Lady . She then gave Consent , and away they did ride , the valiant young Keeper and his lovely Bride , Not fearing of Danger , Whatever betide ; For she was a valiant young Lady . Being marry'd , they return'd back speedily , And riding along her Father did espy ; Alack , quoth the Lady , one or both shall die . Fear Nothing , quoth the Keeper . The Lord he came posting so fast as he could high , And six lusty Gentlemen for Company : Quoth he to the Keeper , Villain thou shalt die , For deluding away my Daughter . Come on , quoth the Keeper , 'tis no Time to prattle , I see by your Swords you are design'd for Battle . With his Sword and Buckler he made them to rattle . The Lady held the Horse for the Keeper . He cut , and he hew'd them on the Place he did stand ; Oh then quoth the Lady , Bold Keeper , hold thy Hand . If you'll give your Daughter thirty Thousand in Land , You shan't die by the hand of the Keeper . Keeper , quoth the Lady , 'tis too small a Portion . Daughter , quoth the Lord , your Will shall be done ; I will love thy Husband , and thee ever own . Thus a Keeper gain'd a fair Lady . 