BEDLAM SCHOOLMAN . Or , Some Lines made by and English Noble Man , that was in Bedlam . To its own proper Tune . Holow my Fancy , whither wilt thou go ? INTO a Melancholic Fancy , Out of my self ; Into the Vulcan dancy , All the World surveying , No where staying , Just like a Fairy Elff : Out o're the tops of highest Mountains Skipping , Out o're the Hills , the Trees , and Valleys tripping , Out o're the Ocean Seas , without and Oar or Shipping : Hollow my Fancy , whither wilt thou go ? Amid the misty Vapours , fain would I know , What does cause the Tapours ? Why the Clouds benight us ? And affright us ; while we travel here below ? Fain would I know what makes the roaring Thunder ? And what these lightnings be , that rend the clouds asunder ? And what these Comets are , on which we gaze and wonder ? Holow my Fancy , etc Fain would I know the reason , why the little Aunt , All the Summer season , Layeth up provision , Upon condition , to know no Winter's want ? And how these Huse-wives that are so good and painful , Do unto their Husbands prove so good and gainful ? And why these lazy Drons , to them do prove disdainful ? Hollow , etc Ships , Ships , I will descry you , amid the Main ; I will come and try you , What you are protecting , And projecting . what's your end and aim ? One goes abroad for Merchandise and Trading , Another stays to keep his Country from invading , A Third is coming home with rich & wealth of loading . Hollow , etc When I look before me , there do behold , There's none that sees or knows me ; All the World's a gadding , Running and madding , none does his station hold : He that is below invieth him that riseth , And he that is above , him thats below despises , So every Man his plot and counterplot devises . Hollow , etc Look , Look , what a bustling , here I do espy ; Each one another justling , Every one turmoiling , One another spoiling , as I did pass them by : One sitteth musing in a dumpish Passion , Another hangs his Head , because he's out of fashion , A Third is fully bent on sport and recreation : Hollow , etc Amid the foamy Ocean , fain would I know , What does cause the motion , And returning , In its journeying ? and does so seldom swerve ? And how these little Fish , that swim beneath Salt water Do never blind their Eye ? Me thinks it is a matter , And inch above the reach of Erra Pater ! Hollow , etc Fain would I be resolved , how things are done ? And where the Bull was calved , Of bloody Falaris ? And where the Taylor is , that works to the Man in the Moon ? Fain would I know how Cupid aims so rightly ? And how these little Fairies do dance and leap so lightly ? And where fair Cynthia makes her ambles nightly ? Hollow , etc In conceit like Phaeton , I'll mount Phoebus Chair ! Having ne're a Hat on , All my Hair's a burning , In my journeying , hurrying through the Air ! Fain would I hear his fiery Horses neighing ! And see how they on foamy Bitts are playing ! All the Stars and Planets I will be surveying ! Hollow , etc Oh from what ground of Nature , Does the Pelican , That self devouring creature , Prove so froward , And untoward , her Vitals for to strain ! And why the subtle Fox , while in death's wounds is lying , Does not lament his pangs , by howling and by crying ? And why the milk white Swan does sing when she's a dying . Hollow , etc Fain would I conclude this , at least make and essay , What similitude is , Why Fowls of a feather , Do flock and fly together ? and Lambs know Beasts of prey ? How Nature's Alchemists , these small laborious creatures , Acknowledge still a Prince in ordering their matters , And suffers none to live , who sloth loose their Fea [ tO ] ures ? Hollow , etc I'm rapt with admiration , when I do ruminate , Men of one Occupation , How each one calls him Brother , Yet each invieth other , and yet still intimate ; Yea , I admire to see , some Natives farther sundered , Then Antipodes to us , is it not to be wondered , In Myriads ye'll find of one Mind scarce and hundred ! Hollow , etc What multitude of notions does perturb my Pate , Considering the motions , How Heavens they are preserved ; And this World served , in Moisture , Light and Heat ! If one Spirit sits the outmost Circle turning , Or if one turns another continuing in journeying ; If Rapids circles motion be that which they call burning Hollow , etc Fain also would I prove this , by considering , What that which you call love is ? Whither it be a Folly , Or a Melancholy , or some Heroic thing ! Fain would I have it proved , by one whom Love hath wounded And fully upon one their desire hath founded , That nothing else could please them though the World were rounded ! Hollow , etc To know this World's Centre , Height , Depth , Breadth , and Length , Fain would I adventure , To search the hid attractions , Of Magnetic actions , And Adamantick strength ! Fain would I know if in some lofty Mountains , Where the Moon sojourns , if there be Trees or Fountain ? If there be Beasts of prey ? or yet be fields to hunt in ? Hollow , etc Fain would I have it tried , by Experiments , By none can be denied ; If in this bulk of Nature , There be voids less or greater , or all remains complete ? Fain would I know if Beasts have any Reason ? If Falcons killing Eagles , do commit a treason ? If fear of Winter's want , makes Swallows fly the season ? Hollow , etc Hollow my Fancy , hollow , stay thou at home with me , I can thee no longer follow ; Thou hast betray'd me , And bewray'd me ; it is too much for thee . Stay , stay at home with me , leave off thy lofty soaring , Stay thou at home with me , and on thy books be poring : For he that goes abroad lays little up in storing : thou's welcome home my Fancy , welcome home to me ! FINIS . BEDLAM SCHOOLMAN . Or , Some Lines made by and English Noble Man , that was in Bedlam . To its own proper Tune . Holow my Fancy , whither wilt thou go ? INTO a Melancholic Fancy , Out of my self ; Into the Vulcan dancy , All the World surveying , No where staying , Just like a Fairy Elff : Out o're the tops of highest Mountains Skipping , Out o're the Hills , the Trees , and Valleys tripping , Out o're the Ocean Seas , without and Oar or Shipping : Hollow my Fancy , whither wilt thou go ? Amid the misty Vapours , fain would I know , What does cause the Tapours ? Why the Clouds benight us ? And affright us ; while we travel here below ? Fain would I know what makes the roaring Thunder ? And what these lightnings be , that rend the clouds asunder ? And what these Comets are , on which we gaze and wonder ? Holow my Fancy , etc Fain would I know the reason , why the little Aunt , All the Summer season , Layeth up provision , Upon condition , to know no Winter's want ? And how these Huse-wives that are so good and painful , Do unto their Husbands prove so good and gainful ? And why these lazy Drons , to them do prove disdainful ? Hollow , etc Ships , Ships , I will descry you , amid the Main ; I will come and try you , What you are protecting , And projecting . what's your end and aim ? One goes abroad for Merchandise and Trading , Another stays to keep his Country from invading , A Third is coming home with rich & wealth of loading . Hollow , etc When I look before me , there do behold , There's none that sees or knows me ; All the World's a gadding , Running and madding , none does his station hold : He that is below invieth him that riseth , And he that is above , him thats below despises , So every Man his plot and counterplot devises . Hollow , etc Look , Look , what a bustling , here I do espy ; Each one another justling , Every one turmoiling , One another spoiling , as I did pass them by : One sitteth musing in a dumpish Passion , Another hangs his Head , because he's out of fashion , A Third is fully bent on sport and recreation : Hollow , etc Amid the foamy Ocean , fain would I know , What does cause the motion , And returning , In its journeying ? and does so seldom swerve ? And how these little Fish , that swim beneath Salt water Do never blind their Eye ? Me thinks it is a matter , And inch above the reach of Erra Pater ! Hollow , etc Fain would I be resolved , how things are done ? And where the Bull was calved , Of bloody Falaris ? And where the Taylor is , that works to the Man in the Moon ? Fain would I know how Cupid aims so rightly ? And how these little Fairies do dance and leap so lightly ? And where fair Cynthia makes her ambles nightly ? Hollow , etc In conceit like Phaeton , I'll mount Phoebus Chair ! Having ne're a Hat on , All my Hair's a burning , In my journeying , hurrying through the Air ! Fain would I hear his fiery Horses neighing ! And see how they on foamy Bitts are playing ! All the Stars and Planets I will be surveying ! Hollow , etc Oh from what ground of Nature , Does the Pelican , That self devouring creature , Prove so froward , And untoward , her Vitals for to strain ! And why the subtle Fox , while in death's wounds is lying , Does not lament his pangs , by howling and by crying ? And why the milk white Swan does sing when she's a dying . Hollow , etc Fain would I conclude this , at least make and essay , What similitude is , Why Fowls of a feather , Do flock and fly together ? and Lambs know Beasts of prey ? How Nature's Alchemists , these small laborious creatures , Acknowledge still a Prince in ordering their matters , And suffers none to live , who sloth loose their Fea [ tO ] ures ? Hollow , etc I'm rapt with admiration , when I do ruminate , Men of one Occupation , How each one calls him Brother , Yet each invieth other , and yet still intimate ; Yea , I admire to see , some Natives farther sundered , Then Antipodes to us , is it not to be wondered , In Myriads ye'll find of one Mind scarce and hundred ! Hollow , etc What multitude of notions does perturb my Pate , Considering the motions , How Heavens they are preserved ; And this World served , in Moisture , Light and Heat ! If one Spirit sits the outmost Circle turning , Or if one turns another continuing in journeying ; If Rapids circles motion be that which they call burning Hollow , etc Fain also would I prove this , by considering , What that which you call love is ? Whither it be a Folly , Or a Melancholy , or some Heroic thing ! Fain would I have it proved , by one whom Love hath wounded And fully upon one their desire hath founded , That nothing else could please them though the World were rounded ! Hollow , etc To know this World's Centre , Height , Depth , Breadth , and Length , Fain would I adventure , To search the hid attractions , Of Magnetic actions , And Adamantick strength ! Fain would I know if in some lofty Mountains , Where the Moon sojourns , if there be Trees or Fountain ? If there be Beasts of prey ? or yet be fields to hunt in ? Hollow , etc Fain would I have it tried , by Experiments , By none can be denied ; If in this bulk of Nature , There be voids less or greater , or all remains complete ? Fain would I know if Beasts have any Reason ? If Falcons killing Eagles , do commit a treason ? If fear of Winter's want , makes Swallows fly the season ? Hollow , etc Hollow my Fancy , hollow , stay thou at home with me , I can thee no longer follow ; Thou hast betray'd me , And bewray'd me ; it is too much for thee . Stay , stay at home with me , leave off thy lofty soaring , Stay thou at home with me , and on thy books be poring : For he that goes abroad lays little up in storing : thou's welcome home my Fancy , welcome home to me ! FINIS . 