King EDWARD the Fourth AND THE TANNER of TAMWORTH . IN summer time when leaves grow green , And birds were singing on the tree , King Edward would a hunting ride , Some pastime for to see : Our King he would a hunting ride , By eight o'clock of the Day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , Come riding on the way : A good russet coat the Tanner had on , Fast buttoned under his chin , And under him a good cow hide , And a mare of forty shilling . Now stand you here my good Lords all , Under this trusty tree , And I will grant to yonder fellow , To know from whence came he . God speed , God speed , then said our King , Thou art welcome , Good Fellow , quoth he Which is the way to Drayton Basset , I pray thee show to me . The ready way to Drayton Basset , From this place as thou dost stand , The next pair of gallows thou comest unto Thou must turn upon thy right-hand . That is not the way then said our King , The ready way I pray show me . Whither thou be a thief or true man , quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company : Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , I hold thee out of thy wit , For all this day I have ridden and gone , And I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton Basset said our king , No dainties we will lack ; We will have meat and drink of the best , And I will pay thy shot . God-a-mercy for nothing , said the Tanner , Thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine ; I have more groats and nobles in my purse , Then thou hast pence in thine . God save thy goods then said our king , I wish them well to thee : Be thief or true man , said the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , Of thee I stand in fear : The apparel thou wearest on thy back , May suit a good Lord so wear . I never stole them said our King , I swear to thee by the Rood , Thou art some ruffian of the country , Thou ridest i [ n ] the midst of the wood . What news dost thou hear then said our king I pray thee what news dost thou hear ? I hear no news answered the Tanner , But Cow Hides are very dear . Cow Hides ! Cow Hides ! then said our King , I marvel what they be ! Why thou art a fool , quoth the Tanner , Look I have one under me : Yet one thing now I would thee pray , So that thou wouldst not be strange , If thy mare be better than my steed . I pray thee let us change : But if thou needs with me will change , A change full well may be ; By the faith of my body , quoth the Tanner , I look to have some boot of thee . What wilt thou have , said our King , What boot dost thou ask on this ground , No pence nor halfpennies said the Tanner , But a Noble in Gold so round : Here's twenty groats then said our King , So well paid say you be . I like you better than I did before , I thought thou hadst ne'er a penny ; But if so be thou needs must change , As change thou may'st abide ; Tho' thou hast got Brock my mare , Thou shalt not have my Cow Hide . The Tanner took the good cow hide , That off the cow was bilt , And threw it upon the King's saddle , That was so fairly gil Now help me up , quoth the Tanner , Full quickly that I was gone ; And when I come home to Gillian my wife , She'll say I'm a gentleman : The King took the Tanner by the leg , He girted a fart so round : You're very homely then said the King , Were I aware I'd laid you on the ground : When the Tanner was in the King's saddle , Astonished then he was ; He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , Whither they were gold or brass ; But when the steed saw the black cow tail wag , And eke the black cow horn ; The steed began to run away , As if the Devil the Tanner had been ; Until he came into a nook , A little beside and oak ; The steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , His neck was almost broke . Take thy horse again with a vengeance he said With me he shall not abide ; It is no marvel , said the King , and laugh'd , He knew not your Cow Hide ; But if we needs must change , As change well now she might ; I swear to you plain if you have my mare , I look to have some boo What boot will you ask , quoth the Tanner ? What boot will you ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpennies said our King , But a Noble in gold so round : Here's twenty good groats , said the Tanner , I have twenty more of thine ; I have ten groats more in my purse , We'll drink five of them at the Vine . The King set a bugle horn to his mouth , And blew both loud and shrill : And five hundred Lords and Knights Came riding over the hill : Away with a vengeance , quoth the Tanner , With thee I'll no longer abide ; Thou art a strong thief , yonder are thy fellows : They'll steal away my cow hide . No , I protest then said our King , For so it may not be ; They be Lords of Drayton Basset , Come out of the North Country : But when they came before the King , Full low they fell on their knees ; The Taner had rather than a thousand pound He had been out of the company : A collar , a collar , then said the King , A collar then did he cry ; Then he would have given a thousand pound He had not been so nigh . A collar , a collar , quoth the Tanner , It's a thing will breed sorrow ; For after a collar comes a halter , And I shall be hang'd tomorrow . No , do not fear the King did say , For pastime thou hast shown to me ; No collar nor no haltar thou shalt have , But I will give thee a fee ; For Plumpton Park I will give thee , With tenements three beside ; Which is worth three hundred pounds a year , To maintain thy good cow hide . God-a-mercy , God-a-mercy quoth the Tanner For this good deed thou hast done . If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth , Thou shalt have clout leather for thy shoes Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow Lane , London . King EDWARD the Fourth AND THE TANNER of TAMWORTH . IN summer time when leaves grow green , And birds were singing on the tree , King Edward would a hunting ride , Some pastime for to see : Our King he would a hunting ride , By eight o'clock of the Day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , Come riding on the way : A good russet coat the Tanner had on , Fast buttoned under his chin , And under him a good cow hide , And a mare of forty shilling . Now stand you here my good Lords all , Under this trusty tree , And I will grant to yonder fellow , To know from whence came he . God speed , God speed , then said our King , Thou art welcome , Good Fellow , quoth he Which is the way to Drayton Basset , I pray thee show to me . The ready way to Drayton Basset , From this place as thou dost stand , The next pair of gallows thou comest unto Thou must turn upon thy right-hand . That is not the way then said our King , The ready way I pray show me . Whither thou be a thief or true man , quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company : Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , I hold thee out of thy wit , For all this day I have ridden and gone , And I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton Basset said our king , No dainties we will lack ; We will have meat and drink of the best , And I will pay thy shot . God-a-mercy for nothing , said the Tanner , Thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine ; I have more groats and nobles in my purse , Then thou hast pence in thine . God save thy goods then said our king , I wish them well to thee : Be thief or true man , said the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , Of thee I stand in fear : The apparel thou wearest on thy back , May suit a good Lord so wear . I never stole them said our King , I swear to thee by the Rood , Thou art some ruffian of the country , Thou ridest i [ n ] the midst of the wood . What news dost thou hear then said our king I pray thee what news dost thou hear ? I hear no news answered the Tanner , But Cow Hides are very dear . Cow Hides ! Cow Hides ! then said our King , I marvel what they be ! Why thou art a fool , quoth the Tanner , Look I have one under me : Yet one thing now I would thee pray , So that thou wouldst not be strange , If thy mare be better than my steed . I pray thee let us change : But if thou needs with me will change , A change full well may be ; By the faith of my body , quoth the Tanner , I look to have some boot of thee . What wilt thou have , said our King , What boot dost thou ask on this ground , No pence nor halfpennies said the Tanner , But a Noble in Gold so round : Here's twenty groats then said our King , So well paid say you be . I like you better than I did before , I thought thou hadst ne'er a penny ; But if so be thou needs must change , As change thou may'st abide ; Tho' thou hast got Brock my mare , Thou shalt not have my Cow Hide . The Tanner took the good cow hide , That off the cow was bilt , And threw it upon the King's saddle , That was so fairly gil Now help me up , quoth the Tanner , Full quickly that I was gone ; And when I come home to Gillian my wife , She'll say I'm a gentleman : The King took the Tanner by the leg , He girted a fart so round : You're very homely then said the King , Were I aware I'd laid you on the ground : When the Tanner was in the King's saddle , Astonished then he was ; He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , Whither they were gold or brass ; But when the steed saw the black cow tail wag , And eke the black cow horn ; The steed began to run away , As if the Devil the Tanner had been ; Until he came into a nook , A little beside and oak ; The steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , His neck was almost broke . Take thy horse again with a vengeance he said With me he shall not abide ; It is no marvel , said the King , and laugh'd , He knew not your Cow Hide ; But if we needs must change , As change well now she might ; I swear to you plain if you have my mare , I look to have some boo What boot will you ask , quoth the Tanner ? What boot will you ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpennies said our King , But a Noble in gold so round : Here's twenty good groats , said the Tanner , I have twenty more of thine ; I have ten groats more in my purse , We'll drink five of them at the Vine . The King set a bugle horn to his mouth , And blew both loud and shrill : And five hundred Lords and Knights Came riding over the hill : Away with a vengeance , quoth the Tanner , With thee I'll no longer abide ; Thou art a strong thief , yonder are thy fellows : They'll steal away my cow hide . No , I protest then said our King , For so it may not be ; They be Lords of Drayton Basset , Come out of the North Country : But when they came before the King , Full low they fell on their knees ; The Taner had rather than a thousand pound He had been out of the company : A collar , a collar , then said the King , A collar then did he cry ; Then he would have given a thousand pound He had not been so nigh . A collar , a collar , quoth the Tanner , It's a thing will breed sorrow ; For after a collar comes a halter , And I shall be hang'd tomorrow . No , do not fear the King did say , For pastime thou hast shown to me ; No collar nor no haltar thou shalt have , But I will give thee a fee ; For Plumpton Park I will give thee , With tenements three beside ; Which is worth three hundred pounds a year , To maintain thy good cow hide . God-a-mercy , God-a-mercy quoth the Tanner For this good deed thou hast done . If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth , Thou shalt have clout leather for thy shoes Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow Lane , London . 