And Excellent New Song OF The Unfortunate WHIG's . To the Tune of , The King enjoys his own again . [ 1 ] THe Whigs are but small , and of no good Raze , and are Belov'd by very few ; Old Tony broach'd his Tap in e'ry place ; to encourage all his Factious Crew : At some great Houses in this Town , The Whiggs of High Renown ; And all with a true Blue was their Stain ; For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 2 ] They all own Duty to their Lawful Prince , and Loyal Subject's should have been , But their Duty is worn out long since , by the Association seen : But these are the Whiggs , That have cut off some Legs , And fain would be at that Sport amain ; For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow ; Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 3 ] And yet they are the Sham-pretenders , and they swear they'll support our Laws ; These be the great Defenders of Ignoramus and the Old Cause : They'll defend the King , By Swearing of the Thing , These are the cursed Rogues in grain ; For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 4 ] The True Religion that shall down , which so along has wone the day , And Common-Prayer i'th Church of e'ry Town , if that the Whiggs could but bear the Sway : For Oats he does begin , Now for to bring them in , As when he came mumping from Spain ; For since it so , They have wrought their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 5 ] How all their Shamming Plots they would hide , yet they are Ignorant they say , When as Old Tony he was Try'd , and brought off with Ignoramus sway : Then Oats he was Dumb , And could not use his Tongue , This is the Shamming Ro --- in Grain ; For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 6 ] Then let all true Subject's Sing . and Damn the power of all those , That won't show Loyalty to their King , and assist him against his Whiggish Foes : Then in this our happy state , in spite of Traitors hate , We will all Loyal still remain ; For since it is so , They have wrought , their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 7 ] God preserve our Gracious King , with the Royal Consort of his Bed , And let all Loyal Subject's sing , that the Crown may remain on Charles's head : For we will drink his Health , In spite of Common-Wealth , And his Lawful Rights we will maintain , For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . FINIS . Printed for S. Maurel , in the Year ; 1682. And Excellent New Song OF The Unfortunate WHIG's . To the Tune of , The King enjoys his own again . [ 1 ] THe Whigs are but small , and of no good Raze , and are Belov'd by very few ; Old Tony broach'd his Tap in e'ry place ; to encourage all his Factious Crew : At some great Houses in this Town , The Whiggs of High Renown ; And all with a true Blue was their Stain ; For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 2 ] They all own Duty to their Lawful Prince , and Loyal Subject's should have been , But their Duty is worn out long since , by the Association seen : But these are the Whiggs , That have cut off some Legs , And fain would be at that Sport amain ; For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow ; Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 3 ] And yet they are the Sham-pretenders , and they swear they'll support our Laws ; These be the great Defenders of Ignoramus and the Old Cause : They'll defend the King , By Swearing of the Thing , These are the cursed Rogues in grain ; For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 4 ] The True Religion that shall down , which so along has wone the day , And Common-Prayer i'th Church of e'ry Town , if that the Whiggs could but bear the Sway : For Oats he does begin , Now for to bring them in , As when he came mumping from Spain ; For since it so , They have wrought their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 5 ] How all their Shamming Plots they would hide , yet they are Ignorant they say , When as Old Tony he was Try'd , and brought off with Ignoramus sway : Then Oats he was Dumb , And could not use his Tongue , This is the Shamming Ro --- in Grain ; For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 6 ] Then let all true Subject's Sing . and Damn the power of all those , That won't show Loyalty to their King , and assist him against his Whiggish Foes : Then in this our happy state , in spite of Traitors hate , We will all Loyal still remain ; For since it is so , They have wrought , their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . [ 7 ] God preserve our Gracious King , with the Royal Consort of his Bed , And let all Loyal Subject's sing , that the Crown may remain on Charles's head : For we will drink his Health , In spite of Common-Wealth , And his Lawful Rights we will maintain , For since it is so , They have wrought their overthrow , Old Tony will ne'r enjoy his own again . FINIS . Printed for S. Maurel , in the Year ; 1682. 