The Rarest Old BALLAD that ever was seen , Of the Blind Beggar's Daughter of Bethnal-Green IT is of a blind Beggar that long lost his sighed , He had a fair daughter of beauty most bright ; And many a gallant brave suitor had she , For none was so comely as pretty Bessey . And tho' she was of beauty most fair , Yet seeing she was but a beggar's heir , Of ancient housekeepers despised was she , Who came as suitors to pretty Bessey . Then in great sorrow fair Bessey did say , Good father and mother , let me go away , To seek my fortune where ever it be , Thus suit was then granted ot pretty Bessey . Thus Bessy that was of beauty most bright , Then clad in gray russet , and late in the night , From father and mother alone parted she , Who sighed and sobbed for pretty Bessey . She went until she came to Stratford-le-Bow , Then she knew not whither nor which way to go , With tears she lamented her hard destiny , So sad and so heavy was pretty Bessey . She kept on her journey until it was day , And went into Rumford upon the highway . And at the King's-Arms entertained was she , So fair and well favour'd was pretty Bessey . She had not been there one month to and end , But master and all were her friend , And every brave gallant that once did her see , Was straightway in love with pretty Bessey . Great gifts they did give her of silver and gold ; And in their songs her praises extol'd ? She by them was praised in the highest degree , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessey . The young men of Rumford in her had their joy She behav'd herself courteous , but never too coy ; And at her commandment still would they be , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessey . Four suitors at once unto her did go , And craved her favour , but still she said no : I would not have a gentleman to marry me . But still they honoured pretty Bessey . The first of them was a gallant brisk knight , Who came unto her disguis'd in theght , The second a gentlemen of good degree , Who wooed and sued for pretty Bessey . A merchant in London whose wealth was not small , He was the next suitor , and proper and tall ; Her master's own son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would die for pretty Bessey . If thou wilt marry me , then quoth the knight , I'll make thee a lady of joy and delight , My heart's so enthral'd with thy fair beauty , That soon I shall die for pretty Bessey . The gentleman said , Come wed with me , And as fine as a lady my Bessey shall be . My life is distracted , o ! hear me , quoth he . And grant me thy love , my pretty Bessey . Let me be thy husband , the merchant did say , Thou shalt live in London both gallant and gay , My ship shall bring home rich jewelst for thee , And I will for ever love pretty Bessey . Then Bessey she sigh'd , and thus she did say , My father and mother I mean to obey ; First gain their consent , and be faithful to me , And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessey . Then Bessey she sigh'd , and thus she did say , My father and mother I mean to obey ; First gain their consent , and be faithful to me , And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessey . To every one this answer she made , Hereupon they each unto her said . This thing to peaform we now do agree , But who is the father of pretty Bessey . My father , said she , is plain to be seen , The silly blind Beggar of Bednal Green ; That often sits begging for charity , Yet he is the father of pretty Bessey . His marks and tokens are known very well , He always is led by a dog and a bell A silly poor man , God knoweth , is he , Yet he is the father of pretty Bessey . Nay , then , said the merchant , she is not for me And , said the innkeeper , my bride she sha'n't be I loath , quoth be gentleman , a beggar's degree , And therefore adieu my pretty Bessey . Why then , quoth the knight , hap better or worse I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse , For beauty is beauty in every degree , Then welcome to me my pretty Bessey . Now with thee unto thy father I'll go , No , soft , quoth his kinsman , it must not be so , A beggar's daughter no lady must be . Then now bid adieu to pretty Bessey . And soon after this by break of the day , The knight road to Rumford and stole Bessey away , The young men of Rumford so thick as might be , Road after to fetch again pretty Bessey As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Uniil they were come near to Bednal Green : And as the knight alighted must courteously , They fought again him for pretty Bessey , But rescue came presently over the plain , Or else the knight for his love had been slave , The fray being ended , then strait he did see His kinsman come railing against pretty Bessey . Than , said the blind beggar , altho' I be poor , Rail not thus against my child at my own door ; Tho' she be not deck'd in velvet and pearl , Yet I will drop angels with you for my girl . And then if my gold will not better her birth , And equal the gold you drop on the earth , Then neither rail not grudge you to see The blind beggar's daughter a lady to be . But first I will he [ are ] , and have it well known , That the gold you drop be all your own . With that he answer'd Contented I be . Then there's , quoth the beggar , for pretty Bessey . With that and angel he cast on the ground , And dropped in angels to three thousand pounds ; And oftentimes it proved most plain , For the gentleman's one the beggar dropped twain . So that the place whereon they did fit With gold was covered every whit . The gentleman then having dropped all his store , Said , Beggar , hold , I have no more . Thou hast performed thy promise right , Then marry the girl , quoth he to the knight . And here , quoth the beggar , I will throw down One hundred pounds more to buy her a gown . The gentleman who this treasure had seen Admired the beggar of Bethnal-Green . And those that were her suitors before , Even for anger their flesh they tore . Thus was their Bessey a match for a knight , And made a lady in others' despite , Sure a fairer lady there never was seen , Than the blind beggar's daughter of Bethnal-Gr [ een ] But of her sumptuous marriage and feast , And what brave nobles were thither pressed . The second part must set forth in sighed , With extreme pleasure and wished delight , With a blind beggar's daughter so fair and bright [ . ] That married was unto a young Knight , All the discourse thereof you may see , But now comes the wedding of pretty Bessey . PART . II WITHIN a sumptuous place most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have ; This wedding wasikept most sumptuously , And all for the love of pretty Bessey . All kinds of dainties most delicate sweet Were bought for the banquet , as was thought meet , Partridge and plover , and venison most free , Against the wedding of pretty Bessey . This wedding thro' England was spread by report , So that great numbers did thither resort , Of nobles and gentry in each degree , All for the fame of pretty Bessey . To [ c ] hurch then went this handsome young knight His bride went after like a lady bright . Such a troop of ladies as never was seen , Then went with Bessey of Bethnal-Green . This wedding was solemnized , With music performed by handsome young men . The nobles and gentry sat down at that tide , Each one admiring the handsome bride . Now after the sumptuous dinner was done . To talk and to reason vast numbers began , Of the blind beggar's daughter so bright , And what with his daughter he gave to the knight . Then spoke the nobles , Much marvel we The jolly blind beggar that here we can't see . My lords , quoth the bride , My father's so base , He's loath with his presence these states to debase . The praise of a woman in question to bring Before her own face is a flattering thing . We think thy father's baseness , quoth they , Might by thy baauty be quite thrown away . They had no sooner these pleasant words spoke , But in come the beggar with a silken cloak : A velvet cap and a feather had he , And now a musician for sooth he would be . And being led in from catching of harm , He touched the strings which made such a charm , And said , Please to hear some music from me . A song I must sing of pretty Bessey . With that his lute he twang'd straightway , And thereon began most sweetly to play : So after a lesson was play'd two or three , He strain'd out his song most delicately . A beggar's daughter did live on the green , Who for her beauty might well be a queen . For The Rarest Old BALLAD that ever was seen , Of the Blind Beggar's Daughter of Bethnal-Green IT is of a blind Beggar that long lost his sighed , He had a fair daughter of beauty most bright ; And many a gallant brave suitor had she , For none was so comely as pretty Bessey . And tho' she was of beauty most fair , Yet seeing she was but a beggar's heir , Of ancient housekeepers despised was she , Who came as suitors to pretty Bessey . Then in great sorrow fair Bessey did say , Good father and mother , let me go away , To seek my fortune where ever it be , Thus suit was then granted ot pretty Bessey . Thus Bessy that was of beauty most bright , Then clad in gray russet , and late in the night , From father and mother alone parted she , Who sighed and sobbed for pretty Bessey . She went until she came to Stratford-le-Bow , Then she knew not whither nor which way to go , With tears she lamented her hard destiny , So sad and so heavy was pretty Bessey . She kept on her journey until it was day , And went into Rumford upon the highway . And at the King's-Arms entertained was she , So fair and well favour'd was pretty Bessey . She had not been there one month to and end , But master and all were her friend , And every brave gallant that once did her see , Was straightway in love with pretty Bessey . Great gifts they did give her of silver and gold ; And in their songs her praises extol'd ? She by them was praised in the highest degree , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessey . The young men of Rumford in her had their joy She behav'd herself courteous , but never too coy ; And at her commandment still would they be , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessey . Four suitors at once unto her did go , And craved her favour , but still she said no : I would not have a gentleman to marry me . But still they honoured pretty Bessey . The first of them was a gallant brisk knight , Who came unto her disguis'd in theght , The second a gentlemen of good degree , Who wooed and sued for pretty Bessey . A merchant in London whose wealth was not small , He was the next suitor , and proper and tall ; Her master's own son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would die for pretty Bessey . If thou wilt marry me , then quoth the knight , I'll make thee a lady of joy and delight , My heart's so enthral'd with thy fair beauty , That soon I shall die for pretty Bessey . The gentleman said , Come wed with me , And as fine as a lady my Bessey shall be . My life is distracted , o ! hear me , quoth he . And grant me thy love , my pretty Bessey . Let me be thy husband , the merchant did say , Thou shalt live in London both gallant and gay , My ship shall bring home rich jewelst for thee , And I will for ever love pretty Bessey . Then Bessey she sigh'd , and thus she did say , My father and mother I mean to obey ; First gain their consent , and be faithful to me , And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessey . Then Bessey she sigh'd , and thus she did say , My father and mother I mean to obey ; First gain their consent , and be faithful to me , And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessey . To every one this answer she made , Hereupon they each unto her said . This thing to peaform we now do agree , But who is the father of pretty Bessey . My father , said she , is plain to be seen , The silly blind Beggar of Bednal Green ; That often sits begging for charity , Yet he is the father of pretty Bessey . His marks and tokens are known very well , He always is led by a dog and a bell A silly poor man , God knoweth , is he , Yet he is the father of pretty Bessey . Nay , then , said the merchant , she is not for me And , said the innkeeper , my bride she sha'n't be I loath , quoth be gentleman , a beggar's degree , And therefore adieu my pretty Bessey . Why then , quoth the knight , hap better or worse I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse , For beauty is beauty in every degree , Then welcome to me my pretty Bessey . Now with thee unto thy father I'll go , No , soft , quoth his kinsman , it must not be so , A beggar's daughter no lady must be . Then now bid adieu to pretty Bessey . And soon after this by break of the day , The knight road to Rumford and stole Bessey away , The young men of Rumford so thick as might be , Road after to fetch again pretty Bessey As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Uniil they were come near to Bednal Green : And as the knight alighted must courteously , They fought again him for pretty Bessey , But rescue came presently over the plain , Or else the knight for his love had been slave , The fray being ended , then strait he did see His kinsman come railing against pretty Bessey . Than , said the blind beggar , altho' I be poor , Rail not thus against my child at my own door ; Tho' she be not deck'd in velvet and pearl , Yet I will drop angels with you for my girl . And then if my gold will not better her birth , And equal the gold you drop on the earth , Then neither rail not grudge you to see The blind beggar's daughter a lady to be . But first I will he [ are ] , and have it well known , That the gold you drop be all your own . With that he answer'd Contented I be . Then there's , quoth the beggar , for pretty Bessey . With that and angel he cast on the ground , And dropped in angels to three thousand pounds ; And oftentimes it proved most plain , For the gentleman's one the beggar dropped twain . So that the place whereon they did fit With gold was covered every whit . The gentleman then having dropped all his store , Said , Beggar , hold , I have no more . Thou hast performed thy promise right , Then marry the girl , quoth he to the knight . And here , quoth the beggar , I will throw down One hundred pounds more to buy her a gown . The gentleman who this treasure had seen Admired the beggar of Bethnal-Green . And those that were her suitors before , Even for anger their flesh they tore . Thus was their Bessey a match for a knight , And made a lady in others' despite , Sure a fairer lady there never was seen , Than the blind beggar's daughter of Bethnal-Gr [ een ] But of her sumptuous marriage and feast , And what brave nobles were thither pressed . The second part must set forth in sighed , With extreme pleasure and wished delight , With a blind beggar's daughter so fair and bright [ . ] That married was unto a young Knight , All the discourse thereof you may see , But now comes the wedding of pretty Bessey . PART . II WITHIN a sumptuous place most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have ; This wedding wasikept most sumptuously , And all for the love of pretty Bessey . All kinds of dainties most delicate sweet Were bought for the banquet , as was thought meet , Partridge and plover , and venison most free , Against the wedding of pretty Bessey . This wedding thro' England was spread by report , So that great numbers did thither resort , Of nobles and gentry in each degree , All for the fame of pretty Bessey . To [ c ] hurch then went this handsome young knight His bride went after like a lady bright . Such a troop of ladies as never was seen , Then went with Bessey of Bethnal-Green . This wedding was solemnized , With music performed by handsome young men . The nobles and gentry sat down at that tide , Each one admiring the handsome bride . Now after the sumptuous dinner was done . To talk and to reason vast numbers began , Of the blind beggar's daughter so bright , And what with his daughter he gave to the knight . Then spoke the nobles , Much marvel we The jolly blind beggar that here we can't see . My lords , quoth the bride , My father's so base , He's loath with his presence these states to debase . The praise of a woman in question to bring Before her own face is a flattering thing . We think thy father's baseness , quoth they , Might by thy baauty be quite thrown away . They had no sooner these pleasant words spoke , But in come the beggar with a silken cloak : A velvet cap and a feather had he , And now a musician for sooth he would be . And being led in from catching of harm , He touched the strings which made such a charm , And said , Please to hear some music from me . A song I must sing of pretty Bessey . With that his lute he twang'd straightway , And thereon began most sweetly to play : So after a lesson was play'd two or three , He strain'd out his song most delicately . A beggar's daughter did live on the green , Who for her beauty might well be a queen . For a brisk jolly lass and handsome was she , And she was called pretty Bessey . Her father had no goods nor no land , But begg'd for a penny each day with his hand . And tho' in marriage he gave thousands three , Yet still he has something for pretty Bessey . Now if any one her birth does shine , Her fathr is ready with might and main ; To prove she is come of a noble degree , Therefore let none flout my pretty Bessey . Hereupon the lords and gentlemen round , With a great laughter were ready to found , At last said the lords , Too plain 'tis to see , Both bride and bridegroom are beholden to thee With that the fair bride blushing did rise , And the clear water did stands in her eyes ; Pardon my father , dear nobles , said she Since thro' blind affection he doteth on me , If this be thy father , the nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this happy day ; Yet by his countenance well we may see , His Birth with his fortune does not agree : Now prithee , blind beggar , unto us bewray , And look that the truth unto us you say . Your birth and your parentage what it may be , For the love that thou bearest to pretty Bessey . Now give me leave , the gentles each one , A song for to sing , and then I'll be gone . Now if I don't win your good report , Pray do not give me a groat for my sport . When first our king his fame to advance , Sought for his title in delicate France : In many places great perils pass'd he , But then was not born my pretty Bessey . Now in these wars went forth to fight Many a brave lord , duke , and knight ; And with them young Monford of courage so free But then was not born my pretty Bessey . And there did Monford , with a knock o'th' face , Loose both his eyes in a very short space , His life had also been gone with his sighed , Had not a young woman come forth in the night . Among the slave men her fancy to move , To search for her true and only love ; Who seeing young Monford there gasping to lie , Did save his life out of mere charity . And then all our victuals in beggars attire , At the hands of good Christians we did desire ; At last in England , as now it is seen , We came , and remained in Bethnal-Green . And thus we have lived in fortune's despite . Tho' poor , yet contented with humble delight ; Now in my old years a comfort to be , God sent me a daughter call'd pretty Bessey . And thus , brave nobles . my song I do end , Hoping the same not one to offend : Full forty long winter's thus have I been The silly poor beggar of Bethnal-Green . Now when the company every one , Herd this strange tale unto them shown , They were all amazed , as well they might be , Both at the blind beggar and pretty Bessey . With that the fair maiden they did embrace , Saying , Yond are come of a comely raze : Thy father likewise of a noble degree , And thou art right worthy a lady to be . Thus was the feast ended in joy and delight ; A happy bridegroom was made the knight , Who lived in joy and felicity , All with his fair lady , the pretty Bessey Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . sta brisk jolly lass and handsome was she , And she was called pretty Bessey . Her father had no goods nor no land , But begg'd for a penny each day with his hand . And tho' in marriage he gave thousands three , Yet still he has something for pretty Bessey . Now if any one her birth does shine , Her fathr is ready with might and main ; To prove she is come of a noble degree , Therefore let none flout my pretty Bessey . Hereupon the lords and gentlemen round , With a great laughter were ready to found , At last said the lords , Too plain 'tis to see , Both bride and bridegroom are beholden to thee With that the fair bride blushing did rise , And the clear water did stands in her eyes ; Pardon my father , dear nobles , said she Since thro' blind affection he doteth on me , If this be thy father , the nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this happy day ; Yet by his countenance well we may see , His Birth with his fortune does not agree : Now prithee , blind beggar , unto us bewray , And look that the truth unto us you say . Your birth and your parentage what it may be , For the love that thou bearest to pretty Bessey . Now give me leave , the gentles each one , A song for to sing , and then I'll be gone . Now if I don't win your good report , Pray do not give me a groat for my sport . When first our king his fame to advance , Sought for his title in delicate France : In many places great perils pass'd he , But then was not born my pretty Bessey . Now in these wars went forth to fight Many a brave lord , duke , and knight ; And with them young Monford of courage so free But then was not born my pretty Bessey . And there did Monford , with a knock o'th' face , Loose both his eyes in a very short space , His life had also been gone with his sighed , Had not a young woman come forth in the night . Among the slave men her fancy to move , To search for her true and only love ; Who seeing young Monford there gasping to lie , Did save his life out of mere charity . And then all our victuals in beggars attire , At the hands of good Christians we did desire ; At last in England , as now it is seen , We came , and remained in Bethnal-Green . And thus we have lived in fortune's despite . Tho' poor , yet contented with humble delight ; Now in my old years a comfort to be , God sent me a daughter call'd pretty Bessey . And thus , brave nobles . my song I do end , Hoping the same not one to offend : Full forty long winter's thus have I been The silly poor beggar of Bethnal-Green . Now when the company every one , Herd this strange tale unto them shown , They were all amazed , as well they might be , Both at the blind beggar and pretty Bessey . With that the fair maiden they did embrace , Saying , Yond are come of a comely raze : Thy father likewise of a noble degree , And thou art right worthy a lady to be . Thus was the feast ended in joy and delight ; A happy bridegroom was made the knight , Who lived in joy and felicity , All with his fair lady , the pretty Bessey Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . st 