A NEW BALLAD [ WORSER ] To and Old Tune . Tom of Bedlam . MAke room for and honest Redcoat , ( And that you'll say's a wonder ) The Gun , and the Blade , Are his Tools , -- and his Trade , Is for Pay , to Kill , and Plunder . Then away with the Laws , And the Good old Cause , Ne'r talk o' the Rump , or the Charter , 'Tis the Cash does the Feat , All the rest's but a Cheat , Without That there's no Faith , nor Quarter . This the Mark of our Coin , GOD WITH US , And the Grace of the Lord goes along with't , When the Georges are flown , Then the Cause goes down , For the Lord is departed from it . Then away , etc For Room , or for Geneva , For the Table , or the Altar , This spawn of a Vote , He cares not a Groat -- For the Pence , hee's your Dog in a Halter . Then away , etc Tho' the Name of King , or Bishop , to Nostrils pure may be Loathsome , Yet many there are , That agree with the Mayor , That their lands are wondrous toothsome . Then away , etc When our Master's are Poor , we Leave 'em , 'Tis the Golden Calf we bow too : We Kill , and we slay , Not for Conscience , but Pay ; Give us That , we'll fight for you too . Then away , etc 'Twas That first turn'd the King out ; The Lords , nex then , the Commons : 'Twas that kept up Noll , Till the Devil fetch'd his Soul ; And then it set the Bum on 's . Then away , etc Drunken Dick was a Lame Protector , And Fleetwood a Backslider : These we serv'd as the rest , But the City's the Beast That will never cast her Rider . Then away , etc When the Mayor holds the Stirrup , And the Shreeves cry , God save your Honours : Then , 'tis but a Jump , And up goes the Rump , That will spur to the Devil upon us . Then away , etc And now for fling at your Thimbles , Your Bodkins , Rings , and Whistles , In truck for your Toys , We'll fit you with Boys : ( 'Tis the Doctrine of Hugh's Epistle Then away , etc When your Plate is gone , and your Jew [ ? ] You must be next entreated , To part with your Bags , And strip you to Rags , And yet not think y'are cheated . Then away , etc The truth is , the Town deserves it ; 'Tis a Brainless , Heartless Monster : At a Clubb they may Bawl , Or Declare at their Hall , And yet at a Push not one stir . Then away , etc Sir Arthur vowed he'll treat 'em , Far worse than the men of Chester : He's Bold , now they're Cow'd , But he was nothing so Loud When he lay in the ditch at Lester . Then away , etc The Lord hath left John Lambert , And the Spirit , Feak's Anointed , But why o Lord , Hast thou sheathed thy Sword ? Lo , thy Saints are disappointed . Then away , etc Tho' Sir Henry be departed : Sir John makes good the place now , And to help out the work Of the Glorious Kirk , Our Brothers march apace too . Then away , etc While Divines , and Statesmen wrangle , Let the Rump-ridden Nation bite on't There are none but we That are sure to go free , For the Souldier's still in the right oh [ ? ] Then away , etc If our Master's w'ont supply us , With Money , Food and Clothing : Let the State look to't , We'll find one that will do't , Let him Live , -- we'll not damn [ ? ] Then away with the Laws , And the Good old Cause , Ne'r talk o'the Rump , or the Charter , 'Tis the Cash does the feat , All the rest's but a Cheat , Without That their's no Faith , nor Quart [ er ] FINIS . A NEW BALLAD [ WORSER ] To and Old Tune . Tom of Bedlam . MAke room for and honest Redcoat , ( And that you'll say's a wonder ) The Gun , and the Blade , Are his Tools , -- and his Trade , Is for Pay , to Kill , and Plunder . Then away with the Laws , And the Good old Cause , Ne'r talk o' the Rump , or the Charter , 'Tis the Cash does the Feat , All the rest's but a Cheat , Without That there's no Faith , nor Quarter . This the Mark of our Coin , GOD WITH US , And the Grace of the Lord goes along with't , When the Georges are flown , Then the Cause goes down , For the Lord is departed from it . Then away , etc For Room , or for Geneva , For the Table , or the Altar , This spawn of a Vote , He cares not a Groat -- For the Pence , hee's your Dog in a Halter . Then away , etc Tho' the Name of King , or Bishop , to Nostrils pure may be Loathsome , Yet many there are , That agree with the Mayor , That their lands are wondrous toothsome . Then away , etc When our Master's are Poor , we Leave 'em , 'Tis the Golden Calf we bow too : We Kill , and we slay , Not for Conscience , but Pay ; Give us That , we'll fight for you too . Then away , etc 'Twas That first turn'd the King out ; The Lords , nex then , the Commons : 'Twas that kept up Noll , Till the Devil fetch'd his Soul ; And then it set the Bum on 's . Then away , etc Drunken Dick was a Lame Protector , And Fleetwood a Backslider : These we serv'd as the rest , But the City's the Beast That will never cast her Rider . Then away , etc When the Mayor holds the Stirrup , And the Shreeves cry , God save your Honours : Then , 'tis but a Jump , And up goes the Rump , That will spur to the Devil upon us . Then away , etc And now for fling at your Thimbles , Your Bodkins , Rings , and Whistles , In truck for your Toys , We'll fit you with Boys : ( 'Tis the Doctrine of Hugh's Epistle Then away , etc When your Plate is gone , and your Jew [ ? ] You must be next entreated , To part with your Bags , And strip you to Rags , And yet not think y'are cheated . Then away , etc The truth is , the Town deserves it ; 'Tis a Brainless , Heartless Monster : At a Clubb they may Bawl , Or Declare at their Hall , And yet at a Push not one stir . Then away , etc Sir Arthur vowed he'll treat 'em , Far worse than the men of Chester : He's Bold , now they're Cow'd , But he was nothing so Loud When he lay in the ditch at Lester . Then away , etc The Lord hath left John Lambert , And the Spirit , Feak's Anointed , But why o Lord , Hast thou sheathed thy Sword ? Lo , thy Saints are disappointed . Then away , etc Tho' Sir Henry be departed : Sir John makes good the place now , And to help out the work Of the Glorious Kirk , Our Brothers march apace too . Then away , etc While Divines , and Statesmen wrangle , Let the Rump-ridden Nation bite on't There are none but we That are sure to go free , For the Souldier's still in the right oh [ ? ] Then away , etc If our Master's w'ont supply us , With Money , Food and Clothing : Let the State look to't , We'll find one that will do't , Let him Live , -- we'll not damn [ ? ] Then away with the Laws , And the Good old Cause , Ne'r talk o'the Rump , or the Charter , 'Tis the Cash does the feat , All the rest's but a Cheat , Without That their's no Faith , nor Quart [ er ] FINIS . 