King LEAR and his Three Daughters . KING Lear once ruled in this land , With princely pride and peace : And had all things with content That might his joys increase : among those things that nature gave , Three daughters fair had he , So princely seeming beautiful , As fairer could not be . So on a time it pleas'd the king , A question thus to move : Which of his daughters to his grace Could show the dearest love . For to my age you bring content ; Quoth he , then let me hear Which of you three in plighted troth The kindest will appear . To this the eldest first began , Dear father mild , quoth she , Before your face to do you good My blood shall render'd be : And for your sake my bleeding heart Shall there be cut in twain , 'Ere that I see your reverend age The smallest grief sustain . And so will I , the second said , Dear father for your sake ; The worst of all extremities For you I'll undertake . And serve your highness night and day , With diligent [ ce ] and love ; The s [ we ] et content and pure delight , Discomfort may remove , In doing so , you glad my soul , The aged father reply'd . But what sayist thou , my youngest girl , How stands thy love ally'd ! My love , quoth young Cordelia , then , Which to your grace I owe ; Shall be the duty of a child , And that is all I shall bestow . And wilt thou show no more , said he , Than does thy duty bind ? I well perceive thy love is small , When as no more we find . Henceforth I banish thee my court , Thou art no child of mine : Nor any part of this my realm , By favour shall be thine . Thy eldest sister offer more Than well I can demand ; To whom I equally bestow My kingdom and my land . My pompous state and all my goods That lovingly I may With those thy sisters be mantain'd , Until my dying day . Thus flattering speeches wone renown , By these two sisters here : The third had causeless banishment . Yet was her love most dear . For poor Cordelia patiently Went wandering up and down , Uphel'd , unpity'd gentle maid , Thro' many and English town . Until at last in famous France , She gentle fortune found : Tho' poor and bore , yet she was deem'd The fairest on the ground , Where when the King her virtue herd , And this fair lady seen . With full consent of all the court , He made her his wife and queen . Her father , old king Lear , this while With his two daughters stayed , Forgetful of their promis'd loves . Full soon the same deny'd . And living in Queen Regan's court , The eldest of the twain , She took from him his chiefest means , And most of all his train , But whereas twenty men were wont To wait with bent knee ; She gave allowance unto ten , And after scarce to three . Nay , one she thought to much for him So she took all away In hope's that in her court , good king ! He would no longer stay . Am I rewarded thus , said he , For giving all I have Unto children ? and to beg For what I want or crave . I'll go unto my Goneril , My second child , I know Will be more kind and beautiful , And will relieve my woe . Full fast he hies unto her court . Where when she hears his moan , Return'd him answer that she griev'd That all his means were gone . But no ways could relieve his wants , Yet if that he would stay , Within her kitchen , he might have What scullions gave away . When he had herd with bitter tears , He made this answer then , In what I did let me be made Examples to all men . I will return again , said he , Unto my Regan court ; She will not use me thus , I hope , But in a kinder sort . Where when he came she gave command To drive him thence away : When he was well within my court , Quoth she , he could not stay . Then back again to Goneril , The woeful king did high : That in her kitchen he might have , What scullions did set by . But there of that he was deny'd , Which he had promis'd late ; For once refusing he should not Come after to her gate . Thus 'twixt his daughter's , for relief , He wander'd up and down , Being glad to feed on beggar's food , That lately wore a crown . And calling to remembrance then His youngest daughter's words , Who said the duty of a child Was all that love affords ; But doubting to repair to her , Whom he had banish'd so , Grew frantic mad , and in his mind , He boar the wounds of woe . Which made him rend his milk white locks , And tresses from his head : And all with blood bestain'd his cheeks , With age and honour spread . To hills and woods and watery founts He made his hourly moan , To hills and woods and senseless things , Did seem to sighs and groan . Even thus press'd with discontent He passed o'er to France . In hope's from kind Cordelia there , To find some gentler chance . Most virtuous dame ! which when she herd Of this her father's grief , As in duty bound , she quickly sent Him comfort and relief . And by a train of noble peers , In brave and gallant sort , She gave in charge he should be brought To Againipus's court ; Whose royal king , whose noble mind , So freely gave consent To muster up his knights at arms , To fame and courage bent . And so to England came with speed , To repossess king Lear ; And drive his daughters from their thrones By his Cordalia dear . Where she , true hearted noble queen , Was in the battle slave ; Yet he , good king , in his old days Possess'd his crown again . But when he herd of Cordelia's death , Who dy'd indeed for love Of her dear father in whose cause She did the battle move ; He swooning fell upon her breast From whence he never parted ; But on her bosom left his life , That was so truly hearted . The Lords and Nobles when they saw The end of these events , The other sisters unto death They doomed by consents . And being dead their crowns they left Unto the next of kin . Thus have you seen the fallen of pride , And disobedient since . Printed and Sold by R. Marshal , in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow Lane , London . King LEAR and his Three Daughters . KING Lear once ruled in this land , With princely pride and peace : And had all things with content That might his joys increase : among those things that nature gave , Three daughters fair had he , So princely seeming beautiful , As fairer could not be . So on a time it pleas'd the king , A question thus to move : Which of his daughters to his grace Could show the dearest love . For to my age you bring content ; Quoth he , then let me hear Which of you three in plighted troth The kindest will appear . To this the eldest first began , Dear father mild , quoth she , Before your face to do you good My blood shall render'd be : And for your sake my bleeding heart Shall there be cut in twain , 'Ere that I see your reverend age The smallest grief sustain . And so will I , the second said , Dear father for your sake ; The worst of all extremities For you I'll undertake . And serve your highness night and day , With diligent [ ce ] and love ; The s [ we ] et content and pure delight , Discomfort may remove , In doing so , you glad my soul , The aged father reply'd . But what sayist thou , my youngest girl , How stands thy love ally'd ! My love , quoth young Cordelia , then , Which to your grace I owe ; Shall be the duty of a child , And that is all I shall bestow . And wilt thou show no more , said he , Than does thy duty bind ? I well perceive thy love is small , When as no more we find . Henceforth I banish thee my court , Thou art no child of mine : Nor any part of this my realm , By favour shall be thine . Thy eldest sister offer more Than well I can demand ; To whom I equally bestow My kingdom and my land . My pompous state and all my goods That lovingly I may With those thy sisters be mantain'd , Until my dying day . Thus flattering speeches wone renown , By these two sisters here : The third had causeless banishment . Yet was her love most dear . For poor Cordelia patiently Went wandering up and down , Uphel'd , unpity'd gentle maid , Thro' many and English town . Until at last in famous France , She gentle fortune found : Tho' poor and bore , yet she was deem'd The fairest on the ground , Where when the King her virtue herd , And this fair lady seen . With full consent of all the court , He made her his wife and queen . Her father , old king Lear , this while With his two daughters stayed , Forgetful of their promis'd loves . Full soon the same deny'd . And living in Queen Regan's court , The eldest of the twain , She took from him his chiefest means , And most of all his train , But whereas twenty men were wont To wait with bent knee ; She gave allowance unto ten , And after scarce to three . Nay , one she thought to much for him So she took all away In hope's that in her court , good king ! He would no longer stay . Am I rewarded thus , said he , For giving all I have Unto children ? and to beg For what I want or crave . I'll go unto my Goneril , My second child , I know Will be more kind and beautiful , And will relieve my woe . Full fast he hies unto her court . Where when she hears his moan , Return'd him answer that she griev'd That all his means were gone . But no ways could relieve his wants , Yet if that he would stay , Within her kitchen , he might have What scullions gave away . When he had herd with bitter tears , He made this answer then , In what I did let me be made Examples to all men . I will return again , said he , Unto my Regan court ; She will not use me thus , I hope , But in a kinder sort . Where when he came she gave command To drive him thence away : When he was well within my court , Quoth she , he could not stay . Then back again to Goneril , The woeful king did high : That in her kitchen he might have , What scullions did set by . But there of that he was deny'd , Which he had promis'd late ; For once refusing he should not Come after to her gate . Thus 'twixt his daughter's , for relief , He wander'd up and down , Being glad to feed on beggar's food , That lately wore a crown . And calling to remembrance then His youngest daughter's words , Who said the duty of a child Was all that love affords ; But doubting to repair to her , Whom he had banish'd so , Grew frantic mad , and in his mind , He boar the wounds of woe . Which made him rend his milk white locks , And tresses from his head : And all with blood bestain'd his cheeks , With age and honour spread . To hills and woods and watery founts He made his hourly moan , To hills and woods and senseless things , Did seem to sighs and groan . Even thus press'd with discontent He passed o'er to France . In hope's from kind Cordelia there , To find some gentler chance . Most virtuous dame ! which when she herd Of this her father's grief , As in duty bound , she quickly sent Him comfort and relief . And by a train of noble peers , In brave and gallant sort , She gave in charge he should be brought To Againipus's court ; Whose royal king , whose noble mind , So freely gave consent To muster up his knights at arms , To fame and courage bent . And so to England came with speed , To repossess king Lear ; And drive his daughters from their thrones By his Cordalia dear . Where she , true hearted noble queen , Was in the battle slave ; Yet he , good king , in his old days Possess'd his crown again . But when he herd of Cordelia's death , Who dy'd indeed for love Of her dear father in whose cause She did the battle move ; He swooning fell upon her breast From whence he never parted ; But on her bosom left his life , That was so truly hearted . The Lords and Nobles when they saw The end of these events , The other sisters unto death They doomed by consents . And being dead their crowns they left Unto the next of kin . Thus have you seen the fallen of pride , And disobedient since . Printed and Sold by R. Marshal , in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow Lane , London . 