The Pensive Maid : OR , The Virgins Lamentation for the Loss of her Lover . For seven Years space she patiently did bear The Absence of her Love as you shall hear : At length sad Tidings came that he was slave , And that they never more should meet again . Tune of , Through the cool shady Woods ; Or , Deep in Love , etc When Sol will cast no light all darkened over , And dosesome time of night the Skies did cover : Down by a Rivers side where Ships are sailing , There a fair Maid I spied . weeping and wailing . I stepped unto her straight , dearest what grieves thee ? She answered me , and said , none can relieve me ? 'Tis seven long years and more since my Love parted , And left me on this shore quite broken hearted . He promised to return , if life was sent him , Which makes me sighs and mourn , death does prevent him : Oh that I could but hear some tidings from him , How it my heart would cheer , [ for ] all my longing . A young Man straight she spied , like one amazed , Which did a token bring , whereon she gazed ; Where is my Love ? quoth she , that comes not near me . The Youngman he reply'd , please for to hear me . YOur Love and I did fight under one Banner , Maintaining England's Right , purchasing Honour : He was a Seamon bold , of courage valiant , Scorning to be controul'd by ere a Gallant . But in a dreadful Fight where Guns did rattle , And many a gallant Wight , fell in the Battle : His fatal Destiny near was approaching , And summon'd him away by Death's encroaching . When he his Death's wound had , and Brains were broken , To me these words he said , deliver this Token To her that hath my heart and is more dearer , Wishing her for my sake to love the Bearer . And having spoke those words he then declined , And in a Stream of Blood his life resigned : Leaving me full of Care , sad News to bear it , His death for to declare as you now hear it . When she the Tidings herd with this sad Potion , She like a Stock appear'd without all Motion : At length her Spirits came by Grief inflamed , And then with Floods of Tears thus she exclaimed . O! you great Powers above , which life does send us ; And thou the God of Love that did befriend us , Why have you snatch'd away my dearest Sweating , And by your Cruelty spoiled our meeting . Since that my Love is dead , whom I did tender , No comfort I will take but life surrender : In some unwonted paths , there will I wander , And prove more constant than e'er was Leander . And so vain world farewell and all thy pleasure , Since he is gone that was my chiefest Treasure : In the Elizium Shades there will I hide me Until I find my Love what e'er betide me . The Pensive Maid : OR , The Virgins Lamentation for the Loss of her Lover . For seven Years space she patiently did bear The Absence of her Love as you shall hear : At length sad Tidings came that he was slave , And that they never more should meet again . Tune of , Through the cool shady Woods ; Or , Deep in Love , etc When Sol will cast no light all darkened over , And dosesome time of night the Skies did cover : Down by a Rivers side where Ships are sailing , There a fair Maid I spied . weeping and wailing . I stepped unto her straight , dearest what grieves thee ? She answered me , and said , none can relieve me ? 'Tis seven long years and more since my Love parted , And left me on this shore quite broken hearted . He promised to return , if life was sent him , Which makes me sighs and mourn , death does prevent him : Oh that I could but hear some tidings from him , How it my heart would cheer , [ for ] all my longing . A young Man straight she spied , like one amazed , Which did a token bring , whereon she gazed ; Where is my Love ? quoth she , that comes not near me . The Youngman he reply'd , please for to hear me . YOur Love and I did fight under one Banner , Maintaining England's Right , purchasing Honour : He was a Seamon bold , of courage valiant , Scorning to be controul'd by ere a Gallant . But in a dreadful Fight where Guns did rattle , And many a gallant Wight , fell in the Battle : His fatal Destiny near was approaching , And summon'd him away by Death's encroaching . When he his Death's wound had , and Brains were broken , To me these words he said , deliver this Token To her that hath my heart and is more dearer , Wishing her for my sake to love the Bearer . And having spoke those words he then declined , And in a Stream of Blood his life resigned : Leaving me full of Care , sad News to bear it , His death for to declare as you now hear it . When she the Tidings herd with this sad Potion , She like a Stock appear'd without all Motion : At length her Spirits came by Grief inflamed , And then with Floods of Tears thus she exclaimed . O! you great Powers above , which life does send us ; And thou the God of Love that did befriend us , Why have you snatch'd away my dearest Sweating , And by your Cruelty spoiled our meeting . Since that my Love is dead , whom I did tender , No comfort I will take but life surrender : In some unwonted paths , there will I wander , And prove more constant than e'er was Leander . And so vain world farewell and all thy pleasure , Since he is gone that was my chiefest Treasure : In the Elizium Shades there will I hide me Until I find my Love what e'er betide me . 