NUMB . 2. Love's CHRONICLE : OR , THE Changing HEART . By Cowley MArgaritta first possessed , If I remember well my Breast , Margaritta first of all ; But when a while the wanton Maid With my restless Heart had played , Martha took the flying Ball . Martha soon did it resign To the Beauteous Katherine , Beauteous Katherine gave Place , Though loath and angry she to part With the Possession of my Heart To Elisa's conquering Face . Elisa 'till this Hour might reign , Had she not Evil Counsels ta'en ; Fundamental Laws she broke , And still new Favourites she chosen , Till up in Arms my Passion rose , And cast away the Yoke . Mary then and gentle Ann Both to reign at once began , Alternately they sway'd ; And sometime Mary was the Fair , And sometime Ann the Crown did wear , Sometime I Both obey'd . Another Mary then arose , And did rigorous Laws impose , A mighty Tyrant she ! Long , alas , should I have been Under that Iron-Sceptred Queen , Had not Rebecca set me free . When fair Rebecca set me free , 'Twas then a golden Time for me , But soon those Pleasures fled ; For the gracious Princess dy'd In her Youth and Beauty's Pride , And Judith reigned in her stead . One Month , 3 Days and half and Hour , Judith held the Sov'reign power , Wondrous beautiful her Face , But so weak and small her Wit That she to govern was unfit , And so Susannah took her Place . But when Isabella came Arm'd with a resistless Flame , And th' Artillery of her Eye , While she proudly march'd about Greater Conquests to find out , She beatrice out Susan by the buy . But in her Place I then obey'd Black-ey'd Bess her Vice-Roy Maid , To whom ensu'd a Vacancy ; Thousand worse Passion then possessed The Inter-regnum of my Breast , Bless me from such and Anarchy ! Gentle Henrietta then And a third Marry next began , Then Joan , and Jane , and Audria , And then a pretty Thomasine , And then another Katherine , And then a long et cetera . But should I now to you relate The Strength and Riches of their State , The powder , patches , and the pins , The Ribbons , Jewels , and the Rings , The Lace , the paint , and Warlike things That make up all their Magazines : If I should tell the Politic Arts To take and keep Men's Hearts , The Letters , Embassies , and Spies , The Frowns , and Smiles , and Flatteries , The Quarrels , Fears and Perjuries , Numberless , Nameless Mysteries ! And all the little Lime-Twigs laid By Maschiavill the Waiting-Maid ; I more voluminous should grow , ( Chiefly if I like them should tell All change of Weathers that befell ) Than Holinshead or Stow. NORTHAMPTON , Printed by WILLIAM DICEY : And sold by William Peachey near St. Bennet's Church in Cambridge ; Matthias Dagnall , Bookseller , and at Mr. Burnham's Snuff-Shop , in Aylesbury ; John Timbs , and Henry Pot [ r ] in Stony Stratford ; Paul Stevens in Bicester ; Thomas Williams of Tring ; Anthony Thorpe of St. Alban's ; and by Churrude Brady in St. Ive's . At all which Places Chapmen , Travellers , etc may be supply'd with all Sorts of Old and New Ballads , Broadsheets , Histories , etc NUMB . 2. Love's CHRONICLE : OR , THE Changing HEART . By Cowley MArgaritta first possessed , If I remember well my Breast , Margaritta first of all ; But when a while the wanton Maid With my restless Heart had played , Martha took the flying Ball . Martha soon did it resign To the Beauteous Katherine , Beauteous Katherine gave Place , Though loath and angry she to part With the Possession of my Heart To Elisa's conquering Face . Elisa 'till this Hour might reign , Had she not Evil Counsels ta'en ; Fundamental Laws she broke , And still new Favourites she chosen , Till up in Arms my Passion rose , And cast away the Yoke . Mary then and gentle Ann Both to reign at once began , Alternately they sway'd ; And sometime Mary was the Fair , And sometime Ann the Crown did wear , Sometime I Both obey'd . Another Mary then arose , And did rigorous Laws impose , A mighty Tyrant she ! Long , alas , should I have been Under that Iron-Sceptred Queen , Had not Rebecca set me free . When fair Rebecca set me free , 'Twas then a golden Time for me , But soon those Pleasures fled ; For the gracious Princess dy'd In her Youth and Beauty's Pride , And Judith reigned in her stead . One Month , 3 Days and half and Hour , Judith held the Sov'reign power , Wondrous beautiful her Face , But so weak and small her Wit That she to govern was unfit , And so Susannah took her Place . But when Isabella came Arm'd with a resistless Flame , And th' Artillery of her Eye , While she proudly march'd about Greater Conquests to find out , She beatrice out Susan by the buy . But in her Place I then obey'd Black-ey'd Bess her Vice-Roy Maid , To whom ensu'd a Vacancy ; Thousand worse Passion then possessed The Inter-regnum of my Breast , Bless me from such and Anarchy ! Gentle Henrietta then And a third Marry next began , Then Joan , and Jane , and Audria , And then a pretty Thomasine , And then another Katherine , And then a long et cetera . But should I now to you relate The Strength and Riches of their State , The powder , patches , and the pins , The Ribbons , Jewels , and the Rings , The Lace , the paint , and Warlike things That make up all their Magazines : If I should tell the Politic Arts To take and keep Men's Hearts , The Letters , Embassies , and Spies , The Frowns , and Smiles , and Flatteries , The Quarrels , Fears and Perjuries , Numberless , Nameless Mysteries ! And all the little Lime-Twigs laid By Maschiavill the Waiting-Maid ; I more voluminous should grow , ( Chiefly if I like them should tell All change of Weathers that befell ) Than Holinshead or Stow. NORTHAMPTON , Printed by WILLIAM DICEY : And sold by William Peachey near St. Bennet's Church in Cambridge ; Matthias Dagnall , Bookseller , and at Mr. Burnham's Snuff-Shop , in Aylesbury ; John Timbs , and Henry Pot [ r ] in Stony Stratford ; Paul Stevens in Bicester ; Thomas Williams of Tring ; Anthony Thorpe of St. Alban's ; and by Churrude Brady in St. Ive's . At all which Places Chapmen , Travellers , etc may be supply'd with all Sorts of Old and New Ballads , Broadsheets , Histories , etc 