The SEAMANs Folly In Marrying One so quickly ; and for which he has Cause to Repent at leisure . Tune of , Cloris awake . Written by Joseph Martin . THere was a stout Seaman as I understand , That lately came Sailing into fair England , And for to be merry it was his intent And now you shall hear he has cause to repent . His Mess-Mates and he did together agree To go to the Tavern some pastime to see , Where he met with a lass that so pleased his mind That he vowed unto her he'd be loving and kind . This maid being willing together they went . Where some howrs in pleasure together they spent , But at last all the Cream of the jest will appear When this couple in private together was there . He kindly imbrac'd her and thus to her said I greatly do fear that thou wilt die a maid ; Now I am resolved what ever betide If thou art but willing to make thee my Bride . I'le leave all the Seas the Rocks & the storms And kindly embrace thee all night in my arms , Then pray thee sweet heart be thou not so coy For soon thou shalt see I will get thee a boy , The Maids Answer . For to marry kind sir I am loath to begin , For all sorts of Charges comes tumbling in , Yet I am resolved what ever betide I'll have a stout Seaman to lie by my side . A Seaman I love him as dear as my life And I am resolv'd to be a Seamans wife : Then why should I stay now I am in my prime For we will be married now it is high time . The Seamans answer . The young man at this began to rejoice To think he had met with [ so happy a choice . ] They straightway was married the truth for to say , But she made him a Cuckold the very next day . He presently finding his wife's policy , He then was resolved a trick for to try And strait did disguise himself as some people say He pick'd her up walking in Ratcliff high way . To the Tavern they went where full merry they were But she little mistrusted her husband was there , Come lets drink a health without any delay My Cuckold at home all the reckoning shall pay . Her husband at this in a passion strait fell And with a good stick he lamfatted her well , So taking his leave he bid England adieu Since one has proov'd false he did think had been true . London Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . The SEAMANs Folly In Marrying One so quickly ; and for which he has Cause to Repent at leisure . Tune of , Cloris awake . Written by Joseph Martin . THere was a stout Seaman as I understand , That lately came Sailing into fair England , And for to be merry it was his intent And now you shall hear he has cause to repent . His Mess-Mates and he did together agree To go to the Tavern some pastime to see , Where he met with a lass that so pleased his mind That he vowed unto her he'd be loving and kind . This maid being willing together they went . Where some howrs in pleasure together they spent , But at last all the Cream of the jest will appear When this couple in private together was there . He kindly imbrac'd her and thus to her said I greatly do fear that thou wilt die a maid ; Now I am resolved what ever betide If thou art but willing to make thee my Bride . I'le leave all the Seas the Rocks & the storms And kindly embrace thee all night in my arms , Then pray thee sweet heart be thou not so coy For soon thou shalt see I will get thee a boy , The Maids Answer . For to marry kind sir I am loath to begin , For all sorts of Charges comes tumbling in , Yet I am resolved what ever betide I'll have a stout Seaman to lie by my side . A Seaman I love him as dear as my life And I am resolv'd to be a Seamans wife : Then why should I stay now I am in my prime For we will be married now it is high time . The Seamans answer . The young man at this began to rejoice To think he had met with [ so happy a choice . ] They straightway was married the truth for to say , But she made him a Cuckold the very next day . He presently finding his wife's policy , He then was resolved a trick for to try And strait did disguise himself as some people say He pick'd her up walking in Ratcliff high way . To the Tavern they went where full merry they were But she little mistrusted her husband was there , Come lets drink a health without any delay My Cuckold at home all the reckoning shall pay . Her husband at this in a passion strait fell And with a good stick he lamfatted her well , So taking his leave he bid England adieu Since one has proov'd false he did think had been true . London Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . 