The Thanksgiving : A New PROTESTANT BALLAD . To and Excellent Italian Tune . I. LET's sing the New M -- y's Praise With Hearts most thankful and glad , For the S -- smen of these our Days Are the wisest that ever we had . II But not to wander too far In the Maze of their endless Merit ; I'll give you and Instance most rare Of their Vigilance , Wisdom , and Spirit . III . They herd on Queen Bess's Birthday The Prentices had and Intent Th' old Protestant Gambol to play , Which Churchmen , they thought , should prevent IV. The Frolic , it seems , was no less Than to carry about in Procession A Pope in Ridiculous Dress , And to burn it by way of Diversion . V. Beside these turbulent Fo'ke ( Than their Ancestors much more uncivil ) To their Pageant had added the Joke Of a Perkin , and eke of a Devil . VI . With Cardinals , Jesuits , Friars , A Cartload together at least , Intended to Crown their Bonfires , A very unseas'nable Jest . VII . For sure there cou'd be no Sense , When a Peace is coming upon us , T' affront such a powerful Prince As the Pope ; why it might have undone us . VIII . Then if the Most Christian King Should have taken it ill at our hand , Such a very unmannerly thing Might have put the Peace to a stand . IX . The Jacobites next , to be sure , Would have ris'n to defend their Master ; And who could have told where a Cure Could be found for such a Disaster ? X. Beside it would bear a doubt , Whither burning the Pope and the Devil Might not be designed to flout At High-Church and Dr. Sachev'rell . XI . Furthermore in these Days of since 'Twas fear'd by Folks that were hearty , A numerous Mob might have been Ev'n rais'd for the Dev'l and 's Party . XII . 'Twas therefore expedient found To send the Foot-Guards on the Scout , To search all the Suburbs round , And find the bold Pageant out . XIII . They took it , and , as it was fit , A Magistrate Wise and Great The Criminals strait did commit , That the Law might determine their Fate . XIV . Then for Fear of a Rescue by Night , At which we should all ha' beed troubled , 'Twas order'd ( and sure that was right ) That the Guards shou'd be ev'ry where doubled XV . Beside that no Harm might come nigh us , The Bans so well Train'd were drawn out , And as long as those Heroes stand by us The Devil himself we may rout . XVI . What tho' some People did sneer , And call 'em the Pope's Life-Guard ; They stood to their Arms and their Beer All Night , and kept Watch and Ward . XVII . So God save our Gracious Queen , And Her Ministers every one . And he that don't say Amen , Is a Churl , and may let it alone . XVIII . The Hanover House God preserve , And blast the Pretender's Hope : The Protestant Cause let's serve , And give to the Devil the Pope . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1711. The Thanksgiving : A New PROTESTANT BALLAD . To and Excellent Italian Tune . I. LET's sing the New M -- y's Praise With Hearts most thankful and glad , For the S -- smen of these our Days Are the wisest that ever we had . II But not to wander too far In the Maze of their endless Merit ; I'll give you and Instance most rare Of their Vigilance , Wisdom , and Spirit . III . They herd on Queen Bess's Birthday The Prentices had and Intent Th' old Protestant Gambol to play , Which Churchmen , they thought , should prevent IV. The Frolic , it seems , was no less Than to carry about in Procession A Pope in Ridiculous Dress , And to burn it by way of Diversion . V. Beside these turbulent Fo'ke ( Than their Ancestors much more uncivil ) To their Pageant had added the Joke Of a Perkin , and eke of a Devil . VI . With Cardinals , Jesuits , Friars , A Cartload together at least , Intended to Crown their Bonfires , A very unseas'nable Jest . VII . For sure there cou'd be no Sense , When a Peace is coming upon us , T' affront such a powerful Prince As the Pope ; why it might have undone us . VIII . Then if the Most Christian King Should have taken it ill at our hand , Such a very unmannerly thing Might have put the Peace to a stand . IX . The Jacobites next , to be sure , Would have ris'n to defend their Master ; And who could have told where a Cure Could be found for such a Disaster ? X. Beside it would bear a doubt , Whither burning the Pope and the Devil Might not be designed to flout At High-Church and Dr. Sachev'rell . XI . Furthermore in these Days of since 'Twas fear'd by Folks that were hearty , A numerous Mob might have been Ev'n rais'd for the Dev'l and 's Party . XII . 'Twas therefore expedient found To send the Foot-Guards on the Scout , To search all the Suburbs round , And find the bold Pageant out . XIII . They took it , and , as it was fit , A Magistrate Wise and Great The Criminals strait did commit , That the Law might determine their Fate . XIV . Then for Fear of a Rescue by Night , At which we should all ha' beed troubled , 'Twas order'd ( and sure that was right ) That the Guards shou'd be ev'ry where doubled XV . Beside that no Harm might come nigh us , The Bans so well Train'd were drawn out , And as long as those Heroes stand by us The Devil himself we may rout . XVI . What tho' some People did sneer , And call 'em the Pope's Life-Guard ; They stood to their Arms and their Beer All Night , and kept Watch and Ward . XVII . So God save our Gracious Queen , And Her Ministers every one . And he that don't say Amen , Is a Churl , and may let it alone . XVIII . The Hanover House God preserve , And blast the Pretender's Hope : The Protestant Cause let's serve , And give to the Devil the Pope . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1711. 