The contented Subject's ; Or , the Citizens Joy No Power without God's Providence ; shall ever last or stand : Then God preserve our Gracious Prince , and Sovereign of this Land. The Tune is , Now , now the Fight's done . NOw , now the time's come , Noble Prichard is chosen , In spite of all People that would him oppose : The King and His Subject's , I hope will agree , That troubles and dangers , forgotten may be ; Then , now London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper our King . The difference now , I hope is Compos'd , And the confidence that in our Mayor's Repos'd ; I do hope will be answer'd in every degree , If so , then not Subject's more happy than we : Then brave London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . Our Flourishing Monarch , whose Fame does abound , The Defender of Faith , I do hope will be found : Let the Turk and the Pope , both of him stand in fear , Whose Protestant Principles , now are so clear ; That the brave London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . Do but mind how the Heavens upon us do smile , And the Pope's expectations do clearly beguile : To oblige Sinful Men , from their fault to refrain , That in Heaven above , they with Saints may remain ; Then Protestant Subjects be merry and Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . The Divisions of late , that did strangely increase , I hope will conclude in a Flourishing Peace ; And England be freed from the dangers and fears , Which seem'd for to threaten her several years : Then may Loyal Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . And who can foretell what God's Love will bestow On us Sinful Men , who Inhabit below ? Since daily we find that the Powers above , Sends us daily Symptoms of Mercy and Love : But let brave Loyal Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . Thrice happy are Subject's , Yea , Blessed are they Who Honour their Prince , and God's Laws do obey : Upon that Blessed Land , will Providence flow 'Twere happy for England , if we could do so ; Yet London brave Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper our King . What Prince ever Reign'd in this Island before , More filled with Love , that hath Mercy in store ? That freely forgives many who do offend , In hope's to find Mercy himself , in the end : Then brave London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper our King . Then lift up your Souls both in Heart and in Voice , Bless Heaven so kind , for so happy a Choice ; As lately was made , to the Peoples content , Of which I do hope they will never repen While the brave London Citizens merrily Sing ; God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . You brave English Subject's , that Honour your Prince , Take pattern by me , and let reason Convince : That our King does endeavour this Land to Advance , And not keep you like the Poor Serviles in France ; Then let London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . Of Whigs and of Torys , we hear shall no more , These Names of distinctions did trouble some soar : But since God and the King , to England are friends , Know , where strife among Subject's so strangely depends , The Citizens then very faintly will Sing , But God Bless the Mayor , and Prosper the King . Do but mind with what joy this Mayor was receiv'd , 'Twould make you admire , 'tis by some not believ'd : But 'tis certainly sure , give but Credit to me , That goes not by Here-say ; but this I did see : Then London brave Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield . The contented Subject's ; Or , the Citizens Joy No Power without God's Providence ; shall ever last or stand : Then God preserve our Gracious Prince , and Sovereign of this Land. The Tune is , Now , now the Fight's done . NOw , now the time's come , Noble Prichard is chosen , In spite of all People that would him oppose : The King and His Subject's , I hope will agree , That troubles and dangers , forgotten may be ; Then , now London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper our King . The difference now , I hope is Compos'd , And the confidence that in our Mayor's Repos'd ; I do hope will be answer'd in every degree , If so , then not Subject's more happy than we : Then brave London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . Our Flourishing Monarch , whose Fame does abound , The Defender of Faith , I do hope will be found : Let the Turk and the Pope , both of him stand in fear , Whose Protestant Principles , now are so clear ; That the brave London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . Do but mind how the Heavens upon us do smile , And the Pope's expectations do clearly beguile : To oblige Sinful Men , from their fault to refrain , That in Heaven above , they with Saints may remain ; Then Protestant Subjects be merry and Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . The Divisions of late , that did strangely increase , I hope will conclude in a Flourishing Peace ; And England be freed from the dangers and fears , Which seem'd for to threaten her several years : Then may Loyal Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . And who can foretell what God's Love will bestow On us Sinful Men , who Inhabit below ? Since daily we find that the Powers above , Sends us daily Symptoms of Mercy and Love : But let brave Loyal Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . Thrice happy are Subject's , Yea , Blessed are they Who Honour their Prince , and God's Laws do obey : Upon that Blessed Land , will Providence flow 'Twere happy for England , if we could do so ; Yet London brave Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper our King . What Prince ever Reign'd in this Island before , More filled with Love , that hath Mercy in store ? That freely forgives many who do offend , In hope's to find Mercy himself , in the end : Then brave London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper our King . Then lift up your Souls both in Heart and in Voice , Bless Heaven so kind , for so happy a Choice ; As lately was made , to the Peoples content , Of which I do hope they will never repen While the brave London Citizens merrily Sing ; God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . You brave English Subject's , that Honour your Prince , Take pattern by me , and let reason Convince : That our King does endeavour this Land to Advance , And not keep you like the Poor Serviles in France ; Then let London Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . Of Whigs and of Torys , we hear shall no more , These Names of distinctions did trouble some soar : But since God and the King , to England are friends , Know , where strife among Subject's so strangely depends , The Citizens then very faintly will Sing , But God Bless the Mayor , and Prosper the King . Do but mind with what joy this Mayor was receiv'd , 'Twould make you admire , 'tis by some not believ'd : But 'tis certainly sure , give but Credit to me , That goes not by Here-say ; but this I did see : Then London brave Citizens merrily Sing , God Bless Noble Prichard , and Prosper the King . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield . 