The Lovesick Maid : Or , Cordelia's Lamentation for the Absence of her Gerheard . To a pleasant New Tune . BE gone Thou fatal fiery Favour , now be gone , let Love alone ; Let his Etherial flames possess my Breas His Fires From thy consuming heat no aid requires , for swift desires Transports my passion to a Throne of res Where I , Who in the pride of Health , did never feel such warmth to move ; By Sickness tam'd and so inflam'd , I know no Joys but Love . And he That trifled many tedious hours away , my Love to try , In little space , hath gain'd the grace to have more Power than I . Depart Thou scorching fury , quick from me depart , think not my heart To thy dull flame shall be a Sacrifice ; A Maid Dread Cupid now is on thine Altar laid , by thee betray'd . A rich Oblation to restore thine eyes . B [ u ] tO yet My fair acknowledgment will prove thou hadst no craft , To bend thy bow , against thy Foe , that aim'd to catch the Shaf For if That at my Breast thy Arrows thou all at once let fly , She that receives a thousand Sheaves can do no more but die . No more , You learn'd Physicians , tyre your Brains no more , pray give me o're , Mine is a Cure in Physic never read : Although You skilful Doctors all the World does know ; pray let me go , You may as well make practice on the Dead . But if My Gerheard dain to view me , wi [ tO ] h the Glory of his looks , I make no doubt , to live without Phy [ s ] i [ tO ] ians and their Books : 'Tis he Than [ tO ] with his balmed Kisses can restore my la [ tO ] est breath : Wha [ tO ] bliss is this , to gain a Kiss , can save a Maid from Death : To you That tell me of another World , I vow , and will allow Your sacred Precepts , if you'l grant me this ; That he Whom I esteem of next the Deity , may go with me ; Without whose presence there can be no bliss . Go teach Your Tenets of Eternity , to those that aged be ; And not persuade a Lovesick Maid , there's any Heaven but he . But stay , Methinks and Icy slumber hath possessed my frenzy brain : Pray bid him die , if you see I shall never wake again . The Young-Man's Answer : Or , His Dying Breath , Lamenting for his Fair Cordelia's Death . To a delightful New Tune . COme on Thou fatal messenger , from her that's gone , lest I alone Within that quenchless flame forever fry : The lake Of Love being kindled , wherein none can take rest , but wake , Where slumber hath no power to close the Eye ; While I , That by my fair Cordelia desires to take a sleep , With lids wide spread upon my bed , am forc'd a watch to keep . And she That waited many tedious hours my Constancy to try , Is now at rest while I oppressed , fain would , but cannot die . Dispatch , Thou scorching Fury , quickly now dispatch , by death I watch , To be released from this tormenting flame : The Dart Sent from dread Cupid , sticks fast in my heart , I wanting art , Had not the power for to resist the same . Though she , Who by her late acknowledgment professed thou hadst no craft ; Yet from thy bow , thou madest her know , what Power lay in the shaft , But then Thou sent another Arrow , which me of hope's beref Most like a Foe , to wound me so , for whom no cure is left . Wherefore Did you Physicians give my Mistress o're ? had you no more Experience , but what you in Books have read ? Or why ( You Learned Doctors ) did you cease to try your skills when I Might have reviv'd her , if she'd not been dead : And yet Suppose that I in Person had present been to view her , Is there such grace in any face , to work so great a Cure ? But now I'me come too late to kiss her : which were it not in vain , After her death , i'de spend my breath to fetch her back again . Unto The fair Elizium , thither will I go , whereas I know , She is among those Sacred ones prefer'd : When I Shall be admitted for to come so nigh ; pardon I'le cry , For my so long absence , wherein I have err'd : And since By her I was esteem'd so much on Earth , being here : Hence for her sake no rest i'll take , till I have found her there . No more , But only I desire , to hear my Passing-Bell , That Virgins may lament the day , of Gerheards last Farewell . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Lovesick Maid : Or , Cordelia's Lamentation for the Absence of her Gerheard . To a pleasant New Tune . BE gone Thou fatal fiery Favour , now be gone , let Love alone ; Let his Etherial flames possess my Breas His Fires From thy consuming heat no aid requires , for swift desires Transports my passion to a Throne of res Where I , Who in the pride of Health , did never feel such warmth to move ; By Sickness tam'd and so inflam'd , I know no Joys but Love . And he That trifled many tedious hours away , my Love to try , In little space , hath gain'd the grace to have more Power than I . Depart Thou scorching fury , quick from me depart , think not my heart To thy dull flame shall be a Sacrifice ; A Maid Dread Cupid now is on thine Altar laid , by thee betray'd . A rich Oblation to restore thine eyes . B [ u ] tO yet My fair acknowledgment will prove thou hadst no craft , To bend thy bow , against thy Foe , that aim'd to catch the Shaf For if That at my Breast thy Arrows thou all at once let fly , She that receives a thousand Sheaves can do no more but die . No more , You learn'd Physicians , tyre your Brains no more , pray give me o're , Mine is a Cure in Physic never read : Although You skilful Doctors all the World does know ; pray let me go , You may as well make practice on the Dead . But if My Gerheard dain to view me , wi [ tO ] h the Glory of his looks , I make no doubt , to live without Phy [ s ] i [ tO ] ians and their Books : 'Tis he Than [ tO ] with his balmed Kisses can restore my la [ tO ] est breath : Wha [ tO ] bliss is this , to gain a Kiss , can save a Maid from Death : To you That tell me of another World , I vow , and will allow Your sacred Precepts , if you'l grant me this ; That he Whom I esteem of next the Deity , may go with me ; Without whose presence there can be no bliss . Go teach Your Tenets of Eternity , to those that aged be ; And not persuade a Lovesick Maid , there's any Heaven but he . But stay , Methinks and Icy slumber hath possessed my frenzy brain : Pray bid him die , if you see I shall never wake again . The Young-Man's Answer : Or , His Dying Breath , Lamenting for his Fair Cordelia's Death . To a delightful New Tune . COme on Thou fatal messenger , from her that's gone , lest I alone Within that quenchless flame forever fry : The lake Of Love being kindled , wherein none can take rest , but wake , Where slumber hath no power to close the Eye ; While I , That by my fair Cordelia desires to take a sleep , With lids wide spread upon my bed , am forc'd a watch to keep . And she That waited many tedious hours my Constancy to try , Is now at rest while I oppressed , fain would , but cannot die . Dispatch , Thou scorching Fury , quickly now dispatch , by death I watch , To be released from this tormenting flame : The Dart Sent from dread Cupid , sticks fast in my heart , I wanting art , Had not the power for to resist the same . Though she , Who by her late acknowledgment professed thou hadst no craft ; Yet from thy bow , thou madest her know , what Power lay in the shaft , But then Thou sent another Arrow , which me of hope's beref Most like a Foe , to wound me so , for whom no cure is left . Wherefore Did you Physicians give my Mistress o're ? had you no more Experience , but what you in Books have read ? Or why ( You Learned Doctors ) did you cease to try your skills when I Might have reviv'd her , if she'd not been dead : And yet Suppose that I in Person had present been to view her , Is there such grace in any face , to work so great a Cure ? But now I'me come too late to kiss her : which were it not in vain , After her death , i'de spend my breath to fetch her back again . Unto The fair Elizium , thither will I go , whereas I know , She is among those Sacred ones prefer'd : When I Shall be admitted for to come so nigh ; pardon I'le cry , For my so long absence , wherein I have err'd : And since By her I was esteem'd so much on Earth , being here : Hence for her sake no rest i'll take , till I have found her there . No more , But only I desire , to hear my Passing-Bell , That Virgins may lament the day , of Gerheards last Farewell . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 