And Hundred Godly LESSONS , Which a Mother on her Deathbed gave to her Children , whereby they may know how to guide themselves towards GOD and Man , to the Benefit of the Commonwealth , to the Joy of their Parents , and to the Good of themselves . Tune of , Flying Fame . MY Children dear , mark well my Words And keep my Precepts well , Consider daily in your Minds , The Words which I shall tell : The Gain is great which I shall tell , Good Counsel does direct , Their Ways and Actions for the best , That do it not neglect . First worship God above all Things , Vain Swearing see you shun , Hear much , but see you little say , Thereby much good is wone : Speak thou no ill of any Man , Tend well thy own Affairs , Bridle thy Wrath and Anger so , For thereof comes no Cares . Be mild and gentle in thy Speech , Both unto Man and Child : Refuse not good and lawful Gains , With Friends be not beguil'd ; Forget not any good Thing done , Relieve thy Neighbour's Need ; And when thou lives in Wealth and Ease , The Hungry see thou feed . In God repose thy Strength and Stay , With Tongue extol his Praise ; Honour thy Parents and the Lord , He will Prolong thy Days ; He that his Father honour does , God will forgive his since , He who his Mother loves is like , Much Favour for to win . A Son obedient to the Lord , His Mother comfort shall ; The Father's Blessing stays the House , When it is like to fallen A wise Son makes the Father glad , Fools do their Mother grieve , For when their Parents aged are , They will not them relieve . He that his Mother does despise , Shall come to nought and worse , The Ravens shall pick out their Eyes , That do their Parents curse . From needy Men turn not thy Face , Let not thy Right Hand know What thou dost with thy Left Hand give , Or on the Poor bestow . Cast no Man in the Teeth with that , Which you for him hath done , But in constant steady Course Let all your Favours run : Before thou talk'st not that which may , Much Trouble to thee bring : With godly Fear serve thou the Lord , And reverence the King . Boast not thyself before God's Sighed , Who knows thy Heart always ; Offend not thou the Multitude , Faint not when thou do'st pray : Scorn not a man in Misery , Esteem not tattling Tales ; Consider Reason is exil'd When as a Drunkard rails . Use not thy Lips to loathsome Lies , By Craft increase no Wealth , And strive not with a mighty man , With Temperance nourish Health : Look that thou order well thy Words , Leave not thy Friends for Gold , Trust not too much before you try , In venturing be not too bold . They that upon the Poor bestow , Unto the Lord does lend , And God unto such Men again , A thousand Fold does send ; As Water does the Fire quench ; Whose Fury great does grow , Even so shall Mercy quench their Sins , The which does Mercy Show . Hear thou God's Word with earnest care , With Wisdom answer make ; Be thou not mov'd with every Wind , Such Courses Sinners take ; They talk well of thy Fame or Shame Fools do themselves annoy ; Trust not thy own Will over much , For that will thee destroy . They that the living God do fear , A faithful Friend will find , A true Friend is a Jewel rare , And Comfort to the Mind : Hear Sermons , and good Sentences Thou must receive aright , In God's Commandment exercise Thyself both Day and Night . Think on the Pain thy Mother had , In bringing thee to Life ; Fear God who knows thy secret Thoughts And look thou makes no Strife ; Visit the Sick with carefulness , The Prisoners Grief consider , Show Pity to the Fatherless , And God will thee deliver . Help still to right the Widow's wrong , Remember still thy End , So thou shalt never do amiss , Nor wilfully offend . Trust not a reconciled Friend , More than and open Foe , They that touch Pitch must be defil'd , Take Heed thou dost not so . Take not a Wife that wanton is , And full of shameful Words ; The flattering of and Harlot is At length more sharp than Swords ; Cast not thy Love on such a one , Whose Looks can thee allure ; In every Face where Beauty is , The Heart's not always pure . A Woman fair and indiscreet , Is like a Ring of Gold , The which in a Swine's Snout is set , Unseemly to behold . The Malice of lewd Women shun , For they will thee destroy , Hate her that does on every Man Set her Delight and Joy . From others let thy Praise proceed Boast not thyself in ought ; He that hath a flattering Tongue , Is oft to Ruin brought . The Child that does its Parents rob , Is guilty of great since ; He always will [ l ] be disesteem'd , And shall no Favour win . Correction brings Wisdom found , Fools hate good Council still , That Child does grieve his Mother much That strives against her will ; The good Child shines as the Light , Which brings on the Day , The Wicked know not where they w [ alk , ] For Darkness is their way . Put far from thee a forward Mouth , A slanderous Tongue is ill , And do not thou a slanderous Mind In any wise fulfil . A Harlot brings a Man to beg , In her is found no Truth ; In gladness therefore live and die With the Wife of thy Youth . Much babbling breeds much Offence , He that speaks least is wise ; God's Blessing only makes Men rich . From whence all Joys arise ; Better is little , fearing God , Than Bags of Gold god ill , And better is one Bit of Bred , Than a fat Ox with Ill-will . Who brooks not Warning hates his Soul True Age worship aright ; A patient Man far better is , Than one endowed with Migh Man's Credit comes by doing Good , And humble Mind indeed Is better than a Liar proud , From whom vain Brags proceed . By this , dear Children , you may learn How to direct your Ways To God , to Man , to Commonwealth , Where e'er thy dwelling stays , Print well in Remembrance , Those Lessens I have shown , Then shall you live in happy State , When I am dead and gone . NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE : Printed and sold by T. SAINT . And Hundred Godly LESSONS , Which a Mother on her Deathbed gave to her Children , whereby they may know how to guide themselves towards GOD and Man , to the Benefit of the Commonwealth , to the Joy of their Parents , and to the Good of themselves . Tune of , Flying Fame . MY Children dear , mark well my Words And keep my Precepts well , Consider daily in your Minds , The Words which I shall tell : The Gain is great which I shall tell , Good Counsel does direct , Their Ways and Actions for the best , That do it not neglect . First worship God above all Things , Vain Swearing see you shun , Hear much , but see you little say , Thereby much good is wone : Speak thou no ill of any Man , Tend well thy own Affairs , Bridle thy Wrath and Anger so , For thereof comes no Cares . Be mild and gentle in thy Speech , Both unto Man and Child : Refuse not good and lawful Gains , With Friends be not beguil'd ; Forget not any good Thing done , Relieve thy Neighbour's Need ; And when thou lives in Wealth and Ease , The Hungry see thou feed . In God repose thy Strength and Stay , With Tongue extol his Praise ; Honour thy Parents and the Lord , He will Prolong thy Days ; He that his Father honour does , God will forgive his since , He who his Mother loves is like , Much Favour for to win . A Son obedient to the Lord , His Mother comfort shall ; The Father's Blessing stays the House , When it is like to fallen A wise Son makes the Father glad , Fools do their Mother grieve , For when their Parents aged are , They will not them relieve . He that his Mother does despise , Shall come to nought and worse , The Ravens shall pick out their Eyes , That do their Parents curse . From needy Men turn not thy Face , Let not thy Right Hand know What thou dost with thy Left Hand give , Or on the Poor bestow . Cast no Man in the Teeth with that , Which you for him hath done , But in constant steady Course Let all your Favours run : Before thou talk'st not that which may , Much Trouble to thee bring : With godly Fear serve thou the Lord , And reverence the King . Boast not thyself before God's Sighed , Who knows thy Heart always ; Offend not thou the Multitude , Faint not when thou do'st pray : Scorn not a man in Misery , Esteem not tattling Tales ; Consider Reason is exil'd When as a Drunkard rails . Use not thy Lips to loathsome Lies , By Craft increase no Wealth , And strive not with a mighty man , With Temperance nourish Health : Look that thou order well thy Words , Leave not thy Friends for Gold , Trust not too much before you try , In venturing be not too bold . They that upon the Poor bestow , Unto the Lord does lend , And God unto such Men again , A thousand Fold does send ; As Water does the Fire quench ; Whose Fury great does grow , Even so shall Mercy quench their Sins , The which does Mercy Show . Hear thou God's Word with earnest care , With Wisdom answer make ; Be thou not mov'd with every Wind , Such Courses Sinners take ; They talk well of thy Fame or Shame Fools do themselves annoy ; Trust not thy own Will over much , For that will thee destroy . They that the living God do fear , A faithful Friend will find , A true Friend is a Jewel rare , And Comfort to the Mind : Hear Sermons , and good Sentences Thou must receive aright , In God's Commandment exercise Thyself both Day and Night . Think on the Pain thy Mother had , In bringing thee to Life ; Fear God who knows thy secret Thoughts And look thou makes no Strife ; Visit the Sick with carefulness , The Prisoners Grief consider , Show Pity to the Fatherless , And God will thee deliver . Help still to right the Widow's wrong , Remember still thy End , So thou shalt never do amiss , Nor wilfully offend . Trust not a reconciled Friend , More than and open Foe , They that touch Pitch must be defil'd , Take Heed thou dost not so . Take not a Wife that wanton is , And full of shameful Words ; The flattering of and Harlot is At length more sharp than Swords ; Cast not thy Love on such a one , Whose Looks can thee allure ; In every Face where Beauty is , The Heart's not always pure . A Woman fair and indiscreet , Is like a Ring of Gold , The which in a Swine's Snout is set , Unseemly to behold . The Malice of lewd Women shun , For they will thee destroy , Hate her that does on every Man Set her Delight and Joy . From others let thy Praise proceed Boast not thyself in ought ; He that hath a flattering Tongue , Is oft to Ruin brought . The Child that does its Parents rob , Is guilty of great since ; He always will [ l ] be disesteem'd , And shall no Favour win . Correction brings Wisdom found , Fools hate good Council still , That Child does grieve his Mother much That strives against her will ; The good Child shines as the Light , Which brings on the Day , The Wicked know not where they w [ alk , ] For Darkness is their way . Put far from thee a forward Mouth , A slanderous Tongue is ill , And do not thou a slanderous Mind In any wise fulfil . A Harlot brings a Man to beg , In her is found no Truth ; In gladness therefore live and die With the Wife of thy Youth . Much babbling breeds much Offence , He that speaks least is wise ; God's Blessing only makes Men rich . From whence all Joys arise ; Better is little , fearing God , Than Bags of Gold god ill , And better is one Bit of Bred , Than a fat Ox with Ill-will . Who brooks not Warning hates his Soul True Age worship aright ; A patient Man far better is , Than one endowed with Migh Man's Credit comes by doing Good , And humble Mind indeed Is better than a Liar proud , From whom vain Brags proceed . By this , dear Children , you may learn How to direct your Ways To God , to Man , to Commonwealth , Where e'er thy dwelling stays , Print well in Remembrance , Those Lessens I have shown , Then shall you live in happy State , When I am dead and gone . NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE : Printed and sold by T. SAINT . 