AND ELEGY ON THE Much to be lamented Death of that Worthy and Reverend Divine Mr JOHN THOMPSON Minister of the Gospel in Stockton , who died on the 23d of February 1753 , in the 50th Year of his Age , much lamented by all that knew him . I. LORD what is Man that now we see , Nothing at all but Vanity ; Appear'd To day like a Flower , Tomorrow Death does him devour . II Stockton lament , thy Case bemoan , Down to the Dust is lately gone , And takes Repose among the Just , That worthy celebrated Dust. III . Of our worthy Thompson-singular , He's gone , he's gone , too true we hear , From this World's Woe and Pain ; Alas our Tears are all in vain . IV. Sure there is none my Grief can tell , Now since I herd his Passing bell . O Stockton this give thee a Shock . Thompson the brave , thy worthy Prop. V. O Reader stand and shed a Tear , When of our Loss you chance to hear , Had you known him as well as I , With Tears of Sorrow you would cry . VI . Of this sad Instance before our Eyes , Does all who knew him with Grief surprise ; That the learned the pious Thompson brave , So soon is call'd to his cold Grave . VII . Of his Fame where shall I begin to tell , Great's that Love in his Breast did dwell ; Yea not to one , but unto all , Alas , alas , great is our Fallen . VIII . His Charity it was so great , No Tongue can well express it ; The Poor now all begin to moan , To hear their worthy Thompson's gone . IX . Riches for them he did not care , Among the Poor he did them share ; For all he gave was through pure Love , He knew his Treasure was above . X. Children untaught do for him weep , To hear he's laid in silent Sleep ; Oh cruel Death that's so severe , His worthy Life that would not spare . XI . In Gaming he took no Delight , But chaste he walk'd in all Men's Sighed ; Vain Company was not his Abided , But in his Closet with his God . XII . For Rich and Poor he did not mind , Alike to both he was inclin'd ; Nothing could make him to delay ; No sooner ask'd but went away . XIII . Unto his Flock tender Regard he boar , Of their Souls he had a special Care , No human Man sure could do more , His Flock to keep , since to abhor . XIV . His Flock in Tears does him condole , To think they lost so brave a Soul ; Which God did bliss them so much under , His pious Life was Stockton's Wonder . XV . Both old and young does for him lament , To hear his God for him has sent ; No longer here he would him spare , He had for him a greater Care . XVI . A greater Loss ne'er came to this Place , Than that of worthy Thomson's Face ; Oh! had he liv'd longer Years to seen , His Flock had almost happy been . XVII . But o alas ! that must not be , His God did love him tenderly ; And now his God has sent for him , In heavenly Joys with him to swim . XVIII . His Doctrine it was pure indeed , Oh may we in his Paths all tread ; His Conversation and Life did shine , With Piety that was divine . XIX . No Minister that ere was placed Among his Flock that was more graced , Most of the Clergy he led the Van , More like and Angel than a Man. XX . By all Professions he was loved , Unto all his Pity meekly moved , That was to us a Day of Woe , His God call'd him hence for to go . XXI . O Thompson learned Thomspson thou , Now's gone and bids us all adieu ; Oh may our Souls all be like thine , That does now in Glory shine . XXII . Thy God thy God delights in thee , And from thy Troubles set thee free , For thee his precious Blood he shed , And now he is become thy Head. XXIII . When we his vacant Pulpit see , Those worthy Sermons preach'd by thee , With Sorrows we do hang our Head , Saying all Comfort's from us fled . XXIV . Last Text preach'd worthy Thompson dear , Which makes me shed many a Tear , My God is good , come taste and see , [ Psal. XXXIV . 8 . ] Which now he does to all Eternity . XXV . Now to his heavenly Joys he's gone , All that knew him does for him moan , Where far from Noise and Troubles free , Now Praises he sings to all Eternity . XXVI . O you his Flock that did him hear , With a ready and attentive Ear , In his blessed Paths do all you tread , At last be Heirs of Glory made . XXVII . O Lord grant his Hearers all , Especially those that gives a Call , His vocant Pulpit may get one , Like pious Thompson , now that's gone . His EPITAPH . Here lies his Dust interred full low , His Soul immediately does go , Into these heavenly Joys above , And there to sing redeeming Love . AND ELEGY ON THE Much to be lamented Death of that Worthy and Reverend Divine Mr JOHN THOMPSON Minister of the Gospel in Stockton , who died on the 23d of February 1753 , in the 50th Year of his Age , much lamented by all that knew him . I. LORD what is Man that now we see , Nothing at all but Vanity ; Appear'd To day like a Flower , Tomorrow Death does him devour . II Stockton lament , thy Case bemoan , Down to the Dust is lately gone , And takes Repose among the Just , That worthy celebrated Dust. III . Of our worthy Thompson-singular , He's gone , he's gone , too true we hear , From this World's Woe and Pain ; Alas our Tears are all in vain . IV. Sure there is none my Grief can tell , Now since I herd his Passing bell . O Stockton this give thee a Shock . Thompson the brave , thy worthy Prop. V. O Reader stand and shed a Tear , When of our Loss you chance to hear , Had you known him as well as I , With Tears of Sorrow you would cry . VI . Of this sad Instance before our Eyes , Does all who knew him with Grief surprise ; That the learned the pious Thompson brave , So soon is call'd to his cold Grave . VII . Of his Fame where shall I begin to tell , Great's that Love in his Breast did dwell ; Yea not to one , but unto all , Alas , alas , great is our Fallen . VIII . His Charity it was so great , No Tongue can well express it ; The Poor now all begin to moan , To hear their worthy Thompson's gone . IX . Riches for them he did not care , Among the Poor he did them share ; For all he gave was through pure Love , He knew his Treasure was above . X. Children untaught do for him weep , To hear he's laid in silent Sleep ; Oh cruel Death that's so severe , His worthy Life that would not spare . XI . In Gaming he took no Delight , But chaste he walk'd in all Men's Sighed ; Vain Company was not his Abided , But in his Closet with his God . XII . For Rich and Poor he did not mind , Alike to both he was inclin'd ; Nothing could make him to delay ; No sooner ask'd but went away . XIII . Unto his Flock tender Regard he boar , Of their Souls he had a special Care , No human Man sure could do more , His Flock to keep , since to abhor . XIV . His Flock in Tears does him condole , To think they lost so brave a Soul ; Which God did bliss them so much under , His pious Life was Stockton's Wonder . XV . Both old and young does for him lament , To hear his God for him has sent ; No longer here he would him spare , He had for him a greater Care . XVI . A greater Loss ne'er came to this Place , Than that of worthy Thomson's Face ; Oh! had he liv'd longer Years to seen , His Flock had almost happy been . XVII . But o alas ! that must not be , His God did love him tenderly ; And now his God has sent for him , In heavenly Joys with him to swim . XVIII . His Doctrine it was pure indeed , Oh may we in his Paths all tread ; His Conversation and Life did shine , With Piety that was divine . XIX . No Minister that ere was placed Among his Flock that was more graced , Most of the Clergy he led the Van , More like and Angel than a Man. XX . By all Professions he was loved , Unto all his Pity meekly moved , That was to us a Day of Woe , His God call'd him hence for to go . XXI . O Thompson learned Thomspson thou , Now's gone and bids us all adieu ; Oh may our Souls all be like thine , That does now in Glory shine . XXII . Thy God thy God delights in thee , And from thy Troubles set thee free , For thee his precious Blood he shed , And now he is become thy Head. XXIII . When we his vacant Pulpit see , Those worthy Sermons preach'd by thee , With Sorrows we do hang our Head , Saying all Comfort's from us fled . XXIV . Last Text preach'd worthy Thompson dear , Which makes me shed many a Tear , My God is good , come taste and see , [ Psal. XXXIV . 8 . ] Which now he does to all Eternity . XXV . Now to his heavenly Joys he's gone , All that knew him does for him moan , Where far from Noise and Troubles free , Now Praises he sings to all Eternity . XXVI . O you his Flock that did him hear , With a ready and attentive Ear , In his blessed Paths do all you tread , At last be Heirs of Glory made . XXVII . O Lord grant his Hearers all , Especially those that gives a Call , His vocant Pulpit may get one , Like pious Thompson , now that's gone . His EPITAPH . Here lies his Dust interred full low , His Soul immediately does go , Into these heavenly Joys above , And there to sing redeeming Love . 