The Fair and Loyal Maid of Bristow . Dame Fortune on this Maiden frown'd , That once on her did smile , She was in tears of sorrow drown'd , That death did her beguile . To the Tune of , Jenny Ginn , Or , Busy Fame . THere liv'd in Bristol City fair , a Maiden fair and bright , To whom a Seaman did repair she was his hearts delight , No comfort had he in this life , when she was from him gone , 'Twas she he vow'd should be his wife and her he doted on . But Fortune did upon them frown , that once on them did smile , And she [ tO ] hat did these Lovers Crown , at last did them beguile : And to Virginia he must go , his fortune to advance , Which did procure their overthrow O sad unhappy chance . And at his parting showers of tears , came trickling from their eyes , She was possessed with deadly fears and doubt did her surprise : lest he should ne'r return again , to Crown her Nuptial day , And as she sadly did complain , thus he to her did say . Cease , cease , my dear do not complain , I'le faithful be to you , And let me perish on the main , If e're I prove untrue : And with a thousand Kisses I , my faithful promise Seal , While she perceived from his eye , a trickling tear to steal . More faithful Lovers ever could , in this same Land be found , She that was made of Beautys mould , in virtues did abound : And down upon her bent knee , this lovely dame did fallen , And pray'd for his prosperity , with his return and all . So to the brackish Seas with speed , this Loyal Seaman went , Which did in her much trouble breed , and caus'd her disconten For e're he to Virginia came , he lost his dearest life , And ne'r returned to her again , to espouse her as his wife . But this to her was still unknown , in vain did she expect ; Her true and faithful Lover home , whom she did so affect , But oft to Dundree Hill she went , to see ships under Sail , Where she most sadly did lament , and Courage then did fail , Ah me of all unfortunate , thus to her self she said , I fear that cruel rigid fate , hath struck my true Love dead , But if it prove for to be true , that my dear Love is gone , All comforts then I'le bid adieu , alas I'me quite undone . I'le melt away , in brinish tears , mine eyes no more shall close , And I'le add sorrow to my fears , all Comforts I'le oppose : I'le have a Motto on my Tomb , shall make true Lovers mourn , 'Till for my sake they shall consume , and languish here forlorn . At last the tidings to her came , that her true Love was dead , And to the world she did proclaim , her joys were gone and fled : No comfort in this world she took , but night and day she cry'd , She was of blessings quite forsook , and so poor soul she dy'd . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near the Hospital-Gate in Smithfield . The Fair and Loyal Maid of Bristow . Dame Fortune on this Maiden frown'd , That once on her did smile , She was in tears of sorrow drown'd , That death did her beguile . To the Tune of , Jenny Ginn , Or , Busy Fame . THere liv'd in Bristol City fair , a Maiden fair and bright , To whom a Seaman did repair she was his hearts delight , No comfort had he in this life , when she was from him gone , 'Twas she he vow'd should be his wife and her he doted on . But Fortune did upon them frown , that once on them did smile , And she [ tO ] hat did these Lovers Crown , at last did them beguile : And to Virginia he must go , his fortune to advance , Which did procure their overthrow O sad unhappy chance . And at his parting showers of tears , came trickling from their eyes , She was possessed with deadly fears and doubt did her surprise : lest he should ne'r return again , to Crown her Nuptial day , And as she sadly did complain , thus he to her did say . Cease , cease , my dear do not complain , I'le faithful be to you , And let me perish on the main , If e're I prove untrue : And with a thousand Kisses I , my faithful promise Seal , While she perceived from his eye , a trickling tear to steal . More faithful Lovers ever could , in this same Land be found , She that was made of Beautys mould , in virtues did abound : And down upon her bent knee , this lovely dame did fallen , And pray'd for his prosperity , with his return and all . So to the brackish Seas with speed , this Loyal Seaman went , Which did in her much trouble breed , and caus'd her disconten For e're he to Virginia came , he lost his dearest life , And ne'r returned to her again , to espouse her as his wife . But this to her was still unknown , in vain did she expect ; Her true and faithful Lover home , whom she did so affect , But oft to Dundree Hill she went , to see ships under Sail , Where she most sadly did lament , and Courage then did fail , Ah me of all unfortunate , thus to her self she said , I fear that cruel rigid fate , hath struck my true Love dead , But if it prove for to be true , that my dear Love is gone , All comforts then I'le bid adieu , alas I'me quite undone . I'le melt away , in brinish tears , mine eyes no more shall close , And I'le add sorrow to my fears , all Comforts I'le oppose : I'le have a Motto on my Tomb , shall make true Lovers mourn , 'Till for my sake they shall consume , and languish here forlorn . At last the tidings to her came , that her true Love was dead , And to the world she did proclaim , her joys were gone and fled : No comfort in this world she took , but night and day she cry'd , She was of blessings quite forsook , and so poor soul she dy'd . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near the Hospital-Gate in Smithfield . The Fair and Loyal Maid of Bristow . Dame Fortune on this Maiden frown'd , That once on her did smile , She was in tears of sorrow drown'd , That death did her beguile . To the Tune of , Jenny Ginn , Or , Busy Fame . THere liv'd in Bristol City fair , a Maiden fair and bright , To whom a Seaman did repair she was his hearts delight , No comfort had he in this life , when she was from him gone , 'Twas she he vow'd should be his wife and her he doted on . But Fortune did upon them frown , that once on them did smile , And she [ tO ] hat did these Lovers Crown , at last did them beguile : And to Virginia he must go , his fortune to advance , Which did procure their overthrow O sad unhappy chance . And at his parting showers of tears , came trickling from their eyes , She was possessed with deadly fears and doubt did her surprise : lest he should ne'r return again , to Crown her Nuptial day , And as she sadly did complain , thus he to her did say . Cease , cease , my dear do not complain , I'le faithful be to you , And let me perish on the main , If e're I prove untrue : And with a thousand Kisses I , my faithful promise Seal , While she perceived from his eye , a trickling tear to steal . More faithful Lovers ever could , in this same Land be found , She that was made of Beautys mould , in virtues did abound : And down upon her bent knee , this lovely dame did fallen , And pray'd for his prosperity , with his return and all . So to the brackish Seas with speed , this Loyal Seaman went , Which did in her much trouble breed , and caus'd her disconten For e're he to Virginia came , he lost his dearest life , And ne'r returned to her again , to espouse her as his wife . But this to her was still unknown , in vain did she expect ; Her true and faithful Lover home , whom she did so affect , But oft to Dundree Hill she went , to see ships under Sail , Where she most sadly did lament , and Courage then did fail , Ah me of all unfortunate , thus to her self she said , I fear that cruel rigid fate , hath struck my true Love dead , But if it prove for to be true , that my dear Love is gone , All comforts then I'le bid adieu , alas I'me quite undone . I'le melt away , in brinish tears , mine eyes no more shall close , And I'le add sorrow to my fears , all Comforts I'le oppose : I'le have a Motto on my Tomb , shall make true Lovers mourn , 'Till for my sake they shall consume , and languish here forlorn . At last the tidings to her came , that her true Love was dead , And to the world she did proclaim , her joys were gone and fled : No comfort in this world she took , but night and day she cry'd , She was of blessings quite forsook , and so poor soul she dy'd . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near the Hospital-Gate in Smithfield . The Fair and Loyal Maid of Bristow . Dame Fortune on this Maiden frown'd , That once on her did smile , She was in tears of sorrow drown'd , That death did her beguile . To the Tune of , Jenny Ginn , Or , Busy Fame . THere liv'd in Bristol City fair , a Maiden fair and bright , To whom a Seaman did repair she was his hearts delight , No comfort had he in this life , when she was from him gone , 'Twas she he vow'd should be his wife and her he doted on . But Fortune did upon them frown , that once on them did smile , And she [ tO ] hat did these Lovers Crown , at last did them beguile : And to Virginia he must go , his fortune to advance , Which did procure their overthrow O sad unhappy chance . And at his parting showers of tears , came trickling from their eyes , She was possessed with deadly fears and doubt did her surprise : lest he should ne'r return again , to Crown her Nuptial day , And as she sadly did complain , thus he to her did say . Cease , cease , my dear do not complain , I'le faithful be to you , And let me perish on the main , If e're I prove untrue : And with a thousand Kisses I , my faithful promise Seal , While she perceived from his eye , a trickling tear to steal . More faithful Lovers ever could , in this same Land be found , She that was made of Beautys mould , in virtues did abound : And down upon her bent knee , this lovely dame did fallen , And pray'd for his prosperity , with his return and all . So to the brackish Seas with speed , this Loyal Seaman went , Which did in her much trouble breed , and caus'd her disconten For e're he to Virginia came , he lost his dearest life , And ne'r returned to her again , to espouse her as his wife . But this to her was still unknown , in vain did she expect ; Her true and faithful Lover home , whom she did so affect , But oft to Dundree Hill she went , to see ships under Sail , Where she most sadly did lament , and Courage then did fail , Ah me of all unfortunate , thus to her self she said , I fear that cruel rigid fate , hath struck my true Love dead , But if it prove for to be true , that my dear Love is gone , All comforts then I'le bid adieu , alas I'me quite undone . I'le melt away , in brinish tears , mine eyes no more shall close , And I'le add sorrow to my fears , all Comforts I'le oppose : I'le have a Motto on my Tomb , shall make true Lovers mourn , 'Till for my sake they shall consume , and languish here forlorn . At last the tidings to her came , that her true Love was dead , And to the world she did proclaim , her joys were gone and fled : No comfort in this world she took , but night and day she cry'd , She was of blessings quite forsook , and so poor soul she dy'd . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near the Hospital-Gate in Smithfield . 