The Disdainful Virgin led Captive : OR , Cupid's Triumph over Pride : BEING Rosilinda's Warning-piece to all ambitious Females ; or , Self-admiring Lasses . A most Delightful New Play Song : Fair Rosilinda Lovers does disdain , Till Cupids Shaft does wound her with loves pain , A Favour then does seize on every part , And makes a Conquest o're her stubborn hear While she confesses , and for pardon sues , Who late disdain'd , now most submissive wooes : So powerful is Loves Sceptre , such command It claims , that none against its force can stand . To a New playhouse Tune , Viz. Ah cruel Bloody Fate , etc BRight as the Noonday Sun , the Nymph she sat a while , And then she thus begun , while that a pleasing Smile , O're spread the Beauty's of her Face , as when the Morning Light , Does guild the Skies , With its Uprise , and puts the Shades to fligh [ tO . ] Alas how am I Wooed , what Conquests do I gain ! She cry'd , by Love pursu'd , while Lovers suffer pain : Yet I am Coy and will not yield , unto Loves powerful Dart , But do prevail , 'Gainst all that assail , and make them feel the smart . No sooner this Loves God , herd the proud Nymph proclaim , But from his high abode , as swift as Lightning came : And from his Quiver drew a Shaft , pointed with strong Desire ; Which in her Breast , He did fix so fast , as kindl'd there Loves fire . At which she starting , cry'd , ah me ! what change is this , I'm like a Phoenix try'd , yet know not what to wish : Ah! pity , now , Loves God she sigh'd , I have Rebellious been ; Unto thy Power , Which I now must adore , and bow before Loves Queen . Stay gentle Cupid heal the wound that thou hast made , My weakness i'le reveal , the Lovesick Nymph then said : Then from her Breast a Burning sighs , she breath'd and blush'd for shame , To be o're power'd Who so lately tower'd , in triumph o're Loves flame . Then from her bright eyes fell , a shower of Christial tears , Alas ! must I now dwell , she cry'd , amid these Cares : Ah me ! to Love , and know not whom , possess'd with strange Desires , While my Delight , Has all taken flight , Sweet Cupid quench these fires . Send me a Lover now , to ease my cruel smart , Level thy Conquering Bow , at some kind Youth , whose heart Apply'd to mine , may take away the Favour that has seiz'd : That so my pain , May no longer remain , but I may find some ease . Too fierce , too fierce-wing God , thy Arrows do consume , And with fresh wounds so load , till more can find no room : Sweet Venus pity now , she cry'd , I yield unto thy might ; Nor can I bear , Chastisements severe , o wreck not thus thy spite . My Crime I now confess , and lay ambition down , No more shall Pride possess , my Beauty I disown : Come then kind Youth who e're thou a [ rt ] for whom unknown I burn , That I in thee , Now may Happy be , before I Ashes turn . Virgins take warning now , ( she sigh'd ) and be not proud , But kindness still allow , when Love to you is vow'd : Oh! set not by your gaudy Blooms , lest Cupids anger rise , And then like me , Will such Beauty's be , his Flaming sacrifice . Printed for J. Jordan , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-Street , without Newgate . The Disdainful Virgin led Captive : OR , Cupid's Triumph over Pride : BEING Rosilinda's Warning-piece to all ambitious Females ; or , Self-admiring Lasses . A most Delightful New Play Song : Fair Rosilinda Lovers does disdain , Till Cupids Shaft does wound her with loves pain , A Favour then does seize on every part , And makes a Conquest o're her stubborn hear While she confesses , and for pardon sues , Who late disdain'd , now most submissive wooes : So powerful is Loves Sceptre , such command It claims , that none against its force can stand . To a New playhouse Tune , Viz. Ah cruel Bloody Fate , etc BRight as the Noonday Sun , the Nymph she sat a while , And then she thus begun , while that a pleasing Smile , O're spread the Beauty's of her Face , as when the Morning Light , Does guild the Skies , With its Uprise , and puts the Shades to fligh [ tO . ] Alas how am I Wooed , what Conquests do I gain ! She cry'd , by Love pursu'd , while Lovers suffer pain : Yet I am Coy and will not yield , unto Loves powerful Dart , But do prevail , 'Gainst all that assail , and make them feel the smart . No sooner this Loves God , herd the proud Nymph proclaim , But from his high abode , as swift as Lightning came : And from his Quiver drew a Shaft , pointed with strong Desire ; Which in her Breast , He did fix so fast , as kindl'd there Loves fire . At which she starting , cry'd , ah me ! what change is this , I'm like a Phoenix try'd , yet know not what to wish : Ah! pity , now , Loves God she sigh'd , I have Rebellious been ; Unto thy Power , Which I now must adore , and bow before Loves Queen . Stay gentle Cupid heal the wound that thou hast made , My weakness i'le reveal , the Lovesick Nymph then said : Then from her Breast a Burning sighs , she breath'd and blush'd for shame , To be o're power'd Who so lately tower'd , in triumph o're Loves flame . Then from her bright eyes fell , a shower of Christial tears , Alas ! must I now dwell , she cry'd , amid these Cares : Ah me ! to Love , and know not whom , possess'd with strange Desires , While my Delight , Has all taken flight , Sweet Cupid quench these fires . Send me a Lover now , to ease my cruel smart , Level thy Conquering Bow , at some kind Youth , whose heart Apply'd to mine , may take away the Favour that has seiz'd : That so my pain , May no longer remain , but I may find some ease . Too fierce , too fierce-wing God , thy Arrows do consume , And with fresh wounds so load , till more can find no room : Sweet Venus pity now , she cry'd , I yield unto thy might ; Nor can I bear , Chastisements severe , o wreck not thus thy spite . My Crime I now confess , and lay ambition down , No more shall Pride possess , my Beauty I disown : Come then kind Youth who e're thou a [ rt ] for whom unknown I burn , That I in thee , Now may Happy be , before I Ashes turn . Virgins take warning now , ( she sigh'd ) and be not proud , But kindness still allow , when Love to you is vow'd : Oh! set not by your gaudy Blooms , lest Cupids anger rise , And then like me , Will such Beauty's be , his Flaming sacrifice . Printed for J. Jordan , at the Angel , in Guilt-spur-Street , without Newgate . 