MONTROSE'S LYNES ( 43 ) or A Proper New BALLAD , To the Tune of I'le never Love thee more . MY dear and only love I pray that little World of thee , Be govern'd by no other sway , but purest Monarchy . For if Confusion have a part , which virtuous souls abhor I'le call a Synod in my heart , and never love thee more . As Alexander I will reign , and I will reign alone ; My thoughts did ever yet disdain a Rival on my Throne , He either fears his fate too much , or his deserts are small , That dares not put it to the touch , to gain or loose at all . But I will reign and govern still , and always give the Law And have each Subject at my will , and all to stand in aw : But 'gainst my Batteries if I find thou kick or vex me soar , And that thou set me up a blind , I'le never love thee more , And in the Empire of thy heart where I should solely be If others do pretend a part , or dares to share with me : Or Committees if thou erect , and go on such a score : I'le laugh and smile at thy neglect , and never love thee more . But if thou will prove faithful then , and constant in thy word , I'le make thee glorious by my Pen , and famous by my Sword . I'le serve thee in such Noble sort was never herd before , I'le crown and deck thy head with bays and love thee more and more . The Second Part. My dear and only love take heed how thou thy self expose , Let not a longing Lovers feed upon such looks as those : I'le marble wall thee round about , my self shall be the door , And if thy heart chance to slide out , I'le never love thee more . Let not thy oaths like volies shot , make any breach at all , Nor smoothness of their language plot which way to scale the wall ; Nor balls of Wildfire love consume the Shrine which I adore , For If such smoke about thee foam , I'le never love thee more . I know thy virtues be too strong to suffer by surprise ; If that thou slights their love so long , their siege at last will rise , And leave thee conqueror in thy health and state thou was before , And if thou prove a common wealth I'le never love thee more . But if by fraud , or by deceit , thy heart to ruin come , I'le found no Trumpet as I wont , nor march by tuck of Drum : But hold my arms as Ensigns up , thy falsehood to deplore ; And after sighs , and bitter weep , that e're I lov'd so soar . I'le do with thee as Nero did , when Room he set on fire : Not only all relief forbid but to and hill retire : And scorn to shed a tear to save thy spirit grown so poor , But laugh and smile thee to thy grave and never love thee more . Then shall my heart be set by thine , but in far different case , For mine was true ; so was not thine but looked like Janus face : Thy beauty shin'd at first so bright and woe is me therefore , That e're I found the love so bright , that I could love no more . My heart shall with the Sun be fixed , for constancy most strange ; And thine shall with thee Moon be mixed delighting still in change : For as thou waves with every wind , and sails through every shore . And leaves my constant heart behind , how can I love thee more ? Yet for the love I bore thee once , lest that thy Name should die ; A monument of Marble stone , the truth shall testify ; That every Pilgrim passing by may pity and deplore ; And sighing read the reason why I cannot love thee more . The golden Laws of love shall be , upon these Pillars hung , A single heart , a simple eye , a true and constant tongue , Let no man for mere loves pretend , that he hath hearts in store : True love begun will never end , love one and love no more . And when all gallants led about , this Monument to view , It's written both within and out , thou'rt treacherous I true : Then in a passion they shall pause , and thus lie sighing soar , Alas he had too just a cause , never to love thee more . And when the tressing gods do face , from East to West does flee , They shall record it to thy shame ; how thou hast loved me : And how in odds our loves been such as few hath been before , Thou lov'd too many , I too much : that I can love no more . The misty mounts , the smoking lake's , the Rocks resounding echo , The whistling winds , the woods that shake , shall all with me sing heigh ho : The toasting seas , the tumbling boats , tears drooping from each Oar , Shall tune with me their turtle notes , I'le never love thee more . Yet as the turtle chaste and true , her fellow so regrates , And daily sighs for her adieu , that ne're renews her notes . But though thy faith was never fast , which grieves me wondrous soar , Yet I shall live in love so chaste , that I shall love no more . FINIS . MONTROSE'S LYNES ( 43 ) or A Proper New BALLAD , To the Tune of I'le never Love thee more . MY dear and only love I pray that little World of thee , Be govern'd by no other sway , but purest Monarchy . For if Confusion have a part , which virtuous souls abhor I'le call a Synod in my heart , and never love thee more . As Alexander I will reign , and I will reign alone ; My thoughts did ever yet disdain a Rival on my Throne , He either fears his fate too much , or his deserts are small , That dares not put it to the touch , to gain or loose at all . But I will reign and govern still , and always give the Law And have each Subject at my will , and all to stand in aw : But 'gainst my Batteries if I find thou kick or vex me soar , And that thou set me up a blind , I'le never love thee more , And in the Empire of thy heart where I should solely be If others do pretend a part , or dares to share with me : Or Committees if thou erect , and go on such a score : I'le laugh and smile at thy neglect , and never love thee more . But if thou will prove faithful then , and constant in thy word , I'le make thee glorious by my Pen , and famous by my Sword . I'le serve thee in such Noble sort was never herd before , I'le crown and deck thy head with bays and love thee more and more . The Second Part. My dear and only love take heed how thou thy self expose , Let not a longing Lovers feed upon such looks as those : I'le marble wall thee round about , my self shall be the door , And if thy heart chance to slide out , I'le never love thee more . Let not thy oaths like volies shot , make any breach at all , Nor smoothness of their language plot which way to scale the wall ; Nor balls of Wildfire love consume the Shrine which I adore , For If such smoke about thee foam , I'le never love thee more . I know thy virtues be too strong to suffer by surprise ; If that thou slights their love so long , their siege at last will rise , And leave thee conqueror in thy health and state thou was before , And if thou prove a common wealth I'le never love thee more . But if by fraud , or by deceit , thy heart to ruin come , I'le found no Trumpet as I wont , nor march by tuck of Drum : But hold my arms as Ensigns up , thy falsehood to deplore ; And after sighs , and bitter weep , that e're I lov'd so soar . I'le do with thee as Nero did , when Room he set on fire : Not only all relief forbid but to and hill retire : And scorn to shed a tear to save thy spirit grown so poor , But laugh and smile thee to thy grave and never love thee more . Then shall my heart be set by thine , but in far different case , For mine was true ; so was not thine but looked like Janus face : Thy beauty shin'd at first so bright and woe is me therefore , That e're I found the love so bright , that I could love no more . My heart shall with the Sun be fixed , for constancy most strange ; And thine shall with thee Moon be mixed delighting still in change : For as thou waves with every wind , and sails through every shore . And leaves my constant heart behind , how can I love thee more ? Yet for the love I bore thee once , lest that thy Name should die ; A monument of Marble stone , the truth shall testify ; That every Pilgrim passing by may pity and deplore ; And sighing read the reason why I cannot love thee more . The golden Laws of love shall be , upon these Pillars hung , A single heart , a simple eye , a true and constant tongue , Let no man for mere loves pretend , that he hath hearts in store : True love begun will never end , love one and love no more . And when all gallants led about , this Monument to view , It's written both within and out , thou'rt treacherous I true : Then in a passion they shall pause , and thus lie sighing soar , Alas he had too just a cause , never to love thee more . And when the tressing gods do face , from East to West does flee , They shall record it to thy shame ; how thou hast loved me : And how in odds our loves been such as few hath been before , Thou lov'd too many , I too much : that I can love no more . The misty mounts , the smoking lake's , the Rocks resounding echo , The whistling winds , the woods that shake , shall all with me sing heigh ho : The toasting seas , the tumbling boats , tears drooping from each Oar , Shall tune with me their turtle notes , I'le never love thee more . Yet as the turtle chaste and true , her fellow so regrates , And daily sighs for her adieu , that ne're renews her notes . But though thy faith was never fast , which grieves me wondrous soar , Yet I shall live in love so chaste , that I shall love no more . FINIS . 