THE Disconsolate Nymph . NOW I'll pull off my green gown of velvet , And will put on my livery blue . Since my false lover he has forsaken me , Now he has changed me for a new . Don't you remember the vows that you made me , When in the shades by ourselves all alone ? Then you betray'd me of my dear virginity , Now you have left me to make my moan . I little thought that you'd have slighted me , When you pretended such love unto me . Tho' with deceitfulness you have requited me , There is another as good as thee . In the fine groves , and sweet-smelling bowers , With thee I spent many a summer's day ; On the banks of sweet fragrant flowers , Like pretty lambs we did often play . Then you betray'd me of my dear virginity , The which has caused my belly to swell . Here in this grove I will range for the sake of thee , Falsehearted youngman , adieu , farewell . The time will come when you will be rewarded , For thus your slighting me with disdain . Go , go , you false and purjured young man , Never , never , will I trust man again . The ANSWER DRY up your tears , my sweet amorous jewel , None in the world I adore but thee ; You thought that I was deceitful and cruel , But my dear creature shall happy be . Tho' little Cupid shot pretty darts to thee , Venus , his mother , thy heart did trepan . Altho' I stole thy precious virginity , I'll act the part of and honest man . Jewel , thy amorous charms are inviting , Thou art the girl whom I adore . In none but thee I'll ever delight in , What can my heart desire more ? Since your love to me is so tender , Mine shall ever be so to thee . All that I have to thee I'll surrender , And you my honour'd bride shall be . You are in my thoughts love sleeping , In thy sweet arms I shall happy be ; Thy complaint to me was heart-breaking , Now I am returned to comfort thee . We will this day be happily wedded , And my sweet bride I will adore . Such sweet enjoyments , when we are bedded , You'll be for taking it more and more . THE Disconsolate Nymph . NOW I'll pull off my green gown of velvet , And will put on my livery blue . Since my false lover he has forsaken me , Now he has changed me for a new . Don't you remember the vows that you made me , When in the shades by ourselves all alone ? Then you betray'd me of my dear virginity , Now you have left me to make my moan . I little thought that you'd have slighted me , When you pretended such love unto me . Tho' with deceitfulness you have requited me , There is another as good as thee . In the fine groves , and sweet-smelling bowers , With thee I spent many a summer's day ; On the banks of sweet fragrant flowers , Like pretty lambs we did often play . Then you betray'd me of my dear virginity , The which has caused my belly to swell . Here in this grove I will range for the sake of thee , Falsehearted youngman , adieu , farewell . The time will come when you will be rewarded , For thus your slighting me with disdain . Go , go , you false and purjured young man , Never , never , will I trust man again . The ANSWER DRY up your tears , my sweet amorous jewel , None in the world I adore but thee ; You thought that I was deceitful and cruel , But my dear creature shall happy be . Tho' little Cupid shot pretty darts to thee , Venus , his mother , thy heart did trepan . Altho' I stole thy precious virginity , I'll act the part of and honest man . Jewel , thy amorous charms are inviting , Thou art the girl whom I adore . In none but thee I'll ever delight in , What can my heart desire more ? Since your love to me is so tender , Mine shall ever be so to thee . All that I have to thee I'll surrender , And you my honour'd bride shall be . You are in my thoughts love sleeping , In thy sweet arms I shall happy be ; Thy complaint to me was heart-breaking , Now I am returned to comfort thee . We will this day be happily wedded , And my sweet bride I will adore . Such sweet enjoyments , when we are bedded , You'll be for taking it more and more . 