And Excellent New Song Entitled Bonny Jean of Aberdeen . MY bonny Jean long have I been a seeking thee from morn to e'en ; Thy bonny face so full of grace the like is not in Aberdeen . I was as brisk as any lad when first thy bonny face I saw Come fit thee down my bonny maid and give to me kiss or twa . A kiss or twa if I should give I know not how it may be taken , For suddenly you'd me betray , 'tis better for to lie alane , First you must seek and I'll say nay , you know a woman's modesty Come slide your hand about my neck , when I cry cease , let me not be . What would I give ( I tell the truth , ) for one sweet kiss of thee my dear For all the pleasures of this earth , there's nothing can with thee compare . Thy cherry cheeks thy coal black hair a brisker lass was never seen , There's none with thee that can compare in Edinburgh or Aberdeen . When first thy bonny face I saw , such charming eyes were never seen ; Thou art the true prospect of grace the like is not in Aberdeen . Thy beauty fair does me ensnare , since e'er I saw your bonny face , Therefore my dear you need not fear , to grant me that charming bliss . Since I have houses and lands enough , to portion me with any man , If you should take your word and rue what should become of Jenny then ? If you have lands at your command a good housewife you then shall be I think then for a priest we'll send and then my dear we'll married be . My bonny Jean where have you been and thy minny seeking thee ; I have been down in yonder green kissing Jockey , and Jockey me . My minny sent me to the well , the night was dark I could not see My foot did slip and then I fell , and Jockey fell on the top of me , My bonny Jean thou goes with bairn , say the lass , how can that be , For he lay ne're a night with me , But six and seven four and three . But if he be cunning , I'll be crafty , if he be crafty , I'll be sly ; If he were the bonniest lad in the land , he'll ne're get another bairn with me . And Excellent New Song Entitled Bonny Jean of Aberdeen . MY bonny Jean long have I been a seeking thee from morn to e'en ; Thy bonny face so full of grace the like is not in Aberdeen . I was as brisk as any lad when first thy bonny face I saw Come fit thee down my bonny maid and give to me kiss or twa . A kiss or twa if I should give I know not how it may be taken , For suddenly you'd me betray , 'tis better for to lie alane , First you must seek and I'll say nay , you know a woman's modesty Come slide your hand about my neck , when I cry cease , let me not be . What would I give ( I tell the truth , ) for one sweet kiss of thee my dear For all the pleasures of this earth , there's nothing can with thee compare . Thy cherry cheeks thy coal black hair a brisker lass was never seen , There's none with thee that can compare in Edinburgh or Aberdeen . When first thy bonny face I saw , such charming eyes were never seen ; Thou art the true prospect of grace the like is not in Aberdeen . Thy beauty fair does me ensnare , since e'er I saw your bonny face , Therefore my dear you need not fear , to grant me that charming bliss . Since I have houses and lands enough , to portion me with any man , If you should take your word and rue what should become of Jenny then ? If you have lands at your command a good housewife you then shall be I think then for a priest we'll send and then my dear we'll married be . My bonny Jean where have you been and thy minny seeking thee ; I have been down in yonder green kissing Jockey , and Jockey me . My minny sent me to the well , the night was dark I could not see My foot did slip and then I fell , and Jockey fell on the top of me , My bonny Jean thou goes with bairn , say the lass , how can that be , For he lay ne're a night with me , But six and seven four and three . But if he be cunning , I'll be crafty , if he be crafty , I'll be sly ; If he were the bonniest lad in the land , he'll ne're get another bairn with me . 