And Excellent New Ballad , Entitled , Mar's Lament for his Rebellion . To the Tune of , Now comes on the Glorious Year . NOble Argyle when he went on , while Drums did rattle and Trumpet found Come Brave Boys we'l stand our Ground , for Three to One we'l fight them . As soon as Mar did see the same , he cried aloud with Grief and Woe , We are not able to fight our Foe , let us turn back with Mourning . Yonder's Argyle that Champion great , who to our King hath no Respect , With Bombs and Cannons he'l make us quake , Let us for Peace implore him . These Men with Courage bold went on , like Lyons to the Prey each one , For if to the King this thing be known , he'l nobly reward us . Each Man unto the Spoil he got , Some god Plaids and Snuff mills in their Pack , Some had Targets , and some had none to keep them from the Volleys . Says Mar I will to London go , Perhaps the King will Favour show , But Mercy I fear there will be none to such a Rebel as I am . I have wrought Folly in this Land , both Sword and Gun I did command , Out of every Place I fetched a Clan , For to revenge this Quarrel . With Fear and Terror I may dread , what shall be the Exent of this Head Our Land's become a Field of Blood , its all through my Occasion . He brought us from our Native Place , here to suffer much Disgrace , His heavy Curse come on his Face , for he hath wrought our Ruin . All for our King we did appear , our Cries and Groans we thought he'd hear , And for our Laws he would appear , yet he does not regard us . Two Thousand Men from me are gone , to pull the King out of his Throne , But now they are taken every one , they are made to beg for Pardon . Here in St. Johnstoun I do lie , with Sighs and Groans and Tears I cry , I know that many of us shall die , like Dogs we must be hanged . Here I am surrounded about , no Place nor corner can get out , For if to the Fields I should go out , they're at my Heels pursuing . For if to the Highlands I should flee , there will be no Refuge for me , No Cove , no Grove , no Rock I see , to keep me from their Fury . Argyle he is so Valiant still , that many of my Men he'l kill , Upon me he advances still , at length he will undo me . He with his Mighty Cannon Balls , he'l batter down both Towns and Walls , And many of my Captains falls , they bleedingly before him . Certainly we have all been mad , first when that Bargain we had made ; He'l send us neither Help nor Aid , to keep us from their Fury . My Rebellious Weapons I'll lay down , and will be Subject to the Crown , To all Generations its be known , that I shall still be Loyal . Our horrid Plots we did contrive , thinking the King for to deprive , But none of our Designs did thrive , they were so ill contrived . We were forty thousand in this Land , all bound by Association Band , We thought we would get Help at hand , but France has us deceived . A bold Attempt indeed we did make , when the Castle we design'd to take , But all did prove to no Effect , our Plots were all discover'd . We know not which way now to turn , for our Magazine's all destroy'd and burn'd , For all our Projects are backward turn'd , we've wrought our own Confusion , FINIS . And Excellent New Ballad , Entitled , Mar's Lament for his Rebellion . To the Tune of , Now comes on the Glorious Year . NOble Argyle when he went on , while Drums did rattle and Trumpet found Come Brave Boys we'l stand our Ground , for Three to One we'l fight them . As soon as Mar did see the same , he cried aloud with Grief and Woe , We are not able to fight our Foe , let us turn back with Mourning . Yonder's Argyle that Champion great , who to our King hath no Respect , With Bombs and Cannons he'l make us quake , Let us for Peace implore him . These Men with Courage bold went on , like Lyons to the Prey each one , For if to the King this thing be known , he'l nobly reward us . Each Man unto the Spoil he got , Some god Plaids and Snuff mills in their Pack , Some had Targets , and some had none to keep them from the Volleys . Says Mar I will to London go , Perhaps the King will Favour show , But Mercy I fear there will be none to such a Rebel as I am . I have wrought Folly in this Land , both Sword and Gun I did command , Out of every Place I fetched a Clan , For to revenge this Quarrel . With Fear and Terror I may dread , what shall be the Exent of this Head Our Land's become a Field of Blood , its all through my Occasion . He brought us from our Native Place , here to suffer much Disgrace , His heavy Curse come on his Face , for he hath wrought our Ruin . All for our King we did appear , our Cries and Groans we thought he'd hear , And for our Laws he would appear , yet he does not regard us . Two Thousand Men from me are gone , to pull the King out of his Throne , But now they are taken every one , they are made to beg for Pardon . Here in St. Johnstoun I do lie , with Sighs and Groans and Tears I cry , I know that many of us shall die , like Dogs we must be hanged . Here I am surrounded about , no Place nor corner can get out , For if to the Fields I should go out , they're at my Heels pursuing . For if to the Highlands I should flee , there will be no Refuge for me , No Cove , no Grove , no Rock I see , to keep me from their Fury . Argyle he is so Valiant still , that many of my Men he'l kill , Upon me he advances still , at length he will undo me . He with his Mighty Cannon Balls , he'l batter down both Towns and Walls , And many of my Captains falls , they bleedingly before him . Certainly we have all been mad , first when that Bargain we had made ; He'l send us neither Help nor Aid , to keep us from their Fury . My Rebellious Weapons I'll lay down , and will be Subject to the Crown , To all Generations its be known , that I shall still be Loyal . Our horrid Plots we did contrive , thinking the King for to deprive , But none of our Designs did thrive , they were so ill contrived . We were forty thousand in this Land , all bound by Association Band , We thought we would get Help at hand , but France has us deceived . A bold Attempt indeed we did make , when the Castle we design'd to take , But all did prove to no Effect , our Plots were all discover'd . We know not which way now to turn , for our Magazine's all destroy'd and burn'd , For all our Projects are backward turn'd , we've wrought our own Confusion , FINIS . 