Robin Hood , Will Scarlet , and Little John : Or , a Narrative of the Victory obtain'd against the Prince of Arragon and the two Giants ; and how Will Scarlet Married the Princess . Tune of , Robin Hood . NOW Robin hood Will Scarlet and Little John are walking over the plain , With a good fat Buck which Will Scarlet , with his strong bow had slave . Jog on , jog on , cries Robin hood , the day it runs full fast . For though my Nephew me a break fast gave , I have not broke my fast . Then to yonder lodge , let us take our way , I think it wondrous good Where my nephew by my bold Yeomen , shall be welcome unto the green wood , With that he took the bugle horn , full well he could it blow : straight from the woods came ma [ r ] ching down one hundred tal fellow and more . stand , stand to your Arms cries will Scarlet , lo , the enemies are within ken [ tO ] With that Robin hood he laugh'd aloud , cries , they are my bold yeomen , Who when they arriv'd , and Robin espy'd , cry'd master , What is your will ? We thought you had in danger been , your horn did found so shrill . Now nay , now nay quoth Robin hood , the danger is past and gone ; I would have you to welcome my nephew here , that hath paid me two for one . In feasting and sporting they passed the day , till phoebus sunk into the deep ; Then each one to his quarters hy'd , his guard there for to keep Long had they not walked within the green wood , But Robin he was espy'd , Oh a beautiful damsel all alone , that on a black palfry did ride , Her riding suit was of sable hew black ; cyprus over her Face , Through which her ros like cheeks did blush , all with a comely grace . Come tell me the cause thou pretty one : quoth Robin tell me right' From whence thou comest , and whither thou goest , all in this mournful pligh [ tO ] ? From London I came , the damsel reply'd , from London upon the Thames , Which circled is , Oh Grief to tell , besieg'd with foreign arms : By the proud prince of Arragon , who swears by his Martial band , To have the princess to his spouse or else to waste this Land ; Except that Champion can be found , that dare fight three to three ; Against the prince and gainst twain , most horrid for to see ; Whose grisly looks and eyes like brands , strike terror where they come , With serpents hissing on their helms , instead of feather'd plume . The Princess shall be the Victor's prize , the King hath vow'd and said , And he that shall the conquest win , shall have her to his Bride . Now we are four damsels sent abroad , to the East west North and South , To try whose fortune is so good , to find these Champions forth . But all in vain we have sought about , yet none so bold there are , That dare adventure Life and Blood , to free a Lady fair . When is the Day , quoth Robin hood , tell me this , and no more , On Midsummer next , the Damsel said , Which is June the twenty four . With that tears trickled down her Cheeks and silent was her tongue : With sighs and sobs she took her leave , away her palfry sprung : This news struck Robin to the heart , he fell down on the grass , His Actium and his troubled mind , shew'd he perplexed was , Where lies your grief quoth Will Scadlock , Oh master , tell to me ; If the Damsel's eyes has pierc'd your heart , i'll fetch her back to thee . Now nay , now nay quoth Robin hood she does not cause my smart , But it is the poor distressed Princess , that wounds me to the heart . I will go and fight the giants all , to set the Lady free . The Devil take my Soul quoth Little John , if I part with thy company . Must I stay behind quoth Will Scarlet no , no , that must not be , I'll make the third man in the fight , so we shall be three to three . These words cheer'd Robin to the heart joy shon within his face . Within his arms he hug'd them both , and kindly did embrace : Quoth he' we'll put on motley gray , with long staves in our hands , A sc [ r ] ip and bottle by our sides , as come from the holy lands : So may we pass along the highway , none will a [ s ] k from whence we came , But take us Pilgrim's to be , or else some holy men Now they are on their journey gone , as fast as they may spe [ e ] worser , Yet for all haste e'er they arriv'd , the princess forth was ledr To be deliver'd , to the prince . who in the list did stand Prepar'd to fight or else receive . his Lady by the hand With that he walked about the lift , with Giants by his side , Bring forth quoth he your champions . or bring me forth my bride : That [ i ] s is the four and twentieth day , the day prefixed upno , Bring forth my bride , or London burns , I swear by Acaron . Then cries the King and Queen likewise . both weeping as they speak , Lo , we have brought our Daughter dear . whom we are forc'd to forsake , With that stepped out bold Robin Hood , cries , my Liege , it must not be so Such beauty as the fair Princess , is not for a tyrants mow , The Prince he then began to storm , cries , Fool fanitick , baboon , How dares you stop my valour's prize i'll kill thee with a frown . Thou tyrant turk thou infidel , thus Robin began to reply , Thy frowns I scorn ? so here's my gage , and thus I thee defy Here are two little David by , that soon can tame their pride , Then did the King for Armour send , for lances swords and shield ; And thus all three in armour bright , came marching to the field , The trumpets began to found a charge , each singled out his man , Their armr in pieces soon were hew'd , blood sprang from every vain : The prince reached Robin a blow , he struct with might and main , Which forc'd him to reel about the field , as though he had been slave . God amercy quoth Robin for that blow , the quarrel shall soon be tried . This stroke shall show a full divorce , betwixt thee and thy bride , So from his shoulders he cut his head , which on the ground did fallen , And grumble soar at Robin hood , to be so dealt withal . The giants then began to rage , to see their Prince lie dead ; Thou'st be the next quoth Little John ; except thou wilt guard thy head : With that his falchion he whiri'd about , it was both keen and sharp , He cloves the grant to the belt , and cut in twain his heart . Will Scadlock well had played his part , the giant he brought to his knee , Quoth will the Devi [ l ] cannot break his fast , unless he have you all three ; So with his falchion he run him through , a deep and gashly would , who damn'd and foam'd , cursed & blasphem'd , and then fell to the ground , Now all the Lists with shoots were fill'd , the skies they did resound , Which brought the princess to herself , who was fallen in a swooned , The King and Queen and Princess fair , came walking to the place , And gave the champions many Garland . and did them further grace . Tell me , quoth the King , whence you are , that thus disguised came , Who valour spoke that noble Blood does run through every vain A boon , a boon quoth Robin hood , on my knees I beg and crave . By my Crown , quoth the King I grant ask what and thou shalt have . Then pardon I beg for my merry men , which are within the green wood . For Little John , and will Scadlock , and for me bold Robin hood , Art thou Robin hood then ? quoth the King , for the valour thou hath shown , Your pardon I do freely grant , and welcome every one . The princess I promised the Victor's prize , she cannot have you all three , She shall choose quoth Robin , faith Little John then Little share falls to me . Then did tte Princess view all three . with a comely lovely grace , Who took will Scarlet by the hand , said Hear I make my choice . With that a noble lord stepped forth , of Maxfield Earl was he ; Who Looked will Scadlock in the face , then wept most bitterly : Quoth , he I had a Son like thee , whom I lov'd wondrous well , But he is gone , or rather dead , his name is young Gamwell , Then did will Scadlock fallen on his knee : cries Father , Father , here ; Here kneels your Son , your young Gamwell you said , you lov'd so dear . But Lord , What embracing and kissing was there when all these friends Were met ; They're gone to the Wedding , and so to bedding , and so I bid you good night , FINIS . Robin Hood , Will Scarlet , and Little John : Or , a Narrative of the Victory obtain'd against the Prince of Arragon and the two Giants ; and how Will Scarlet Married the Princess . Tune of , Robin Hood . NOW Robin hood Will Scarlet and Little John are walking over the plain , With a good fat Buck which Will Scarlet , with his strong bow had slave . Jog on , jog on , cries Robin hood , the day it runs full fast . For though my Nephew me a break fast gave , I have not broke my fast . Then to yonder lodge , let us take our way , I think it wondrous good Where my nephew by my bold Yeomen , shall be welcome unto the green wood , With that he took the bugle horn , full well he could it blow : straight from the woods came ma [ r ] ching down one hundred tal fellow and more . stand , stand to your Arms cries will Scarlet , lo , the enemies are within ken [ tO ] With that Robin hood he laugh'd aloud , cries , they are my bold yeomen , Who when they arriv'd , and Robin espy'd , cry'd master , What is your will ? We thought you had in danger been , your horn did found so shrill . Now nay , now nay quoth Robin hood , the danger is past and gone ; I would have you to welcome my nephew here , that hath paid me two for one . In feasting and sporting they passed the day , till phoebus sunk into the deep ; Then each one to his quarters hy'd , his guard there for to keep Long had they not walked within the green wood , But Robin he was espy'd , Oh a beautiful damsel all alone , that on a black palfry did ride , Her riding suit was of sable hew black ; cyprus over her Face , Through which her ros like cheeks did blush , all with a comely grace . Come tell me the cause thou pretty one : quoth Robin tell me right' From whence thou comest , and whither thou goest , all in this mournful pligh [ tO ] ? From London I came , the damsel reply'd , from London upon the Thames , Which circled is , Oh Grief to tell , besieg'd with foreign arms : By the proud prince of Arragon , who swears by his Martial band , To have the princess to his spouse or else to waste this Land ; Except that Champion can be found , that dare fight three to three ; Against the prince and gainst twain , most horrid for to see ; Whose grisly looks and eyes like brands , strike terror where they come , With serpents hissing on their helms , instead of feather'd plume . The Princess shall be the Victor's prize , the King hath vow'd and said , And he that shall the conquest win , shall have her to his Bride . Now we are four damsels sent abroad , to the East west North and South , To try whose fortune is so good , to find these Champions forth . But all in vain we have sought about , yet none so bold there are , That dare adventure Life and Blood , to free a Lady fair . When is the Day , quoth Robin hood , tell me this , and no more , On Midsummer next , the Damsel said , Which is June the twenty four . With that tears trickled down her Cheeks and silent was her tongue : With sighs and sobs she took her leave , away her palfry sprung : This news struck Robin to the heart , he fell down on the grass , His Actium and his troubled mind , shew'd he perplexed was , Where lies your grief quoth Will Scadlock , Oh master , tell to me ; If the Damsel's eyes has pierc'd your heart , i'll fetch her back to thee . Now nay , now nay quoth Robin hood she does not cause my smart , But it is the poor distressed Princess , that wounds me to the heart . I will go and fight the giants all , to set the Lady free . The Devil take my Soul quoth Little John , if I part with thy company . Must I stay behind quoth Will Scarlet no , no , that must not be , I'll make the third man in the fight , so we shall be three to three . These words cheer'd Robin to the heart joy shon within his face . Within his arms he hug'd them both , and kindly did embrace : Quoth he' we'll put on motley gray , with long staves in our hands , A sc [ r ] ip and bottle by our sides , as come from the holy lands : So may we pass along the highway , none will a [ s ] k from whence we came , But take us Pilgrim's to be , or else some holy men Now they are on their journey gone , as fast as they may spe [ e ] worser , Yet for all haste e'er they arriv'd , the princess forth was ledr To be deliver'd , to the prince . who in the list did stand Prepar'd to fight or else receive . his Lady by the hand With that he walked about the lift , with Giants by his side , Bring forth quoth he your champions . or bring me forth my bride : That [ i ] s is the four and twentieth day , the day prefixed upno , Bring forth my bride , or London burns , I swear by Acaron . Then cries the King and Queen likewise . both weeping as they speak , Lo , we have brought our Daughter dear . whom we are forc'd to forsake , With that stepped out bold Robin Hood , cries , my Liege , it must not be so Such beauty as the fair Princess , is not for a tyrants mow , The Prince he then began to storm , cries , Fool fanitick , baboon , How dares you stop my valour's prize i'll kill thee with a frown . Thou tyrant turk thou infidel , thus Robin began to reply , Thy frowns I scorn ? so here's my gage , and thus I thee defy Here are two little David by , that soon can tame their pride , Then did the King for Armour send , for lances swords and shield ; And thus all three in armour bright , came marching to the field , The trumpets began to found a charge , each singled out his man , Their armr in pieces soon were hew'd , blood sprang from every vain : The prince reached Robin a blow , he struct with might and main , Which forc'd him to reel about the field , as though he had been slave . God amercy quoth Robin for that blow , the quarrel shall soon be tried . This stroke shall show a full divorce , betwixt thee and thy bride , So from his shoulders he cut his head , which on the ground did fallen , And grumble soar at Robin hood , to be so dealt withal . The giants then began to rage , to see their Prince lie dead ; Thou'st be the next quoth Little John ; except thou wilt guard thy head : With that his falchion he whiri'd about , it was both keen and sharp , He cloves the grant to the belt , and cut in twain his heart . Will Scadlock well had played his part , the giant he brought to his knee , Quoth will the Devi [ l ] cannot break his fast , unless he have you all three ; So with his falchion he run him through , a deep and gashly would , who damn'd and foam'd , cursed & blasphem'd , and then fell to the ground , Now all the Lists with shoots were fill'd , the skies they did resound , Which brought the princess to herself , who was fallen in a swooned , The King and Queen and Princess fair , came walking to the place , And gave the champions many Garland . and did them further grace . Tell me , quoth the King , whence you are , that thus disguised came , Who valour spoke that noble Blood does run through every vain A boon , a boon quoth Robin hood , on my knees I beg and crave . By my Crown , quoth the King I grant ask what and thou shalt have . Then pardon I beg for my merry men , which are within the green wood . For Little John , and will Scadlock , and for me bold Robin hood , Art thou Robin hood then ? quoth the King , for the valour thou hath shown , Your pardon I do freely grant , and welcome every one . The princess I promised the Victor's prize , she cannot have you all three , She shall choose quoth Robin , faith Little John then Little share falls to me . Then did tte Princess view all three . with a comely lovely grace , Who took will Scarlet by the hand , said Hear I make my choice . With that a noble lord stepped forth , of Maxfield Earl was he ; Who Looked will Scadlock in the face , then wept most bitterly : Quoth , he I had a Son like thee , whom I lov'd wondrous well , But he is gone , or rather dead , his name is young Gamwell , Then did will Scadlock fallen on his knee : cries Father , Father , here ; Here kneels your Son , your young Gamwell you said , you lov'd so dear . But Lord , What embracing and kissing was there when all these friends Were met ; They're gone to the Wedding , and so to bedding , and so I bid you good night , FINIS . 