The Cruel COOPER of Ratcliff , In Three Parts . PART I . NEAR Ratcliff-Cross lived a Cooper there , Who had a virtuous wife comely and fair , He by this prudent woman had a son , Beside this youth they children ne'er had one . Though wise and prudent , yet this cruel man , Did oft times beatrice her with a cruel hand , And as he did one day with grief of heart , This youth with tears he took his mother's part . Cries he , father I'm afraid you will , With kicks and cuffs my tender mother kill , Hearing these words he then his son did beatrice , And in the night turned him in the street . Saying , if thou comest here any more , I'll break thy bones , and then he lock'd the door , In the wide street this lad he lay all night , And came in th' morning when it was light . But when this man looked and saw his son , In a vast passion he to him did run ; And with and adz knock'd him on the crown , Which laid the youth sprawling upon the ground . Being thus serv'd , in tears he did lament , Then up he god and out of doors he went , Saying , if I should any longer stay , I fear in wrath he'll take my life away . And to prevent what dangers may ensue , Father and mother he bids both adieu , And having knowledge of his father's trade , Went Cooper's mate to Turkey it is said . H [ e l ] ik'd the country so well we do find , That [ ? ] came back and left the lad behind . He placed himself with a native to dwell , Whose family loved him very well . Though young in years he was grown very tall , And of a comely countenance withal ; The native damsels did him much admire , And to enjoy him some had vast desire . His master kept him for his serving man , And in short time by death's destroying hand , His master happened to tip aw [ a ] y , Who being dead , the young man boar the sway . His mistress lov'd him as she did her life , And in short time was made his lawful wife , She was prodigious rich as we do understand , And he had many slaves at his command Now will I leave him for a little while , With providence on him and her to smile , And in the next part , some enquiry make , What sort of life his cruel sire does take . The Second PART . NEAR Ratcliff cross he lived years 'tis known , And to his wife he was a cruel one , In process of time death did them part , And 'tis supposed this man broke her heart . After her death he could not thrive at all , Day after day he down at heels did fallen , And by degrees this man was brought so low , For debt himself he was afraid to show . The bailiffs waited for him day and night , He knowing of the same kept out of sighed ; And to prevent his going to a g [ oh ] all , In a merchant man he unto the sea did sail . Thus he for debt was forc'd to fly from home , And on the raging seas where billows foam , To their great grief this man and twenty more , Were carried prisoners to the Turkish shore . It happened so as we do understand , They were made slaves under his son's command , Full half a year in slavery he had been , In all which time his son he had not seen . This Cooper he was aged sixty two , Who was the oldest of the wh [ oh ] le ship's crew , Being stiff with age , his task could not perform , By which he suffer'd many a bitter storm . The task master to him was sharp indeed , He often whipped him till he made him bleed , Upon a time he lash'd him so one day , He could no longer stand but down he lay . Being laid down the task master did go , And gave the head master thus to know , Crying , sir , your slave and aged man , Will not perform his task do all I can . He tell me plainly that his work is done , When hearing that the head master his son , Went out among the slaves , where he found , His aged father lying on the ground . Not knowing him with great severity , He lash'd his father very grievously ; Which made him cry , Oh! Sir , my flesh is soar , Do hold thy hand and strike me now no more . The task is hard your servants put on me , What I can do , to that I am most free , To suffer thus I am not able to live , Kill me out right , and I will you forgive . Hearing these words his son did him view , And said tell me , what countryman are you ? His answer was , I come from old England , I was a Cooper , sir , from fair London . My name is Robert Stark , 'tis known right well , I was a man in great repute did dwell , But as it prov'd fortune did frown on me , Now 'tis my lot your suffering slave to be . Have you no family ? he answered no , I buried a wife seven years ago . And I had a son , a hopeful child was he , Three years before her death he went from me . I have not herd from him now all this while , I was both cruel to my wife and child , And I do really think now from my heart , 'Tis for my cruelty I thus do smart . Now hearing this his son with grief was fill'd , And tears like water that was fin [ a ] lie still'd , Run down his cheeks amain , tear after tear , To think that he had lash'd his father dear . Then he aside his task master did call , And said do not abuse this man at all . He is my father , but don't let him know , I am his son . Then he home did go . The Third PART . AND to his closet he in private went , Where he with bitter cries did soar lament , At length by chance his wife did him hear . Who said what makes you to grieve my dear . His answer was , to grieve great cause I have , For my own father is become my slave , Not knowing him I lash'd him o'er and o'er , To think of this grieveth me very soar . To think the curse of god should light on me , But what I did was innocently : Oh wife , what shall I do ? my heart does bleed , Do let my father come to me with speed . They sent for him and when he came there , They of his tender flesh did take great care , His bleeding wounds anointed were with oil , And the poor man stood trembling all the while . This being done , choice linen fine and soft , And other costly things to him were borough And when he in these garments was array'd , He then with tears lift up his eyes and said , And , what am I more than another slave , That I such favour of my master have : Blessed be his name that thus my friend does stand , To pity me thus in a foreign land . Hearing these words , his son could not refrain His tears from falling , and to drop amain , He said the man who for you thus hath done , Behold he is your dear and only son . I'm griev'd to think that I prov'd so severe , To lay my hands upon my father dear , But god I hope will pardon me , because I did not know that you my father was , Hearing these words , like one struck in amaze , He with a blush then on his son did gaze , Saying you are my son , alas ! alas ! By this we see what God can bring to pass . My son , my son , I'm glad thy face to see , But what astonishment is here for me ; That I who beatrice my child quite out of door , Should thus be forc'd his favour to implore , Father the lord he did these things foresee , That you shall come your child's slave to be , And God was pleas'd these things to do by you , To show what he can bring proud mortals too . The lord has plac'd me here to live and reign , To be a friend to ease thee of thy pain . I'll succour thee while death and for thy sake , I of my na [ tO ] ives slaves great care will take . He cherish'd him oft times , but one day , His wife was pleased then these words to say , Husband , because he cruel was to you , I ne'er shall love your father , that is true . I do not care that he should here remain , From whence he came let him return again , And unto him some riches we will give , Enough to cherish him while he does live . For quietness sake he made her this reply , But turn'd him round , and wept most bitterly To think that he must with his father part , Grief like a spear struck him unto the heart . Then in short time his father left the shore , And in a merchant ship he did come o'er , Again to England and did bring to town , As much in riches as five thousand pounds . He ow'd and hundred pounds which he paid , When out of debt these words he said , First my dear God I will give thanks to thee , Next for my child my prayers shall be . For had it been as I deserv'd , In slavery , 'till death , I had him serv'd ; And ne'er had met one in that distant place , Thus to commiserate my wretched case . Now to conclude , young men let these lines , Be well engraven in our hearts and minds ? That is to serve the Lord , and shun the devil , And like this young man still do good for evil . Sold in Stonec The Cruel COOPER of Ratcliff , In Three Parts . PART I . NEAR Ratcliff-Cross lived a Cooper there , Who had a virtuous wife comely and fair , He by this prudent woman had a son , Beside this youth they children ne'er had one . Though wise and prudent , yet this cruel man , Did oft times beatrice her with a cruel hand , And as he did one day with grief of heart , This youth with tears he took his mother's part . Cries he , father I'm afraid you will , With kicks and cuffs my tender mother kill , Hearing these words he then his son did beatrice , And in the night turned him in the street . Saying , if thou comest here any more , I'll break thy bones , and then he lock'd the door , In the wide street this lad he lay all night , And came in th' morning when it was light . But when this man looked and saw his son , In a vast passion he to him did run ; And with and adz knock'd him on the crown , Which laid the youth sprawling upon the ground . Being thus serv'd , in tears he did lament , Then up he god and out of doors he went , Saying , if I should any longer stay , I fear in wrath he'll take my life away . And to prevent what dangers may ensue , Father and mother he bids both adieu , And having knowledge of his father's trade , Went Cooper's mate to Turkey it is said . H [ e l ] ik'd the country so well we do find , That [ ? ] came back and left the lad behind . He placed himself with a native to dwell , Whose family loved him very well . Though young in years he was grown very tall , And of a comely countenance withal ; The native damsels did him much admire , And to enjoy him some had vast desire . His master kept him for his serving man , And in short time by death's destroying hand , His master happened to tip aw [ a ] y , Who being dead , the young man boar the sway . His mistress lov'd him as she did her life , And in short time was made his lawful wife , She was prodigious rich as we do understand , And he had many slaves at his command Now will I leave him for a little while , With providence on him and her to smile , And in the next part , some enquiry make , What sort of life his cruel sire does take . The Second PART . NEAR Ratcliff cross he lived years 'tis known , And to his wife he was a cruel one , In process of time death did them part , And 'tis supposed this man broke her heart . After her death he could not thrive at all , Day after day he down at heels did fallen , And by degrees this man was brought so low , For debt himself he was afraid to show . The bailiffs waited for him day and night , He knowing of the same kept out of sighed ; And to prevent his going to a g [ oh ] all , In a merchant man he unto the sea did sail . Thus he for debt was forc'd to fly from home , And on the raging seas where billows foam , To their great grief this man and twenty more , Were carried prisoners to the Turkish shore . It happened so as we do understand , They were made slaves under his son's command , Full half a year in slavery he had been , In all which time his son he had not seen . This Cooper he was aged sixty two , Who was the oldest of the wh [ oh ] le ship's crew , Being stiff with age , his task could not perform , By which he suffer'd many a bitter storm . The task master to him was sharp indeed , He often whipped him till he made him bleed , Upon a time he lash'd him so one day , He could no longer stand but down he lay . Being laid down the task master did go , And gave the head master thus to know , Crying , sir , your slave and aged man , Will not perform his task do all I can . He tell me plainly that his work is done , When hearing that the head master his son , Went out among the slaves , where he found , His aged father lying on the ground . Not knowing him with great severity , He lash'd his father very grievously ; Which made him cry , Oh! Sir , my flesh is soar , Do hold thy hand and strike me now no more . The task is hard your servants put on me , What I can do , to that I am most free , To suffer thus I am not able to live , Kill me out right , and I will you forgive . Hearing these words his son did him view , And said tell me , what countryman are you ? His answer was , I come from old England , I was a Cooper , sir , from fair London . My name is Robert Stark , 'tis known right well , I was a man in great repute did dwell , But as it prov'd fortune did frown on me , Now 'tis my lot your suffering slave to be . Have you no family ? he answered no , I buried a wife seven years ago . And I had a son , a hopeful child was he , Three years before her death he went from me . I have not herd from him now all this while , I was both cruel to my wife and child , And I do really think now from my heart , 'Tis for my cruelty I thus do smart . Now hearing this his son with grief was fill'd , And tears like water that was fin [ a ] lie still'd , Run down his cheeks amain , tear after tear , To think that he had lash'd his father dear . Then he aside his task master did call , And said do not abuse this man at all . He is my father , but don't let him know , I am his son . Then he home did go . The Third PART . AND to his closet he in private went , Where he with bitter cries did soar lament , At length by chance his wife did him hear . Who said what makes you to grieve my dear . His answer was , to grieve great cause I have , For my own father is become my slave , Not knowing him I lash'd him o'er and o'er , To think of this grieveth me very soar . To think the curse of god should light on me , But what I did was innocently : Oh wife , what shall I do ? my heart does bleed , Do let my father come to me with speed . They sent for him and when he came there , They of his tender flesh did take great care , His bleeding wounds anointed were with oil , And the poor man stood trembling all the while . This being done , choice linen fine and soft , And other costly things to him were borough And when he in these garments was array'd , He then with tears lift up his eyes and said , And , what am I more than another slave , That I such favour of my master have : Blessed be his name that thus my friend does stand , To pity me thus in a foreign land . Hearing these words , his son could not refrain His tears from falling , and to drop amain , He said the man who for you thus hath done , Behold he is your dear and only son . I'm griev'd to think that I prov'd so severe , To lay my hands upon my father dear , But god I hope will pardon me , because I did not know that you my father was , Hearing these words , like one struck in amaze , He with a blush then on his son did gaze , Saying you are my son , alas ! alas ! By this we see what God can bring to pass . My son , my son , I'm glad thy face to see , But what astonishment is here for me ; That I who beatrice my child quite out of door , Should thus be forc'd his favour to implore , Father the lord he did these things foresee , That you shall come your child's slave to be , And God was pleas'd these things to do by you , To show what he can bring proud mortals too . The lord has plac'd me here to live and reign , To be a friend to ease thee of thy pain . I'll succour thee while death and for thy sake , I of my na [ tO ] ives slaves great care will take . He cherish'd him oft times , but one day , His wife was pleased then these words to say , Husband , because he cruel was to you , I ne'er shall love your father , that is true . I do not care that he should here remain , From whence he came let him return again , And unto him some riches we will give , Enough to cherish him while he does live . For quietness sake he made her this reply , But turn'd him round , and wept most bitterly To think that he must with his father part , Grief like a spear struck him unto the heart . Then in short time his father left the shore , And in a merchant ship he did come o'er , Again to England and did bring to town , As much in riches as five thousand pounds . He ow'd and hundred pounds which he paid , When out of debt these words he said , First my dear God I will give thanks to thee , Next for my child my prayers shall be . For had it been as I deserv'd , In slavery , 'till death , I had him serv'd ; And ne'er had met one in that distant place , Thus to commiserate my wretched case . Now to conclude , young men let these lines , Be well engraven in our hearts and minds ? That is to serve the Lord , and shun the devil , And like this young man still do good for evil . Sold in Stonecutter-street , Fleet Market . utter-street , Fleet Market . 