The PRINCELY LOVERS Garland . PART I . ONCE I read a noble volume , Or a history book , some call em , Of two lovers true indeed , None for love could them exceed . It is of a king's fair daughter , ( pray now mark what follows after ) And a noble prince of fame ; To her father's court he came . Where he soon observ'd her beauty . Now , quoth he , it is my duty For to woo both day and night , Since thy charming beauty bright Has my heart so deely woulded , That my senses are confounded . Yet to her I dare not speak , Because her father is so great . No , no , no , I dare not venture , Or into her presence enter , Fearing of her father's rage . Would I were her serving page . Then should I observe my duty , Still admiring her beauty ; Which does glance from her fair eyes , As the morningstar does rise . In the private garden walking , He thus to himself was talking . From her window she did him spy , Then on the prince she cast and eye . Where young Cupid soon did hover Round about this princely lover , With his conquering bent bow , She was wounded with love also . This young princess had a brother , Who her love did soon discover Where he soon [ declare ] 'd the same Thist noble knigth of fame . Prince and princess both admire This young knight , and did inquire Of his noble birth and fame ? None could tell from whence he came . Tho' he was both son and heir To a king and queen so fair , Yet het he never understood , He was born of royal blood . And for that very same reason , It was counted as high treason For to court this princely dame , Where he suffer'd for the same . Her father hearing of the story , Now , quoth he , I'll blast the glory . How dare he this thing presume ? Nought but death shall be his doom . Since it lies within my power , Instead of love I'll him devour , Him by these hungry lions jaws , And with his body fill their maws . To my daughter you'd be marry'd , To a den you shall be carry'd , Where instead of bridegroom's bed , Lions shall your heart's blood shed . PART II YET these lions had no power His poor carcase to devour , Which from them he understood He was born of noble blood . Then came down the lions keeper , For to cleanse the den , and sweep her , Where this noble knight god hold Of this keeper , stout and bold . Where he made him for to swear That he never would declare , For his life , to any one , B [ ut ] [ ? ] lion [ ? ] had pick'd his bo [ ne . ] Now within a short time after , He wrote to the king's fair daughter , That he was alive and well , Living in a lonesome cell . The young princess told her brother , He with joy then soon went thither , Where they soon contriv'd , we hear , To steal her from her father dear . Then a ship was soon made ready , To convey this princely lady . But now comes a great surprise , Violent storms did soon arise . Where the ships was tore and shatter'd , And these loyal lovers scatter'd From each other , as we hear , Fortune proving so severe . On a plank then swam her brother , And the princess on another . Where in short time we understand They were drove unto the land . The poor knight in his condition Was taken up by one a fishing . To the land he was convey'd , And to the king he was betray'd . Tho' you was preserv'd from lions , You shall now be bound in irons , Where you shall resign your breath , In a dungeon starv'd to death . He being thus confin'd in fetters , To the jailor he sends letters , To speak with him speedily , He being sick and like to die . Then the jailor he did enter , Now , quoth he , pray jailor venture From these irons set me free . Store of gold I'll give to thee . And being greedy of the treasure , Soon he freed him with great pleasure . Being from the irons freed . He the jailor kill'd with speed . Once more he his freedom gained , And his liberty obtained , Yet his heart was filled with woe , That he must from his princess go . PART III . Traveling with grief and sorrow , To the court of Bohemia , From that court he understood He was born of noble blood . Being at a great coliation , Strait appear'd and apparition At the table where he din'd . With a flaming torch , we find . Most gracious king , and queen so royal , That's your son , make no denial . Ever since the rebellion , He has been missing so long . I'm his nurse , who was disloyal . To murder that young prince so royal . My knife was three times at his throat , To let his royal blood run out . Yet I having not the power , Into the woods with him did scour , Where three years I did maintain The royal prince , till I was slave . As the child and I were walking , To the young prince , I was talking , Came a lion from the wood , Nurs'd the child , and suck'd my blood . When she had the same revealed Which long time had been concealed , Then she vanish'd clear away , And left them all surpriz'd that day . Now this frightful apparition Brought good news unto the nation , Tongue nor pen cannot express The nation's joys the prince possess' Now we'll leave his in this nation To relate the great vexation Of that tyarnt king once more , Of whom we rehears'd before . He with royal passion fretted , When to him it was related , That the knight was dead and gone , And the jailor dead was found . With revenge said to his daughter , In great spiteful smiles and laughter , Madam , you would fain be wed , Go and take your love that's dead . You shall not have your desire , I his corpse will burn with fire . The great princess in distress Ran unto the mournful hearse . At the hearse she met her brother With a dagger ; she had another . Come , dear brother , she did cry , Since he's dead let us two die . Cruel father , prince of tyrants , You would fain destroy with lions ; ; But his royal , blood you see Sav'd him from that tyranny . Since you are to me so cruel , His dead corpse to burn with fuel . With my tears I'm him embalm , And then burn within his arms . Strait the princess with her brother , Did the mournful hearse uncover , Where unto their joy they found The jailor corpse ; the prince was gone . Said the princess with discretion I will travel from the nation , For to find my dearest dear . Father , you are too severe . Strait she dress'd in man's attire , Thro' strange nations did inquire After this brave knight of fame . To his court at length she came . For a service she inquired . Her sweet charms the prince admired , Come , sweet youth , the prince he said , You shall by my waiting-page . PART IV. A Hunting went the prince soon after , With his nobles , full of laughter . In the middle of the sport , The prince left the royal court , The prince with his page did wander , 'Till at length he spy'd a farmer . In one bed the royal pair Forced to take their lodging were . The royal prince was discontented , In the night he thus lamented : Oh! my royal love , said he , I wish you was along with me . Said the page , Dear lord and master , Don't lament your sad disaster . Her dear picture you shall see ; For I have it here with me . I mean at your palace royal . The next day without denial , Returning thanks , they pass'd away To the court , without delay . For her picture long he waited . Tarrying long , at length he fretted . Strait he went , in a great rage , For to seek his servant-page . The young princess being ready , There was no page , but a lady . Oh! great princess most divine . Lovely picture , thou art mine . With great joy beyond expressing , Were this royal pair possessing . The great day appointed were For to join this happy pair . News was carry'd to her father , That they both were join'd together Tho' you held him once in scorn , He is ace , borrinp royal sir , n . The PRINCELY LOVERS Garland . PART I . ONCE I read a noble volume , Or a history book , some call em , Of two lovers true indeed , None for love could them exceed . It is of a king's fair daughter , ( pray now mark what follows after ) And a noble prince of fame ; To her father's court he came . Where he soon observ'd her beauty . Now , quoth he , it is my duty For to woo both day and night , Since thy charming beauty bright Has my heart so deely woulded , That my senses are confounded . Yet to her I dare not speak , Because her father is so great . No , no , no , I dare not venture , Or into her presence enter , Fearing of her father's rage . Would I were her serving page . Then should I observe my duty , Still admiring her beauty ; Which does glance from her fair eyes , As the morningstar does rise . In the private garden walking , He thus to himself was talking . From her window she did him spy , Then on the prince she cast and eye . Where young Cupid soon did hover Round about this princely lover , With his conquering bent bow , She was wounded with love also . This young princess had a brother , Who her love did soon discover Where he soon [ declare ] 'd the same Thist noble knigth of fame . Prince and princess both admire This young knight , and did inquire Of his noble birth and fame ? None could tell from whence he came . Tho' he was both son and heir To a king and queen so fair , Yet het he never understood , He was born of royal blood . And for that very same reason , It was counted as high treason For to court this princely dame , Where he suffer'd for the same . Her father hearing of the story , Now , quoth he , I'll blast the glory . How dare he this thing presume ? Nought but death shall be his doom . Since it lies within my power , Instead of love I'll him devour , Him by these hungry lions jaws , And with his body fill their maws . To my daughter you'd be marry'd , To a den you shall be carry'd , Where instead of bridegroom's bed , Lions shall your heart's blood shed . PART II YET these lions had no power His poor carcase to devour , Which from them he understood He was born of noble blood . Then came down the lions keeper , For to cleanse the den , and sweep her , Where this noble knight god hold Of this keeper , stout and bold . Where he made him for to swear That he never would declare , For his life , to any one , B [ ut ] [ ? ] lion [ ? ] had pick'd his bo [ ne . ] Now within a short time after , He wrote to the king's fair daughter , That he was alive and well , Living in a lonesome cell . The young princess told her brother , He with joy then soon went thither , Where they soon contriv'd , we hear , To steal her from her father dear . Then a ship was soon made ready , To convey this princely lady . But now comes a great surprise , Violent storms did soon arise . Where the ships was tore and shatter'd , And these loyal lovers scatter'd From each other , as we hear , Fortune proving so severe . On a plank then swam her brother , And the princess on another . Where in short time we understand They were drove unto the land . The poor knight in his condition Was taken up by one a fishing . To the land he was convey'd , And to the king he was betray'd . Tho' you was preserv'd from lions , You shall now be bound in irons , Where you shall resign your breath , In a dungeon starv'd to death . He being thus confin'd in fetters , To the jailor he sends letters , To speak with him speedily , He being sick and like to die . Then the jailor he did enter , Now , quoth he , pray jailor venture From these irons set me free . Store of gold I'll give to thee . And being greedy of the treasure , Soon he freed him with great pleasure . Being from the irons freed . He the jailor kill'd with speed . Once more he his freedom gained , And his liberty obtained , Yet his heart was filled with woe , That he must from his princess go . PART III . Traveling with grief and sorrow , To the court of Bohemia , From that court he understood He was born of noble blood . Being at a great coliation , Strait appear'd and apparition At the table where he din'd . With a flaming torch , we find . Most gracious king , and queen so royal , That's your son , make no denial . Ever since the rebellion , He has been missing so long . I'm his nurse , who was disloyal . To murder that young prince so royal . My knife was three times at his throat , To let his royal blood run out . Yet I having not the power , Into the woods with him did scour , Where three years I did maintain The royal prince , till I was slave . As the child and I were walking , To the young prince , I was talking , Came a lion from the wood , Nurs'd the child , and suck'd my blood . When she had the same revealed Which long time had been concealed , Then she vanish'd clear away , And left them all surpriz'd that day . Now this frightful apparition Brought good news unto the nation , Tongue nor pen cannot express The nation's joys the prince possess' Now we'll leave his in this nation To relate the great vexation Of that tyarnt king once more , Of whom we rehears'd before . He with royal passion fretted , When to him it was related , That the knight was dead and gone , And the jailor dead was found . With revenge said to his daughter , In great spiteful smiles and laughter , Madam , you would fain be wed , Go and take your love that's dead . You shall not have your desire , I his corpse will burn with fire . The great princess in distress Ran unto the mournful hearse . At the hearse she met her brother With a dagger ; she had another . Come , dear brother , she did cry , Since he's dead let us two die . Cruel father , prince of tyrants , You would fain destroy with lions ; ; But his royal , blood you see Sav'd him from that tyranny . Since you are to me so cruel , His dead corpse to burn with fuel . With my tears I'm him embalm , And then burn within his arms . Strait the princess with her brother , Did the mournful hearse uncover , Where unto their joy they found The jailor corpse ; the prince was gone . Said the princess with discretion I will travel from the nation , For to find my dearest dear . Father , you are too severe . Strait she dress'd in man's attire , Thro' strange nations did inquire After this brave knight of fame . To his court at length she came . For a service she inquired . Her sweet charms the prince admired , Come , sweet youth , the prince he said , You shall by my waiting-page . PART IV. A Hunting went the prince soon after , With his nobles , full of laughter . In the middle of the sport , The prince left the royal court , The prince with his page did wander , 'Till at length he spy'd a farmer . In one bed the royal pair Forced to take their lodging were . The royal prince was discontented , In the night he thus lamented : Oh! my royal love , said he , I wish you was along with me . Said the page , Dear lord and master , Don't lament your sad disaster . Her dear picture you shall see ; For I have it here with me . I mean at your palace royal . The next day without denial , Returning thanks , they pass'd away To the court , without delay . For her picture long he waited . Tarrying long , at length he fretted . Strait he went , in a great rage , For to seek his servant-page . The young princess being ready , There was no page , but a lady . Oh! great princess most divine . Lovely picture , thou art mine . With great joy beyond expressing , Were this royal pair possessing . The great day appointed were For to join this happy pair . News was carry'd to her father , That they both were join'd together Tho' you held him once in scorn , He is ace , borrinp royal sir , n . 