r A Favourite Love Song . ONE night as I lay on my bed , The thoughts of love came in my head ; I was soar oppress'd , could take no rest , Away to my own truelove I'll go . Unto my love's window I came , I boldly call'd her by her name ; 'Tis for thy sake that I came here , Thro' the bitter frost and snow . So open me the window my love do , My Dad and Mammy's both awake , And if they chance to hear you speak , There will be no excuse , but soar abuse . With words and many a blow , And its go from my window my love do , Thy Daddy and thy Mammy's fast asleep , And in their window I made bold to peep . Without the door I herd them snore , And their breath it was not low , And its open me the door my love do ; My love she arose and open'd me the door . Like and angel bright , she stood upon the floor , Her eyes shin'd bright and the stars gave light , Like diamonds in her brow , And still she cries my jewel whisper low . To creep the room it was our doom , Though our foot steps was but slow ; And still she cries jewel whisper low , Its you must stay till the break of day . I'll freely give consent and straight to the pastime they wen [ tO ] It was just in the breaking of the day , My love awak'd and bid me go away , My Daddy dear should chance to hear . He will us both undo so its rise my dear jewel and go , It was underneath yond shady green tree , Where my true love and I did first agree , What we did there I'll never declare , No mortal man shall know , For I'll love the girl while I've god breath to draw . Hearing what he said ; she stood like one amazed , Wiping the tears from off her beautiful Eyes : Said she my dearest Jewel how could you be so Cruel , 'Tis doubtful I had died if I'd never seen you more . Now this happy Couple they are joined together , The Bells' they did ring and the Music did play ; Now they live together , like two loyal lovers , Bless'd be this Couple until their dying Day . r A Favourite Love Song . ONE night as I lay on my bed , The thoughts of love came in my head ; I was soar oppress'd , could take no rest , Away to my own truelove I'll go . Unto my love's window I came , I boldly call'd her by her name ; 'Tis for thy sake that I came here , Thro' the bitter frost and snow . So open me the window my love do , My Dad and Mammy's both awake , And if they chance to hear you speak , There will be no excuse , but soar abuse . With words and many a blow , And its go from my window my love do , Thy Daddy and thy Mammy's fast asleep , And in their window I made bold to peep . Without the door I herd them snore , And their breath it was not low , And its open me the door my love do ; My love she arose and open'd me the door . Like and angel bright , she stood upon the floor , Her eyes shin'd bright and the stars gave light , Like diamonds in her brow , And still she cries my jewel whisper low . To creep the room it was our doom , Though our foot steps was but slow ; And still she cries jewel whisper low , Its you must stay till the break of day . I'll freely give consent and straight to the pastime they wen [ tO ] It was just in the breaking of the day , My love awak'd and bid me go away , My Daddy dear should chance to hear . He will us both undo so its rise my dear jewel and go , It was underneath yond shady green tree , Where my true love and I did first agree , What we did there I'll never declare , No mortal man shall know , For I'll love the girl while I've god breath to draw . Hearing what he said ; she stood like one amazed , Wiping the tears from off her beautiful Eyes : Said she my dearest Jewel how could you be so Cruel , 'Tis doubtful I had died if I'd never seen you more . Now this happy Couple they are joined together , The Bells' they did ring and the Music did play ; Now they live together , like two loyal lovers , Bless'd be this Couple until their dying Day . 