THE Fantastical Prodigal . ON a time I was great , now little I'm grown , A mimic of MULTUM IN PARVO ; I'm bury'd alive in a cloister of stone , Some say it is what I deserve O. In what they say there is something of truth , I have been a wild and extravagant youth , Some hundreds I have spent on Rachel and Ruth , But now I have god into Limbo . The song that I sing is absolute true Then mark well my woeful condition , It is of myself ( Give the devil his due ) I hope it may make and impression On the heart of all Prodigal beaus ; For friend , let me tell you under the Rose , Those whom you feasted will be your worse foes , If ever you get into Limbo . My Father and Mother 'tis very well known , They left me abundance of riches , But I was so wild and extravagant grown , That I daily furnish'd my breeches With guineas , and then to the tavern I'd stray , As fine as a fool , or a fop at a play , I thought in my heart it would never be day , Till now I am god into Limbo . My Father he left me five hundred a year , My Mother she left me her jointure ; And every acre from mortgage was clear , But I was for bottle and pint , sir : So field after field to market I sent , My lands was mortgaged and money I spent , My heart was harden'd it would not relent , Until I god into Limbo . My goods with abundance of old fashion'd plan , In short I sent packing together , And set myself up in a pageant of state , With my powder'd wig , hat , and feather , With hounds , hawks , and whores making my brags , I rambled about till I emptied my bags , So all my gay clothing was turned to rags , And now I'm fast-locked in Limbo . I used to vaunt as if I would fly , And strut like a crow in a Gutter ; The people would cry as I did pass by , There goes Sir Fopling Flutter : Then top and topgallant I hoist my sails , With fringed cravat and wig of two tails : But now I am ready to gnaw my own nails , Confin'd to my chamber in Limbo . My time and my money I woefully spent , On furbelow'd Ladies of pleasure ; The cunning young gypsies would fit and invent , Which way for to squander my treasure . Watever they asked I would presently get , Rich garments or dainties my palates to fit , Thus made a mere fool of and absolute wit , But now I have god into Limbo . I once kept a brace of as delicate Jades As ever brought Ninepence to Nothing ; My credit I morgag'd to several trades , To keep them in meat , drink , and clothing . The goldsmith for Jewels , lockets , and rings , And others for laces , and rich bridle-strings , I pleasur'd my doxies with fifty fine things , For which I have god into Limbo . THE Fantastical Prodigal . ON a time I was great , now little I'm grown , A mimic of MULTUM IN PARVO ; I'm bury'd alive in a cloister of stone , Some say it is what I deserve O. In what they say there is something of truth , I have been a wild and extravagant youth , Some hundreds I have spent on Rachel and Ruth , But now I have god into Limbo . The song that I sing is absolute true Then mark well my woeful condition , It is of myself ( Give the devil his due ) I hope it may make and impression On the heart of all Prodigal beaus ; For friend , let me tell you under the Rose , Those whom you feasted will be your worse foes , If ever you get into Limbo . My Father and Mother 'tis very well known , They left me abundance of riches , But I was so wild and extravagant grown , That I daily furnish'd my breeches With guineas , and then to the tavern I'd stray , As fine as a fool , or a fop at a play , I thought in my heart it would never be day , Till now I am god into Limbo . My Father he left me five hundred a year , My Mother she left me her jointure ; And every acre from mortgage was clear , But I was for bottle and pint , sir : So field after field to market I sent , My lands was mortgaged and money I spent , My heart was harden'd it would not relent , Until I god into Limbo . My goods with abundance of old fashion'd plan , In short I sent packing together , And set myself up in a pageant of state , With my powder'd wig , hat , and feather , With hounds , hawks , and whores making my brags , I rambled about till I emptied my bags , So all my gay clothing was turned to rags , And now I'm fast-locked in Limbo . I used to vaunt as if I would fly , And strut like a crow in a Gutter ; The people would cry as I did pass by , There goes Sir Fopling Flutter : Then top and topgallant I hoist my sails , With fringed cravat and wig of two tails : But now I am ready to gnaw my own nails , Confin'd to my chamber in Limbo . My time and my money I woefully spent , On furbelow'd Ladies of pleasure ; The cunning young gypsies would fit and invent , Which way for to squander my treasure . Watever they asked I would presently get , Rich garments or dainties my palates to fit , Thus made a mere fool of and absolute wit , But now I have god into Limbo . I once kept a brace of as delicate Jades As ever brought Ninepence to Nothing ; My credit I morgag'd to several trades , To keep them in meat , drink , and clothing . The goldsmith for Jewels , lockets , and rings , And others for laces , and rich bridle-strings , I pleasur'd my doxies with fifty fine things , For which I have god into Limbo . 