Jack Tar's Return , ONE Night at ten o'Clock , As I a reading sat , Letters of old I had received from my dear Sailor Jack , Somebody at the door , like a Jack Tar did roar , Which drove my poor senses , I cannot tell where . I arose with the shock , and did the door unlock , Such a fine sighed sure , my eyes did behold , Trousers as white as snow , buckles down to the toe , With a flashy curl'd gee , and his hat lac'd with gold . Then I did stand and view , strait in my arms he flew , Giving me a kiss , far sweeter than rue ; He smelled of tar and look'd so smart , he reviv'd my heart , There was nothing , no nothing , my mind to bring too . Then to delight me more , straight in my apron sure , Then he began to throw , handfuls of gold . Saying I will you deck , with a gold chain about your neck , For I have sail'd with Rodney , with courage so bold . Then come each lad and lass , drink off a flowing glass , And drink a health to the lads , that are at sea , God send them again , unto their native home , Oh what a comfort and , that will be . Jack Tar's Return , ONE Night at ten o'Clock , As I a reading sat , Letters of old I had received from my dear Sailor Jack , Somebody at the door , like a Jack Tar did roar , Which drove my poor senses , I cannot tell where . I arose with the shock , and did the door unlock , Such a fine sighed sure , my eyes did behold , Trousers as white as snow , buckles down to the toe , With a flashy curl'd gee , and his hat lac'd with gold . Then I did stand and view , strait in my arms he flew , Giving me a kiss , far sweeter than rue ; He smelled of tar and look'd so smart , he reviv'd my heart , There was nothing , no nothing , my mind to bring too . Then to delight me more , straight in my apron sure , Then he began to throw , handfuls of gold . Saying I will you deck , with a gold chain about your neck , For I have sail'd with Rodney , with courage so bold . Then come each lad and lass , drink off a flowing glass , And drink a health to the lads , that are at sea , God send them again , unto their native home , Oh what a comfort and , that will be . 