A true Character of sun - dry Trades and Call - ings . Or , A new Ditty of Innocent Mirth . NOW Gentlemen fit you merry , I'll sing you a song of a want , I'll make you as merry as may be , My Money begins to grow scant . A woman without e'er a tongue , She never can scold very loud ; It is just such another sad want , When a Fiddler wants his crowd . A ship that's without e'er a sail , May be driven the Lord knows whither . 'Tis just such another sad want , When a Shoemaker wants his leather . A M [ a ] n that has god but one leg , Will make but a pitiful Runner . And he that has ne'er and Eye in his Head , Will make but a sorrowful Gunnor . A doctor without any stomach Will make but a sorrowful dinner . And he that has no victuals to eat , Will quickly look thinner and thinner . A Bell without e'er a clapper , Will make but a pitiful found . And he that has no Land of his own , Must work on another Man's Ground . A Blacksmith without any Bellows , He need not to rise very soon . And he that's no clothes to put on , May lie in Bed till it's noon , And Innkeeper without any Custom Will never get store of pelf ; And he that's no Sign to hang up , May e'en go hang up himself . A Miller without any Stones , He has but a sorrowful soul . And if he has no Corn to grind , He need not stand taking of toll . The Taylor we know is loath To take any cabbage at all , If he has no silk , stuff or cloth To do that good office withal . A woman without e'er a fault She like a bright Star does appear . And a brewer without any Malt , Will make but pitiful Beer . A Man that has god but one Shirt , Whene'er it is wash'd to his hide , I hope it is no great hurt , To lie in bed till it is dry'd . A Mountebank without his Fools , And a Skip-kennel out of place . A Tinker without any tools , Are all in a sorrowful case . You know a Dish of good Meat Is the staff of Man's life , But he that's no victuals to eat , He needs not to draw out his knife . A Pedlar without any Pack , It makes him look pitiful blue . A Shepherd without e'er a Flock , Has little or nothing to do . A Farmer without any Corn , He neither can give , fell , or lend . A Huntsman without e'er a Horn , His wife must be his best friend . A Ploughman that has ne'er a Plough , I think must lie at ease . A Dairy without e'er a Cow , Wisl make but bad Butter and Cheese , A Man that is pitiful poor Has little or nothing to loose . And he that has never a Foot , It saves him the buying of Shoes . A Warren without e'er a Coney Is barren , and so much the worse , And he that is quite out of Money Can have no great need of a purse . I hope there are none in this Place That now are displeas'd with my Song , Come buy up my Ballads apace , I'll pack up my Awls and be gone . A true Character of sun - dry Trades and Call - ings . Or , A new Ditty of Innocent Mirth . NOW Gentlemen fit you merry , I'll sing you a song of a want , I'll make you as merry as may be , My Money begins to grow scant . A woman without e'er a tongue , She never can scold very loud ; It is just such another sad want , When a Fiddler wants his crowd . A ship that's without e'er a sail , May be driven the Lord knows whither . 'Tis just such another sad want , When a Shoemaker wants his leather . A M [ a ] n that has god but one leg , Will make but a pitiful Runner . And he that has ne'er and Eye in his Head , Will make but a sorrowful Gunnor . A doctor without any stomach Will make but a sorrowful dinner . And he that has no victuals to eat , Will quickly look thinner and thinner . A Bell without e'er a clapper , Will make but a pitiful found . And he that has no Land of his own , Must work on another Man's Ground . A Blacksmith without any Bellows , He need not to rise very soon . And he that's no clothes to put on , May lie in Bed till it's noon , And Innkeeper without any Custom Will never get store of pelf ; And he that's no Sign to hang up , May e'en go hang up himself . A Miller without any Stones , He has but a sorrowful soul . And if he has no Corn to grind , He need not stand taking of toll . The Taylor we know is loath To take any cabbage at all , If he has no silk , stuff or cloth To do that good office withal . A woman without e'er a fault She like a bright Star does appear . And a brewer without any Malt , Will make but pitiful Beer . A Man that has god but one Shirt , Whene'er it is wash'd to his hide , I hope it is no great hurt , To lie in bed till it is dry'd . A Mountebank without his Fools , And a Skip-kennel out of place . A Tinker without any tools , Are all in a sorrowful case . You know a Dish of good Meat Is the staff of Man's life , But he that's no victuals to eat , He needs not to draw out his knife . A Pedlar without any Pack , It makes him look pitiful blue . A Shepherd without e'er a Flock , Has little or nothing to do . A Farmer without any Corn , He neither can give , fell , or lend . A Huntsman without e'er a Horn , His wife must be his best friend . A Ploughman that has ne'er a Plough , I think must lie at ease . A Dairy without e'er a Cow , Wisl make but bad Butter and Cheese , A Man that is pitiful poor Has little or nothing to loose . And he that has never a Foot , It saves him the buying of Shoes . A Warren without e'er a Coney Is barren , and so much the worse , And he that is quite out of Money Can have no great need of a purse . I hope there are none in this Place That now are displeas'd with my Song , Come buy up my Ballads apace , I'll pack up my Awls and be gone . 