The True Lover's Joy : Or , A Dialogue between a Seaman and his Love . The Maid implores the Aid of Charon's Boat , That to the gloomy Shades her Soul might float ; With Sighs and Groans , much weary and oppressed ; At last he herd her Moan , and gave her rest , From all past Dangers , and from future Harms , She safe arriv'd and anchor'd in his Arms. To a new Tune much in Request . Maid . HArk Charon , come away , bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless Maid , unto the Eleizium Shores . Charon . Who Charon calls in haste , while I fit here in pain ? I carry none but pure and chaste , such as true Love hath slave . I am come , dear Soul , I come , thy Face does so incharm me ; Come in my Boat and take thy room , no Wind nor Wave shall harm thee . Maid . Now I am come in thy Boat , I am a Maid undone , Sighing my Heart is almost broke , for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the Shades , I'll tell you a mournful Tale , So full of Sighs as we do pass , shall serve us for a Gale . And so beguile the time , I'll sing you a true Lover's Song , Mine Eyes shall flow a Sea of Tears , to carry the Boat along . O what's become of those hard Hearts of a Virgin takes no Pity , They'r sailing to Virginia Parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and hath pierc'd my tender Heart , To call for one whom I lov'd so dear , who cares but little for't . Thus in the Shades below , we'll wast the tedious Hours No gust of Wind , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charon's Oars . His Answer . Stay , gentle Charon , stay , and let the Boat alone , Row not the harmless Maid away , that sits and makes her Moan . For she that calls so fast , and sighs so at thy stay , A Virgin is as pure and chaste , as er'e true Love did slay . She's no dear Soul for thee , let not her Face incharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be , her Beauty there may charm thee . O fair One if you go , I'm more undone than you , My Heart does equal Sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The Shades you must not pass , nor mournful Stories tell , Instead of sighing Gales , alas ! a Kiss will do as well . you'd better stay a shore , and sing us a true Lover's Song , It is enough , we need no more to carry his Boat along . No Heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your Pain , Else Heart let him to Virginia go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before ; If you love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In Beds of softest Down , we'll spend the short liv'd nights , No gust of Wind or Sighs shall drown the Current of our Delights . Maid . Come gentle Charon , come , and me to shore remove , The Wind despairing sighed did blow , shall wast me unto Love . How slow the Boatman steers , if he no faster ply , My Love to rid me of my Fears , shall lend me his Wings to fly . To thee , dear Love , I float , finding thee just and true , And bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally Adieu . Make haste , make haste , my Dear , for , if thou longer stay , Through the Floods without all Fears , my Arms shall make their way . Welcome , my Love , to shore , I'll keep thee from all harms , And thou shalt ride for evermore at Anchor in my Arms. Printed for E. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The True Lover's Joy : Or , A Dialogue between a Seaman and his Love . The Maid implores the Aid of Charon's Boat , That to the gloomy Shades her Soul might float ; With Sighs and Groans , much weary and oppressed ; At last he herd her Moan , and gave her rest , From all past Dangers , and from future Harms , She safe arriv'd and anchor'd in his Arms. To a new Tune much in Request . Maid . HArk Charon , come away , bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless Maid , unto the Eleizium Shores . Charon . Who Charon calls in haste , while I fit here in pain ? I carry none but pure and chaste , such as true Love hath slave . I am come , dear Soul , I come , thy Face does so incharm me ; Come in my Boat and take thy room , no Wind nor Wave shall harm thee . Maid . Now I am come in thy Boat , I am a Maid undone , Sighing my Heart is almost broke , for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the Shades , I'll tell you a mournful Tale , So full of Sighs as we do pass , shall serve us for a Gale . And so beguile the time , I'll sing you a true Lover's Song , Mine Eyes shall flow a Sea of Tears , to carry the Boat along . O what's become of those hard Hearts of a Virgin takes no Pity , They'r sailing to Virginia Parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and hath pierc'd my tender Heart , To call for one whom I lov'd so dear , who cares but little for't . Thus in the Shades below , we'll wast the tedious Hours No gust of Wind , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charon's Oars . His Answer . Stay , gentle Charon , stay , and let the Boat alone , Row not the harmless Maid away , that sits and makes her Moan . For she that calls so fast , and sighs so at thy stay , A Virgin is as pure and chaste , as er'e true Love did slay . She's no dear Soul for thee , let not her Face incharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be , her Beauty there may charm thee . O fair One if you go , I'm more undone than you , My Heart does equal Sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The Shades you must not pass , nor mournful Stories tell , Instead of sighing Gales , alas ! a Kiss will do as well . you'd better stay a shore , and sing us a true Lover's Song , It is enough , we need no more to carry his Boat along . No Heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your Pain , Else Heart let him to Virginia go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before ; If you love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In Beds of softest Down , we'll spend the short liv'd nights , No gust of Wind or Sighs shall drown the Current of our Delights . Maid . Come gentle Charon , come , and me to shore remove , The Wind despairing sighed did blow , shall wast me unto Love . How slow the Boatman steers , if he no faster ply , My Love to rid me of my Fears , shall lend me his Wings to fly . To thee , dear Love , I float , finding thee just and true , And bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally Adieu . Make haste , make haste , my Dear , for , if thou longer stay , Through the Floods without all Fears , my Arms shall make their way . Welcome , my Love , to shore , I'll keep thee from all harms , And thou shalt ride for evermore at Anchor in my Arms. Printed for E. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 