The WIFE's Resolution to find her HUSBAND full Employment . 1 Oh Now , dear wife , I am marry'd to you , Pray what must I do now ? Why now you rogue , go sweep the house , You have nothing else to do . 2 I'll make you do it again and again , As oft as it pleases me ; I'll make you repent the day , you dog , That you were marry'd to me . 4 O now dear wife , I have made a fire , Pray what must I do now ? Go hasten wash , and set the cups , You've nothing else to do . 3 O now dear wife , I've swept the house , Pray what must I do now ? Now you rogue go make a fire , You have nothing else to do . 5 O now dear wife I have set the cups , Pray what must I do now ? Now you rogue , go drink my slops , You have nothing else to do . 6 O now dear wife , my heart's delight , Pray what must I do now ? Go work you rogue , until it is night , You have nothing else to do . 7 I labour'd all day , until it was night , Pray what must I do now ? Go make my bed , and a candle light , You have nothing else to do . 8 Now I have made the bed , dear wife , Pray what must I do now ? Come in to bed , and kiss your wife , You've nothing else to do . The WIFE's Resolution to find her HUSBAND full Employment . 1 Oh Now , dear wife , I am marry'd to you , Pray what must I do now ? Why now you rogue , go sweep the house , You have nothing else to do . 2 I'll make you do it again and again , As oft as it pleases me ; I'll make you repent the day , you dog , That you were marry'd to me . 4 O now dear wife , I have made a fire , Pray what must I do now ? Go hasten wash , and set the cups , You've nothing else to do . 3 O now dear wife , I've swept the house , Pray what must I do now ? Now you rogue go make a fire , You have nothing else to do . 5 O now dear wife I have set the cups , Pray what must I do now ? Now you rogue , go drink my slops , You have nothing else to do . 6 O now dear wife , my heart's delight , Pray what must I do now ? Go work you rogue , until it is night , You have nothing else to do . 7 I labour'd all day , until it was night , Pray what must I do now ? Go make my bed , and a candle light , You have nothing else to do . 8 Now I have made the bed , dear wife , Pray what must I do now ? Come in to bed , and kiss your wife , You've nothing else to do . 