Ileen Oge . Printed and sold by J. Davenport 6 , George's-Court , Clerkenwell London . THE moments were sad when my love and I parted Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge , As I kissed off her tears I was near broken hearted Ah Vurnen delish ileen oge . Wan was her cheek which hung on my shoulder , Damp was her hand , no marbel was colder , I felt that I never again should behold her , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . When the word of command put our troop into motion Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge , I buckled up my napsack to cross the wide ocean , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . Brisk were our troops , all roaring like thunder , Pleased with their voyage , impatient for plunder , My bosom with grief was near torn asunder , Ah Vourneen delish ileen oge . Long have I fought for my country , far , far from my true love , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge , All my pay and arrears I hoarded up for you love , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . But peace was proclaim'd , I escape from the slaughter Landed at home , my sweet girl , I sought her , But sorrow , alas ! to her cold grave had brought her , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . She's gone now , alas ! and has left me orlorn , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge , I'll betake to the desert , for ever will moan , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . No the warbling throng , with their notes so charming Never shall sooth my grief of a morning . But in silent solitude sighing for my darling , Ah Vourneen delish ileen oge . Ileen Oge . Printed and sold by J. Davenport 6 , George's-Court , Clerkenwell London . THE moments were sad when my love and I parted Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge , As I kissed off her tears I was near broken hearted Ah Vurnen delish ileen oge . Wan was her cheek which hung on my shoulder , Damp was her hand , no marbel was colder , I felt that I never again should behold her , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . When the word of command put our troop into motion Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge , I buckled up my napsack to cross the wide ocean , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . Brisk were our troops , all roaring like thunder , Pleased with their voyage , impatient for plunder , My bosom with grief was near torn asunder , Ah Vourneen delish ileen oge . Long have I fought for my country , far , far from my true love , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge , All my pay and arrears I hoarded up for you love , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . But peace was proclaim'd , I escape from the slaughter Landed at home , my sweet girl , I sought her , But sorrow , alas ! to her cold grave had brought her , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . She's gone now , alas ! and has left me orlorn , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge , I'll betake to the desert , for ever will moan , Ah Vurneen delish ileen oge . No the warbling throng , with their notes so charming Never shall sooth my grief of a morning . But in silent solitude sighing for my darling , Ah Vourneen delish ileen oge . 