A HYMN To be Sung on the Thanksgiving Day . Before SERMON . Brunswick Tune . COme Britons rejoice , indulge Holy Mirth with ravished Hearts sing Praise to the LORD , Proclaim it aloud that he reigns thro' the Earth ; with Voices triumphant His Favours record , O praise him who still our Guardian appears , and scatters the Clouds that darken'd our Skies , He baffles our Foes and disperses our Fears , and bids us wipe off all the tears from our Eyes , New Blessings on us he lately bestow'd , when scarce any dawn of Hope did remain , And brought us a Protestant Prince from abroad , O're Britain his Favourite Island to reign . A Prince highly fam'd for Arts and for Arms , with Wisdom mature to manage the State , Whose Justice will [ awe ] , whil [ st ] His Clemency charms , and Courage quell Foes which his Virtues create . A Prince who has left old Subject's in tears , distressed that their Sun his Beams had withdrawn , While Britain revives as her Patron appears , And offers in transport Her widowed throne , The Foes to his Rights to Europe's repose , against him in vain they cabal and combine , What skill can defeat , or what Power oppose , when Providence Favours the happy Design ? In Peace he's arriv'd , in triumph he's crown'd , with Justice and Truth , the Sceptre he Sways , O spread the glad tidings , the Britains around , Invite all your Neighbours to Join in the Praise , The praise which you owe to Heaven's High King , who often hath saved your perishing State , His praises 'tis fit you should wilfully sing , And e'ery new Favour with transport relate , Our Rights are secured , our Consciences free , of Violence now no more we're afraid , But hope that our Holy Religion will be to dist [ a ] nt Posterity safely convey'd , Let no sullen Gloom one Face overspread , and flatter the Mirth of this Happy Day When GOD in such Plenty his Bounties hath shed , and driven our Fears and our Dangers away . After SERMON . Hanover Tune IN lofty Strains , you grateful Britons sing ; Found forth the Praise of Heavn's e -- ter -- nal King . On us , Propitious , He Vouchsafes to smile , And with con -- tinual Blessings crowns our Isle . From hence He early chas'd the Pagan Night , With healing Beams of Evangelic Light . And when the Mists of Error hid our Day , He burst the Clouds , and chid those Shades away . When Sister Churches waste and ruin'd lie , From Wolves and Tigers hunted brothers fly : Secur'd we stand , by his Almighty power , No Tigers ravage here nor Wolves devour . He scatters Dangers , he from harm defends , He blasts our Foes , and he procures us Friends He in the needful Time , when Ills invade , Breaks thro' the skies . and hastens to our Aid . Here he his pure Religion still maintains Still keeps us free from Misery and Chains , No cruel Parents here give Stones for Bred , No Tyrants on their prostrate Subject's tread . Confederate Hell and Room their bans unite , With baffled Craft , and with successless Spite , In vain their Arts , in vain their Arms have try'd , In vain invade us , and in vain Divide . While God our Great Protector watchful stands , Eludes their Plots , or binds their bloody Hands . Brings their conceal'd Design to open Day , Or blows at once their boasted Schemes away . We long have his almighty Friendship try'd , Oft sav'd by him when none could save beside And now he stretches his propitious Hand , And gently floats again our sinking Land. On gasping Britain He a Prince bestows , Friend to our Rights Religion and our Laws , ( In vain Pretenders Foreign Powers support , In vain unthinking Britons Ruin court . ) Long may he live and reign , of Heav'n approv'd ; By Foes rever'd , by all His Subject's lov'd , While we delighted brighten in his Rays , Pray for our King , and to his King give Praise . BRISTOL : Printed by W. BONNY . A HYMN To be Sung on the Thanksgiving Day . Before SERMON . Brunswick Tune . COme Britons rejoice , indulge Holy Mirth with ravished Hearts sing Praise to the LORD , Proclaim it aloud that he reigns thro' the Earth ; with Voices triumphant His Favours record , O praise him who still our Guardian appears , and scatters the Clouds that darken'd our Skies , He baffles our Foes and disperses our Fears , and bids us wipe off all the tears from our Eyes , New Blessings on us he lately bestow'd , when scarce any dawn of Hope did remain , And brought us a Protestant Prince from abroad , O're Britain his Favourite Island to reign . A Prince highly fam'd for Arts and for Arms , with Wisdom mature to manage the State , Whose Justice will [ awe ] , whil [ st ] His Clemency charms , and Courage quell Foes which his Virtues create . A Prince who has left old Subject's in tears , distressed that their Sun his Beams had withdrawn , While Britain revives as her Patron appears , And offers in transport Her widowed throne , The Foes to his Rights to Europe's repose , against him in vain they cabal and combine , What skill can defeat , or what Power oppose , when Providence Favours the happy Design ? In Peace he's arriv'd , in triumph he's crown'd , with Justice and Truth , the Sceptre he Sways , O spread the glad tidings , the Britains around , Invite all your Neighbours to Join in the Praise , The praise which you owe to Heaven's High King , who often hath saved your perishing State , His praises 'tis fit you should wilfully sing , And e'ery new Favour with transport relate , Our Rights are secured , our Consciences free , of Violence now no more we're afraid , But hope that our Holy Religion will be to dist [ a ] nt Posterity safely convey'd , Let no sullen Gloom one Face overspread , and flatter the Mirth of this Happy Day When GOD in such Plenty his Bounties hath shed , and driven our Fears and our Dangers away . After SERMON . Hanover Tune IN lofty Strains , you grateful Britons sing ; Found forth the Praise of Heavn's e -- ter -- nal King . On us , Propitious , He Vouchsafes to smile , And with con -- tinual Blessings crowns our Isle . From hence He early chas'd the Pagan Night , With healing Beams of Evangelic Light . And when the Mists of Error hid our Day , He burst the Clouds , and chid those Shades away . When Sister Churches waste and ruin'd lie , From Wolves and Tigers hunted brothers fly : Secur'd we stand , by his Almighty power , No Tigers ravage here nor Wolves devour . He scatters Dangers , he from harm defends , He blasts our Foes , and he procures us Friends He in the needful Time , when Ills invade , Breaks thro' the skies . and hastens to our Aid . Here he his pure Religion still maintains Still keeps us free from Misery and Chains , No cruel Parents here give Stones for Bred , No Tyrants on their prostrate Subject's tread . Confederate Hell and Room their bans unite , With baffled Craft , and with successless Spite , In vain their Arts , in vain their Arms have try'd , In vain invade us , and in vain Divide . While God our Great Protector watchful stands , Eludes their Plots , or binds their bloody Hands . Brings their conceal'd Design to open Day , Or blows at once their boasted Schemes away . We long have his almighty Friendship try'd , Oft sav'd by him when none could save beside And now he stretches his propitious Hand , And gently floats again our sinking Land. On gasping Britain He a Prince bestows , Friend to our Rights Religion and our Laws , ( In vain Pretenders Foreign Powers support , In vain unthinking Britons Ruin court . ) Long may he live and reign , of Heav'n approv'd ; By Foes rever'd , by all His Subject's lov'd , While we delighted brighten in his Rays , Pray for our King , and to his King give Praise . BRISTOL : Printed by W. BONNY . 