The HONOUR of a LONDON 'PRENTICE ; Being and Account of his Matchless Manhood and brave Adventures done in TURKEY . OF a worthy LONDON 'PRENTICE , My purpose is to speak ; And tell his brave Adventures , Done for his Country's Sake , Seek all the World about , In vain will be your speed , To find any like to him , In Valour to exceed . He was born in Cheshire , The chief of Men was he ; From thence brought up to London , A 'Prentice for to be , A Merchant on the Bridge , Did like his service so . That for three Years his Factor To Turkey he should go . And in the famous Country One Year he had not been , 'Ere he by Tilt maintain'd The honour of his queen , ELIZABETH his Princess , He nobly did make known , To be the Phoenix of the World , And none but she alone , In armour rich and gilded , Well mounted on a Steed ; One Score of Knights most hardy , He made for to bleed : And brought tthem all unto the ground , Who proudly did deny ELIZABETH to be the Pearl Of princely Dignity . The King of that same Country Began therefore to frown , And will'd his Son then present To pull this youngster down : Who at his Father's words These boasting speeches said ; Thou art a Traitor English Boy , And hast the Traitor play'd . I am no Boy nor Traitor , Thy speeches I defy ; For which I'll be revenged On thee by and by ; A London Prentice still Shall prove as good a Man As any of your Turkish Knights , Do all the best you can . And therewithal he gave him A swinging box o'the Ear . Which broke his Neck asunder , As plainly does appear ; How now proud Turk , said he , I am no English Boy , Who can with one small Box o'the Ear , The Prince of Turks destroy . When as the King perceived His son so strangely slave , His Soul was so afflicted With more than mortal Pain ; And in Revenge thereof He swore that he should die The cruelest death that ever Man Beheld with mortal Eye . Two Lions were prepar'd The 'Prentice to devour , Near famished with hunger , Ten Days within the Tower ; For to make them more fierce , And eager for their prey , To glut themselves with human gore , Upon this dreadful Day . The appointed Time of Torment At length drew near at Hand , When all the noble Ladies And Barons of the Land , Attended on the King , To see this 'Prentice slave . And buried in the hungry Maws Of [ tO ] hese fierce Lions twain , Then in his shirt of Cambrick With Silks most richly wrought , This worthy London Prentice Was from the Prison brought , And to the Lions given , To staunch their hunger great , Which had not eat in ten days Space , Not one small bit of Meat But God , who knows all secrets The Matter so contriv'd That by this young Man's Valour They were of Life depriv'd ; For being faint for want of Food , They could not withstand The noble Force and Fortitude And Courage of his Hand : For when the hungry Lions Had on him cast their Eyes , The elements did thunder , With echos of their Cries : And running all amain , His Body to devour , Into each Throat he thrust his Arm With all his Might and Power ; From thence with manly Force , He tore their Hearts asunder , And at the King he threw them To tll the People's Wonder . This have I done , quoth he , For lovely England's Sake , And for my Country Maiden Queen Much more will undertake . But when the King perceiv'd The wrathful Lion's Hearts , Afflicted with great Sorrow , His Anger soon reverts , And turned all his Hate Into Remorse and Love ; And said it is some Angel Sent down from Heaven above . No , no , I am no Angel , The courteous young Man said , But born in famous England , Where God's Word is obey'd ; Assisted by the Heavens , Who did me thus befriend , Or else they had most cruelly Brought here my Life to End. The King in Heart amazed , Lift up his Eyes to Heaven , And for his foul Offences Did beg to be forgiven ; Believing that no Land With England could be seen , No People better govern'd By Virtue of a Queen . So taking up this young Man , He pardon'd him his Life , And gave his Daughter unto him To be his wedded Wife . Where then they did remain , And liv'd in quiet Peace , In spending of their happy Days , In Joy and Love's increase . Printed and Sold in Aldermary-ChurchYard , Bow Lane , London . st The HONOUR of a LONDON 'PRENTICE ; Being and Account of his Matchless Manhood and brave Adventures done in TURKEY . OF a worthy LONDON 'PRENTICE , My purpose is to speak ; And tell his brave Adventures , Done for his Country's Sake , Seek all the World about , In vain will be your speed , To find any like to him , In Valour to exceed . He was born in Cheshire , The chief of Men was he ; From thence brought up to London , A 'Prentice for to be , A Merchant on the Bridge , Did like his service so . That for three Years his Factor To Turkey he should go . And in the famous Country One Year he had not been , 'Ere he by Tilt maintain'd The honour of his queen , ELIZABETH his Princess , He nobly did make known , To be the Phoenix of the World , And none but she alone , In armour rich and gilded , Well mounted on a Steed ; One Score of Knights most hardy , He made for to bleed : And brought tthem all unto the ground , Who proudly did deny ELIZABETH to be the Pearl Of princely Dignity . The King of that same Country Began therefore to frown , And will'd his Son then present To pull this youngster down : Who at his Father's words These boasting speeches said ; Thou art a Traitor English Boy , And hast the Traitor play'd . I am no Boy nor Traitor , Thy speeches I defy ; For which I'll be revenged On thee by and by ; A London Prentice still Shall prove as good a Man As any of your Turkish Knights , Do all the best you can . And therewithal he gave him A swinging box o'the Ear . Which broke his Neck asunder , As plainly does appear ; How now proud Turk , said he , I am no English Boy , Who can with one small Box o'the Ear , The Prince of Turks destroy . When as the King perceived His son so strangely slave , His Soul was so afflicted With more than mortal Pain ; And in Revenge thereof He swore that he should die The cruelest death that ever Man Beheld with mortal Eye . Two Lions were prepar'd The 'Prentice to devour , Near famished with hunger , Ten Days within the Tower ; For to make them more fierce , And eager for their prey , To glut themselves with human gore , Upon this dreadful Day . The appointed Time of Torment At length drew near at Hand , When all the noble Ladies And Barons of the Land , Attended on the King , To see this 'Prentice slave . And buried in the hungry Maws Of [ tO ] hese fierce Lions twain , Then in his shirt of Cambrick With Silks most richly wrought , This worthy London Prentice Was from the Prison brought , And to the Lions given , To staunch their hunger great , Which had not eat in ten days Space , Not one small bit of Meat But God , who knows all secrets The Matter so contriv'd That by this young Man's Valour They were of Life depriv'd ; For being faint for want of Food , They could not withstand The noble Force and Fortitude And Courage of his Hand : For when the hungry Lions Had on him cast their Eyes , The elements did thunder , With echos of their Cries : And running all amain , His Body to devour , Into each Throat he thrust his Arm With all his Might and Power ; From thence with manly Force , He tore their Hearts asunder , And at the King he threw them To tll the People's Wonder . This have I done , quoth he , For lovely England's Sake , And for my Country Maiden Queen Much more will undertake . But when the King perceiv'd The wrathful Lion's Hearts , Afflicted with great Sorrow , His Anger soon reverts , And turned all his Hate Into Remorse and Love ; And said it is some Angel Sent down from Heaven above . No , no , I am no Angel , The courteous young Man said , But born in famous England , Where God's Word is obey'd ; Assisted by the Heavens , Who did me thus befriend , Or else they had most cruelly Brought here my Life to End. The King in Heart amazed , Lift up his Eyes to Heaven , And for his foul Offences Did beg to be forgiven ; Believing that no Land With England could be seen , No People better govern'd By Virtue of a Queen . So taking up this young Man , He pardon'd him his Life , And gave his Daughter unto him To be his wedded Wife . Where then they did remain , And liv'd in quiet Peace , In spending of their happy Days , In Joy and Love's increase . Printed and Sold in Aldermary-ChurchYard , Bow Lane , London . st 