And excellent BALLAD of St. George for England , and the King of Egypt's on lie Daughter , whom he delivered from Death : And how he slew a monstrous Dragon . OF Hector's Deeds did Homer sing . And of the Sack of stately Troy , What Grief fair Helen did them bring , Which was Sir Paris's only Joy : And with my Pen I must recite St. George's Deeds , and English Knight . Against the Saracens full rude , Fought he full long and many a Day ; Where many a Gallant he subdu'd , In Honour of the Christian Way : And after many Adventures past , To Egypt's Land he came at last . And as the Story plain does tell , Within the Country there did rest A dreadful Dragon , fierce and fell , Whereby they were full soar oppressed ; Who by his poyson'd Breath each Day , Did many of the City slay . The Grief whereof did grow so great , Through all the Limits of the Land , That they their wise Men did entreat , To show their Cunning out of Hand ; Which Way this Dragon to destroy , That did their Country so annoy . The wise Men all before the King , Form'd this Matter incontinent . The Dragon none to Death might bring , By any Means they could invent . His Skin more hard than Brass was found , No Sword nor Spear could pierce or wound . When this the People understood , They cry'd out most piteous , The Dragon's Breath infects their Blood , That they each Day in Heaps did die : Among them such a Plague is bred , The Living scarce can bury the Dead . No Means there was that they could find , For to appease the Dragon's Rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , Whereby he might his Fury suage , Each Day he should a Maiden eat , For to allay his Hunger great . This Thing by Art the wise Men found , Which truly must observed be ; Wherefore throughout the City round , A Virgin pure of good Degree , Was by the King's Commission still Snatch'd up to serve the Dragon's Will . Then did the Dragon every Day , A Maiden of the Town devour , Till all the Maids were worn away , And none were left that present Hour , Saving the King's fair Daughter bright Her Father's Joy and Heart's Delight . Then came the Officers to the King This heavy Message to declare ; Which did his Heart with Sorrow sting . She is , quoth he , my Kingdom's Heir ; Oh! let us all be poyson'd here , E'er she should die that is my Dear . Then rose the People presently , And to the King in Rage they went , Who said , his Daughter dear should die , The Dragon's Fury to prevent . Our Daughters all are dead , quoth they , And have been made the Dragon's Prey . And by their Blood thou hast been blessed , And thou hast sav'd thy Life thereby , And now in Justice it does rest , That thy own Daughter now shall die . Oh! save my Daughter , said the King , And let me feel the Dragon's Sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her Knee , And to her Father thus did say , Oh Father , strive not thus for me , But let me be the Dragon's Prey : It may be for my Sake alone , This Plague upon the Land was shown . 'Tis better I shou'd die , she said , Then all your Subject's perish quite . Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , For my Offence to work this Spite ; And after he has suck'd my Gore , Your Land shall know the Grief no more . What hast thou done , my Daughter dear , For to deserve this heavy Scourge , It is my Fault , It shall appear , Which makes the Gods our State to grudge , I ought to die to stint the Strife , And to preserve thy happy Life . Like mad Men all the People cry'd , Thy Death to us can do no Good ; Our Safety only does abide , To make thy Daughter Dragon's Food , Lo ! here I am , Oh then , quoth she , Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay , dear Daughter , said the Queen , Stand as thou art a Virgin bright , That has for Virtue famous been , So let me cloth thee all in White , And crown thy Head with Flowers sweet , And Ornament for Virgins meet . And when she was attired so , According to her Mother's Mind Unto the Stake she then did go , To which they did this fair Maid bind ; And being bound to Stake and Thrall , She bid farewell unto them all . Farewell , dear Father , then quoth she , And my dear Mother meek and mild ; Take you no Thought or Care for me , For you may have another Child . Here for my Country's Good I'll die , Which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their Train , With weeping Eyes then went their Way , And left their Daughter to remain , To be the hungry Dragon's Prey : But as she there did weeping lie , Behold St. George came riding by . And seeing there a Lady bright , Fast tied to the Stake that Day ; Most like unto a valiant Knight , Straight unto her did take his Way : Tell me , sweet Madam , then quoth he , What Person thus abused thee ? And lo by all ! his Blood I vow , Where he is figur'd on my Breast , I will revenge it on his Brow , And break my Lance upon his Cres And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issu'd from the Wood . The Lady that did soon espy , The dreadful Dragon coming so , Unto St. George aloud did cry , And willed him away to go : Here comes that ugly Fiend , quoth she , That soon will make and End of me . St. George then looking round about , The fiery Dragon soon espy'd , And like a Knight of Courage stout , Against him he did fiercely ride : And with such Blows he did him greet , That he fell at his Horse's Feet . For with a Lance that was so strong , As he came gaping in his Face ; In at his Mouth he thirst it long , The which could pierce no other Place : And there within the Lady's View , This dreadful Dragon then he slew . The Savour of his poyson'd Breath , Could do this Christian Knight no Harm : Thus did he save this Lady from Death , And home he led her by the Arm ; Which when Ptolomy he did see , There was great Joy and Melody . When as this famous Knight St. George , Had slave the Dragon in the Field , And brought the Lady to the Court , Whose Sighed with Joy their Hearts did fill , He in the Egyptian Court then stay'd , Till he most falsely was betrayed . The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , He counted her is only Joy ; But when their Loves were open known , It prov'd St. George's great Annoy ; The Morocco King was then in Court , Who to the Orchard did resort . Daily to take the pleasant Air , For Pleasure's Sake he us'd to walk Under the Wall , whereas he herd , St. George with fair Sabrine talk : Their Loves he revealed to the King , Which to St. George great Woe did bring . These Kings together did devise , To make the Christian Knight away : With Letters him Ambassador , They strightway sent to Persia , And wrote to the Sophy him to kill , And treacherously his Blood to spill . Thus they for Good did him reward With Evil and much Subtility ; By such vile Means they did devise To work his Death most cruelly : While he in Persia abided , He straight destroy'd each Idol God . Which being done , he straight was flung , Into a Dungeon dark and deep : But when he thought upon his Wrong , He bitterly began to weep ; Yet like a Knight of Courage stout , Forth out of Dungeon he god out . And in the Night three Horsekeepers , This valiant Knight by Power slew , Although he fasted many a Day , And then away from thence he flew , On the best Steed the Sophy had , Which when he knew , he was full sad . Then into Christendom he came , And met a Giant by the Way , With him in Combat he did fight , Most valiantly a Summer's Day : Who yet for all his Bars of Steel , Was forc'd the Sting of Death to feel . For Christendom this warlike Knight ; Then with a warlike Soldier's Haste ; Vowing upon the Heathen Land To work Revenge , which at the last , E're thrice three Years were gone and spent , He did unto his great Content . Save only Egypt's Land he spar'd , For Sabrine bright her only Sake : And e'er his Rage he did suppress , He meant a Trial kind to make . Ptolomy knew his Strength in Field , And unto him did kindly yield . Then he Morocco King did kill , And took fair Sabrine to his Wife , And afterwards contentedly , With her St. George did led his Life , Who by the Virtue of a Chain , Did still a Virgin pure remain . To England then St. George did bring , This gallant Lady , Sabrine brigh And Eunuch also came with them , In whom the Lady did delight ; None but those three from Egypt came , Now let me print St. George's Fame . When they were in the Forest great , The Lady did desire to rest ; And then St. George to kill a Deer , To feed upon did think it best . Left Sabrine and the And excellent BALLAD of St. George for England , and the King of Egypt's on lie Daughter , whom he delivered from Death : And how he slew a monstrous Dragon . OF Hector's Deeds did Homer sing . And of the Sack of stately Troy , What Grief fair Helen did them bring , Which was Sir Paris's only Joy : And with my Pen I must recite St. George's Deeds , and English Knight . Against the Saracens full rude , Fought he full long and many a Day ; Where many a Gallant he subdu'd , In Honour of the Christian Way : And after many Adventures past , To Egypt's Land he came at last . And as the Story plain does tell , Within the Country there did rest A dreadful Dragon , fierce and fell , Whereby they were full soar oppressed ; Who by his poyson'd Breath each Day , Did many of the City slay . The Grief whereof did grow so great , Through all the Limits of the Land , That they their wise Men did entreat , To show their Cunning out of Hand ; Which Way this Dragon to destroy , That did their Country so annoy . The wise Men all before the King , Form'd this Matter incontinent . The Dragon none to Death might bring , By any Means they could invent . His Skin more hard than Brass was found , No Sword nor Spear could pierce or wound . When this the People understood , They cry'd out most piteous , The Dragon's Breath infects their Blood , That they each Day in Heaps did die : Among them such a Plague is bred , The Living scarce can bury the Dead . No Means there was that they could find , For to appease the Dragon's Rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , Whereby he might his Fury suage , Each Day he should a Maiden eat , For to allay his Hunger great . This Thing by Art the wise Men found , Which truly must observed be ; Wherefore throughout the City round , A Virgin pure of good Degree , Was by the King's Commission still Snatch'd up to serve the Dragon's Will . Then did the Dragon every Day , A Maiden of the Town devour , Till all the Maids were worn away , And none were left that present Hour , Saving the King's fair Daughter bright Her Father's Joy and Heart's Delight . Then came the Officers to the King This heavy Message to declare ; Which did his Heart with Sorrow sting . She is , quoth he , my Kingdom's Heir ; Oh! let us all be poyson'd here , E'er she should die that is my Dear . Then rose the People presently , And to the King in Rage they went , Who said , his Daughter dear should die , The Dragon's Fury to prevent . Our Daughters all are dead , quoth they , And have been made the Dragon's Prey . And by their Blood thou hast been blessed , And thou hast sav'd thy Life thereby , And now in Justice it does rest , That thy own Daughter now shall die . Oh! save my Daughter , said the King , And let me feel the Dragon's Sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her Knee , And to her Father thus did say , Oh Father , strive not thus for me , But let me be the Dragon's Prey : It may be for my Sake alone , This Plague upon the Land was shown . 'Tis better I shou'd die , she said , Then all your Subject's perish quite . Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , For my Offence to work this Spite ; And after he has suck'd my Gore , Your Land shall know the Grief no more . What hast thou done , my Daughter dear , For to deserve this heavy Scourge , It is my Fault , It shall appear , Which makes the Gods our State to grudge , I ought to die to stint the Strife , And to preserve thy happy Life . Like mad Men all the People cry'd , Thy Death to us can do no Good ; Our Safety only does abide , To make thy Daughter Dragon's Food , Lo ! here I am , Oh then , quoth she , Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay , dear Daughter , said the Queen , Stand as thou art a Virgin bright , That has for Virtue famous been , So let me cloth thee all in White , And crown thy Head with Flowers sweet , And Ornament for Virgins meet . And when she was attired so , According to her Mother's Mind Unto the Stake she then did go , To which they did this fair Maid bind ; And being bound to Stake and Thrall , She bid farewell unto them all . Farewell , dear Father , then quoth she , And my dear Mother meek and mild ; Take you no Thought or Care for me , For you may have another Child . Here for my Country's Good I'll die , Which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their Train , With weeping Eyes then went their Way , And left their Daughter to remain , To be the hungry Dragon's Prey : But as she there did weeping lie , Behold St. George came riding by . And seeing there a Lady bright , Fast tied to the Stake that Day ; Most like unto a valiant Knight , Straight unto her did take his Way : Tell me , sweet Madam , then quoth he , What Person thus abused thee ? And lo by all ! his Blood I vow , Where he is figur'd on my Breast , I will revenge it on his Brow , And break my Lance upon his Cres And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issu'd from the Wood . The Lady that did soon espy , The dreadful Dragon coming so , Unto St. George aloud did cry , And willed him away to go : Here comes that ugly Fiend , quoth she , That soon will make and End of me . St. George then looking round about , The fiery Dragon soon espy'd , And like a Knight of Courage stout , Against him he did fiercely ride : And with such Blows he did him greet , That he fell at his Horse's Feet . For with a Lance that was so strong , As he came gaping in his Face ; In at his Mouth he thirst it long , The which could pierce no other Place : And there within the Lady's View , This dreadful Dragon then he slew . The Savour of his poyson'd Breath , Could do this Christian Knight no Harm : Thus did he save this Lady from Death , And home he led her by the Arm ; Which when Ptolomy he did see , There was great Joy and Melody . When as this famous Knight St. George , Had slave the Dragon in the Field , And brought the Lady to the Court , Whose Sighed with Joy their Hearts did fill , He in the Egyptian Court then stay'd , Till he most falsely was betrayed . The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , He counted her is only Joy ; But when their Loves were open known , It prov'd St. George's great Annoy ; The Morocco King was then in Court , Who to the Orchard did resort . Daily to take the pleasant Air , For Pleasure's Sake he us'd to walk Under the Wall , whereas he herd , St. George with fair Sabrine talk : Their Loves he revealed to the King , Which to St. George great Woe did bring . These Kings together did devise , To make the Christian Knight away : With Letters him Ambassador , They strightway sent to Persia , And wrote to the Sophy him to kill , And treacherously his Blood to spill . Thus they for Good did him reward With Evil and much Subtility ; By such vile Means they did devise To work his Death most cruelly : While he in Persia abided , He straight destroy'd each Idol God . Which being done , he straight was flung , Into a Dungeon dark and deep : But when he thought upon his Wrong , He bitterly began to weep ; Yet like a Knight of Courage stout , Forth out of Dungeon he god out . And in the Night three Horsekeepers , This valiant Knight by Power slew , Although he fasted many a Day , And then away from thence he flew , On the best Steed the Sophy had , Which when he knew , he was full sad . Then into Christendom he came , And met a Giant by the Way , With him in Combat he did fight , Most valiantly a Summer's Day : Who yet for all his Bars of Steel , Was forc'd the Sting of Death to feel . For Christendom this warlike Knight ; Then with a warlike Soldier's Haste ; Vowing upon the Heathen Land To work Revenge , which at the last , E're thrice three Years were gone and spent , He did unto his great Content . Save only Egypt's Land he spar'd , For Sabrine bright her only Sake : And e'er his Rage he did suppress , He meant a Trial kind to make . Ptolomy knew his Strength in Field , And unto him did kindly yield . Then he Morocco King did kill , And took fair Sabrine to his Wife , And afterwards contentedly , With her St. George did led his Life , Who by the Virtue of a Chain , Did still a Virgin pure remain . To England then St. George did bring , This gallant Lady , Sabrine brigh And Eunuch also came with them , In whom the Lady did delight ; None but those three from Egypt came , Now let me print St. George's Fame . When they were in the Forest great , The Lady did desire to rest ; And then St. George to kill a Deer , To feed upon did think it best . Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , While he did go and kill a Deer . The mean Time in his Absence comes Two hungry Lions fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently In Pieces small , the Truth to tell ; Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seem'd she was a Maid . But when St. George from Hunting came And did behold the heavy Chance , Yet for his lovely Virgin pure , His Courage stout he did advance ; And came within the Lion's Sighed , Who run at him with all their Might . He being no Whit dismay'd , But like a stout and valiant Knight , Did kill the hungry Lions both , Within the Lady Sabrine's Sighed ; But all this while , sad and demure , She stood like a Virgin pure . But when St. George did truly know , His Lady was a Virgin pure , Those doleful Thoughts that e'er were dumb , Began most firmly to renew . He set her on a Palfrey Steed , And towards England came with Speed . Where he arrived in short Time , Unto his Father's Dwelling Place , Where with his dearest Love he liv'd , When Fortune did their Nuptials grace , They many Years of Joy did see , And led their Lives in Coventry . Eunuch there , While he did go and kill a Deer . The mean Time in his Absence comes Two hungry Lions fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently In Pieces small , the Truth to tell ; Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seem'd she was a Maid . But when St. George from Hunting came And did behold the heavy Chance , Yet for his lovely Virgin pure , His Courage stout he did advance ; And came within the Lion's Sighed , Who run at him with all their Might . He being no Whit dismay'd , But like a stout and valiant Knight , Did kill the hungry Lions both , Within the Lady Sabrine's Sighed ; But all this while , sad and demure , She stood like a Virgin pure . But when St. George did truly know , His Lady was a Virgin pure , Those doleful Thoughts that e'er were dumb , Began most firmly to renew . He set her on a Palfrey Steed , And towards England came with Speed . Where he arrived in short Time , Unto his Father's Dwelling Place , Where with his dearest Love he liv'd , When Fortune did their Nuptials grace , They many Years of Joy did see , And led their Lives in Coventry . 