A New Touch of the Times . a SONG . O Drink , drink and never giae o'er , Drink my brave Boys as I said before , The French they have sent us a fresh supply , And swear they will drink Old England dry . But now they are landed the Truth you may think , The Devil shad have them before they shall drink . Our Cannons shall thunder , our Bullets shall fly , Before they shall drink Old England dry . We care not a fig for the best of them all , We will supply ou [ r ] Army with Powder and Ball , We will soon make them and their Forces to fly , Before they shall drink old England dry . Come all you brave Soldiers and Sailors so bold , That will venture your Lives for Silver and Gold , For now is the Time your Valour to try , That they never may drink old England dry . It is but a Folly to hecter and boast , For we hope that old England will still Rule the Roast , And make them be glad away for to fly , They never shall drink old England dry . There's though valiant Duke of fame and renown , He will stand true to the Church and the Crown , And make all its Enemies away for to fly , Before they can drink old England dry Old England is loyal we do understand , They have rais'd the Militia and all the trainbands , With a full Resolution our King to stand by , They never can drink old England dry . And if we should meet with their fleet on the Seas , They well may expect they shall have little Ease , We will take , burn and sink them , and make 'em to fly They never shall drink old England dry . When first that he Landed unto them he said , If Scotland would receive him no tax should be paid , But we will not believe him for fear he should lie , They never can drink old England dry . Let us drink a Health to the Church and the Crown , And send us much strength to pull Popery down , For our Church and our King w'ell fight till we die , They never shall drink Old England dry . A New Touch of the Times . a SONG . O Drink , drink and never giae o'er , Drink my brave Boys as I said before , The French they have sent us a fresh supply , And swear they will drink Old England dry . But now they are landed the Truth you may think , The Devil shad have them before they shall drink . Our Cannons shall thunder , our Bullets shall fly , Before they shall drink Old England dry . We care not a fig for the best of them all , We will supply ou [ r ] Army with Powder and Ball , We will soon make them and their Forces to fly , Before they shall drink old England dry . Come all you brave Soldiers and Sailors so bold , That will venture your Lives for Silver and Gold , For now is the Time your Valour to try , That they never may drink old England dry . It is but a Folly to hecter and boast , For we hope that old England will still Rule the Roast , And make them be glad away for to fly , They never shall drink old England dry . There's though valiant Duke of fame and renown , He will stand true to the Church and the Crown , And make all its Enemies away for to fly , Before they can drink old England dry Old England is loyal we do understand , They have rais'd the Militia and all the trainbands , With a full Resolution our King to stand by , They never can drink old England dry . And if we should meet with their fleet on the Seas , They well may expect they shall have little Ease , We will take , burn and sink them , and make 'em to fly They never shall drink old England dry . When first that he Landed unto them he said , If Scotland would receive him no tax should be paid , But we will not believe him for fear he should lie , They never can drink old England dry . Let us drink a Health to the Church and the Crown , And send us much strength to pull Popery down , For our Church and our King w'ell fight till we die , They never shall drink Old England dry . 