PAUL JONES , A New SONG . Of heroes and Statesmen I'll just mention four , That cannot be match'd , if we trace the world o'er , For none of such fame ever stepped o'er the stones , As G -- n , Jemmy Twitcher , Lord N -- th & Paul Jones . Thro' a madheaded war , which old England will rue , At London , at Dublin , and Edinburgh too , The tradesmen stand still , and the merchant bemoans The losses he meets with , from such as Paul Jones . Contractors about this bold rebel harangue , And swear if they catch him the traitor they'll hang ; But 'mongst these devourers of ten per cent . loans , Are full as great robbers as any Paul Jones . How happy for England , would Fortune but sweep At once all her treacherous foes to the deep ; For the land under burdens most bitterly groans , To get rid of some that are worse than Paul Jones . To each honest heart that is Britain's True friend , In bumpers I'll freely this toast recommend , May Paul be converted , the Ministry purg'd , Old England be free , and her enemies scourg'd . If success to our fleets be not quickly restor'd , The Leaders in office to shove from the board , May they all fare alike , & the De'il pick the bones Of G -- n , Jemmy Twitcher , L -- worser N -- th , & Paul Jones FINIS . PAUL JONES , A New SONG . Of heroes and Statesmen I'll just mention four , That cannot be match'd , if we trace the world o'er , For none of such fame ever stepped o'er the stones , As G -- n , Jemmy Twitcher , Lord N -- th & Paul Jones . Thro' a madheaded war , which old England will rue , At London , at Dublin , and Edinburgh too , The tradesmen stand still , and the merchant bemoans The losses he meets with , from such as Paul Jones . Contractors about this bold rebel harangue , And swear if they catch him the traitor they'll hang ; But 'mongst these devourers of ten per cent . loans , Are full as great robbers as any Paul Jones . How happy for England , would Fortune but sweep At once all her treacherous foes to the deep ; For the land under burdens most bitterly groans , To get rid of some that are worse than Paul Jones . To each honest heart that is Britain's True friend , In bumpers I'll freely this toast recommend , May Paul be converted , the Ministry purg'd , Old England be free , and her enemies scourg'd . If success to our fleets be not quickly restor'd , The Leaders in office to shove from the board , May they all fare alike , & the De'il pick the bones Of G -- n , Jemmy Twitcher , L -- worser N -- th , & Paul Jones FINIS . 