Alas poor Scholar , whither wilt thou go : OR Strange altrations which at this time be ; There's many did think they never should see . To the tune of , Halloo my Fancy , etc IN a melancholy study None but my self , Methought my muse grew muddy , After seaven years reading And costly breeding , I felt , but could find no pelf : Into learned rags I've rend my Plush and Satin , And now am fit to beg in Hebrew , Greek and Latin , Instead of Aristotle , would I had god a Patten : Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? Cambridge now I must leave thee And follow Fate , College hope's do deceive me , I oft expected To have been elected , But desert is reprobate : Master's of Colleges have no common graces , And they that have Fellowships have but common places , And those that Scholars are , they must have handsome faces : Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? I have bow'd , I have bent , And all in hope , One day to be befriended , I have Preach'd , I have Printed What ere I hinted , To please our English Pope ; I worshipped towards the Cast , but the Sun does now forsake me , I find that I am falling , the Northern winds do shake me , Would I had been upright , for bowing now will break me : Alas poor Scholar , whither wilt thou go ? At great preferment I aimed Witness my silk , But now my hope's are maimed , I looked lately , To live most stately , And have a Dairy of Bell-ropes milks : But now alas , my self I must not flatter , Begamy of Steeples is a laughing matter , Each man must have but one , and Curates will grow fatter . Alas poor Scholar , whither wilt thou go ? The second part , to the same Tune . INto some Country Village Now I must go , Where neither Tith nor Tillage , The greedy Patron And parched Patron , Swear to the Church they owe : Yet if I can preach and pray too on a sudden , And confute the Pope at adventure without studying , Then ten pounds a year beside a sunday pudding . Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? All the Arts I have Skill in , Divines and Humane , Yet all's not worth a shilling , When the women hear me , They do but jeare me , And say I am profane : Once I remember , I Preached with a Weaver , I quoted Austine , He quoted Dodd and Cliver , I nothing god , he god a Cloak and Beber . Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? Ships , Ships , Ships I discover , Crossing the Main , Shall I in and go over Turn Jew or Atheist , Turke or Papist , To Geneva or Amsterdam : Bishoprics are void in Scotland , shall I thither , Or follow Windbank and Finch to see if either Do want a Priest to shrive them , Oh no this blustering weather . Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? Ho , ho , ho , I have hit it , Peace goodman fool , Thou hast a trade will fit it , Draw thy Indenture , Be bound at adventure , And Apprentice to a Free-school ; There thou may'st command By William Lilies Charter , There thou mayest whip , strip and hang and draw and quarter , And commit to the read Rod , both Will . and Tom. and Arthur , I , I , 'tis thither , thither will I gee . FINIS . Alas poor Scholar , whither wilt thou go : OR Strange altrations which at this time be ; There's many did think they never should see . To the tune of , Halloo my Fancy , etc IN a melancholy study None but my self , Methought my muse grew muddy , After seaven years reading And costly breeding , I felt , but could find no pelf : Into learned rags I've rend my Plush and Satin , And now am fit to beg in Hebrew , Greek and Latin , Instead of Aristotle , would I had god a Patten : Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? Cambridge now I must leave thee And follow Fate , College hope's do deceive me , I oft expected To have been elected , But desert is reprobate : Master's of Colleges have no common graces , And they that have Fellowships have but common places , And those that Scholars are , they must have handsome faces : Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? I have bow'd , I have bent , And all in hope , One day to be befriended , I have Preach'd , I have Printed What ere I hinted , To please our English Pope ; I worshipped towards the Cast , but the Sun does now forsake me , I find that I am falling , the Northern winds do shake me , Would I had been upright , for bowing now will break me : Alas poor Scholar , whither wilt thou go ? At great preferment I aimed Witness my silk , But now my hope's are maimed , I looked lately , To live most stately , And have a Dairy of Bell-ropes milks : But now alas , my self I must not flatter , Begamy of Steeples is a laughing matter , Each man must have but one , and Curates will grow fatter . Alas poor Scholar , whither wilt thou go ? The second part , to the same Tune . INto some Country Village Now I must go , Where neither Tith nor Tillage , The greedy Patron And parched Patron , Swear to the Church they owe : Yet if I can preach and pray too on a sudden , And confute the Pope at adventure without studying , Then ten pounds a year beside a sunday pudding . Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? All the Arts I have Skill in , Divines and Humane , Yet all's not worth a shilling , When the women hear me , They do but jeare me , And say I am profane : Once I remember , I Preached with a Weaver , I quoted Austine , He quoted Dodd and Cliver , I nothing god , he god a Cloak and Beber . Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? Ships , Ships , Ships I discover , Crossing the Main , Shall I in and go over Turn Jew or Atheist , Turke or Papist , To Geneva or Amsterdam : Bishoprics are void in Scotland , shall I thither , Or follow Windbank and Finch to see if either Do want a Priest to shrive them , Oh no this blustering weather . Alas poor Scholar whither wilt thou go ? Ho , ho , ho , I have hit it , Peace goodman fool , Thou hast a trade will fit it , Draw thy Indenture , Be bound at adventure , And Apprentice to a Free-school ; There thou may'st command By William Lilies Charter , There thou mayest whip , strip and hang and draw and quarter , And commit to the read Rod , both Will . and Tom. and Arthur , I , I , 'tis thither , thither will I gee . FINIS . 