A Remarkable and Memorable SONG of Sir ROBERT BEWICK and the Laird GRAHAM , GIVING And Account of Laird Graham's Meeting with Sir Robert Bewick in the Town of Carlisle and they go - ing to a Tavern , a dispute happened betwixt them , which of their Sons was the best Man. How Graham road Home in a Passion , and caused his Son to fight young Bewick , which proved their Death's . OLD Graham he is to Carlisle gone , Where Sir Robert Bewick there met he : In Arms to the Wine they are gone , And drink till they were both merry . Old Graham he took up the Cup , And said , Brother Bewick here's to thee ; And here's to our two Sons at Home , For they live best in our Country . Nay , were thy Son as good as mine , And of some Books he could but read , With Sword and buckler by his Side . To see how he could safe his Head ; They might have been call'd two bold Brothers , Wherever they do go or ride : They might have been call'd two bold Brothers . They might have cracked the border side . Thy Son is bad , he is but a Lad , And Bully to my Son cannot be ; I put him to School , but he would not learn . I bought him Books , but he would not read ; But my blessing he's never have , Till I see how he can save his Head. Old Graham he call'd for and Account , And he asked what there was to pay , There he paid a Crown , so it went round , Which was all for Wine and Hay . Old Graham is to the Stable gone , Where stood thirty good Steads and three : He's taken his own Stead by the Head , And Home road he right wantonly . When he came there he did espy , A loving sighed to 'spy or see ; There did he espy his own three Sons , Young Christy Graham the foremost was he ; Where have you been all Day , Father ? That no counsel you'll take by me Nay I have been at Carlisle Town , Where Sir Robert Bewick there met me , He said thou was bad and call'd thou a Lad , And baffled Man by thee I be . He said , thou was bad , and call'd thee a Lad , And Bully to his Son cannot be ; For his Son Bewick can both write and read , And sure I am that cannot be . I put thee to School , but thou wouldst not learn ; I bought thee Books , but thou wouldst not read ; But my Blessing thou's never have , Till I see with Bewick thou canst save thy Head. Oh! pray forbear , my Father dear , That ever such a Thing should be : Shall I venture my Body in Field to fight , With a man that's Faith and Troth to me ; What's that thou sayest , thou Limmer Loon ; Or how dare thou stand to speak to me ; If thou do not end this Quarrel soon , Here is my Glove thou shalt fight me . Christy stoop'd low unto the Ground ; Unto the Ground as you'll understand ; Oh Father put on your Glove again . The Wind hath blown it from your Hand . What's that thou sayest thou Limmer Loon ; Or how dare you stand to speak to me ; If you do not end this Quarrel soon , Here is my Hand thou shalt fight me . Christy Graham is to his Chamber gone , And for to study as well might be , Whither to fight with his Father dear , Or with his Bully Bewick he . If it be my Fortune my Bully to kill , As you shall boldly understand , In every Town that I ride through , They'll say there rides a brotherless Man. Nay , for to kill my brother dear , I think it were a deadly since ; And for to kill my Father dear , The blessing of Heaven I ne'er shall win . O give me your blessing , Father , he said , And pray well for me then to thrive ; If it be my Fortune my bully to kill , I sware I shall never come home alive . He put on his back a good old Jacket , And on his head a Cap of Steel ; With Sword and Buckler by his Side , Oh 'gin he did not become them Weel , [ Fare the ] e well my Father dear , [ Fa ] re thee well thou Carlisle Town , If it be my Fortune my Bully to kill , I'll swear I'll ne'er eat Bred again . Now we'll leave off talking of Christy Graham , And talk of them again believe ; But we will talk of bonny Bewick , Where he was teaching his Scholars five . Now when he had learned them to fence , To handle their Swords without any Doubt , He's taken his Sword under his Arm , And walked his Father's Close about ; He look'd between them and the Sun , To see what Farlies he could see , There he espy'd a Man with Armour on , As he came riding o'er the Lee. I wonder much what man you be , That so boldly this way does come ; I think it my nighest Friend , I think it is my Bully Graham . O welcome , Oh welcome , my Bully Graham , Oh Man , thou art my dear , welcome , Oh Man , thou art my Dear , welcome , For I love thee best in Christendom . Away , away , Oh bully Bewick , And of thy Bullyship let me be : The Day is come that I ne'er thought on , Bully , I'm come hither to fight with thee . O no , not so , Oh Bully Graham , That e'er such a Word should spoken be ; I was thy Master , and thou wast my Scholar , So well I learned thee . My Father he was in Carlisle Town , Where thy Father Bewick there met he : He said , I was bad , and he call'd me a Lad , And a baffled Man by thou I be . Away , away , Oh Bully Graham , And of that talk , Man , let us be ; We'll make three Men on either Side . To see if we can our Father's agree . Away , away , Oh bully Bewick , And of thy Bullyship let me be ? But if thou be a Man , as I true thou art , Come over this Ditch and fight with me . O no , not so , my bully Graham , That e'er such a word should spoken be ; Shall I venture my body in Field to fight , With a Man that's faith and Truth to me . Away , away , thou Bully Bewick , And of Care , Man , let us be : If thou be a Man as I true thou art , Come over this Ditch and fight with me . Nay , if it be my Fortune thee Graham to kill , As God's Will , Man , it almost be , But if it be my Fortune thee Graham to kill , 'Tis Home again I'll never gae . Thou art then of my Mind , Bully Bewick , And sworn Brothers will we be : If thou be a Man as I true thou art , Come over this Ditch and fight with . He flang his Cloak from off his Shoulder , His Psalm Book from of his Shoulders , flang he , He clapp'd his Hand upon the Hedge , And o'er lap he right wantonly . When Graham did see his Bully come , The Salt Tears stood long in his Eye : Now needs must I say , thou art a Man , That dare venture thy Body to fight with me . Nay , I have a Harness on my Back , I know that thou hath none on thine ; But as little as thou hath on thy Back , Sure as little shall there be on mine . He flang his Jacket from of his Back , His Steel Cap from off his Head flang he , He's taken his Spear into his Hand , He's ty'd his Horse unto a Tree . Now , they fell to it with two broad Swords , For two long hours fought Bewick and he , Much Sweat was to be seen on them both , But never a Drop of Blood to see . Now , Graham gave Bewick and auckward Stroke , And auckward struck surely struck he , He struck him now under the left Breast , Then down to the Ground as dead fell he . Arise , arise , Oh Bully Bewick , Arise , and speak three Words to me , Whither this be thy deadly Wound . Or God and good Surgeons will mend thee , Oh Horse , Oh Horse , Oh Bully Graham , And pray do get thee far from me , Thy Sword it is sharp , it hath wounded my Heart , And so no farther can I gae . O Horse , Oh Horse , Oh Bully Graham , And get thee far from me with Speed , And get the out o' this Country quite , That not one may know who has done the Deed. Oh! if this be true , my Bully dear , The Words that thou does tell to me , The Vow I made and the Vow I'll keep , I sware I'll be the first that die . Then he struck his Sword in a Mould Hill , Then he leap'd thirty good feet and three ; First he bequeath'd his Soul to God , And upon his own Sword leap'd he . Now , Graham he was the first that died ; And then Robert Bewick came to see : Arise , arise , Oh Son he said , For I see thou's wone the Victory . Arise , arise , Oh Son , he said , For I see thou's wone the Victory . Father , could you not drink your Wine at home , And let me and my Bully be , Nay , dig a Grave both low and wide , And in it us two pray bury . But bury my bully Graham on the Sun-side , For I'm sure he's wone the Victory . Now we'll leave of talking off these bold Brothers , In Carlisle Town where they were slave , And talk of these two good old Men Where they were making a pitiful Moan . With that bespoke now Robert Bewick , Oh Man , was I not much to blame ; I have lost one of the liveliest Lads , That ever was bred unto my Name . With that bespoke my good Lord Graham , Oh Man , I have lost the better Block ; I have lost my Comfort a A Remarkable and Memorable SONG of Sir ROBERT BEWICK and the Laird GRAHAM , GIVING And Account of Laird Graham's Meeting with Sir Robert Bewick in the Town of Carlisle and they go - ing to a Tavern , a dispute happened betwixt them , which of their Sons was the best Man. How Graham road Home in a Passion , and caused his Son to fight young Bewick , which proved their Death's . OLD Graham he is to Carlisle gone , Where Sir Robert Bewick there met he : In Arms to the Wine they are gone , And drink till they were both merry . Old Graham he took up the Cup , And said , Brother Bewick here's to thee ; And here's to our two Sons at Home , For they live best in our Country . Nay , were thy Son as good as mine , And of some Books he could but read , With Sword and buckler by his Side . To see how he could safe his Head ; They might have been call'd two bold Brothers , Wherever they do go or ride : They might have been call'd two bold Brothers . They might have cracked the border side . Thy Son is bad , he is but a Lad , And Bully to my Son cannot be ; I put him to School , but he would not learn . I bought him Books , but he would not read ; But my blessing he's never have , Till I see how he can save his Head. Old Graham he call'd for and Account , And he asked what there was to pay , There he paid a Crown , so it went round , Which was all for Wine and Hay . Old Graham is to the Stable gone , Where stood thirty good Steads and three : He's taken his own Stead by the Head , And Home road he right wantonly . When he came there he did espy , A loving sighed to 'spy or see ; There did he espy his own three Sons , Young Christy Graham the foremost was he ; Where have you been all Day , Father ? That no counsel you'll take by me Nay I have been at Carlisle Town , Where Sir Robert Bewick there met me , He said thou was bad and call'd thou a Lad , And baffled Man by thee I be . He said , thou was bad , and call'd thee a Lad , And Bully to his Son cannot be ; For his Son Bewick can both write and read , And sure I am that cannot be . I put thee to School , but thou wouldst not learn ; I bought thee Books , but thou wouldst not read ; But my Blessing thou's never have , Till I see with Bewick thou canst save thy Head. Oh! pray forbear , my Father dear , That ever such a Thing should be : Shall I venture my Body in Field to fight , With a man that's Faith and Troth to me ; What's that thou sayest , thou Limmer Loon ; Or how dare thou stand to speak to me ; If thou do not end this Quarrel soon , Here is my Glove thou shalt fight me . Christy stoop'd low unto the Ground ; Unto the Ground as you'll understand ; Oh Father put on your Glove again . The Wind hath blown it from your Hand . What's that thou sayest thou Limmer Loon ; Or how dare you stand to speak to me ; If you do not end this Quarrel soon , Here is my Hand thou shalt fight me . Christy Graham is to his Chamber gone , And for to study as well might be , Whither to fight with his Father dear , Or with his Bully Bewick he . If it be my Fortune my Bully to kill , As you shall boldly understand , In every Town that I ride through , They'll say there rides a brotherless Man. Nay , for to kill my brother dear , I think it were a deadly since ; And for to kill my Father dear , The blessing of Heaven I ne'er shall win . O give me your blessing , Father , he said , And pray well for me then to thrive ; If it be my Fortune my bully to kill , I sware I shall never come home alive . He put on his back a good old Jacket , And on his head a Cap of Steel ; With Sword and Buckler by his Side , Oh 'gin he did not become them Weel , [ Fare the ] e well my Father dear , [ Fa ] re thee well thou Carlisle Town , If it be my Fortune my Bully to kill , I'll swear I'll ne'er eat Bred again . Now we'll leave off talking of Christy Graham , And talk of them again believe ; But we will talk of bonny Bewick , Where he was teaching his Scholars five . Now when he had learned them to fence , To handle their Swords without any Doubt , He's taken his Sword under his Arm , And walked his Father's Close about ; He look'd between them and the Sun , To see what Farlies he could see , There he espy'd a Man with Armour on , As he came riding o'er the Lee. I wonder much what man you be , That so boldly this way does come ; I think it my nighest Friend , I think it is my Bully Graham . O welcome , Oh welcome , my Bully Graham , Oh Man , thou art my dear , welcome , Oh Man , thou art my Dear , welcome , For I love thee best in Christendom . Away , away , Oh bully Bewick , And of thy Bullyship let me be : The Day is come that I ne'er thought on , Bully , I'm come hither to fight with thee . O no , not so , Oh Bully Graham , That e'er such a Word should spoken be ; I was thy Master , and thou wast my Scholar , So well I learned thee . My Father he was in Carlisle Town , Where thy Father Bewick there met he : He said , I was bad , and he call'd me a Lad , And a baffled Man by thou I be . Away , away , Oh Bully Graham , And of that talk , Man , let us be ; We'll make three Men on either Side . To see if we can our Father's agree . Away , away , Oh bully Bewick , And of thy Bullyship let me be ? But if thou be a Man , as I true thou art , Come over this Ditch and fight with me . O no , not so , my bully Graham , That e'er such a word should spoken be ; Shall I venture my body in Field to fight , With a Man that's faith and Truth to me . Away , away , thou Bully Bewick , And of Care , Man , let us be : If thou be a Man as I true thou art , Come over this Ditch and fight with me . Nay , if it be my Fortune thee Graham to kill , As God's Will , Man , it almost be , But if it be my Fortune thee Graham to kill , 'Tis Home again I'll never gae . Thou art then of my Mind , Bully Bewick , And sworn Brothers will we be : If thou be a Man as I true thou art , Come over this Ditch and fight with . He flang his Cloak from off his Shoulder , His Psalm Book from of his Shoulders , flang he , He clapp'd his Hand upon the Hedge , And o'er lap he right wantonly . When Graham did see his Bully come , The Salt Tears stood long in his Eye : Now needs must I say , thou art a Man , That dare venture thy Body to fight with me . Nay , I have a Harness on my Back , I know that thou hath none on thine ; But as little as thou hath on thy Back , Sure as little shall there be on mine . He flang his Jacket from of his Back , His Steel Cap from off his Head flang he , He's taken his Spear into his Hand , He's ty'd his Horse unto a Tree . Now , they fell to it with two broad Swords , For two long hours fought Bewick and he , Much Sweat was to be seen on them both , But never a Drop of Blood to see . Now , Graham gave Bewick and auckward Stroke , And auckward struck surely struck he , He struck him now under the left Breast , Then down to the Ground as dead fell he . Arise , arise , Oh Bully Bewick , Arise , and speak three Words to me , Whither this be thy deadly Wound . Or God and good Surgeons will mend thee , Oh Horse , Oh Horse , Oh Bully Graham , And pray do get thee far from me , Thy Sword it is sharp , it hath wounded my Heart , And so no farther can I gae . O Horse , Oh Horse , Oh Bully Graham , And get thee far from me with Speed , And get the out o' this Country quite , That not one may know who has done the Deed. Oh! if this be true , my Bully dear , The Words that thou does tell to me , The Vow I made and the Vow I'll keep , I sware I'll be the first that die . Then he struck his Sword in a Mould Hill , Then he leap'd thirty good feet and three ; First he bequeath'd his Soul to God , And upon his own Sword leap'd he . Now , Graham he was the first that died ; And then Robert Bewick came to see : Arise , arise , Oh Son he said , For I see thou's wone the Victory . Arise , arise , Oh Son , he said , For I see thou's wone the Victory . Father , could you not drink your Wine at home , And let me and my Bully be , Nay , dig a Grave both low and wide , And in it us two pray bury . But bury my bully Graham on the Sun-side , For I'm sure he's wone the Victory . Now we'll leave of talking off these bold Brothers , In Carlisle Town where they were slave , And talk of these two good old Men Where they were making a pitiful Moan . With that bespoke now Robert Bewick , Oh Man , was I not much to blame ; I have lost one of the liveliest Lads , That ever was bred unto my Name . With that bespoke my good Lord Graham , Oh Man , I have lost the better Block ; I have lost my Comfort and my Joy , I have lost my Key , I have lost my Lock . Had I gone through all Lauderdale , And forty Horse had set on me , Had Christy Graham been at my Back , So well he would have guarded me . I have no more of my Song to sing , But two or three Words I'll name , But it will be talked in Carlisle Town , That these two old Men were all the Blame . and my Joy , I have lost my Key , I have lost my Lock . Had I gone through all Lauderdale , And forty Horse had set on me , Had Christy Graham been at my Back , So well he would have guarded me . I have no more of my Song to sing , But two or three Words I'll name , But it will be talked in Carlisle Town , That these two old Men were all the Blame . 