Will the Weaver . O Mother , mother , I am married , Oh that I had longer tarried , For the woman do declare , That the breeches they will wear . ( She ) Is she costly in her diet ? Does she scold , or does she riot ? ( He ) She sometime to the tavern goes , With Will the Weaver , And God knows , -- ( She ) Loving Son , no more discover , But my dear , go home and love her , Give my daughter what's her due , And let me hear no more of you . ( He ) I'll give her gold , I'll give her die . I'll give her all things , if she's quiet ; But if in words she does rebel , I'll take my stick and bang her well . A neighbour run for to meet him , On purposely for to vex him , Saying , neighbour , I'll tell you how , And who I saw with your wife just now . There was he and Will the Weaver , Mighty free and close together ; At the threshold of the door , They went in , I saw no more , Then he ran home all in a wonder , Knocking at the door like thunder ; Who is that ? the Weaver cry'd , It is my husband , you must died . Then up the chimney soon he ventur'd , And her husband in he enter'd , Where have you been all this day , Come and tell me now I pray Spending of our gold and treasure , All the day long out of measure ; While I , poor girl must stay at home , By myself making of moan . Loving wife no more affliction , But I pray follow my direction ; Get me some beer , for I am dry , To his wife he did reply . Then he did is best endeavour , For to find out Will the Weaver ; He serch'd the rooms and chambers round , But not a soul was to be found . Then up the chimney strait he gazed , And there he stood like one amazed , The wretched soul he spied there , Sitting up the chimney bar . I am glad that I have found thee , I will neiher hang nor drown thee , But I'll stifle you with smoke , This bethought , but nothing spoke . Then he made up a rousing fire , For to please his own desire , His wife cry'd out with a free goodwill , Husband , Husband , the man you'll kill . Then he soon put on more fuel , She cry'd out my dearest jewel , Since I am your lawful wife , Take him down and spare his life . Off the chimney-bar he took him , And so merrily he shook him , Every stroke these words he spoke , Come here no more to spoil my smoke . Never was a chimney-sweeper , Half so black as Will the Weaver ; Face and hands , and clothes likewise , He sent him home with two black-eyes . Will the Weaver . O Mother , mother , I am married , Oh that I had longer tarried , For the woman do declare , That the breeches they will wear . ( She ) Is she costly in her diet ? Does she scold , or does she riot ? ( He ) She sometime to the tavern goes , With Will the Weaver , And God knows , -- ( She ) Loving Son , no more discover , But my dear , go home and love her , Give my daughter what's her due , And let me hear no more of you . ( He ) I'll give her gold , I'll give her die . I'll give her all things , if she's quiet ; But if in words she does rebel , I'll take my stick and bang her well . A neighbour run for to meet him , On purposely for to vex him , Saying , neighbour , I'll tell you how , And who I saw with your wife just now . There was he and Will the Weaver , Mighty free and close together ; At the threshold of the door , They went in , I saw no more , Then he ran home all in a wonder , Knocking at the door like thunder ; Who is that ? the Weaver cry'd , It is my husband , you must died . Then up the chimney soon he ventur'd , And her husband in he enter'd , Where have you been all this day , Come and tell me now I pray Spending of our gold and treasure , All the day long out of measure ; While I , poor girl must stay at home , By myself making of moan . Loving wife no more affliction , But I pray follow my direction ; Get me some beer , for I am dry , To his wife he did reply . Then he did is best endeavour , For to find out Will the Weaver ; He serch'd the rooms and chambers round , But not a soul was to be found . Then up the chimney strait he gazed , And there he stood like one amazed , The wretched soul he spied there , Sitting up the chimney bar . I am glad that I have found thee , I will neiher hang nor drown thee , But I'll stifle you with smoke , This bethought , but nothing spoke . Then he made up a rousing fire , For to please his own desire , His wife cry'd out with a free goodwill , Husband , Husband , the man you'll kill . Then he soon put on more fuel , She cry'd out my dearest jewel , Since I am your lawful wife , Take him down and spare his life . Off the chimney-bar he took him , And so merrily he shook him , Every stroke these words he spoke , Come here no more to spoil my smoke . Never was a chimney-sweeper , Half so black as Will the Weaver ; Face and hands , and clothes likewise , He sent him home with two black-eyes . 