A GENUINE COPY Of two Excellent COURT BALLADS DEDICATED To the Right Honourable Sir Robert Walpole . Admiral VERNON's Resolution . TUNE -- Pretty Polly , says . Prithee Robin say , make no more delay Why you seek this N -- decay , By giving P -- B -- , It is our Right , for it we'll Fight ; And you are B -- te , They shall find we will be Master , Perhaps you think your Head so long , etc Yet we see you do us wrong . Robin tell why , it is thus you deny , To give Account of the Supply , You had from P -- B -- , It is said come o'er , thousands store ; And still we are Poor , I doubt you've gave it your -- Changed -- e and P -- B -- , etc If so we are all undone . Pray make it plain appear from 500l . Year I think you ought to show most clear , How you god this Treasure , It is thought you , have not been true ; With your Crew , You have trick'd us out of Measure , We daily to see you fallen , etc We hate you one and all . How can we then commend that is not Eng - land's Friend , Indeed you slily may pretend , And wheedle your great Master , But the Parliament ; Is fully bent , by Consent , To defend with Hand and Heart Sir , And great George he will stand by , etc , We will make the Spaniards fly . We will make them know that he shall be Master of the Sea , Nor all their spanish Tyranny , shall make England knock under , We have Men will fight for the Nations right ; Tho' you are a bite , Perhaps you would fell your Country , England has tormenting Foes , etc I fear you are one of those . so Robin I declare as there is war ; As I rule you shall be there , Plac'd in the Line of Battle , To fight or die , the Reason why , You cannot fly , Where thundering Cannons rattle , There is no Room of biting Gold , etc P -- tO B -- and Changed -- e shant be sold . ARGYLE's Advice to sir R -- tO W -- p -- e TUNE -- The King and the Miller . IN Days of Yore , when Statesmen wore , Clean Hands and honest Faces , No Feuds were then among Great Men , Nor striving for great Places , Their only Aim was lasting Fame , Their Virtues made them great Sir , But now friend BOB , 'tis who shall rob The British Church and State Sir . Of that good Fare , thou hadst thy share , And feather'd well thy Nest , Sir , Then don't provoke the G -- n Folk , To sacrifice the rest Sir . Remember this , the Rod's in Piss , It's Lashes thou shalt feel , Although thy A -- se was like thy Face Case harden'd well with Steel . If POULTNEY fail , what will prevail , He hath not low to fallen Sir , If thou art beatrice thou'st no Retreat , Thy Neck must pay for all . Now since alas ! thus stands thy Case , Robin look sharp about thee , Stow thick thy Gold , but Purse fast hold , Or the P -- tO will rout thee . If thou art wise thoul't rub thy Eyes , To make thy sighed most clear Sir , That thou may'st see what's like to be Abroad as well as here Sir . Consider well the Road to Hell , Is wide and free for all Sir , But Heaven's hath narrow Gates , Where few can pass at all Sir . Therefore take Care and still beware , That thou art not misled Sir , If thou shouldst miss the way to bliss , Thou art WORSER -- n'd when thou art dead Sir . See Robin pray now while you may , Save your Neck as well as Soul Sir , For you are pray'd for Night and Day , To see your Head on Pole Sir . FINIS . A GENUINE COPY Of two Excellent COURT BALLADS DEDICATED To the Right Honourable Sir Robert Walpole . Admiral VERNON's Resolution . TUNE -- Pretty Polly , says . Prithee Robin say , make no more delay Why you seek this N -- decay , By giving P -- B -- , It is our Right , for it we'll Fight ; And you are B -- te , They shall find we will be Master , Perhaps you think your Head so long , etc Yet we see you do us wrong . Robin tell why , it is thus you deny , To give Account of the Supply , You had from P -- B -- , It is said come o'er , thousands store ; And still we are Poor , I doubt you've gave it your -- Changed -- e and P -- B -- , etc If so we are all undone . Pray make it plain appear from 500l . Year I think you ought to show most clear , How you god this Treasure , It is thought you , have not been true ; With your Crew , You have trick'd us out of Measure , We daily to see you fallen , etc We hate you one and all . How can we then commend that is not Eng - land's Friend , Indeed you slily may pretend , And wheedle your great Master , But the Parliament ; Is fully bent , by Consent , To defend with Hand and Heart Sir , And great George he will stand by , etc , We will make the Spaniards fly . We will make them know that he shall be Master of the Sea , Nor all their spanish Tyranny , shall make England knock under , We have Men will fight for the Nations right ; Tho' you are a bite , Perhaps you would fell your Country , England has tormenting Foes , etc I fear you are one of those . so Robin I declare as there is war ; As I rule you shall be there , Plac'd in the Line of Battle , To fight or die , the Reason why , You cannot fly , Where thundering Cannons rattle , There is no Room of biting Gold , etc P -- tO B -- and Changed -- e shant be sold . ARGYLE's Advice to sir R -- tO W -- p -- e TUNE -- The King and the Miller . IN Days of Yore , when Statesmen wore , Clean Hands and honest Faces , No Feuds were then among Great Men , Nor striving for great Places , Their only Aim was lasting Fame , Their Virtues made them great Sir , But now friend BOB , 'tis who shall rob The British Church and State Sir . Of that good Fare , thou hadst thy share , And feather'd well thy Nest , Sir , Then don't provoke the G -- n Folk , To sacrifice the rest Sir . Remember this , the Rod's in Piss , It's Lashes thou shalt feel , Although thy A -- se was like thy Face Case harden'd well with Steel . If POULTNEY fail , what will prevail , He hath not low to fallen Sir , If thou art beatrice thou'st no Retreat , Thy Neck must pay for all . Now since alas ! thus stands thy Case , Robin look sharp about thee , Stow thick thy Gold , but Purse fast hold , Or the P -- tO will rout thee . If thou art wise thoul't rub thy Eyes , To make thy sighed most clear Sir , That thou may'st see what's like to be Abroad as well as here Sir . Consider well the Road to Hell , Is wide and free for all Sir , But Heaven's hath narrow Gates , Where few can pass at all Sir . Therefore take Care and still beware , That thou art not misled Sir , If thou shouldst miss the way to bliss , Thou art WORSER -- n'd when thou art dead Sir . See Robin pray now while you may , Save your Neck as well as Soul Sir , For you are pray'd for Night and Day , To see your Head on Pole Sir . FINIS . 