And Excellent BALLAD , Of a most Dreadful COMBATE Fought between More of More-hall , and the Dragon of Wantley . OLD Stories tell , how Hercules a Dragon slew at Lurna ; With Seven Heads , and Fourteen Eyes , to see and well discern a : But he had a Club this Dragon to drub , or he'd ne'er have don't , I'll warrant you ; But More of More-hall , with nothing at all , he slew the Dragon of Wantley . This Dragon had two furious Wings , each one upon each Shoulder : With a Sting in his Tail , as long as a Flail , which made him bolder and bolder : He had long Claws , and in his Jaws four and forty Teeth of Iron : With a Hide as tough as any Buff , which did him round environ . Have you not herd of the Trojan Horse , with Seventy Men in his Belly ? This Dragon was not quite so big , but very near , I'll tell you : Devoured he poor Children three , that could not with him grapple ; And at one Sup he eat them up , as a Man would eat and Apple . All Sorts of Cattle this Dragon did ea some say he eat up Trees ; And that the Forest sure he would devour by Degrees : For Houses & Churches were to him Geese & Turkeys , he eat all and left none behind : But some Nuts dear Jack which he could not crack , which on the Hills you will find . In Yorkshire , near fair Rotherham , the Place I know [ it ] well : Some two or three Miles , or thereabouts , I vow , I cannot tell ; But there is a Hedge , just on the Hill Edge , and Matthew's House hard by i Oh! there and then was this Dragon's Den , you could not choose but spy it . Some say this Dragon was a Witch ; some say he was a Devil : For from his Nose a Smoke arose , and with it burning Snivel ; Which he cast off , when he did cough , into a Well that stands by ; Which made it look just like a Brook running with burning Brandy . Hard by a furious Knight there dwelled , of whom all Towns did ring : For he could wrestle , play at Quarterstaff , kick , cuff , and huff , call Son of a Whore , do any Kind of Thing : By the Tail and the Mane , with his Hands twain , he swung a Horse till he was dead : And what is stranger , he for very Anger , eat him all up but his Head. These Children , as I told , being ea Men , Women , Girls , and Boys , Sighing and Sobbing , came to his Lodging , and made a hideous Noise : Oh! save us all More of More-hall , thou peerless Knight of these Woods ; Do but slay this Dragon , who won't leave us a Rag on , we'll give thee all our Goods . Tut , tut , quoth he , no Goods I won but I want , I want , in sooth , A fair Maid of Sixteen , that's brisk , and smiles about the Mouth : Hair black as a Sloe , both above and below , with Blushes her Cheeks adorning : To 'noint me o'er Night , e'er I go to Fight , and to dress me in the Morning . This being done , he did engage to hew this Dragon down : But first he went strong Armour to bespeak at Sheffield Town : With Spikes all about , not within but without , of Steel so sharp and strong : Both behind and before , Arms , Legs , and all o'er , some five or six Inches long . Had you but seen him in this Dress , how fierce he look'd , and how big ; You would have thought him to have been , some Egyptian Porcupig : He frighten'd all , Cats , Dogs , and all , each Cow , each Horse , and each Hog ; For fear they did flee , for they took him to be , some strange Outlandish Hedgehog . To see this Fight all People then , god upon Trees and Houses : On Churches some , and Chimneys too , but they put on their Trowses , Not to spoil their Hose : As soon as he arose , to make him strong and mighty : He drank by the Tale six Pots of Ale , and a Quart of Aqua Vitae . It is not Strength that always wins , for Wit does Strength excel : Which made our cunning Champion creep down into a Well : Where he did think this Dragon would drink , and so he did in Truth : And as he stoop'd low , he rose up and cry'd Boh ! and he hit him on the Mouth . Oh! quoth the Dragon , pox take you , come out , thou that disturb'st me in my Drink : With that he turn'd , and sh -- tO at him , good lack , how he did stink ! Beshrew thy Soul , thy Body is foul : thy Dung smells not like Balsam : Thou Son of a Whore , thou stink'st so soar , sure thy Diet is unwholesome . Our Politic Knight , on the other Side , crept out upon the Brink : And gave the Dragon such a Dowse , he knew not what to think , By Cock , quoth he , say you so ; do you see ? and then at him he let fly : With Hand and Foot , and so they went to' and the Word it was , Heigh , Boys , heigh ; Your Words , quoth the Dragon , I don't understand , then to it they fell all at all : Like two wild Boars , so fierce : I may compare great Things with small : Two Days and a Night with this Dragon did fight our Champion on the Ground : Tho' their Strength it was great , their Skill it was neat , they never had one Wound . At length the hard Earth began for to quake , the Dragon gave him such a Knock : Which made him to reel , and straight he thought to lift him as high as a Rock , And then let him fallen : But More of More-hall , like a valiant Son of Mars : As he came like a Lout , so he turn'd him about , and hit him a Kick on the A -- se . O , quoth the Dragon , with a deep Sighs , and turn'd six Times together ; Sobbing and tearing , cursing and swearing , out of his Throat of Leather ; More of More-hall , Oh thou Rascal , would I had seen thee never : With the Thing at thy Foot thou hast prick'd my Arse-gut , and I am undone for ever . Murder , Murder , the Dragon cry'd , alack ! alack ! for Grief ; Had you but miss'd that Place , you could have done me no Mischief : Then his Head he shak'd , trembled and quak'd , and down he [ l ] ay'd and cry'd : First on one Knee , then on Back tumbled he , so groan'd , kick'd , sh -- tO , and dy'd . SHEFFIELD : Printed and Sold by John Garnet . And Excellent BALLAD , Of a most Dreadful COMBATE Fought between More of More-hall , and the Dragon of Wantley . OLD Stories tell , how Hercules a Dragon slew at Lurna ; With Seven Heads , and Fourteen Eyes , to see and well discern a : But he had a Club this Dragon to drub , or he'd ne'er have don't , I'll warrant you ; But More of More-hall , with nothing at all , he slew the Dragon of Wantley . This Dragon had two furious Wings , each one upon each Shoulder : With a Sting in his Tail , as long as a Flail , which made him bolder and bolder : He had long Claws , and in his Jaws four and forty Teeth of Iron : With a Hide as tough as any Buff , which did him round environ . Have you not herd of the Trojan Horse , with Seventy Men in his Belly ? This Dragon was not quite so big , but very near , I'll tell you : Devoured he poor Children three , that could not with him grapple ; And at one Sup he eat them up , as a Man would eat and Apple . All Sorts of Cattle this Dragon did ea some say he eat up Trees ; And that the Forest sure he would devour by Degrees : For Houses & Churches were to him Geese & Turkeys , he eat all and left none behind : But some Nuts dear Jack which he could not crack , which on the Hills you will find . In Yorkshire , near fair Rotherham , the Place I know [ it ] well : Some two or three Miles , or thereabouts , I vow , I cannot tell ; But there is a Hedge , just on the Hill Edge , and Matthew's House hard by i Oh! there and then was this Dragon's Den , you could not choose but spy it . Some say this Dragon was a Witch ; some say he was a Devil : For from his Nose a Smoke arose , and with it burning Snivel ; Which he cast off , when he did cough , into a Well that stands by ; Which made it look just like a Brook running with burning Brandy . Hard by a furious Knight there dwelled , of whom all Towns did ring : For he could wrestle , play at Quarterstaff , kick , cuff , and huff , call Son of a Whore , do any Kind of Thing : By the Tail and the Mane , with his Hands twain , he swung a Horse till he was dead : And what is stranger , he for very Anger , eat him all up but his Head. These Children , as I told , being ea Men , Women , Girls , and Boys , Sighing and Sobbing , came to his Lodging , and made a hideous Noise : Oh! save us all More of More-hall , thou peerless Knight of these Woods ; Do but slay this Dragon , who won't leave us a Rag on , we'll give thee all our Goods . Tut , tut , quoth he , no Goods I won but I want , I want , in sooth , A fair Maid of Sixteen , that's brisk , and smiles about the Mouth : Hair black as a Sloe , both above and below , with Blushes her Cheeks adorning : To 'noint me o'er Night , e'er I go to Fight , and to dress me in the Morning . This being done , he did engage to hew this Dragon down : But first he went strong Armour to bespeak at Sheffield Town : With Spikes all about , not within but without , of Steel so sharp and strong : Both behind and before , Arms , Legs , and all o'er , some five or six Inches long . Had you but seen him in this Dress , how fierce he look'd , and how big ; You would have thought him to have been , some Egyptian Porcupig : He frighten'd all , Cats , Dogs , and all , each Cow , each Horse , and each Hog ; For fear they did flee , for they took him to be , some strange Outlandish Hedgehog . To see this Fight all People then , god upon Trees and Houses : On Churches some , and Chimneys too , but they put on their Trowses , Not to spoil their Hose : As soon as he arose , to make him strong and mighty : He drank by the Tale six Pots of Ale , and a Quart of Aqua Vitae . It is not Strength that always wins , for Wit does Strength excel : Which made our cunning Champion creep down into a Well : Where he did think this Dragon would drink , and so he did in Truth : And as he stoop'd low , he rose up and cry'd Boh ! and he hit him on the Mouth . Oh! quoth the Dragon , pox take you , come out , thou that disturb'st me in my Drink : With that he turn'd , and sh -- tO at him , good lack , how he did stink ! Beshrew thy Soul , thy Body is foul : thy Dung smells not like Balsam : Thou Son of a Whore , thou stink'st so soar , sure thy Diet is unwholesome . Our Politic Knight , on the other Side , crept out upon the Brink : And gave the Dragon such a Dowse , he knew not what to think , By Cock , quoth he , say you so ; do you see ? and then at him he let fly : With Hand and Foot , and so they went to' and the Word it was , Heigh , Boys , heigh ; Your Words , quoth the Dragon , I don't understand , then to it they fell all at all : Like two wild Boars , so fierce : I may compare great Things with small : Two Days and a Night with this Dragon did fight our Champion on the Ground : Tho' their Strength it was great , their Skill it was neat , they never had one Wound . At length the hard Earth began for to quake , the Dragon gave him such a Knock : Which made him to reel , and straight he thought to lift him as high as a Rock , And then let him fallen : But More of More-hall , like a valiant Son of Mars : As he came like a Lout , so he turn'd him about , and hit him a Kick on the A -- se . O , quoth the Dragon , with a deep Sighs , and turn'd six Times together ; Sobbing and tearing , cursing and swearing , out of his Throat of Leather ; More of More-hall , Oh thou Rascal , would I had seen thee never : With the Thing at thy Foot thou hast prick'd my Arse-gut , and I am undone for ever . Murder , Murder , the Dragon cry'd , alack ! alack ! for Grief ; Had you but miss'd that Place , you could have done me no Mischief : Then his Head he shak'd , trembled and quak'd , and down he [ l ] ay'd and cry'd : First on one Knee , then on Back tumbled he , so groan'd , kick'd , sh -- tO , and dy'd . SHEFFIELD : Printed and Sold by John Garnet . 