Constance [ and ] Anthony : OR , AND Admirable New Northern STORY , Of two constant Lovers , as I understand , Were born near Appleby in Westmorland ; The Lad's name Anthony , Constance the Lass ; To Sea they went both and great Dangers did pass : How they suffer'd Ship [ w ] rack on the Coast of Spain , For two Years divided , and then met again ; By wondered Fortune and Care accident , And now both live at Home with Joy and Content . To the Tune of , I would thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . [ Two ] Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth a gallant History : They lov'd exceeding well , as plainly does appear ; But that which I shall tell , the like you ne'er did hear : Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll went along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , his Calling did him bind , My Constance , Dear , quoth he , I must leave thee behind ; I prithee do not grieve , thy Tears will not prevail ; I'll think on thee . my Sweet when the Ships under sail , But still , etc How may that be ? said he , consider well the case . Quoth she , Sweet Anthony , I'll bide not in this place : If thou gang , so will I , of the means , do not doubt ; A Woman's Policy great matters may find out , My bonny Anthony , etc , I would be very glad , but prithee tell me how ? I'll dress me like a Lad , what say'st thou to me now ? The Sea thou can'st not brook , yes , very well , quoth she , I'll Scullion to the Cook , for thy sweet company : My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll went along with thee . Anthony's leave she had , and dressed in Man's array , She seem'd the blithest Lad seen on a Summer's day . O see what Love can do , at home she will not hide : With her true Love she'll go , let weal or woe betide : My dearest Anthony , my dearest Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . In the Ship 'twas her lot to be Under cook ; And at the Fire hight , wondered pains she took : She served e'ry one fitting to their degree : And now and then alone she kissed Anthony : My bonny , etc Alack and welladay , by tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , upon the Coast of Spain , To the mercy of the waves : they all committed were , Constance her own self saves , then she cries for her Dear , My bonny , etc Swimming upon a plank , at Bilbo she god ashore , First she did Heaven thank , then she lamented soar , Oh woe is me , said she , the saddest lass alive , My dearest Anthony , now on the Sea does drive : My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . What shall become of me , why do I strive for shore , Sith my sweet Anthony , I never shall see more ? Fair Constance do not grieve , the same good Providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet , but he is far from hence : Still she , etc A Spanish Merchant rich , saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , and was so grievous sad : He had in England been , and English understood , He having herd and seen , he in amazement stood : Still she etc The Merchant asked her , what was that Anthony , Quoth she , my Brother Sir , who came from thence with me . He did her entertain , thinking she was a Boy , Two Years she did remain , before she met her Joy : Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . Anthony was up taken , by and English Runagade , With whom he did remain , at the Sea-roving trade : I th' nature of a Slave , he did i'th' Gally row , Thus he his Life did save , but Constance did not know : Still she cries , Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . Now mark what came to pass , see how , the Fates did work , A Ship that her Master's was surpriz'd this English-Turk , And into Bilbo brought all that aboard her were ; Constance full little thought , Anthony was so near : Still she , etc When they were come on shore , Anthony and the rest , She who was sad before , was now with Joy poss The Merchant much did muse at this so sudden change , He did demand the News , which unto him was strange : Now she , etc Upon her Knees she fell , unto her Master kind , And all the truth did tell , nothing she kept behind : At which he did admire , and in a Ship of Spain , Not paying for their hire , he sent them home again : Now she , etc The Spanish Merchant rich did of's own bounty give A sum of Gold , on which they now most bravely live : And now in Westmorland , they were join'd hand in hand ; Constance and Anthony , they live in mirth and glee : Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Good Providence we see hath guarded thee and me . FINIS . Constance [ and ] Anthony : OR , AND Admirable New Northern STORY , Of two constant Lovers , as I understand , Were born near Appleby in Westmorland ; The Lad's name Anthony , Constance the Lass ; To Sea they went both and great Dangers did pass : How they suffer'd Ship [ w ] rack on the Coast of Spain , For two Years divided , and then met again ; By wondered Fortune and Care accident , And now both live at Home with Joy and Content . To the Tune of , I would thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . [ Two ] Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth a gallant History : They lov'd exceeding well , as plainly does appear ; But that which I shall tell , the like you ne'er did hear : Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll went along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , his Calling did him bind , My Constance , Dear , quoth he , I must leave thee behind ; I prithee do not grieve , thy Tears will not prevail ; I'll think on thee . my Sweet when the Ships under sail , But still , etc How may that be ? said he , consider well the case . Quoth she , Sweet Anthony , I'll bide not in this place : If thou gang , so will I , of the means , do not doubt ; A Woman's Policy great matters may find out , My bonny Anthony , etc , I would be very glad , but prithee tell me how ? I'll dress me like a Lad , what say'st thou to me now ? The Sea thou can'st not brook , yes , very well , quoth she , I'll Scullion to the Cook , for thy sweet company : My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll went along with thee . Anthony's leave she had , and dressed in Man's array , She seem'd the blithest Lad seen on a Summer's day . O see what Love can do , at home she will not hide : With her true Love she'll go , let weal or woe betide : My dearest Anthony , my dearest Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . In the Ship 'twas her lot to be Under cook ; And at the Fire hight , wondered pains she took : She served e'ry one fitting to their degree : And now and then alone she kissed Anthony : My bonny , etc Alack and welladay , by tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , upon the Coast of Spain , To the mercy of the waves : they all committed were , Constance her own self saves , then she cries for her Dear , My bonny , etc Swimming upon a plank , at Bilbo she god ashore , First she did Heaven thank , then she lamented soar , Oh woe is me , said she , the saddest lass alive , My dearest Anthony , now on the Sea does drive : My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . What shall become of me , why do I strive for shore , Sith my sweet Anthony , I never shall see more ? Fair Constance do not grieve , the same good Providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet , but he is far from hence : Still she , etc A Spanish Merchant rich , saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , and was so grievous sad : He had in England been , and English understood , He having herd and seen , he in amazement stood : Still she etc The Merchant asked her , what was that Anthony , Quoth she , my Brother Sir , who came from thence with me . He did her entertain , thinking she was a Boy , Two Years she did remain , before she met her Joy : Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . Anthony was up taken , by and English Runagade , With whom he did remain , at the Sea-roving trade : I th' nature of a Slave , he did i'th' Gally row , Thus he his Life did save , but Constance did not know : Still she cries , Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . Now mark what came to pass , see how , the Fates did work , A Ship that her Master's was surpriz'd this English-Turk , And into Bilbo brought all that aboard her were ; Constance full little thought , Anthony was so near : Still she , etc When they were come on shore , Anthony and the rest , She who was sad before , was now with Joy poss The Merchant much did muse at this so sudden change , He did demand the News , which unto him was strange : Now she , etc Upon her Knees she fell , unto her Master kind , And all the truth did tell , nothing she kept behind : At which he did admire , and in a Ship of Spain , Not paying for their hire , he sent them home again : Now she , etc The Spanish Merchant rich did of's own bounty give A sum of Gold , on which they now most bravely live : And now in Westmorland , they were join'd hand in hand ; Constance and Anthony , they live in mirth and glee : Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Good Providence we see hath guarded thee and me . FINIS . 