CROMLET's LILT , To be sung with its own proper Tune : SInce all thy Vows , false Maid , are blown to Air ; And my poor Heart betray'd to sad despair ; Into some Wilderness , My grief I will express , And thy hard Heartedness , Oh cruel Fate . Have I not graved our Loves , on every Tree : In yonder Warden Groves , though false thou be ; Was there not a solemn Oath plighted between us both ; Thou thy Faith , I my Troth , real to be ? Some gloomy Place I'll find , some doleful shade , Where neither Sun nor Wind ne'er Entrance had . Into that hallow Cave , Myself I would down leave , For that Thing I do crave , call'd Constancy . Wild Fruit shall be my Meat , I'll drink the Spring . The Earth shall be my Seat ; I for covering , I'll have the starry Sky , My Corpse to canopy . Till my Soul from me fly to Heaven's King . I'll have no Funeral Fire , no tears for me , No Grave doe I desire , no Obsequy ; The courteous Redbreast he With Leaves will cover me , And sing my Elegy , with doleful Voice . And when I Soulless am , I'll visit thee : Oh thou obdurest Dame , whose Cruelty Hath kill'd the kindest Heart , E'er pierc'd by Cupid's Dart , No Grief my Soul shall part from loving thee . Her REPLY , HE whom I must affect , does me disdain , His causeless Disrespect makes me complain , Wherefore I'll me address into some Wilderness . Where unheard I'll express my anxious Pain . Did we not both conjure , by Stygian Lake ; That sacred Oath most pure , the Gods did take ; That we should both prove true , You to me , I to you . By that most solemn Vow we both did make . But thou perfidiously didst violate Thy Promise made to me , to my Regrete . For all the great Respect , Wherewith I the affect , Is paid with such Neglect , Love's turn'd to Hate . What Tyrrant e'er could hatch , though , Inhumane , A torturing Rack , and match to this my Pain : Oh barbarous Cruelty , That I for loving thee , Should basely murder'd be by thy Disdain . I'll go find out a Cell , where Light ne'er shin'd ; There I'll resolve to dwell , and be confin'd , Until it pleases thee , With Love to pity me , Forsake thy Cruelty and prove more kind . In that dark Vault I'll call for Bats and Owls , The Scriech-Owl , worst of all Prodigious Fowls , Shall be my Mate by Day , By Night with her I'll stay , In dark and uncouth Way , 'mongst wandering Souls . And in that strange Exile I'll thee arrest , among those Monsters vile , to be my Guest . Until that thou relent , And thy hard Heart repent ; Freely to give Consent to my Request . No Clothes shall deck my Skin , no Raiment soft ; But Hair cloth rough and thin , that's comely wrough No Bed will I lie on . My pillow shall be Stone , Each Accent prove a Groan , repeated oft , No danty Dish I'll eat , compos'd by are No Sauces for my Meat , sweet sour or tart . My Food shall be wild Fruits , Green Herbs and unboil'd Roots , Such as poor Hermit's eat in wild Deserts . All Solace , Mirth and Game I will despise , A doleful Mourning then , with watering Eyes . Shall be my Music found , Till all the Hills resound , And fill the Valleys round with piteous Cries . Yet for all this I'll not abandon thee , Nor altar in a Jot my first Decree ; But in Despite of Fate , Thy Grief to aggravate , I'll love thee , tho' thou hate , until I die . Another Reply . ALL my desires are past , sadly I groan , O! All my Hope's are past , pity my Moan : I'll to some quiet Grove , Where I shall clearly prove , That I am wrong'd by Love Oh cruel Fate ! Deplorable is my State , still more and more ; I'm subject to cruel Fate , I mourn therefore : Yet I'll be constant still , Let Fortune frown as it will , Heavens keep him from all Ill , whom I adore . Grief added unto Grief , each Day I die , I can find no Relief , where shall a fly ? I'll to some desert Place , Where none shall see my Face , There I'll bewail my Case until I die . Silent I'll be a while , hopping the best , Fortune perhaps may smile , and send me Res I will expect the End , And on my Fates attend , The Gods some Help will send to one distressed . I'll to a Hermitage , for I do see Nought in this present Age , but Misery . There none will me molest , I will not be oppressed , But will find quiet Cast until I die . Vain Hope's I bid adieu , for they'er not sure : Farewell now Fortune true , for I'm secure ; Far from the Frowns of Fate And undeserved Hate , Far better is my State , than was before . FINIS . CROMLET's LILT , To be sung with its own proper Tune : SInce all thy Vows , false Maid , are blown to Air ; And my poor Heart betray'd to sad despair ; Into some Wilderness , My grief I will express , And thy hard Heartedness , Oh cruel Fate . Have I not graved our Loves , on every Tree : In yonder Warden Groves , though false thou be ; Was there not a solemn Oath plighted between us both ; Thou thy Faith , I my Troth , real to be ? Some gloomy Place I'll find , some doleful shade , Where neither Sun nor Wind ne'er Entrance had . Into that hallow Cave , Myself I would down leave , For that Thing I do crave , call'd Constancy . Wild Fruit shall be my Meat , I'll drink the Spring . The Earth shall be my Seat ; I for covering , I'll have the starry Sky , My Corpse to canopy . Till my Soul from me fly to Heaven's King . I'll have no Funeral Fire , no tears for me , No Grave doe I desire , no Obsequy ; The courteous Redbreast he With Leaves will cover me , And sing my Elegy , with doleful Voice . And when I Soulless am , I'll visit thee : Oh thou obdurest Dame , whose Cruelty Hath kill'd the kindest Heart , E'er pierc'd by Cupid's Dart , No Grief my Soul shall part from loving thee . Her REPLY , HE whom I must affect , does me disdain , His causeless Disrespect makes me complain , Wherefore I'll me address into some Wilderness . Where unheard I'll express my anxious Pain . Did we not both conjure , by Stygian Lake ; That sacred Oath most pure , the Gods did take ; That we should both prove true , You to me , I to you . By that most solemn Vow we both did make . But thou perfidiously didst violate Thy Promise made to me , to my Regrete . For all the great Respect , Wherewith I the affect , Is paid with such Neglect , Love's turn'd to Hate . What Tyrrant e'er could hatch , though , Inhumane , A torturing Rack , and match to this my Pain : Oh barbarous Cruelty , That I for loving thee , Should basely murder'd be by thy Disdain . I'll go find out a Cell , where Light ne'er shin'd ; There I'll resolve to dwell , and be confin'd , Until it pleases thee , With Love to pity me , Forsake thy Cruelty and prove more kind . In that dark Vault I'll call for Bats and Owls , The Scriech-Owl , worst of all Prodigious Fowls , Shall be my Mate by Day , By Night with her I'll stay , In dark and uncouth Way , 'mongst wandering Souls . And in that strange Exile I'll thee arrest , among those Monsters vile , to be my Guest . Until that thou relent , And thy hard Heart repent ; Freely to give Consent to my Request . No Clothes shall deck my Skin , no Raiment soft ; But Hair cloth rough and thin , that's comely wrough No Bed will I lie on . My pillow shall be Stone , Each Accent prove a Groan , repeated oft , No danty Dish I'll eat , compos'd by are No Sauces for my Meat , sweet sour or tart . My Food shall be wild Fruits , Green Herbs and unboil'd Roots , Such as poor Hermit's eat in wild Deserts . All Solace , Mirth and Game I will despise , A doleful Mourning then , with watering Eyes . Shall be my Music found , Till all the Hills resound , And fill the Valleys round with piteous Cries . Yet for all this I'll not abandon thee , Nor altar in a Jot my first Decree ; But in Despite of Fate , Thy Grief to aggravate , I'll love thee , tho' thou hate , until I die . Another Reply . ALL my desires are past , sadly I groan , O! All my Hope's are past , pity my Moan : I'll to some quiet Grove , Where I shall clearly prove , That I am wrong'd by Love Oh cruel Fate ! Deplorable is my State , still more and more ; I'm subject to cruel Fate , I mourn therefore : Yet I'll be constant still , Let Fortune frown as it will , Heavens keep him from all Ill , whom I adore . Grief added unto Grief , each Day I die , I can find no Relief , where shall a fly ? I'll to some desert Place , Where none shall see my Face , There I'll bewail my Case until I die . Silent I'll be a while , hopping the best , Fortune perhaps may smile , and send me Res I will expect the End , And on my Fates attend , The Gods some Help will send to one distressed . I'll to a Hermitage , for I do see Nought in this present Age , but Misery . There none will me molest , I will not be oppressed , But will find quiet Cast until I die . Vain Hope's I bid adieu , for they'er not sure : Farewell now Fortune true , for I'm secure ; Far from the Frowns of Fate And undeserved Hate , Far better is my State , than was before . FINIS . 