And Excellent New Song , CALLED , And End to our Sorrows . To the Tune of , I Laugh at the Pope's Devises . I . SIng Praise to our Grac'ous Queen Anne , Who Quietly sits on Her Throne , Having well god rid of a Clan , That too Saucily Wise were grown . 2. For their Councils ( as well it is seen ) And Schemes were so very Correct , They left no Pow'r in the Queen , Or Amendments to Make or Reject . 3. Which was a Just Cause to discard 'm , And lodge the whole Power in One . Heav'n , doubtless , will justly Reward him , If he Finishes , as h' has begun . 4. His Actions so wise are and just , Without any sinister Ends ; Although he should do , what his Trust Will not warrant , we will be his Friends . 5. His Capacity's greater by far , than Any Statesman that e'er went before him ; Having paid a vast Debt to a Farthing Without Money , for which we Adore him . 6. He'll Silver in Plenty bring home By the Trade fixed in the South Sea ; Which , if it to any thing Come , No doubt it will something be . 7. Our Credit was once at a stand , But now 'tis Restor'd again ; Since Nine or Ten does Command What with Six was endeavour'd in vain . 8. And Fifty per Cent. has such Savour 'Twill always our Navy supply , And who , for trusting his Favour , Can give better Reasons Why ? 9. But this is but part of the Sum , That to his great Wisdom we owe , A Peace he has under his Thumb , That does all his great Act'ons outgo . 10. By which , of the Balance of Power , We need have no farther Care ; Since Philip , of Spain , shall Restore Ev'ry Inch that Old Laws can spare . 11. The Act of Succession shall be Confirm'd to the Joy of the Nat'on ; Of which , we all must agree , That Perkin has no Expectat'on . 12. Of our Trade too , is taken great Care ; Which cannot be reckon'd in vain : For now we have nothing to fear , If France does her Promise Maintain . 13. For th' Allies ; the Quest'on is , Whither ( Such Care of our selves being Taken ) 'Tis Mater'al to keep 'm together , To save one another's Bacon . 14. 'Tis a Work so hard to be done , Each separate State to please ; 'Tis better to let it alone , Than thereby to obstruct such a Peace . 15. While the Church , as Establish'd by Law , Is fenc'd with such Zealous Defenders ; As soon we may dread any Clause That may Favour the Pope , as Dissenters . 16. All this being gain'd by the Peace , Will sure drive away all our Fears ; Espec'ally since a long Lease , Is secur'd of at least Three Years . 17. Then sing to the Praise and Glory Of Her who sits on the Throne . Let every Whig and Tory Be thankful for this when done . 18. Till when , for Better or Worse , We Impat'ently wait the Success ; Which a Blessing will be or a Curse , Pray God , it may be for the Best . Printed in the Year MDCCXI . And Excellent New Song , CALLED , And End to our Sorrows . To the Tune of , I Laugh at the Pope's Devises . I . SIng Praise to our Grac'ous Queen Anne , Who Quietly sits on Her Throne , Having well god rid of a Clan , That too Saucily Wise were grown . 2. For their Councils ( as well it is seen ) And Schemes were so very Correct , They left no Pow'r in the Queen , Or Amendments to Make or Reject . 3. Which was a Just Cause to discard 'm , And lodge the whole Power in One . Heav'n , doubtless , will justly Reward him , If he Finishes , as h' has begun . 4. His Actions so wise are and just , Without any sinister Ends ; Although he should do , what his Trust Will not warrant , we will be his Friends . 5. His Capacity's greater by far , than Any Statesman that e'er went before him ; Having paid a vast Debt to a Farthing Without Money , for which we Adore him . 6. He'll Silver in Plenty bring home By the Trade fixed in the South Sea ; Which , if it to any thing Come , No doubt it will something be . 7. Our Credit was once at a stand , But now 'tis Restor'd again ; Since Nine or Ten does Command What with Six was endeavour'd in vain . 8. And Fifty per Cent. has such Savour 'Twill always our Navy supply , And who , for trusting his Favour , Can give better Reasons Why ? 9. But this is but part of the Sum , That to his great Wisdom we owe , A Peace he has under his Thumb , That does all his great Act'ons outgo . 10. By which , of the Balance of Power , We need have no farther Care ; Since Philip , of Spain , shall Restore Ev'ry Inch that Old Laws can spare . 11. The Act of Succession shall be Confirm'd to the Joy of the Nat'on ; Of which , we all must agree , That Perkin has no Expectat'on . 12. Of our Trade too , is taken great Care ; Which cannot be reckon'd in vain : For now we have nothing to fear , If France does her Promise Maintain . 13. For th' Allies ; the Quest'on is , Whither ( Such Care of our selves being Taken ) 'Tis Mater'al to keep 'm together , To save one another's Bacon . 14. 'Tis a Work so hard to be done , Each separate State to please ; 'Tis better to let it alone , Than thereby to obstruct such a Peace . 15. While the Church , as Establish'd by Law , Is fenc'd with such Zealous Defenders ; As soon we may dread any Clause That may Favour the Pope , as Dissenters . 16. All this being gain'd by the Peace , Will sure drive away all our Fears ; Espec'ally since a long Lease , Is secur'd of at least Three Years . 17. Then sing to the Praise and Glory Of Her who sits on the Throne . Let every Whig and Tory Be thankful for this when done . 18. Till when , for Better or Worse , We Impat'ently wait the Success ; Which a Blessing will be or a Curse , Pray God , it may be for the Best . Printed in the Year MDCCXI . 