Amintor's Lamentation for Celea's Unkindness . Both Sexes from this Song may learn , Of what they should beware : How in Extremes they may discern , Unkindness and Despair . To a new Tune . SINCE Celia's my Foe , To the Deserts I'll go , Where some River , for ever , shall echo my Woe ! The Trees will appear , More relenting than her , In the Morning adorning each Leaf with a Tear . When I made my sad Moan To the Rocks all alone , From each Hollow will follow some pitiful Groan But with silent Disdain , She requites all my Pain : To my Mourning , returning no Answer again . O why was I born , To Fate so forlorn ? To inherit no Merit , But Anguish and Scorn . Yet my Affection is such , As no Blemish can touch Yet I'm slighted and spighted , for loving too much . Perhaps could I prove , More unjust to my Love , I might find her yet kinder , and Pity might move : But I'll choose to obey ; Tho' I die by the Way : Yet 'tis better than get her , by going astray . Then why should you fly My fair Celia ? O why ? When to please you , 'tis easy , If for Amintor to die Your Lover you'd shun , You no Danger shall run ; Him you banish , will vanish , and from you begone . Stay Celia unkind , Will you leave me behind ? Let me enter , and venture , My self with the Wind. Ah! from me will you part , Who so loves your Desert ? Either tarry , or carry Your Slave with his Heart . Were you but secure , I'd your Absence endure , Were all Danger , a Stranger , to a Virgin so pure : But some insolent Wave , May your Merit outbrave , Both regardless , and careless , of me your poor Slave . Yet Storm shall not dare , To assault one so fair , To attend you , I'll send you , Sighs softer than Air . The Nymphs of the deep , My dear Celia shall keep , On a Pillow , each Billow , shall lull you asleep , The Seas they shall dance , And Winds shall advance , With your Galley , to dally , And guide you to France . While I from the Shore , My fair Idol adore ; 'till that Neptune your Captain , Hath wasted you o'er . Then Celea adieu , When I cease to pursue , You'l discover no Lover , Was ever so true . Your sad Shepherd flies , From those dear cruel Eyes Which now seeing , his being , decays and he die . Yet 'tis better to run , To the Fates we can't shun ; Than for ever , t'endeavour , what cannot be wone : What is this I have done , That Amintor alone Is thus treated , and hated , for loving but one ? And thus I complain , Tho' 'tis all in Vain ; Yet the Trouble is double , to stifle my Pain : The Sea for the Shore , I as well might implore , They're as moving , and Loving , as her I adore . Then since 'tis the Fate , Of any wretched State Without Pity , 'tis fit I , submit to her Hate . For as Winter comes on , When Apollo is gone , So declining , and Pining , she leaves me alone . 'Tis better than so , Tho' you force me to go , You abuse me , to accuse me , of being your Foe , If well understood , 'twill be all for your good ; I'm the kinder , to hinder the Heat of your Blood . You swore you'd be true But I well enough knew You'd deceive me , and leave me , as now I must you . For those that are Lewd , And inclin'd to be rude , 'Tis the Fashion , in Passion , to Swear and Delude . I'd slaken your Fire , 'Till your Flame did expire ; If with Honour the Donor could grant your Desire : But much were I to blame , To extinguish your Flame . By exposing , and losing , my Virtue and Fame . Then take it not ill , That I do not fulfil Your requesting ; protesting , I honour you still , But more Safety I find , In the Waves of the Wind , To desert you , with Virtue , than staying behind . You'll Pardon my Lord That I cannot afford , Your demanding , by Landing , to fetch you abroad . Since I must not comply , You had better to try , If another will smother , the Love I deny . For Thousands there are , That are ten Times as Fair Town or City will fit you with Feature and Air . Such as make new Delights In their amorous Sights , Who in Courting , and sporting , do wear out the Night . What Presents you make , They'le be certain to take : When you're sleepy . they'll keep you , with Pleasure awake , But for me silly Girl , Neither Jewels nor Pearl , Can ever awe me , or draw me to Bed with and Earl , Then good Sir away , 'Tis the best of your Play , To deal plainly , you vainly persuade me to stay : For I find greater Ease In appeasing the Seas , Than assuaging the Raging , of Cupid's Disease . Then since 'tis in Vain , And more to complain ; Take your Pleasure , at Leisure , to talk of your Pain ; To the Wave of the Flood Or the Trees of the Wood , Tell your Story , and Glory , in being so good . In the Notes of your Song , As you sing 'em along , Let your Celia in Ela , be blam'd for the Wrong , But the Kingdom shall know Whither justly or no ; Since Amintor in Winter compell'd me to go . And yet I'll away , For a Year and a Day ; Neither Reason , nor Season , shall force me to stay . Tho' the Waves in their Pride , Seem the Rocks to divide ; By Entreaties , to Thetis I safely shall ride . Then since we must Part , You may take back your Heart 'Tis a Present unpleasant , and favours of are I like not the Charm , For I find there is harm , If we handle , and dandle , a Snake 'till he's warm , Then Amintor farewell , When the Story you tell , You may blame me , and shame me , and all will be well , Yet in Spite of your Skill , Tho' poor Celea you kill , You could never deceive her , to yield to your Will . FINIS . Amintor's Lamentation for Celea's Unkindness . Both Sexes from this Song may learn , Of what they should beware : How in Extremes they may discern , Unkindness and Despair . To a new Tune . SINCE Celia's my Foe , To the Deserts I'll go , Where some River , for ever , shall echo my Woe ! The Trees will appear , More relenting than her , In the Morning adorning each Leaf with a Tear . When I made my sad Moan To the Rocks all alone , From each Hollow will follow some pitiful Groan But with silent Disdain , She requites all my Pain : To my Mourning , returning no Answer again . O why was I born , To Fate so forlorn ? To inherit no Merit , But Anguish and Scorn . Yet my Affection is such , As no Blemish can touch Yet I'm slighted and spighted , for loving too much . Perhaps could I prove , More unjust to my Love , I might find her yet kinder , and Pity might move : But I'll choose to obey ; Tho' I die by the Way : Yet 'tis better than get her , by going astray . Then why should you fly My fair Celia ? O why ? When to please you , 'tis easy , If for Amintor to die Your Lover you'd shun , You no Danger shall run ; Him you banish , will vanish , and from you begone . Stay Celia unkind , Will you leave me behind ? Let me enter , and venture , My self with the Wind. Ah! from me will you part , Who so loves your Desert ? Either tarry , or carry Your Slave with his Heart . Were you but secure , I'd your Absence endure , Were all Danger , a Stranger , to a Virgin so pure : But some insolent Wave , May your Merit outbrave , Both regardless , and careless , of me your poor Slave . Yet Storm shall not dare , To assault one so fair , To attend you , I'll send you , Sighs softer than Air . The Nymphs of the deep , My dear Celia shall keep , On a Pillow , each Billow , shall lull you asleep , The Seas they shall dance , And Winds shall advance , With your Galley , to dally , And guide you to France . While I from the Shore , My fair Idol adore ; 'till that Neptune your Captain , Hath wasted you o'er . Then Celea adieu , When I cease to pursue , You'l discover no Lover , Was ever so true . Your sad Shepherd flies , From those dear cruel Eyes Which now seeing , his being , decays and he die . Yet 'tis better to run , To the Fates we can't shun ; Than for ever , t'endeavour , what cannot be wone : What is this I have done , That Amintor alone Is thus treated , and hated , for loving but one ? And thus I complain , Tho' 'tis all in Vain ; Yet the Trouble is double , to stifle my Pain : The Sea for the Shore , I as well might implore , They're as moving , and Loving , as her I adore . Then since 'tis the Fate , Of any wretched State Without Pity , 'tis fit I , submit to her Hate . For as Winter comes on , When Apollo is gone , So declining , and Pining , she leaves me alone . 'Tis better than so , Tho' you force me to go , You abuse me , to accuse me , of being your Foe , If well understood , 'twill be all for your good ; I'm the kinder , to hinder the Heat of your Blood . You swore you'd be true But I well enough knew You'd deceive me , and leave me , as now I must you . For those that are Lewd , And inclin'd to be rude , 'Tis the Fashion , in Passion , to Swear and Delude . I'd slaken your Fire , 'Till your Flame did expire ; If with Honour the Donor could grant your Desire : But much were I to blame , To extinguish your Flame . By exposing , and losing , my Virtue and Fame . Then take it not ill , That I do not fulfil Your requesting ; protesting , I honour you still , But more Safety I find , In the Waves of the Wind , To desert you , with Virtue , than staying behind . You'll Pardon my Lord That I cannot afford , Your demanding , by Landing , to fetch you abroad . Since I must not comply , You had better to try , If another will smother , the Love I deny . For Thousands there are , That are ten Times as Fair Town or City will fit you with Feature and Air . Such as make new Delights In their amorous Sights , Who in Courting , and sporting , do wear out the Night . What Presents you make , They'le be certain to take : When you're sleepy . they'll keep you , with Pleasure awake , But for me silly Girl , Neither Jewels nor Pearl , Can ever awe me , or draw me to Bed with and Earl , Then good Sir away , 'Tis the best of your Play , To deal plainly , you vainly persuade me to stay : For I find greater Ease In appeasing the Seas , Than assuaging the Raging , of Cupid's Disease . Then since 'tis in Vain , And more to complain ; Take your Pleasure , at Leisure , to talk of your Pain ; To the Wave of the Flood Or the Trees of the Wood , Tell your Story , and Glory , in being so good . In the Notes of your Song , As you sing 'em along , Let your Celia in Ela , be blam'd for the Wrong , But the Kingdom shall know Whither justly or no ; Since Amintor in Winter compell'd me to go . And yet I'll away , For a Year and a Day ; Neither Reason , nor Season , shall force me to stay . Tho' the Waves in their Pride , Seem the Rocks to divide ; By Entreaties , to Thetis I safely shall ride . Then since we must Part , You may take back your Heart 'Tis a Present unpleasant , and favours of are I like not the Charm , For I find there is harm , If we handle , and dandle , a Snake 'till he's warm , Then Amintor farewell , When the Story you tell , You may blame me , and shame me , and all will be well , Yet in Spite of your Skill , Tho' poor Celea you kill , You could never deceive her , to yield to your Will . FINIS . 