THE Good Fellows Frolic , Or , Kent-Street Clubb . Good people all come mind my merry Tale , And you shall hear the virtue of good Ale , Whose charming power some men's humours hits It robs them of their money and their wits , For he in time will surely money lack , That loves his belly better than his back . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . HEre is a crew of Jovial Blades That lov'd the Nutbrown Ale , They in and Alehouse chanc'd to meet , and told a merry tale . A bonny Seaman was the first , but newly come to Town , And swore that he his Guts could burst with Ale that was so brown . See how the jolly Carrman he does the strong Liquour prize ; He so long in the Alehouse sat , that he drank out his eyes : And groping to get out of door ( Sot like ) he tumbled down , And there he like a madman swore he lov'd the Ale so brown . The nimble Weaver he came in , and swore he'd have a little , To drink good Ale it was no since , though't made him pawn his Shittle : Quoth he , I am a Gentleman , no lusty Country Clown , But yet I love with all my heart the Ale that is so brown . Then next the Blacksmith he came in , and said 'twas mighty hight , He sitting down did thus begin fair maid , bring me a pot Let it be of the very best that none exceeds in town , I tell you true and do not jest , I love the Ale so brown . The prick-louse-Taylor he came in , whose Tongue did run so nimble , And said he would engage for drink his Bodkin and his Thimble : For though with long thin Jaws I look , I valve not a Crown , So I can fill my belly full of Ale that is so brown . The lusty Porter passing by with Basket on his back , He said that he was grievous dry , and needs would pawn his Sack : His angry wife he did not fear , he valued not her frown , So he had that he lov'd so dear , I mean the Ale so brown . The next that came was one of them was of the Gentle Craft , And when that he was wet within , most heartily he laugh'd : Crispin was ne'r so boon as he , though some Kinn to a Crown , And there he sat most merrily , with Ale that was so brown . But at the last a Barber he a mind had for to taste , He called for a pint of drink , and said he was in haste : The drink so pleas'd , he tarried there till he had spent a Crown , 'Twas all the money he could spare for Ale that is so brown . A Broom-man as he passed by his mornings-draught did lack , Because that he no money had he pawn'd his shirt from's back ; And said that he without a shirt would cry Brooms up and down , But yet quoth he I'le merry be with Ale that is so brown . But when all these together met , o what discourse was there , Twould make ones hair to stand and end to hear how they did swear : One was a fool and puppy-dog , the other was a clown , And there they sat and swill'd their guts with Ale that was so brown . The Landlady they did abuse , and call'd her nasty Whore ; Quoth she do you my reckoning pay , and get you out of door ; Of them she could no money get , which caused her to frown , But loath they were to leave behind the Ale that was so brown . Printed for J. Conyers at the sign of the black Raven in Duck Lane . THE Good Fellows Frolic , Or , Kent-Street Clubb . Good people all come mind my merry Tale , And you shall hear the virtue of good Ale , Whose charming power some men's humours hits It robs them of their money and their wits , For he in time will surely money lack , That loves his belly better than his back . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . HEre is a crew of Jovial Blades That lov'd the Nutbrown Ale , They in and Alehouse chanc'd to meet , and told a merry tale . A bonny Seaman was the first , but newly come to Town , And swore that he his Guts could burst with Ale that was so brown . See how the jolly Carrman he does the strong Liquour prize ; He so long in the Alehouse sat , that he drank out his eyes : And groping to get out of door ( Sot like ) he tumbled down , And there he like a madman swore he lov'd the Ale so brown . The nimble Weaver he came in , and swore he'd have a little , To drink good Ale it was no since , though't made him pawn his Shittle : Quoth he , I am a Gentleman , no lusty Country Clown , But yet I love with all my heart the Ale that is so brown . Then next the Blacksmith he came in , and said 'twas mighty hight , He sitting down did thus begin fair maid , bring me a pot Let it be of the very best that none exceeds in town , I tell you true and do not jest , I love the Ale so brown . The prick-louse-Taylor he came in , whose Tongue did run so nimble , And said he would engage for drink his Bodkin and his Thimble : For though with long thin Jaws I look , I valve not a Crown , So I can fill my belly full of Ale that is so brown . The lusty Porter passing by with Basket on his back , He said that he was grievous dry , and needs would pawn his Sack : His angry wife he did not fear , he valued not her frown , So he had that he lov'd so dear , I mean the Ale so brown . The next that came was one of them was of the Gentle Craft , And when that he was wet within , most heartily he laugh'd : Crispin was ne'r so boon as he , though some Kinn to a Crown , And there he sat most merrily , with Ale that was so brown . But at the last a Barber he a mind had for to taste , He called for a pint of drink , and said he was in haste : The drink so pleas'd , he tarried there till he had spent a Crown , 'Twas all the money he could spare for Ale that is so brown . A Broom-man as he passed by his mornings-draught did lack , Because that he no money had he pawn'd his shirt from's back ; And said that he without a shirt would cry Brooms up and down , But yet quoth he I'le merry be with Ale that is so brown . But when all these together met , o what discourse was there , Twould make ones hair to stand and end to hear how they did swear : One was a fool and puppy-dog , the other was a clown , And there they sat and swill'd their guts with Ale that was so brown . The Landlady they did abuse , and call'd her nasty Whore ; Quoth she do you my reckoning pay , and get you out of door ; Of them she could no money get , which caused her to frown , But loath they were to leave behind the Ale that was so brown . Printed for J. Conyers at the sign of the black Raven in Duck Lane . 