THE Good FELLOW . A new Song SIX long years have I serv'd of my time , And no one will set me free , And so I will be a raking young blade , And care for no body . So I will rant and roar and call for more , Let them say what they will ; For I am resolv'd as long as I live To be a Good Fellow still . I have a good old father at home , And I have cost him many a pound , And now to make him amends for all , I will travel the country all round ; I will tell them how I have spent my , And in roving I have had my fill , So I am resolved as long as I live To be a Good Fellow still . I have a good old Mother at home , And I have cost her many a tear , And now to make her amends for all , I will travel both far and near . I will tell them how I have spent my time , And in roving I have had my fill , So I am resolved as long as I live To be a Good Fellow still . My true love sent me a broad piece of gold , I view'd it wond'rous well ; But that will neither purchase houses nor land , Nor keep me from heaven or hell . But that will purchase a good brown bowl , As the girls may drink their fill ; So I am resolved as long as I live , To be a Good Fellow still . THE Good FELLOW . A new Song SIX long years have I serv'd of my time , And no one will set me free , And so I will be a raking young blade , And care for no body . So I will rant and roar and call for more , Let them say what they will ; For I am resolv'd as long as I live To be a Good Fellow still . I have a good old father at home , And I have cost him many a pound , And now to make him amends for all , I will travel the country all round ; I will tell them how I have spent my , And in roving I have had my fill , So I am resolved as long as I live To be a Good Fellow still . I have a good old Mother at home , And I have cost her many a tear , And now to make her amends for all , I will travel both far and near . I will tell them how I have spent my time , And in roving I have had my fill , So I am resolved as long as I live To be a Good Fellow still . My true love sent me a broad piece of gold , I view'd it wond'rous well ; But that will neither purchase houses nor land , Nor keep me from heaven or hell . But that will purchase a good brown bowl , As the girls may drink their fill ; So I am resolved as long as I live , To be a Good Fellow still . 