THE PARENTS PIOUS GIFT ; Or a Choice PRESENT for CHILDREN . Set forth in a DIALOGUE between a Religious FATHER and and Extravagant Son. Containing a Dispute about bad Company , or evil Communication , Pride , Drunkenness , riotous Living , and all the Vanities of a vicious Course of Life : for which the young Man earnestly con - tended , till by the Grace of GOD , and the Endeavours of his religious Father , he was brought from the Danger of Death and Destruction to the Hope of Life and Immortality . Concluding with the young Man's Christian Courage and Conquest over the Tempter , who came to disburb him in his private Closet when in Tears and Repenting : It being and excellent Pattern for all young Persons to set before them in these present sinful Times . FATHER . TELL me sweet Son , what you intend to do ? This vicious Course of Life will bring you to Destruction , if you venture to proceed . Therefore return , return , my Son , with Speed . SON . What need you thus concern yourself with me , Resolv'd I am to take my Liberty ; Why should I not since other Gallants do ? The World methinks is pleasant to my view . FATHER . Those pleasant Joys but for a Moment last , And when that Golden Dream is gone and passed , The sting of Conscience then brings up the Rear , Consider this , my Son , and stand in Fear . SON . What should I fear that has this World at will , Beside my Fellow boon Companions still Delight themselves in Mirth and Jovialty , Behold , they feast , dance , drink , and why not I ? FATHER . If wilful Men will wilfully run on , And break through all the Laws of God and Man ; It is no Christian Argument that you , For Frindship's Sake should sin , and perish too . SON . Perhaps , I feast as other Gallants do , Perhaps with Wine I pass my Time away ; With such Delights my Senses shall be coy'd , Why were they sent if not to be enjoy'd ; FATHER . My Son , these Creatures are as Blessings sent , Purely for Man's refreshing Nourishment ? But if in any wise they are abus'd , How can you think the since can be excus'd . Thy lawless Mirth disturbs my quiet Rest , My aged Heart lies bleeding in my Breast , To see the sad Destruction of my Son , Why will you thus to dismal Ruin run ? Why will you not bad Company forsake ? Why will you not my Christian Council take ? Why will you sin and slight the Means of Grace ; Return , return , while thou hast Time and Space . SON . Father , should I your lawful Will obey . And quite forsake my Friends , what would they say ; Not one of them but will me scoff I'm sure , For serious Men they never could endure . Conscience begins to call me by Degrees , Then were I not in Danger to displease My jovial Friends , I would religious grow , But they would count me this and that I know . FATHER . My Son , let lewd Company say their worst , Be thou religious upright , true and just ; Thou shalt be crown'd with Glory for the same , While those that slight thee , may be crown'd with Shame . Pass through the Vale of low Humility , And righteous Men shall thy Companions be ; Whose Patience , like a Golden Shield , shall screen , Thy Soul , my Son , from Satan's hateful Spleen . Frequent the Church , and put away thy Sins , Keep close to God , who is the best of Friends : He'll be thy Hope , thy Strength , and Comfort then , If so , what needest thou fear the Sons of Men . But still you slight your God and hug your Pride , If without Grace thou canst be satisfy'd ; If to the House of Prayer you will not go , His love will turn to Wrath and endless Wo. SON . Father my Eyes are opened , and I see , Destruction ready to be pois'd on me , With more than common Grief I am oppressed , Where shall I fly to find a Place of Rest ? If to my Wealth , alas ! what Comfort's there ? If to my Pride , that cannot case my Care : If , lastly to my Tavern Friends I fly , They can't help me , they've sinn'd as well as I . No Hope I have , but in my God alone , Then on my bent Knees before his Throne , Of Grace and Mercy will I weep and cry : Hoping he will vouchsafe to cast and Eye , Of Pity on a Sinner in Distress ; His Laws henceforth I never will transgress : But make them my continual Rule and Guide , That through his Grace I may be glorified . TEMPTER . I stand amaz'd to see you weeping here , Your zealous Father has been too severe ; But mind him not , cheer up thy Heart with Wine , Whene'er he die , all that he has is thine . YOUTH . I neither stand in need of Wine nor Wealth , It is my precious Soul's eternal Health , Which I am seeking ; Temper don't intrude , Disturb me not in this my Solitude . TEMPTER . Disturb thee ! no , I come , I come in Love , And would not have thee aim at Things above Thy Understanding ; cast that Book aside , And with thy jovial Friends be satisfy'd . There's Joy and Mirth , fit for thy blooming Years . Here's nought but sobs , with bitter Sighs and Tears : Cheer up my Darling , and thy Joys renew , Let others weep that has more Cause then you . YOUTH . Had ever Sinner greater Cause than I ? Alas ! there does weighty Burden lie Upon my wounded tender Conscience here , Undone I am , if God should prove severe . TEMPTER . What a Strange Feud and Passion art thou in ? There's many Thousands worse than thou has been For Wickedness , I'll make it well appear , Who ne'er so much as shed one single Tear . You never dipped your Hands in Infant's Blood , You ne'er laid Cities in a recking Flood ; These are the Sins which do for Vengeance call , But as for thine they're few or none at all . Perhaps some Times at Cards , or Dice you play ; And now and then upon the Sabbath day You take a Glass or Bottle with your Friends , What if you do , these are but slender Sins , YOUTH . How can you these deceitful words express , what is the dreadful since of Drunkenness , And the Profanation of the Sabbath-day , Of such a small Account with you , I pray ? TEMPTER , I charge you in the blessed Name , Of our great God , to go from whence you came , I've set my Hand unto this Plough this Day , And live or die I'll not be drawn away . SATAN . What do you slight my Love and Kindness then If so perhaps , I'll move the Sons of Men To persecute thee even unto Death . Youth . ] I fear thee not , Life's but a Blast of Breath . YOUTH . Let wicked Men and Devil's do their worst , I have a God in whom I put my Trust ; Who can and will defend me evermore , While on my Knees I do his Aid implore . When Satan found he could not make him yield , With Rage and Fury straight he quits the Field ; while this Youth through Faith and Patience run , To finish the great work he had begun . Farewell , farewell false Friends , quoth he , adieu ! I have no Pleasure or Delight in you ; The Grace of God is more to me he cry'd , Then all the Riches in the world beside . Blessed be God that ever I was reprov'd , Blessed be my Father who in Kindness mov'd His stubborn Son through Force of Argument ; For this has brought me early to repent . This is a GIFT for Parents far and near , Present it to their Sons and Daughters dear ; That by this Youth they may a Pattern take , And for the Love of God their Sins forsake . FINIS . THE PARENTS PIOUS GIFT ; Or a Choice PRESENT for CHILDREN . Set forth in a DIALOGUE between a Religious FATHER and and Extravagant Son. Containing a Dispute about bad Company , or evil Communication , Pride , Drunkenness , riotous Living , and all the Vanities of a vicious Course of Life : for which the young Man earnestly con - tended , till by the Grace of GOD , and the Endeavours of his religious Father , he was brought from the Danger of Death and Destruction to the Hope of Life and Immortality . Concluding with the young Man's Christian Courage and Conquest over the Tempter , who came to disburb him in his private Closet when in Tears and Repenting : It being and excellent Pattern for all young Persons to set before them in these present sinful Times . FATHER . TELL me sweet Son , what you intend to do ? This vicious Course of Life will bring you to Destruction , if you venture to proceed . Therefore return , return , my Son , with Speed . SON . What need you thus concern yourself with me , Resolv'd I am to take my Liberty ; Why should I not since other Gallants do ? The World methinks is pleasant to my view . FATHER . Those pleasant Joys but for a Moment last , And when that Golden Dream is gone and passed , The sting of Conscience then brings up the Rear , Consider this , my Son , and stand in Fear . SON . What should I fear that has this World at will , Beside my Fellow boon Companions still Delight themselves in Mirth and Jovialty , Behold , they feast , dance , drink , and why not I ? FATHER . If wilful Men will wilfully run on , And break through all the Laws of God and Man ; It is no Christian Argument that you , For Frindship's Sake should sin , and perish too . SON . Perhaps , I feast as other Gallants do , Perhaps with Wine I pass my Time away ; With such Delights my Senses shall be coy'd , Why were they sent if not to be enjoy'd ; FATHER . My Son , these Creatures are as Blessings sent , Purely for Man's refreshing Nourishment ? But if in any wise they are abus'd , How can you think the since can be excus'd . Thy lawless Mirth disturbs my quiet Rest , My aged Heart lies bleeding in my Breast , To see the sad Destruction of my Son , Why will you thus to dismal Ruin run ? Why will you not bad Company forsake ? Why will you not my Christian Council take ? Why will you sin and slight the Means of Grace ; Return , return , while thou hast Time and Space . SON . Father , should I your lawful Will obey . And quite forsake my Friends , what would they say ; Not one of them but will me scoff I'm sure , For serious Men they never could endure . Conscience begins to call me by Degrees , Then were I not in Danger to displease My jovial Friends , I would religious grow , But they would count me this and that I know . FATHER . My Son , let lewd Company say their worst , Be thou religious upright , true and just ; Thou shalt be crown'd with Glory for the same , While those that slight thee , may be crown'd with Shame . Pass through the Vale of low Humility , And righteous Men shall thy Companions be ; Whose Patience , like a Golden Shield , shall screen , Thy Soul , my Son , from Satan's hateful Spleen . Frequent the Church , and put away thy Sins , Keep close to God , who is the best of Friends : He'll be thy Hope , thy Strength , and Comfort then , If so , what needest thou fear the Sons of Men . But still you slight your God and hug your Pride , If without Grace thou canst be satisfy'd ; If to the House of Prayer you will not go , His love will turn to Wrath and endless Wo. SON . Father my Eyes are opened , and I see , Destruction ready to be pois'd on me , With more than common Grief I am oppressed , Where shall I fly to find a Place of Rest ? If to my Wealth , alas ! what Comfort's there ? If to my Pride , that cannot case my Care : If , lastly to my Tavern Friends I fly , They can't help me , they've sinn'd as well as I . No Hope I have , but in my God alone , Then on my bent Knees before his Throne , Of Grace and Mercy will I weep and cry : Hoping he will vouchsafe to cast and Eye , Of Pity on a Sinner in Distress ; His Laws henceforth I never will transgress : But make them my continual Rule and Guide , That through his Grace I may be glorified . TEMPTER . I stand amaz'd to see you weeping here , Your zealous Father has been too severe ; But mind him not , cheer up thy Heart with Wine , Whene'er he die , all that he has is thine . YOUTH . I neither stand in need of Wine nor Wealth , It is my precious Soul's eternal Health , Which I am seeking ; Temper don't intrude , Disturb me not in this my Solitude . TEMPTER . Disturb thee ! no , I come , I come in Love , And would not have thee aim at Things above Thy Understanding ; cast that Book aside , And with thy jovial Friends be satisfy'd . There's Joy and Mirth , fit for thy blooming Years . Here's nought but sobs , with bitter Sighs and Tears : Cheer up my Darling , and thy Joys renew , Let others weep that has more Cause then you . YOUTH . Had ever Sinner greater Cause than I ? Alas ! there does weighty Burden lie Upon my wounded tender Conscience here , Undone I am , if God should prove severe . TEMPTER . What a Strange Feud and Passion art thou in ? There's many Thousands worse than thou has been For Wickedness , I'll make it well appear , Who ne'er so much as shed one single Tear . You never dipped your Hands in Infant's Blood , You ne'er laid Cities in a recking Flood ; These are the Sins which do for Vengeance call , But as for thine they're few or none at all . Perhaps some Times at Cards , or Dice you play ; And now and then upon the Sabbath day You take a Glass or Bottle with your Friends , What if you do , these are but slender Sins , YOUTH . How can you these deceitful words express , what is the dreadful since of Drunkenness , And the Profanation of the Sabbath-day , Of such a small Account with you , I pray ? TEMPTER , I charge you in the blessed Name , Of our great God , to go from whence you came , I've set my Hand unto this Plough this Day , And live or die I'll not be drawn away . SATAN . What do you slight my Love and Kindness then If so perhaps , I'll move the Sons of Men To persecute thee even unto Death . Youth . ] I fear thee not , Life's but a Blast of Breath . YOUTH . Let wicked Men and Devil's do their worst , I have a God in whom I put my Trust ; Who can and will defend me evermore , While on my Knees I do his Aid implore . When Satan found he could not make him yield , With Rage and Fury straight he quits the Field ; while this Youth through Faith and Patience run , To finish the great work he had begun . Farewell , farewell false Friends , quoth he , adieu ! I have no Pleasure or Delight in you ; The Grace of God is more to me he cry'd , Then all the Riches in the world beside . Blessed be God that ever I was reprov'd , Blessed be my Father who in Kindness mov'd His stubborn Son through Force of Argument ; For this has brought me early to repent . This is a GIFT for Parents far and near , Present it to their Sons and Daughters dear ; That by this Youth they may a Pattern take , And for the Love of God their Sins forsake . FINIS . 