The Dead MAN's Song : Whose Dwelling was near Basing-Hall Street , in LONDON . Tune of , Flying Fame . Soar sick , dear Friends , long time I was , and weakly laid in Bed , And for five Hours in all Men's sighed , at length I lay as dead : The Bell rung out , my Friends came in , and I Key cold was found . Then was my Carcase brought from Bed , and laid upon the Ground : My loving Wife did weep full soar , my Children loud did cry , My Friends did mourn , yet this they said , All Flesh is born to Die . My Winding-sheet prepared was , my Grave was also made , And for five Hours in all Men's sighed , in this same case I laid . During which time my Soul did see such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would Banish all delights : Yet since the Lord restor'd my Life , which from my Body fled , I will declare the sighed I saw , the time that I was Dead . Me thought upon a lovely Green , where pleasant Flowers sprung , I took my way , whereas I thought the Muses sweetly sung ; The Grass was sweet , Trees was fair and lovely to behold , And full of Fruit was every Twig , which shin'd like glistering Gold . My cheerful heart desired much , to taste the Fruit so fair , But as I reached a fair young Man , to me did make repair . Touch not , said he , 'tis none of thine , but turn and walk with me , And see thou mark each several thing , which I shall show to thee . I wondered greatly at his Words , yet went with him away , Till on a gallant goodly Bank , with him he bid me stay : With Branches then of Lilies white , mine Eyes there wiped he , When this was done , he bade me look : what I far off could see , I looked up , and lo at last , I did a City see , So fair a thing did never Man behold with Mortal Eye : Of Diamonds , Pearls and Precious Stones , it seems the walls were made : The Houses all with beaten Gold , were til'd and overlaid . More brighter than the Mornsng Sun , the Light thereof did show , And every Creature in the same , like crown'd Kings did go : The Fields about the City fair , were all with Roses set , Gilliflowers and Carnations fair , whom Canker could not fret . And from the Fields there did proceed , a sweet and pleasant smell That ever living Creature felt , the Scent did so excel : Beside such sweet and pleasant mirth , did from the City found , That I therewith was ravished , my Joy did so abound . With music , mirth and melody , Princes did there embrace , But in my heart I long'd to be within that blessed Place : The more I gaz'd , the more I might , the sighed pleas'd me so well , For what I saw in every thing , my Tongue no ways can tell Then of the Man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings did dwell , in joy and melody . Quoth he , that blessed Place is Heaven , where yet thou canst not rest ; And those that do like Princes go , are those whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bade me view , and mark as much , what things were to be 'spy'd : With that I saw a Coalblack Den , all tan'd with soot and smoke , Where stinking Brimstone burning was , which made me like to choke ; And ugly Creature there I saw , whose Face with Knives was slash'd , And in a Cauldron of Poison'd filth , his ugly Corpse were wash'd . About his Neck were sundry stuffs , that flam'd on every side , I ask'd , and lo the Young Man said , That he was damn'd for Pride . Another sort there did I see , whose Bowels Vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both Yell and Roar . A Spotted Person by each one , stood knawing on their Hearts , And this was Conscience I was told , which Plagu'd their inward Parts : They were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their Place , A sort still throwing burning Fire , which fell against their Face : And Ladles full of melted Led were poured down their Throats , And these were set , it seem'd to me , in midst of burning Boats : The foremost of the Company , was Judas , I was told , who had for filthy Lucre's sake , his Lord and Master sold . For Covetousness he was Condemn'd , so it was told to me . And there me thought another Rout of Hellhounds I did see : Their Faces seem'd flat in my sighed , yet all their Bones were bore , And Dishes full of crawling Toads were made their finest fair : From Arms , from Hands , from Thighs , from Feet , with Redhot Pincers then , The flesh was pluck'd even from the bone of those vile Gluttonous Men : On Coalblack Beds and other sort , in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry : With Brimstone fierce their Pillows eke , whereon their Heads was laid , And Friends with glowing whips of fire their Lecherous flesh of flayed . Then did I see another come , stabb'd in with Daggers thick , And filthy Fiends with fiery Darts , their Hearts did wound and prick : And mighty bowls of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink , And these Men were for Murder plagu'd , from which they could not shrink . I saw when they were gone away , the Swearer and the Liar , And they were hung up by the Tongue , over a flaming fire . From Eyes , from Ears , from Navel and Nose and from their lower Parts , The blood me thought did gushing run , and clogged like Men's Hearts : I asked why that punishment , was now on Swearers laid , Because , quoth he , wounds heart and blood , were all the Oaths they made ; And there withal from ugly Hell , such grievous Cries I herd , As though some greater grief and care , had vexed them afterwards . So that my Soul was soar afraid , such Terror on me fell ; Away then went this Young Man quite and bade me not farewell . Wherefore unto my Body straight , my Spirit returned again , And lively blood did afterwards stretch forth in every Vein . My closed Eyes I opened , and raised from my swoon , I wondered much to see my self , so laid upon the Ground ; Which when my Neighbours did behold , great fear upon them fell , To whom soon after I did tell , the News from Heaven and Hell . The Dead MAN's Song : Whose Dwelling was near Basing-Hall Street , in LONDON . Tune of , Flying Fame . Soar sick , dear Friends , long time I was , and weakly laid in Bed , And for five Hours in all Men's sighed , at length I lay as dead : The Bell rung out , my Friends came in , and I Key cold was found . Then was my Carcase brought from Bed , and laid upon the Ground : My loving Wife did weep full soar , my Children loud did cry , My Friends did mourn , yet this they said , All Flesh is born to Die . My Winding-sheet prepared was , my Grave was also made , And for five Hours in all Men's sighed , in this same case I laid . During which time my Soul did see such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would Banish all delights : Yet since the Lord restor'd my Life , which from my Body fled , I will declare the sighed I saw , the time that I was Dead . Me thought upon a lovely Green , where pleasant Flowers sprung , I took my way , whereas I thought the Muses sweetly sung ; The Grass was sweet , Trees was fair and lovely to behold , And full of Fruit was every Twig , which shin'd like glistering Gold . My cheerful heart desired much , to taste the Fruit so fair , But as I reached a fair young Man , to me did make repair . Touch not , said he , 'tis none of thine , but turn and walk with me , And see thou mark each several thing , which I shall show to thee . I wondered greatly at his Words , yet went with him away , Till on a gallant goodly Bank , with him he bid me stay : With Branches then of Lilies white , mine Eyes there wiped he , When this was done , he bade me look : what I far off could see , I looked up , and lo at last , I did a City see , So fair a thing did never Man behold with Mortal Eye : Of Diamonds , Pearls and Precious Stones , it seems the walls were made : The Houses all with beaten Gold , were til'd and overlaid . More brighter than the Mornsng Sun , the Light thereof did show , And every Creature in the same , like crown'd Kings did go : The Fields about the City fair , were all with Roses set , Gilliflowers and Carnations fair , whom Canker could not fret . And from the Fields there did proceed , a sweet and pleasant smell That ever living Creature felt , the Scent did so excel : Beside such sweet and pleasant mirth , did from the City found , That I therewith was ravished , my Joy did so abound . With music , mirth and melody , Princes did there embrace , But in my heart I long'd to be within that blessed Place : The more I gaz'd , the more I might , the sighed pleas'd me so well , For what I saw in every thing , my Tongue no ways can tell Then of the Man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings did dwell , in joy and melody . Quoth he , that blessed Place is Heaven , where yet thou canst not rest ; And those that do like Princes go , are those whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bade me view , and mark as much , what things were to be 'spy'd : With that I saw a Coalblack Den , all tan'd with soot and smoke , Where stinking Brimstone burning was , which made me like to choke ; And ugly Creature there I saw , whose Face with Knives was slash'd , And in a Cauldron of Poison'd filth , his ugly Corpse were wash'd . About his Neck were sundry stuffs , that flam'd on every side , I ask'd , and lo the Young Man said , That he was damn'd for Pride . Another sort there did I see , whose Bowels Vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both Yell and Roar . A Spotted Person by each one , stood knawing on their Hearts , And this was Conscience I was told , which Plagu'd their inward Parts : They were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their Place , A sort still throwing burning Fire , which fell against their Face : And Ladles full of melted Led were poured down their Throats , And these were set , it seem'd to me , in midst of burning Boats : The foremost of the Company , was Judas , I was told , who had for filthy Lucre's sake , his Lord and Master sold . For Covetousness he was Condemn'd , so it was told to me . And there me thought another Rout of Hellhounds I did see : Their Faces seem'd flat in my sighed , yet all their Bones were bore , And Dishes full of crawling Toads were made their finest fair : From Arms , from Hands , from Thighs , from Feet , with Redhot Pincers then , The flesh was pluck'd even from the bone of those vile Gluttonous Men : On Coalblack Beds and other sort , in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry : With Brimstone fierce their Pillows eke , whereon their Heads was laid , And Friends with glowing whips of fire their Lecherous flesh of flayed . Then did I see another come , stabb'd in with Daggers thick , And filthy Fiends with fiery Darts , their Hearts did wound and prick : And mighty bowls of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink , And these Men were for Murder plagu'd , from which they could not shrink . I saw when they were gone away , the Swearer and the Liar , And they were hung up by the Tongue , over a flaming fire . From Eyes , from Ears , from Navel and Nose and from their lower Parts , The blood me thought did gushing run , and clogged like Men's Hearts : I asked why that punishment , was now on Swearers laid , Because , quoth he , wounds heart and blood , were all the Oaths they made ; And there withal from ugly Hell , such grievous Cries I herd , As though some greater grief and care , had vexed them afterwards . So that my Soul was soar afraid , such Terror on me fell ; Away then went this Young Man quite and bade me not farewell . Wherefore unto my Body straight , my Spirit returned again , And lively blood did afterwards stretch forth in every Vein . My closed Eyes I opened , and raised from my swoon , I wondered much to see my self , so laid upon the Ground ; Which when my Neighbours did behold , great fear upon them fell , To whom soon after I did tell , the News from Heaven and Hell . 