Truelove Requited : Or , The Bailiffs daughter of Islington . The youngman's friends the maid did scorn , 'Cause she was poor and left forlorn , They sent the Esquire to London fair , To be and Apprentice seven-year , And when he out on's time was come , He met his love a going home , And then to end all farther strife , He took the maid to be his wife . To a North Country Tune . Or , I have a good old mother at home . THere was a youth , and a well belov'd youth And he was a Esquires Son , He loved the Bailiffs daughter dear that lived in Islington . She was coy and she would not believe , that he did love her so ; No , nor at any time she would any countenance to him show , But when his friends did understand his found and foolish mind , They sent him up to fair London a Apprentice for to bind . And when he had been seven long years and his Love he had not seen , Many a tear have I shed for her sake , when she little thought of me . ALl the Maids of Islington went forth to sport and play ; All but the Bailiffs Daughter dear , she secretly stole away . She put off her gown of grey , and put on puggish attire : She's up to fair London gone , her true-Love to require . As she went along the Road , the weather being hight and dry There was she aware of her truelove , at length came riding by . She stepped to him as read as any Rose , and took him by the Bridal Ring ; I pray you kind sir give me one penny , to ease my weary limb . I prithee ( sweetheart ) canst thou tell me : where that thou was born ? At Islington kind sir , said she , where I have had many a scorn . I prithee sweetheart canst thou tell me whither thou dost know The Bailiffs daughter of Islington ? she's dead sir long ago . Then will I fell my goodly Steed , my Saddle and my Bow ; I will into some far Country , where no man does me know . O stay , Oh stay , thou well belov'd youth ; she's alive , she is not dead , Here she stands by thy side , and is ready to be thy Bride . O farewell grief , and welcome joy ten thousand times and more : For now I have seen my own True-Love , that I thought I should have seen no more . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . Truelove Requited : Or , The Bailiffs daughter of Islington . The youngman's friends the maid did scorn , 'Cause she was poor and left forlorn , They sent the Esquire to London fair , To be and Apprentice seven-year , And when he out on's time was come , He met his love a going home , And then to end all farther strife , He took the maid to be his wife . To a North Country Tune . Or , I have a good old mother at home . THere was a youth , and a well belov'd youth And he was a Esquires Son , He loved the Bailiffs daughter dear that lived in Islington . She was coy and she would not believe , that he did love her so ; No , nor at any time she would any countenance to him show , But when his friends did understand his found and foolish mind , They sent him up to fair London a Apprentice for to bind . And when he had been seven long years and his Love he had not seen , Many a tear have I shed for her sake , when she little thought of me . ALl the Maids of Islington went forth to sport and play ; All but the Bailiffs Daughter dear , she secretly stole away . She put off her gown of grey , and put on puggish attire : She's up to fair London gone , her true-Love to require . As she went along the Road , the weather being hight and dry There was she aware of her truelove , at length came riding by . She stepped to him as read as any Rose , and took him by the Bridal Ring ; I pray you kind sir give me one penny , to ease my weary limb . I prithee ( sweetheart ) canst thou tell me : where that thou was born ? At Islington kind sir , said she , where I have had many a scorn . I prithee sweetheart canst thou tell me whither thou dost know The Bailiffs daughter of Islington ? she's dead sir long ago . Then will I fell my goodly Steed , my Saddle and my Bow ; I will into some far Country , where no man does me know . O stay , Oh stay , thou well belov'd youth ; she's alive , she is not dead , Here she stands by thy side , and is ready to be thy Bride . O farewell grief , and welcome joy ten thousand times and more : For now I have seen my own True-Love , that I thought I should have seen no more . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . 