The Maids Unhappiness OR The Youngmen's Unconstancy . When Maidens seem for to be kind , Youngmen do from them fly : But if the Maidens coy they find Then they for love can die . Tune of Philander . ALas poor Female Sex ! Nature your ruin meant ; In vain 'tis to perplex , or still for to lament . For youngmen they prove so unkind , in these our latter days , They'l swear they'l love , And true will prove , Yet cheat you twenty ways . First they'l pretend to dote , by power of charming eyes , Which if you well do note , you'l find them fill'd with lies . Oh! what a prating they will keep , and load you with their praise , Which if you mind , 'Twill make you weep , For they'l cheat you twenty ways . Great Portions are the things at which they chiefly aim , They'l cry that Gold hath wings , and its dislike proclaim . But rich or poor they will pretend , to Crown their loves with Baize , But yet deceive you In the end , And cheat you twenty ways . If you but kind do seem , you'e found they'l quickly say , Not worthy of esteem , and quickly keep away , If you seem coy they'l count you proud , and loftiest of these days , Do what you will I'me sure they still Will cheat you twenty ways . If you go fine you'r proud , unless your Portion's great , If poor in Clothes , they'l flout , poor Girls they say they hate . And he that ne'r did see five pound of his own in all his days , With vows and Odaths Will you confound , And cheat you twenty ways . The Fair Maidens Resolutions . COme , come be of good cheer , let's merry be , and wise , For youngmen they will leer , when Maidens them denies . When with a prating Jack you meet , ne'r mind him what he says , Though he pretends His love is great , He cares for no delays . Then they will be as sweet , and bend unto your bow , With Youngsters you may meet , if you but serve them so . O how they'l cringe at your command , and you obey always , If once they find You are inclin'd To hold them in delays . Just as you us'd to sighs , so they will panting fit , You weary were of life , now they'r bereft of wit . And as you us'd most secretly to spend your youthful days , So you will spy Them sighing lie , But hold them in delays . I by experience prov'd what here I do protest , By one that said he lov'd , but I thought 'twas in jest . I at a distance kept him still . and gain'd my self great praise ; He had rather die He still did cry , Than languish in delays . Could he but see my smile , His heart to heaven did fly , If I but frown [ ' ] worser a while then was he like to die . Thus did I play both fast and lose , as the Old Proverb says , But now I've god Him in my Arms , By seeming long delays . Printed for J. Wright , J Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . The Maids Unhappiness OR The Youngmen's Unconstancy . When Maidens seem for to be kind , Youngmen do from them fly : But if the Maidens coy they find Then they for love can die . Tune of Philander . ALas poor Female Sex ! Nature your ruin meant ; In vain 'tis to perplex , or still for to lament . For youngmen they prove so unkind , in these our latter days , They'l swear they'l love , And true will prove , Yet cheat you twenty ways . First they'l pretend to dote , by power of charming eyes , Which if you well do note , you'l find them fill'd with lies . Oh! what a prating they will keep , and load you with their praise , Which if you mind , 'Twill make you weep , For they'l cheat you twenty ways . Great Portions are the things at which they chiefly aim , They'l cry that Gold hath wings , and its dislike proclaim . But rich or poor they will pretend , to Crown their loves with Baize , But yet deceive you In the end , And cheat you twenty ways . If you but kind do seem , you'e found they'l quickly say , Not worthy of esteem , and quickly keep away , If you seem coy they'l count you proud , and loftiest of these days , Do what you will I'me sure they still Will cheat you twenty ways . If you go fine you'r proud , unless your Portion's great , If poor in Clothes , they'l flout , poor Girls they say they hate . And he that ne'r did see five pound of his own in all his days , With vows and Odaths Will you confound , And cheat you twenty ways . The Fair Maidens Resolutions . COme , come be of good cheer , let's merry be , and wise , For youngmen they will leer , when Maidens them denies . When with a prating Jack you meet , ne'r mind him what he says , Though he pretends His love is great , He cares for no delays . Then they will be as sweet , and bend unto your bow , With Youngsters you may meet , if you but serve them so . O how they'l cringe at your command , and you obey always , If once they find You are inclin'd To hold them in delays . Just as you us'd to sighs , so they will panting fit , You weary were of life , now they'r bereft of wit . And as you us'd most secretly to spend your youthful days , So you will spy Them sighing lie , But hold them in delays . I by experience prov'd what here I do protest , By one that said he lov'd , but I thought 'twas in jest . I at a distance kept him still . and gain'd my self great praise ; He had rather die He still did cry , Than languish in delays . Could he but see my smile , His heart to heaven did fly , If I but frown [ ' ] worser a while then was he like to die . Thus did I play both fast and lose , as the Old Proverb says , But now I've god Him in my Arms , By seeming long delays . Printed for J. Wright , J Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 