TYRANNIC LOVE Or , The mournful Lovers complaint against his cruel Mistress . Being the passion of Phaon for the Nymph Morena . O boundless Love , where hast thou Phaon driven , What Sea is this that tosses up to Heaven , And down to Hell ev'n in a Moments space , 'Tis Love and Lovers find no resting place , That is such Lovers that do Love like him Who through a flood of tears to her wou'd swim , But she disdainful , proud , denies his love , For which to her may all men cruel prove . Tune of Dianas a Nymph , etc I Languish all night , and I sighs all the day For a Mistress that coily does turn her away , Yet she's enslav'd me do all what I will , And though she be cruel I must love her still , Her eyes like sharp Lances late gave me a wound , Yet peace I do offer , and feign wou'd compound , But she flies , but she flies , and no longer will stay , Though I languish all night and sighs all the day . At her Window I've waited in winter's sharp , cold , My passion unto her , that I might unfold , But in vain was my kindness for she still deny'd , And when I look [ ' ] worser on her strait turned aside , And for my kindness still scorn did return , Till fry'd with a Favour of love I did burn : But she flies , but she flies , etc Her eyes like two Suns they do scorch me severe , Nor can I be shaded from them any where , But with their Beams they still do consume And dry up the fountains of life in their bloom ; In the Groves & the Woods though I mournfully sing , She regards not moan my dread suffering , But she flies , but she flies , and no longer will stay , Though I languish all night , and sighs all the day . On the beds of fresh flowers if I seek for ease , Or with sweet Music my senses wou'd please , Methinks s [ h ] e does frown , and my joys are all gone , All my pleasures to torment my Love then does turn If in cool fountains Loves flames I wou'd slake , Then she'd like Diana appear in the Lake , But she flies , but she flies , etc Her face is so charming , so bright and so fair , That nothing that's mortal can with her compare , Which by reflection does dazzle my sighed , And puts all my reason at first view to flight , So that I stand speechless and feign would declare My passion , and with low submission prepare , But she flies , but she flies , and no longer will stay , Though I languish all night and sighs all the day . the cruel powers for what were she made , If love and obedience can never persuade Her to be mild and cruel no more To her poor Captive , that still must adore , Though she kill him with scorn yet he still Must love fair Morena do he what he will , But she flies , but she flies , etc If't be pleasure to love in such torments as these , Where the wretch'd lover can find no ease , How happy are they that from love can refrain , Since in it there's nothing but trouble and pain , But my fate is such that do all what I can Love does o'r pow'r me and me quite unman , But she flies , but she flies , etc 'Tis for the Derision I lately have shown , To mournful sad Lovers before Love was known To this breast , so served Cupid Apollo , when he Pursu'd the fair Daphe till turn'd to a Tree , But she fled all bashful a virgin , but now My mistress is cruel and wont love allow , For she flies , for she flies , etc Tho each Letter I write her I seal with my Tears , Yet she proves cruel and laughs at my cares , While pensive and sad I do fit all alone , And unto the Seas and the Winds make my moan , Who pity me more than my mistress will do , And will not shun my sighs when they pursue , But she flies , but she flies , etc Then let all those who have scap'd Cupids Net , Which he in the eyes of fair females does set , To Captivate Princes and Peasants beware lest with me they complain when took in the snare , Who though she enslaves me do all what I will , And though she prove cruel yet must love her still . But she flies , but she flies , and no longer will stay , Though I languish all night and sighs all the day . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere , J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . TYRANNIC LOVE Or , The mournful Lovers complaint against his cruel Mistress . Being the passion of Phaon for the Nymph Morena . O boundless Love , where hast thou Phaon driven , What Sea is this that tosses up to Heaven , And down to Hell ev'n in a Moments space , 'Tis Love and Lovers find no resting place , That is such Lovers that do Love like him Who through a flood of tears to her wou'd swim , But she disdainful , proud , denies his love , For which to her may all men cruel prove . Tune of Dianas a Nymph , etc I Languish all night , and I sighs all the day For a Mistress that coily does turn her away , Yet she's enslav'd me do all what I will , And though she be cruel I must love her still , Her eyes like sharp Lances late gave me a wound , Yet peace I do offer , and feign wou'd compound , But she flies , but she flies , and no longer will stay , Though I languish all night and sighs all the day . At her Window I've waited in winter's sharp , cold , My passion unto her , that I might unfold , But in vain was my kindness for she still deny'd , And when I look [ ' ] worser on her strait turned aside , And for my kindness still scorn did return , Till fry'd with a Favour of love I did burn : But she flies , but she flies , etc Her eyes like two Suns they do scorch me severe , Nor can I be shaded from them any where , But with their Beams they still do consume And dry up the fountains of life in their bloom ; In the Groves & the Woods though I mournfully sing , She regards not moan my dread suffering , But she flies , but she flies , and no longer will stay , Though I languish all night , and sighs all the day . On the beds of fresh flowers if I seek for ease , Or with sweet Music my senses wou'd please , Methinks s [ h ] e does frown , and my joys are all gone , All my pleasures to torment my Love then does turn If in cool fountains Loves flames I wou'd slake , Then she'd like Diana appear in the Lake , But she flies , but she flies , etc Her face is so charming , so bright and so fair , That nothing that's mortal can with her compare , Which by reflection does dazzle my sighed , And puts all my reason at first view to flight , So that I stand speechless and feign would declare My passion , and with low submission prepare , But she flies , but she flies , and no longer will stay , Though I languish all night and sighs all the day . the cruel powers for what were she made , If love and obedience can never persuade Her to be mild and cruel no more To her poor Captive , that still must adore , Though she kill him with scorn yet he still Must love fair Morena do he what he will , But she flies , but she flies , etc If't be pleasure to love in such torments as these , Where the wretch'd lover can find no ease , How happy are they that from love can refrain , Since in it there's nothing but trouble and pain , But my fate is such that do all what I can Love does o'r pow'r me and me quite unman , But she flies , but she flies , etc 'Tis for the Derision I lately have shown , To mournful sad Lovers before Love was known To this breast , so served Cupid Apollo , when he Pursu'd the fair Daphe till turn'd to a Tree , But she fled all bashful a virgin , but now My mistress is cruel and wont love allow , For she flies , for she flies , etc Tho each Letter I write her I seal with my Tears , Yet she proves cruel and laughs at my cares , While pensive and sad I do fit all alone , And unto the Seas and the Winds make my moan , Who pity me more than my mistress will do , And will not shun my sighs when they pursue , But she flies , but she flies , etc Then let all those who have scap'd Cupids Net , Which he in the eyes of fair females does set , To Captivate Princes and Peasants beware lest with me they complain when took in the snare , Who though she enslaves me do all what I will , And though she prove cruel yet must love her still . But she flies , but she flies , and no longer will stay , Though I languish all night and sighs all the day . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere , J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 