The Lovesick Maid of Portsmouth See how by Heavens great Providence , these Lovers did Unite , For she lov'd him , and he lov'd her , and did themseves deligt . At first he seem'd to deny , at last he seem'd to bow , and gratified her faithful Love , by keeping true Loves Vow . To the Tune of , Genny Gin . Entered according to Order : THere is a lad in our Town , a proper handsome Youth , He is a Carpenter by trade , I tell you but the truth . There is a lass in our Town , to him a wooing came , Give ear and listen unto me , and I'le declare her name , She is a proper handsome lass , complete in every part , She told this youngman such fair Tales , she thought to win his heart , She came to him both night and day , as plainly does appear : His name is Richard and she said , she loved uim most dear . Her name is pretty kissing bess , a comely lass but brown , She is as kind a loving lass , as lives in Portsmouth Town : But I have head it often said , of all the Neighbours by , Although she followed him so close , still he did her deny . Maid . [ Ah! why do you hard hearted prove , and never grant me rest ? ] Give me one word of comfort now , to ease my troubled breast , Alas alas 'tis you alone , that can my help procure , 'Tis you your self that made the wound , and none but you can cure . Alas my dearest love she said , you do not know my smart That I endure for your dear sake , ah me 'twill break my heart , 'Tis for your sake good Sir indeed , that I these pains endure , Unless you help me in my need , I cant expect a cure . Man , The thing it is so great he said , that you of me do crave , Then take this for and answer flat . my heart you cannot have : A Carpenters heart it is too small your lofty breasts to fill , You said you'l have forty for a groat , in that you did do ill . [ No more of comfort can I give , I still too near you keep ; ] Goods farthest fetched and dearest bought , may lull your sense to sleep : But since you made so slight of me , i'le be as slight to you , Such scornful and Pragmatic Dams , perchance your selves undone . Sweet heart you know it cannot be , alas I am too young , And to a Marriage state I know , not what thereto belongs , You say a Caulcer needs must be , a favourite in thy breast , But as I am I'le still be free , only my mind is still expressed . Maid . Indeed good Sir it is not so , a Caulcer I defy , And you will quickly break my heart , if you do me deny : Therefore come help me in distress . so strong is my desire . That I do burn in fiery flames , and feel Loves scorching fire . Alas good Sir now will I stay , this seven years for your sake And if you prove but kind to me , my vows I ne'r will break , Let gentle Cupid bend his bow , and with his nimble dart , So penetrate that you may know , the pains of Lovers smart . O never more expect from me , a kind glance from mine eye , I hate blind Cupids cruelty , and must your suit deny : But what of me you seem to crave , [ you never yet shall see ; ] For till I'me laid in my grave , my fancy shall be free . This Damsel then did trembling stand , to hear this young man speak , Alas said she what shall I do , with love my heart will break , And therewithal she wrung her hands , her colour came and went , By which you well may understand , that true loves passion meant . Her Cherry lips that were so read , did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceiv'd . her vitals they did fail : And falling deep into a trance , for half and hours space , This youngman with and aching heart . beheld her lovesiick face . He seeing of this sudden change , his heart began to melt , Full soon the heavy wounding smart , of Cupids Arrows fell This pain he could no more endure , but went to her in haste ; And kindly in his loving arms , this Damosel he imbrac'd . My dear said he content thy self , to end all further strife , As soon as e're my time is out , thou shalt be made my wife : Thus you may see when Providence , a Marriage does decree , That they shall meet in spite of fate , and cannot hindered be . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . The Lovesick Maid of Portsmouth See how by Heavens great Providence , these Lovers did Unite , For she lov'd him , and he lov'd her , and did themseves deligt . At first he seem'd to deny , at last he seem'd to bow , and gratified her faithful Love , by keeping true Loves Vow . To the Tune of , Genny Gin . Entered according to Order : THere is a lad in our Town , a proper handsome Youth , He is a Carpenter by trade , I tell you but the truth . There is a lass in our Town , to him a wooing came , Give ear and listen unto me , and I'le declare her name , She is a proper handsome lass , complete in every part , She told this youngman such fair Tales , she thought to win his heart , She came to him both night and day , as plainly does appear : His name is Richard and she said , she loved uim most dear . Her name is pretty kissing bess , a comely lass but brown , She is as kind a loving lass , as lives in Portsmouth Town : But I have head it often said , of all the Neighbours by , Although she followed him so close , still he did her deny . Maid . [ Ah! why do you hard hearted prove , and never grant me rest ? ] Give me one word of comfort now , to ease my troubled breast , Alas alas 'tis you alone , that can my help procure , 'Tis you your self that made the wound , and none but you can cure . Alas my dearest love she said , you do not know my smart That I endure for your dear sake , ah me 'twill break my heart , 'Tis for your sake good Sir indeed , that I these pains endure , Unless you help me in my need , I cant expect a cure . Man , The thing it is so great he said , that you of me do crave , Then take this for and answer flat . my heart you cannot have : A Carpenters heart it is too small your lofty breasts to fill , You said you'l have forty for a groat , in that you did do ill . [ No more of comfort can I give , I still too near you keep ; ] Goods farthest fetched and dearest bought , may lull your sense to sleep : But since you made so slight of me , i'le be as slight to you , Such scornful and Pragmatic Dams , perchance your selves undone . Sweet heart you know it cannot be , alas I am too young , And to a Marriage state I know , not what thereto belongs , You say a Caulcer needs must be , a favourite in thy breast , But as I am I'le still be free , only my mind is still expressed . Maid . Indeed good Sir it is not so , a Caulcer I defy , And you will quickly break my heart , if you do me deny : Therefore come help me in distress . so strong is my desire . That I do burn in fiery flames , and feel Loves scorching fire . Alas good Sir now will I stay , this seven years for your sake And if you prove but kind to me , my vows I ne'r will break , Let gentle Cupid bend his bow , and with his nimble dart , So penetrate that you may know , the pains of Lovers smart . O never more expect from me , a kind glance from mine eye , I hate blind Cupids cruelty , and must your suit deny : But what of me you seem to crave , [ you never yet shall see ; ] For till I'me laid in my grave , my fancy shall be free . This Damsel then did trembling stand , to hear this young man speak , Alas said she what shall I do , with love my heart will break , And therewithal she wrung her hands , her colour came and went , By which you well may understand , that true loves passion meant . Her Cherry lips that were so read , did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceiv'd . her vitals they did fail : And falling deep into a trance , for half and hours space , This youngman with and aching heart . beheld her lovesiick face . He seeing of this sudden change , his heart began to melt , Full soon the heavy wounding smart , of Cupids Arrows fell This pain he could no more endure , but went to her in haste ; And kindly in his loving arms , this Damosel he imbrac'd . My dear said he content thy self , to end all further strife , As soon as e're my time is out , thou shalt be made my wife : Thus you may see when Providence , a Marriage does decree , That they shall meet in spite of fate , and cannot hindered be . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . The Lovesick Maid of Portsmouth See how by Heavens great Providence , these Lovers did Unite , For she lov'd him , and he lov'd her , and did themseves deligt . At first he seem'd to deny , at last he seem'd to bow , and gratified her faithful Love , by keeping true Loves Vow . To the Tune of , Genny Gin . Entered according to Order : THere is a lad in our Town , a proper handsome Youth , He is a Carpenter by trade , I tell you but the truth . There is a lass in our Town , to him a wooing came , Give ear and listen unto me , and I'le declare her name , She is a proper handsome lass , complete in every part , She told this youngman such fair Tales , she thought to win his heart , She came to him both night and day , as plainly does appear : His name is Richard and she said , she loved uim most dear . Her name is pretty kissing bess , a comely lass but brown , She is as kind a loving lass , as lives in Portsmouth Town : But I have head it often said , of all the Neighbours by , Although she followed him so close , still he did her deny . Maid . [ Ah! why do you hard hearted prove , and never grant me rest ? ] Give me one word of comfort now , to ease my troubled breast , Alas alas 'tis you alone , that can my help procure , 'Tis you your self that made the wound , and none but you can cure . Alas my dearest love she said , you do not know my smart That I endure for your dear sake , ah me 'twill break my heart , 'Tis for your sake good Sir indeed , that I these pains endure , Unless you help me in my need , I cant expect a cure . Man , The thing it is so great he said , that you of me do crave , Then take this for and answer flat . my heart you cannot have : A Carpenters heart it is too small your lofty breasts to fill , You said you'l have forty for a groat , in that you did do ill . [ No more of comfort can I give , I still too near you keep ; ] Goods farthest fetched and dearest bought , may lull your sense to sleep : But since you made so slight of me , i'le be as slight to you , Such scornful and Pragmatic Dams , perchance your selves undone . Sweet heart you know it cannot be , alas I am too young , And to a Marriage state I know , not what thereto belongs , You say a Caulcer needs must be , a favourite in thy breast , But as I am I'le still be free , only my mind is still expressed . Maid . Indeed good Sir it is not so , a Caulcer I defy , And you will quickly break my heart , if you do me deny : Therefore come help me in distress . so strong is my desire . That I do burn in fiery flames , and feel Loves scorching fire . Alas good Sir now will I stay , this seven years for your sake And if you prove but kind to me , my vows I ne'r will break , Let gentle Cupid bend his bow , and with his nimble dart , So penetrate that you may know , the pains of Lovers smart . O never more expect from me , a kind glance from mine eye , I hate blind Cupids cruelty , and must your suit deny : But what of me you seem to crave , [ you never yet shall see ; ] For till I'me laid in my grave , my fancy shall be free . This Damsel then did trembling stand , to hear this young man speak , Alas said she what shall I do , with love my heart will break , And therewithal she wrung her hands , her colour came and went , By which you well may understand , that true loves passion meant . Her Cherry lips that were so read , did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceiv'd . her vitals they did fail : And falling deep into a trance , for half and hours space , This youngman with and aching heart . beheld her lovesiick face . He seeing of this sudden change , his heart began to melt , Full soon the heavy wounding smart , of Cupids Arrows fell This pain he could no more endure , but went to her in haste ; And kindly in his loving arms , this Damosel he imbrac'd . My dear said he content thy self , to end all further strife , As soon as e're my time is out , thou shalt be made my wife : Thus you may see when Providence , a Marriage does decree , That they shall meet in spite of fate , and cannot hindered be . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . The Lovesick Maid of Portsmouth See how by Heavens great Providence , these Lovers did Unite , For she lov'd him , and he lov'd her , and did themseves deligt . At first he seem'd to deny , at last he seem'd to bow , and gratified her faithful Love , by keeping true Loves Vow . To the Tune of , Genny Gin . Entered according to Order : THere is a lad in our Town , a proper handsome Youth , He is a Carpenter by trade , I tell you but the truth . There is a lass in our Town , to him a wooing came , Give ear and listen unto me , and I'le declare her name , She is a proper handsome lass , complete in every part , She told this youngman such fair Tales , she thought to win his heart , She came to him both night and day , as plainly does appear : His name is Richard and she said , she loved uim most dear . Her name is pretty kissing bess , a comely lass but brown , She is as kind a loving lass , as lives in Portsmouth Town : But I have head it often said , of all the Neighbours by , Although she followed him so close , still he did her deny . Maid . [ Ah! why do you hard hearted prove , and never grant me rest ? ] Give me one word of comfort now , to ease my troubled breast , Alas alas 'tis you alone , that can my help procure , 'Tis you your self that made the wound , and none but you can cure . Alas my dearest love she said , you do not know my smart That I endure for your dear sake , ah me 'twill break my heart , 'Tis for your sake good Sir indeed , that I these pains endure , Unless you help me in my need , I cant expect a cure . Man , The thing it is so great he said , that you of me do crave , Then take this for and answer flat . my heart you cannot have : A Carpenters heart it is too small your lofty breasts to fill , You said you'l have forty for a groat , in that you did do ill . [ No more of comfort can I give , I still too near you keep ; ] Goods farthest fetched and dearest bought , may lull your sense to sleep : But since you made so slight of me , i'le be as slight to you , Such scornful and Pragmatic Dams , perchance your selves undone . Sweet heart you know it cannot be , alas I am too young , And to a Marriage state I know , not what thereto belongs , You say a Caulcer needs must be , a favourite in thy breast , But as I am I'le still be free , only my mind is still expressed . Maid . Indeed good Sir it is not so , a Caulcer I defy , And you will quickly break my heart , if you do me deny : Therefore come help me in distress . so strong is my desire . That I do burn in fiery flames , and feel Loves scorching fire . Alas good Sir now will I stay , this seven years for your sake And if you prove but kind to me , my vows I ne'r will break , Let gentle Cupid bend his bow , and with his nimble dart , So penetrate that you may know , the pains of Lovers smart . O never more expect from me , a kind glance from mine eye , I hate blind Cupids cruelty , and must your suit deny : But what of me you seem to crave , [ you never yet shall see ; ] For till I'me laid in my grave , my fancy shall be free . This Damsel then did trembling stand , to hear this young man speak , Alas said she what shall I do , with love my heart will break , And therewithal she wrung her hands , her colour came and went , By which you well may understand , that true loves passion meant . Her Cherry lips that were so read , did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceiv'd . her vitals they did fail : And falling deep into a trance , for half and hours space , This youngman with and aching heart . beheld her lovesiick face . He seeing of this sudden change , his heart began to melt , Full soon the heavy wounding smart , of Cupids Arrows fell This pain he could no more endure , but went to her in haste ; And kindly in his loving arms , this Damosel he imbrac'd . My dear said he content thy self , to end all further strife , As soon as e're my time is out , thou shalt be made my wife : Thus you may see when Providence , a Marriage does decree , That they shall meet in spite of fate , and cannot hindered be . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . 