The Life and Death of George of OXFORD : To a pleasant New Tune , called , Poor Georgy . AS I went over London Bridge all in a misty morning , There did I see one weep and mourn , lamenting for her Georgy , His time it is past , His life it will not last , Alack and alas ! there is no Remedy , Which makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy . George of Oxford is my name , and few there's but have known me , Many a mad prank have I played , but now they've overthrown me . My time is past , etc Oh! then bespoke the Lady Grey , i'le haste me in the morning , And to the Judge i'le make my way , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , His life else it may cost , Alack and alas ! is there no remedy ? It makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy . Go Saddle me my milkwhite Steed , go Saddle me my bonny , That I may to New-Castle speed , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , etc , But when she came the Judge before full low her knee she bent , For Georgy's life she did implore , that she might be befriended . His time may be passed , His life else it may cost , Alack and alas ! is there no Remedy ? It makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy . O rise , o rise , fair Lady Grey , your suit cannot be granted , Content your self , as well you may , for Georgy must be hanged . His time it is passed etc She wept she wailed she rung her hands and ceased not her mourning ; She offer'd Gold she offer'd Lands , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , etc George's Confession . I Have travell'd through the Land , and met with many a man , Sir ; But Knight or Lord , I bid him stand he durst not make and answer . But my thread it is spun , My glass is almost run , Alack and alas ! there is no remedy ; Which makes my heart within me Ready to burst in three , To die like a Dog , ( says poor Georgy . ) The Brittain bold that durst deny his money for to tender , Tho' he were stout as valiant Guy I forc'd him to surrender . But now my thread is spun , etc But when the money I had god , and made him cry pectavi , To bear his charge and pay his shot a Mark or Noble gave I . But my thread it is spun , etc The Ladies when they had me seen would ne'r have been affrighted To take a dance upon the Green with Georgy they delighted But now my thread is spun , etc When I had ended this our wake , and fairly them bespoken , Their rings and jewels would I take to keep them for a Token . But now my thread is spun , etc The hue and cry for George is set , a proper handsome fellow , With Diamond-Eyes as black as jet , and Locks like Gold so yellow . His time it is past , etc Long it was with all their art , e're they could apprehend him , But at the last his valiant heart no longer could defend him . His time it was passed , etc I ne'r stole Horse nor Mare in my life nor Cloven-foot or any , But once six of the Kings white steeds and I sold them to Bohemia . His time it was passed , etc Georgy he went up the hill , and after followed many , Georgy was hanged in silken string , the like was never any . His time it was passed , His life will not last , Alack and alas ! there is no remedy , etc Printed for P. Brooksby in West-smithfield . The Life and Death of George of OXFORD : To a pleasant New Tune , called , Poor Georgy . AS I went over London Bridge all in a misty morning , There did I see one weep and mourn , lamenting for her Georgy , His time it is past , His life it will not last , Alack and alas ! there is no Remedy , Which makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy . George of Oxford is my name , and few there's but have known me , Many a mad prank have I played , but now they've overthrown me . My time is past , etc Oh! then bespoke the Lady Grey , i'le haste me in the morning , And to the Judge i'le make my way , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , His life else it may cost , Alack and alas ! is there no remedy ? It makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy . Go Saddle me my milkwhite Steed , go Saddle me my bonny , That I may to New-Castle speed , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , etc , But when she came the Judge before full low her knee she bent , For Georgy's life she did implore , that she might be befriended . His time may be passed , His life else it may cost , Alack and alas ! is there no Remedy ? It makes the heart within me Ready to burst in three To think on the death of poor Georgy . O rise , o rise , fair Lady Grey , your suit cannot be granted , Content your self , as well you may , for Georgy must be hanged . His time it is passed etc She wept she wailed she rung her hands and ceased not her mourning ; She offer'd Gold she offer'd Lands , to save the life of Georgy . His time it is past , etc George's Confession . I Have travell'd through the Land , and met with many a man , Sir ; But Knight or Lord , I bid him stand he durst not make and answer . But my thread it is spun , My glass is almost run , Alack and alas ! there is no remedy ; Which makes my heart within me Ready to burst in three , To die like a Dog , ( says poor Georgy . ) The Brittain bold that durst deny his money for to tender , Tho' he were stout as valiant Guy I forc'd him to surrender . But now my thread is spun , etc But when the money I had god , and made him cry pectavi , To bear his charge and pay his shot a Mark or Noble gave I . But my thread it is spun , etc The Ladies when they had me seen would ne'r have been affrighted To take a dance upon the Green with Georgy they delighted But now my thread is spun , etc When I had ended this our wake , and fairly them bespoken , Their rings and jewels would I take to keep them for a Token . But now my thread is spun , etc The hue and cry for George is set , a proper handsome fellow , With Diamond-Eyes as black as jet , and Locks like Gold so yellow . His time it is past , etc Long it was with all their art , e're they could apprehend him , But at the last his valiant heart no longer could defend him . His time it was passed , etc I ne'r stole Horse nor Mare in my life nor Cloven-foot or any , But once six of the Kings white steeds and I sold them to Bohemia . His time it was passed , etc Georgy he went up the hill , and after followed many , Georgy was hanged in silken string , the like was never any . His time it was passed , His life will not last , Alack and alas ! there is no remedy , etc Printed for P. Brooksby in West-smithfield . 