A Wondered Prophecy . Declared by Christian James , a Maid of Twenty Years of Age , late Daughter to Daniel James who was born and bred near the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwel , who departed this Life upon the 8th of March . With a true Relation of her Behaviour , both in her Lifetime , and at the Hour of her Death , worthy to be had in perpetual Memory . To the Tune of , In Summer Time , etc THE mighty Lord that rules in Heaven , Strange Wonders does in Englind send , And many Warning hath us given , 'Cause we our Lives should soon amend : But like the misbelieving Jews , So hard of Heart some People be , They think that nothing can be true , But that which their own Eyes did see . Therefore , good People , mark it well , I'll here lay open to your view A Song most wondered and strange , And can approve it to be true : A Damsel did near Padstow , dwell , Within the County of Cornwel fair , Whose Parents had no Child but her , She was her Father's only Heir . To whom came a brave Young Man , Intending to make her a Wife , But never tempting Tongue could make , This Maid to change her Maiden Life : And though her Parents Riches had , And costly Garments her allow'd , In homely Habit she would go , And always hated to be proud . She ne'er was herd to curse or swear , Nor any Word of Anger give , But courteous was in every Thing , To them that did about her live : If she herd any one to swear , Or take God's sacred Name in vain , She told them that they crucify'd , Our Saviour Jesus-Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , And also did relieve the Poor , The Widow and the Fatherless , She every Day fed at the Door : Upon a Time , this Damsel she Fell Sick , and in a deadly Found , She lay for twenty Hours Space , No Life in her could then be found . Her aged Father did lament , Her Mother she shed many a Tear , She wept , she wail'd , she wrung her Hands , For loss of this her Daughter dear : Alas ! alas ! my Child , she said , How dearly have I tender'd thee ; And wilt thou now forsake the World , And leave me in this Misery . I would thy Birth had been my Death , Then never had I seen this Day ; This grievous Moan the Mother made , By her dear Daughter as she lay : At last she did strong Waters fetch , And rub'd her Temples and each Vein , Till at the last the Damsel had , Recover'd Life and Sense again . And being come unto her Speech , With Voice most shrill aloud , she cry'd Oh Mother you have done me wrong , This cannot be by you deny'd ; For I was in the Way to Heaven , Two glorious Angels did me guide , Who gently took me by the Hand . SInging of Psalms and Spiritual Songs , So long as we passed on the Way , Till he which had a Golden Crown , Met us , and caused us to stay : Return , said he , from whence thou cam'st , Thy Mother for thee makes great Moan ; And tell those Things which I declare , Unto thy Neighbours every one . Speak this , quoth he , unto them all , How that the Lord e'er long will send , A grievous Punishment to them , That does him wilfully offend : This is the last Age of the World , Even to the very Sink of since , The Puddle of Iniquity , Which thou long Time hath wallowed in : The Man and Wife live in Discord , The Father envies his own Son , The Rich and Poor , the Old and Young , Do hourly into Mischief run : Extortion and Idolatry , And hateful Pride is now in use , Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile , The People count as no abuse . God's Ministers are set at nought , The Sabbath is prophan'd also , The poor lies starving in the Street , Oppressed with Sorrow , Grief , and Woe : The loathsome since of Drunkenness , And Whoredom does much exceed , He that can do his Neighbour wrong , Does think he Does a godly deed . Now ponder well what I do say , Doom's dreadful Day is nigh at Hand , Fire and Brimstone shall destroy , The Heaven , the Earth , the Sea and Land ; And every Soul before the Lord , A just Account he then shall give , His Conscience shall a Witness be , In what Condition he did live . Then he that had done well shall pass , Forthwith to everlasting Rest , And live among'st those glorious Saints , Which Jesus Christ our Lord hath blessed ; Where Martyrs , Prophets , Patriarchs , Do Hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and Honour be to God , And unto Christ our heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , When they shall hear the Sentence past , Depart you cursed into Hell , Whose Fire for evermore shall las The Sorrows which are here foretold , Will come on you , e'er it be long , Except Repentance truly dwell , In Hearts of all , both Old and Young . Repentance and true watery Eyes , Will help to quench the burning Flame , Which he hath kindled , to consume The wicked World's most rotten Frame : Let not your Buildings all so brave , Turn'd and wasted with God's Ire , Let not your Souls , for whom Christ dy'd , Be burned in Hell's eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophecy . THese Speeches spoke , the Maiden dy'd , And came no more to Life again ; Her Soul , no doubt , is gone to Heaven , With glorious Angels to remain : At her decease , and Harmony Of Music there was herd to found , Which ravish'd all the Standers by , It did with Sweetness so abound . It pierc'd the Earth and Air also , Yet no Man knew from whence it came , But each one said it came from Heaven : And presently upon the same , The Magistrates of that same Parish , Which herd and saw this wonder strange , Desir'd to have it put in Print , 'Cause wicked Men their Ways may change . The Names of the Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her Death-Bed , and herd the Words of the Prophecy which she delivered , were as follows : W. Wates , Curate ; T. Davies , Head Constable ; R Wilkins and C. Tanner , Churchwardens : Who , by con - sent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in the Presence at the Damsel's decease ; caused a Letter to be written , and sent it from thence to London , on Purpose to have it printed , thereby to avoid Scandal . Contrived in Metre , by L P. Newcastle upon Tyne , Printed and Sold by John White . A Wondered Prophecy . Declared by Christian James , a Maid of Twenty Years of Age , late Daughter to Daniel James who was born and bred near the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwel , who departed this Life upon the 8th of March . With a true Relation of her Behaviour , both in her Lifetime , and at the Hour of her Death , worthy to be had in perpetual Memory . To the Tune of , In Summer Time , etc THE mighty Lord that rules in Heaven , Strange Wonders does in Englind send , And many Warning hath us given , 'Cause we our Lives should soon amend : But like the misbelieving Jews , So hard of Heart some People be , They think that nothing can be true , But that which their own Eyes did see . Therefore , good People , mark it well , I'll here lay open to your view A Song most wondered and strange , And can approve it to be true : A Damsel did near Padstow , dwell , Within the County of Cornwel fair , Whose Parents had no Child but her , She was her Father's only Heir . To whom came a brave Young Man , Intending to make her a Wife , But never tempting Tongue could make , This Maid to change her Maiden Life : And though her Parents Riches had , And costly Garments her allow'd , In homely Habit she would go , And always hated to be proud . She ne'er was herd to curse or swear , Nor any Word of Anger give , But courteous was in every Thing , To them that did about her live : If she herd any one to swear , Or take God's sacred Name in vain , She told them that they crucify'd , Our Saviour Jesus-Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , And also did relieve the Poor , The Widow and the Fatherless , She every Day fed at the Door : Upon a Time , this Damsel she Fell Sick , and in a deadly Found , She lay for twenty Hours Space , No Life in her could then be found . Her aged Father did lament , Her Mother she shed many a Tear , She wept , she wail'd , she wrung her Hands , For loss of this her Daughter dear : Alas ! alas ! my Child , she said , How dearly have I tender'd thee ; And wilt thou now forsake the World , And leave me in this Misery . I would thy Birth had been my Death , Then never had I seen this Day ; This grievous Moan the Mother made , By her dear Daughter as she lay : At last she did strong Waters fetch , And rub'd her Temples and each Vein , Till at the last the Damsel had , Recover'd Life and Sense again . And being come unto her Speech , With Voice most shrill aloud , she cry'd Oh Mother you have done me wrong , This cannot be by you deny'd ; For I was in the Way to Heaven , Two glorious Angels did me guide , Who gently took me by the Hand . SInging of Psalms and Spiritual Songs , So long as we passed on the Way , Till he which had a Golden Crown , Met us , and caused us to stay : Return , said he , from whence thou cam'st , Thy Mother for thee makes great Moan ; And tell those Things which I declare , Unto thy Neighbours every one . Speak this , quoth he , unto them all , How that the Lord e'er long will send , A grievous Punishment to them , That does him wilfully offend : This is the last Age of the World , Even to the very Sink of since , The Puddle of Iniquity , Which thou long Time hath wallowed in : The Man and Wife live in Discord , The Father envies his own Son , The Rich and Poor , the Old and Young , Do hourly into Mischief run : Extortion and Idolatry , And hateful Pride is now in use , Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile , The People count as no abuse . God's Ministers are set at nought , The Sabbath is prophan'd also , The poor lies starving in the Street , Oppressed with Sorrow , Grief , and Woe : The loathsome since of Drunkenness , And Whoredom does much exceed , He that can do his Neighbour wrong , Does think he Does a godly deed . Now ponder well what I do say , Doom's dreadful Day is nigh at Hand , Fire and Brimstone shall destroy , The Heaven , the Earth , the Sea and Land ; And every Soul before the Lord , A just Account he then shall give , His Conscience shall a Witness be , In what Condition he did live . Then he that had done well shall pass , Forthwith to everlasting Rest , And live among'st those glorious Saints , Which Jesus Christ our Lord hath blessed ; Where Martyrs , Prophets , Patriarchs , Do Hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and Honour be to God , And unto Christ our heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , When they shall hear the Sentence past , Depart you cursed into Hell , Whose Fire for evermore shall las The Sorrows which are here foretold , Will come on you , e'er it be long , Except Repentance truly dwell , In Hearts of all , both Old and Young . Repentance and true watery Eyes , Will help to quench the burning Flame , Which he hath kindled , to consume The wicked World's most rotten Frame : Let not your Buildings all so brave , Turn'd and wasted with God's Ire , Let not your Souls , for whom Christ dy'd , Be burned in Hell's eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophecy . THese Speeches spoke , the Maiden dy'd , And came no more to Life again ; Her Soul , no doubt , is gone to Heaven , With glorious Angels to remain : At her decease , and Harmony Of Music there was herd to found , Which ravish'd all the Standers by , It did with Sweetness so abound . It pierc'd the Earth and Air also , Yet no Man knew from whence it came , But each one said it came from Heaven : And presently upon the same , The Magistrates of that same Parish , Which herd and saw this wonder strange , Desir'd to have it put in Print , 'Cause wicked Men their Ways may change . The Names of the Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her Death-Bed , and herd the Words of the Prophecy which she delivered , were as follows : W. Wates , Curate ; T. Davies , Head Constable ; R Wilkins and C. Tanner , Churchwardens : Who , by con - sent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in the Presence at the Damsel's decease ; caused a Letter to be written , and sent it from thence to London , on Purpose to have it printed , thereby to avoid Scandal . Contrived in Metre , by L P. Newcastle upon Tyne , Printed and Sold by John White . 