VERNON's Glory : Or , The Spaniards Defeat . Being and Account of the Taking of Carthagena by Vice-Admiral Vernon , Rear-Admiral Ogle , and Commodore Lestock on the First of April last . Written by a Sailor on board the Shrewsbury , and brought over by the Spence Sloop . [ Tune of , Brave Vernon's Triumph . ] ONCE more brave Boys let us proclaim Brave Noble Admiral Vernon's Fame , With Sir Chaloner Ogle too ; they now have made the Spaniards rue : For Carthageen they now have ta'en , and laid it level with the Ground , Seven Castles so brave their Town could not save , for Vernon and Ogle have beatrice them down . Last March we did from Jamaica sail , with a fair and gentle Gale , Vice Admiral Vernon of the Blue , Sir Chaloner Ogle Rear-admiral too , With Lestock Commodore , we made our Cannons roar , and two and twenty Frigates beside , Thirty Ships of the Line , a Sighed very fine , before Carthageen at anchor to ride . Bocachica Castle first we took , which made the Spaniards blue to look ; That being of the largest Force , the other six did fallen of course : With our Cannons and Bombs we dismounted their Guns , and our Colours did on their Castles raise : Then toss off a Glass , and about let it pass , to Admiral Vernon's and Ogle's Praise . For twelve Hours space we bombarded the Town , Before we brought their proud Spirits down , We fir'd so smart , that they thought we were mad , at length to surrender they were glad : We did so cannonade , and such Breaches we made and many of their Houses set in a Flame , They did submit to Fate , and the Town surrender to Admiral Vernon , the Scourge of Spain . The Shrewsbury she did suffer most , and many of her Sailors lost , Her Cable broke , on the Castles she drove , and there expected she would have stove ; But kind Providence stood in her Defence : much shatter'd , at last she clear'd her Way , Her jolly Sailors bold , those noble Hearts of Gold , all the time shew'd the Spaniards gallant Play . DONE Blass with six Ships in the Harbour lay , and soon we shew'd him British Play ; We made that proud and hectoring DONE Coward-like from his Ship to run : Tho' his Ship he forsook , two Captains we took , and unto England brought them home : Let th' insulting Foe , and proud DONE know , Vernon can conquer wherever he comes . Six Galleons did there remain , which by our Fleet were burned or ta'en , and tho' their Treasure was on Shore . yet we found a sufficient Store ; For Plunder , my Boys , did crown our Joys , after that strong Place we had wone : We did revel and roar , and booze it on Shore , and forgotten all the Dangers we had run . In the King's Storehouses we found the Valve of several Thousand Pounds , Which with great Joy we brought away , and did on board our Ships convey : Our Success was crown'd with Plunder we found , while the cowardly Spaniards from us fled , So great was their fear , they would not us come near for Vernon had fill'd them all with Dread . When we had all their Treasure seiz'd , and freely plunder'd where we pleas'd , and none but Rubbish did remain , their Storehouses we set on Flames ; Thus we burned them down quite unto the Ground , a Heap of Ashes for to view : Let the Cowards know , tho' they did insult us so , what Noble Admiral Vernon can do . Our jolly Tars , brave noble Hearts , and the brave Marines did play their Parts : The Officers their Order gave , which the Men perform'd as brave : They never did flinch , nor gave back and Inch , but sweet Revenge was all their Cry , They scorn'd for to run from the Mouth of a Gun , but with Vernon and Ogle would conquer or die For the proud Queen of Spain we care not a Fart , For Carthageen she may break her Hear Of DONE Blass , that cowardly Tool , Brave Vernon did make and April Fool ; For 'twas upon that Day we made him run away , unto our Noble Admiral's Fame : Then fill a brimming Glass , and round let it pass to Admiral Vernon , and Ogle's Name . Come brave Boys a Health begin , and fill your Glasses to the Brim ; A Health to Admiral Vernon brave , to Sir Chaloner Ogle another we'll have ; To each jolly Tar and Marine that was there , whose Courage there was bravely seen ; To Lestock Commodore's , and many thousands more who assisted at taking of Cartageen . VERNON's Glory : Or , The Spaniards Defeat . Being and Account of the Taking of Carthagena by Vice-Admiral Vernon , Rear-Admiral Ogle , and Commodore Lestock on the First of April last . Written by a Sailor on board the Shrewsbury , and brought over by the Spence Sloop . [ Tune of , Brave Vernon's Triumph . ] ONCE more brave Boys let us proclaim Brave Noble Admiral Vernon's Fame , With Sir Chaloner Ogle too ; they now have made the Spaniards rue : For Carthageen they now have ta'en , and laid it level with the Ground , Seven Castles so brave their Town could not save , for Vernon and Ogle have beatrice them down . Last March we did from Jamaica sail , with a fair and gentle Gale , Vice Admiral Vernon of the Blue , Sir Chaloner Ogle Rear-admiral too , With Lestock Commodore , we made our Cannons roar , and two and twenty Frigates beside , Thirty Ships of the Line , a Sighed very fine , before Carthageen at anchor to ride . Bocachica Castle first we took , which made the Spaniards blue to look ; That being of the largest Force , the other six did fallen of course : With our Cannons and Bombs we dismounted their Guns , and our Colours did on their Castles raise : Then toss off a Glass , and about let it pass , to Admiral Vernon's and Ogle's Praise . For twelve Hours space we bombarded the Town , Before we brought their proud Spirits down , We fir'd so smart , that they thought we were mad , at length to surrender they were glad : We did so cannonade , and such Breaches we made and many of their Houses set in a Flame , They did submit to Fate , and the Town surrender to Admiral Vernon , the Scourge of Spain . The Shrewsbury she did suffer most , and many of her Sailors lost , Her Cable broke , on the Castles she drove , and there expected she would have stove ; But kind Providence stood in her Defence : much shatter'd , at last she clear'd her Way , Her jolly Sailors bold , those noble Hearts of Gold , all the time shew'd the Spaniards gallant Play . DONE Blass with six Ships in the Harbour lay , and soon we shew'd him British Play ; We made that proud and hectoring DONE Coward-like from his Ship to run : Tho' his Ship he forsook , two Captains we took , and unto England brought them home : Let th' insulting Foe , and proud DONE know , Vernon can conquer wherever he comes . Six Galleons did there remain , which by our Fleet were burned or ta'en , and tho' their Treasure was on Shore . yet we found a sufficient Store ; For Plunder , my Boys , did crown our Joys , after that strong Place we had wone : We did revel and roar , and booze it on Shore , and forgotten all the Dangers we had run . In the King's Storehouses we found the Valve of several Thousand Pounds , Which with great Joy we brought away , and did on board our Ships convey : Our Success was crown'd with Plunder we found , while the cowardly Spaniards from us fled , So great was their fear , they would not us come near for Vernon had fill'd them all with Dread . When we had all their Treasure seiz'd , and freely plunder'd where we pleas'd , and none but Rubbish did remain , their Storehouses we set on Flames ; Thus we burned them down quite unto the Ground , a Heap of Ashes for to view : Let the Cowards know , tho' they did insult us so , what Noble Admiral Vernon can do . Our jolly Tars , brave noble Hearts , and the brave Marines did play their Parts : The Officers their Order gave , which the Men perform'd as brave : They never did flinch , nor gave back and Inch , but sweet Revenge was all their Cry , They scorn'd for to run from the Mouth of a Gun , but with Vernon and Ogle would conquer or die For the proud Queen of Spain we care not a Fart , For Carthageen she may break her Hear Of DONE Blass , that cowardly Tool , Brave Vernon did make and April Fool ; For 'twas upon that Day we made him run away , unto our Noble Admiral's Fame : Then fill a brimming Glass , and round let it pass to Admiral Vernon , and Ogle's Name . Come brave Boys a Health begin , and fill your Glasses to the Brim ; A Health to Admiral Vernon brave , to Sir Chaloner Ogle another we'll have ; To each jolly Tar and Marine that was there , whose Courage there was bravely seen ; To Lestock Commodore's , and many thousands more who assisted at taking of Cartageen . 