QUEEN ELIZABETH's Opinion concerning TRANSUBSTANTIATION , Or the Real Presence of Christ , in the Blessed Sacrament ; with some Prayers and Thanksgivings composed by Her in Imminent Dangers . DURING the Reign of Q. Marry , the La - die Elizabeth being a Prisoner at Wood - stock , a Popish Priest came to visit her , and after some Discourse , pressed hard upon her to declare her Opinion of the Real Presence of Christ in the Sacrament , to whom she truly and warily answered in these following verses : 'Twas God the Word that spoke it , He took the Bred and brake i And what that Word did make it , That I believe and take it . This sense of which is more fully explained in the fol - lowing POEM . A MEDITATION how to discern the Lords Body in the Blessed Sacrament . AND if Men's Fingers cannot make the Wheat , Which makes the Sacramental Bred we eat ; What Art of Transubstantiation can Make God of Wafers , who of Dust made Man ? When we are by th' Apostle truly told , The Godhead is not like Silver or Gold ; Or any thing Corruptions Power can waste , For he to all Eternity must las And if the Art of Man can make his Maker , The Smith may do as well as do's the Baker ; Bred was the substance which our Saviour gave , And Bred it was th' Apostles did receive ; His Real Body was b [ ut ] in the Sign , He gave his Flesh , and Blood in Bred and Wine : For if his Body he did then divide , He must have eat himself before he dy'd . His human Body which for us was given , Is given to us of Bred which came from Heaven ; The which if we unworthily Receive , We eat our Judgments , and ourselves deceive . In not discerning what his Body is , Our Souls are rob'd of everlasting Bliss . We must believe the Words of him , who said , This is my Body ; when he gave the Bred : And sure that Blood which curdl'd in each Vein , Did in his Sacred Body still remain , Till he was Crucify'd and Slave . However , there's great Influence therein , Which expiates and cleanseth us from since : We are made One with him in Holy Union , When we in Faith receive the Blessed Communion . In Commemoration of his bitter Passion , Who shed his Blood to purchase our Salvation ; We on his Merits must depend alone , Sufficient 'tis that Merit we have none : Nor can there any other Name be given To save us , but by him who sits in Heaven . His Body here on Earth need not appear , When Angels to the Women say , He is not here ; He's not i'th' Press or Cupboard , as some say ; For then the Mice might carry him away . The Primitive Christians never were so blind , To think he could be blown away with wind . Or that some Thieves or Rubbers might devour , Him who created Heaven by his Power . We are not sav'd by Sense , but by our Faith , And ought to credit what our Master says . He call'd himself a Vine , and yet we see , He was a perfect Man , and not a Tree . He call'd himself a Door ; 'tis understood , We enter Heaven through Him , and not through Wood . He call'd himself a Way , the which does led Our Steps to Heaven , yet none does on him tread . His blessed Words were ofttimes Mystical , And are not rightly understood by all : Save such on whom he does that Gift bestow , Who to the Ignorant the Truth may show . His Blessed Body Heaven must contain , Where He a King eternally does Reign , Until the Restitution of all ; Then we with him and Angels ever shall Sing Hallelujahs in their Hierarchy ; For where He is , there must his Servants be . A PRAYER of Queen Elizabeth upon her escape from being burned in her Bed , by a Fire flaming through the Boards of her Chamber , during her Imprisonment at Woodstock in Oxfordshire . O Gracious Lord God , I humbly prostrate myself upon the bent Knees of my Heart before thee , entreating thee for thy Sons sake , to be now and ever merciful unto me : I am thy work , the work of thine own Hands ; even of those Hands which were nailed to the Cross for my Sins . Look upon the Wounds of thy Hands , and despise not the work of thy hands . Thou hast written me down in thy Book of Preservation ; read thine own handwriting and save me ; Spare me that speak unto thee , pardon me that pray unto thee . The Griefs I endure enforce me to speak , the Calamities I suffer compel me to complain : If my hope's were in this life only then were I of all People most miseram - ble . It must needs be that there is another life ; for here those live many times longest , who are not worthy to live at all . Here the Israelites make Bricks , and the Egyptians dwell in the Houses : David is in want , and Nabal a - bounds : Sion is Babylons Captive . Hast thou nothing in store for Joseph but the stocks , for Esay but a Saw ? Will not Elias adorn the Chariot as well as the Juniper Tree ? Will not John Baptists Head become a Crown as well as a Platter ? Surely there is great Retribution for the Just , there is Fruit for the Righteous : Thou hast Palms for their Hands , white Robes for their Bodies . Thou wilt wipe a way all Tears from their Eyes , and show thy goodness in the Land of the Living . How g [ ood ] and desirable is the shadow of thy wings ? O Lord Jesus ! That is a safe San - ctuary to fly unto , a comfortable refreshing from all since and sorrow : Whatsoever [ Cu ] p [ of A ] ffliction this Life makes me drink of , it is yet nothing to those bitter Draughts that thou hast already drank for me : Help me , O thou my strength , and thereby I shall be raised up : Come thou my Light , and thereby I shall be illuminated ; appear thou Glory to which I shall be exalted : Hasten thou Life by which I shall be hereafter glorified . Amen , Amen . When Q. Mary was dead , and the News thereof came to Q. Elizabeth , she removed from Hatfield to the Char - ter-house , from whence she was Royally Attended to the Tower of London , and Nov. 24 1558. She set forward from the Tower to pass through the City to Westminster . But the Queen considering that she was now exalted from Misery to Majesty , from a Prisoner to a Princess : She ve - ry devoutly and religiously lifted up her Hands to Heaven before she would suffer her self to be mounted in her Cha - riot , and made the following Prayer . O Lord , Almighty and everliving God , I give thee most humble and hearty thanks , that thou hast been so merciful unto me as to spare me to see this joyful and blessed day ; and I acknowledge thou hast dealt as graci - ously and wonderfully with me , as thou didst with thy true and faithful Servant Daniel thy Prophet , whom thou deli - veredst out of the Lions Den , from the cruelty of the greedy and raging Lions ; even so was I overwhelmed , and by thee delivered : To thee therefore only be Thanks , and Honour , and Praise , for evermore , Amen . In 1588 , The Spanish Armado invaded the Kingdom ; the Design being no less than the Conquest of England ; at which time Q. Elizabeth having raised a considerable are - my of Horse and Foot , who were encamped at Tilbury , near the Thames mouth ; the Queen with a Masculine Spirit , like another Deborah , came and took a view of her Army ; and going about through the several Ranks of Armed Men , drawn up on both sides of her , with a Generals Truncheon in her hand , walked sometime with a Martial pace , another while gently like a Woman : It is incredible how much she encouraged the Hearts of her Captains and Soldiers by her presence , but especially by her most generous and un - daunted Speech , which she made in the midst of them , to this effec MY Loving People , we have been persuaded by some that are careful of our safety , to take heed how we commit our selves to armed Multitudes , for fear of Treache - ry ; but I assure you , I do not desire to live to distrust my faithful and loving People ; let Tyrants fear , I have always so behaved my self , that under God I have always placed my chiefest strength and safeguard in the loyal Hearts and good Will of my Subject's ; and therefore I am come among you , as you see at this time , not for my Recreation and Dis - port , but being resolved in the midst and heat of the Battle , to live or die among you all ; to lay down for my God , and for my Kingdom and for my People , my Honour , and my Blood , even in the dus I know I have the Body but of a weak and feeble Woman , yet I have the Heart and Courage of a King , and of a King of England too ; and think foul scorn that Parma , or Spain , or any Prince of Europe , should dare to Inva QUEEN ELIZABETH's Opinion concerning TRANSUBSTANTIATION , Or the Real Presence of Christ , in the Blessed Sacrament ; with some Prayers and Thanksgivings composed by Her in Imminent Dangers . DURING the Reign of Q. Marry , the La - die Elizabeth being a Prisoner at Wood - stock , a Popish Priest came to visit her , and after some Discourse , pressed hard upon her to declare her Opinion of the Real Presence of Christ in the Sacrament , to whom she truly and warily answered in these following verses : 'Twas God the Word that spoke it , He took the Bred and brake i And what that Word did make it , That I believe and take it . This sense of which is more fully explained in the fol - lowing POEM . A MEDITATION how to discern the Lords Body in the Blessed Sacrament . AND if Men's Fingers cannot make the Wheat , Which makes the Sacramental Bred we eat ; What Art of Transubstantiation can Make God of Wafers , who of Dust made Man ? When we are by th' Apostle truly told , The Godhead is not like Silver or Gold ; Or any thing Corruptions Power can waste , For he to all Eternity must las And if the Art of Man can make his Maker , The Smith may do as well as do's the Baker ; Bred was the substance which our Saviour gave , And Bred it was th' Apostles did receive ; His Real Body was b [ ut ] in the Sign , He gave his Flesh , and Blood in Bred and Wine : For if his Body he did then divide , He must have eat himself before he dy'd . His human Body which for us was given , Is given to us of Bred which came from Heaven ; The which if we unworthily Receive , We eat our Judgments , and ourselves deceive . In not discerning what his Body is , Our Souls are rob'd of everlasting Bliss . We must believe the Words of him , who said , This is my Body ; when he gave the Bred : And sure that Blood which curdl'd in each Vein , Did in his Sacred Body still remain , Till he was Crucify'd and Slave . However , there's great Influence therein , Which expiates and cleanseth us from since : We are made One with him in Holy Union , When we in Faith receive the Blessed Communion . In Commemoration of his bitter Passion , Who shed his Blood to purchase our Salvation ; We on his Merits must depend alone , Sufficient 'tis that Merit we have none : Nor can there any other Name be given To save us , but by him who sits in Heaven . His Body here on Earth need not appear , When Angels to the Women say , He is not here ; He's not i'th' Press or Cupboard , as some say ; For then the Mice might carry him away . The Primitive Christians never were so blind , To think he could be blown away with wind . Or that some Thieves or Rubbers might devour , Him who created Heaven by his Power . We are not sav'd by Sense , but by our Faith , And ought to credit what our Master says . He call'd himself a Vine , and yet we see , He was a perfect Man , and not a Tree . He call'd himself a Door ; 'tis understood , We enter Heaven through Him , and not through Wood . He call'd himself a Way , the which does led Our Steps to Heaven , yet none does on him tread . His blessed Words were ofttimes Mystical , And are not rightly understood by all : Save such on whom he does that Gift bestow , Who to the Ignorant the Truth may show . His Blessed Body Heaven must contain , Where He a King eternally does Reign , Until the Restitution of all ; Then we with him and Angels ever shall Sing Hallelujahs in their Hierarchy ; For where He is , there must his Servants be . A PRAYER of Queen Elizabeth upon her escape from being burned in her Bed , by a Fire flaming through the Boards of her Chamber , during her Imprisonment at Woodstock in Oxfordshire . O Gracious Lord God , I humbly prostrate myself upon the bent Knees of my Heart before thee , entreating thee for thy Sons sake , to be now and ever merciful unto me : I am thy work , the work of thine own Hands ; even of those Hands which were nailed to the Cross for my Sins . Look upon the Wounds of thy Hands , and despise not the work of thy hands . Thou hast written me down in thy Book of Preservation ; read thine own handwriting and save me ; Spare me that speak unto thee , pardon me that pray unto thee . The Griefs I endure enforce me to speak , the Calamities I suffer compel me to complain : If my hope's were in this life only then were I of all People most miseram - ble . It must needs be that there is another life ; for here those live many times longest , who are not worthy to live at all . Here the Israelites make Bricks , and the Egyptians dwell in the Houses : David is in want , and Nabal a - bounds : Sion is Babylons Captive . Hast thou nothing in store for Joseph but the stocks , for Esay but a Saw ? Will not Elias adorn the Chariot as well as the Juniper Tree ? Will not John Baptists Head become a Crown as well as a Platter ? Surely there is great Retribution for the Just , there is Fruit for the Righteous : Thou hast Palms for their Hands , white Robes for their Bodies . Thou wilt wipe a way all Tears from their Eyes , and show thy goodness in the Land of the Living . How g [ ood ] and desirable is the shadow of thy wings ? O Lord Jesus ! That is a safe San - ctuary to fly unto , a comfortable refreshing from all since and sorrow : Whatsoever [ Cu ] p [ of A ] ffliction this Life makes me drink of , it is yet nothing to those bitter Draughts that thou hast already drank for me : Help me , O thou my strength , and thereby I shall be raised up : Come thou my Light , and thereby I shall be illuminated ; appear thou Glory to which I shall be exalted : Hasten thou Life by which I shall be hereafter glorified . Amen , Amen . When Q. Mary was dead , and the News thereof came to Q. Elizabeth , she removed from Hatfield to the Char - ter-house , from whence she was Royally Attended to the Tower of London , and Nov. 24 1558. She set forward from the Tower to pass through the City to Westminster . But the Queen considering that she was now exalted from Misery to Majesty , from a Prisoner to a Princess : She ve - ry devoutly and religiously lifted up her Hands to Heaven before she would suffer her self to be mounted in her Cha - riot , and made the following Prayer . O Lord , Almighty and everliving God , I give thee most humble and hearty thanks , that thou hast been so merciful unto me as to spare me to see this joyful and blessed day ; and I acknowledge thou hast dealt as graci - ously and wonderfully with me , as thou didst with thy true and faithful Servant Daniel thy Prophet , whom thou deli - veredst out of the Lions Den , from the cruelty of the greedy and raging Lions ; even so was I overwhelmed , and by thee delivered : To thee therefore only be Thanks , and Honour , and Praise , for evermore , Amen . In 1588 , The Spanish Armado invaded the Kingdom ; the Design being no less than the Conquest of England ; at which time Q. Elizabeth having raised a considerable are - my of Horse and Foot , who were encamped at Tilbury , near the Thames mouth ; the Queen with a Masculine Spirit , like another Deborah , came and took a view of her Army ; and going about through the several Ranks of Armed Men , drawn up on both sides of her , with a Generals Truncheon in her hand , walked sometime with a Martial pace , another while gently like a Woman : It is incredible how much she encouraged the Hearts of her Captains and Soldiers by her presence , but especially by her most generous and un - daunted Speech , which she made in the midst of them , to this effec MY Loving People , we have been persuaded by some that are careful of our safety , to take heed how we commit our selves to armed Multitudes , for fear of Treache - ry ; but I assure you , I do not desire to live to distrust my faithful and loving People ; let Tyrants fear , I have always so behaved my self , that under God I have always placed my chiefest strength and safeguard in the loyal Hearts and good Will of my Subject's ; and therefore I am come among you , as you see at this time , not for my Recreation and Dis - port , but being resolved in the midst and heat of the Battle , to live or die among you all ; to lay down for my God , and for my Kingdom and for my People , my Honour , and my Blood , even in the dus I know I have the Body but of a weak and feeble Woman , yet I have the Heart and Courage of a King , and of a King of England too ; and think foul scorn that Parma , or Spain , or any Prince of Europe , should dare to Invade the Borders of my Realm ; to which rather than any dishonour shall grow by me , I my self will take up Arms , I my self will be your General , Judge , and Rewarder of every one of your Virtues in the Field : I know that already for your forwardness you have deserved Re - wards and Crowns , and we do assure you in the word of a Prince , they shall duly be paid you : In the mean time my Lieutenant General Leicester shall be in my stead ; than whom , never Prince commanded a more noble or worthy Subject ; not doubting , but by your Obedience to your Ge - neral , by your Concord in the Camp , and your Valour in the Field , we shall short [ l ] y obtain a famous Victory over those Enemies of my God , of my Kingdom , and of my People . The Queen provided also as good a Fleet as possible , con - sisting of 140 Ships , divided into 3 Squadrons , commanded by the L. Howard Admiral , Sir Fr. Drake Vice Admiral , and the L. Hen . Seamour Rear Admiral ; which being rea - dy to sail , this Religious Princess composed this Prayer for their good Success . MOst Omnipotent Creator and Governor of all the World , that only searchest and knowest the bottom of all hearts and thoughts , and therein seest the true inten - cion of all our Actions : Thou knowest , Oh God , that it is nei - ther malice , nor revenge for any injury offered us , neither desire of bloodshed , nor greediness of gain , that hath been the occasion of raising and setting forth this Navy , but on - lie that necessary care and wary watchfulness , that neither the malice of our Enemies , nor our own over-security may bring danger to us , or triumph to them : These being the true grounds and reasons of our attempt , as thou , Oh Lord , knowest , I humbly beseech thee with bent Knees to pros - per the undertaking ; command the Winds to assist us , and grant us Victory and Deliverance from this imminent dan - her ; that so all may end in the advancement of thy Glory and Honour , the exalting of thy Name , and the safety of this Realm , with the least loss of the English Blood that may be : To these my devout Petitions , Lord give thy blessed Assent . Amen . After the Defeat of the Spanish Invincible Armado , as they called it , the gracious and godly Queen , who ever held Ingratitude a capital since , especially towards her Almighty Protector , as she had begun with Prayer , so she concluded with Praises , and Thanksgivings ; commanding a solemn Thanksgiving to be celebrated to the Lord of Hosts ; and composed herself a Prayer of Thankfulness to this effec MOst Omnipotent Creator , Redeemer and Preserver of all Mankind ; when it seemed good to thy Almigh - ty Wisdom to create the whole Earth , thou didst divide in - to four several parts the materials thereof , which are since called Elements , and do all serve to continue that orderly Government which thou hast designed them : And all these , Oh God , out of thy most singular bounty , and unheard of care , thou hast made to serve as Instruments to daunt and destroy our Foes , and to confound their malice ; for which , with bowed Heart , and bent Knees , I humbly return hearty thanks and acknowledgment ; and it is not the least part of this great deliverance that the weakest Sex hath been so assisted by thy strongest help ; that my own People have no cause to complain of my weakness , nor Foreigners to triumph at my ruin : Yea , such hath been thy unwonted Grace in my days , that though Satan and his Instruments have been continually practising against my Life and State , yet thy mighty Hand hath defended us , and thy Wings have covered us , that they have not prevailed against us , neither have we received any damage by them ; but have cause to bless and magnify thy Holy Name , that thou hast clothed our Enemies with shame , and the greatest disho - nou_r_ : for which great goodness of thine , Oh Lord , grant that we may be continually thankful , and ever mindful : And if I may find favour in thine Eyes , be pleased , Oh God , to grant thy countenance and favour to us in my days , that my years may never see any change of thy love and grace towards me , but especially to this Kingdom : which grant , Oh Lord , for thy Sons sake , may flourish for Many Ages , after I shall go hence and be no more : Grant this , Oh Lord , in the Name of Jesus . Amen . Licensed , Aug. 27th , 1688. LONDON : Printed for F . E.de the Borders of my Realm ; to which rather than any dishonour shall grow by me , I my self will take up Arms , I my self will be your General , Judge , and Rewarder of every one of your Virtues in the Field : I know that already for your forwardness you have deserved Re - wards and Crowns , and we do assure you in the word of a Prince , they shall duly be paid you : In the mean time my Lieutenant General Leicester shall be in my stead ; than whom , never Prince commanded a more noble or worthy Subject ; not doubting , but by your Obedience to your Ge - neral , by your Concord in the Camp , and your Valour in the Field , we shall short [ l ] y obtain a famous Victory over those Enemies of my God , of my Kingdom , and of my People . The Queen provided also as good a Fleet as possible , con - sisting of 140 Ships , divided into 3 Squadrons , commanded by the L. Howard Admiral , Sir Fr. Drake Vice Admiral , and the L. Hen . Seamour Rear Admiral ; which being rea - dy to sail , this Religious Princess composed this Prayer for their good Success . MOst Omnipotent Creator and Governor of all the World , that only searchest and knowest the bottom of all hearts and thoughts , and therein seest the true inten - cion of all our Actions : Thou knowest , Oh God , that it is nei - ther malice , nor revenge for any injury offered us , neither desire of bloodshed , nor greediness of gain , that hath been the occasion of raising and setting forth this Navy , but on - lie that necessary care and wary watchfulness , that neither the malice of our Enemies , nor our own over-security may bring danger to us , or triumph to them : These being the true grounds and reasons of our attempt , as thou , Oh Lord , knowest , I humbly beseech thee with bent Knees to pros - per the undertaking ; command the Winds to assist us , and grant us Victory and Deliverance from this imminent dan - her ; that so all may end in the advancement of thy Glory and Honour , the exalting of thy Name , and the safety of this Realm , with the least loss of the English Blood that may be : To these my devout Petitions , Lord give thy blessed Assent . Amen . After the Defeat of the Spanish Invincible Armado , as they called it , the gracious and godly Queen , who ever held Ingratitude a capital since , especially towards her Almighty Protector , as she had begun with Prayer , so she concluded with Praises , and Thanksgivings ; commanding a solemn Thanksgiving to be celebrated to the Lord of Hosts ; and composed herself a Prayer of Thankfulness to this effec MOst Omnipotent Creator , Redeemer and Preserver of all Mankind ; when it seemed good to thy Almigh - ty Wisdom to create the whole Earth , thou didst divide in - to four several parts the materials thereof , which are since called Elements , and do all serve to continue that orderly Government which thou hast designed them : And all these , Oh God , out of thy most singular bounty , and unheard of care , thou hast made to serve as Instruments to daunt and destroy our Foes , and to confound their malice ; for which , with bowed Heart , and bent Knees , I humbly return hearty thanks and acknowledgment ; and it is not the least part of this great deliverance that the weakest Sex hath been so assisted by thy strongest help ; that my own People have no cause to complain of my weakness , nor Foreigners to triumph at my ruin : Yea , such hath been thy unwonted Grace in my days , that though Satan and his Instruments have been continually practising against my Life and State , yet thy mighty Hand hath defended us , and thy Wings have covered us , that they have not prevailed against us , neither have we received any damage by them ; but have cause to bless and magnify thy Holy Name , that thou hast clothed our Enemies with shame , and the greatest disho - nou_r_ : for which great goodness of thine , Oh Lord , grant that we may be continually thankful , and ever mindful : And if I may find favour in thine Eyes , be pleased , Oh God , to grant thy countenance and favour to us in my days , that my years may never see any change of thy love and grace towards me , but especially to this Kingdom : which grant , Oh Lord , for thy Sons sake , may flourish for Many Ages , after I shall go hence and be no more : Grant this , Oh Lord , in the Name of Jesus . Amen . Licensed , Aug. 27th , 1688. LONDON : Printed for F.E. 