The Merry Boys of Europe . No Liquour like the brisk Canary , It makes the dull Soul blithe and merry ; It helps the Back , prolongs the Life , And is much better then a Wife . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done , etc I'Le Drink of my Bottle each night for my share , And as for a Mistress I'le never take care ; The one makes me jolly and evermore gay , But a Mistress destroys by her sporting and play ; She drains all my Blood till I look quite as pale As a Thief that's half-starved , long kept in a Goal . She infeebles my Nerves , and does shorten my life , And empties my Pockets , and so will a Wife ; Then Women make Asses of those that you can , I'le find out a Comrade , some jolly youngman ; And in our full Glasses we'l laugh and we'l jest , So perhaps for diversion we'l drink to the best . When our senses are drown'd , & our eyes they do pink And our selves do not know what we say or do think ; Our wits we conceive are far better then they , Who to the Sack-Bottle could ne'r find the way : Then a Pox of those Misers who hourly do scrape , And knows not the virtue that lies in the Grape . Then Beauty's farewell , for I'le ne'r be your slave , Nor for your fair looks sighs my self to a Grave , But the Bottle I'le hug , which preserveth my life , Puts and end to my sorrows , and banisheth strife : When my thread it is spun ; & my hour comes to die ; Like Diogenes I in a Sack-Butt will lie . And that close Wainscot-room shall my body confine , Who valued not women , but loved good wine ; To Bacchus I'le surely be a Sacrifice , And ne'r be entangled by Ladies fair eyes ; Whose delight is to see men to sighs and to mourn , And their eyes they do feast when they see men forlorn What a fool is that man that will bow & will cringe To beauty , so he does his freedom infringe ; And while he might live and forever be free , Himself he deprives of his chief Liberty ; His rest it is lost and his spirits do fail , He's a foe to himself and does built his own Goal . Then give me the Lad that will swim in the Bottle , And not in salt water like vex'd Aristotle ; For had he but then been acquainted with Sack , His Judgement in tides he never would lack ; When he by his study his brains did confound , He leapt in the Ocean , and there he was drown'd . But this Liquour of Life which I so much commend To e'ry true Toper , will prove a true friend , And wash from his heart all his sorrow and care , In Poverty keep him from doubt and despair : Then who can but love this unparallel'd thing . That makes nobles of peasants ; & is drink for a King . If the mind be disturb'd , take this Liquour but free , And you'l find in a moment you cured will be : If you grieve or do mourn for the loss of a friend , This Liquour undoubtedly comfort will lend ; 'Tis good for all Men , and in every condition , Will keep them from charge of a prating Physician . Then matchless Canary I'le sing forth thy fame , And will against Beauty for ever exclaim , For he that does once fallen in love with the Vine , Will never have reason at all to repine ; For it cheers our dull souls , while we merrily sing , Long live Charles the second , our Sovereign King . In the height of our sport we no Treason conspire , To be brisk and be merry is all our desire ; Our hearts have no harbour for any ill thought ; We despise spite and malice and all that is nough And in our full Bumpers we'l laugh and we'l sing , And for our diversion we'l drink to the King . Printed for J. Clarke , at the Horseshoe , in West-smith - field , between the Hospital-Gate and Duck-Lane end . The Merry Boys of Europe . No Liquour like the brisk Canary , It makes the dull Soul blithe and merry ; It helps the Back , prolongs the Life , And is much better then a Wife . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done , etc I'Le Drink of my Bottle each night for my share , And as for a Mistress I'le never take care ; The one makes me jolly and evermore gay , But a Mistress destroys by her sporting and play ; She drains all my Blood till I look quite as pale As a Thief that's half-starved , long kept in a Goal . She infeebles my Nerves , and does shorten my life , And empties my Pockets , and so will a Wife ; Then Women make Asses of those that you can , I'le find out a Comrade , some jolly youngman ; And in our full Glasses we'l laugh and we'l jest , So perhaps for diversion we'l drink to the best . When our senses are drown'd , & our eyes they do pink And our selves do not know what we say or do think ; Our wits we conceive are far better then they , Who to the Sack-Bottle could ne'r find the way : Then a Pox of those Misers who hourly do scrape , And knows not the virtue that lies in the Grape . Then Beauty's farewell , for I'le ne'r be your slave , Nor for your fair looks sighs my self to a Grave , But the Bottle I'le hug , which preserveth my life , Puts and end to my sorrows , and banisheth strife : When my thread it is spun ; & my hour comes to die ; Like Diogenes I in a Sack-Butt will lie . And that close Wainscot-room shall my body confine , Who valued not women , but loved good wine ; To Bacchus I'le surely be a Sacrifice , And ne'r be entangled by Ladies fair eyes ; Whose delight is to see men to sighs and to mourn , And their eyes they do feast when they see men forlorn What a fool is that man that will bow & will cringe To beauty , so he does his freedom infringe ; And while he might live and forever be free , Himself he deprives of his chief Liberty ; His rest it is lost and his spirits do fail , He's a foe to himself and does built his own Goal . Then give me the Lad that will swim in the Bottle , And not in salt water like vex'd Aristotle ; For had he but then been acquainted with Sack , His Judgement in tides he never would lack ; When he by his study his brains did confound , He leapt in the Ocean , and there he was drown'd . But this Liquour of Life which I so much commend To e'ry true Toper , will prove a true friend , And wash from his heart all his sorrow and care , In Poverty keep him from doubt and despair : Then who can but love this unparallel'd thing . That makes nobles of peasants ; & is drink for a King . If the mind be disturb'd , take this Liquour but free , And you'l find in a moment you cured will be : If you grieve or do mourn for the loss of a friend , This Liquour undoubtedly comfort will lend ; 'Tis good for all Men , and in every condition , Will keep them from charge of a prating Physician . Then matchless Canary I'le sing forth thy fame , And will against Beauty for ever exclaim , For he that does once fallen in love with the Vine , Will never have reason at all to repine ; For it cheers our dull souls , while we merrily sing , Long live Charles the second , our Sovereign King . In the height of our sport we no Treason conspire , To be brisk and be merry is all our desire ; Our hearts have no harbour for any ill thought ; We despise spite and malice and all that is nough And in our full Bumpers we'l laugh and we'l sing , And for our diversion we'l drink to the King . Printed for J. Clarke , at the Horseshoe , in West-smith - field , between the Hospital-Gate and Duck-Lane end . 