A New Song , Sung in the Play of the King and the Miller of Mansfield . HOW happy a state does the Miller possess , Who would be no greater nor fears to be Leses , On his Mill and himself he depends for for support , Which is better than servilely cringing at Court . What though he all dusty and whiten'd does go , The more he is pow ed'd the more like a Beau , A Clown in his dress may be honester far , Than a Courtier who struts in a Garter and star . Though his hands are so daub'd they're not fit to be seen , The hands of his betters are not very Clean , A palm more polite may as dirtily deal , Gold in handling will stick to the fingers like meal . What though when a Pudding for dinner he lac [ k ] s , He crib without scruple from other men's sacks , In this of right noble Example he brags , Who borrows as freely from other men's bags . Or should he endeavour to heap and Estate , In this too he Mimics the tools of the state , Whose aim is alone their own coffers to fill , As all his concern's to bring Grist to his Mill. He eats when he's hunggry and drinks when he's dry , And down when he's weary contented does lie , Then rises up cheerful to work and to sing , If so happy a Miller then who'd be a King . A New Song , Sung in the Play of the King and the Miller of Mansfield . HOW happy a state does the Miller possess , Who would be no greater nor fears to be Leses , On his Mill and himself he depends for for support , Which is better than servilely cringing at Court . What though he all dusty and whiten'd does go , The more he is pow ed'd the more like a Beau , A Clown in his dress may be honester far , Than a Courtier who struts in a Garter and star . Though his hands are so daub'd they're not fit to be seen , The hands of his betters are not very Clean , A palm more polite may as dirtily deal , Gold in handling will stick to the fingers like meal . What though when a Pudding for dinner he lac [ k ] s , He crib without scruple from other men's sacks , In this of right noble Example he brags , Who borrows as freely from other men's bags . Or should he endeavour to heap and Estate , In this too he Mimics the tools of the state , Whose aim is alone their own coffers to fill , As all his concern's to bring Grist to his Mill. He eats when he's hunggry and drinks when he's dry , And down when he's weary contented does lie , Then rises up cheerful to work and to sing , If so happy a Miller then who'd be a King . 