The TURKEY FACTOR BEHOLD here's a ditty , it's true and no jest , Concerning a young gentleman in the East , Who by his much gaming came to poverty , And afterwards went many a voyage to sea . Being well educated , and one of much wit , Three merchant's of London did think fit To make him their captain and factor also , And he on a voyage to Turkey did go . And walking along the streets he found A man's carcase lying upon the ground . He ask'd the reason why there did he lie Then one of the natives made him this reply . This man was a Christian , sir , when he drew breath ; His duties not paid , he lies above earth . Then what are the duties , the factor cry'd , Just fifty pounds , sir , the Turk reply'd . That is a large sum , said the factor indeed , But to see him thus lie makes my heart to bleed ; So then by the factor this money was paid . And then under the earth his carcase was laid . When having gone farther , he chanced to spy , A beautiful creature just going to die ; A young waiting lady that strangled must be , For nothing but striking a Turkish lady . To think of her dying with dread she was fill'd , And rivers of tears like waters distilled . Like a stream or fountain they did flow down Her rosy cheeks , and thence to the ground . Hearing the crime , he to end the strife , Said , What must I give to save her life ? The answer was five hundred pounds ; Which for her pardon he fairly put down . He said , Fair creature , from weeping refain , And be of comfort ; thou shalt not be slave . Behold I have purchase [ ' ] worser thy pardon , wilt thee Consent to go to England with me ? She said , sir , you have freed me from death , I am bound to love you while I have breath . And if you request it , to England I'll go , And my respects to you ever will show . HE brought her to London , and as it's said , He set up housekeeping , and she was his maid , There to wait on him and finding her just With the keys of his riches did her intrust . At length this brave factor was hired once more , To cross the seas where the billows do roar , When into the country he was to steer , Which by her father was govern'd we hear : Being a hight country , this maid did repair To get fine robes for the country wear . He bought a silk waistcoat , which I am told His button holes flower'd with silver and gold , She said to him , Master , I do understand You are going factor unto such a land . And if that prince's court you do enter in , Be sure this flower'd garment be seen . He said , to that prince's court I must go . The meaning of thy words I long for to know . Sir , there art some reasons which you will find . With that he said , I will fulfil thy mind . Then away he sailed , and arrived at the port . The factor came to the emperor's court . It was the usual cust [ oh ] m of the place , To present some noble gift unto his grace . His gift was accepted , and as they stood nigh , On his flower'd garment the prince cast and eye , Which made him colour , and thus he did say , Who flower'd that garment tell me , I pray ? [ P ] lease your grace , my last voyage was to Turkey , Where I saw a damsel so strangled must be , And to save her life I gave five hundred pounds , And took her with me to fair London-town . [ She ] is my housekeeper while I'm in this land , And [ w ] hen of my coming she did understand , [ ? ] worser this robe , giving charge to me , [ That it ] might be seen by your majesty . The prince said , Behold the robe I wear , This of the same colour and sport I declare The maid who worked both is my daughter dear , I have not hear'd of her these two years . For loss of my child whom I thought dead . A well full of tears in my court as been shed . My p [ rincess ] her mother and me cannot rest , Her loss brought a million of sighs from her breast . Thy ship shall be richly laden with speed , And I'll [ ? ] worser a ship for thy convey indeed ; Because that [ ou ] didst save my daughter's life . If thou bring her home she shall be thy wife . And if thou dost not live to bring her to me , The man who brings her shall her bridegroom be . And ten thousand pounds a year he shall have , Therefore be careful her life to save . The ship was laden , and the anchor weig'd , When he and his convoy came over the main . To fair London-city , and home he did go , And gave the princess those tidings to know . H [ e ] said , noble lady , I have good news to tell , The prince your father , and mother are well And your noble parents this thing have designed , In the band of wedlock we both must be join'd . Perhaps , dear princess , you will not agree , To wed with a poor man , especially me , Sir , were you but a beggar I will be your wife . Because : When just dying you saved my life . I ne'er shall forget the true token of love ; [ ? ] to him , Master , I do understand , And [ ? ] e it's to order'd I'm pleased , I vow , And I'm glad my father this thing does allow ; Fell of all the goods you have in store , And give all the money you have to the poor . Come let us be jogging with speed over the main , For I long to see my dear parents again . The thing was done , and they sail'd away , In the ship her father sent for a convoy . But hark what happen'd on the ocean wide , Forto rob the factor of his sweet bride . The captain who carry'd them over the deep . One night as the factor did lie asleep , Being under sail , overboard did him throw , And said , I shall have the princess I know . There happen'd to be a small island at hand . To which he did swim , as we understand ; Where we will leave him awhile for to mourn , And unto the ship again we'll return . Next morning as soon as day light did peep He awaked the princess out of her sleep . And said , Noble princess , the factor's not here , He's fallen over board and drowned I fear . Being arriv'd at the desir'd port , The princess went weeping to her father's court . When both received her with joy and mirth , Saying , Where's the man that free'd you from death ? The captain said , As he was asleep , He fell overboard , and was lost in the deep . You said , the man who her home did bring , Should have her , I hope you'll perform the thing . Yes , that was the promise , the father reply'd ; What sayest thou , will thou be his his bride ? She cried , yes , father , but first , if you please , For him who sav'd me I'll mourn forty days . Then into close mourning this princess she went The loss of her friend with tears did lament ; Where we will leave her to mourn awhile , And turn to the factor , who was on the isle . IN the desert island the factor lay , In floods of tears weeping night and day At length there appeared in his view , A little old man padding in a canoe . The factor called , which made him stay , And drawing near to him , the old man did say , How cam'st thou here I then his eyes did flow , The cause of my sorrow you soon shall know . If thou wilt promise , and be true to me , For to give the first born unto me , When three months old , to the court I'll thee bring , And will not release thee without this thing . The factor consider'd , that would cause grief ; And without it , for him there was no relief , He said . Life is sweet , and my life to save , Bring me to court , thy request thou shalt have . Then he was brought to the palace , and when He came under the gate , he saw the princess there , Peeping out of a window she saw him there , Of all [ ? ] thing [ ? ] Her sorrowing to joy transported were . He unto the court with joy was received , His princess met him , Who for him griev'd , And said , Dear jewel , the joy of my heart , Where hast thou been ; why didst thou depart . Where he had been he soon did relate , And how he came to her father's gate . He said , I was cast overboard in my sleep ; I fancy the captain threw me in the deep . With that the captain was sent for with speed But hearing the factor was come indeed , To show himself guilty , like a cruel knave , He jump'd into the sea , which prov'd his grave . Next day in great joy and [ triumph ] , we find The factor and princess in marriage were join'd And within the compass of two long year They had a son and daughter we hear . The firstborn a son , a perfect beauty , Who was beloved by the whole family When three months old came the man for the child Who released the factor from the desert isle . When the father saw him the tears did flow , Then he gave his father and mother to know , He was forced to make that promise , or to die With hung The TURKEY FACTOR BEHOLD here's a ditty , it's true and no jest , Concerning a young gentleman in the East , Who by his much gaming came to poverty , And afterwards went many a voyage to sea . Being well educated , and one of much wit , Three merchant's of London did think fit To make him their captain and factor also , And he on a voyage to Turkey did go . And walking along the streets he found A man's carcase lying upon the ground . He ask'd the reason why there did he lie Then one of the natives made him this reply . This man was a Christian , sir , when he drew breath ; His duties not paid , he lies above earth . Then what are the duties , the factor cry'd , Just fifty pounds , sir , the Turk reply'd . That is a large sum , said the factor indeed , But to see him thus lie makes my heart to bleed ; So then by the factor this money was paid . And then under the earth his carcase was laid . When having gone farther , he chanced to spy , A beautiful creature just going to die ; A young waiting lady that strangled must be , For nothing but striking a Turkish lady . To think of her dying with dread she was fill'd , And rivers of tears like waters distilled . Like a stream or fountain they did flow down Her rosy cheeks , and thence to the ground . Hearing the crime , he to end the strife , Said , What must I give to save her life ? The answer was five hundred pounds ; Which for her pardon he fairly put down . He said , Fair creature , from weeping refain , And be of comfort ; thou shalt not be slave . Behold I have purchase [ ' ] worser thy pardon , wilt thee Consent to go to England with me ? She said , sir , you have freed me from death , I am bound to love you while I have breath . And if you request it , to England I'll go , And my respects to you ever will show . HE brought her to London , and as it's said , He set up housekeeping , and she was his maid , There to wait on him and finding her just With the keys of his riches did her intrust . At length this brave factor was hired once more , To cross the seas where the billows do roar , When into the country he was to steer , Which by her father was govern'd we hear : Being a hight country , this maid did repair To get fine robes for the country wear . He bought a silk waistcoat , which I am told His button holes flower'd with silver and gold , She said to him , Master , I do understand You are going factor unto such a land . And if that prince's court you do enter in , Be sure this flower'd garment be seen . He said , to that prince's court I must go . The meaning of thy words I long for to know . Sir , there art some reasons which you will find . With that he said , I will fulfil thy mind . Then away he sailed , and arrived at the port . The factor came to the emperor's court . It was the usual cust [ oh ] m of the place , To present some noble gift unto his grace . His gift was accepted , and as they stood nigh , On his flower'd garment the prince cast and eye , Which made him colour , and thus he did say , Who flower'd that garment tell me , I pray ? [ P ] lease your grace , my last voyage was to Turkey , Where I saw a damsel so strangled must be , And to save her life I gave five hundred pounds , And took her with me to fair London-town . [ She ] is my housekeeper while I'm in this land , And [ w ] hen of my coming she did understand , [ ? ] worser this robe , giving charge to me , [ That it ] might be seen by your majesty . The prince said , Behold the robe I wear , This of the same colour and sport I declare The maid who worked both is my daughter dear , I have not hear'd of her these two years . For loss of my child whom I thought dead . A well full of tears in my court as been shed . My p [ rincess ] her mother and me cannot rest , Her loss brought a million of sighs from her breast . Thy ship shall be richly laden with speed , And I'll [ ? ] worser a ship for thy convey indeed ; Because that [ ou ] didst save my daughter's life . If thou bring her home she shall be thy wife . And if thou dost not live to bring her to me , The man who brings her shall her bridegroom be . And ten thousand pounds a year he shall have , Therefore be careful her life to save . The ship was laden , and the anchor weig'd , When he and his convoy came over the main . To fair London-city , and home he did go , And gave the princess those tidings to know . H [ e ] said , noble lady , I have good news to tell , The prince your father , and mother are well And your noble parents this thing have designed , In the band of wedlock we both must be join'd . Perhaps , dear princess , you will not agree , To wed with a poor man , especially me , Sir , were you but a beggar I will be your wife . Because : When just dying you saved my life . I ne'er shall forget the true token of love ; [ ? ] to him , Master , I do understand , And [ ? ] e it's to order'd I'm pleased , I vow , And I'm glad my father this thing does allow ; Fell of all the goods you have in store , And give all the money you have to the poor . Come let us be jogging with speed over the main , For I long to see my dear parents again . The thing was done , and they sail'd away , In the ship her father sent for a convoy . But hark what happen'd on the ocean wide , Forto rob the factor of his sweet bride . The captain who carry'd them over the deep . One night as the factor did lie asleep , Being under sail , overboard did him throw , And said , I shall have the princess I know . There happen'd to be a small island at hand . To which he did swim , as we understand ; Where we will leave him awhile for to mourn , And unto the ship again we'll return . Next morning as soon as day light did peep He awaked the princess out of her sleep . And said , Noble princess , the factor's not here , He's fallen over board and drowned I fear . Being arriv'd at the desir'd port , The princess went weeping to her father's court . When both received her with joy and mirth , Saying , Where's the man that free'd you from death ? The captain said , As he was asleep , He fell overboard , and was lost in the deep . You said , the man who her home did bring , Should have her , I hope you'll perform the thing . Yes , that was the promise , the father reply'd ; What sayest thou , will thou be his his bride ? She cried , yes , father , but first , if you please , For him who sav'd me I'll mourn forty days . Then into close mourning this princess she went The loss of her friend with tears did lament ; Where we will leave her to mourn awhile , And turn to the factor , who was on the isle . IN the desert island the factor lay , In floods of tears weeping night and day At length there appeared in his view , A little old man padding in a canoe . The factor called , which made him stay , And drawing near to him , the old man did say , How cam'st thou here I then his eyes did flow , The cause of my sorrow you soon shall know . If thou wilt promise , and be true to me , For to give the first born unto me , When three months old , to the court I'll thee bring , And will not release thee without this thing . The factor consider'd , that would cause grief ; And without it , for him there was no relief , He said . Life is sweet , and my life to save , Bring me to court , thy request thou shalt have . Then he was brought to the palace , and when He came under the gate , he saw the princess there , Peeping out of a window she saw him there , Of all [ ? ] thing [ ? ] Her sorrowing to joy transported were . He unto the court with joy was received , His princess met him , Who for him griev'd , And said , Dear jewel , the joy of my heart , Where hast thou been ; why didst thou depart . Where he had been he soon did relate , And how he came to her father's gate . He said , I was cast overboard in my sleep ; I fancy the captain threw me in the deep . With that the captain was sent for with speed But hearing the factor was come indeed , To show himself guilty , like a cruel knave , He jump'd into the sea , which prov'd his grave . Next day in great joy and [ triumph ] , we find The factor and princess in marriage were join'd And within the compass of two long year They had a son and daughter we hear . The firstborn a son , a perfect beauty , Who was beloved by the whole family When three months old came the man for the child Who released the factor from the desert isle . When the father saw him the tears did flow , Then he gave his father and mother to know , He was forced to make that promise , or to die With hunger , as he in the desert did lie , With a grim look this old man appears , Which made him trmble with great fears , Crying , what shall we do ; this is the man , He will have our darling doe all that we can . He said , This is your promise , I'll have my boy , There's one babe for me , and another for you ; I'll have the firstborn , come give it to me . With that the whole family , wept bitterly : The mother said , I am griev'd to the heart , To think we so soon from our darlings must part . To one who may take it the lord knows where , And perhaps our darling in pieces will tear . Then she embrac'd it , and the tears fell , And having kiss'd it , bid it farewell . Saying , For the sake of my husband and I We part with our firstborn , tho' for it we die . Then the grim ghost to her husband did say , Sir don't you remember in Turkey one day You saw a dead body lying on the ground , And to have it bury'd you gave fifty pound . Sir , I am the spirit of that dead body ; I saved your life for the love shown to me . He said , Keep the child , and the Lord bless you . Then away he vanished out of the hall . So then the kind prince and princess likewise , And the babe's parents , with tears in their eyes With joy embraced their darling son , Crying , Had you left us we had been undone . Now we'll leave the courting and join , To love each other while God gives them breath , And now by the factor we may see indeed , No man can prevent what the fates have agreed . Printed and sold by J. Evans , No. 41 , Long-lane , West-smith [ field ] are , as he in the desert did lie , With a grim look this old man appears , Which made him trmble with great fears , Crying , what shall we do ; this is the man , He will have our darling doe all that we can . He said , This is your promise , I'll have my boy , There's one babe for me , and another for you ; I'll have the firstborn , come give it to me . With that the whole family , wept bitterly : The mother said , I am griev'd to the heart , To think we so soon from our darlings must part . To one who may take it the lord knows where , And perhaps our darling in pieces will tear . Then she embrac'd it , and the tears fell , And having kiss'd it , bid it farewell . Saying , For the sake of my husband and I We part with our firstborn , tho' for it we die . Then the grim ghost to her husband did say , Sir don't you remember in Turkey one day You saw a dead body lying on the ground , And to have it bury'd you gave fifty pound . Sir , I am the spirit of that dead body ; I saved your life for the love shown to me . He said , Keep the child , and the Lord bless you . Then away he vanished out of the hall . So then the kind prince and princess likewise , And the babe's parents , with tears in their eyes With joy embraced their darling son , Crying , Had you left us we had been undone . Now we'll leave the courting and join , To love each other while God gives them breath , And now by the factor we may see indeed , No man can prevent what the fates have agreed . Printed and sold by J. Evans , No. 41 , Long-lane , West-smith [ field ] 