A Pleasant BALLAD of King HENRY the second , and the Miller of Mansfield , and how he was Entertained and Lodged at the Millers House , and of their pleasant Communication . To the Tune of , The French Levalto , etc HEnry our Roil King would ride a hunting , to the green Forest so pleasant and fair , [ To ] have the Heart chased , & dainty Does tripping , unto merry Sherwood , his Nobles repair ; Hawk and Hound was unbound , all things prepar'd , For the same , to the Game , with good regard , All a long Summer's day road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes and Nobles each one , Chasing the heart and hind , and buck gallantly , till the dark evening forced him to turn home : Then at last , riding fast , he had lost quite , All his Lords in the Wood , late in dark Night ; Wandering thus warily all alone up and down , with a rude Miller he met at the las Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham , Sir , quoth the Miller , your way you have los Yet I think what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why what dost think of me , quoth our King merrily , passing thy Judgement upon me so brief ? Good faith , said the Miller , I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman Thief ; Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , Lest that I presently crack thy Knaves Crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , quod the King saying thus , I am a Gentleman and Lodging do lack . Thou hast not , quod the Miller , one Groat in thy Purse , all thy Inheritance hangs on thy back . I have Gold to discharge all that I call , If it be Forty Pence , I will pay all . If thou be'st a True Man , then quoth the Miller , I sware by my Tole-Dish I [ ' ] ll lodge thee all Night . Here's my hand , quoth the King , that was I ever . Nay soft , quoth the Miller , thou may'st be a Spright , Better I [ ' ] ll know thee e'er hands I will take , With none but honest men hands will I shake . Thus they went all along unto the Millers house , where they were seething of Puddings & Souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a House ; Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are . Quoth our King , look your fill , and do not spair . I like thy Countenance , thou hast and honest Face , with my Son Richard this Night thou shalt lie . Quoth his Wife , By my troth it is a handsome Youth , yet it is best Husband for to deal warily : Art thou not a Runaway , prithee Youth tell ? Show me thy Passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently , making low Courtesy , with his Hat in his Hand thus he did say , I have no Passport , nor ever was Servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your Kindless here offered me , I will requite it in every Degree . Then to the Miller his Wife whispered secretly , saying , It seems this Youth's of good Kin , Both by his Apparel , and eke by his Manners , to turn him out , certainly it were a great since . Yea , quoth he , you may see he hath some Grace [ When ] n he does speak to his Betters in Place . Well , quoth the Millers wife , young Man welcome here , and though I say it , well Lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh Straw thou shalt have , laid on thy Bed so brave , good brown Hempon-Sheets likewise , quoth she , Ay , quoth the good Man , and when that is done , You shall lie with no worse than our own Son. Nay first , quoth Richard , Good fellow tell me true , hast thou no Creepers within thy Gay Hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scebbado ? I pray , quoth our King , what things are those ? Art thou not Lousy nor Scabby ? quoth he . If thou be'st , surely thou liest not with me . This caus'd the King suddenly to laugh most heartily ; till the Tears trickled down from his Eyes ; Then to their Supper were they set orderly , with a hight Bag-pudding and good Apple pies ; Nappy Ale good and stale , in a brown Bowl , Which did about the Board merrily troul . Here , quoth the Miller , Good-fellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals' where ever they be . I'll pledge you ( quoth our King ) and thank you heartily for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner I'le drink to your Son. Do so ( quoth Richard ) but quick let it come . Wife ( quoth the Miller ) fetch me forth Lightfoot , that we of his sweetness a little may taste . A fair Venison Pasty then brought she forth presently ; Eat ( quoth the Miller ) but Sir make no waste : Here's dainty Lightfoot in faith ( said our King ) I never before did eat so dainty a thing . I wis ( said Richard ) no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day . In what place ( said our King ) may be bought like to this ? We never pay Penny for it by faith : From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our Kings Deer . Then I think ( said our King ) that it is Venison . Each Fool ( quoth Richard ) full well may see that ; Never are we without two or three under the Roof , very well fleshed and excellent fa But prithee say nothing wherever thou go , We would not for Twopence the King should it know , Doubt not ( then said the King ) my promised secrecy , the King shall never know more on't for me . A Cup of Lambswool they drank to him then , and to their beds they passed presently . The Nobles next morning went all up and down , For to seek out the King in every Town , At last at the Millers house soon they espy'd him plain as he was mounting on his fair Steed , To whom they came presently falling upon their knee , which made the Millers heart woefully bleed ; Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hang'd by the Road : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his Sword and nothing he said , The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his head : But his kind Courtesy for to requite ; Gave him a Living , and made him a Knigh [ tO . ] The Second Part of the King and Miller , showing how he came to Court with his Wife and Son , and what merry Conceits passed between the King and them . WHen as our Royal King came home from Nottingham And with his Nobles at Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , in this late Progress along by the way : Of them all great and small he did protest , The Miller of Mansfield's sport liked him best . And now my Lords , quod the King I am determined against St. George's next a sumptuous feast , That this old Miller our last confirmed Knight , with his Son Richard shall both be my Guess , For in this merriment it is my desire To talk with the jolly Knight and the young Squire . When as the Lords saw the Kings pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their Hearts . A Pursuivant there was sent straight on the business , the which had oftentimes been in those Parts . When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell . God save your Worship , then said the messengers and grant your Lady her hearts desire ; And to your Son Richard good fortune and happiness , that sweet young Gentleman & gallant young Squire Our King greets you all , and thus does say , You must come to the Court on St. George's Day , Therefore in any case fail not to be in place . I wis ( quoth the Miller ) this is and odd Jest ; What should we do there ? he said , faith I am half afraid . I doubt ( quoth Richard ) be hang'd at the least . Nay ( quoth the Messenger ) you do mistake , Our King he provides a great Feast for your sake . Then ( said the Miller ) now by my troth messenger , thou hast contented my Worship full well ; Hold , here's three farthings to quit thy great Gentleness for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell ; Let me see , here's to thee , tell to our King , We'll wait on his Mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many Legs took their Reward : And taking then his leave with great humility , to the King's Court again he repair'd : Showing unto his Grace in each Degree , The Knights most liberal Gift and Bounty . When he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , Here comes expenses and charges indeed , Now we must needs be brave , though we spend all we have , for of new Garments we have great need : Of Horses and Servingmen we must have store , With Bridles and Saddles and twenty things more . Tush , Sir John , quoth his wife , never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more Charges for me , For I will turn and tO A Pleasant BALLAD of King HENRY the second , and the Miller of Mansfield , and how he was Entertained and Lodged at the Millers House , and of their pleasant Communication . To the Tune of , The French Levalto , etc HEnry our Roil King would ride a hunting , to the green Forest so pleasant and fair , [ To ] have the Heart chased , & dainty Does tripping , unto merry Sherwood , his Nobles repair ; Hawk and Hound was unbound , all things prepar'd , For the same , to the Game , with good regard , All a long Summer's day road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes and Nobles each one , Chasing the heart and hind , and buck gallantly , till the dark evening forced him to turn home : Then at last , riding fast , he had lost quite , All his Lords in the Wood , late in dark Night ; Wandering thus warily all alone up and down , with a rude Miller he met at the las Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham , Sir , quoth the Miller , your way you have los Yet I think what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why what dost think of me , quoth our King merrily , passing thy Judgement upon me so brief ? Good faith , said the Miller , I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman Thief ; Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , Lest that I presently crack thy Knaves Crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , quod the King saying thus , I am a Gentleman and Lodging do lack . Thou hast not , quod the Miller , one Groat in thy Purse , all thy Inheritance hangs on thy back . I have Gold to discharge all that I call , If it be Forty Pence , I will pay all . If thou be'st a True Man , then quoth the Miller , I sware by my Tole-Dish I [ ' ] ll lodge thee all Night . Here's my hand , quoth the King , that was I ever . Nay soft , quoth the Miller , thou may'st be a Spright , Better I [ ' ] ll know thee e'er hands I will take , With none but honest men hands will I shake . Thus they went all along unto the Millers house , where they were seething of Puddings & Souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a House ; Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are . Quoth our King , look your fill , and do not spair . I like thy Countenance , thou hast and honest Face , with my Son Richard this Night thou shalt lie . Quoth his Wife , By my troth it is a handsome Youth , yet it is best Husband for to deal warily : Art thou not a Runaway , prithee Youth tell ? Show me thy Passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently , making low Courtesy , with his Hat in his Hand thus he did say , I have no Passport , nor ever was Servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your Kindless here offered me , I will requite it in every Degree . Then to the Miller his Wife whispered secretly , saying , It seems this Youth's of good Kin , Both by his Apparel , and eke by his Manners , to turn him out , certainly it were a great since . Yea , quoth he , you may see he hath some Grace [ When ] n he does speak to his Betters in Place . Well , quoth the Millers wife , young Man welcome here , and though I say it , well Lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh Straw thou shalt have , laid on thy Bed so brave , good brown Hempon-Sheets likewise , quoth she , Ay , quoth the good Man , and when that is done , You shall lie with no worse than our own Son. Nay first , quoth Richard , Good fellow tell me true , hast thou no Creepers within thy Gay Hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scebbado ? I pray , quoth our King , what things are those ? Art thou not Lousy nor Scabby ? quoth he . If thou be'st , surely thou liest not with me . This caus'd the King suddenly to laugh most heartily ; till the Tears trickled down from his Eyes ; Then to their Supper were they set orderly , with a hight Bag-pudding and good Apple pies ; Nappy Ale good and stale , in a brown Bowl , Which did about the Board merrily troul . Here , quoth the Miller , Good-fellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals' where ever they be . I'll pledge you ( quoth our King ) and thank you heartily for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner I'le drink to your Son. Do so ( quoth Richard ) but quick let it come . Wife ( quoth the Miller ) fetch me forth Lightfoot , that we of his sweetness a little may taste . A fair Venison Pasty then brought she forth presently ; Eat ( quoth the Miller ) but Sir make no waste : Here's dainty Lightfoot in faith ( said our King ) I never before did eat so dainty a thing . I wis ( said Richard ) no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day . In what place ( said our King ) may be bought like to this ? We never pay Penny for it by faith : From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our Kings Deer . Then I think ( said our King ) that it is Venison . Each Fool ( quoth Richard ) full well may see that ; Never are we without two or three under the Roof , very well fleshed and excellent fa But prithee say nothing wherever thou go , We would not for Twopence the King should it know , Doubt not ( then said the King ) my promised secrecy , the King shall never know more on't for me . A Cup of Lambswool they drank to him then , and to their beds they passed presently . The Nobles next morning went all up and down , For to seek out the King in every Town , At last at the Millers house soon they espy'd him plain as he was mounting on his fair Steed , To whom they came presently falling upon their knee , which made the Millers heart woefully bleed ; Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hang'd by the Road : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his Sword and nothing he said , The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his head : But his kind Courtesy for to requite ; Gave him a Living , and made him a Knigh [ tO . ] The Second Part of the King and Miller , showing how he came to Court with his Wife and Son , and what merry Conceits passed between the King and them . WHen as our Royal King came home from Nottingham And with his Nobles at Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , in this late Progress along by the way : Of them all great and small he did protest , The Miller of Mansfield's sport liked him best . And now my Lords , quod the King I am determined against St. George's next a sumptuous feast , That this old Miller our last confirmed Knight , with his Son Richard shall both be my Guess , For in this merriment it is my desire To talk with the jolly Knight and the young Squire . When as the Lords saw the Kings pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their Hearts . A Pursuivant there was sent straight on the business , the which had oftentimes been in those Parts . When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell . God save your Worship , then said the messengers and grant your Lady her hearts desire ; And to your Son Richard good fortune and happiness , that sweet young Gentleman & gallant young Squire Our King greets you all , and thus does say , You must come to the Court on St. George's Day , Therefore in any case fail not to be in place . I wis ( quoth the Miller ) this is and odd Jest ; What should we do there ? he said , faith I am half afraid . I doubt ( quoth Richard ) be hang'd at the least . Nay ( quoth the Messenger ) you do mistake , Our King he provides a great Feast for your sake . Then ( said the Miller ) now by my troth messenger , thou hast contented my Worship full well ; Hold , here's three farthings to quit thy great Gentleness for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell ; Let me see , here's to thee , tell to our King , We'll wait on his Mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many Legs took their Reward : And taking then his leave with great humility , to the King's Court again he repair'd : Showing unto his Grace in each Degree , The Knights most liberal Gift and Bounty . When he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , Here comes expenses and charges indeed , Now we must needs be brave , though we spend all we have , for of new Garments we have great need : Of Horses and Servingmen we must have store , With Bridles and Saddles and twenty things more . Tush , Sir John , quoth his wife , never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more Charges for me , For I will turn and trim up my old Russet Gown , with every thing as fine as may be ; And on our Mill-Horses full swift we will ride ; With Pillows and Panels as we shall provide . In this most stately-sort road they unto the Court , Their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap a Cocks feather in his Cap , and so they jetted down towards [ the King's Hall ] The merry old Miller with his [ hands on his side ] His wife like Maid mar [ rian did mince at that tide , ] The King and his Nobles that herd of his coming , meeting this gallant Knight with his brave train , Welcome Sir Knight quoth he , with this your gay Lady , good Sir John Cockle once welcome again ; And so is this Squire of Cograge so free . Quoth Dick , Abbots on you , do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , how should I forget thee ? thou wast my own Bedfellow well that I woe But I think of a trick , tell me that prithee Dick , how thou with farting didst make the Bed hight ? Thou Whoreson happy Knave , then quoth the Knight , Speak cleanly to our King , or else go shite . The King and his Courtiers heartily laughed at this , while the King took them both by the hand ; With Ladies and their Maids , like to the Queen of Spades , the Millers wife did so orderly stand ; A Milkmaid's Courtesy at every word , And down the Folks were set at the Sideboard : Where the King royally in Princely Majesty sat at his Dinner with joy and delight ; When they had eaten well , to jesting then they fell , taking a bowl of Wine drank to the Knigh Here's to you both , he said , in Wine , Ale and Beer , Thanking you all for your Country Cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle , I'le pledge you a Pottle , were it the best Ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said our King , I do think of a thing , some of your Lightfoot I would we had here , Ho , ho , quoth Richard , full well may I say it , 'Tis Knavery to eat , and then to betray it . Why art thou angry ? quoth our King merrily , in faith I take it very unkind ; I thought thou wouldst pledge me in Ale and Wine heartily , You're like to stay , quoth Dick , till I have din'd , You feed us with twatling Dishes so small , Zounds a Black pudding is better than all . Ay marry , quoth our King , that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to ea With that Dick arose , and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his Arse began for to sweat ; The King made a proffer to snatch it away , 'Tis meat for your Master , good Sir you must stay , Thus in great merriment was the time wholly spent , and then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent unto this practice the King did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , The Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache : Many thanks for their pains did the King give them , asking young Richard if he would be wed , Among these Ladies free , tell me which liketh thee ; Quoth he , Jug Grumbol with the read Head , She's my love , she's my life , she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her Maides-head . Then Sir John Cockle the King call'd unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him Overseer , And gave him out of hand three hundred pound yearly And now take heed you steal no more of my Deer , And [ oh ] nce a Quarter let's here have your View , And thus Sir John Chokle I bid you ] adi [ eu . ] rim up my old Russet Gown , with every thing as fine as may be ; And on our Mill-Horses full swift we will ride ; With Pillows and Panels as we shall provide . In this most stately-sort road they unto the Court , Their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap a Cocks feather in his Cap , and so they jetted down towards [ the King's Hall ] The merry old Miller with his [ hands on his side ] His wife like Maid mar [ rian did mince at that tide , ] The King and his Nobles that herd of his coming , meeting this gallant Knight with his brave train , Welcome Sir Knight quoth he , with this your gay Lady , good Sir John Cockle once welcome again ; And so is this Squire of Cograge so free . Quoth Dick , Abbots on you , do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , how should I forget thee ? thou wast my own Bedfellow well that I woe But I think of a trick , tell me that prithee Dick , how thou with farting didst make the Bed hight ? Thou Whoreson happy Knave , then quoth the Knight , Speak cleanly to our King , or else go shite . The King and his Courtiers heartily laughed at this , while the King took them both by the hand ; With Ladies and their Maids , like to the Queen of Spades , the Millers wife did so orderly stand ; A Milkmaid's Courtesy at every word , And down the Folks were set at the Sideboard : Where the King royally in Princely Majesty sat at his Dinner with joy and delight ; When they had eaten well , to jesting then they fell , taking a bowl of Wine drank to the Knigh Here's to you both , he said , in Wine , Ale and Beer , Thanking you all for your Country Cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle , I'le pledge you a Pottle , were it the best Ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said our King , I do think of a thing , some of your Lightfoot I would we had here , Ho , ho , quoth Richard , full well may I say it , 'Tis Knavery to eat , and then to betray it . Why art thou angry ? quoth our King merrily , in faith I take it very unkind ; I thought thou wouldst pledge me in Ale and Wine heartily , You're like to stay , quoth Dick , till I have din'd , You feed us with twatling Dishes so small , Zounds a Black pudding is better than all . Ay marry , quoth our King , that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to ea With that Dick arose , and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his Arse began for to sweat ; The King made a proffer to snatch it away , 'Tis meat for your Master , good Sir you must stay , Thus in great merriment was the time wholly spent , and then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent unto this practice the King did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , The Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache : Many thanks for their pains did the King give them , asking young Richard if he would be wed , Among these Ladies free , tell me which liketh thee ; Quoth he , Jug Grumbol with the read Head , She's my love , she's my life , she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her Maides-head . Then Sir John Cockle the King call'd unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him Overseer , And gave him out of hand three hundred pound yearly And now take heed you steal no more of my Deer , And [ oh ] nce a Quarter let's here have your View , And thus Sir John Chokle I bid you ] adi [ eu . ] 