The Bristol Bridegroom ; OR THE Ship-Carpenter's Love to the Mere - chant's Daughter . YOU loyal lovers all draw near , A true relation you shall hear , Of a young couple who prov'd to be A pattern of true loyalty . A merchant did in Bristol dwell , As many people know full well ; He had a daughter of beauty bright , In whom he plac'd his heart's delight . He had no child but only she , Her father lov'd her tenderly Many to court her thither came , Gallants of worth , birth , and fame . Yet notwithstanding all their love , A young ship-carpenter did prove To be the master of her heart , She often said , We'll never part . As long as life and breath remain , Your company I'll not refrain ; No cursed gold or silver bright Shall make me wrong my heart's delight . Now when her father came to know , His daughter lov'd this young man so , He caus'd her to be sent to sea , To keep her from his company , Which when his daughter came to hear , Without the thought of dread or fear , She dressed himself in seaman's hue , And after him she did pursue . Unto the Captain she did go , And said , Right worthy sir , 'tis so , You do want men , I understand , I'm free to fight with heart and hand . The Captain straightway did reply , Young man you're welcome heartily ; One guinea in her hand he gave , She passed for a seaman brave . Soon after this the ship did sail , And with a fair and pleasant gale ; But the ship-carpenter her dear , Did little think his love so near . She then appeared for to be A person of no mean degree ; With pretty fingers long and strait , She soon became the surgeon's mate . [ PART II ] It happened so that this same ship , A storming of the town of Dieppe , She lay at anchor something nigh , Where the cannon balls did fly . Then the first man that wounded were , Was this young bold ship carpenter : When drums beatrice and trumpets found , He in his breast receiv'd a wound . Then to the surgeon's care was he Brought down with speed immediately , Whereas the pretty surgeon's mate Did courteously upon him wait . She dressed the wounded dismal part , Although the sighed did pierce her heart ; Yet she did use her utmost skill To cure him with a right good will . She cur'd him in a little space , He often gaz'd upon her face ; Surgeon , said he , such eyes as thine Did formerly my heart entwine : If ever I live to go on shore , And she be dead whom I adore , I will thy true companion be , And ne'er forsake thy company . If she be dead this will I do , To the female sex I'll bid adieu , And ne'er will marry for her sake , But to the seas myself betake . PART III . THE merchant's daughter of Bristol who To her love prov'd just and true , When many storms were overblown She to her love herself made known . The season of the year being passed , The ship was homeward bound at last , When into harbour she did get , The seamen all on shore were set ; But yet of all the whole ships crew , There's not a soul among them knew That they a woman had so near , Until she told it to her dear . To whom these words she did unfold , Not long ago , cries she , you told Me plainly that such eyes as mine , Did formerly your heart entwine . Then without any more ado , Into his arms she straightway flew , And cries , My love , thou art my own , This have I done for thee alone . His heart was touch'd with joy likewise , When as the tears stood in his eyes ; [ He said , Thou hast a valiant heart , ] And hath performed a true love's part . Therefore without any more delay , He dressed her like a lady gay , So then they marry'd were with speed , As formerly they had agreed . PART IIII . THEN to her father's house he went , And found him in much discontent ; He asked for his daught [ e ] r dear , Which pierc'd her father's heart to hear . He with a mournful sighs reply'd , I wish she had in her cradle dy'd , Then I should have seen my darling's death When she had yielded up her breath . But now I ne'er shall see her more , My jewel whom I still adore , Oh most unhappy man was I , To part her from your company . Had I a kingdom now in store , Nay , had I that and ten times more , I'd part with all her face to see , Daughter , would I had dy'd for thee . The young man hearing what he said , Reply'd , Your daughter is not dead , For you within and hour's space , Shall surely see your daughter's face . He road as fast as he could high , And fetch'd her home immediately , He set her in her father's hall , Where on her knees she strait did fallen . The old man was with joy possessed , His daughter then he kissed and blessed , Thrice welcome home art thou to me , Once more my jewel from the sea . To him the truth she did relate , And how she had been the surgeon's mate ; Then did he smile and was most glad , And gave them all that e'er he had . She that was seaman and surgeon's mate , Reserved by the hand of fate , She now is made a lawful wife , And lives free from care and strife . Young lovers all a pattern take , When you a solemn contract make , Stand to the same whate'er betide , As did this faithful loving bride . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The Bristol Bridegroom ; OR THE Ship-Carpenter's Love to the Mere - chant's Daughter . YOU loyal lovers all draw near , A true relation you shall hear , Of a young couple who prov'd to be A pattern of true loyalty . A merchant did in Bristol dwell , As many people know full well ; He had a daughter of beauty bright , In whom he plac'd his heart's delight . He had no child but only she , Her father lov'd her tenderly Many to court her thither came , Gallants of worth , birth , and fame . Yet notwithstanding all their love , A young ship-carpenter did prove To be the master of her heart , She often said , We'll never part . As long as life and breath remain , Your company I'll not refrain ; No cursed gold or silver bright Shall make me wrong my heart's delight . Now when her father came to know , His daughter lov'd this young man so , He caus'd her to be sent to sea , To keep her from his company , Which when his daughter came to hear , Without the thought of dread or fear , She dressed himself in seaman's hue , And after him she did pursue . Unto the Captain she did go , And said , Right worthy sir , 'tis so , You do want men , I understand , I'm free to fight with heart and hand . The Captain straightway did reply , Young man you're welcome heartily ; One guinea in her hand he gave , She passed for a seaman brave . Soon after this the ship did sail , And with a fair and pleasant gale ; But the ship-carpenter her dear , Did little think his love so near . She then appeared for to be A person of no mean degree ; With pretty fingers long and strait , She soon became the surgeon's mate . [ PART II ] It happened so that this same ship , A storming of the town of Dieppe , She lay at anchor something nigh , Where the cannon balls did fly . Then the first man that wounded were , Was this young bold ship carpenter : When drums beatrice and trumpets found , He in his breast receiv'd a wound . Then to the surgeon's care was he Brought down with speed immediately , Whereas the pretty surgeon's mate Did courteously upon him wait . She dressed the wounded dismal part , Although the sighed did pierce her heart ; Yet she did use her utmost skill To cure him with a right good will . She cur'd him in a little space , He often gaz'd upon her face ; Surgeon , said he , such eyes as thine Did formerly my heart entwine : If ever I live to go on shore , And she be dead whom I adore , I will thy true companion be , And ne'er forsake thy company . If she be dead this will I do , To the female sex I'll bid adieu , And ne'er will marry for her sake , But to the seas myself betake . PART III . THE merchant's daughter of Bristol who To her love prov'd just and true , When many storms were overblown She to her love herself made known . The season of the year being passed , The ship was homeward bound at last , When into harbour she did get , The seamen all on shore were set ; But yet of all the whole ships crew , There's not a soul among them knew That they a woman had so near , Until she told it to her dear . To whom these words she did unfold , Not long ago , cries she , you told Me plainly that such eyes as mine , Did formerly your heart entwine . Then without any more ado , Into his arms she straightway flew , And cries , My love , thou art my own , This have I done for thee alone . His heart was touch'd with joy likewise , When as the tears stood in his eyes ; [ He said , Thou hast a valiant heart , ] And hath performed a true love's part . Therefore without any more delay , He dressed her like a lady gay , So then they marry'd were with speed , As formerly they had agreed . PART IIII . THEN to her father's house he went , And found him in much discontent ; He asked for his daught [ e ] r dear , Which pierc'd her father's heart to hear . He with a mournful sighs reply'd , I wish she had in her cradle dy'd , Then I should have seen my darling's death When she had yielded up her breath . But now I ne'er shall see her more , My jewel whom I still adore , Oh most unhappy man was I , To part her from your company . Had I a kingdom now in store , Nay , had I that and ten times more , I'd part with all her face to see , Daughter , would I had dy'd for thee . The young man hearing what he said , Reply'd , Your daughter is not dead , For you within and hour's space , Shall surely see your daughter's face . He road as fast as he could high , And fetch'd her home immediately , He set her in her father's hall , Where on her knees she strait did fallen . The old man was with joy possessed , His daughter then he kissed and blessed , Thrice welcome home art thou to me , Once more my jewel from the sea . To him the truth she did relate , And how she had been the surgeon's mate ; Then did he smile and was most glad , And gave them all that e'er he had . She that was seaman and surgeon's mate , Reserved by the hand of fate , She now is made a lawful wife , And lives free from care and strife . Young lovers all a pattern take , When you a solemn contract make , Stand to the same whate'er betide , As did this faithful loving bride . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 