a And excellent new PLAY-HOUSE SONG , Call'd The bonny Grey-Ey'd Morn Or Jockey Rous'd with Love . THe bonny gray Ey'd morn began to peep , When Jockey rous'd with Love came blithely on And I who wishing lay depriv'd of sleep , Abhor'd the lazy hours that slow did run . But muckle were my joy when in my view , I from the window spy'd my only dear . I took the wings of love ; and to to him flew , Or I had fancy'd all my Heav'n was there . Upon my bosom Jockey laid his head And sighing told me pretty tales of Love My yielding Heart at every word he said , Did flutter up and down and strangely move : He sighing kiss'd my Hand and vow'd and swore That I had over his Heart a Conquest gain'd , Then blushing beg that I would grant him more Which he alas too soon , too soon obtain'd Not that I do repent I did comply But this I needs must own , my yielding Heart Was quickly overcome by Jockys Eye Which gave a deeper wound then Cupids dart , His Cheeks were Cherry read his Lips the same His Tongue so many Charms could still express That e'ry word he said did raise new Flame And kindled , kindled Fire in my breast . My Jockey does a thousand ways beside Express himself in tender love to me , With arms about waist he sighing cry'd O give me thy consent or I'm must dee : Then with a gentle Kiss does beg again That his poor wounded Heart I would but cure Not thinking that I felt his love sick pain , For I alas was his , was his before . And now I could no longer hide my Pain , But let my dearest Jockey know my Heart , O how he hug'd me in his arms again , And every Kiss he gave did ease my Smart , Then vowing o're and o're betwixt each Kiss He constant would remain while life did last , Now tell me lovers , where's the hurt of this , For to enjoy when that the Knots ty'd fast . FINIS . a And excellent new PLAY-HOUSE SONG , Call'd The bonny Grey-Ey'd Morn Or Jockey Rous'd with Love . THe bonny gray Ey'd morn began to peep , When Jockey rous'd with Love came blithely on And I who wishing lay depriv'd of sleep , Abhor'd the lazy hours that slow did run . But muckle were my joy when in my view , I from the window spy'd my only dear . I took the wings of love ; and to to him flew , Or I had fancy'd all my Heav'n was there . Upon my bosom Jockey laid his head And sighing told me pretty tales of Love My yielding Heart at every word he said , Did flutter up and down and strangely move : He sighing kiss'd my Hand and vow'd and swore That I had over his Heart a Conquest gain'd , Then blushing beg that I would grant him more Which he alas too soon , too soon obtain'd Not that I do repent I did comply But this I needs must own , my yielding Heart Was quickly overcome by Jockys Eye Which gave a deeper wound then Cupids dart , His Cheeks were Cherry read his Lips the same His Tongue so many Charms could still express That e'ry word he said did raise new Flame And kindled , kindled Fire in my breast . My Jockey does a thousand ways beside Express himself in tender love to me , With arms about waist he sighing cry'd O give me thy consent or I'm must dee : Then with a gentle Kiss does beg again That his poor wounded Heart I would but cure Not thinking that I felt his love sick pain , For I alas was his , was his before . And now I could no longer hide my Pain , But let my dearest Jockey know my Heart , O how he hug'd me in his arms again , And every Kiss he gave did ease my Smart , Then vowing o're and o're betwixt each Kiss He constant would remain while life did last , Now tell me lovers , where's the hurt of this , For to enjoy when that the Knots ty'd fast . FINIS . 