a CHRIST compared to and Appletree . I . THE tree of life my soul hath seen , Laden with fruit , and always green ; The trees of nature fruitless be , Compar'd with Christ the Appletree . II His Beauty does all things excel , By faith I know , but ne'er can tell , The glory which I now can see , In Jesus Christ the Appletree . III . For happiness I long have sought , And pleasures dearly have I bought ; I miss'd of all , but now I see , 'Tis found in Christ the Appletree . IV. I'm weary'd with my former toil , But here I'll fit and rest awhile , Under the shadow I would be , Of Jesus Christ the Appletree . V. With great delight I'll make my stay , There's none shall fright my soul away , Among the sons of Men I see , There's none like Christ the Appletree . VI . I'll fit and eat his fruit divine , Which cheers my heart like sprightly wine , Oh! now the fruit is sweet to me , Which grows on Christ the Appletree . VII . This fruit does make my soul to thrive , And keep my dying faith alive ; Which makes my soul in haste to be , With Jesus Christ the Appletree . a CHRIST compared to and Appletree . I . THE tree of life my soul hath seen , Laden with fruit , and always green ; The trees of nature fruitless be , Compar'd with Christ the Appletree . II His Beauty does all things excel , By faith I know , but ne'er can tell , The glory which I now can see , In Jesus Christ the Appletree . III . For happiness I long have sought , And pleasures dearly have I bought ; I miss'd of all , but now I see , 'Tis found in Christ the Appletree . IV. I'm weary'd with my former toil , But here I'll fit and rest awhile , Under the shadow I would be , Of Jesus Christ the Appletree . V. With great delight I'll make my stay , There's none shall fright my soul away , Among the sons of Men I see , There's none like Christ the Appletree . VI . I'll fit and eat his fruit divine , Which cheers my heart like sprightly wine , Oh! now the fruit is sweet to me , Which grows on Christ the Appletree . VII . This fruit does make my soul to thrive , And keep my dying faith alive ; Which makes my soul in haste to be , With Jesus Christ the Appletree . 