Two-penny-worth of Wit For a PENNY : OR , The Bad Husband Turn'd Thrifty , This Man that wrought his own decay , And spent his Money night and day ; Is turn'd so saving I do Swear , There's few that with him can compare : And lives so Civil in his ways , That all his Neighbours give him Praise ; And does Repent his wicked Crime , And desires Good Fellows to turn in time ; There's many a Man Runs himself clear out , When Ale's in his Head , then Wit is out . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . ALL Company-Keepers come hear what I say , Here's a Notable Song if you please for to stay , It will Learn you good counsel , be rul'd by a Friend , If you go to and Alehouse your money to spend : For fourpence or Sixpence , you may spend I do say , If you call any higher it's all thrown away ; Then Barnaby will begin for to work in your head , There's many does forget that their Children want Bred . Observe a good hour and lose not your time , If you meet with a friend that you needs must go drink , I desire you to take this counsel of mine , Keep wit in your Noddle and your Pockets some Chink : Then your wife will be pleased , your Children glad , And a great deal of comfort there will be to be had : But if you spend all your money and make yourself poor , Then your Rend will be wanting you'l be turn'd out of door . To see some men when they are god full of Drink , What a Beastly condition it is we may think , That they hardly can know one man from another , They abuse their best friends if it were their own Brother : They'l tumble i'th dirt , and they'l stagger i'th street , And affront e'ry man and woman they meet , That when they are sober will scorn to do so , For they hardly can know their friend from their Foe . For I my own self have been in the same way , And wasted my money by night and by day , And never did think how my Children was serv'd , Till neighbours did say that they almost were starv'd : If my wife chance to say that any thing she did lack , I would call her base whore , and be sure pay her back : That was the best comfort I could her afford , Then I out to the Alehouse , and spend like a Lord . I sold all my goods , and I wasted my store , And at the long run I was grown very poor , A hundred and fifty good pounds I have spent , As long as any was left I could not be conten My Hostess she would be so merry with me , When I call'd in for Liquour and paid for't too free , And with slavering and Kissing she pleas'd me to 'th life , Thus I like a villain , did wrong my poor wife . At last I consider'd , and did think in my mind , How to my own family I had been too unkind , Which troubles my conscience to think on the same , That with drinking and swilling I was much to blame ; My Children was bore and hard they did fare , And I of their Misery never took care , But now I'le begin for to live a new life , And take pains to maintain both my Children and wife . For I to the alehouse have been too kind , Which to my undoing I plainly do find , My poor little children are fallen into want , Which grieves me to see them , full soar I repent , That I had such fortune for to be so led , With drunken Companions which caus'd me be bad , But he runs a long Raze , that ne'r has and end , I'le make much of my money that God does me send . I'le be careful of my Children and make much of my wife , And provide meat and drink for to preserve their life , That little that's left I hope to make it more , With taking of pains , and with working full soar : And alewives go hang themselves with what they have god , No more of my Money shall fallen to their Lot ; I have sow'd my wild Oats , and I will have a care , Of drunken Companions that made me so bore . It is a brave thing when a winter comes cold , To have something in store , with that a man may be bold , Either Land men or Seamen what ever they be ; All young men consider , be ruled by me , For Hostesses and tap houses will fill you no Beer , No longer then your money holds out you may swear , For I my own self now do find it too true , Which makes me to speak , for what I spent I do rue . Since I took a good course and forsaken the bad , With my wife and my Children there is enough to be had , But while I kept drinking and losing my time , All my whole Household was ready to pine : But it is a long day that ne'r has and end , Therefore all good-fellows be ruled by a Friend , keep money in your pockets and good clothes to your back , Drink to do your selves good , but take heed of a Crack . Now in the Conclusion , that man is well blessed , That lives sober , and quietly , and foregoes Drunkenness , He never will be out of reason with his wife , If God give him a blessing he's free from all strife , It is a brave thing if a Man do take pains , If he works ne'r so hard if he bring home the gains ; Therefore take this counsel I pray you of mine , It's a penny well bestow'd , he that takes up in time . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , Two-penny-worth of Wit For a PENNY : OR , The Bad Husband Turn'd Thrifty , This Man that wrought his own decay , And spent his Money night and day ; Is turn'd so saving I do Swear , There's few that with him can compare : And lives so Civil in his ways , That all his Neighbours give him Praise ; And does Repent his wicked Crime , And desires Good Fellows to turn in time ; There's many a Man Runs himself clear out , When Ale's in his Head , then Wit is out . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . ALL Company-Keepers come hear what I say , Here's a Notable Song if you please for to stay , It will Learn you good counsel , be rul'd by a Friend , If you go to and Alehouse your money to spend : For fourpence or Sixpence , you may spend I do say , If you call any higher it's all thrown away ; Then Barnaby will begin for to work in your head , There's many does forget that their Children want Bred . Observe a good hour and lose not your time , If you meet with a friend that you needs must go drink , I desire you to take this counsel of mine , Keep wit in your Noddle and your Pockets some Chink : Then your wife will be pleased , your Children glad , And a great deal of comfort there will be to be had : But if you spend all your money and make yourself poor , Then your Rend will be wanting you'l be turn'd out of door . To see some men when they are god full of Drink , What a Beastly condition it is we may think , That they hardly can know one man from another , They abuse their best friends if it were their own Brother : They'l tumble i'th dirt , and they'l stagger i'th street , And affront e'ry man and woman they meet , That when they are sober will scorn to do so , For they hardly can know their friend from their Foe . For I my own self have been in the same way , And wasted my money by night and by day , And never did think how my Children was serv'd , Till neighbours did say that they almost were starv'd : If my wife chance to say that any thing she did lack , I would call her base whore , and be sure pay her back : That was the best comfort I could her afford , Then I out to the Alehouse , and spend like a Lord . I sold all my goods , and I wasted my store , And at the long run I was grown very poor , A hundred and fifty good pounds I have spent , As long as any was left I could not be conten My Hostess she would be so merry with me , When I call'd in for Liquour and paid for't too free , And with slavering and Kissing she pleas'd me to 'th life , Thus I like a villain , did wrong my poor wife . At last I consider'd , and did think in my mind , How to my own family I had been too unkind , Which troubles my conscience to think on the same , That with drinking and swilling I was much to blame ; My Children was bore and hard they did fare , And I of their Misery never took care , But now I'le begin for to live a new life , And take pains to maintain both my Children and wife . For I to the alehouse have been too kind , Which to my undoing I plainly do find , My poor little children are fallen into want , Which grieves me to see them , full soar I repent , That I had such fortune for to be so led , With drunken Companions which caus'd me be bad , But he runs a long Raze , that ne'r has and end , I'le make much of my money that God does me send . I'le be careful of my Children and make much of my wife , And provide meat and drink for to preserve their life , That little that's left I hope to make it more , With taking of pains , and with working full soar : And alewives go hang themselves with what they have god , No more of my Money shall fallen to their Lot ; I have sow'd my wild Oats , and I will have a care , Of drunken Companions that made me so bore . It is a brave thing when a winter comes cold , To have something in store , with that a man may be bold , Either Land men or Seamen what ever they be ; All young men consider , be ruled by me , For Hostesses and tap houses will fill you no Beer , No longer then your money holds out you may swear , For I my own self now do find it too true , Which makes me to speak , for what I spent I do rue . Since I took a good course and forsaken the bad , With my wife and my Children there is enough to be had , But while I kept drinking and losing my time , All my whole Household was ready to pine : But it is a long day that ne'r has and end , Therefore all good-fellows be ruled by a Friend , keep money in your pockets and good clothes to your back , Drink to do your selves good , but take heed of a Crack . Now in the Conclusion , that man is well blessed , That lives sober , and quietly , and foregoes Drunkenness , He never will be out of reason with his wife , If God give him a blessing he's free from all strife , It is a brave thing if a Man do take pains , If he works ne'r so hard if he bring home the gains ; Therefore take this counsel I pray you of mine , It's a penny well bestow'd , he that takes up in time . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , 