The Seaman's adieu to his pretty BETTY : Living near WAPPING ; OR , A Pattern of true Love , etc Sweet William to the Seas was pressed , and left his Love behind ; While she her sorrows oft expressed and blam'd the fates unkind . To the Tune of , Tender hearts , etc SWeet William and pretty Betty , They were loving , kind , and pretty ; none alive could be more true , Yet at last ; how they was crossed , in brief I will declare to you . He aboard was then commanded , By no means he could withstand it , she was left with grief on shore ; Discontented , she lamented , for the loss of him therefore . Quod he , my dearest , cease thy weeping Heavens have thee still in keeping , for if I return alive ; Here is my hand , by Sea and Land , no creature shall my Love deprive . Thus with sighs and tears they parted She to him was Loyal hearted , but her tears could not prevail ; She was left , of Joy bereft , for then the Ship was under Sail . But alas ! Tempestuous Weather , Wind and Rain , & Storms together , thus the raging Seas did roar ; Quoth he , my dear , I greatly fear , that I shall never see thee more . Thus the Claps of roaring Thunder , Rais'd the waves to all Men's wonder they were cast upon the Sand ; The Ship was lost , and they was crossed they being many Leagues from Land. Thus their goodly Ship staved , Nothing that they had was saved but the lives of only three ; We on shore , may grieve therefore , to think of their Extremity . While their grief they were expressing Heavens now does send a blessing , for a Ship that Sailed by , Which did see them , and did free them from that woeful Distany . They were bound for London City , Where they found his true loves pity , thus they did declare indeed ; That William he , was in the Sea , which made her very heart to bleed . O my dearest Love , she cried , Would I for thy sake had died , thou ly'st ruling in the Sea ; Hear my Ditty , Lovers pity , can you now forbear to weep ? O you Rocks and Waves so cruel , You have rob'd me of my Jewel , you have god my hearts delight ; Oh come seize me Death , and ease me , thus she cried day and night . Then the Messenger came creeping , All her friends was round her weeping seeing of her Misery ; Then she cried , as she died , love I long to be with thee . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guiltspur-street . The Seaman's adieu to his pretty BETTY : Living near WAPPING ; OR , A Pattern of true Love , etc Sweet William to the Seas was pressed , and left his Love behind ; While she her sorrows oft expressed and blam'd the fates unkind . To the Tune of , Tender hearts , etc SWeet William and pretty Betty , They were loving , kind , and pretty ; none alive could be more true , Yet at last ; how they was crossed , in brief I will declare to you . He aboard was then commanded , By no means he could withstand it , she was left with grief on shore ; Discontented , she lamented , for the loss of him therefore . Quod he , my dearest , cease thy weeping Heavens have thee still in keeping , for if I return alive ; Here is my hand , by Sea and Land , no creature shall my Love deprive . Thus with sighs and tears they parted She to him was Loyal hearted , but her tears could not prevail ; She was left , of Joy bereft , for then the Ship was under Sail . But alas ! Tempestuous Weather , Wind and Rain , & Storms together , thus the raging Seas did roar ; Quoth he , my dear , I greatly fear , that I shall never see thee more . Thus the Claps of roaring Thunder , Rais'd the waves to all Men's wonder they were cast upon the Sand ; The Ship was lost , and they was crossed they being many Leagues from Land. Thus their goodly Ship staved , Nothing that they had was saved but the lives of only three ; We on shore , may grieve therefore , to think of their Extremity . While their grief they were expressing Heavens now does send a blessing , for a Ship that Sailed by , Which did see them , and did free them from that woeful Distany . They were bound for London City , Where they found his true loves pity , thus they did declare indeed ; That William he , was in the Sea , which made her very heart to bleed . O my dearest Love , she cried , Would I for thy sake had died , thou ly'st ruling in the Sea ; Hear my Ditty , Lovers pity , can you now forbear to weep ? O you Rocks and Waves so cruel , You have rob'd me of my Jewel , you have god my hearts delight ; Oh come seize me Death , and ease me , thus she cried day and night . Then the Messenger came creeping , All her friends was round her weeping seeing of her Misery ; Then she cried , as she died , love I long to be with thee . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guiltspur-street . 