The KING and NORTHERN MAN . Showing how a poor Northumberland Man , Tenant to the King , was wrong'd by a Lawyer ; how the poor Man went to the King and made known his Grievance . TO drive away the weary day , A book I chanced to take in hand : And therein I read assuredly , A story as you shall understand . Perusing many a history over , among the Leaves I chanced to view , The Books name and Title is this , The second Lesson too good to be true . There read I of a Northumberland Man ; That was born and bred up in the kings own land He paid twenty shillings rend a year To the king as I do understand . By him there dwelled a Lawyer false , That with his farm he was not conten But over the poor man still hang'd his Nose , Because he did gather the King's Rend . He told him he his Lease had forfeit , And that he must there no longer abide : The King by such loons had much wrong done And for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man prayed him for to cease , And content himself if he would be willing ; And pick no vantage in my Lease , And I shall give thee forty shilling . It's neither forty shilling nor forty pound , I'm warrant thee can agree thee and me ; Unless thou yield me thy Farm so round , And stand unto my courtesy . The poor man said , I may not do so , My wife and bairns will make ill work , If thou with my Farm wilt let me go , Thou seem'st a good fellow , I'm give thee 5 mark . The Lawyer he would not be so content , But further in the matter he means to smell ; The Neighbours bade the poor man provide his rend And make submission to the King himself . He god and humble staff , on his back , A Jerkin I wot that was gray : With a good blue Bonnet he thought it no lack , To the King he is ganging as fast as may be . He had not gone a mile out of the Town , But one of his Neighbours he did espy ; How far is it to the King , for thither I am bound As fast as I can high . I am sorry for you Neighbour he said , For your simplicity I make moan ; I'm warrant you , you may ask for the King , When nine or ten days Journey you have gone . Had I wist the King had gone so far , I'm ne'er sought him a mile out of the town ; He's either sought me , or we had ne'er come near At home I had rather spent a Crown . But when he came to the City of London , Of every man he for the King did call , They told him he need not fear , For the King he lies now at the White Hall . And with spying of Earls in the City , Because he had never been there before : He lay so long abed the next day , The court was removed to Windsor that morn . You have lain too long then said the host , You have lion too long by a great while , The King he is now to Windsor gone , He's further gone by twenty mile I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , I [ f ] I had been wise I might had consider ; Belike the King of me he's got some Note , He had ne'er gone away had not I come hither . He fled not for you then said his Host , But high you to Windsor as fast as you may ; Be sure it will requite your cost , For look what is passed the King will pay . But when he came to Windsor Castle , With his humble staff on his back . Altho' the Gates wide open stood , He laid laid on them till he made them crack , Why stay , pray friend art mad ? quoth the Porter What makes thee keep this stir today ? Why I am a Tenant of the Kings , Who have a message to him to say ; The King has Men enough ssid the Porter . Your Message well that they can say ; Why there is ne'er a knave that the king does keep Shall ken my secret mind today . I were told e'er I came from home , E'er I god hither it would be dear bought ; Let me in , Ilse give thee a single penny , I see thou ha' small e'er thou do it for nought , Gramercy , said the Porter then , Thy reward is so great I cannot say nay . Yonder's a Nobleman within the Court , I'll first hear wbat he will say . When the Porter came to the Nobleman , He said he would show him pretty sport ; There's sike a Clown came to the Gate , As came not these seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves the King does keep , He raps at the Gate and makes a great din : He's passing liberal of Reward . He'd give a good single Penny to be let in . Let him in then said the Nobleman , Come in Fellow the Porter did say , If thou come within thyself he said Thy Staff behind the Gate must stay , And this Cuckold's Cur may lig behind , What a Devil what a Cur thou hast god with thee The King will take him up for his own self , I'm warrant when he does him see . Beshrew thy Limbs , then said the poor man , Thou may count me Fool or worse , I wot not what Bankrupt lies by the King , For want of Money may pick my Purse . Let him in with his staff and his dog said the lord , He gave a nod with's head and bow with's knee If you be sir King then said the poor man , As I can very well think you be . For I was told e'er I came from home , You're the goodliest man that e'er I saw before , With so many Jingle Jangles about ones neck , As is about yours I ne'er saw none . I am not the King said the Nobleman , Fellow , though I have a proud Coat ; If you ben't the King help me to the speech of him You seem a good Fellow , I'm give thee a Groat . Gramercy said the Nobleman , Thy reward is so great I can't say nay ; I'll know the King's pleasure if I can , Till I come again be sure you stay . Here's sike a staying said the poor man , Belike the Kings better then any in our country I might ha' gone to the farthest nuke o' the house Neither Lad nor Lass to trouble me . When the Nobleman came to the King , He said he would show his Grace good sport ; Here's such a Clown came to the Gate , As came not these seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves your Highness does keep , And more than that he tells them worse ; He'll not come in without his Staff and his Dog , For fear some Bankrupt should pick his purse . Let him said the King with his Staff and Dog , That of his sport we may see some ; We'll see how he'll handle every point , As soon as our match of Bowls is done . The Nobleman led him thro' many a Room , And through many a Gallery gay : What a de'il does the King with so many houses That he gets them not fill'd with Corn and Hay . At last they 'spyed the King in a Garden , Yet from his Game he did not start ; The Day was so hight he cast off his Doublet , He had nothing from his Waste but his Shirt . Lo yonder's the King said the Nobleman , Behold Fellow , lo yonder he goes ; I believe he's some Unthrift said the poor Man ; That has lost his Money and pawn'd his Clothes But when he came before the King , The Nobleman made his courtisie , The poor Man followed after him , Gave a Nod with his Head and a bend with his knee If you be the Sir King then said the poor Man , As I can hardly think you be , He is a good Fellow that brought me hither , More likely to be a King than thee I am the King his Grace now said , Fellow let me thy case understand ; If you be Sir King , I'm a Tenant of yours , That was born and brought up in your own Land. There dwells a Lawyer hard by me , And a fault with my Lease he said he had found , And all was for felling of five poor Ashes , To built and House upon your own Ground . Has thou a Lease here said our King , Or canst thou show to me this deed , He gave it into the Kings own hand , And said Sir , here it is if you can read . Lets see the Lease , then said our King , Then from his black Box he pull'd it out ; He gave it into the Kings own hand , With four or five Knots ty'd fast in a Clout . Well never unloose these knots , said the King , He gave it to one that behind him did stay . It is a proud Horse then said the poor Man , Will not bear his own Provinder along the highway . Pay me forty shillings as I'm pay you , I will not think much to unlose a Knot ; Would I were so occupied ever day , I would unlose a score of them for a Groat . When the King had got these Letters read , And found the truth was very so ; I warrant thee thou hast not forfeit thy Lease , If thou had fell'd five Ashes more ; Ay every one can warrant me , But all their warrants are not worth a Flay ; For he that troubles me and will not let me go , Neither cares for Warrants of me nor you . Thou'st have and Injunction said our King , From troubling you he will cease ; He'll either show the good cause why , Or else he'll let thee live in peace . What is that Injunction sa The KING and NORTHERN MAN . Showing how a poor Northumberland Man , Tenant to the King , was wrong'd by a Lawyer ; how the poor Man went to the King and made known his Grievance . TO drive away the weary day , A book I chanced to take in hand : And therein I read assuredly , A story as you shall understand . Perusing many a history over , among the Leaves I chanced to view , The Books name and Title is this , The second Lesson too good to be true . There read I of a Northumberland Man ; That was born and bred up in the kings own land He paid twenty shillings rend a year To the king as I do understand . By him there dwelled a Lawyer false , That with his farm he was not conten But over the poor man still hang'd his Nose , Because he did gather the King's Rend . He told him he his Lease had forfeit , And that he must there no longer abide : The King by such loons had much wrong done And for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man prayed him for to cease , And content himself if he would be willing ; And pick no vantage in my Lease , And I shall give thee forty shilling . It's neither forty shilling nor forty pound , I'm warrant thee can agree thee and me ; Unless thou yield me thy Farm so round , And stand unto my courtesy . The poor man said , I may not do so , My wife and bairns will make ill work , If thou with my Farm wilt let me go , Thou seem'st a good fellow , I'm give thee 5 mark . The Lawyer he would not be so content , But further in the matter he means to smell ; The Neighbours bade the poor man provide his rend And make submission to the King himself . He god and humble staff , on his back , A Jerkin I wot that was gray : With a good blue Bonnet he thought it no lack , To the King he is ganging as fast as may be . He had not gone a mile out of the Town , But one of his Neighbours he did espy ; How far is it to the King , for thither I am bound As fast as I can high . I am sorry for you Neighbour he said , For your simplicity I make moan ; I'm warrant you , you may ask for the King , When nine or ten days Journey you have gone . Had I wist the King had gone so far , I'm ne'er sought him a mile out of the town ; He's either sought me , or we had ne'er come near At home I had rather spent a Crown . But when he came to the City of London , Of every man he for the King did call , They told him he need not fear , For the King he lies now at the White Hall . And with spying of Earls in the City , Because he had never been there before : He lay so long abed the next day , The court was removed to Windsor that morn . You have lain too long then said the host , You have lion too long by a great while , The King he is now to Windsor gone , He's further gone by twenty mile I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , I [ f ] I had been wise I might had consider ; Belike the King of me he's got some Note , He had ne'er gone away had not I come hither . He fled not for you then said his Host , But high you to Windsor as fast as you may ; Be sure it will requite your cost , For look what is passed the King will pay . But when he came to Windsor Castle , With his humble staff on his back . Altho' the Gates wide open stood , He laid laid on them till he made them crack , Why stay , pray friend art mad ? quoth the Porter What makes thee keep this stir today ? Why I am a Tenant of the Kings , Who have a message to him to say ; The King has Men enough ssid the Porter . Your Message well that they can say ; Why there is ne'er a knave that the king does keep Shall ken my secret mind today . I were told e'er I came from home , E'er I god hither it would be dear bought ; Let me in , Ilse give thee a single penny , I see thou ha' small e'er thou do it for nought , Gramercy , said the Porter then , Thy reward is so great I cannot say nay . Yonder's a Nobleman within the Court , I'll first hear wbat he will say . When the Porter came to the Nobleman , He said he would show him pretty sport ; There's sike a Clown came to the Gate , As came not these seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves the King does keep , He raps at the Gate and makes a great din : He's passing liberal of Reward . He'd give a good single Penny to be let in . Let him in then said the Nobleman , Come in Fellow the Porter did say , If thou come within thyself he said Thy Staff behind the Gate must stay , And this Cuckold's Cur may lig behind , What a Devil what a Cur thou hast god with thee The King will take him up for his own self , I'm warrant when he does him see . Beshrew thy Limbs , then said the poor man , Thou may count me Fool or worse , I wot not what Bankrupt lies by the King , For want of Money may pick my Purse . Let him in with his staff and his dog said the lord , He gave a nod with's head and bow with's knee If you be sir King then said the poor man , As I can very well think you be . For I was told e'er I came from home , You're the goodliest man that e'er I saw before , With so many Jingle Jangles about ones neck , As is about yours I ne'er saw none . I am not the King said the Nobleman , Fellow , though I have a proud Coat ; If you ben't the King help me to the speech of him You seem a good Fellow , I'm give thee a Groat . Gramercy said the Nobleman , Thy reward is so great I can't say nay ; I'll know the King's pleasure if I can , Till I come again be sure you stay . Here's sike a staying said the poor man , Belike the Kings better then any in our country I might ha' gone to the farthest nuke o' the house Neither Lad nor Lass to trouble me . When the Nobleman came to the King , He said he would show his Grace good sport ; Here's such a Clown came to the Gate , As came not these seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves your Highness does keep , And more than that he tells them worse ; He'll not come in without his Staff and his Dog , For fear some Bankrupt should pick his purse . Let him said the King with his Staff and Dog , That of his sport we may see some ; We'll see how he'll handle every point , As soon as our match of Bowls is done . The Nobleman led him thro' many a Room , And through many a Gallery gay : What a de'il does the King with so many houses That he gets them not fill'd with Corn and Hay . At last they 'spyed the King in a Garden , Yet from his Game he did not start ; The Day was so hight he cast off his Doublet , He had nothing from his Waste but his Shirt . Lo yonder's the King said the Nobleman , Behold Fellow , lo yonder he goes ; I believe he's some Unthrift said the poor Man ; That has lost his Money and pawn'd his Clothes But when he came before the King , The Nobleman made his courtisie , The poor Man followed after him , Gave a Nod with his Head and a bend with his knee If you be the Sir King then said the poor Man , As I can hardly think you be , He is a good Fellow that brought me hither , More likely to be a King than thee I am the King his Grace now said , Fellow let me thy case understand ; If you be Sir King , I'm a Tenant of yours , That was born and brought up in your own Land. There dwells a Lawyer hard by me , And a fault with my Lease he said he had found , And all was for felling of five poor Ashes , To built and House upon your own Ground . Has thou a Lease here said our King , Or canst thou show to me this deed , He gave it into the Kings own hand , And said Sir , here it is if you can read . Lets see the Lease , then said our King , Then from his black Box he pull'd it out ; He gave it into the Kings own hand , With four or five Knots ty'd fast in a Clout . Well never unloose these knots , said the King , He gave it to one that behind him did stay . It is a proud Horse then said the poor Man , Will not bear his own Provinder along the highway . Pay me forty shillings as I'm pay you , I will not think much to unlose a Knot ; Would I were so occupied ever day , I would unlose a score of them for a Groat . When the King had got these Letters read , And found the truth was very so ; I warrant thee thou hast not forfeit thy Lease , If thou had fell'd five Ashes more ; Ay every one can warrant me , But all their warrants are not worth a Flay ; For he that troubles me and will not let me go , Neither cares for Warrants of me nor you . Thou'st have and Injunction said our King , From troubling you he will cease ; He'll either show the good cause why , Or else he'll let thee live in peace . What is that Injunction said the poor Man , Good Sir to me I pray you say ; Why it is a Letter I'll cause to be written , But art thou so simple as thou shew'st today ? Why if it be a Letter , I'm never the better , Keep it to thy self and trouble not me : I could have had a Letter written cheaper at home , And ne'er come out of my own Country Thou'st have and Attachment said our King , Charge all that thou seest to take thy par Till he pay thee a hundred Pound , Before thou never let him start . If any seem against thee to stand Be sure thou come hither straightway , Ay marry is that all i'm get for my labour , Then I may come trotting every day . Thou art hard of belief than said our King , To please him with Letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , With all my Heart i'm give thee a shilling . I'll have none of thy Shilling than said our King , Man with thy Money , God give thee win He threw it unto the Kings Bosom , The Money lay cold unto his Skin . Beshrew thy Heart then said our King , Thou art a Carl something too bold ; Dost thou not see I am hight with bowling ; And the Money next my Skin is cold . I ne'er wist that before said the poor Man , Before sick time as I came hither ; If the Lawyers in our Country thought it so , They would not heap up so much together . The King call'd up his Treasurer , And bade him fetch him twenty Pound , If ever thy Errand lie hereaway , I'll bear thy Charges up and down . When the poor Man saw the Gold down tender'd , For to receive it he was willing ; If I had thought the King had so much Gold , Beshrew my Heart I had kept my Shilling . The poor Man god him home the next Sunday , The Lawyer soon did him espy ; Oh Sir , you've been a Stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed , said the poor Man , The Matter to the King as I have tell ; I did as my Neighbours put into my Head. And made a Submission to him myself . What a de'il dost thou | with the King , said the Lawyer , Could not Neighbours and Friends agree thee and me ; The de'il a Neighbour nor Friend that I had , That would have been such a Dayman as he . He gin this to me but I know not how they call't But if the Kings word be true to me , When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'll leave and let me be . He has gin this to me but I know not what 'tis But I charge you all to hold him fast ; Till he pay me a hundred Pound , I will go and tie him fast to a Post . Mary God forbid the Lawyer he said , Then th' Attachment was read before them there ; Thou must needs something credit me , Till I go home and fetch some more . Credit , nay that's it the King forbade . He bade if I god thee , I should thee stay . The Lawyer he paid him and hundred Pound , In ready Money before he went away . Would every Lawyer were served thus , From troubling poor Men they would cease ; They'd either show them good cause why , Or else they'd let them live in peace . And thus I end my merry Song . Which shows the poor man's simpleness , And the Kings great mercy in righting wrongs , And the Lawyer's fraud and wickedness . Printed and sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . id the poor Man , Good Sir to me I pray you say ; Why it is a Letter I'll cause to be written , But art thou so simple as thou shew'st today ? Why if it be a Letter , I'm never the better , Keep it to thy self and trouble not me : I could have had a Letter written cheaper at home , And ne'er come out of my own Country Thou'st have and Attachment said our King , Charge all that thou seest to take thy par Till he pay thee a hundred Pound , Before thou never let him start . If any seem against thee to stand Be sure thou come hither straightway , Ay marry is that all i'm get for my labour , Then I may come trotting every day . Thou art hard of belief than said our King , To please him with Letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , With all my Heart i'm give thee a shilling . I'll have none of thy Shilling than said our King , Man with thy Money , God give thee win He threw it unto the Kings Bosom , The Money lay cold unto his Skin . Beshrew thy Heart then said our King , Thou art a Carl something too bold ; Dost thou not see I am hight with bowling ; And the Money next my Skin is cold . I ne'er wist that before said the poor Man , Before sick time as I came hither ; If the Lawyers in our Country thought it so , They would not heap up so much together . The King call'd up his Treasurer , And bade him fetch him twenty Pound , If ever thy Errand lie hereaway , I'll bear thy Charges up and down . When the poor Man saw the Gold down tender'd , For to receive it he was willing ; If I had thought the King had so much Gold , Beshrew my Heart I had kept my Shilling . The poor Man god him home the next Sunday , The Lawyer soon did him espy ; Oh Sir , you've been a Stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed , said the poor Man , The Matter to the King as I have tell ; I did as my Neighbours put into my Head. And made a Submission to him myself . What a de'il dost thou | with the King , said the Lawyer , Could not Neighbours and Friends agree thee and me ; The de'il a Neighbour nor Friend that I had , That would have been such a Dayman as he . He gin this to me but I know not how they call't But if the Kings word be true to me , When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'll leave and let me be . He has gin this to me but I know not what 'tis But I charge you all to hold him fast ; Till he pay me a hundred Pound , I will go and tie him fast to a Post . Mary God forbid the Lawyer he said , Then th' Attachment was read before them there ; Thou must needs something credit me , Till I go home and fetch some more . Credit , nay that's it the King forbade . He bade if I god thee , I should thee stay . The Lawyer he paid him and hundred Pound , In ready Money before he went away . Would every Lawyer were served thus , From troubling poor Men they would cease ; They'd either show them good cause why , Or else they'd let them live in peace . And thus I end my merry Song . Which shows the poor man's simpleness , And the Kings great mercy in righting wrongs , And the Lawyer's fraud and wickedness . Printed and sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 