[ And excellent ballad , of a Prince of England's courtship to the King of France's Daughter , and how the Prince was disastrously Slave ; and how the aforesaid Princess was afterwards mar - ried to a Forester . ] To the Tune of Crimson Velvet . IN the days of old when Fair France did Flourish , Stories plainly told Lovers felt annoy ? The King a Daughter had beauteous , fair , and lovely Which made her Father glad , she was his only Joy . A Prince of England came Whose Deeds did merit Fame he woo'd her long and lo at last Look what he did require . She granted his desire their hearts in one was linked fast Which when her Father proved Lord how he was moved , and tormented in his mind He sought for to prevent them And to discontent them , Fortune crossed lovers kind . When these Princes twain , were thus bar'd of pleasure , Through the King's Disdain , which their Joys withstood . The Lady locked up close , her Jewels and her Treasure Having no remorse of State and Royal Blood : [ I ] n homely poor Array , [ S ] he went from Court away , to meet her love and hearts delight Who in a Forest great , Had taken up his seat , to wait her coming in the Night . But lo what sudden Danger , To this Princely Stranger , chanced as he sat alone . By Outlaws he was robbed , And with a Poniard stabbed uttering many a dying groan The Princess armed by him , and by true Desire Wandering all that Night , without dread at all : Still unknown she passed , in her strange Attire , Coming at the last within Eccho's call , You fair wood , quoth she , Honoured may you be , harbouring my Heart's Delight , Which does encompass here My Joy and only Dear , my trusty Friend and comely Knight Sweet I come unto thee Sweet I come to Woo thee , that thou may'st not angry be , For my long delaying , And thy courteous staying . amends for all I'll make to thee . Passing thus alone ; through the silent Forest Many a grievous groan , sounded in her ear , Where she herd a Man to lament the forest , Chance that ever came , forc'd by deadly strife : Farewell . my Dear , quoth he , Whom I shall never see , for why my life is at and end For thy sweet sake I die , Through Villains cruelty . to show I am a Faithful Friend Here I lie a bleeding , While my thoughts are feeding , on the rarest Beauty found Oh hard hap that may be , Little know's my Lady , my heart blood lies on the ground With that he gave a groan that did break asunder All the tender strings of his gentle Heart , She who knew his voice , at his tale did wonder All her former joys did to grief convert , Straight she ran to see , who this Man should be , That so like her Love did speak , and found when as she came Her lovely Lord lay slave , smear'd in Blood , which life did break Which when that she espy'd Lord how soar she cried , her sorrows could not counted be , Her eyes like fountains running , While she cry'd out my Darling would God that I had dy'd for thee His pale lips , alas , twenty times she kissed , And his face did wash with her brinish tears ; Every bleeding wound , her fair Face bedewed , Wiping of the Blood , with her Golden Hair : Speak my Love ( quoth she ) Speak fair Prince to me , one sweet word of comfort give Lift up thy fair Eyes , Listen to my cries , think in what great grief I live All in vain she sued , All in vain she wooed , the Princes life was fled and gone There stood she still mourning . Till the Sun's approaching and bright Day was coming on [ In this great Distress , ] quoth this Royal Lady , Who can now express what will become of me ; To my Father's Court never will I wander , But some Service seek where I may placed be While she thus made her moan , weeping all alone In this deep and deadly fear , a Forester all in green , most comely to be seen , Ranging the Wood did find her there Round beset with sorrow Maid ( quoth he ) good morrow ; what hard hap hath brought you here Harder hap did never Chance to a Maiden ever , here lies slave my Brother dear Where might I be plac'd gentle Forester tell me Where might I procure a Service in my need Pains will I not spare but will do my Duty , Ease me of my Care . help my extreme need . The Forester all amazed , On her Beauty gazed till his Heart was set on Fire : If fair Maid ( puoth he ) You will go with me , you shall have your hearts desire He brought her to his Mother , And above all other , he set forth this Maidens praise ; Long was his Heart inflamed , At length her Love he gained , so Fortune did his Glory raise Thus unknown he match'd , with the King's fair Daughter , Children seven he had , e'er she to him was known : But when he understood she was a Royal Princes , By this means at last he showed forth her fame . He clothed his Children then , Not like to other Men , [ in party colours strange to see ] The right side cloth of gold , The left side to behold , of Woolen Cloth still framed he Men thereat did wonder , Golden Fame did Thunder , this strange deed in every place The King of France came thither Being pleasant Weather , in these woods the Heart to chase The Children there did stand , as their Mother willed : Where the Royal King must of force come by Their Mother richly clad in fair Crimson Velvet Their Father all in Green , most comely to be seen When this famous King , Noting every thing , did ask how he durst be so bold , To let his Wife to wear ; And deck his Children there in costly robes of Pearl and Gold ; The Forester bold reply'd And the cause descry'd ; and to the King he thus did say Well may they by their Mother . Wear rich Clothes with other , being by Birth a Princes gay . The King upon these words , more headfully beheld them Till a Crimson Blush , his conceit did cross The more I look ( quoth he ) upon thy Wife and Children The more I call to mind , my Daughter whom I lost I am that Child ( quoth she ) Falling on her knee , pardon me my Sovereign Liege . The King perceiving this , His Daughter dear did kiss , till joyful tears did stop his speech With his Train he turned , And with her sojourned , straight he dub'd her Husband Knight . He made him Earl of Flanders , One of his chief Commanders thus was their sorrow put to flight [ And excellent ballad , of a Prince of England's courtship to the King of France's Daughter , and how the Prince was disastrously Slave ; and how the aforesaid Princess was afterwards mar - ried to a Forester . ] To the Tune of Crimson Velvet . IN the days of old when Fair France did Flourish , Stories plainly told Lovers felt annoy ? The King a Daughter had beauteous , fair , and lovely Which made her Father glad , she was his only Joy . A Prince of England came Whose Deeds did merit Fame he woo'd her long and lo at last Look what he did require . She granted his desire their hearts in one was linked fast Which when her Father proved Lord how he was moved , and tormented in his mind He sought for to prevent them And to discontent them , Fortune crossed lovers kind . When these Princes twain , were thus bar'd of pleasure , Through the King's Disdain , which their Joys withstood . The Lady locked up close , her Jewels and her Treasure Having no remorse of State and Royal Blood : [ I ] n homely poor Array , [ S ] he went from Court away , to meet her love and hearts delight Who in a Forest great , Had taken up his seat , to wait her coming in the Night . But lo what sudden Danger , To this Princely Stranger , chanced as he sat alone . By Outlaws he was robbed , And with a Poniard stabbed uttering many a dying groan The Princess armed by him , and by true Desire Wandering all that Night , without dread at all : Still unknown she passed , in her strange Attire , Coming at the last within Eccho's call , You fair wood , quoth she , Honoured may you be , harbouring my Heart's Delight , Which does encompass here My Joy and only Dear , my trusty Friend and comely Knight Sweet I come unto thee Sweet I come to Woo thee , that thou may'st not angry be , For my long delaying , And thy courteous staying . amends for all I'll make to thee . Passing thus alone ; through the silent Forest Many a grievous groan , sounded in her ear , Where she herd a Man to lament the forest , Chance that ever came , forc'd by deadly strife : Farewell . my Dear , quoth he , Whom I shall never see , for why my life is at and end For thy sweet sake I die , Through Villains cruelty . to show I am a Faithful Friend Here I lie a bleeding , While my thoughts are feeding , on the rarest Beauty found Oh hard hap that may be , Little know's my Lady , my heart blood lies on the ground With that he gave a groan that did break asunder All the tender strings of his gentle Heart , She who knew his voice , at his tale did wonder All her former joys did to grief convert , Straight she ran to see , who this Man should be , That so like her Love did speak , and found when as she came Her lovely Lord lay slave , smear'd in Blood , which life did break Which when that she espy'd Lord how soar she cried , her sorrows could not counted be , Her eyes like fountains running , While she cry'd out my Darling would God that I had dy'd for thee His pale lips , alas , twenty times she kissed , And his face did wash with her brinish tears ; Every bleeding wound , her fair Face bedewed , Wiping of the Blood , with her Golden Hair : Speak my Love ( quoth she ) Speak fair Prince to me , one sweet word of comfort give Lift up thy fair Eyes , Listen to my cries , think in what great grief I live All in vain she sued , All in vain she wooed , the Princes life was fled and gone There stood she still mourning . Till the Sun's approaching and bright Day was coming on [ In this great Distress , ] quoth this Royal Lady , Who can now express what will become of me ; To my Father's Court never will I wander , But some Service seek where I may placed be While she thus made her moan , weeping all alone In this deep and deadly fear , a Forester all in green , most comely to be seen , Ranging the Wood did find her there Round beset with sorrow Maid ( quoth he ) good morrow ; what hard hap hath brought you here Harder hap did never Chance to a Maiden ever , here lies slave my Brother dear Where might I be plac'd gentle Forester tell me Where might I procure a Service in my need Pains will I not spare but will do my Duty , Ease me of my Care . help my extreme need . The Forester all amazed , On her Beauty gazed till his Heart was set on Fire : If fair Maid ( puoth he ) You will go with me , you shall have your hearts desire He brought her to his Mother , And above all other , he set forth this Maidens praise ; Long was his Heart inflamed , At length her Love he gained , so Fortune did his Glory raise Thus unknown he match'd , with the King's fair Daughter , Children seven he had , e'er she to him was known : But when he understood she was a Royal Princes , By this means at last he showed forth her fame . He clothed his Children then , Not like to other Men , [ in party colours strange to see ] The right side cloth of gold , The left side to behold , of Woolen Cloth still framed he Men thereat did wonder , Golden Fame did Thunder , this strange deed in every place The King of France came thither Being pleasant Weather , in these woods the Heart to chase The Children there did stand , as their Mother willed : Where the Royal King must of force come by Their Mother richly clad in fair Crimson Velvet Their Father all in Green , most comely to be seen When this famous King , Noting every thing , did ask how he durst be so bold , To let his Wife to wear ; And deck his Children there in costly robes of Pearl and Gold ; The Forester bold reply'd And the cause descry'd ; and to the King he thus did say Well may they by their Mother . Wear rich Clothes with other , being by Birth a Princes gay . The King upon these words , more headfully beheld them Till a Crimson Blush , his conceit did cross The more I look ( quoth he ) upon thy Wife and Children The more I call to mind , my Daughter whom I lost I am that Child ( quoth she ) Falling on her knee , pardon me my Sovereign Liege . The King perceiving this , His Daughter dear did kiss , till joyful tears did stop his speech With his Train he turned , And with her sojourned , straight he dub'd her Husband Knight . He made him Earl of Flanders , One of his chief Commanders thus was their sorrow put to flight 