And Excellent BALLAD of St. GEORGE for England and the King of AEgypt's Daughter whom he delivered from Death , and how he slew a Monstous Dragon , etc To the Tune of Flying Fame . Licens'd according to Order . OF Hectors Deeds did Homer Sing , and of the Sack of stately Troy , With grief Fair Helen did them bring which was Sir Paris only Joy . And with my Pen I must recite , St. George's Deeds and English Knight . Against the Sarazens full rude . fought he full long and many a Day , Where many a Giant he subdu'd , in Honour of the Christian way , And after many Adventures past , to AEgypt Land he came at last . And as the Story plain does tell , within that Country there did rest , A dreadful Dragon Fierce and Fell , whereby they were full soar oppressed , Whereby his Poisoned Breath each Day , did many of the City slay . The grief whereof did grow so great , throughout the Limits of the Land That they their Wise men did entreat , to show their cunning Art out of hand , Which way they might this Dragon destroy that did their Country soar annoy . The Wisemen all stood before the King , and fram'd the Matter Incontinent , The Dragon none to Death might bring , by any means they could invent , His Skin more hard then Brass was found , that Sword or Spear cou'd pierce or wound When the People understood , they Cried out most piteously , The Dragons Breath infects their Blood , that they each Day in heaps did Die , among them such a Plague it bred , the Living scarce could bury the Dead . No means there was that they could find , for to appease the Dragons rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind . whereby he might his Fury suage . Each day he should a Maiden eat , for to allay his Hunger great , This thing by Art the Wisemen found which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round , a Virgin pure of good degree , Was by the Kings Commission still took up to serve the Dragons will . Thus did the Dragon every Days a Maiden of the Town destroy . Till all the Maids were worn away , and none were left this present hour , Saving the Kings fair Daughter bright , her Father's Joy and Hearts delight , Then came the Officers to the King , this heavy Message to declare , Which did his Heart with Sorrow sting , she is quoth he my Kingdoms Heir , Oh let us all be Poyson'd here e'er she should Die that is my Dear , Then rose the People presently and to the King in rage they went , Who said his Daughter dear should die the Dragons fury to prevent . Our Daughters all are Dead quoth they , and have been made the Dragons prey And by their Blood thou hast been Blessed , and thou hast sav'd thy Life thereby , And now in Justice it does rest for us thy Daughter so should Die . O save my Daughter said the King and let me feel the Dragons sting Then fell fair Sabrine on her Knee , and to her Father then did say , Oh Father strive not thus for me but let me be the Dragons prey It may be for my sake alone this Plague upon the Land is shown . This better I should Die she said , then all your Subject's perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here is laid , for my Offence to work his spite , and after he has sucked my Gore , Your land shall know the grief no more . what hast thou done , my Daughter dear , for to deserve this heavy scourge ? It is my fault it shall appear , which makes the Gods the state to grudge then ought I die to stint the Strife , and to preserve thy happy life . Like Madmen all the people cry'd , thy Death to us can do no good , Our Safety only does abide to make thy Daughter Dragons Food . Loe here I am , Oh then , ( quoth she ) therefore do what you will with me : Nay stay dear daughter quoth the Queen , and as thou art a Virgin bright , that hath for virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white , and crown thy head with Flowers sweet , and ornament for Virgins meet , and when she was attired so , [ a ] ccording to her Mother's mind , Unto the Stake then did she go , to which they did this Virgin bind , and bieng bound to stake and thrall , She bid farewell unto them all . Farewell , dear Father , then quoth she , and my sweet Mother meek and mild , take you no thought nor care for me , for you may have another Child . Here for my Country's Good I'll die , which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their train , with weeping eyes they went away and let their Daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragons prey . But as she there did weeping l [ i ] e , Behold St. George came riding by , and seeing there a Lady bright , fast tied to the stake that day , Most like unto a valiant Knight straight unto her did take h [ i ] s way . Tell me sweet Maiden , then quoth he What Person thus abused thee , And lo by Christ his Cross I vow , which here is Figured on my Breast I will revenge it on h [ i ] s brow , and break my Lance upon his crest . And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issued out of the Wood . The Lady that did first espy , the dreadful Dragon coming so , Unto St. George aloud did cry and willed him away to go , Here comes that ugly Fiend quoth she , that soon will make and end of me . St. George then looking round about , the fiery Dragon soon espy'd , And like a Knight of Courage stout against him he did fiercely Ride : And with such Blows he did him greet That he fell under the Horses Feet . For with a Lance that was so strong , as he came gaping in his Face , In at his Mouth he thrust it along , the which could pierce no other place , And there within this Ladies view , This dreadful Dragon there he slew . The savour of his poyson'd Breath , could do this Christian Knight no harm , Thus did he save the Lady from Death , and home he led her by the Arm , Which when Ptolomy did see , There was great Joy and Melody . When as the famous Knight St. George had slave the Dragon in the Field And brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with Joy their Hearts fill'd . He in the Egyptian Court then stayed , till he most falsely was betray'd . The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , he counted her his only Joy , But when their Loves was open known , It prov'd St. George's great annoy The Morocco King was in the Court , who to the Orchard did resort , Daily to take the pleasant Air , for pleasures sake he us'd to walk , Under the Wall , whereas he herd , St. George with Lady Sabrine talk . Their Loves he revealed to the King , Which to St. George great woe did bring , These Kings together did devise , to make this Christian Knight away . With Letters him Ambassador sent , they straightway sent to Persia , And wrote to the Sophy him to Kill , and Treachously his Blood to Spill , Thus they for good did him reward with Evil and most subtlety By such vile means they did devise to work his Death most cruelly While he in Persia did abided , He straight destroy'd each Idol God , Which being done he straight was flung , into a Dungeon dark and deep But when he thought upon his Wrong , he bitterly did wail and weep , Yet like a Knight of Courage stout , Forth of the Dungeon he god out And in the Night three Horsekeepers , this valiant Knight by power slew Although he fasted many a Day , and then away from thence he flew , On the best Steed the Sophy had , Which when he knew he was full glad Then into Christendom he came and met a Giant by the way . With him in Combat he did fight , most valiantly a Summer's day Who yet for all his bars of Steel was forc'd the sting of death to feel From Christendom the valiant knight . then with war like Shoulders past , Vowing upon that heathen Land. to work revenge which at the last , E'er thrice three years was gone and spent . He did unto his great content , Save only Egypt land be spared , for Sabrine bright her only lake . And e're his rage he did surpress , he meant a trial kind to make , Potlemy did know his strength in field , And unto him did kindly yield , then the Morocco king did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his Wife , And afterwards contendedly with that St. George did led his life . Who by the Virtue of a Chain , Did still a Vergin pure remain , To England then St. George did bring , this gallant lady Sabrine bright , And eunuch also came with him , in whom the Lady did delight , None but these three from Egypt came Now let me Print St. Georges Fame , When they were in the Forest great , the lady did desire to rest And then St. George to kill a deer , to feed thereon did think it best , Le And Excellent BALLAD of St. GEORGE for England and the King of AEgypt's Daughter whom he delivered from Death , and how he slew a Monstous Dragon , etc To the Tune of Flying Fame . Licens'd according to Order . OF Hectors Deeds did Homer Sing , and of the Sack of stately Troy , With grief Fair Helen did them bring which was Sir Paris only Joy . And with my Pen I must recite , St. George's Deeds and English Knight . Against the Sarazens full rude . fought he full long and many a Day , Where many a Giant he subdu'd , in Honour of the Christian way , And after many Adventures past , to AEgypt Land he came at last . And as the Story plain does tell , within that Country there did rest , A dreadful Dragon Fierce and Fell , whereby they were full soar oppressed , Whereby his Poisoned Breath each Day , did many of the City slay . The grief whereof did grow so great , throughout the Limits of the Land That they their Wise men did entreat , to show their cunning Art out of hand , Which way they might this Dragon destroy that did their Country soar annoy . The Wisemen all stood before the King , and fram'd the Matter Incontinent , The Dragon none to Death might bring , by any means they could invent , His Skin more hard then Brass was found , that Sword or Spear cou'd pierce or wound When the People understood , they Cried out most piteously , The Dragons Breath infects their Blood , that they each Day in heaps did Die , among them such a Plague it bred , the Living scarce could bury the Dead . No means there was that they could find , for to appease the Dragons rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind . whereby he might his Fury suage . Each day he should a Maiden eat , for to allay his Hunger great , This thing by Art the Wisemen found which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round , a Virgin pure of good degree , Was by the Kings Commission still took up to serve the Dragons will . Thus did the Dragon every Days a Maiden of the Town destroy . Till all the Maids were worn away , and none were left this present hour , Saving the Kings fair Daughter bright , her Father's Joy and Hearts delight , Then came the Officers to the King , this heavy Message to declare , Which did his Heart with Sorrow sting , she is quoth he my Kingdoms Heir , Oh let us all be Poyson'd here e'er she should Die that is my Dear , Then rose the People presently and to the King in rage they went , Who said his Daughter dear should die the Dragons fury to prevent . Our Daughters all are Dead quoth they , and have been made the Dragons prey And by their Blood thou hast been Blessed , and thou hast sav'd thy Life thereby , And now in Justice it does rest for us thy Daughter so should Die . O save my Daughter said the King and let me feel the Dragons sting Then fell fair Sabrine on her Knee , and to her Father then did say , Oh Father strive not thus for me but let me be the Dragons prey It may be for my sake alone this Plague upon the Land is shown . This better I should Die she said , then all your Subject's perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here is laid , for my Offence to work his spite , and after he has sucked my Gore , Your land shall know the grief no more . what hast thou done , my Daughter dear , for to deserve this heavy scourge ? It is my fault it shall appear , which makes the Gods the state to grudge then ought I die to stint the Strife , and to preserve thy happy life . Like Madmen all the people cry'd , thy Death to us can do no good , Our Safety only does abide to make thy Daughter Dragons Food . Loe here I am , Oh then , ( quoth she ) therefore do what you will with me : Nay stay dear daughter quoth the Queen , and as thou art a Virgin bright , that hath for virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white , and crown thy head with Flowers sweet , and ornament for Virgins meet , and when she was attired so , [ a ] ccording to her Mother's mind , Unto the Stake then did she go , to which they did this Virgin bind , and bieng bound to stake and thrall , She bid farewell unto them all . Farewell , dear Father , then quoth she , and my sweet Mother meek and mild , take you no thought nor care for me , for you may have another Child . Here for my Country's Good I'll die , which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their train , with weeping eyes they went away and let their Daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragons prey . But as she there did weeping l [ i ] e , Behold St. George came riding by , and seeing there a Lady bright , fast tied to the stake that day , Most like unto a valiant Knight straight unto her did take h [ i ] s way . Tell me sweet Maiden , then quoth he What Person thus abused thee , And lo by Christ his Cross I vow , which here is Figured on my Breast I will revenge it on h [ i ] s brow , and break my Lance upon his crest . And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issued out of the Wood . The Lady that did first espy , the dreadful Dragon coming so , Unto St. George aloud did cry and willed him away to go , Here comes that ugly Fiend quoth she , that soon will make and end of me . St. George then looking round about , the fiery Dragon soon espy'd , And like a Knight of Courage stout against him he did fiercely Ride : And with such Blows he did him greet That he fell under the Horses Feet . For with a Lance that was so strong , as he came gaping in his Face , In at his Mouth he thrust it along , the which could pierce no other place , And there within this Ladies view , This dreadful Dragon there he slew . The savour of his poyson'd Breath , could do this Christian Knight no harm , Thus did he save the Lady from Death , and home he led her by the Arm , Which when Ptolomy did see , There was great Joy and Melody . When as the famous Knight St. George had slave the Dragon in the Field And brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with Joy their Hearts fill'd . He in the Egyptian Court then stayed , till he most falsely was betray'd . The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , he counted her his only Joy , But when their Loves was open known , It prov'd St. George's great annoy The Morocco King was in the Court , who to the Orchard did resort , Daily to take the pleasant Air , for pleasures sake he us'd to walk , Under the Wall , whereas he herd , St. George with Lady Sabrine talk . Their Loves he revealed to the King , Which to St. George great woe did bring , These Kings together did devise , to make this Christian Knight away . With Letters him Ambassador sent , they straightway sent to Persia , And wrote to the Sophy him to Kill , and Treachously his Blood to Spill , Thus they for good did him reward with Evil and most subtlety By such vile means they did devise to work his Death most cruelly While he in Persia did abided , He straight destroy'd each Idol God , Which being done he straight was flung , into a Dungeon dark and deep But when he thought upon his Wrong , he bitterly did wail and weep , Yet like a Knight of Courage stout , Forth of the Dungeon he god out And in the Night three Horsekeepers , this valiant Knight by power slew Although he fasted many a Day , and then away from thence he flew , On the best Steed the Sophy had , Which when he knew he was full glad Then into Christendom he came and met a Giant by the way . With him in Combat he did fight , most valiantly a Summer's day Who yet for all his bars of Steel was forc'd the sting of death to feel From Christendom the valiant knight . then with war like Shoulders past , Vowing upon that heathen Land. to work revenge which at the last , E'er thrice three years was gone and spent . He did unto his great content , Save only Egypt land be spared , for Sabrine bright her only lake . And e're his rage he did surpress , he meant a trial kind to make , Potlemy did know his strength in field , And unto him did kindly yield , then the Morocco king did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his Wife , And afterwards contendedly with that St. George did led his life . Who by the Virtue of a Chain , Did still a Vergin pure remain , To England then St. George did bring , this gallant lady Sabrine bright , And eunuch also came with him , in whom the Lady did delight , None but these three from Egypt came Now let me Print St. Georges Fame , When they were in the Forest great , the lady did desire to rest And then St. George to kill a deer , to feed thereon did think it best , Left Sabrine and the eunuch there , while he did go and kill a deer . the mean time in his absenc' came , two hungry Lyons fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently , in pieces small the truth to tell , Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seem'd she was a Maid , But when St. George from hunting came and did behold this heavy chance , Yet for this lovely Virgin pure , His courage stout it did advance : And came within the Lyons sighed , Who run at him with all their might , But he being not a bit dismay'd . but like a stout and valiant Knight , Did kill the hungry Lyons both , within the Lady Sabrine's sighed , But all this while sad and demure . She stood there like a Virgin pure , Then when St. George did truly know his Lady was a Virgin true , Those doleful thoughts that e're was dumb began most firmly to renew : He sat her on a Palfrey steed , And towards England came with speed , Where he arrived in short space , unto his Father's dwelling place , Where with his dearest Love he liv'd , when Fortune did their Nuptial grace They many Years of Joy did feel And led their lives at Coventry . FINIS . ft Sabrine and the eunuch there , while he did go and kill a deer . the mean time in his absenc' came , two hungry Lyons fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently , in pieces small the truth to tell , Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seem'd she was a Maid , But when St. George from hunting came and did behold this heavy chance , Yet for this lovely Virgin pure , His courage stout it did advance : And came within the Lyons sighed , Who run at him with all their might , But he being not a bit dismay'd . but like a stout and valiant Knight , Did kill the hungry Lyons both , within the Lady Sabrine's sighed , But all this while sad and demure . She stood there like a Virgin pure , Then when St. George did truly know his Lady was a Virgin true , Those doleful thoughts that e're was dumb began most firmly to renew : He sat her on a Palfrey steed , And towards England came with speed , Where he arrived in short space , unto his Father's dwelling place , Where with his dearest Love he liv'd , when Fortune did their Nuptial grace They many Years of Joy did feel And led their lives at Coventry . FINIS . 