And Excellent BALLAD OF THE Noble Marquis and Patient Grissel . To the Tune of The Brides Good-morrow . A Noble Marquis , As he did ride a hunting , Hard by a Forrest-side A fair and comely Maiden : As she did fit a spinning , his gentle Eye espied Most fair and lovely , And of comely Grace was she . although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly With pleasant voice and melodiously which set the Lord's heart on Fire . The more he looked the more he might . Beauty bred his Hearts Delight . And to this Damsel then he went with speed , God speed , quoth he , thou famous Flower , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower where Love and Virtue dwell with sweet Content . With comely Gesture And modest mild behaviour She bids him welcome [ e then ; ] She entertained him [ m ] In faithful fry [ ndly Manner , ] and [ all his Gentlemen : ] That [ e noble Marquis ] [ In his Heart felt such a Flame , Which set his Senses all at Strife . Quoth he , fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy Name , I mean to make thee my Wife . Grissel is my Name , quoth she , Far unfit for your Degree ; Silly Maiden And of Parents poor . Nay , Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid : ] Grant me thy Love , and I will ask no more , At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed . Her Country Russet Was changed into Silk and Velvet , as to her state agreed , And when that she Was trimly attired in the same , her Beauty shined most bright , Far outshining every other Fair and Princely Dame that did appear in sighed . Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents Poor , and 'twixt her Lord and she Great strife did raise . Some said this , and some said that , and some did call her Beggars Brat , And to her Lord They would her oft dispraise . O Noble Marqis , Quoth they , why do you wrong us , thus basely her to wed ? Who might have got And honourable Lady into your Princely Bed ; Who will not now Your Noble Issue soon deride , which hereafter shall be born , [ That art ] of blood so base , [ Born by the ] Mother's side , [ that ] e which shall bring them in scorn , [ Put ] her therefore quite away , [ And ] worser take to you a Lady gay [ Wh ] ereby your Lineage [ Ma ] y renowned be . [ Thus ] every day they seem'd to prate , [ That ] malic'd Grissels good Estate , [ Who all ] this while [ Took i ] tO most patiently . [ When ] that the Marquis [ Did see ] that they were thus [ Again ] st his faithful wife , [ Whom ] he most dearly , [ Tenderl ] y and entirely [ Lov'd ] as his Life , [ Minding in Sec ] rest For to try her patient Heart , thereby his Foes for to disgrace , Thinking to show her A hard discourteous Part , that men might pity her Case ; Great with Child this Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly Children at one Birth she had , A Son and Daughter God had sent , which did their Mother well content , And which did make their Father's Heart full glad ; Great Royal Feasting Was at the Children's Christening , and Princely Triumph made Six weeks together . All Nobles that came thither were entertained and stayed . And when that all the pleasant Sporting quite was done , The Marquis a messenger sent For his young Daughter And his pretty smiling Son , declaring his full Intent , How that the Babes must murdered be , For so the Marquis did decree . Come let me have Your Children [ then ] he said . With that Fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands and said no more My gracious Lord must have his Will obeyed . She took the babes , Even from the Nursing-Ladies , between her tender arms , She often wishes with many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms , Farewell , Farewell A thousand times my children dear , never shall I see you again This long of me Your sad and woeful Mother here for whose sake both must be slave . Had I been born of Royal Raze , You might have liv'd in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness . Come messenger of Death , quoth she , Take my dearest babes to thee , and to their Father my complaints express , He took the Children To his noble master , he boar them thence with speed . Who in secret sent them Unto a noble Lady , to be brought up indeed . Then to Fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes , Where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant Gesture and lovely look she shows as if no Grief she'd known . Quoth he , My Children now are slave , What thinks Fair Grissel of the same ? Sweet Grissel now declare thy mind to me , Sith you , my Lord , are pleas'd with it , Poor Grissel thinks the actium fit Both I and mine at your Command will be . My Nobles murmur Fair Grissel and at thy Honour , and I no Joy can have Tell thou be banished Both from my Court and Presence , as they unjustly crave , Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately Garments all , and as thou cam'st to me . In homely Gray , Instead of Silks and purest Pall , now all thy Clothing must be , My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieveth me , The poorest Li [ f ] e must now content thy mind , A Groat to that [ e ] e I dare not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , against my Grissel such great Foes I find : When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful Tidings , the Tears stood in her Eyes , Nothing she answered . No words of Discontentment did from her Lips arise . Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she stripped off , her Girdle of Silk with the same ; Her Russet Gown was brought again with many a bitter Scoff , to bear them her self she did frame , when she was dressed in this array , God send long life unto thy Lord , quoth she , Let no Offence be found in this , To give my Lord a Parting-Kiss , with watery Eyes , Farewell my Dear , said she , From princely Palace Unto her Father's Cottage , poor Grissel she is gone , Full fifteen Winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon , And at this time through All the land the speeches went , the Marquis should married be Unto a Noble Lady Of high Descent , and to the same all parties did agree . The Marquis sent for Grissel The Brides Bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry . The Bride was with her Brother come , Which was great joy to all and some ; But Grissel took all this most patiently , And in the Morning , When as they should be wedded , Her patience there was try'd , Grissel was charged Her self in friendly manner for to attire the Bride , Most willingly She gave consent to do the same , The Bride in Brayery was dressed And presently The Noble Marquis thither came , With all his Lords at his request , Oh Grissel , I will ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Methinks thy Looks are waxed wondrous coy , With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she replied the while , God send Lord Marquis many years of Joy . The Marquis was moved To see his best beloved , thus patient in Distress , He stepped unto her , And by the Hand he took her , these words he did express , Thou art my Bride , And all the Brides I mean to have , these two thine own Children be , The youthful Lady On her Knees did pardon crave , Her own Brother as well as she , And you that envy her Estate , Whom I have made my chosen Mate , Now blush for shame . and honour virtuous Life , The Chronicles of lasting Fame , Shall evermore extol the Name , Of Patient Grissel , my most constant Wife . FINIS And Excellent BALLAD OF THE Noble Marquis and Patient Grissel . To the Tune of The Brides Good-morrow . A Noble Marquis , As he did ride a hunting , Hard by a Forrest-side A fair and comely Maiden : As she did fit a spinning , his gentle Eye espied Most fair and lovely , And of comely Grace was she . although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly With pleasant voice and melodiously which set the Lord's heart on Fire . The more he looked the more he might . Beauty bred his Hearts Delight . And to this Damsel then he went with speed , God speed , quoth he , thou famous Flower , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower where Love and Virtue dwell with sweet Content . With comely Gesture And modest mild behaviour She bids him welcome [ e then ; ] She entertained him [ m ] In faithful fry [ ndly Manner , ] and [ all his Gentlemen : ] That [ e noble Marquis ] [ In his Heart felt such a Flame , Which set his Senses all at Strife . Quoth he , fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy Name , I mean to make thee my Wife . Grissel is my Name , quoth she , Far unfit for your Degree ; Silly Maiden And of Parents poor . Nay , Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid : ] Grant me thy Love , and I will ask no more , At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed . Her Country Russet Was changed into Silk and Velvet , as to her state agreed , And when that she Was trimly attired in the same , her Beauty shined most bright , Far outshining every other Fair and Princely Dame that did appear in sighed . Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents Poor , and 'twixt her Lord and she Great strife did raise . Some said this , and some said that , and some did call her Beggars Brat , And to her Lord They would her oft dispraise . O Noble Marqis , Quoth they , why do you wrong us , thus basely her to wed ? Who might have got And honourable Lady into your Princely Bed ; Who will not now Your Noble Issue soon deride , which hereafter shall be born , [ That art ] of blood so base , [ Born by the ] Mother's side , [ that ] e which shall bring them in scorn , [ Put ] her therefore quite away , [ And ] worser take to you a Lady gay [ Wh ] ereby your Lineage [ Ma ] y renowned be . [ Thus ] every day they seem'd to prate , [ That ] malic'd Grissels good Estate , [ Who all ] this while [ Took i ] tO most patiently . [ When ] that the Marquis [ Did see ] that they were thus [ Again ] st his faithful wife , [ Whom ] he most dearly , [ Tenderl ] y and entirely [ Lov'd ] as his Life , [ Minding in Sec ] rest For to try her patient Heart , thereby his Foes for to disgrace , Thinking to show her A hard discourteous Part , that men might pity her Case ; Great with Child this Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly Children at one Birth she had , A Son and Daughter God had sent , which did their Mother well content , And which did make their Father's Heart full glad ; Great Royal Feasting Was at the Children's Christening , and Princely Triumph made Six weeks together . All Nobles that came thither were entertained and stayed . And when that all the pleasant Sporting quite was done , The Marquis a messenger sent For his young Daughter And his pretty smiling Son , declaring his full Intent , How that the Babes must murdered be , For so the Marquis did decree . Come let me have Your Children [ then ] he said . With that Fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands and said no more My gracious Lord must have his Will obeyed . She took the babes , Even from the Nursing-Ladies , between her tender arms , She often wishes with many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms , Farewell , Farewell A thousand times my children dear , never shall I see you again This long of me Your sad and woeful Mother here for whose sake both must be slave . Had I been born of Royal Raze , You might have liv'd in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness . Come messenger of Death , quoth she , Take my dearest babes to thee , and to their Father my complaints express , He took the Children To his noble master , he boar them thence with speed . Who in secret sent them Unto a noble Lady , to be brought up indeed . Then to Fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes , Where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant Gesture and lovely look she shows as if no Grief she'd known . Quoth he , My Children now are slave , What thinks Fair Grissel of the same ? Sweet Grissel now declare thy mind to me , Sith you , my Lord , are pleas'd with it , Poor Grissel thinks the actium fit Both I and mine at your Command will be . My Nobles murmur Fair Grissel and at thy Honour , and I no Joy can have Tell thou be banished Both from my Court and Presence , as they unjustly crave , Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately Garments all , and as thou cam'st to me . In homely Gray , Instead of Silks and purest Pall , now all thy Clothing must be , My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieveth me , The poorest Li [ f ] e must now content thy mind , A Groat to that [ e ] e I dare not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , against my Grissel such great Foes I find : When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful Tidings , the Tears stood in her Eyes , Nothing she answered . No words of Discontentment did from her Lips arise . Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she stripped off , her Girdle of Silk with the same ; Her Russet Gown was brought again with many a bitter Scoff , to bear them her self she did frame , when she was dressed in this array , God send long life unto thy Lord , quoth she , Let no Offence be found in this , To give my Lord a Parting-Kiss , with watery Eyes , Farewell my Dear , said she , From princely Palace Unto her Father's Cottage , poor Grissel she is gone , Full fifteen Winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon , And at this time through All the land the speeches went , the Marquis should married be Unto a Noble Lady Of high Descent , and to the same all parties did agree . The Marquis sent for Grissel The Brides Bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry . The Bride was with her Brother come , Which was great joy to all and some ; But Grissel took all this most patiently , And in the Morning , When as they should be wedded , Her patience there was try'd , Grissel was charged Her self in friendly manner for to attire the Bride , Most willingly She gave consent to do the same , The Bride in Brayery was dressed And presently The Noble Marquis thither came , With all his Lords at his request , Oh Grissel , I will ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Methinks thy Looks are waxed wondrous coy , With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she replied the while , God send Lord Marquis many years of Joy . The Marquis was moved To see his best beloved , thus patient in Distress , He stepped unto her , And by the Hand he took her , these words he did express , Thou art my Bride , And all the Brides I mean to have , these two thine own Children be , The youthful Lady On her Knees did pardon crave , Her own Brother as well as she , And you that envy her Estate , Whom I have made my chosen Mate , Now blush for shame . and honour virtuous Life , The Chronicles of lasting Fame , Shall evermore extol the Name , Of Patient Grissel , my most constant Wife . FINIS 