The Mournful Lady's Garland . In Three Parts . TRUE Lovers all , both far and near , Behold the [ s ] e lines which I have pen'd , I'd have you take a special care , To swear no more than you intend . Be rul'd by them that wish you well , Honour your parents both day and night , And pray often when you have time , And place this pattern in your sighed . A noble Knight near London liv'd , Who had a daughter very fair , A young rich 'Squire courted her , She loved him exceeding dear . By his false deluding tongue , He stole her yielding heart away , Let every youth that hears this song , Observe these words which I shall say . But sixteen years of age was she , Poor soul ! when she began to love , Let every one her woes condole , For it did soon her ruin prove ; He did so far her favour win , That she did yield with him to lie ; But now good people , pray do mind , You soon shall hear her destiny . At last poor heart ! she prov'd with child , But when at last she found it so , He came to her upon a night , Saying I must to London go ; Next morning he his journey took , With protestations o'er and o'er , That in a week he would return , But o ! he ne'er came near her more . No letters she from him receiv'd , Which made her oft in tears complain , And oftentimes to herself would cry , Where shall I go to hide my shame . At last poor soul , her time drew nigh , Therefore upon a certain night , Her clothes and linen she took up , And from her father took her flight . Long time she wander'd up and down , And could not find a resting place , From country to city , and town to town , Until her money it grew scant . At last upon a lonesome heath , She being by herself alone , Was there deliver'd of a son . Two miles from either house or home . Being so weakened with pains , Poor soul ! she could not stand upright , But with her infant in her arms , Upon the ground she lay all night ; A shepherd having lost a lamb , That from him by chance did stray , Seeking all out to find it out , By providence did come that way , Finding the Lady on the ground , He came to her without delay , Poor soul ! she fell into a swoon , As soon as she the shepherd saw ; But coming [ g ] to herself again , To him she made her sorrow known , He b [ e ] ing of [ tend ] er heart ! Did then conduct her to his home . PART . II THere she much kindness did receive , A [ n ] worser for a month did there remain ; Then wi [ tO ] h her child ty'd to her back , Poor soul she wander'd forth again , Two years she wander'd up and down , At last by chance as you shall hear , She came to famous Dartmouth town , Where the 'Squire lived as we hear . And wandering the streets all o'er , At last poor soul she did espy , The 'squire standing at the door , And by his side his lady gay , Wiping the tears from her eyes , Up to the door she strait did high , And on her bent trembling knees , She beg'd of him his charity . Said he , there's such a dirty crew , That's daily begging in the street , To such like dirty sluts as you , I will give neither bred nor meat ! For that's some bastard at your back , And you , I warrant some common whore , With that he call'd his coachman strait , To whip this creature from his door . With hungry soul , and feeble limb , In the street she wander'd up and down , At last kind fortune so did hit , She god a lodging in the town ; A letter she presently writ , And sealed it with her own hand , These were the words inclos'd in it , Which to the Squire she did send . O cursed wretch ! thy wicked tongue , That was the first ruin of me , You was the first that betrayed me , When I was in my innocency : I slighted all my friends for thee , Curs'd be the hour I saw thy face , It was you and only you , That brought my body to disgrace . When he had read the letter thro' , And ponder'd well within his mind , He straightway made no more ado , But to the Lady came we find , Pretending for to pity her , Forcing a smile to hide a. frown , He said , I'll meet you to morrow night , In such a grove , hard by the town . Next morning to the grove she hy'd , With her sweet little infant dear , There all the day it seems she stayed , But no 'Squire did appear , All night upon the bore cold ground , This creature did the infant lay , But no comfort could be found , So in the morn before 'twas day ; She having never a farthing left , To buy her hungry baby food , She could no longer then make shift , She smote her breast , and thus she said , My tO [ e ] nder babe , alas ! said she , I nothing have to succour thee , Kissing the child , my dear she said , For want of bred we starv'd shall be . Five days within that lonesome wood , She and her baby there did lie , Expecting from his dad some food , To help them in extremity , At last pale death approaching nigh , As at her breast the poor child lay , Her life being spent just to a hair , She to her pretty infant thus did say ; My pretty prattling soul , I cannot bear to hear thee cry , Let tender folks my woes condole , See see thy mother's death is nigh : Stroking the infant o'er the face , Which was besmear'd with briny tears , She said Oh Lord ! what would I give , That thy cruel father was but here . The pretty prattling innocent Hearing it's mother for to cry , With it's little hand did stroke her face , Crying mamma , mamma do not cry , With his little hand about her neck , It raised up and kiss'd her lips ; That every moment her heart did break , She turn'd and to her baby spoke . Lord ! if it be thy blessed will , That my baby should alive remain , Send it some help when I am gone , To ease his hungry piercing pain ! But if it be thy blessed will , said she , That we should die for want of bred , Then welcome death replied she , And staait she died immediately . The child being clasped in her arms , By no means from her could be freed ; Two nights and days it pining lay , And ended then its misery , Two months within this lonesome wood , Unburied these two bodies lay , But now good pe [ oh ] ple pray but mind , A word or two I have to say . PART III . THE ' Squire on a certain day , With men and dogs a hunting went , And having been long time at play , The dogs by fortune lost their scent ; Then running thro' this lonesome wood , These howling hungry dogs of prey , Came to the place , and there they stood , Just where the breathless bodies lay . But mounted on a stately steed , And thro' the woods they galloped ; The horse the bodies first espy'd , And very much was frightened ; At which he gave a sudden stride , And threw the 'Squire on the ground , A stump of bush stuck in his side , Whereby he god a mortal wound . His man he strove to help him up , But turning to him he replied ; Lend me your hand , I cannot stand , Then lay me by that woman's side . She was my wife , before the Lord , And that's my baby that lies dead , God's vengeance now hath followed me , And now hath fallen on my head . He kiss'd her lips , as cold as clay , Likewise to the child he as many gave , And to his man he thus did say , Let us be buried in one grave ? For here I cannot long remain , My cruel heart is split in twain , Dear Christ forgive my soul he said , So with a groan or two he died . Lord ! when this news was brought to town , Of this unhappy accident , His lady she distracted run , But first poor soul ! she gave consent . A coffin was made large and wide , And a grave was made to hold all three , The Lady she lies by his side , And thus I end my tragedy . You tender souls , of Christian hearts , Who hear these verses which I sing ; Remember that which I impart ; To love in vain is a cruel thing . Oh! be dutiful unto your friends , And never do as I have done , Let them that read the same , Think on us that are dead and gone . Printed and Sold at the Printing Office , in Stonecutter Street , Fleet Market , The Mournful Lady's Garland . In Three Parts . TRUE Lovers all , both far and near , Behold the [ s ] e lines which I have pen'd , I'd have you take a special care , To swear no more than you intend . Be rul'd by them that wish you well , Honour your parents both day and night , And pray often when you have time , And place this pattern in your sighed . A noble Knight near London liv'd , Who had a daughter very fair , A young rich 'Squire courted her , She loved him exceeding dear . By his false deluding tongue , He stole her yielding heart away , Let every youth that hears this song , Observe these words which I shall say . But sixteen years of age was she , Poor soul ! when she began to love , Let every one her woes condole , For it did soon her ruin prove ; He did so far her favour win , That she did yield with him to lie ; But now good people , pray do mind , You soon shall hear her destiny . At last poor heart ! she prov'd with child , But when at last she found it so , He came to her upon a night , Saying I must to London go ; Next morning he his journey took , With protestations o'er and o'er , That in a week he would return , But o ! he ne'er came near her more . No letters she from him receiv'd , Which made her oft in tears complain , And oftentimes to herself would cry , Where shall I go to hide my shame . At last poor soul , her time drew nigh , Therefore upon a certain night , Her clothes and linen she took up , And from her father took her flight . Long time she wander'd up and down , And could not find a resting place , From country to city , and town to town , Until her money it grew scant . At last upon a lonesome heath , She being by herself alone , Was there deliver'd of a son . Two miles from either house or home . Being so weakened with pains , Poor soul ! she could not stand upright , But with her infant in her arms , Upon the ground she lay all night ; A shepherd having lost a lamb , That from him by chance did stray , Seeking all out to find it out , By providence did come that way , Finding the Lady on the ground , He came to her without delay , Poor soul ! she fell into a swoon , As soon as she the shepherd saw ; But coming [ g ] to herself again , To him she made her sorrow known , He b [ e ] ing of [ tend ] er heart ! Did then conduct her to his home . PART . II THere she much kindness did receive , A [ n ] worser for a month did there remain ; Then wi [ tO ] h her child ty'd to her back , Poor soul she wander'd forth again , Two years she wander'd up and down , At last by chance as you shall hear , She came to famous Dartmouth town , Where the 'Squire lived as we hear . And wandering the streets all o'er , At last poor soul she did espy , The 'squire standing at the door , And by his side his lady gay , Wiping the tears from her eyes , Up to the door she strait did high , And on her bent trembling knees , She beg'd of him his charity . Said he , there's such a dirty crew , That's daily begging in the street , To such like dirty sluts as you , I will give neither bred nor meat ! For that's some bastard at your back , And you , I warrant some common whore , With that he call'd his coachman strait , To whip this creature from his door . With hungry soul , and feeble limb , In the street she wander'd up and down , At last kind fortune so did hit , She god a lodging in the town ; A letter she presently writ , And sealed it with her own hand , These were the words inclos'd in it , Which to the Squire she did send . O cursed wretch ! thy wicked tongue , That was the first ruin of me , You was the first that betrayed me , When I was in my innocency : I slighted all my friends for thee , Curs'd be the hour I saw thy face , It was you and only you , That brought my body to disgrace . When he had read the letter thro' , And ponder'd well within his mind , He straightway made no more ado , But to the Lady came we find , Pretending for to pity her , Forcing a smile to hide a. frown , He said , I'll meet you to morrow night , In such a grove , hard by the town . Next morning to the grove she hy'd , With her sweet little infant dear , There all the day it seems she stayed , But no 'Squire did appear , All night upon the bore cold ground , This creature did the infant lay , But no comfort could be found , So in the morn before 'twas day ; She having never a farthing left , To buy her hungry baby food , She could no longer then make shift , She smote her breast , and thus she said , My tO [ e ] nder babe , alas ! said she , I nothing have to succour thee , Kissing the child , my dear she said , For want of bred we starv'd shall be . Five days within that lonesome wood , She and her baby there did lie , Expecting from his dad some food , To help them in extremity , At last pale death approaching nigh , As at her breast the poor child lay , Her life being spent just to a hair , She to her pretty infant thus did say ; My pretty prattling soul , I cannot bear to hear thee cry , Let tender folks my woes condole , See see thy mother's death is nigh : Stroking the infant o'er the face , Which was besmear'd with briny tears , She said Oh Lord ! what would I give , That thy cruel father was but here . The pretty prattling innocent Hearing it's mother for to cry , With it's little hand did stroke her face , Crying mamma , mamma do not cry , With his little hand about her neck , It raised up and kiss'd her lips ; That every moment her heart did break , She turn'd and to her baby spoke . Lord ! if it be thy blessed will , That my baby should alive remain , Send it some help when I am gone , To ease his hungry piercing pain ! But if it be thy blessed will , said she , That we should die for want of bred , Then welcome death replied she , And staait she died immediately . The child being clasped in her arms , By no means from her could be freed ; Two nights and days it pining lay , And ended then its misery , Two months within this lonesome wood , Unburied these two bodies lay , But now good pe [ oh ] ple pray but mind , A word or two I have to say . PART III . THE ' Squire on a certain day , With men and dogs a hunting went , And having been long time at play , The dogs by fortune lost their scent ; Then running thro' this lonesome wood , These howling hungry dogs of prey , Came to the place , and there they stood , Just where the breathless bodies lay . But mounted on a stately steed , And thro' the woods they galloped ; The horse the bodies first espy'd , And very much was frightened ; At which he gave a sudden stride , And threw the 'Squire on the ground , A stump of bush stuck in his side , Whereby he god a mortal wound . His man he strove to help him up , But turning to him he replied ; Lend me your hand , I cannot stand , Then lay me by that woman's side . She was my wife , before the Lord , And that's my baby that lies dead , God's vengeance now hath followed me , And now hath fallen on my head . He kiss'd her lips , as cold as clay , Likewise to the child he as many gave , And to his man he thus did say , Let us be buried in one grave ? For here I cannot long remain , My cruel heart is split in twain , Dear Christ forgive my soul he said , So with a groan or two he died . Lord ! when this news was brought to town , Of this unhappy accident , His lady she distracted run , But first poor soul ! she gave consent . A coffin was made large and wide , And a grave was made to hold all three , The Lady she lies by his side , And thus I end my tragedy . You tender souls , of Christian hearts , Who hear these verses which I sing ; Remember that which I impart ; To love in vain is a cruel thing . Oh! be dutiful unto your friends , And never do as I have done , Let them that read the same , Think on us that are dead and gone . Printed and Sold at the Printing Office , in Stonecutter Street , Fleet Market , 