r-833v [ I ] The Sheeps Skin pull'd off from the Wolf's back : OR , The Uncasing of the KNIGHT . BEING A SATYRICAL COPY of VERSES ON The abominable and treasonable Practices of a Pagan Knight with a Christian Name , now in the TOWER . OF all the Plots we ever yet have read , That Jesuites hatch'd , or Hell it self has bred , No one like this did ever yet appear , Though this , of Plots , has been a fruitful year . The Pagan Knight , with Presbyterian Face , Shall 'mongst the Chief of Plotters have the place ; And in Hells deep Consults , there's none shall dare , If he be by , to step into the Chair . The King of Spain , and his proud vaunting Elves , Plotted our Ruin , but 'twas like themselves ; They came with Arms , with Halters , and with Knives , To kill the Men ; with Lust , t' abuse their Wives . The Pope , good man , plotted with bloody Knife , To take Elizabeth's Renowned Life ; With Curses , Dagger , Pistol , Poison too , He honestly did his Designs pursue . The Jesuits , of Hells Privy-Council sworn , And all the baldpate Priests that e'er were shorn , Plotted at once to blow into the Air The King , his Issue , Commons , every Peer ; And ( like the Tyrant , who but wish'd it ) so To cut a Kingdoms Head off at one Blow . Those Holy Father's , with their Secretary , Who with their Plots , at Tyburn did miscarry , Plotted to take our Sovereigns sacred Life By Pistol , or by Poison , Sword , or Knife ; Then to enslave the free Necks of a Nation , And to bring in a Popish Reformation : A Yet [ 2 ] Yet these come short of what this Knight would do , Who did more devilish Plots than these pursue ; For all their Plots this Knight had made his own , And them upon the Protestants had thrown . Thus , like a Wolf cloth [ ' ] worser in a white Sheeps Case , The Knight appears with Presbyterian Face ; With them he clubs , and hears them preach and pray , The better only that he might betray : For every night the Knight is brought to bed , Of all the Treacherous Issue of his head , By Mother Midnight , who the impious Brood Did into nursing Jesuits hands intrude . Hell such a pile of Villainy ne'er rear'd , And such a Plot as this was never herd , To clear the Guilty ( which the Devil ne'er meant ) And to accuse and damn the Innocent ; To hang up Dugdale , Bedloe , Smith , and Oats , And to make Protestants cut Protestants Throats ; To swear good Patriots honest Lives away , A List of which hidden in Meal-tub lay : To bring Fire , Sword , War , Dread , and Devastation , And to defile , with innocent blood , a Nation ; And then to set up th' Image of the Beast , To which all men must bow , or b'hang'd at least . But now the Wolf has lost his outward Case , And he appears with his own wolfish Face ; His Popish Claws and bloody Fangs are shown , The counterfeit Sheep for a mere Wolf is known ; And in the Tower secur'd ; he now between The Lions , Monsters , and worse Beasts is seen . Tho with a learn'd Astrologer , the Fate Of Kings and Kingdoms he did oft debate ; And though the Stars had others Fates made known , He never in those Books could read his own . But sometime Poets , who are Vates too , Can tell as much as Gadbury can do ; And they declare , the wolfish Knight will be , With several other Traitors , such as he , Who for such Practices in Holds are penned , Like wicked Vermin hang'd , next Parliament . FINIS . r-833v [ I ] The Sheeps Skin pull'd off from the Wolf's back : OR , The Uncasing of the KNIGHT . BEING A SATYRICAL COPY of VERSES ON The abominable and treasonable Practices of a Pagan Knight with a Christian Name , now in the TOWER . OF all the Plots we ever yet have read , That Jesuites hatch'd , or Hell it self has bred , No one like this did ever yet appear , Though this , of Plots , has been a fruitful year . The Pagan Knight , with Presbyterian Face , Shall 'mongst the Chief of Plotters have the place ; And in Hells deep Consults , there's none shall dare , If he be by , to step into the Chair . The King of Spain , and his proud vaunting Elves , Plotted our Ruin , but 'twas like themselves ; They came with Arms , with Halters , and with Knives , To kill the Men ; with Lust , t' abuse their Wives . The Pope , good man , plotted with bloody Knife , To take Elizabeth's Renowned Life ; With Curses , Dagger , Pistol , Poison too , He honestly did his Designs pursue . The Jesuits , of Hells Privy-Council sworn , And all the baldpate Priests that e'er were shorn , Plotted at once to blow into the Air The King , his Issue , Commons , every Peer ; And ( like the Tyrant , who but wish'd it ) so To cut a Kingdoms Head off at one Blow . Those Holy Father's , with their Secretary , Who with their Plots , at Tyburn did miscarry , Plotted to take our Sovereigns sacred Life By Pistol , or by Poison , Sword , or Knife ; Then to enslave the free Necks of a Nation , And to bring in a Popish Reformation : A Yet [ 2 ] Yet these come short of what this Knight would do , Who did more devilish Plots than these pursue ; For all their Plots this Knight had made his own , And them upon the Protestants had thrown . Thus , like a Wolf cloth [ ' ] worser in a white Sheeps Case , The Knight appears with Presbyterian Face ; With them he clubs , and hears them preach and pray , The better only that he might betray : For every night the Knight is brought to bed , Of all the Treacherous Issue of his head , By Mother Midnight , who the impious Brood Did into nursing Jesuits hands intrude . Hell such a pile of Villainy ne'er rear'd , And such a Plot as this was never herd , To clear the Guilty ( which the Devil ne'er meant ) And to accuse and damn the Innocent ; To hang up Dugdale , Bedloe , Smith , and Oats , And to make Protestants cut Protestants Throats ; To swear good Patriots honest Lives away , A List of which hidden in Meal-tub lay : To bring Fire , Sword , War , Dread , and Devastation , And to defile , with innocent blood , a Nation ; And then to set up th' Image of the Beast , To which all men must bow , or b'hang'd at least . But now the Wolf has lost his outward Case , And he appears with his own wolfish Face ; His Popish Claws and bloody Fangs are shown , The counterfeit Sheep for a mere Wolf is known ; And in the Tower secur'd ; he now between The Lions , Monsters , and worse Beasts is seen . Tho with a learn'd Astrologer , the Fate Of Kings and Kingdoms he did oft debate ; And though the Stars had others Fates made known , He never in those Books could read his own . But sometime Poets , who are Vates too , Can tell as much as Gadbury can do ; And they declare , the wolfish Knight will be , With several other Traitors , such as he , Who for such Practices in Holds are penned , Like wicked Vermin hang'd , next Parliament . FINIS . 