r-829v [ 1 ] Good Deeds ill Requited : OR , AND ANSWER TO INNOCENCE UNVEIL'D . BEING A POEM In Vindication of Dr. Oats and Mr. Bedloe . WIse Solomon has said , 'Tis sometime fit To answer one , that has nor Sense , nor Wit , Lest the vain Fop grow wise , in's own Conceit . A Poem ! Bless us , Muses ! railing Rhimes , Where Discord only , and no Music chimes : Where Malice , and no Wit or Sense is shown , And Puddle-dirt at worthy men is thrown . That mortal man in paltry Rhime should prate , Like a she-Orator of Billingsgate ; Who , if she ever did at Crambo play , Might rail in Rhime , and better things would say . Poor quibbling Fool did lack some Oaten drink , To help inspire his wooden Wit , I think , Who his fine Poem usher'd ( out upon't ! ) With a most silly Quibble in the Front . Those very Men his Worship termeth Fools Handle edge , better than he rhyming , tools : And though these men he Saviours calls in scorn , And does with Coxcombs , Fools , and Knaves , adorn His railing Verse ; they shall in Story dwell In Heav'nly Fame , like Angels that ne'er fell , While such as he lie in Oblivions Hell . What Stuff he's made of , all the world may see ; But Jesuit's Heart won't with Fool's Brain agree . A We [ 2 ] We can his Spleen however well detect ; Their Evidence he'd make of no effect . At that alone his squinting Verses look , A safer way indeed than Reading took : But 'twill not do ; his Rhymes do Reason lack , For all the Law , of which you so much crack ; The Foil'd may rise , and lay some on their back . Touch the gall'd back of any furious Beast , He'll bite and kick , or wince and fling at least ; And he that meddles , when the Beast does feel , Had need be guarded well , 'gainst iron heel . I am no Surgeon , and shan't rake in Soar ; The World have Eyes , and I shall say no more . If some say Black is White , I am content , Or call a running Soar and Ornament . The Roman did not cackling Geese despise , Who kept their Capitol from a Surprise : But we fling Dirt at men , like unwise Sots , Who have the Nation sav'd from Jesuits Plots . Since Jesuits can't the Nation now crepan , They'll do it all the Mischief that they can , And with foul Mouths , worse Pens , and lying Notes , Rail with full Cry , at Bedloe , and at Oats . Who will hereafter Traitors Plots make known , If no Encouragement to these are shown ? When scurrilous Pamphleteers shall daily try To make their Evidence to seem a Lie ; To make them Jugglers , wicked , perjur'd Knaves , Inventors of strange Plots , the worst of Slaves ; Men who of right by us should honour'd be , Their Names made great to all Posterity ; And for Encouragement , and greater Grace , Their Statues set up in some public place . Whate'er that scribbling Poetaster writes , Those very Commons which his Worship slights , May in good time make Truth and Justice known ; And who the Knaves are then , will best be shown . Then Oats and Bedloe's Story will be told , And 'twill appear they have not been too bold , But that both Truth and Justice once was sold . FINIS . r-829v [ 1 ] Good Deeds ill Requited : OR , AND ANSWER TO INNOCENCE UNVEIL'D . BEING A POEM In Vindication of Dr. Oats and Mr. Bedloe . WIse Solomon has said , 'Tis sometime fit To answer one , that has nor Sense , nor Wit , Lest the vain Fop grow wise , in's own Conceit . A Poem ! Bless us , Muses ! railing Rhimes , Where Discord only , and no Music chimes : Where Malice , and no Wit or Sense is shown , And Puddle-dirt at worthy men is thrown . That mortal man in paltry Rhime should prate , Like a she-Orator of Billingsgate ; Who , if she ever did at Crambo play , Might rail in Rhime , and better things would say . Poor quibbling Fool did lack some Oaten drink , To help inspire his wooden Wit , I think , Who his fine Poem usher'd ( out upon't ! ) With a most silly Quibble in the Front . Those very Men his Worship termeth Fools Handle edge , better than he rhyming , tools : And though these men he Saviours calls in scorn , And does with Coxcombs , Fools , and Knaves , adorn His railing Verse ; they shall in Story dwell In Heav'nly Fame , like Angels that ne'er fell , While such as he lie in Oblivions Hell . What Stuff he's made of , all the world may see ; But Jesuit's Heart won't with Fool's Brain agree . A We [ 2 ] We can his Spleen however well detect ; Their Evidence he'd make of no effect . At that alone his squinting Verses look , A safer way indeed than Reading took : But 'twill not do ; his Rhymes do Reason lack , For all the Law , of which you so much crack ; The Foil'd may rise , and lay some on their back . Touch the gall'd back of any furious Beast , He'll bite and kick , or wince and fling at least ; And he that meddles , when the Beast does feel , Had need be guarded well , 'gainst iron heel . I am no Surgeon , and shan't rake in Soar ; The World have Eyes , and I shall say no more . If some say Black is White , I am content , Or call a running Soar and Ornament . The Roman did not cackling Geese despise , Who kept their Capitol from a Surprise : But we fling Dirt at men , like unwise Sots , Who have the Nation sav'd from Jesuits Plots . Since Jesuits can't the Nation now crepan , They'll do it all the Mischief that they can , And with foul Mouths , worse Pens , and lying Notes , Rail with full Cry , at Bedloe , and at Oats . Who will hereafter Traitors Plots make known , If no Encouragement to these are shown ? When scurrilous Pamphleteers shall daily try To make their Evidence to seem a Lie ; To make them Jugglers , wicked , perjur'd Knaves , Inventors of strange Plots , the worst of Slaves ; Men who of right by us should honour'd be , Their Names made great to all Posterity ; And for Encouragement , and greater Grace , Their Statues set up in some public place . Whate'er that scribbling Poetaster writes , Those very Commons which his Worship slights , May in good time make Truth and Justice known ; And who the Knaves are then , will best be shown . Then Oats and Bedloe's Story will be told , And 'twill appear they have not been too bold , But that both Truth and Justice once was sold . FINIS . 