TRUE LOVE Requited ; Or , The BAILIFF'S DAUGHTER of Islington : The young man's friends the maid did scorn , 'Cause she was poor and left forlorn , They sent the Squire to London fair , To be apprentice seven Years : And when he out of his Time did come , He met his Love a going home , And then to end all further strife , He took the Maid to be his Wife . THERE was a Youth , and a well-beloved Youth , And he was a 'Squire's son , He lov'd the Bailiff's Daughter dear , That liv'd in Islington . She was coy , and she would not believe , That he did love her so ; No , nor at any time would she Any countenance to him show . But when his friends did understand His found and foolish mind , They sent him up to fair London , And Apprentice for to bind . And when he had been seven long years , And his Love he had not seen , Many a tear I have shed for her sake , When she little thought of me . When all the maids of fair Islington Went forth to sport and play ; All but the Bailiff's Daughter dear , She secretly stole away . She put off her gown of gray , And put on her ragged attire , And she is up to fair London gone , After her true love to inquire . And as she went along the road , The weather being hight and dry , There was she aware of her own true love , At length came riding by . She stepped to him as read as a rose , And took him by the bridle ring : I pray you kind sir , give me one penny For to ease my weary limb . I prithee , sweetheart , can'st thou tell me , Whereat thou wast born ? At Islington , kind Sir , said she , Where I have had many a scorn . I prithee Sweetheart , can'st thou tell me Whither that thou dost know , The Bailiff's Daughter of Islington ? She is dead , sir , long ago . Then will I fell my goodly steed , My saddle and my boy , And travel into some fair country , Where no man does me know . O stay , Oh stay , thou goodly Youth , She is alive , she is not dead ; Here she stands by thy side , And is ready to be thy bride . O farewell grief , and welcome joy , Ten thousand times and more ; For now I see my own true love That I thought I should ne'er see more . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow-Lane , London . TRUE LOVE Requited ; Or , The BAILIFF'S DAUGHTER of Islington : The young man's friends the maid did scorn , 'Cause she was poor and left forlorn , They sent the Squire to London fair , To be apprentice seven Years : And when he out of his Time did come , He met his Love a going home , And then to end all further strife , He took the Maid to be his Wife . THERE was a Youth , and a well-beloved Youth , And he was a 'Squire's son , He lov'd the Bailiff's Daughter dear , That liv'd in Islington . She was coy , and she would not believe , That he did love her so ; No , nor at any time would she Any countenance to him show . But when his friends did understand His found and foolish mind , They sent him up to fair London , And Apprentice for to bind . And when he had been seven long years , And his Love he had not seen , Many a tear I have shed for her sake , When she little thought of me . When all the maids of fair Islington Went forth to sport and play ; All but the Bailiff's Daughter dear , She secretly stole away . She put off her gown of gray , And put on her ragged attire , And she is up to fair London gone , After her true love to inquire . And as she went along the road , The weather being hight and dry , There was she aware of her own true love , At length came riding by . She stepped to him as read as a rose , And took him by the bridle ring : I pray you kind sir , give me one penny For to ease my weary limb . I prithee , sweetheart , can'st thou tell me , Whereat thou wast born ? At Islington , kind Sir , said she , Where I have had many a scorn . I prithee Sweetheart , can'st thou tell me Whither that thou dost know , The Bailiff's Daughter of Islington ? She is dead , sir , long ago . Then will I fell my goodly steed , My saddle and my boy , And travel into some fair country , Where no man does me know . O stay , Oh stay , thou goodly Youth , She is alive , she is not dead ; Here she stands by thy side , And is ready to be thy bride . O farewell grief , and welcome joy , Ten thousand times and more ; For now I see my own true love That I thought I should ne'er see more . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow-Lane , London . 