THE RARE SHOW . HERE be the var Pretty Show just come from Parrie , Me show you , Shentlemans , to make you merry ! O rare Show , Oh var pretty Show , who see my fine dainty Show . Here be the great Spring that dance de Mashien , On which the Lo-dores be most plainly seen ; Oh rare Show , etc Here first me present you with a Dismal Disaster , De Servant be hanged for saving his Master ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Great Marlbro' , who all the World knows , Was baniste for saucily beating his Foes : Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Great Or --- worser , made Gen --- l in Season , Prohibited Fighting to bring F --- ce to Reason ; Oh rare Show , etc Here B-tt-n with Sacred Regard to Alliance , Breaks Treaties to strengthen the Bound of Affiance ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the var fine Politicians dispatched To Paris , to treat of a P --- ce da dar-hatchad ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Congrase all Utrick var noting is brouded , De Plenipo's meet to do what is concluded ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be de no dar more Pretty Transaction , To give Lewis all , gives Allies Satisfaction ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Politic Harlinquine , mind him , You never shall twice in the same Posture find him ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Addresses to be Throne of Great B-tt-n , Say Here-da-tory writ will make Hanover fit onte ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the good Prodestante that loves no Priest Jerkin , To save his Religion looks to Lewis or Perkin ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the de wise Politicians that said it , That sinking of Debts was restoring of Credit ; Oh rare Show , etc Here to preserve the Consultation of B-tt-n , A whole Dozein of Lords was made at one sitting ; G rare Show , etc Here be the Cabal of Whigs that are brought on , A hatching a Plot that no Soul ever thought on ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Fifry Pounds for one of Paul's Screws , Which had da been all gone , had never hurt de Pews ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Five Hundred Pounds for taking Mac Cartney , Dis must be anodar Plot de Rewards bid so hearty : Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Bandbox and Inkhorns , since the good Man sur - viv'd it , Dis not wort one Brass Fardin to know who contriv'd it ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Duc d'A-nt's whole Seller of Claret , Burned b de Plot laid as high as de Gurrett ; Oh rare Show , etc He be the Five Hundred Pounds for the Letter that told it , Do his Straw Garitteers can most likely unfold it ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Skeleton do no more dan his License intended , By Advertisements and Swearing is nobly defended ; Oh rare Show , etc Here he also the good Folk that on no Plot did tink , Until Skelton and Lewis thus stirr'd up a Stink ; Oh rare Show , etc Now give a Laarjon , and when we have god 'em , Me show you the Shevaler de St. George at the Bottom ; Oh rare Show , Oh var Pretty Show , who see my fine [ s ] how dainty show ? Dare is all , Shentlemans ; what say you now ? Huzza ! Huzza ! Huzza ! Shentlemans I thank you : God bless you all , from the Pope , de Devil , and the Pretender , and all De great Rogues in Engaland . THE RARE SHOW . HERE be the var Pretty Show just come from Parrie , Me show you , Shentlemans , to make you merry ! O rare Show , Oh var pretty Show , who see my fine dainty Show . Here be the great Spring that dance de Mashien , On which the Lo-dores be most plainly seen ; Oh rare Show , etc Here first me present you with a Dismal Disaster , De Servant be hanged for saving his Master ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Great Marlbro' , who all the World knows , Was baniste for saucily beating his Foes : Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Great Or --- worser , made Gen --- l in Season , Prohibited Fighting to bring F --- ce to Reason ; Oh rare Show , etc Here B-tt-n with Sacred Regard to Alliance , Breaks Treaties to strengthen the Bound of Affiance ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the var fine Politicians dispatched To Paris , to treat of a P --- ce da dar-hatchad ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Congrase all Utrick var noting is brouded , De Plenipo's meet to do what is concluded ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be de no dar more Pretty Transaction , To give Lewis all , gives Allies Satisfaction ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Politic Harlinquine , mind him , You never shall twice in the same Posture find him ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Addresses to be Throne of Great B-tt-n , Say Here-da-tory writ will make Hanover fit onte ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the good Prodestante that loves no Priest Jerkin , To save his Religion looks to Lewis or Perkin ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the de wise Politicians that said it , That sinking of Debts was restoring of Credit ; Oh rare Show , etc Here to preserve the Consultation of B-tt-n , A whole Dozein of Lords was made at one sitting ; G rare Show , etc Here be the Cabal of Whigs that are brought on , A hatching a Plot that no Soul ever thought on ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Fifry Pounds for one of Paul's Screws , Which had da been all gone , had never hurt de Pews ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Five Hundred Pounds for taking Mac Cartney , Dis must be anodar Plot de Rewards bid so hearty : Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Bandbox and Inkhorns , since the good Man sur - viv'd it , Dis not wort one Brass Fardin to know who contriv'd it ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Duc d'A-nt's whole Seller of Claret , Burned b de Plot laid as high as de Gurrett ; Oh rare Show , etc He be the Five Hundred Pounds for the Letter that told it , Do his Straw Garitteers can most likely unfold it ; Oh rare Show , etc Here be the Skeleton do no more dan his License intended , By Advertisements and Swearing is nobly defended ; Oh rare Show , etc Here he also the good Folk that on no Plot did tink , Until Skelton and Lewis thus stirr'd up a Stink ; Oh rare Show , etc Now give a Laarjon , and when we have god 'em , Me show you the Shevaler de St. George at the Bottom ; Oh rare Show , Oh var Pretty Show , who see my fine [ s ] how dainty show ? Dare is all , Shentlemans ; what say you now ? Huzza ! Huzza ! Huzza ! Shentlemans I thank you : God bless you all , from the Pope , de Devil , and the Pretender , and all De great Rogues in Engaland . 