THE DOWNFALL OF COCKBURN's MEETING-HOUSE . To the Tune of , Come fit thee down my Phillis . ( I ) WE have not yet forgotten Sir , How Cobburn's Kirk was broke Sir , The Pulpit-Gown was pulled down , And turned into nought Sir . ( 2 ) The Pulpit-Cloth was rend Sir , Unto the Cross was sent Sir , The Boys that did convoy it Were into Prison put Sir . ( 3 ) The Chess-windows they were broke Sir , Out o're the Window cast Sir , With a convoy of holo hoi , Unto the Streets were sent Sir . ( 4 ) The French are disappointed , Their Wicked Plots disjointed , Poor Cobburn he's affronted , But the Whiggs they're advanced . ( 5 ) Long necked Peggie H ------------- Sir , Did weep and stay at home Sir , 'Cause poor Cobburn and his Wife Were forc'd to flee the Town Sir , ( 6 ) And after they were gone Sir , They went to Stirling Town Sir , They thought with their Heart and Mind To get Poor Jamie home Sir . ( 7 ) But they were disappointed , And their Wicked Plots disjointed , We'll make them all run and Cry Oh! we're disappointed . ( 8 ) Their Highland King for fear Sir , Was put in such a stier Sir , We made his Breecks have such stink , That none cou'd him come near Sir . ( 9 ) Macdonald is his Name Sir , Of him you may think shame Sir , A Highlander whose Name stinks You Popish Rogue go Home Sir . ( 10 ) The Chess-windows did reel Sir , Like to a Spinning Wheel Sir ; For Dagon he is fall'n now I hope he'll never rise Sir . FINIS . THE DOWNFALL OF COCKBURN's MEETING-HOUSE . To the Tune of , Come fit thee down my Phillis . ( I ) WE have not yet forgotten Sir , How Cobburn's Kirk was broke Sir , The Pulpit-Gown was pulled down , And turned into nought Sir . ( 2 ) The Pulpit-Cloth was rend Sir , Unto the Cross was sent Sir , The Boys that did convoy it Were into Prison put Sir . ( 3 ) The Chess-windows they were broke Sir , Out o're the Window cast Sir , With a convoy of holo hoi , Unto the Streets were sent Sir . ( 4 ) The French are disappointed , Their Wicked Plots disjointed , Poor Cobburn he's affronted , But the Whiggs they're advanced . ( 5 ) Long necked Peggie H ------------- Sir , Did weep and stay at home Sir , 'Cause poor Cobburn and his Wife Were forc'd to flee the Town Sir , ( 6 ) And after they were gone Sir , They went to Stirling Town Sir , They thought with their Heart and Mind To get Poor Jamie home Sir . ( 7 ) But they were disappointed , And their Wicked Plots disjointed , We'll make them all run and Cry Oh! we're disappointed . ( 8 ) Their Highland King for fear Sir , Was put in such a stier Sir , We made his Breecks have such stink , That none cou'd him come near Sir . ( 9 ) Macdonald is his Name Sir , Of him you may think shame Sir , A Highlander whose Name stinks You Popish Rogue go Home Sir . ( 10 ) The Chess-windows did reel Sir , Like to a Spinning Wheel Sir ; For Dagon he is fall'n now I hope he'll never rise Sir . FINIS . 