A Very Heroical EPISTLE FROM MY Lord ALL-PRIDE to DOL-COMMON . The ARGUMENT . Dol-Common being forsaken by my Lord All-pride , and having written him a most lamentable Letter , his Lordship sends her the fol - lowing answer . IF you're deceived , it is not by my cheat , For all disguises are below the great . What Man or Woman upon earth can say I ever us'd 'em well above a day ? How is it then that I inconstant am ? He changes not , who always is the same . In my dear self , I centre every thing , My Servants , Friends , my Mistress , and my King , Nay Heaven and earth to that one point I bring . Well-manner'd , honest , generous and stout , ( Names by dull Fools to plague mankind found out ) Should I regard , I must my self constrain , And 'tis my maxim to avoid all pain . You fondly look for what none e're could find Deceive your self , and then call me unkind ; And by false reasons would my falsehood prove , For 'tis as natural to change as Love . You may as justly at the Sun repine Because alike it does not always shine . No glorious thing was ever made to stay , My Blazing Star but visits and away ; As Fatal too , it shines as those i'th' skies , 'Tis never seen but some great Lady die . The boasted favour you so precious hold To me's no more than changing of my gold . What e're you gave , I paid you back in bliss , Then where's the obligation , pray , of this ? If heretofore you found grace in my eyes , Be thankful for it , and let that suffice . But Women Beggarlike , still haunt the door Where they've receiv'd a Charity before . O happy Sultan ! whom we barbarous call , How much refin'd art thou above us all ! Who envies not the joys of thy Serrail ! Thee , like some God , the trembling crowd adore , Each man's thy slave , and Womankind thy Whore . Methinks I see thee underneath the shade Of golden Canopies supinely laid ; Thy crouching slaves all silent as the night , But at thy nod all active as the light . Secure in solid Sloth thou there dost reign , And feel'st the joys of love without thy pain . Each Female courts thee with a wishing eye , While thou with awful pride walk'st careless by . Till thy kind pledge at last mark's out the Dame Thou fanciest most to quench thy present flame . Then from thy bed submissive she retires , And thankful for thy grace no more requires . No loud reproach , nor found unwelcome found Of Women's tongues thy sacred ear dares wound . If any do , a nimble Mute straight tye's The true love knot , and stops her foolish cries . Thou fear'st no injur'd Kinsman's threatening blade , Nor Midnight ambushes by Rivals laid . While here with aching hearts our joys we taste Disturb'd by Swords like Damocles his feast , Epigram upon my Lord All-pride . Bursting with pride the loath'd Imposture swel's , Prick him he shed's his venom straight and smel's , But is so lewd , a Scribbler that he writes With as much force to nature as he fights . Harden'd in shame , 'tis such a baffled Fop That every Schoolboy whips him like a Top. And with his arm and heart his brain's so weak , That his starv'd fancy is compell'd to rake Among the excrements of others wit To make a stinking meal of what they shit . So Swine for nasty meat to dunghills run , And toss their gruntling Snouts up when they've done . Against his stars the Coxcomb ever strives , And to be something they forbid contrives . With a read Nose , splayfoot , and goggle eye , A plowman's looby meen , face all awry , A filthy breath , and every loathsome mark The Punchinello set's up for a Spark . With equal self-conceit he takes up arms , But with such vile success his part perform's , That he burlesque's the trade , and what is best In others , turn's like Harlequin to jest . So have I seen at Smithfield's wondrous fair ( When all his Brother Monsters flourish there ) A lubbard Elephant divert the Town With making legs and shooting off a gun . Go where he will he never find's a Friend , Shame and derision all his steps attend , Alike abroad , at home , i'th Camp and Court This Knight-o'th' burning pestle makes us sport . Printed in the Year , 1679. A Very Heroical EPISTLE FROM MY Lord ALL-PRIDE to DOL-COMMON . The ARGUMENT . Dol-Common being forsaken by my Lord All-pride , and having written him a most lamentable Letter , his Lordship sends her the fol - lowing answer . IF you're deceived , it is not by my cheat , For all disguises are below the great . What Man or Woman upon earth can say I ever us'd 'em well above a day ? How is it then that I inconstant am ? He changes not , who always is the same . In my dear self , I centre every thing , My Servants , Friends , my Mistress , and my King , Nay Heaven and earth to that one point I bring . Well-manner'd , honest , generous and stout , ( Names by dull Fools to plague mankind found out ) Should I regard , I must my self constrain , And 'tis my maxim to avoid all pain . You fondly look for what none e're could find Deceive your self , and then call me unkind ; And by false reasons would my falsehood prove , For 'tis as natural to change as Love . You may as justly at the Sun repine Because alike it does not always shine . No glorious thing was ever made to stay , My Blazing Star but visits and away ; As Fatal too , it shines as those i'th' skies , 'Tis never seen but some great Lady die . The boasted favour you so precious hold To me's no more than changing of my gold . What e're you gave , I paid you back in bliss , Then where's the obligation , pray , of this ? If heretofore you found grace in my eyes , Be thankful for it , and let that suffice . But Women Beggarlike , still haunt the door Where they've receiv'd a Charity before . O happy Sultan ! whom we barbarous call , How much refin'd art thou above us all ! Who envies not the joys of thy Serrail ! Thee , like some God , the trembling crowd adore , Each man's thy slave , and Womankind thy Whore . Methinks I see thee underneath the shade Of golden Canopies supinely laid ; Thy crouching slaves all silent as the night , But at thy nod all active as the light . Secure in solid Sloth thou there dost reign , And feel'st the joys of love without thy pain . Each Female courts thee with a wishing eye , While thou with awful pride walk'st careless by . Till thy kind pledge at last mark's out the Dame Thou fanciest most to quench thy present flame . Then from thy bed submissive she retires , And thankful for thy grace no more requires . No loud reproach , nor found unwelcome found Of Women's tongues thy sacred ear dares wound . If any do , a nimble Mute straight tye's The true love knot , and stops her foolish cries . Thou fear'st no injur'd Kinsman's threatening blade , Nor Midnight ambushes by Rivals laid . While here with aching hearts our joys we taste Disturb'd by Swords like Damocles his feast , Epigram upon my Lord All-pride . Bursting with pride the loath'd Imposture swel's , Prick him he shed's his venom straight and smel's , But is so lewd , a Scribbler that he writes With as much force to nature as he fights . Harden'd in shame , 'tis such a baffled Fop That every Schoolboy whips him like a Top. And with his arm and heart his brain's so weak , That his starv'd fancy is compell'd to rake Among the excrements of others wit To make a stinking meal of what they shit . So Swine for nasty meat to dunghills run , And toss their gruntling Snouts up when they've done . Against his stars the Coxcomb ever strives , And to be something they forbid contrives . With a read Nose , splayfoot , and goggle eye , A plowman's looby meen , face all awry , A filthy breath , and every loathsome mark The Punchinello set's up for a Spark . With equal self-conceit he takes up arms , But with such vile success his part perform's , That he burlesque's the trade , and what is best In others , turn's like Harlequin to jest . So have I seen at Smithfield's wondrous fair ( When all his Brother Monsters flourish there ) A lubbard Elephant divert the Town With making legs and shooting off a gun . Go where he will he never find's a Friend , Shame and derision all his steps attend , Alike abroad , at home , i'th Camp and Court This Knight-o'th' burning pestle makes us sport . Printed in the Year , 1679. 