CHRIST's KIRK on the GREEN ; In Two CANTO's . CANTO the First , by King JAMES the Fifth . WAS ne'er in Scotland herd nor seen Such Dancing and Deray ? Neither at Faulkland on the Green , Nor Peebles at the Play , As was of Wooers as I ween At Christ's Kirk on a Day ; For there came Katie washen clean With her new Gown of Gray , Full Gay that Day . To Dance these Damosels them Dight , These Lasses light of Laits , Their Gloves were of the Raffal right , Their Shoes were of the Straits ; Their Kirtles were of Lincoln light , Well pressed with many Plaits ; They were so nice when Men they neigh'd They squell'd like any Gaits . Full loud that Day . Of all these Maidens mild as Mead , Was none so gimp as Gillie , As any Rose her Rude was read , Her Lire was like the Lily , But Yellow , Yellow , was her Head , And she of Love so silly , Tho' all her Kind had sworn her Dead , She would have none but Willie Alone that Day . She scorn'd Jack , and scripp'd at him , And murgeon'd him with Mucks' ; He would have lov'd her , she would not let him For all his yellow Locks , He cherish'd her , she bade go chat him , She counted him not two Clocks : So shamefully his short Jack set him , His Legs were like two Rocks , Or Rungs that Day . Tom Lutter was their Minstrel meet , Good Lord , how he could Lance ; He play'd so Shrill , and Sang so Sweet While Tousie took a Trance : Old Lightfoot there he could forleet , And counterfitted France , He held him like a Man discreet , And up the Morris Dance , He took that Day . Then Stephen came stepping in with stends No Ring might him arrest ; Splayfoot did bob with many bends , For Masie he made Request , He lap while he lay on his lends , And rising was so pressed , While he did boast at both the Ends For Honour of the Feast , And Danc'd that Day . Then Robin Roy began to revel , And Tousie to him drugged : Let be , quoth Jack , and call'd him Jevel , And by the Tail him rugged , Then Kensie clicked to a Kevel , God wots as they two lugged : They parted there upon a Nevel , Men say , that Hair was rugged Between them Twa . With that a Friend of his cray'd fie , And forth and Arrow drew , He forged it so fiercefully , The Bow in flinders flew , Such was the Grace of God , trow I , For had the Tree been true ; Men said , who knew his Archery , That he had slave anew , Believe that Day . A yap young Man that stood him neist , Soon bent his Bow in ire , And etled the Bairn in at the Breast , The Bolt flew ov'r the Bire : And cry'd fie , he hath Slave a Priest A Mile beyond the Mire : Both Bow and Bagg from him he kiest , And fled as fast as Fire From Flint that Day . And hasty Kinsman call'd Hary , That was and Archer keen , Tied up a Tackle withouten tarry , I trow the Man was teen : I wot not whither his Hand did vary , Or his Foe was his Friend : But he escap'd by the Mights of Mary As one that nothing mean'd But good that Day . Then Lawrie like a Lion lap , And soon a Flain could fedder : He height to pierce him at the Pape , Thereon to wed a Wedder : He hit him on the Wamb a wap , It buff't like any Bladder . He escaped so , such was his hap ; His Doulbet was of Leather Full fine that Day . The Buff so boisterously abaist him , That he to the Earth dusht down , The other Man for Dead there left him , And fled out of the Town . The Wives came forth , and up they rest him And found Life in the Lown ; Then with three routs they raised him And cur'd him out of sown , From Hand that Day . The Miller was of manly make , To meet him it was no Mowes : There durst not Ten some there him take So cowed be their Powes , The Bushment whole about him brake And bicker'd him with Bows , Then traitorously behind his Back , They hack'd him on the Howes Behind that Day . Then Hutchon with a Hazel Rice To read gan through them rummil : He muddl'd them down like any Mice He was no petty bummil , Tho' he was Wight , he was not Wise , With such jutors to jummil : For from his Thumb there flew a slice , While he cry'd barlasummil , I'm Slave this Day . When that he saw his Blood so read To flee might no Man let him : He trow'd it had been for old feed ; He thought and bade have at him . He made his Feet defend his Head , The far fairer it set him , While he was passed out of their Dread : They must be swift that got him . Through Speed that Day Two that were Heads men of the Heard , They rush'd on other like Rams : The other Four which were unfear'd Beat on with Barrow Trams . And where their gobs they were ungear'd They got upon the Gams , While that all Bloody was their Beards , As they had worried Lambs , Most l [ i ] ke that Day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , Each Gossip other grieved : Some striked Stings , some gathered Stanes , Some fled , and some Relieved . The Minstrel used quiet Means , That Day he wisely 'prieved , For he came hame with unbruis'd Banes , Where Fighters were mischiev'd , Full ill that Day . With Forks and Flails they lent them slaps And flew together with Frigs ; With Bougers of Barns they pierc'd blue Caps And of their Bairns made Brigs : The Rare rose rudely with their Raps , Then Rungs were laid on Rigs : The Wives came forth with Cries and Claps , See where my Liking Ligs , Full low this Day . The black Souter of Braith was bowden , His Wife hang at his Ways His Body was in Black all browden , He girned like a Ghost . Her glittering Hair was so gowden , Her Love fast from him Laist , That for his Sake she was unyawden , While he a Mile was chaste , And more that Day . When they had beir'd like baited Bulls , The Bonfires burned like Bails , And then they grew as meek as Mules That wearied are with Mails ; For those forfoughten tired Fools , Fell down like slaughter'd Frails , Fresh Men came in and hail'd the Dools , And dang them down in Dails , Bedeen that Day . The Wives then gave a hideous yell , When all these Yonkiers yoked , As fierce as Flags of Fire flaughts fell , Frieks to the Field they fl [ oh ] cked , The Carls with Clubs did others quell On Breast while Blood out boaked , So rudely rang the Common bell , That all the Steeple rocked For Dread that Day . By this Tom Tailor was in his Gear , When he herd the Common bell , He said , he should make all a Steer When he came there himself , He went to fight with such a Fear , While to the Ground he fell , A Wife that hat him on the Ear , With a great knocking-Mell , Fell'd him that Day . The Bridegroom brought a Pint of Ale , And bade the Piper Drink it , Drink it quoth he , and it so Stale , Ashrew me if I think it . The Bride her Maidens stood near by , And said , it was not Blinked , And Bartagesie the Bride so gay , Upon him fast she winked Full soon that Day . When all was done Dick with and Ax Came forth to fell a Father , Quoth he , where are you whoreson smaiks Right now that hurt my Brother ? His Wife bade him go hame Gib Glaiks , And so did Meg his Mother ; He turn'd and gave them both their Parks For he durst ding not other , But them that Day . The END of the First CANTO . Canto II by Allan Ramsey . Consider it werly , Read oftener than anys , Wiel at and Blink sle Poetry not Taken is . G. DOUGLAS . BUT there had been more Blood and Skaith Sair Harship and great Spulzie , And money a ane had got his Death By this unfonsie Tooly : But that the bald Goodwife of Braith Arm'd with a great Kale Gully , Came Belsy slaught and loot and Aith She'd gar them a be holy , Fou fast that Day . Blyth to win aff sae wl hale Bones , Tho' money had clowr'd Pows , And dragl'd sae 'mang Muck and Stanes They look'd like wirry Kows : Quoth some who 'malst had tint their Aynds , Let's see how a Bowls rows , And quat this Brouillement at anes , You Gul [ l ] y is nae Mows . Forsooth this Day . Quoth Hutchon , I am well content , I think we may do war , 'Till this Time Toumond I'se indent Our Claiths of Dirt will sa'r : With Nevels I'm a mayest fawn faint , My Chafts are dung a char : Then took his Bonnet , to the Bent And dadded aff the Glar , Fou clean that Day . Tam Taylor wha in Time of Battle Lay as gin some had fell'd him , Got up now with and unky Rattle , As nane there durst a quell'd him ; Bald Bess flew till him with a Brattle , And spite of's Teeth she held him Closs by the Craig , and with her fatal Knife Shoar'd She would Geld him , For Peace that Day . Sin e with ae Consent shook Hands , As they stood in a Ring ; Some red their Hair , some set their Bans , Some did their Sark Tails wring ; Then for a Hap CHRIST's KIRK on the GREEN ; In Two CANTO's . CANTO the First , by King JAMES the Fifth . WAS ne'er in Scotland herd nor seen Such Dancing and Deray ? Neither at Faulkland on the Green , Nor Peebles at the Play , As was of Wooers as I ween At Christ's Kirk on a Day ; For there came Katie washen clean With her new Gown of Gray , Full Gay that Day . To Dance these Damosels them Dight , These Lasses light of Laits , Their Gloves were of the Raffal right , Their Shoes were of the Straits ; Their Kirtles were of Lincoln light , Well pressed with many Plaits ; They were so nice when Men they neigh'd They squell'd like any Gaits . Full loud that Day . Of all these Maidens mild as Mead , Was none so gimp as Gillie , As any Rose her Rude was read , Her Lire was like the Lily , But Yellow , Yellow , was her Head , And she of Love so silly , Tho' all her Kind had sworn her Dead , She would have none but Willie Alone that Day . She scorn'd Jack , and scripp'd at him , And murgeon'd him with Mucks' ; He would have lov'd her , she would not let him For all his yellow Locks , He cherish'd her , she bade go chat him , She counted him not two Clocks : So shamefully his short Jack set him , His Legs were like two Rocks , Or Rungs that Day . Tom Lutter was their Minstrel meet , Good Lord , how he could Lance ; He play'd so Shrill , and Sang so Sweet While Tousie took a Trance : Old Lightfoot there he could forleet , And counterfitted France , He held him like a Man discreet , And up the Morris Dance , He took that Day . Then Stephen came stepping in with stends No Ring might him arrest ; Splayfoot did bob with many bends , For Masie he made Request , He lap while he lay on his lends , And rising was so pressed , While he did boast at both the Ends For Honour of the Feast , And Danc'd that Day . Then Robin Roy began to revel , And Tousie to him drugged : Let be , quoth Jack , and call'd him Jevel , And by the Tail him rugged , Then Kensie clicked to a Kevel , God wots as they two lugged : They parted there upon a Nevel , Men say , that Hair was rugged Between them Twa . With that a Friend of his cray'd fie , And forth and Arrow drew , He forged it so fiercefully , The Bow in flinders flew , Such was the Grace of God , trow I , For had the Tree been true ; Men said , who knew his Archery , That he had slave anew , Believe that Day . A yap young Man that stood him neist , Soon bent his Bow in ire , And etled the Bairn in at the Breast , The Bolt flew ov'r the Bire : And cry'd fie , he hath Slave a Priest A Mile beyond the Mire : Both Bow and Bagg from him he kiest , And fled as fast as Fire From Flint that Day . And hasty Kinsman call'd Hary , That was and Archer keen , Tied up a Tackle withouten tarry , I trow the Man was teen : I wot not whither his Hand did vary , Or his Foe was his Friend : But he escap'd by the Mights of Mary As one that nothing mean'd But good that Day . Then Lawrie like a Lion lap , And soon a Flain could fedder : He height to pierce him at the Pape , Thereon to wed a Wedder : He hit him on the Wamb a wap , It buff't like any Bladder . He escaped so , such was his hap ; His Doulbet was of Leather Full fine that Day . The Buff so boisterously abaist him , That he to the Earth dusht down , The other Man for Dead there left him , And fled out of the Town . The Wives came forth , and up they rest him And found Life in the Lown ; Then with three routs they raised him And cur'd him out of sown , From Hand that Day . The Miller was of manly make , To meet him it was no Mowes : There durst not Ten some there him take So cowed be their Powes , The Bushment whole about him brake And bicker'd him with Bows , Then traitorously behind his Back , They hack'd him on the Howes Behind that Day . Then Hutchon with a Hazel Rice To read gan through them rummil : He muddl'd them down like any Mice He was no petty bummil , Tho' he was Wight , he was not Wise , With such jutors to jummil : For from his Thumb there flew a slice , While he cry'd barlasummil , I'm Slave this Day . When that he saw his Blood so read To flee might no Man let him : He trow'd it had been for old feed ; He thought and bade have at him . He made his Feet defend his Head , The far fairer it set him , While he was passed out of their Dread : They must be swift that got him . Through Speed that Day Two that were Heads men of the Heard , They rush'd on other like Rams : The other Four which were unfear'd Beat on with Barrow Trams . And where their gobs they were ungear'd They got upon the Gams , While that all Bloody was their Beards , As they had worried Lambs , Most l [ i ] ke that Day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , Each Gossip other grieved : Some striked Stings , some gathered Stanes , Some fled , and some Relieved . The Minstrel used quiet Means , That Day he wisely 'prieved , For he came hame with unbruis'd Banes , Where Fighters were mischiev'd , Full ill that Day . With Forks and Flails they lent them slaps And flew together with Frigs ; With Bougers of Barns they pierc'd blue Caps And of their Bairns made Brigs : The Rare rose rudely with their Raps , Then Rungs were laid on Rigs : The Wives came forth with Cries and Claps , See where my Liking Ligs , Full low this Day . The black Souter of Braith was bowden , His Wife hang at his Ways His Body was in Black all browden , He girned like a Ghost . Her glittering Hair was so gowden , Her Love fast from him Laist , That for his Sake she was unyawden , While he a Mile was chaste , And more that Day . When they had beir'd like baited Bulls , The Bonfires burned like Bails , And then they grew as meek as Mules That wearied are with Mails ; For those forfoughten tired Fools , Fell down like slaughter'd Frails , Fresh Men came in and hail'd the Dools , And dang them down in Dails , Bedeen that Day . The Wives then gave a hideous yell , When all these Yonkiers yoked , As fierce as Flags of Fire flaughts fell , Frieks to the Field they fl [ oh ] cked , The Carls with Clubs did others quell On Breast while Blood out boaked , So rudely rang the Common bell , That all the Steeple rocked For Dread that Day . By this Tom Tailor was in his Gear , When he herd the Common bell , He said , he should make all a Steer When he came there himself , He went to fight with such a Fear , While to the Ground he fell , A Wife that hat him on the Ear , With a great knocking-Mell , Fell'd him that Day . The Bridegroom brought a Pint of Ale , And bade the Piper Drink it , Drink it quoth he , and it so Stale , Ashrew me if I think it . The Bride her Maidens stood near by , And said , it was not Blinked , And Bartagesie the Bride so gay , Upon him fast she winked Full soon that Day . When all was done Dick with and Ax Came forth to fell a Father , Quoth he , where are you whoreson smaiks Right now that hurt my Brother ? His Wife bade him go hame Gib Glaiks , And so did Meg his Mother ; He turn'd and gave them both their Parks For he durst ding not other , But them that Day . The END of the First CANTO . Canto II by Allan Ramsey . Consider it werly , Read oftener than anys , Wiel at and Blink sle Poetry not Taken is . G. DOUGLAS . BUT there had been more Blood and Skaith Sair Harship and great Spulzie , And money a ane had got his Death By this unfonsie Tooly : But that the bald Goodwife of Braith Arm'd with a great Kale Gully , Came Belsy slaught and loot and Aith She'd gar them a be holy , Fou fast that Day . Blyth to win aff sae wl hale Bones , Tho' money had clowr'd Pows , And dragl'd sae 'mang Muck and Stanes They look'd like wirry Kows : Quoth some who 'malst had tint their Aynds , Let's see how a Bowls rows , And quat this Brouillement at anes , You Gul [ l ] y is nae Mows . Forsooth this Day . Quoth Hutchon , I am well content , I think we may do war , 'Till this Time Toumond I'se indent Our Claiths of Dirt will sa'r : With Nevels I'm a mayest fawn faint , My Chafts are dung a char : Then took his Bonnet , to the Bent And dadded aff the Glar , Fou clean that Day . Tam Taylor wha in Time of Battle Lay as gin some had fell'd him , Got up now with and unky Rattle , As nane there durst a quell'd him ; Bald Bess flew till him with a Brattle , And spite of's Teeth she held him Closs by the Craig , and with her fatal Knife Shoar'd She would Geld him , For Peace that Day . Sin e with ae Consent shook Hands , As they stood in a Ring ; Some red their Hair , some set their Bans , Some did their Sark Tails wring ; Then for a Hap upo' the Sands They did their Minstrel bring , Whare clever Houghs like Will [ s - ] wands At ilky blithesome Spring , Lap high that Day . Claud Peky was nam very blate , He stood na lang a beigh ; For be the Wame he gripped Kate , And guard her gee a Skreigh ; Had aft , quoth she , you filthy Slate , You stink o' Leeks , Oh figh , Let gae my Hands , I say , he quait , And wow gin she was Skreigh , And mim that Day . Now settl'd Goslies sat , and keen Did for fresh Bickere birle , While the young Swankies on the Green Took round a merry Tirle : Meg Wallet with her pinky Een Gart Lawrie's Heartstrings dirle , And Folk would threep that she did green For that would gar her Skirle , And Skreigh some Day . The manly Miller haff and haff Came out to shaw good Will , Flang by his Mittens and his Staff , Cry'd , Gee me Pattie's Mill : He lap Bawk high , and cry'd , had aff , They rus'd him that had Skill ; He would do't better quoth a Caf , Had he another Gill , Of Usquebae . Furth started niest a pensy Blade , And out a Maiden took , They said that he was Faulkland bred , And danced by the Book , A souple Taylor to his Trade , And when their Hands he shook , Gae them what he got from his Dad , Videlicet , the Youke , To Claw that Day . When a cry'd out he did sae well , He Meg and Bess did call up : The Lasses babb'd about the Reel , Gar'd a their Hurdles wallop , And sweated like Pownies when they speel , Up Braes , or when they gallop , But a thrawn Knublock took his Heel , And Wives had him to haul up , Haff fell'd that Day . But money a pawky Look and Tale Gae'd round when Glouming hous'd them The Osler Wife brought ben good Ale , And bade the Lasses rouse them ; Up with them Lads , and I'se be Bail They'l loo you and you touze them : Quoth Gaussie , this will never fail , With them that this gate woo's them On sic a Day . Sin Stoles and Furms were drawn aside , And up raise Willie Dadle , A short Hought Man , but fow o' Pride , He said the Fiddler Play'd ill . Let's hae the Pipes , quoth he , beside , Quoth a , that is nae said ill : He fitted the Floor , sin with the Bride , To Cuttyspoon and Treeladle , Thick , thick that Day . In the mean Time in came the Laird , And by some Right did claim To Kiss and Dance with Masie Aird , A dink and dorty Dame . But Oh poor Mause was aff her guard , For Back gate frae her Wame , Bekkin , she lot a fearson Raird , That gart her think great Shame , And blush that Day . Auld Steen led out Maggie Forsyth , He was her ain Good Brither ; And ilky ane was unky blithe To see ald Folk fae clever . Quo Jock , with laughing like to rive , What think you o' my Mither ? Were my Dad dead , let me ne'er thrive But she would get another , Goodman this Day . Tam Lutter had a muckle Dish , And betwixt ilky Tune He laid his Lug's , in't like a Fish , And sucked till it was done : His Bags were Liquor'd to his Wish , His Face was like a Moon : But he cou'd get nae Place to Pish in , but his ain twa Shoes , For thrang that Day . The Leter-gae of Hally Rhime Sat up at the Board-head , And a he said was thought a Crime to contradict indeed . For in Glark Lear he was right prime , And cou'd baith Write and Read , He drank sae firm till ne'er a styme He cou'd keek on a Bead , Or Book that Day . When he was Strute twa sturdy Chield Be his Oxter and be's Collar , Held up frae couping o' the Creels The liquid Logic Scholar . When he came hame his Wife did Reel And Rampadge in her Choler , With that he brake her Spinning wheel , That cost a good Rix Dollar , And more some say . Near Bedtime now ilk weary Wight Were gaunting for their Rest , For some were like to tyne their Sighed With Sleep and Drinking strest . But others that were Stomach Tied Cry'd out , It was nae best To leave a Supper that was Dight , To Brownies , or a Ghost To Eat that Day . On whomelt Tubs lay twa lang Dails , On them stood money a Goan , Some fill'd with Brachen , some with Kail , And Milk heat frae the Loan , Of Daintiths they had Routh and Wale , Of which they were right fon ; But naithing was gae down but Ale With drunken Donald DONE The Smith , that Day . Twice aught Bannocks in a Heap , And twa g [ oh ] od Junts of Beef , With Hind and Fore-spawl of a Sheep , Drew whittles frae ilk Sheath : With Gravy & their Beads did dreep , They Kempit with their Teeth , A Kebuck sin that 'maist cou'd creep It's lane , pat on the Sheaf In Stows that Day . The Bride was now laid in her Bed , Her left Leg Ho was flung ; And Geordie Gib was fidgen glad , Because it hit Jean Gun : She was his Jo , and aft had said , Fie , Geordie , had your Tongue , Ye's ne'er get me to be your Bride , But chang'd her Mind when bung , That very Day . Tehee ! quo' Touzie , when she saw The Cathel coming ben , It pypin heat gae'd round them a , The Bride she made a fen , To fit in Wyliecoat sae braw , Upon her neither End , Her Lad like only Cock did Craw , That meets a Clockin Hen , And blithe were they . The Souter , Miller , Smith , and Dick , Lawrie and Hutchon bald , Carls that keep nae very strict Be Hours , tho' they were old ; Nor cou'd they e're leave aff that Trick , But whare good Ale was sald , They drank a Night , e'ne tho' old Neck Shou'd tempt their Wives to scald Them for't next Day . Was ne'er in Scotland herd or seen Sic Banqueting and Drinking , Sic Reveling and Battles keen , Sic Dancing , and sic Jinkin : And unko Wark that fell at E'ne , When Lasses were haff Winkin , They lost their Feet , and hath their Een , And Maidenheads gae'd Linkin Aff , a that Day . FINIS . upo' the Sands They did their Minstrel bring , Whare clever Houghs like Will [ s - ] wands At ilky blithesome Spring , Lap high that Day . Claud Peky was nam very blate , He stood na lang a beigh ; For be the Wame he gripped Kate , And guard her gee a Skreigh ; Had aft , quoth she , you filthy Slate , You stink o' Leeks , Oh figh , Let gae my Hands , I say , he quait , And wow gin she was Skreigh , And mim that Day . Now settl'd Goslies sat , and keen Did for fresh Bickere birle , While the young Swankies on the Green Took round a merry Tirle : Meg Wallet with her pinky Een Gart Lawrie's Heartstrings dirle , And Folk would threep that she did green For that would gar her Skirle , And Skreigh some Day . The manly Miller haff and haff Came out to shaw good Will , Flang by his Mittens and his Staff , Cry'd , Gee me Pattie's Mill : He lap Bawk high , and cry'd , had aff , They rus'd him that had Skill ; He would do't better quoth a Caf , Had he another Gill , Of Usquebae . Furth started niest a pensy Blade , And out a Maiden took , They said that he was Faulkland bred , And danced by the Book , A souple Taylor to his Trade , And when their Hands he shook , Gae them what he got from his Dad , Videlicet , the Youke , To Claw that Day . When a cry'd out he did sae well , He Meg and Bess did call up : The Lasses babb'd about the Reel , Gar'd a their Hurdles wallop , And sweated like Pownies when they speel , Up Braes , or when they gallop , But a thrawn Knublock took his Heel , And Wives had him to haul up , Haff fell'd that Day . But money a pawky Look and Tale Gae'd round when Glouming hous'd them The Osler Wife brought ben good Ale , And bade the Lasses rouse them ; Up with them Lads , and I'se be Bail They'l loo you and you touze them : Quoth Gaussie , this will never fail , With them that this gate woo's them On sic a Day . Sin Stoles and Furms were drawn aside , And up raise Willie Dadle , A short Hought Man , but fow o' Pride , He said the Fiddler Play'd ill . Let's hae the Pipes , quoth he , beside , Quoth a , that is nae said ill : He fitted the Floor , sin with the Bride , To Cuttyspoon and Treeladle , Thick , thick that Day . In the mean Time in came the Laird , And by some Right did claim To Kiss and Dance with Masie Aird , A dink and dorty Dame . But Oh poor Mause was aff her guard , For Back gate frae her Wame , Bekkin , she lot a fearson Raird , That gart her think great Shame , And blush that Day . Auld Steen led out Maggie Forsyth , He was her ain Good Brither ; And ilky ane was unky blithe To see ald Folk fae clever . Quo Jock , with laughing like to rive , What think you o' my Mither ? Were my Dad dead , let me ne'er thrive But she would get another , Goodman this Day . Tam Lutter had a muckle Dish , And betwixt ilky Tune He laid his Lug's , in't like a Fish , And sucked till it was done : His Bags were Liquor'd to his Wish , His Face was like a Moon : But he cou'd get nae Place to Pish in , but his ain twa Shoes , For thrang that Day . The Leter-gae of Hally Rhime Sat up at the Board-head , And a he said was thought a Crime to contradict indeed . For in Glark Lear he was right prime , And cou'd baith Write and Read , He drank sae firm till ne'er a styme He cou'd keek on a Bead , Or Book that Day . When he was Strute twa sturdy Chield Be his Oxter and be's Collar , Held up frae couping o' the Creels The liquid Logic Scholar . When he came hame his Wife did Reel And Rampadge in her Choler , With that he brake her Spinning wheel , That cost a good Rix Dollar , And more some say . Near Bedtime now ilk weary Wight Were gaunting for their Rest , For some were like to tyne their Sighed With Sleep and Drinking strest . But others that were Stomach Tied Cry'd out , It was nae best To leave a Supper that was Dight , To Brownies , or a Ghost To Eat that Day . On whomelt Tubs lay twa lang Dails , On them stood money a Goan , Some fill'd with Brachen , some with Kail , And Milk heat frae the Loan , Of Daintiths they had Routh and Wale , Of which they were right fon ; But naithing was gae down but Ale With drunken Donald DONE The Smith , that Day . Twice aught Bannocks in a Heap , And twa g [ oh ] od Junts of Beef , With Hind and Fore-spawl of a Sheep , Drew whittles frae ilk Sheath : With Gravy & their Beads did dreep , They Kempit with their Teeth , A Kebuck sin that 'maist cou'd creep It's lane , pat on the Sheaf In Stows that Day . The Bride was now laid in her Bed , Her left Leg Ho was flung ; And Geordie Gib was fidgen glad , Because it hit Jean Gun : She was his Jo , and aft had said , Fie , Geordie , had your Tongue , Ye's ne'er get me to be your Bride , But chang'd her Mind when bung , That very Day . Tehee ! quo' Touzie , when she saw The Cathel coming ben , It pypin heat gae'd round them a , The Bride she made a fen , To fit in Wyliecoat sae braw , Upon her neither End , Her Lad like only Cock did Craw , That meets a Clockin Hen , And blithe were they . The Souter , Miller , Smith , and Dick , Lawrie and Hutchon bald , Carls that keep nae very strict Be Hours , tho' they were old ; Nor cou'd they e're leave aff that Trick , But whare good Ale was sald , They drank a Night , e'ne tho' old Neck Shou'd tempt their Wives to scald Them for't next Day . Was ne'er in Scotland herd or seen Sic Banqueting and Drinking , Sic Reveling and Battles keen , Sic Dancing , and sic Jinkin : And unko Wark that fell at E'ne , When Lasses were haff Winkin , They lost their Feet , and hath their Een , And Maidenheads gae'd Linkin Aff , a that Day . FINIS . 