Captain HIND's Progress and Ramble . Tune of Robin Hood Revived . THere's many a comical story you know , with a heigh down , down and a down , Of valiant and brave Captain Hind : A song of them all sing here now I shall , 'Tis jocular , pleasant , and fine , How this valiant Captain his calling began , with a heigh down , etc In brief you shall here understand ; There's few of his trade such frolicks have play'd Among the outlaws of the land . He travell'd to London , and met with a gang with a heigh down , etc Who learn'd him the absolute art Of taking a purse for better for worse ; And bravely he manag'd his par At length they were routed according to law , with a heigh down , etc And hanged was each pelfering elf ; Except Jemmy Hind , who strait did design To set up trade for himself . Like to a poor shepherd he harness'd himself , with a heigh down , etc Having both a bottle and crook , And standing at length on a hill , A booty he merrily took . He seiz'd on a gallant's brave prancing horse , with a heigh down , etc Brave pistols and silver enough : Which made him to laugh , he gave him a staff , And bid him to beatrice on the hoof Two thieves that had herd of the booty he god , with a heigh down , etc They came for to rob him next day ; But brave valiant Hind he sav'd his own coin , And took the thieves money away . As Hind was a riding along the highway , with a heigh down , etc And old hag he happen'd to meet ; She gave him a charm to keep him from harm . He threw her a crown for a treat . A gentleman riding from London to York , with a heigh down , etc With gold , aye , and silver so brigh Hind soon god the fleece , then threw him a piece To buy him a supper at night . Hind happen'd to come to the very same inn , with a heigh down , etc Whereat the York gentleman lay , Who telling his loss , and seeing Hind's horse , It was not convenient to stay . Three gentlemen drinking a bottle of wine , with a hey doshn , etc The servants went jogging before , With two bags of gold , and silver untold , Hind herd of that plentiful store . He made the portmanteaus immediately bleed , with a heigh down , etc The money he cunningly snaps ; Then hasten'd away , no time to delay , He never stood thrumming of caps . Hind met with a parson as he was pursu'd , with a heigh down , etc To whom he did merrily say , There's thieves behind a coming you'll find , To take all your money away : Sir , here is a pistol , pray shoot at the first , with a heigh down , etc Which pistol the parson receives , As knowing behold one saying of old , One honest man scares twenty thieves : The parson being pot-valiant it seems , with a heigh down , etc He shot , tho' it happen'd in vain , Without more adieu the pistol he threw , At which he was presently ta'en : Thus Hind god away , but the parson was brought with a heigh down , etc Unto and old Justice 'tis said ; Where soon he was clear'd , for why it appear'd That he was no thief by his trade . Not far from a river , Hind met with a spark , with a heigh down , etc Whose pockets with gold were well lin'd , Quoth he , as I live twenty pounds I would give , If I could but see Captain Hind ; He strait was for changing horses with Hind , with a heigh down , etc And thirty pounds gave him to boot ; Then did he endeavour to leap a wide river , But had not the power to do' Quoth Hind you shall see me leap it with ease , with a heigh down , etc And as he the river did cross , Quoth he there is twenty for seeing brave Hind , And ten pounds for riding his horse . Hind met with a parson who had been robb'd , with a heigh down , etc The story he merrily told , But tho' the thieves found in silver five pounds My collar concealed my gold : What trade do you think I am said Hind ? with a heigh down , etc I know not , said the Divine : A Cutter , quoth he , and so you shall see , I want such a collar as thine . Hind came to a town where the Bailiffs had god , with a heigh down , etc And innkeeper fast in the net ; And old Usurer , a crabbed old cur , Would send him to prison for debt . Hind laid down the money , and took up the bound , with a heigh down , etc Then finding the man was but poor , He soon paid himself , for he robb'd the old elf , Of that , likewise twenty pounds more . Hind came to a gentleman under a hedge , with a heigh down , etc So when he had taken his chink , He boldly rid on to William his man , And gave him ten shillings to drink . Hind god him a man , whose name was Jack , with a heigh down , etc And active and delicate lad ; Without any fear , he'd ride far and near , Where any thing was to be had . They waited for one that had lodg'd at their inn with a heigh down , etc And when he came up to their view Hind can'd him and cry'd , how slowly you ride How long must I tarry for you ? And aged committeeman riding to town , with a heigh down , etc Now that he might go through stich , Tho' he had gold bags , his coat was all rags , That thieves might not think he was rich . Now wither away , said brave Captain Hind ? with a heigh down , etc The other said , Master , in brief , I am a poor heart , and fur my own part , Am going to seek some relief . Hind threw him a delicate piece of broad gold , with a heigh down , etc And bid him go drink his health ; Aye , master , quoth he , I'll do it right free , And wish you both honour and wealth . But when the committeeman came to the inn , with a heigh down , etc He rail'd against Captain Hind , The which being told , he plunder'd his gold . His budget was so well lin'd . Of all the great Robbers that ever was known , with a heigh down , etc He was the most frolicsome blade , His merriment still did gain him goodwill , Though long he had follow'd his trade . At length being taken for treason God-wot , with a heigh down , etc Against the long parliament state , Our Captain was try'd , condemn'd , and dy'd , And thus he submitted to fate . And many more frolicks the Captain has play'd , with a heigh down , etc Now if you will read them at large , The book you may buy , good people for why , It is but just one penny charge . Captain HIND's Progress and Ramble . Tune of Robin Hood Revived . THere's many a comical story you know , with a heigh down , down and a down , Of valiant and brave Captain Hind : A song of them all sing here now I shall , 'Tis jocular , pleasant , and fine , How this valiant Captain his calling began , with a heigh down , etc In brief you shall here understand ; There's few of his trade such frolicks have play'd Among the outlaws of the land . He travell'd to London , and met with a gang with a heigh down , etc Who learn'd him the absolute art Of taking a purse for better for worse ; And bravely he manag'd his par At length they were routed according to law , with a heigh down , etc And hanged was each pelfering elf ; Except Jemmy Hind , who strait did design To set up trade for himself . Like to a poor shepherd he harness'd himself , with a heigh down , etc Having both a bottle and crook , And standing at length on a hill , A booty he merrily took . He seiz'd on a gallant's brave prancing horse , with a heigh down , etc Brave pistols and silver enough : Which made him to laugh , he gave him a staff , And bid him to beatrice on the hoof Two thieves that had herd of the booty he god , with a heigh down , etc They came for to rob him next day ; But brave valiant Hind he sav'd his own coin , And took the thieves money away . As Hind was a riding along the highway , with a heigh down , etc And old hag he happen'd to meet ; She gave him a charm to keep him from harm . He threw her a crown for a treat . A gentleman riding from London to York , with a heigh down , etc With gold , aye , and silver so brigh Hind soon god the fleece , then threw him a piece To buy him a supper at night . Hind happen'd to come to the very same inn , with a heigh down , etc Whereat the York gentleman lay , Who telling his loss , and seeing Hind's horse , It was not convenient to stay . Three gentlemen drinking a bottle of wine , with a hey doshn , etc The servants went jogging before , With two bags of gold , and silver untold , Hind herd of that plentiful store . He made the portmanteaus immediately bleed , with a heigh down , etc The money he cunningly snaps ; Then hasten'd away , no time to delay , He never stood thrumming of caps . Hind met with a parson as he was pursu'd , with a heigh down , etc To whom he did merrily say , There's thieves behind a coming you'll find , To take all your money away : Sir , here is a pistol , pray shoot at the first , with a heigh down , etc Which pistol the parson receives , As knowing behold one saying of old , One honest man scares twenty thieves : The parson being pot-valiant it seems , with a heigh down , etc He shot , tho' it happen'd in vain , Without more adieu the pistol he threw , At which he was presently ta'en : Thus Hind god away , but the parson was brought with a heigh down , etc Unto and old Justice 'tis said ; Where soon he was clear'd , for why it appear'd That he was no thief by his trade . Not far from a river , Hind met with a spark , with a heigh down , etc Whose pockets with gold were well lin'd , Quoth he , as I live twenty pounds I would give , If I could but see Captain Hind ; He strait was for changing horses with Hind , with a heigh down , etc And thirty pounds gave him to boot ; Then did he endeavour to leap a wide river , But had not the power to do' Quoth Hind you shall see me leap it with ease , with a heigh down , etc And as he the river did cross , Quoth he there is twenty for seeing brave Hind , And ten pounds for riding his horse . Hind met with a parson who had been robb'd , with a heigh down , etc The story he merrily told , But tho' the thieves found in silver five pounds My collar concealed my gold : What trade do you think I am said Hind ? with a heigh down , etc I know not , said the Divine : A Cutter , quoth he , and so you shall see , I want such a collar as thine . Hind came to a town where the Bailiffs had god , with a heigh down , etc And innkeeper fast in the net ; And old Usurer , a crabbed old cur , Would send him to prison for debt . Hind laid down the money , and took up the bound , with a heigh down , etc Then finding the man was but poor , He soon paid himself , for he robb'd the old elf , Of that , likewise twenty pounds more . Hind came to a gentleman under a hedge , with a heigh down , etc So when he had taken his chink , He boldly rid on to William his man , And gave him ten shillings to drink . Hind god him a man , whose name was Jack , with a heigh down , etc And active and delicate lad ; Without any fear , he'd ride far and near , Where any thing was to be had . They waited for one that had lodg'd at their inn with a heigh down , etc And when he came up to their view Hind can'd him and cry'd , how slowly you ride How long must I tarry for you ? And aged committeeman riding to town , with a heigh down , etc Now that he might go through stich , Tho' he had gold bags , his coat was all rags , That thieves might not think he was rich . Now wither away , said brave Captain Hind ? with a heigh down , etc The other said , Master , in brief , I am a poor heart , and fur my own part , Am going to seek some relief . Hind threw him a delicate piece of broad gold , with a heigh down , etc And bid him go drink his health ; Aye , master , quoth he , I'll do it right free , And wish you both honour and wealth . But when the committeeman came to the inn , with a heigh down , etc He rail'd against Captain Hind , The which being told , he plunder'd his gold . His budget was so well lin'd . Of all the great Robbers that ever was known , with a heigh down , etc He was the most frolicsome blade , His merriment still did gain him goodwill , Though long he had follow'd his trade . At length being taken for treason God-wot , with a heigh down , etc Against the long parliament state , Our Captain was try'd , condemn'd , and dy'd , And thus he submitted to fate . And many more frolicks the Captain has play'd , with a heigh down , etc Now if you will read them at large , The book you may buy , good people for why , It is but just one penny charge . 