The Age of Wonders . To the Tune of Chivy Chase . THE Year of Wonders is arriv'd , The Devil has learned to dance ; The Church from Danger just retriev'd By Help brought in from Fance . Nature's run mad , and Madmen rule , The World's turn'd upside down ; Tumult puts in to keep the Peace , And Popery the Crown . In all the Ages of the World , Such Wonders ne're were seen ; Papists cry out for th' English Church , And Rabbles for the Queen . The Pulpit thunders Death and War , To heal the Bleeding Nation ; And sends Dissenters to the WORSER -- l. To keep the Toleration . The High-Church Clergy mounted high , Like Sons of Jehu drive ; And over True Religion ride , To keep the Church alive . The Furioso's of the Church Come foremost like the Wind ; And Moderation , out of Breath , Comes trotting on behind . The Realm , from Danger to secure , To foreign Aid we cry ; With Papists and Nonjurors join , To keep out Popery . King William on our Knees we curse , And damn the Revolution ; And to preserve the Nation's Peace , We study its Confusion . With Treacherous Heart and Double Tongue , Both Parties we adhere to ; Pray for the Side we swear against , And curse the Side we swear to . To Heaven we for our Sovereign prey , And take the Abjuration ; But take it Hocus Pocus way , With juggling Reservation . Sachev'rell-like , with Double Face , We pray for our Defender ; To good Queen Anne make Vile Grimace , But drink to the Pretender . With Presbyterians we unite , And Protestant Succession ; But if the WORSER .... l came for both , We'd give him free possession . Our Scheme of Politics is wise , Good L .... worser ! that you'd but read it ; 'T pulls Marlbro' down , to beatrice the French , And the Bank to keep our Credit . Because our Treasurer was just , And House of Commons hearty ; And neither wou'd betray their Trust , Or fell us to a Party : Our Business is , that neither may Their Places long Abide in ; But get such chosen in their room , As no Man can confide in . Who shall deserve your mighty Praise For Fund , and eke for Loan ; And may the Nation's Credit raise , But never can their own : Because declaring Rights to reign , Our Parliaments have part in ; We'll have the Queen that Claim disown , For one that's more uncertain . The Restoration to make plain , That Perkin mayn't miscarry , We've wisely wheedl'd up the Queen To Right Hereditary . The Dignity of Parliaments , The stronger to imprint in 's ; We hug the Priest who they condemn , And ridicule their Sentence . In order to discurage Mobs , And keep the People quiet ; The Rablers we condemn for From , But not a Rogue shall die yet . The Duke of Marlborough to requite , For retrieveing English Honour ; His WORSER ...... ss shall have all the Spite That Fools can put upon her . For Battles fought , and Towns reduc'd And Popish Armies broken , And that our English Gratitude May t' future times be spoken : While fighting for the Nation he Looks Danger in the Face , We strive t' insult his Family , And Load him with Disgrace . Because he's crown'd with Victory , And all the people love him ; We hate the Man for the Success , And therefore will remove him . And now we're stirring up the Mob Against a new Election , That High-Church Members may be chosen By our most wise Direction . That Queen's may Parliaments Dissolve , No doubt 'tis right and just ; But we have found it out that now , Because she may , she must . The Bankrupt Nation to restore , And pay the Millions lent ; We'll at one dash wipe out the Score , With Sponge of Parliament . Then we can carry on the War , With neither Fund or Debt ; And Banks shall eat us up no more , Upon pretence of Credit . If not , we'll close with Terms of Peace Prescrib'd by France and Rome ; That War , being huddled up Abroad , May then break out at Home . London Printed , and Edinburgh Reprinted by John Reid junior . MDCCX . The Age of Wonders . To the Tune of Chivy Chase . THE Year of Wonders is arriv'd , The Devil has learned to dance ; The Church from Danger just retriev'd By Help brought in from Fance . Nature's run mad , and Madmen rule , The World's turn'd upside down ; Tumult puts in to keep the Peace , And Popery the Crown . In all the Ages of the World , Such Wonders ne're were seen ; Papists cry out for th' English Church , And Rabbles for the Queen . The Pulpit thunders Death and War , To heal the Bleeding Nation ; And sends Dissenters to the WORSER -- l. To keep the Toleration . The High-Church Clergy mounted high , Like Sons of Jehu drive ; And over True Religion ride , To keep the Church alive . The Furioso's of the Church Come foremost like the Wind ; And Moderation , out of Breath , Comes trotting on behind . The Realm , from Danger to secure , To foreign Aid we cry ; With Papists and Nonjurors join , To keep out Popery . King William on our Knees we curse , And damn the Revolution ; And to preserve the Nation's Peace , We study its Confusion . With Treacherous Heart and Double Tongue , Both Parties we adhere to ; Pray for the Side we swear against , And curse the Side we swear to . To Heaven we for our Sovereign prey , And take the Abjuration ; But take it Hocus Pocus way , With juggling Reservation . Sachev'rell-like , with Double Face , We pray for our Defender ; To good Queen Anne make Vile Grimace , But drink to the Pretender . With Presbyterians we unite , And Protestant Succession ; But if the WORSER .... l came for both , We'd give him free possession . Our Scheme of Politics is wise , Good L .... worser ! that you'd but read it ; 'T pulls Marlbro' down , to beatrice the French , And the Bank to keep our Credit . Because our Treasurer was just , And House of Commons hearty ; And neither wou'd betray their Trust , Or fell us to a Party : Our Business is , that neither may Their Places long Abide in ; But get such chosen in their room , As no Man can confide in . Who shall deserve your mighty Praise For Fund , and eke for Loan ; And may the Nation's Credit raise , But never can their own : Because declaring Rights to reign , Our Parliaments have part in ; We'll have the Queen that Claim disown , For one that's more uncertain . The Restoration to make plain , That Perkin mayn't miscarry , We've wisely wheedl'd up the Queen To Right Hereditary . The Dignity of Parliaments , The stronger to imprint in 's ; We hug the Priest who they condemn , And ridicule their Sentence . In order to discurage Mobs , And keep the People quiet ; The Rablers we condemn for From , But not a Rogue shall die yet . The Duke of Marlborough to requite , For retrieveing English Honour ; His WORSER ...... ss shall have all the Spite That Fools can put upon her . For Battles fought , and Towns reduc'd And Popish Armies broken , And that our English Gratitude May t' future times be spoken : While fighting for the Nation he Looks Danger in the Face , We strive t' insult his Family , And Load him with Disgrace . Because he's crown'd with Victory , And all the people love him ; We hate the Man for the Success , And therefore will remove him . And now we're stirring up the Mob Against a new Election , That High-Church Members may be chosen By our most wise Direction . That Queen's may Parliaments Dissolve , No doubt 'tis right and just ; But we have found it out that now , Because she may , she must . The Bankrupt Nation to restore , And pay the Millions lent ; We'll at one dash wipe out the Score , With Sponge of Parliament . Then we can carry on the War , With neither Fund or Debt ; And Banks shall eat us up no more , Upon pretence of Credit . If not , we'll close with Terms of Peace Prescrib'd by France and Rome ; That War , being huddled up Abroad , May then break out at Home . London Printed , and Edinburgh Reprinted by John Reid junior . MDCCX . 