Britains sorrowful Lamentation , For the Loss of their Gracious QUEEN MARY Who departed this Life , the 28th . of December , 1694. To the Tune of , The Bleeding Heart . WHat dismal News is this I hear , Each Brittain shedding of a Tear , I do not mean a Tear alone , But heavy Sighs and dismal Groans . Each one struck dumb , amazing stands , With aiking Hearts and wringing Hands , Oh! wretched Day that e're was seen , The loss of our most Gracious Queen . A Queen whose Worth could not be nam'd , A Queen for Virtue still proclaim'd ; And all her Subject's needs must own , So brave a Queen was never known . Oh! Britain , Britain , mourn with speed , For sure there never was more need , Than at this day for our hard Fate . Our King has lost his Royal Mate . No Tongue can tell the Grief and Woe , Each Subject now does undergo ; Since Your Most Royal Queen is dead , 'Twould make a Heart of Stone to bleed , Where this same dreadful News does come , It struck amazement in each one , And all with mournful Voice did say , Oh! wretched and unhappy day . What must I do ? where must we go ? Our Queen that lov'd her Country so , By cruel Death is snatch'd away ; Oh! why did not Death longer stay ? This is a Land of Grief and Woe , Which does with Sorrow overflow ; So great a Loss was never seen , To lose so virtuous a Queen . A Queen belov'd of all that knew , How to their Country to be true ; A Queen that of Mercy had great store , Oh! such a Queen was ne'er before . But Oh! She's gone , and left us here , Full of Distraction and Despair ; No Comfort now is to be seen , Since we have lost our Gracious Queen . This is a day of Mourning now , This is a day of Sorrow too ; This is a day of Woe and Grief , This day we mourn without relief . For sighing , this I needs must say , The Good are soonest took away , Although She's here no longer seen , In Heav'n She Reigns a Glorious Queen . FINIS . Printed at London , And Reprinted at Edinburgh by John Reid , 1695. Britains sorrowful Lamentation , For the Loss of their Gracious QUEEN MARY Who departed this Life , the 28th . of December , 1694. To the Tune of , The Bleeding Heart . WHat dismal News is this I hear , Each Brittain shedding of a Tear , I do not mean a Tear alone , But heavy Sighs and dismal Groans . Each one struck dumb , amazing stands , With aiking Hearts and wringing Hands , Oh! wretched Day that e're was seen , The loss of our most Gracious Queen . A Queen whose Worth could not be nam'd , A Queen for Virtue still proclaim'd ; And all her Subject's needs must own , So brave a Queen was never known . Oh! Britain , Britain , mourn with speed , For sure there never was more need , Than at this day for our hard Fate . Our King has lost his Royal Mate . No Tongue can tell the Grief and Woe , Each Subject now does undergo ; Since Your Most Royal Queen is dead , 'Twould make a Heart of Stone to bleed , Where this same dreadful News does come , It struck amazement in each one , And all with mournful Voice did say , Oh! wretched and unhappy day . What must I do ? where must we go ? Our Queen that lov'd her Country so , By cruel Death is snatch'd away ; Oh! why did not Death longer stay ? This is a Land of Grief and Woe , Which does with Sorrow overflow ; So great a Loss was never seen , To lose so virtuous a Queen . A Queen belov'd of all that knew , How to their Country to be true ; A Queen that of Mercy had great store , Oh! such a Queen was ne'er before . But Oh! She's gone , and left us here , Full of Distraction and Despair ; No Comfort now is to be seen , Since we have lost our Gracious Queen . This is a day of Mourning now , This is a day of Sorrow too ; This is a day of Woe and Grief , This day we mourn without relief . For sighing , this I needs must say , The Good are soonest took away , Although She's here no longer seen , In Heav'n She Reigns a Glorious Queen . FINIS . Printed at London , And Reprinted at Edinburgh by John Reid , 1695. 