A SONG To the TUNE of the Abbot of Canterbury , etc I . WHAT Child has not herd of a conquering Tour , Carried on in a Trench by full Thousands fourscore ? And how the Grand Monarch is flown Home again , In Triumph to reap the Reward of his Pain ? Derry down . II But he found when arriv'd on the Frontiers of France , Instead of a Triumph , a cold Complaisance : For who could enjoy such and idle Parade , When Cape-Breton was lost , and and Emperor made ! Derry down . III . This observ'd he complains to his trusty Bellisle , 'Must we ever be plagu'd with yond insolent Isle ? 'To Monarchy's Height , 'tis in vain to aspire , 'While so little a Spark can create such a Fire ? ' Derry down . IV. 'Great Sir , says the Marshal , play off the Pretender : ''Tis not in your Arms to make Britain Surrender : 'Their Freedom so Spirits those obstinate Elves , 'They ne'er can be conquer'd unless by themselves . ' Derry down . V. Thus alarm'd he enjoins his Mock-Sovereign at Room To send o'er his Son if himself durst not come : 'For sure 'tis enough a found Youth to convince , 'That if You be a King , he of Course is a Prince . ' Derry down . VI . 'By the POPE let the Stripling in private be blessed Oh! 'And equipp'd with a Time-serving smooth Manifesto : 'In Terms howe'er Solemn and strong it is made , 'Your Faith will instruct you such Ties to evade . ' Derry down . VII . 'And with him such Nobles , as farther Endearmne : 'Who , for not being hang'd merit other Prefermet 'Then if they can once get the Cry on their Side , 'Our Armada's shall follow , and help to divide . ' Derry down . VIII . Thus France with her Vassals afresh has begun , To annoy what she envies most under the Sun : And a Kingdom so fair , so diffusive a Trade , Are motives enough to make Villians invade . Derry down . IX . But these Motives to them such base Efforts to try , Shou'd make Us , something better than mere Standers-by : Tho' in Politic Wranglings at times we delight ; Yet against such Oppressors' we'll ever unite . Derry down . X. Our Religion , our Government , Freedom , and All , Together , must stand , and together must fallen : Still happy , if , in their Defence we succeed , And in that Defence , 'tis most glorious to Bleed . Derry down . XI . For if Papal Tyranny once mount the Throne , Like a Dream are the Days of our Happiness gone : With Slavery curs'd , shall be each future Birth , And Britain no longer the Joy of the Earth . Derry down . A SONG To the TUNE of the Abbot of Canterbury , etc I . WHAT Child has not herd of a conquering Tour , Carried on in a Trench by full Thousands fourscore ? And how the Grand Monarch is flown Home again , In Triumph to reap the Reward of his Pain ? Derry down . II But he found when arriv'd on the Frontiers of France , Instead of a Triumph , a cold Complaisance : For who could enjoy such and idle Parade , When Cape-Breton was lost , and and Emperor made ! Derry down . III . This observ'd he complains to his trusty Bellisle , 'Must we ever be plagu'd with yond insolent Isle ? 'To Monarchy's Height , 'tis in vain to aspire , 'While so little a Spark can create such a Fire ? ' Derry down . IV. 'Great Sir , says the Marshal , play off the Pretender : ''Tis not in your Arms to make Britain Surrender : 'Their Freedom so Spirits those obstinate Elves , 'They ne'er can be conquer'd unless by themselves . ' Derry down . V. Thus alarm'd he enjoins his Mock-Sovereign at Room To send o'er his Son if himself durst not come : 'For sure 'tis enough a found Youth to convince , 'That if You be a King , he of Course is a Prince . ' Derry down . VI . 'By the POPE let the Stripling in private be blessed Oh! 'And equipp'd with a Time-serving smooth Manifesto : 'In Terms howe'er Solemn and strong it is made , 'Your Faith will instruct you such Ties to evade . ' Derry down . VII . 'And with him such Nobles , as farther Endearmne : 'Who , for not being hang'd merit other Prefermet 'Then if they can once get the Cry on their Side , 'Our Armada's shall follow , and help to divide . ' Derry down . VIII . Thus France with her Vassals afresh has begun , To annoy what she envies most under the Sun : And a Kingdom so fair , so diffusive a Trade , Are motives enough to make Villians invade . Derry down . IX . But these Motives to them such base Efforts to try , Shou'd make Us , something better than mere Standers-by : Tho' in Politic Wranglings at times we delight ; Yet against such Oppressors' we'll ever unite . Derry down . X. Our Religion , our Government , Freedom , and All , Together , must stand , and together must fallen : Still happy , if , in their Defence we succeed , And in that Defence , 'tis most glorious to Bleed . Derry down . XI . For if Papal Tyranny once mount the Throne , Like a Dream are the Days of our Happiness gone : With Slavery curs'd , shall be each future Birth , And Britain no longer the Joy of the Earth . Derry down . 