The Miller's Advice to his three Sons , in taking of Toll . THERE was a miller who had three sons , And knowing his life was almost run , He call'd them all , and ask'd their will , If that to them he left his mill . He called first for his eldest son , Saying , My life is almost run , If I to you this mill do make , What toll do you intend to take ? Father , said he , my name is Jack , Out of a bushel I'll take a peck , From every bushel that I grind , That I may a good living find . Thou art a fool , the old man said , Thou hast not well learn'd thy trade , This mill to thee I ne'er will give , For by such toll no man can live . He call'd for his middlemost son , Saying , My life is almost run , If I to thee the mill do make , What toll do you intend to take ? Father , says he , my name is Ralph , Out of a bushel I'll take it half , From every bushel that I grind , So that I may a good living find . Thou art a fool , the old man said , Thou hast not learned well thy trade , This mill to you I ne'er can give , For by such toll no man live . He called for his youngest son , Saying , My life is almost run , If I to you this mill do make , What toll do you intend to take ? Father , said he , I am your only boy , For taking toll is all my joy : Before I will a good living lack , I'll take it all , and forswear the sack . Thou art my boy , the old man said , For thou hast well learn'd thy trade ; This mill to thee I'll give , he cry'd , And then he closs'd up his eyes and dy'd . Printed in Aldermary Church-Yard , London . The Miller's Advice to his three Sons , in taking of Toll . THERE was a miller who had three sons , And knowing his life was almost run , He call'd them all , and ask'd their will , If that to them he left his mill . He called first for his eldest son , Saying , My life is almost run , If I to you this mill do make , What toll do you intend to take ? Father , said he , my name is Jack , Out of a bushel I'll take a peck , From every bushel that I grind , That I may a good living find . Thou art a fool , the old man said , Thou hast not well learn'd thy trade , This mill to thee I ne'er will give , For by such toll no man can live . He call'd for his middlemost son , Saying , My life is almost run , If I to thee the mill do make , What toll do you intend to take ? Father , says he , my name is Ralph , Out of a bushel I'll take it half , From every bushel that I grind , So that I may a good living find . Thou art a fool , the old man said , Thou hast not learned well thy trade , This mill to you I ne'er can give , For by such toll no man live . He called for his youngest son , Saying , My life is almost run , If I to you this mill do make , What toll do you intend to take ? Father , said he , I am your only boy , For taking toll is all my joy : Before I will a good living lack , I'll take it all , and forswear the sack . Thou art my boy , the old man said , For thou hast well learn'd thy trade ; This mill to thee I'll give , he cry'd , And then he closs'd up his eyes and dy'd . Printed in Aldermary Church-Yard , London . 