THE LOFTY BISHOP , THE LAZY BROWNIST , AND THE LOYAL AUTHOR . 1. The Bishop Sings . WHat would ye lazy Brownists have , you rage and run away ; And cry us down , our Church , and eke , the form therein we pray . O Monstres great ! Abortive sons , your Mother to forsake ; To Church you do refrain to come , your prayers there to make . You will admit no government , in Church at all to stand , Without the which , would soon be seen , strange errors in the land . You do assume your selves to be more holy then all people , Therefore 'mongst all , you will not come , to pray in Church or steeple . You'l speak us fair and soberly , you will protest in speech , With eyes , and hands eke lifted up : yet will us overreach . You do presume , you have no sin ; and that you have the spirit , And though you cousin and deceive , you heaven shall inherit . O , fie upon your idle life ! how dare you zeal pretend , To loiter here , and there all day a prating life to spend . What separatist in your Rout makes conscience of all sins , And in his calling pains does take , so soon as day begins . 2. The Brownists Sings . YOur lofty Lordship terms us lazy and runagades too , But I could wish you Bishops would but labour as we do . Sure ye be monsters , for such members of Christ his Church as ye , I have not read of in Gods word allowed by him to be . Then you must rather be out of Christ , and in his Church impostors , For Christ allows you Lordship's none ; if you will be his Pastor's . You did presume , you were cocksure , and in your glory firm , Christs little flock to tyrannise with countenance full stern . The Apostles of our Saviour Christ , you please you do succeed ; And yet would starve those souls , which they did labour for to feed . Though with your mouth , you Room deny ; yet still her ways you take , A strumpet you confess she is , yet do her not forsake . How dare you , who appointed are to Preach Gods holy word ; Fit in pomp and presume to bear in hand the temporal sword . Is any Pastor made a Lord , but soone's from preaching taken ; Yea though he laboured much before , this makes all be forsaken . 3. The Author laments . HEre's lazy Brownists , lofty Bishops , and both accuse each other , As runagades , Monsters eke ; unto the Church their mother . And yet were both bred up by her , and yet Church Monsters too ; The one does quite forsake the Church , the other would her undo . But now the Parliament no doubt , these Monsters will destroy ; Or else will set them such a form , whereby the Church may joy . The one in pride , the other in conceited purity ; Does trouble both the Church and State , such Monsters for to see . While one dissembles , th' other does affirm vain things for truth , While one in pomp , his time does wast the other it spends in sloth . While both do wander from the way wherein the Church of God Directed is by him to walk , both other paths have trod . The Brownists noses , want a Ring ( to draw them with a Rope ; ) The Prelates wings do cutting need , ( lest they fly to the Pope . ) That so the one in Church may Preach Gods word , the other hear ; That both may honour God , and eke his laws may love , and fear . Printed Ann Dom. 1640. THE LOFTY BISHOP , THE LAZY BROWNIST , AND THE LOYAL AUTHOR . 1. The Bishop Sings . WHat would ye lazy Brownists have , you rage and run away ; And cry us down , our Church , and eke , the form therein we pray . O Monstres great ! Abortive sons , your Mother to forsake ; To Church you do refrain to come , your prayers there to make . You will admit no government , in Church at all to stand , Without the which , would soon be seen , strange errors in the land . You do assume your selves to be more holy then all people , Therefore 'mongst all , you will not come , to pray in Church or steeple . You'l speak us fair and soberly , you will protest in speech , With eyes , and hands eke lifted up : yet will us overreach . You do presume , you have no sin ; and that you have the spirit , And though you cousin and deceive , you heaven shall inherit . O , fie upon your idle life ! how dare you zeal pretend , To loiter here , and there all day a prating life to spend . What separatist in your Rout makes conscience of all sins , And in his calling pains does take , so soon as day begins . 2. The Brownists Sings . YOur lofty Lordship terms us lazy and runagades too , But I could wish you Bishops would but labour as we do . Sure ye be monsters , for such members of Christ his Church as ye , I have not read of in Gods word allowed by him to be . Then you must rather be out of Christ , and in his Church impostors , For Christ allows you Lordship's none ; if you will be his Pastor's . You did presume , you were cocksure , and in your glory firm , Christs little flock to tyrannise with countenance full stern . The Apostles of our Saviour Christ , you please you do succeed ; And yet would starve those souls , which they did labour for to feed . Though with your mouth , you Room deny ; yet still her ways you take , A strumpet you confess she is , yet do her not forsake . How dare you , who appointed are to Preach Gods holy word ; Fit in pomp and presume to bear in hand the temporal sword . Is any Pastor made a Lord , but soone's from preaching taken ; Yea though he laboured much before , this makes all be forsaken . 3. The Author laments . HEre's lazy Brownists , lofty Bishops , and both accuse each other , As runagades , Monsters eke ; unto the Church their mother . And yet were both bred up by her , and yet Church Monsters too ; The one does quite forsake the Church , the other would her undo . But now the Parliament no doubt , these Monsters will destroy ; Or else will set them such a form , whereby the Church may joy . The one in pride , the other in conceited purity ; Does trouble both the Church and State , such Monsters for to see . While one dissembles , th' other does affirm vain things for truth , While one in pomp , his time does wast the other it spends in sloth . While both do wander from the way wherein the Church of God Directed is by him to walk , both other paths have trod . The Brownists noses , want a Ring ( to draw them with a Rope ; ) The Prelates wings do cutting need , ( lest they fly to the Pope . ) That so the one in Church may Preach Gods word , the other hear ; That both may honour God , and eke his laws may love , and fear . Printed Ann Dom. 1640. 