A Pleasant and Renowned SONG of Sir GUY , Earl of Warwick : Showing , The valiant DEEDS atchiev'd by that Noble Knigh Also how he liv'd in a Cave as a Hermit , and of his Sickness and Death . Tune of , Was ever Man , etc WAS ever Knight for Lady's Sake So crossed in Love , as I Sir Guy ? For Phillis fair , that Lady bright , As ever Man beheld with Eye : She gave me Leave myself to try The valiant Knight with Shield and Spear , E'er that her Love she would grant me , Which made me venture far and near . The proud Sir Guy , a Baron bold , In Deeds of Arms the doughty Knight , That every Day in England was , With Sword and Spear in Field to figh And Englishman I was by Birth , In Faith of Christ , a Christian true ; The wicked Laws of Infidels I sought by Power to subdue . Two hundred twenty Years and odd , After our Saviour Christ his Birth , When King Athelstone wore the Crown , I lived here upon the Earth : Some Time I was of Warwick Earl , And as I said , on very Truth , A Lady's Love did me constrain To seek great Ventures in my Youth . To try my Fame by Force of Arms , In strange and sundry Heathen Lands , Where I achieved for her Sake , Right dangerous Conquests by my Hands . For first I sail'd to Normandy , And there I stoutly wone in Fight The Emperor's Daughter of Almain , From many a valiant worthy Knight . Then passed I the Seas of Greece , To help the Emperor to his Right , Against the mighty Sultans Host Of Persians to figh Where I did slay of Sarazens , And Heathen Pagans many a Man ; And slew the Sultans Cousin dear , Beside the haughty Colbron . Exkeldred , the famous Knight , To Death likewise I did pursue ; And Almain , King of Tyre also , Most terrible in Fight to view , I went into the Soldan's Host , Being thither on Embassage sen And brought away his Head with me , I having slave him in his Tent. There was a Dragon in the Land , Which I also myself did slay , As he a Lion did pursue , Most fiercely met me by the Way : From thence I pass'd the Seas of Greece , And came to Pavy Land aright , Where I the Duke of Pavy kill'd , His heinous Treason to requite . And after came into this Land , Towards fair Phillis Lady bright ; For Love of whom I travell'd far , To try my Manhood and my Migh But when I had espoused her , I stayed with her but forty Days ; But then I left this Lady bright , And then I went beyond the Seas . All clad in Gray , in Pilgrim sort , My Voyage from her I did take Unto that blessed Holy Land , For Jesus Christ my Saviour's Sake : Where I Earl Jonas did redeem , And all his Sons that were Fifteen , Who with the cruel Sarazen , In Prison for long Time had been . I slew the Giant Amarant , In Battle fiercely Hand to Hand ; And doughty Barknard killed I , The mighty Duke of that same Land : Then I to England came again , And here with Colbron fell I fought ; And ugly Giant , that the Danes Had for their Champion hither brought . I overcame him in the Field , And slew him dead right valiantly ; Where I the Land did then redeem From Danish Tribute utterly : And afterwards I offer'd up The Use of Weapons solemnly At Winchester , when as I fought In Sighed of many far and nigh . In Windsor Forest I did slay A Boar of passing Might and Strength , The like in England never was In Bigness both for Breath and Length : Some of his Bones in Warwick yet Within the Castle there do lie ; One of his Shield-bones to this Day Hangs in the City of Coventry . On Dunsmoreheath I also slew A monstrous , wild , and cruel Beast , Call'd , The Don Cow bf Dunsmoreheath , Which many People had oppress Some of her Bones in Warwick yet , Still for a Monument do lie , Which unto every Looker's View , As Wonders strange they may espy . And the Dragons in the Land , I also did in Sighed destroy , That did both Man and Beast oppress , And all the Country soar annoy : And then to Warwick came again Like Pilgrim poor , and was not known ; And there I liv'd a Hermit's Life , A Mile and more out of the Town . Where with my Hands I hew'd a House Out of a craggy Rock of Stone , And lived like a Palmer poor , Within that Cave myself alone : And daily came to beg my Food Of Phillis , at my Castle-gate ; Not known unto my loving Wife , Who daily mourned for her Mate . Till at the last I fell soar Sick , Yea , soar so Sick , that I must die ; I sent to her a Ring of Gold , By which she knew me presently : Then she repaired to the Cave , Before that I gave up the Ghost , Herself clos'd up my dying Eyes , My Phillis fair whom I lov'd most . Thus dreadful Death did me arrest , To bring my Corpse unto the Grave ; And like Palmer died I , Whereby I hope my Soul to save : My Body in Warwick yet does lie , Though it is now consum'd to Mould ; My Stature was engraven i [ n ] Stone , This present Day you may behold . A Pleasant and Renowned SONG of Sir GUY , Earl of Warwick : Showing , The valiant DEEDS atchiev'd by that Noble Knigh Also how he liv'd in a Cave as a Hermit , and of his Sickness and Death . Tune of , Was ever Man , etc WAS ever Knight for Lady's Sake So crossed in Love , as I Sir Guy ? For Phillis fair , that Lady bright , As ever Man beheld with Eye : She gave me Leave myself to try The valiant Knight with Shield and Spear , E'er that her Love she would grant me , Which made me venture far and near . The proud Sir Guy , a Baron bold , In Deeds of Arms the doughty Knight , That every Day in England was , With Sword and Spear in Field to figh And Englishman I was by Birth , In Faith of Christ , a Christian true ; The wicked Laws of Infidels I sought by Power to subdue . Two hundred twenty Years and odd , After our Saviour Christ his Birth , When King Athelstone wore the Crown , I lived here upon the Earth : Some Time I was of Warwick Earl , And as I said , on very Truth , A Lady's Love did me constrain To seek great Ventures in my Youth . To try my Fame by Force of Arms , In strange and sundry Heathen Lands , Where I achieved for her Sake , Right dangerous Conquests by my Hands . For first I sail'd to Normandy , And there I stoutly wone in Fight The Emperor's Daughter of Almain , From many a valiant worthy Knight . Then passed I the Seas of Greece , To help the Emperor to his Right , Against the mighty Sultans Host Of Persians to figh Where I did slay of Sarazens , And Heathen Pagans many a Man ; And slew the Sultans Cousin dear , Beside the haughty Colbron . Exkeldred , the famous Knight , To Death likewise I did pursue ; And Almain , King of Tyre also , Most terrible in Fight to view , I went into the Soldan's Host , Being thither on Embassage sen And brought away his Head with me , I having slave him in his Tent. There was a Dragon in the Land , Which I also myself did slay , As he a Lion did pursue , Most fiercely met me by the Way : From thence I pass'd the Seas of Greece , And came to Pavy Land aright , Where I the Duke of Pavy kill'd , His heinous Treason to requite . And after came into this Land , Towards fair Phillis Lady bright ; For Love of whom I travell'd far , To try my Manhood and my Migh But when I had espoused her , I stayed with her but forty Days ; But then I left this Lady bright , And then I went beyond the Seas . All clad in Gray , in Pilgrim sort , My Voyage from her I did take Unto that blessed Holy Land , For Jesus Christ my Saviour's Sake : Where I Earl Jonas did redeem , And all his Sons that were Fifteen , Who with the cruel Sarazen , In Prison for long Time had been . I slew the Giant Amarant , In Battle fiercely Hand to Hand ; And doughty Barknard killed I , The mighty Duke of that same Land : Then I to England came again , And here with Colbron fell I fought ; And ugly Giant , that the Danes Had for their Champion hither brought . I overcame him in the Field , And slew him dead right valiantly ; Where I the Land did then redeem From Danish Tribute utterly : And afterwards I offer'd up The Use of Weapons solemnly At Winchester , when as I fought In Sighed of many far and nigh . In Windsor Forest I did slay A Boar of passing Might and Strength , The like in England never was In Bigness both for Breath and Length : Some of his Bones in Warwick yet Within the Castle there do lie ; One of his Shield-bones to this Day Hangs in the City of Coventry . On Dunsmoreheath I also slew A monstrous , wild , and cruel Beast , Call'd , The Don Cow bf Dunsmoreheath , Which many People had oppress Some of her Bones in Warwick yet , Still for a Monument do lie , Which unto every Looker's View , As Wonders strange they may espy . And the Dragons in the Land , I also did in Sighed destroy , That did both Man and Beast oppress , And all the Country soar annoy : And then to Warwick came again Like Pilgrim poor , and was not known ; And there I liv'd a Hermit's Life , A Mile and more out of the Town . Where with my Hands I hew'd a House Out of a craggy Rock of Stone , And lived like a Palmer poor , Within that Cave myself alone : And daily came to beg my Food Of Phillis , at my Castle-gate ; Not known unto my loving Wife , Who daily mourned for her Mate . Till at the last I fell soar Sick , Yea , soar so Sick , that I must die ; I sent to her a Ring of Gold , By which she knew me presently : Then she repaired to the Cave , Before that I gave up the Ghost , Herself clos'd up my dying Eyes , My Phillis fair whom I lov'd most . Thus dreadful Death did me arrest , To bring my Corpse unto the Grave ; And like Palmer died I , Whereby I hope my Soul to save : My Body in Warwick yet does lie , Though it is now consum'd to Mould ; My Stature was engraven i [ n ] Stone , This present Day you may behold . 