A True RELATION of the Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover . WHEN Flora with her fragrant Flowers , Bedeck'd the Earth so trim and gay , And Iris with his dainty Showers , Came to present the Month of May ; King Henry he would a Hunting ride ; Over the River of Thames pass'd he , Unto a Mountain top also , Did walk some Pleasures for to see . Where forty Merchant's he espy'd , With forty Sail come towards him : Who then no sooner were arriv'd , But on their knees did thus complain . An't please your Grace we cannot sail , Unto France a Voyage to besure : But Sir Barton he makes us quail , And robs us of our Merchant's store . Vex'd was the King and turning him , Said to the Lords of high degree Have I ne'er a Lord within my Realm , Dares fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him reply'd Charles Lord Howard , I will my Liege , with Heart and Hand If it please you , grant me leave he said I will perform what you command . To him then spoke King Henry , I fear my Lord you are too young : No whit at all my Liege quoth he , I hope to prove in Valour strong . The Scotch Knight now I vow to seek , In what Place soe'er he be ; And bring him ashore with all might , Or into Scotland he shall carry me . A Hundred Men the King then said Out of my Realm shall chosen be ; Beside Sailors and Ship Boys , For to guide a Ship on the Sea. Bowmen and Gunners of good Skill , Shall for this service chosen be ; And they at thy Command and Will , In all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard call'd a Gunner then ; Who was the best in all the Realm ; His age was threescore Years and ten , And Peter Simon was his name . My Lord call'd then a Bowman rare , Whose active hands had gained Fame ; A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , And William Horsly was his Name . Horsly , quoth he , I must go to Sea , For to seek a traitor with good speed : Of a hundred Bowmen brave quoth he , I shave chosen thee to be their Head. If you my Lord , have chosen me , Of a Hundred Men to be their head , Upon the Mainmast I will be hang'd , If Twelvescore I miss a Shillings Breadth . Lord Howard then of Courage bold , Went to the Sea with pleasant Cheer , Not curb'd with Winter's piercing Cold , Tho' 'twas a stormy Time of Year , Not long he had been on the Sea , More in Days than number three ; But one Harry Hunt he there espy'd , A Merchant of Newcastle has he . To him Lord Howard call'd out amain , And strictly charged him to stand ; Demanding then from whence he came , Or whence he did intend to Land. The merchant then made answer soon , With heavy heart and careful Mind . My Lord , my Ship it does belong Unto Newcastle-upon-Tyne . Can'st thou show me , the Lord did say , As thou didst sail by day or night , A Scotish Rover on the Seas , His name is Andrew Barton , Knight , At this the Merchant sigh'd and said , With grieved Mind and Well-a way But overwell I know that Wight , I was his Prisoner but Yesterday , As I my Lord did sail from France , A Bourdeaux Voyage to take so far ; I met with Sir Andrew Barton Knight , Who robb'd me of my Merchant-ware . And Much Debts , God-wot I owe , And every man does crave his own , And I am bound for London now ; Of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , Let me but once the Villain see ; And ev'ry Penny he hath from thee ta'en , I'll double it with Shillings three Now God forbid , the Merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss ; God bless you from his Tyranny . For little do you think what a Man he is , He is brass within , and Steel without , His Ship most huge and mighty strong ; With eighteen Pieces of Ordinance , He carrieth on each side along . With Beams for his Top castle . As being also hugh and high : That neither English nor Portugal Can Sir Andrew Barton once pass by . Hard News thou shewest then said the Lord For to welcome Angels unto the Sea ; But as I said , I'll being him abroad , Or into Scotland he shall carry me . The Merchant said , if you will do so , Take Counsel then I pray withal : Let no Man to his Top-Castle go , Nor strive to let his Beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of Ordinance then , On each side of my Ship , said he : And by Tomorrow my good Lord , Again I will your Honour see . A glass I'll set as may be seen , Whither you sail by Day or Night , And Tomorrow besure before Seven , You shall meet Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The Merchant set my Lord a Glass , So well apparent in his sighed ; That on the morrow as the Promise was , He saw Sir Andrew Barton Knight . , The Lord then swore a mighty Oath , Now by the Heavens that be of Might , By faith believe me , and by Troth , I think he is a worthy Knight . Fetch me my Lion out of hand , Says he , with Rose and Streamers high ; Set up withal a willow wand , That merchantlike I may pass by That bravely did Lord Howard pass . And on and Anchor rose so high ; No Top-Sail at Length he cast , But as a Foe did him defy : Sir Andrew Barton seeing him , Thus scornfully for to pass by , As tho' he cared not a Pin For him and his Company , Then called he for his men amain , Fetch back yond Pedlar , now quoth he , And e'er this way he comes again , I'll teach him well his Courtesy , A Pieces of Ordinance being shot , By this proud pyrate fiercely then ; Into Lord Howard's Middle-deck ; Which cruel shot kill'd fourteen Men ; He call'd them Peter Simon he , Look now thy Word do stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on Man-mast , If thou miss twelvescore one shillings breadth Then Peter Simon gave a shot , Which Sir Andrew muckle scare ; In at his Deck it came so hight , Kill'd fifteen of his Men of war ; Alas ! then said the Pyrate stout , I am in Danger now I see ; This is some Lord I greatly fear , Who is sat out to conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with Rigour hight , Came bravely on the other side ; Who likewise shot in at his deck , And kill'd Fifty of his men beside ; Then out alas ! Sir Andrew cry'd , What may a man now think or say ; You Merchant Thief that pierces me , He was my Prisoner Yesterday . Then did he on Gordion call , Unto the TopsCastle for to go : And bid his Beams he should let fallen ; For he greatly fear'd and Overthrow . The Lord call'd Hosley then in haste , Look that thy word do stand instead ; For hanged thou shalt be on Mainmast If thou miss twelvescore a shillings breadth . Then up the Mainmast swerved he , This stout and mighty Gordion ; But Horsly he most happily Shot him under the Collar Bone . Then call'd he on his Nephew , and Said , Sister's Son , I have no more ; Three Hundred Pounds I will give thee , If thou wilt to the Top Castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , For off the Mast scorn'd to depar But Horsly soon prevented him , And deadly pierc'd him to the Heart . His men being slave then up amain Did this droved Pyrate climb with speed , For Armour of proof he had put on , And not Hint of arrows dread . Come hither Horsly said the Lord , See thou thy arrows aim right ; Great Means to thee I'll sure afford , And if thou speed'st thou shalt be a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the Tree , With right good will and all his Main ; Then upon his breast hit Horsley he , But the arrow did return again . Then Horsley 'spy'd a private Place , With a Private Eye in a secret Part , His arrows swiftly flew apace , And smote Sir Andrew to the Heart . Fight on fight on my merry Men , A little I'm hurt but am not slave , I will lie down and bleed a while , And come and fight with you again . And don't said he fear English Rogues , And of your Foes stand not in awe ; But stand fast by St Andrew's Cross , Until you hear my Whistle blow , They never herd his Whistle blow . Which made them all most soar afraid ; Then Horsley said my Lord aboard , For now Sir Andrew Barton's dead . Thus boarded they this gallant Ship , With right Good will and all their Main , Eighteenscore Scots alive in it , Beside as many more were slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , And quickly then cut off his head . I should leave England many a Day , If thou were alive , as thou art dead . Thus from the war Lord Howard came With muckle Joy and Triumphing ; The Pyrate's Head he brought along , For to present unto the King , Who briefly unto hin did say , Before he well knew what was done , Where is the Knight and Pyrate gay . That I myself may give the doom ? You may thank God , then said the Lord , And four Men in the Ship , quoth he . That we are safel A True RELATION of the Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover . WHEN Flora with her fragrant Flowers , Bedeck'd the Earth so trim and gay , And Iris with his dainty Showers , Came to present the Month of May ; King Henry he would a Hunting ride ; Over the River of Thames pass'd he , Unto a Mountain top also , Did walk some Pleasures for to see . Where forty Merchant's he espy'd , With forty Sail come towards him : Who then no sooner were arriv'd , But on their knees did thus complain . An't please your Grace we cannot sail , Unto France a Voyage to besure : But Sir Barton he makes us quail , And robs us of our Merchant's store . Vex'd was the King and turning him , Said to the Lords of high degree Have I ne'er a Lord within my Realm , Dares fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him reply'd Charles Lord Howard , I will my Liege , with Heart and Hand If it please you , grant me leave he said I will perform what you command . To him then spoke King Henry , I fear my Lord you are too young : No whit at all my Liege quoth he , I hope to prove in Valour strong . The Scotch Knight now I vow to seek , In what Place soe'er he be ; And bring him ashore with all might , Or into Scotland he shall carry me . A Hundred Men the King then said Out of my Realm shall chosen be ; Beside Sailors and Ship Boys , For to guide a Ship on the Sea. Bowmen and Gunners of good Skill , Shall for this service chosen be ; And they at thy Command and Will , In all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard call'd a Gunner then ; Who was the best in all the Realm ; His age was threescore Years and ten , And Peter Simon was his name . My Lord call'd then a Bowman rare , Whose active hands had gained Fame ; A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , And William Horsly was his Name . Horsly , quoth he , I must go to Sea , For to seek a traitor with good speed : Of a hundred Bowmen brave quoth he , I shave chosen thee to be their Head. If you my Lord , have chosen me , Of a Hundred Men to be their head , Upon the Mainmast I will be hang'd , If Twelvescore I miss a Shillings Breadth . Lord Howard then of Courage bold , Went to the Sea with pleasant Cheer , Not curb'd with Winter's piercing Cold , Tho' 'twas a stormy Time of Year , Not long he had been on the Sea , More in Days than number three ; But one Harry Hunt he there espy'd , A Merchant of Newcastle has he . To him Lord Howard call'd out amain , And strictly charged him to stand ; Demanding then from whence he came , Or whence he did intend to Land. The merchant then made answer soon , With heavy heart and careful Mind . My Lord , my Ship it does belong Unto Newcastle-upon-Tyne . Can'st thou show me , the Lord did say , As thou didst sail by day or night , A Scotish Rover on the Seas , His name is Andrew Barton , Knight , At this the Merchant sigh'd and said , With grieved Mind and Well-a way But overwell I know that Wight , I was his Prisoner but Yesterday , As I my Lord did sail from France , A Bourdeaux Voyage to take so far ; I met with Sir Andrew Barton Knight , Who robb'd me of my Merchant-ware . And Much Debts , God-wot I owe , And every man does crave his own , And I am bound for London now ; Of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , Let me but once the Villain see ; And ev'ry Penny he hath from thee ta'en , I'll double it with Shillings three Now God forbid , the Merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss ; God bless you from his Tyranny . For little do you think what a Man he is , He is brass within , and Steel without , His Ship most huge and mighty strong ; With eighteen Pieces of Ordinance , He carrieth on each side along . With Beams for his Top castle . As being also hugh and high : That neither English nor Portugal Can Sir Andrew Barton once pass by . Hard News thou shewest then said the Lord For to welcome Angels unto the Sea ; But as I said , I'll being him abroad , Or into Scotland he shall carry me . The Merchant said , if you will do so , Take Counsel then I pray withal : Let no Man to his Top-Castle go , Nor strive to let his Beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of Ordinance then , On each side of my Ship , said he : And by Tomorrow my good Lord , Again I will your Honour see . A glass I'll set as may be seen , Whither you sail by Day or Night , And Tomorrow besure before Seven , You shall meet Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The Merchant set my Lord a Glass , So well apparent in his sighed ; That on the morrow as the Promise was , He saw Sir Andrew Barton Knight . , The Lord then swore a mighty Oath , Now by the Heavens that be of Might , By faith believe me , and by Troth , I think he is a worthy Knight . Fetch me my Lion out of hand , Says he , with Rose and Streamers high ; Set up withal a willow wand , That merchantlike I may pass by That bravely did Lord Howard pass . And on and Anchor rose so high ; No Top-Sail at Length he cast , But as a Foe did him defy : Sir Andrew Barton seeing him , Thus scornfully for to pass by , As tho' he cared not a Pin For him and his Company , Then called he for his men amain , Fetch back yond Pedlar , now quoth he , And e'er this way he comes again , I'll teach him well his Courtesy , A Pieces of Ordinance being shot , By this proud pyrate fiercely then ; Into Lord Howard's Middle-deck ; Which cruel shot kill'd fourteen Men ; He call'd them Peter Simon he , Look now thy Word do stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on Man-mast , If thou miss twelvescore one shillings breadth Then Peter Simon gave a shot , Which Sir Andrew muckle scare ; In at his Deck it came so hight , Kill'd fifteen of his Men of war ; Alas ! then said the Pyrate stout , I am in Danger now I see ; This is some Lord I greatly fear , Who is sat out to conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with Rigour hight , Came bravely on the other side ; Who likewise shot in at his deck , And kill'd Fifty of his men beside ; Then out alas ! Sir Andrew cry'd , What may a man now think or say ; You Merchant Thief that pierces me , He was my Prisoner Yesterday . Then did he on Gordion call , Unto the TopsCastle for to go : And bid his Beams he should let fallen ; For he greatly fear'd and Overthrow . The Lord call'd Hosley then in haste , Look that thy word do stand instead ; For hanged thou shalt be on Mainmast If thou miss twelvescore a shillings breadth . Then up the Mainmast swerved he , This stout and mighty Gordion ; But Horsly he most happily Shot him under the Collar Bone . Then call'd he on his Nephew , and Said , Sister's Son , I have no more ; Three Hundred Pounds I will give thee , If thou wilt to the Top Castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , For off the Mast scorn'd to depar But Horsly soon prevented him , And deadly pierc'd him to the Heart . His men being slave then up amain Did this droved Pyrate climb with speed , For Armour of proof he had put on , And not Hint of arrows dread . Come hither Horsly said the Lord , See thou thy arrows aim right ; Great Means to thee I'll sure afford , And if thou speed'st thou shalt be a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the Tree , With right good will and all his Main ; Then upon his breast hit Horsley he , But the arrow did return again . Then Horsley 'spy'd a private Place , With a Private Eye in a secret Part , His arrows swiftly flew apace , And smote Sir Andrew to the Heart . Fight on fight on my merry Men , A little I'm hurt but am not slave , I will lie down and bleed a while , And come and fight with you again . And don't said he fear English Rogues , And of your Foes stand not in awe ; But stand fast by St Andrew's Cross , Until you hear my Whistle blow , They never herd his Whistle blow . Which made them all most soar afraid ; Then Horsley said my Lord aboard , For now Sir Andrew Barton's dead . Thus boarded they this gallant Ship , With right Good will and all their Main , Eighteenscore Scots alive in it , Beside as many more were slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , And quickly then cut off his head . I should leave England many a Day , If thou were alive , as thou art dead . Thus from the war Lord Howard came With muckle Joy and Triumphing ; The Pyrate's Head he brought along , For to present unto the King , Who briefly unto hin did say , Before he well knew what was done , Where is the Knight and Pyrate gay . That I myself may give the doom ? You may thank God , then said the Lord , And four Men in the Ship , quoth he . That we are safely come on shore , Sith you never had such and Enemy That is Henry Hunt and Peter Simon , William Horsly , and Peter's Son ; Therefore reward them for their Pains , For they did Service in their turn . To the merchant therefore the King said , In lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I'll give to the a Noble a Day Sir Andrew Whistle and his chain . To Peter Simon a Crown a Day ; And half a Crown to Peter's Son ; And that was for a Shot so gay , Which bravely brought Sir Andrew down . Horsley , I will make thee a Knight ; And in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell ; Lord Howard shall Lord Bury be , For this act deserveth well . Ninety Pounds our Englishmen , Who in this Fight did stoutly stand . And Twelvepence a Day to the Scots , till this Come to my Brother King's High-Land . Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow -- Yard . Church London . y come on shore , Sith you never had such and Enemy That is Henry Hunt and Peter Simon , William Horsly , and Peter's Son ; Therefore reward them for their Pains , For they did Service in their turn . To the merchant therefore the King said , In lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I'll give to the a Noble a Day Sir Andrew Whistle and his chain . To Peter Simon a Crown a Day ; And half a Crown to Peter's Son ; And that was for a Shot so gay , Which bravely brought Sir Andrew down . Horsley , I will make thee a Knight ; And in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell ; Lord Howard shall Lord Bury be , For this act deserveth well . Ninety Pounds our Englishmen , Who in this Fight did stoutly stand . And Twelvepence a Day to the Scots , till this Come to my Brother King's High-Land . Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow -- Yard . Church London . 