And Excellent OLD BALLAD , entitled , The Wandering PRINCE of TROY . WHEN Troy town had for ten years wars , Withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , That to resist none could suffice ; Waste lie those walls that are so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . Eneas , wandering Prince of Troy , When he for land long time had sought , At length arriving with great joy , To mighty Carthage walls was brought , Where Dido , Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain her wandering guest . And as in hall at meat they sat , The Queen desires now to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , Declare to me thou Trojan dear ; Thine heavy hand and change so bad , Which thou poor wandering prince haste had . And then anon this worthy Prince , With words demure , as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , So sure a tale began to tell : The Carthage Queen with sighs so deep , On hearing him did nought but weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetch'd , And every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , As if he'd seen these wars again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince , enough , no more . The darksome night drew on a - pace , And twinkling stars from skies were fled , And he his doleful tale had told , And every one lay in his bed ; Where he full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept , But in her chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept ; Unto the walls she made her moan . That she should so desire in vain The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , Till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phebus with his glimmering beams , Thro' misty clouds appeared read , Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody knife , Aim'd at her heart as hard as stone ; Yet somewhat loath to loose her life , Unto herself did make great moan ; And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen , quoth she , I see thy end approaching near ; For he is gone away from thee . Whom thou do'st love and hold so dear ! Is he then gone and passed by ? O heart , prepare thyself to die . Tho' reason would thou should forbear , And stop thy hand from bloody stroke ; Yet fancy says , thou would'st not spare Who fetters thee in Cupid's yoke . Come death , said she , and end the smart , And with these words she pierc'd her heart . When death had pierc'd the tender heart , Of Dido , Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart , Which she sustain'd in woeful teen . Eneas being ship'd and gone , Whose flatt'ry caused all her moan . Her funeral most costly made , And all things finish'd mournfully , Her body in the ground was laid , Where it consumed speedily . Her sister's tears her tomb bedew'd , Her subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was Eneas in and isle In Greece , where he lived a long space ; Whereas his sister in a short time Wrote to him to his soul's disgrace , In phrase of letter to her mind , She told him plainly he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch , quoth she , thou art , And treacherously thou hast betray'd Unto thyself a gentle heart , Which unto thee such welcome made , My sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her death bed as she lay , She pray'd for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day , Might breed thee great felicity ; Thus by thy means I lost a friend ; Heaven send thee and untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall Perus'd and weigh'd them aright , His lofty courage then did fallen , And strait appeared in his sighed Queen Dido's ghost , both grim and pale , Which made this lofty soldier quail . Eneas , quoth this gris [ s ] lie ghost , My whole delight while I did live , Three of all men I loved most , My fancy and my will did give . For the entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou dig'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul To wander with me in the air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , Because of me thou took'st no care : Delay no time thy glass is run , For life is gone and aeath is come . O stay awhile thou lovely spright , Be not so ready to convey My soul into eternal night , Where it shail ne'er behold the day . O do not frown ! thy angry look Hath made my breath my life forsake . But woe is me ! it is in vain , And bootless is my cry ; Time will not be recall'd again , Nor you surcease before I die . O let me live to make amends , Unto some of my dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art And wilt not pity to me show , Because I did from thee depart , And left unpaid what I did owe : I must content myself to take , What lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being a trance , A multitude of ugly fiends About this woeful prince did dance , No help had he of any friends . His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying-day . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yvrd , Bow Lane , London . And Excellent OLD BALLAD , entitled , The Wandering PRINCE of TROY . WHEN Troy town had for ten years wars , Withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , That to resist none could suffice ; Waste lie those walls that are so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . Eneas , wandering Prince of Troy , When he for land long time had sought , At length arriving with great joy , To mighty Carthage walls was brought , Where Dido , Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain her wandering guest . And as in hall at meat they sat , The Queen desires now to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , Declare to me thou Trojan dear ; Thine heavy hand and change so bad , Which thou poor wandering prince haste had . And then anon this worthy Prince , With words demure , as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , So sure a tale began to tell : The Carthage Queen with sighs so deep , On hearing him did nought but weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetch'd , And every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , As if he'd seen these wars again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince , enough , no more . The darksome night drew on a - pace , And twinkling stars from skies were fled , And he his doleful tale had told , And every one lay in his bed ; Where he full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept , But in her chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept ; Unto the walls she made her moan . That she should so desire in vain The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , Till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phebus with his glimmering beams , Thro' misty clouds appeared read , Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody knife , Aim'd at her heart as hard as stone ; Yet somewhat loath to loose her life , Unto herself did make great moan ; And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen , quoth she , I see thy end approaching near ; For he is gone away from thee . Whom thou do'st love and hold so dear ! Is he then gone and passed by ? O heart , prepare thyself to die . Tho' reason would thou should forbear , And stop thy hand from bloody stroke ; Yet fancy says , thou would'st not spare Who fetters thee in Cupid's yoke . Come death , said she , and end the smart , And with these words she pierc'd her heart . When death had pierc'd the tender heart , Of Dido , Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart , Which she sustain'd in woeful teen . Eneas being ship'd and gone , Whose flatt'ry caused all her moan . Her funeral most costly made , And all things finish'd mournfully , Her body in the ground was laid , Where it consumed speedily . Her sister's tears her tomb bedew'd , Her subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was Eneas in and isle In Greece , where he lived a long space ; Whereas his sister in a short time Wrote to him to his soul's disgrace , In phrase of letter to her mind , She told him plainly he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch , quoth she , thou art , And treacherously thou hast betray'd Unto thyself a gentle heart , Which unto thee such welcome made , My sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her death bed as she lay , She pray'd for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day , Might breed thee great felicity ; Thus by thy means I lost a friend ; Heaven send thee and untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall Perus'd and weigh'd them aright , His lofty courage then did fallen , And strait appeared in his sighed Queen Dido's ghost , both grim and pale , Which made this lofty soldier quail . Eneas , quoth this gris [ s ] lie ghost , My whole delight while I did live , Three of all men I loved most , My fancy and my will did give . For the entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou dig'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul To wander with me in the air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , Because of me thou took'st no care : Delay no time thy glass is run , For life is gone and aeath is come . O stay awhile thou lovely spright , Be not so ready to convey My soul into eternal night , Where it shail ne'er behold the day . O do not frown ! thy angry look Hath made my breath my life forsake . But woe is me ! it is in vain , And bootless is my cry ; Time will not be recall'd again , Nor you surcease before I die . O let me live to make amends , Unto some of my dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art And wilt not pity to me show , Because I did from thee depart , And left unpaid what I did owe : I must content myself to take , What lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being a trance , A multitude of ugly fiends About this woeful prince did dance , No help had he of any friends . His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying-day . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yvrd , Bow Lane , London . 