Robin Hood and Little John , Being and Account of their first Meeting , and fierce Encounter . Likewise their Friendly Agreement , and how he came to be call'd Little John. WHen Robin Hood was about twenty Years old , With a heigh down , down , and a down . he happen'd to meet Little John. A jolly brisk Blade , right fit for his Trade , for he was a lusty Young-Man . Tho' he was call'd Little , his Limbs were large , and his Stature was seven Feet high ; Wherever he came , they quak'd at his Name , for soon he would make them to fly . How they came acquainted I'll tell you in brief , if you will but listen awhile ; For this single Jest among all the rest , I'm sure it will make you to smile . For Robin Hood said to his jolly Bowmen , Pray tarry you here in the Grove ; And see that you all observe well my Call , while thro' the Forest I do rove . We have had no Sport these fourteen long Days , therefore now abroad I will go . But should I be beatrice and cannot retreat , my Horn I will presently blow . Then did he shake hands with his merry Men , and bid them at present Goodby ; Then as near to a Brook his Journey he took , a St [ r ] anger he happen'd to 'spy . They happen'd to meet on a long narrow Bridge , and neither of them would give Way . Quoth bold Robin Hood , and sturdily stood , I'll show you right Nottingham Play . With that from his Quiver and Arrow he drew , a broad Arrow with a Goose Wing : The Stranger reply'd , I'll liquour thy Hide , if you offer to draw but a string . Quoth bold Robin Hood , thou dost prate like and Ass , for were I to bend but my Bow ; I could send a Dart quite thro' thy proud Heart , before thou could'st strike me one Blow . Thou talk'st like a Coward the Stranger reply'd ; well arm'd with a long Bow you stand ; To shoot at my Breast , while I do protest , I have nought but a Staff in my hand . The Name of a Coward quoth , Robin I scorn , wherefore my long Bow I'll lay by : And now for thy sake a Staff I will take , the Truth of thy Manhood to try . Then Robin Hood stepped to a thicket of Trees , and changed [ oh ] se him a Staff of Ground Oak . Now this being done , to the Stranger he run , and thus to him merrily spoke . Lo ! here , see my St [ a ] ff it is lusty and tough ; now here on this Bridge we will play . Whoever falls in the [ oh ] th [ e ] r shall win the Battle , and so we'll away . With all my whole Heart the Sranger reply'd , I scorn in the least to give out ; This said , they fell to't without more Dispute , and their Staffs they did flourish about . And first Robin gave the Stranger a Bang , so hard thot he made his Bones ring : The Stranger he said , this must be repaid , I'll give you as good as you bring . So long as I'm able to handle my Staff : to die in your Debt Friend I scorn ; Then to it both goes , and follow their Blows , as tho' they were thrashing of Corn . The Stranger gave Robin a Crack on the Crown , which caused the Blood to appear : Then Robin enraged more fiercely engaged , and follow'd his Blows more sincere . So thick and so fast he did lay it on him with a passionate Fury and Ire : At every stroke he made him to smoke as though he had been all on Fire . O then in a Fury the Stranger he grew ; and gave him a damnable Look , And with it a Blow which laid him full low , and tumbled him into the Brook . I prithee good Fellow where art thou now ? the Stranger in Laughter he cry'd , Quoth bold Robin Hood , good faith in the Flood , and floating along with the Tide . I needs must acknowledge thou art a brave Soul , with thee I'll no longer contend : For needs must I say thou hast god the Day ; our Battle shall be at and End. Then strait to the Bank he did presently Wade , and pull'd himself out by a Thorn ; Which done at the last he blew a loud Blast , straightway on his fine Bugle Horn . The Echo of which through the Valleys did ring , at which his stout Bowmen appear'd ; All clothed in Green , most gay to be seen ; then up to their Master they steer'd . O what is the Matter quoth William Stutely ? good Master you are wet to the Skin ; No Matter said he , the Lad that you see in Fighting hath tumbled me in . He shall not go Scotfree the others reply'd , so strait they were seizing him there ; To duck him likewise , but Robin Hood cries he is a good Fellow , forbear . There is no one shall wrong thee , so be not afraid these Bowmen upon me do wait . There's Threescore and nine , if thou wilt be mine , thou shalt have my Livery strait . And other Accoutrements fitting also : speak up Jolly Blade never fear : I shall teach thee also the Use of the Bow to shoot at the fair Fallow Deer . O here is my Hand , the Stranger reply'd , I'll serve you with all my Hear My Name is John Little , a Man of much Mettle ; never doubt me but I shall play my Part. His Name shall be alter'd quoth William Stutely : and I will his Godfather be : Prepare then a Feast , and none of the least ; for we will be merry quoth he . They soon did fetch in a Brace of fat Does : with humming strong Liquour likewise : They lov'd that was good ; so in the Green Wood this lovely sweet Babe they Babtize . He was I must tell you but seven Feet high , and may be and Ell in the Waist A pretty sweet Lad : much Feasting they had : bold Robin the Christening grac'd With all his Bowmen that stood in a Ring , and were of the Nottingham Breed : Brave Stately came then with seven Yeomen , and did in this Manner proceed . This Infant was called Little John quoth he : which Name shall be changed anon : The Words we'll transpose , wherever he goes , him [ s ] Name shall be call'd Little John They all with a shout made the Elements ring : so soon as the Office was o'er : To Feasting they went in great Merrimen and tippled strong Liquour golore . Then Robin Hood took the pretty fine Babe , and cloath'd him from Top to the Toe : In Garments of Green so gay to be seen : and gives him a curious long Bow. Thou shalt be and Archer as well as the bes and range in the Green Woods with us : Where we'll not want Gold , nor Silver behold ; while Bishops have ought in their Purse . We live here like Squires or Lords of Renown , without ever a Foot of Free Land : We feast on good Cheer ; with Ale , Wine or Beers : and every Thing at Command . Then Music and Dancing did finish the Day : at length when the Sun waxed low : Then all the whole train the Grove did refrain , and unto their Caves they did go ; And thus ever after as long as he liv'd , altho' he was proper and tall ; Yet nevertheless the Truth to express , still Little John they do him call . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , LONDON . Robin Hood and Little John , Being and Account of their first Meeting , and fierce Encounter . Likewise their Friendly Agreement , and how he came to be call'd Little John. WHen Robin Hood was about twenty Years old , With a heigh down , down , and a down . he happen'd to meet Little John. A jolly brisk Blade , right fit for his Trade , for he was a lusty Young-Man . Tho' he was call'd Little , his Limbs were large , and his Stature was seven Feet high ; Wherever he came , they quak'd at his Name , for soon he would make them to fly . How they came acquainted I'll tell you in brief , if you will but listen awhile ; For this single Jest among all the rest , I'm sure it will make you to smile . For Robin Hood said to his jolly Bowmen , Pray tarry you here in the Grove ; And see that you all observe well my Call , while thro' the Forest I do rove . We have had no Sport these fourteen long Days , therefore now abroad I will go . But should I be beatrice and cannot retreat , my Horn I will presently blow . Then did he shake hands with his merry Men , and bid them at present Goodby ; Then as near to a Brook his Journey he took , a St [ r ] anger he happen'd to 'spy . They happen'd to meet on a long narrow Bridge , and neither of them would give Way . Quoth bold Robin Hood , and sturdily stood , I'll show you right Nottingham Play . With that from his Quiver and Arrow he drew , a broad Arrow with a Goose Wing : The Stranger reply'd , I'll liquour thy Hide , if you offer to draw but a string . Quoth bold Robin Hood , thou dost prate like and Ass , for were I to bend but my Bow ; I could send a Dart quite thro' thy proud Heart , before thou could'st strike me one Blow . Thou talk'st like a Coward the Stranger reply'd ; well arm'd with a long Bow you stand ; To shoot at my Breast , while I do protest , I have nought but a Staff in my hand . The Name of a Coward quoth , Robin I scorn , wherefore my long Bow I'll lay by : And now for thy sake a Staff I will take , the Truth of thy Manhood to try . Then Robin Hood stepped to a thicket of Trees , and changed [ oh ] se him a Staff of Ground Oak . Now this being done , to the Stranger he run , and thus to him merrily spoke . Lo ! here , see my St [ a ] ff it is lusty and tough ; now here on this Bridge we will play . Whoever falls in the [ oh ] th [ e ] r shall win the Battle , and so we'll away . With all my whole Heart the Sranger reply'd , I scorn in the least to give out ; This said , they fell to't without more Dispute , and their Staffs they did flourish about . And first Robin gave the Stranger a Bang , so hard thot he made his Bones ring : The Stranger he said , this must be repaid , I'll give you as good as you bring . So long as I'm able to handle my Staff : to die in your Debt Friend I scorn ; Then to it both goes , and follow their Blows , as tho' they were thrashing of Corn . The Stranger gave Robin a Crack on the Crown , which caused the Blood to appear : Then Robin enraged more fiercely engaged , and follow'd his Blows more sincere . So thick and so fast he did lay it on him with a passionate Fury and Ire : At every stroke he made him to smoke as though he had been all on Fire . O then in a Fury the Stranger he grew ; and gave him a damnable Look , And with it a Blow which laid him full low , and tumbled him into the Brook . I prithee good Fellow where art thou now ? the Stranger in Laughter he cry'd , Quoth bold Robin Hood , good faith in the Flood , and floating along with the Tide . I needs must acknowledge thou art a brave Soul , with thee I'll no longer contend : For needs must I say thou hast god the Day ; our Battle shall be at and End. Then strait to the Bank he did presently Wade , and pull'd himself out by a Thorn ; Which done at the last he blew a loud Blast , straightway on his fine Bugle Horn . The Echo of which through the Valleys did ring , at which his stout Bowmen appear'd ; All clothed in Green , most gay to be seen ; then up to their Master they steer'd . O what is the Matter quoth William Stutely ? good Master you are wet to the Skin ; No Matter said he , the Lad that you see in Fighting hath tumbled me in . He shall not go Scotfree the others reply'd , so strait they were seizing him there ; To duck him likewise , but Robin Hood cries he is a good Fellow , forbear . There is no one shall wrong thee , so be not afraid these Bowmen upon me do wait . There's Threescore and nine , if thou wilt be mine , thou shalt have my Livery strait . And other Accoutrements fitting also : speak up Jolly Blade never fear : I shall teach thee also the Use of the Bow to shoot at the fair Fallow Deer . O here is my Hand , the Stranger reply'd , I'll serve you with all my Hear My Name is John Little , a Man of much Mettle ; never doubt me but I shall play my Part. His Name shall be alter'd quoth William Stutely : and I will his Godfather be : Prepare then a Feast , and none of the least ; for we will be merry quoth he . They soon did fetch in a Brace of fat Does : with humming strong Liquour likewise : They lov'd that was good ; so in the Green Wood this lovely sweet Babe they Babtize . He was I must tell you but seven Feet high , and may be and Ell in the Waist A pretty sweet Lad : much Feasting they had : bold Robin the Christening grac'd With all his Bowmen that stood in a Ring , and were of the Nottingham Breed : Brave Stately came then with seven Yeomen , and did in this Manner proceed . This Infant was called Little John quoth he : which Name shall be changed anon : The Words we'll transpose , wherever he goes , him [ s ] Name shall be call'd Little John They all with a shout made the Elements ring : so soon as the Office was o'er : To Feasting they went in great Merrimen and tippled strong Liquour golore . Then Robin Hood took the pretty fine Babe , and cloath'd him from Top to the Toe : In Garments of Green so gay to be seen : and gives him a curious long Bow. Thou shalt be and Archer as well as the bes and range in the Green Woods with us : Where we'll not want Gold , nor Silver behold ; while Bishops have ought in their Purse . We live here like Squires or Lords of Renown , without ever a Foot of Free Land : We feast on good Cheer ; with Ale , Wine or Beers : and every Thing at Command . Then Music and Dancing did finish the Day : at length when the Sun waxed low : Then all the whole train the Grove did refrain , and unto their Caves they did go ; And thus ever after as long as he liv'd , altho' he was proper and tall ; Yet nevertheless the Truth to express , still Little John they do him call . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , LONDON . 