The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's Wife of Plymouth . UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace that proffer'd grace did scorn . My lawless love has luckless wrought my woe , My discontent content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repent . A wife I was that wilful went away , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my Will a match for me did find ; Great wealth there was , yea gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik'd my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My childish mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I pray'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd their purpose to refrain . With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed with him I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did preven Tho' wealthy Page possess'd the outward part , George Strangwidge was lodg'd within my heart . I wedded was , and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow . I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because by force I was made Page's wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side . Scarce could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . 'Cause I knew none that I should slight him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow ; Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my love . Lo ! here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mus'd to make him strait away . In that became his discontented wife , Contented that he should be rid of life . Methinks the Heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act . Methinks within me conscience tells me true , That for this deed Hell-fire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For this offence my soul does bleed within . Mercy , Lord , for mercy still I cry : Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his wife . But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life than see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me ! that had no better grace , To stay 'till he had run out nature's raze . My deeds I rue , but more I do repent That to this thing my Strangwidge did consent . I married was in much and endless strife , But faith before did make me Strangwidge's wife . Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom 'twixt parents love and me . I am their child and bound for to obey , But not to love where I no love could lay . To parents found who greedy-minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree . O wretched world ! whom canker'd rust does blind , And cursed men , who bear a greedy mind , And hapless I , whose parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , grief and woe . the Devonshire dams and affable Cornwal knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children prove a better friend . And thou , my dear , who for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia , thy friend , does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell . Sweet Saviour Christ , do thou my soul receive . The world I do with all my heart forgive . And , parents now , whose greedy minds do show , Your heart's desire , and inward mighty woe , Mourn you no more , so now my heart does tell . Ere this day's gone my soul will be right well . O Plymouth proud ! I bid thee now , farewell . Take heed , you wives , let not your hands rebel . And farewell life , wherein such sorrom shows , And welcome grave , that does my corpse enclose . And now , dear Lord , forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance calls for a heart that inward bleeds . My soul and body I recommend to thee , Who with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our king with long and happy life , And send true peace 'twixt each man and his wife . And give all parents wisdom to foresee The match is spoil'd where minds do not agree . Mrs. PAGE's Complaint for causing her Husband to be Murdered for Love of GEORGE STRANGE - WIDGE . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or since did gall for grief the outward part . My conscience then and heavy heart within Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When years were young my father made me wed Against my will where fancy was not fed . I was content his pleasure to obey , Altho' my heart was link'd another way . Great were the gifts they offer'd in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight , But gold nor gifts my mind could not remove , For I was link'd whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly ; This discontent did cause me deadly strife , And with his wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on George Strangwidge set , And woe to him who did our pleasure let ; His love in me so deep a root did take , I would have gone a-begging for his sake . Wronged he was thro' found desire of gain , Wronged he was e'en thro' my parents plain ; If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God! forgive my father's deed , And grant all parents may take better heed . If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not match'd to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away . And he in whom my earthly joys did lie , Thro' my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell , sweet George , always my loving friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end , And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the Heavens I bend , Praying to Christ his mercies to extend , This bloody deed do thou , Oh Lord ! forgive , And let my soul within thy kingdom live . Farewell , false world , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , a warning take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and sinful vice . And now , Oh Christ ! to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death , Pardon my faults and follies I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . GEORGE STRANGWIDGE'S Lamentation for con - senting to PAGE'S Death , for Love of ULALIA , PAGE'S Wife . THE man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe is trapped in , In doleful sort records his swanlike song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long Oh Glansfield ! cause of my committed crime , Sowed in wealth , as birds in bush of lime , What cause hadst thou to bear such spite Against my love , and take my heart's delight ? I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered thy door ; Or that thou hadst a kinder father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for her did make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take . Well mayest thou rue , with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia , more bright than the morning sun , Whose beauty hath for ever my heart wone . My soul sobs more to think of thy disgrace , Than to behold my own untimely raze . This deed late done in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd I cannot yet repent . Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death could her excuser be . It was for me , alas ! thou didst the same , On me by right thou ought to fix the blame ; My worthless love would [ s ] brought thy life to scorn , And woe is me , that ever I was born . Farewell , my love , whose loyal heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been . Farewell , my love , the pride of Plymouth-town , Farewell ; the fairest flower is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost , I know , Thy unkind father did on thee bestow . Yet afterwards kind fortune was severe , He lost his child and joy within and hour . Wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfit . And yet I cannot so my guilt excuse , We gave consent his for to abuse . Wretch that I am that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia st The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's Wife of Plymouth . UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace that proffer'd grace did scorn . My lawless love has luckless wrought my woe , My discontent content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repent . A wife I was that wilful went away , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my Will a match for me did find ; Great wealth there was , yea gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik'd my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My childish mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I pray'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd their purpose to refrain . With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed with him I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did preven Tho' wealthy Page possess'd the outward part , George Strangwidge was lodg'd within my heart . I wedded was , and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow . I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because by force I was made Page's wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side . Scarce could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . 'Cause I knew none that I should slight him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow ; Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my love . Lo ! here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mus'd to make him strait away . In that became his discontented wife , Contented that he should be rid of life . Methinks the Heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act . Methinks within me conscience tells me true , That for this deed Hell-fire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For this offence my soul does bleed within . Mercy , Lord , for mercy still I cry : Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his wife . But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life than see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me ! that had no better grace , To stay 'till he had run out nature's raze . My deeds I rue , but more I do repent That to this thing my Strangwidge did consent . I married was in much and endless strife , But faith before did make me Strangwidge's wife . Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom 'twixt parents love and me . I am their child and bound for to obey , But not to love where I no love could lay . To parents found who greedy-minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree . O wretched world ! whom canker'd rust does blind , And cursed men , who bear a greedy mind , And hapless I , whose parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , grief and woe . the Devonshire dams and affable Cornwal knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children prove a better friend . And thou , my dear , who for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia , thy friend , does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell . Sweet Saviour Christ , do thou my soul receive . The world I do with all my heart forgive . And , parents now , whose greedy minds do show , Your heart's desire , and inward mighty woe , Mourn you no more , so now my heart does tell . Ere this day's gone my soul will be right well . O Plymouth proud ! I bid thee now , farewell . Take heed , you wives , let not your hands rebel . And farewell life , wherein such sorrom shows , And welcome grave , that does my corpse enclose . And now , dear Lord , forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance calls for a heart that inward bleeds . My soul and body I recommend to thee , Who with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our king with long and happy life , And send true peace 'twixt each man and his wife . And give all parents wisdom to foresee The match is spoil'd where minds do not agree . Mrs. PAGE's Complaint for causing her Husband to be Murdered for Love of GEORGE STRANGE - WIDGE . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or since did gall for grief the outward part . My conscience then and heavy heart within Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When years were young my father made me wed Against my will where fancy was not fed . I was content his pleasure to obey , Altho' my heart was link'd another way . Great were the gifts they offer'd in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight , But gold nor gifts my mind could not remove , For I was link'd whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly ; This discontent did cause me deadly strife , And with his wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on George Strangwidge set , And woe to him who did our pleasure let ; His love in me so deep a root did take , I would have gone a-begging for his sake . Wronged he was thro' found desire of gain , Wronged he was e'en thro' my parents plain ; If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God! forgive my father's deed , And grant all parents may take better heed . If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not match'd to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away . And he in whom my earthly joys did lie , Thro' my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell , sweet George , always my loving friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end , And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the Heavens I bend , Praying to Christ his mercies to extend , This bloody deed do thou , Oh Lord ! forgive , And let my soul within thy kingdom live . Farewell , false world , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , a warning take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and sinful vice . And now , Oh Christ ! to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death , Pardon my faults and follies I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . GEORGE STRANGWIDGE'S Lamentation for con - senting to PAGE'S Death , for Love of ULALIA , PAGE'S Wife . THE man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe is trapped in , In doleful sort records his swanlike song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long Oh Glansfield ! cause of my committed crime , Sowed in wealth , as birds in bush of lime , What cause hadst thou to bear such spite Against my love , and take my heart's delight ? I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered thy door ; Or that thou hadst a kinder father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for her did make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take . Well mayest thou rue , with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia , more bright than the morning sun , Whose beauty hath for ever my heart wone . My soul sobs more to think of thy disgrace , Than to behold my own untimely raze . This deed late done in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd I cannot yet repent . Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death could her excuser be . It was for me , alas ! thou didst the same , On me by right thou ought to fix the blame ; My worthless love would [ s ] brought thy life to scorn , And woe is me , that ever I was born . Farewell , my love , whose loyal heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been . Farewell , my love , the pride of Plymouth-town , Farewell ; the fairest flower is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost , I know , Thy unkind father did on thee bestow . Yet afterwards kind fortune was severe , He lost his child and joy within and hour . Wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfit . And yet I cannot so my guilt excuse , We gave consent his for to abuse . Wretch that I am that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live ; Blind fancy said , This suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss or else in sorrow die . O Lord ! forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine , In justice , Lord , do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his sake . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , LONDON ill should live ; Blind fancy said , This suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss or else in sorrow die . O Lord ! forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine , In justice , Lord , do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his sake . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , LONDON 