THE DREAM OF JUDAS' MOTHER FULFILLED . Together with his sinful Life and deserved destruction . To the Tune of ----- Christ is my Love . WHO that antique story reads ; and ancient tales of old : a notable strange tragedy to you I will unfold ; of that Judas Iscariot who did our Saviour fell , and did betray him with a kiss , to haste himself to hell . which was the last but foulest fact , that he did here on earth , yet other three most damnable mine author showed hath , It's thought that Judas did descend of parents well esteem'd , but real goodness to pursue , seldom or never dream'd . but to no purpose for to go his mother sleeping lay , and dream'd that she should bear a son which should his father slay , and to his mother married be : this she her husband told , but he amaz'd did greatly muse hearing his wife unfold so strange a vision ; and he said , ( seeing his wife with child ) It's best when such a one is born to slay him when a child ; Oh but , says she , worse is to come for this was in my dream , that the Saviour of all mankind should be betray'd by him . and that a king's son he should slay ; and when all this is past , he from his God shall run away and hang himself at last . but being born , they do him lay close by a river side , Into a cradle made of segs thinking he should have died . the king had his dwelling near , the Queen having no child , quickly took up this infant young , who then was meek and mild . so him adopted for her child and sent him to the school , so soon as he could able be to walk in reason's rule . In learning arts he was brought up , and literature most fine , In wisdom and in policy , he spent his youthful time . at last the queen a child did bear ; which made her to look down on Judas , who no better knew but that he was her own . but in a while Judas began for to correct this child ; thinking that he was prince himself , but he was all beguil'd . the Queen began sharply to check Judas , who took it ill , and in furious discontentment , he does the young prince kill . to Pontius Pilate then he fled , and service did require , who seeing him a brave comely man soon granted his desire . and after that his love he gain'd but Pilate on a day , as he was riding thro' the land on his sport and his play . a gallant orchard did behold , and did on Judas call , go buy me some of yond fair fruit and send them to my hall . but being of a greedy heart , he money offer'd none , but presently at his own hand to pluck the fruit began . the orchard was his own father's though all unknown to him , and he with Judas for the fruit , to quarrel did begin . Judas being the strongest man soon forth a weapon drew , and all unknown to them both his father there he slew . his father's friend did him pursue , and sought his life to have , but quickly he to Pilate fled , and he did him receive . and with fair speeches many a one , the woman did persuade to marry Judas her own son , whom Pilate great had made . and said good woman do not refuse , my chief minion is he , he said if I should take his life , what better will you be ? better for you to marry him , then take his life away , and here I promise for to do to you what good I may . but grief to sorrowing her constrain'd for her husband now dead , but Pilate who as king then reign'd did this way her persuade . this cursed marriage being made this couple to their bed , began to talk of sundry things , which passed o'er their head . then unto him her dream she told , which struck him to the heart , when he remembered what had passed thus he did from her part . our Saviour then in Judah's land resorted up and down , preaching and working miracles in city , land , and town . our Saviour knew what was in him yet he did him receive , tho' Christ knew he would him betray yet him he credit gave . the scripture tells he kept the bag but car'd not for the poor , altho' for coin he Christ betray'd what needs progress more . his mother's dream is now fulfill'd and he hell is gone , God keep all faithful christians from being left alone , entreat the Lord that with his spirit he may direct us all , that from the favour of the Lord our souls may never fallen . keep Lord that spirit from entering mine which entered into him , and all things that we take in hand make us at God begin , one since another on does bring , thus we may clearly see ; and heretofore it hath been seen in this sad tragedy . THE DREAM OF JUDAS' MOTHER FULFILLED . Together with his sinful Life and deserved destruction . To the Tune of ----- Christ is my Love . WHO that antique story reads ; and ancient tales of old : a notable strange tragedy to you I will unfold ; of that Judas Iscariot who did our Saviour fell , and did betray him with a kiss , to haste himself to hell . which was the last but foulest fact , that he did here on earth , yet other three most damnable mine author showed hath , It's thought that Judas did descend of parents well esteem'd , but real goodness to pursue , seldom or never dream'd . but to no purpose for to go his mother sleeping lay , and dream'd that she should bear a son which should his father slay , and to his mother married be : this she her husband told , but he amaz'd did greatly muse hearing his wife unfold so strange a vision ; and he said , ( seeing his wife with child ) It's best when such a one is born to slay him when a child ; Oh but , says she , worse is to come for this was in my dream , that the Saviour of all mankind should be betray'd by him . and that a king's son he should slay ; and when all this is past , he from his God shall run away and hang himself at last . but being born , they do him lay close by a river side , Into a cradle made of segs thinking he should have died . the king had his dwelling near , the Queen having no child , quickly took up this infant young , who then was meek and mild . so him adopted for her child and sent him to the school , so soon as he could able be to walk in reason's rule . In learning arts he was brought up , and literature most fine , In wisdom and in policy , he spent his youthful time . at last the queen a child did bear ; which made her to look down on Judas , who no better knew but that he was her own . but in a while Judas began for to correct this child ; thinking that he was prince himself , but he was all beguil'd . the Queen began sharply to check Judas , who took it ill , and in furious discontentment , he does the young prince kill . to Pontius Pilate then he fled , and service did require , who seeing him a brave comely man soon granted his desire . and after that his love he gain'd but Pilate on a day , as he was riding thro' the land on his sport and his play . a gallant orchard did behold , and did on Judas call , go buy me some of yond fair fruit and send them to my hall . but being of a greedy heart , he money offer'd none , but presently at his own hand to pluck the fruit began . the orchard was his own father's though all unknown to him , and he with Judas for the fruit , to quarrel did begin . Judas being the strongest man soon forth a weapon drew , and all unknown to them both his father there he slew . his father's friend did him pursue , and sought his life to have , but quickly he to Pilate fled , and he did him receive . and with fair speeches many a one , the woman did persuade to marry Judas her own son , whom Pilate great had made . and said good woman do not refuse , my chief minion is he , he said if I should take his life , what better will you be ? better for you to marry him , then take his life away , and here I promise for to do to you what good I may . but grief to sorrowing her constrain'd for her husband now dead , but Pilate who as king then reign'd did this way her persuade . this cursed marriage being made this couple to their bed , began to talk of sundry things , which passed o'er their head . then unto him her dream she told , which struck him to the heart , when he remembered what had passed thus he did from her part . our Saviour then in Judah's land resorted up and down , preaching and working miracles in city , land , and town . our Saviour knew what was in him yet he did him receive , tho' Christ knew he would him betray yet him he credit gave . the scripture tells he kept the bag but car'd not for the poor , altho' for coin he Christ betray'd what needs progress more . his mother's dream is now fulfill'd and he hell is gone , God keep all faithful christians from being left alone , entreat the Lord that with his spirit he may direct us all , that from the favour of the Lord our souls may never fallen . keep Lord that spirit from entering mine which entered into him , and all things that we take in hand make us at God begin , one since another on does bring , thus we may clearly see ; and heretofore it hath been seen in this sad tragedy . 