The Oxfordshire Tragedy : Or , The Virgin's Advice . PART II YOung virgins fair , of beauty bright , And you that are of Cupid's fold : Unto my tragedy give ear , For 'tis as true as e'er was told . In Oxfordshire , a lady fair , The daughter of a worthy Knight , A gentleman that liv'd near , Was enamour'd of this beauty bright . Rosanna was this maiden's name , The flower of fair Oxfordshire ; This gentleman a courting came , Begging of her to be his dear , Her kind heart to love inclin'd , Young Cupid bending of his bow , And left a fatal dart behind , That prov'd her fatal overthrow . Within a pleasant grove they walk'd , And valleys where the lambs do play ; Sweet pleasant tales of love they talk'd , For to pass the long summer's day . My charming sweet rose , said he , , See how the pleasant flowers spring ; The pretty birds on every tree , With melody the groves did ring . I nothing have to please or delight My soul , but those charms of thine ; Our heart are fixed , therefore my dear , Like turtles let us both combine , Let me embrace my heart's delight Within this pleasant bower here ; This bank of violets for my bed , Shaded with those roses fair . She said , What do you mean , I pray ? I am a noble lady born . What signifies my beauty bright , When my honour it is gone ? My parents they will me disdain , And young virgins me deride , Oh do not prove my overthrow , If you love stay till I'm your bride . Sweet angel dear , I do vow , By all the powers so divine You are she whom I adore , And in love my heart confine . And if thou dost me refuse This sword must soon end my woe ; Them from her arms he straightway flew , And in his passion his sword drew . Her hands as white as lilies fair , Most dreadfully she did wring ; She said , My death's approaching near , Should I relieve and succour him It brings on my sad fallen , 'Tis I must receive the wound , The crimson die forsook her cheeks , At his feet she dropp'd on the ground . This innocent he did betray , Full soar against her chaste desire , True love is a celestial flame , But flames of lust a raging fire , But when her senses did revive . He many vows and oaths did make , That he'd for ever true remain , And her company not forsake . PART II NOW virgins to the second part , Observe this sweet creature's end , When once your virtue it is gone , You've nothing you to recommend . After our traitor had his will , He never did come near her more ; Then from her eyes both night and day , The crystal tears did pour . In the silent grove she then Did wander quite alone ; And for the creature she had lost In the said bower thus would moan . O that I was some little bird , That I might fly to hide this shame ; Oh foolish maid , thus to believe The base delusion of a man . The harmless lamb could sport and play , The turtle constant to his mate ; Nothing more wretched is then I , To buy the man that does me hate , I will to him a letter send , Remembering of the vows he made Within that shady bower , where My tender heart he first betray'd . Her trembling hands a letter wrote , My dearest dear , what must I do ; Alas ! what mischief have I done , That I am slighted so by you . I have slighted many lords of fame , Who little knows my misery , I did forsake a worthy knight , And all for the sake of thee . And now my little infant dear Will quickly spread abroad my shame . One word of comfort send to me 'Ere by thy cruelty I am slave This answer to her he did send , Your insolence amazes me , To think that I should marry one , With whom before I had been free . Indeed I'll not the father be Unto the bastard that you bear ; So take no farther thoughts of me . No more from you pray let me hear . When she this letter did receive , She rung her hands and wept fullsore , Yet every day she still would range To lament within that bower . This faithless wretch began to think , How noble were her parents dear ; She said I sure shall punish'd be When they my story come to hear , So then the devil did begin To enter in his wretched mind ; Her precious life he then must have , Then how to act the thing did find . He many times did watch her out Unto the pleasant bower , where One day he did in private go , When he knew she was not there , And privately he dug her grave Underneath and oaken tree ; Then in the branches he did hide , To act this bloody tragedy , Poor harmless soul she nothing knew , But as usual she went there ; And on a bank of violtes she In a mournful manner did fit down . Of his unkindness did complain , You gentle gods so kind , said she , Did you this grave for me prepare , He then descended from the tree . As she the grave did 'spy , She then arose to view the same : She little thought her lover there : He said , Strumpet , thy death is near . O! welcome , welcome , she reply'd , As long as by that hand I die . This is a pleasant marriagebed . I'am ready : Use your cruelty : But may the heavens bring to light This crime , and let it thus appear : Winter or summer on this grave , May this rose be the same Never to wither , tho' its cropped , But when thy hand does touch the same , Then may the bloom that moment cease , To bring thy crime to sham . More she said , but with his sword He peic'd her body thro' Then throw'd her body in thee ; silent grave Saying , Now there's end of you He filled up the grave again , With weeds the same did overspread , Then unconcern'd he strait went home , And instantly he went to be worser . Her parents were grieved sore' For the loss of their daughter dear ; Thinknig that she was stole away , Who was to their riches heir Twelve months ago this was done , There's thousands for a truth do know , Accordingly as she did desire , On her the damask rose did grow . And many wondered at the same , For all the winter it did spring : If any one did crop the rose , In a moment it would grow again . The thing was told the country o'er , And many came this sighed to see ; This miracle from heaven shown , Among the rest he must curious be . To go and see if it was true . And when unto the place he came , The beauteous rose he saw in bloom , And eagerly he cropped the same . The leaves faded from oft the bush The rose within his hand did die : He said , It is Rosanna's blood , Which springs up from her fair body . Many people that were there Took notice of what he did say : And said he had a murder done , And the truth he told without delay . They dug and found the body there , The first of June it is well known : Before a magistrate he went , And in a prison be does mourn , Till he punishment receives , No doubt but he will have his endue . Young men by this a warning take , Keep your vows whate'er you do . For God does find out many ways , Such henious crimes to bring to light ; For murder is a crying since , And hateful in his blessed sighed . Printed in Aldermary Church-yard , London . The Oxfordshire Tragedy : Or , The Virgin's Advice . PART II YOung virgins fair , of beauty bright , And you that are of Cupid's fold : Unto my tragedy give ear , For 'tis as true as e'er was told . In Oxfordshire , a lady fair , The daughter of a worthy Knight , A gentleman that liv'd near , Was enamour'd of this beauty bright . Rosanna was this maiden's name , The flower of fair Oxfordshire ; This gentleman a courting came , Begging of her to be his dear , Her kind heart to love inclin'd , Young Cupid bending of his bow , And left a fatal dart behind , That prov'd her fatal overthrow . Within a pleasant grove they walk'd , And valleys where the lambs do play ; Sweet pleasant tales of love they talk'd , For to pass the long summer's day . My charming sweet rose , said he , , See how the pleasant flowers spring ; The pretty birds on every tree , With melody the groves did ring . I nothing have to please or delight My soul , but those charms of thine ; Our heart are fixed , therefore my dear , Like turtles let us both combine , Let me embrace my heart's delight Within this pleasant bower here ; This bank of violets for my bed , Shaded with those roses fair . She said , What do you mean , I pray ? I am a noble lady born . What signifies my beauty bright , When my honour it is gone ? My parents they will me disdain , And young virgins me deride , Oh do not prove my overthrow , If you love stay till I'm your bride . Sweet angel dear , I do vow , By all the powers so divine You are she whom I adore , And in love my heart confine . And if thou dost me refuse This sword must soon end my woe ; Them from her arms he straightway flew , And in his passion his sword drew . Her hands as white as lilies fair , Most dreadfully she did wring ; She said , My death's approaching near , Should I relieve and succour him It brings on my sad fallen , 'Tis I must receive the wound , The crimson die forsook her cheeks , At his feet she dropp'd on the ground . This innocent he did betray , Full soar against her chaste desire , True love is a celestial flame , But flames of lust a raging fire , But when her senses did revive . He many vows and oaths did make , That he'd for ever true remain , And her company not forsake . PART II NOW virgins to the second part , Observe this sweet creature's end , When once your virtue it is gone , You've nothing you to recommend . After our traitor had his will , He never did come near her more ; Then from her eyes both night and day , The crystal tears did pour . In the silent grove she then Did wander quite alone ; And for the creature she had lost In the said bower thus would moan . O that I was some little bird , That I might fly to hide this shame ; Oh foolish maid , thus to believe The base delusion of a man . The harmless lamb could sport and play , The turtle constant to his mate ; Nothing more wretched is then I , To buy the man that does me hate , I will to him a letter send , Remembering of the vows he made Within that shady bower , where My tender heart he first betray'd . Her trembling hands a letter wrote , My dearest dear , what must I do ; Alas ! what mischief have I done , That I am slighted so by you . I have slighted many lords of fame , Who little knows my misery , I did forsake a worthy knight , And all for the sake of thee . And now my little infant dear Will quickly spread abroad my shame . One word of comfort send to me 'Ere by thy cruelty I am slave This answer to her he did send , Your insolence amazes me , To think that I should marry one , With whom before I had been free . Indeed I'll not the father be Unto the bastard that you bear ; So take no farther thoughts of me . No more from you pray let me hear . When she this letter did receive , She rung her hands and wept fullsore , Yet every day she still would range To lament within that bower . This faithless wretch began to think , How noble were her parents dear ; She said I sure shall punish'd be When they my story come to hear , So then the devil did begin To enter in his wretched mind ; Her precious life he then must have , Then how to act the thing did find . He many times did watch her out Unto the pleasant bower , where One day he did in private go , When he knew she was not there , And privately he dug her grave Underneath and oaken tree ; Then in the branches he did hide , To act this bloody tragedy , Poor harmless soul she nothing knew , But as usual she went there ; And on a bank of violtes she In a mournful manner did fit down . Of his unkindness did complain , You gentle gods so kind , said she , Did you this grave for me prepare , He then descended from the tree . As she the grave did 'spy , She then arose to view the same : She little thought her lover there : He said , Strumpet , thy death is near . O! welcome , welcome , she reply'd , As long as by that hand I die . This is a pleasant marriagebed . I'am ready : Use your cruelty : But may the heavens bring to light This crime , and let it thus appear : Winter or summer on this grave , May this rose be the same Never to wither , tho' its cropped , But when thy hand does touch the same , Then may the bloom that moment cease , To bring thy crime to sham . More she said , but with his sword He peic'd her body thro' Then throw'd her body in thee ; silent grave Saying , Now there's end of you He filled up the grave again , With weeds the same did overspread , Then unconcern'd he strait went home , And instantly he went to be worser . Her parents were grieved sore' For the loss of their daughter dear ; Thinknig that she was stole away , Who was to their riches heir Twelve months ago this was done , There's thousands for a truth do know , Accordingly as she did desire , On her the damask rose did grow . And many wondered at the same , For all the winter it did spring : If any one did crop the rose , In a moment it would grow again . The thing was told the country o'er , And many came this sighed to see ; This miracle from heaven shown , Among the rest he must curious be . To go and see if it was true . And when unto the place he came , The beauteous rose he saw in bloom , And eagerly he cropped the same . The leaves faded from oft the bush The rose within his hand did die : He said , It is Rosanna's blood , Which springs up from her fair body . Many people that were there Took notice of what he did say : And said he had a murder done , And the truth he told without delay . They dug and found the body there , The first of June it is well known : Before a magistrate he went , And in a prison be does mourn , Till he punishment receives , No doubt but he will have his endue . Young men by this a warning take , Keep your vows whate'er you do . For God does find out many ways , Such henious crimes to bring to light ; For murder is a crying since , And hateful in his blessed sighed . Printed in Aldermary Church-yard , London . 