Roger of the Vale . YOung Roger of the Vale , One Morning very soon , Put on his best Apparel , new Hose , and clouted shoes , And a wooing he would go , to bonny bouncing Nell . Adzooks cries he , canst fancy me , I like thy Person well . I rose up soon this Morning , it being Holiday ; I dress'd my Horses ready , and gave them Corn and Hay , And I am come a wooing , what say'st thou bonny Nell , My Dear said he , can'st fancy me , I like thy Person well . I thank thee for thy Love , the Damsel then reply'd , But I am not so hasty to be a Plowman's Bride , Because I am in Hope's to have a Farmer's Son. If it be so , quoth Hodge , I'll go , farewell , then I have done , Go take your Farmer's Son , with all my honest Heart , Altho' my Name is Roger , that goes to Blow and Cart ; I need not travel far , but I may have a Wife , There's buxom Joan , it is well known , she loves me as her Life . As he was going forth , she answer'd with a Smile , Methinks you're very crusty , come fit you down awhile , And let us have a Chat . In Truth said Hodge , not I : Think I can stay here all the Day , I have other Fish to fry . The Damsel then replied , can't I please you as well ? As Joan , who has not one Penny , and I am bonny Nell ; I have fifty Shillings just . The Money made him smile ; He pull'd his Chair , and said my Dear , I'll set me down awhile . In half and hour's Space they both a Bargain struck , Says Roger with this Money , I hope to have good Luck , For I have fifty more , with which a Cow we'll buy , Sweet buxom Nell , we shall do well , and who but you and I . Roger of the Vale . YOung Roger of the Vale , One Morning very soon , Put on his best Apparel , new Hose , and clouted shoes , And a wooing he would go , to bonny bouncing Nell . Adzooks cries he , canst fancy me , I like thy Person well . I rose up soon this Morning , it being Holiday ; I dress'd my Horses ready , and gave them Corn and Hay , And I am come a wooing , what say'st thou bonny Nell , My Dear said he , can'st fancy me , I like thy Person well . I thank thee for thy Love , the Damsel then reply'd , But I am not so hasty to be a Plowman's Bride , Because I am in Hope's to have a Farmer's Son. If it be so , quoth Hodge , I'll go , farewell , then I have done , Go take your Farmer's Son , with all my honest Heart , Altho' my Name is Roger , that goes to Blow and Cart ; I need not travel far , but I may have a Wife , There's buxom Joan , it is well known , she loves me as her Life . As he was going forth , she answer'd with a Smile , Methinks you're very crusty , come fit you down awhile , And let us have a Chat . In Truth said Hodge , not I : Think I can stay here all the Day , I have other Fish to fry . The Damsel then replied , can't I please you as well ? As Joan , who has not one Penny , and I am bonny Nell ; I have fifty Shillings just . The Money made him smile ; He pull'd his Chair , and said my Dear , I'll set me down awhile . In half and hour's Space they both a Bargain struck , Says Roger with this Money , I hope to have good Luck , For I have fifty more , with which a Cow we'll buy , Sweet buxom Nell , we shall do well , and who but you and I . 