The Seamans renown in winning his fair Lady . Brave Mariners by this you may be [ hold ] What 'tis to be a Seaman stout and bo [ ld . ] This Seaman wone a Lady by his valou [ r , ] [ And wit ] h his Sword he curb'd her Father's choler : [ There ] before go boldly on when you begin , [ And ] know Faintheart did ne're fair Lady Win. Tune of , A [ Week b ] efore Easter . THere was a bold Seaman , a ship he could steer Of such a brave Seaman you never did hear And he lov'd a Lady of beauty so clear , and now you shall hear of his wooing . Seaman . O pity fair Lady , let pity thee move , I'm deep in affection , and tossed in Love , And your are my Lady , my Turtle and Dove , on you I do set my affection . Lady . O hold your peace Seaman , for that may not be , For I am match for a higher degree , And thy blood and my blood can never agree , then Seaman take this for and answer . Seaman . O Lady your answer does make me to grieve , This true that we all come from Adam and Eve , One loving word to my Life is a reprieve , although I am in Cupids Prison . Lady . O why should you say you'r a prisoner to me , Oh hold forbear Seaman , for that may not be , We both may have matches fit for our degree . then take this for and Answer . Seaman . O no , for and answer I will it not take , Although your denial does make my heart ache , I'le rather lay down my own life at the stake , to obtain thy good favour sweet Lady . Lady . It is a mere madness thy life to lay down , For people will say there's and end of a Clown , That passed many dangers till fortune did frown , that dy'd like a Prodigal Lover . Seaman . The name of a Clown in my heart I do scorn , Being nobly descended and a Gentleman born , Yet I am a Seaman and must live forlorn , unless you can love me fair Lady . Lady . O Pardon me Seaman , for I did not know , I thought that thy parentage had been but low But I may requite thee before we do go , and give me a kiss for a favour . Seaman . He took her by the hand and he kissed her twice , Quoth he , Dearest Lady you have been too nice To valve my love at no higher a price , but now I do hope you'l requite me . Lady . Well Seaman , I see that thou hast a good heart , And art complete man in every part , If my Father know this , we should suffer smart , he would be so highly enraged . Seaman . If you are but willing for to be my Bride , My Sword and my Pistol I'll take by my side , And then to the Church in private will ride , where we will married fair Lady . She then gave consent , and away they did ride . The valiant bold Seaman , and his lovely Bride , Not fearing of anger or what might betide , their hearts were united together . Being married , they back again came speedily ; But riding along they her Father espy , Quoth he to the Seaman I vow thou shalt die , for deluding away my Dear Daughter . Come on ( quoth the Seaman ) 'tis no time to prattle , I see by your Weapons you are for the battle , With Sword and with Pistol he made him to rattle in the place were he gain'd his fair Lady . He cut him and slashed him , and there he did stand , Oh then quoth her Father , bold Seaman , thy hand , If you'l give your Daughter ten thousand in land , I'll spare you as I am a Seaman . O Seaman quoth she 'tis a portion too small , Oh peace ( quoth the Lord ) for that shall not be all , I'll give great riches what ever befall , because he's a Noble stout Seaman . They put up their Swords , and at last did agree , And strait way the Lady did fallen on her knee , And beg'd that her father would not angry be , although she had married a Seaman . Her Father unto her was there reconcil'd . And gave her his blessing as she was a child , Which made the brave Seaman glad , that he smiled when he see he had gain'd his Lords daughter . They afterwards liv'd in joy and content , The Lady had never no cause to repent , They passed their time away in merriment , and lovingly they lived together . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Seamans renown in winning his fair Lady . Brave Mariners by this you may be [ hold ] What 'tis to be a Seaman stout and bo [ ld . ] This Seaman wone a Lady by his valou [ r , ] [ And wit ] h his Sword he curb'd her Father's choler : [ There ] before go boldly on when you begin , [ And ] know Faintheart did ne're fair Lady Win. Tune of , A [ Week b ] efore Easter . THere was a bold Seaman , a ship he could steer Of such a brave Seaman you never did hear And he lov'd a Lady of beauty so clear , and now you shall hear of his wooing . Seaman . O pity fair Lady , let pity thee move , I'm deep in affection , and tossed in Love , And your are my Lady , my Turtle and Dove , on you I do set my affection . Lady . O hold your peace Seaman , for that may not be , For I am match for a higher degree , And thy blood and my blood can never agree , then Seaman take this for and answer . Seaman . O Lady your answer does make me to grieve , This true that we all come from Adam and Eve , One loving word to my Life is a reprieve , although I am in Cupids Prison . Lady . O why should you say you'r a prisoner to me , Oh hold forbear Seaman , for that may not be , We both may have matches fit for our degree . then take this for and Answer . Seaman . O no , for and answer I will it not take , Although your denial does make my heart ache , I'le rather lay down my own life at the stake , to obtain thy good favour sweet Lady . Lady . It is a mere madness thy life to lay down , For people will say there's and end of a Clown , That passed many dangers till fortune did frown , that dy'd like a Prodigal Lover . Seaman . The name of a Clown in my heart I do scorn , Being nobly descended and a Gentleman born , Yet I am a Seaman and must live forlorn , unless you can love me fair Lady . Lady . O Pardon me Seaman , for I did not know , I thought that thy parentage had been but low But I may requite thee before we do go , and give me a kiss for a favour . Seaman . He took her by the hand and he kissed her twice , Quoth he , Dearest Lady you have been too nice To valve my love at no higher a price , but now I do hope you'l requite me . Lady . Well Seaman , I see that thou hast a good heart , And art complete man in every part , If my Father know this , we should suffer smart , he would be so highly enraged . Seaman . If you are but willing for to be my Bride , My Sword and my Pistol I'll take by my side , And then to the Church in private will ride , where we will married fair Lady . She then gave consent , and away they did ride . The valiant bold Seaman , and his lovely Bride , Not fearing of anger or what might betide , their hearts were united together . Being married , they back again came speedily ; But riding along they her Father espy , Quoth he to the Seaman I vow thou shalt die , for deluding away my Dear Daughter . Come on ( quoth the Seaman ) 'tis no time to prattle , I see by your Weapons you are for the battle , With Sword and with Pistol he made him to rattle in the place were he gain'd his fair Lady . He cut him and slashed him , and there he did stand , Oh then quoth her Father , bold Seaman , thy hand , If you'l give your Daughter ten thousand in land , I'll spare you as I am a Seaman . O Seaman quoth she 'tis a portion too small , Oh peace ( quoth the Lord ) for that shall not be all , I'll give great riches what ever befall , because he's a Noble stout Seaman . They put up their Swords , and at last did agree , And strait way the Lady did fallen on her knee , And beg'd that her father would not angry be , although she had married a Seaman . Her Father unto her was there reconcil'd . And gave her his blessing as she was a child , Which made the brave Seaman glad , that he smiled when he see he had gain'd his Lords daughter . They afterwards liv'd in joy and content , The Lady had never no cause to repent , They passed their time away in merriment , and lovingly they lived together . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 