The Seamans sorrowful Bride . See here the constant mournful Bride , In sorrow does complain ; For fear her joy and hearts deligh , Should ne'r return again . To the Tune of , Ah! jenny Gin . MY Love is on the brackish Sea , and I am on this side , 'Twould break a poor young creatures heart , that lately was a Bride : That lately was a joyful Bride , so pleasant to the eye , But Hollands Land , does me withstand , and part my Love and I . The Love that I in heart have chosen , I therewith am content , The floating Sea shall dried be , before I will repen But cruel Fate my joys arrest , it cannot helped be , While I do cry , most mournfully , fate parts my Love and me . O gentle Neptune be so kind , to send him back again , He ne'r will be out of my mind , that now hath crossed the Main : O hapless Bride , so soon to lose the pleasure of thine eye , But rigid fate , my bliss does hate , and parts my Love and I . No sleep shall give my troubled mind a comfortable hour , For while my Love is on the Main , fears do my joys devour : And e'ry blast that blows , I fear , my Love should drowned lie , But 'tis a grief , beyond relief , so Love for thee i'le die . Ah! cruel Fate , too much unkind , why dost thou serve me so ? Give ease to my distressed mind , and banish all my woe : For I shall never be at rest , till I my Love do see , Then gentle wind , be sure be kind , ne'r part my Love and me . You sturdy Rocks be sure give way , and let my Love sail by , For if he should be made your Prey , in what a case were I : Or if the waves should cruel prove , which I ne'r hope to spy , I should be lost , and strangely crossed , to part my Love and I . Blow wind and send a happy Gale , that he may home return , If thou but fill his prosperous Sail I need no longer mourn : My happiness will be complete , when him I chance to see , Now I lament , in discontent , since Fate parts him and me . You powerful Stars that Mortals rule , mind but my sad complaint , And lend me home my Love again , that now am like to fain I sighs , I pant , I waste away , no pleasures can I see , Since my Delight , is out of sighed , and fate parts him and me . Now must I blame the cruel wind that sent my Love away , Oh fates , why were you so unkind , as not to let him stay : Just in the bud of all my joys , could you so cruel be , To banish hence , my Love , my Prince , and part my Love and me . Is it in vain to sighs and mourn , unhappy then am I , Or now because I am forlorn , must I in sorrow die ? No , no , I hope there's joys in store , that I may live to see , Though now oppressed , I may be blessed , Heavens bless my Love and me . The Seaman's Answer . LEave off thy tears my only joy , since I am safe arriv'd : Let not this grief my Love destroy , nor be of hope's depriv'd ; For I'le embrace thee in my Arms , and fill thee with such bliss ; That Venus with her dallying Charms , envies our happiness . Though I upon the Seas was tossed , when absent from my Dear : Fearing each moment to be lost , yet this my comfort were : That I should safe again return , which now I find is true ; And since I in Loves passion burn , I bid the Seas adieu . Now we will revel day and night , within each others Arms ; In thee shall be my chief delight , I'le shield thee from all harms ; Kindly thy body I'le embrace , and ever constant be , No other joys shall e're take place , I'le live and die with thee . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspur-street . The Seamans sorrowful Bride . See here the constant mournful Bride , In sorrow does complain ; For fear her joy and hearts deligh , Should ne'r return again . To the Tune of , Ah! jenny Gin . MY Love is on the brackish Sea , and I am on this side , 'Twould break a poor young creatures heart , that lately was a Bride : That lately was a joyful Bride , so pleasant to the eye , But Hollands Land , does me withstand , and part my Love and I . The Love that I in heart have chosen , I therewith am content , The floating Sea shall dried be , before I will repen But cruel Fate my joys arrest , it cannot helped be , While I do cry , most mournfully , fate parts my Love and me . O gentle Neptune be so kind , to send him back again , He ne'r will be out of my mind , that now hath crossed the Main : O hapless Bride , so soon to lose the pleasure of thine eye , But rigid fate , my bliss does hate , and parts my Love and I . No sleep shall give my troubled mind a comfortable hour , For while my Love is on the Main , fears do my joys devour : And e'ry blast that blows , I fear , my Love should drowned lie , But 'tis a grief , beyond relief , so Love for thee i'le die . Ah! cruel Fate , too much unkind , why dost thou serve me so ? Give ease to my distressed mind , and banish all my woe : For I shall never be at rest , till I my Love do see , Then gentle wind , be sure be kind , ne'r part my Love and me . You sturdy Rocks be sure give way , and let my Love sail by , For if he should be made your Prey , in what a case were I : Or if the waves should cruel prove , which I ne'r hope to spy , I should be lost , and strangely crossed , to part my Love and I . Blow wind and send a happy Gale , that he may home return , If thou but fill his prosperous Sail I need no longer mourn : My happiness will be complete , when him I chance to see , Now I lament , in discontent , since Fate parts him and me . You powerful Stars that Mortals rule , mind but my sad complaint , And lend me home my Love again , that now am like to fain I sighs , I pant , I waste away , no pleasures can I see , Since my Delight , is out of sighed , and fate parts him and me . Now must I blame the cruel wind that sent my Love away , Oh fates , why were you so unkind , as not to let him stay : Just in the bud of all my joys , could you so cruel be , To banish hence , my Love , my Prince , and part my Love and me . Is it in vain to sighs and mourn , unhappy then am I , Or now because I am forlorn , must I in sorrow die ? No , no , I hope there's joys in store , that I may live to see , Though now oppressed , I may be blessed , Heavens bless my Love and me . The Seaman's Answer . LEave off thy tears my only joy , since I am safe arriv'd : Let not this grief my Love destroy , nor be of hope's depriv'd ; For I'le embrace thee in my Arms , and fill thee with such bliss ; That Venus with her dallying Charms , envies our happiness . Though I upon the Seas was tossed , when absent from my Dear : Fearing each moment to be lost , yet this my comfort were : That I should safe again return , which now I find is true ; And since I in Loves passion burn , I bid the Seas adieu . Now we will revel day and night , within each others Arms ; In thee shall be my chief delight , I'le shield thee from all harms ; Kindly thy body I'le embrace , and ever constant be , No other joys shall e're take place , I'le live and die with thee . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspur-street . 