Neptune's raging Fury ; OR , THE Gallant Seaman's Sufferings . you Gentlemen of England , That live at home at ease , Little do you think upon The dangers of the seas . Give ear unto the mariners , And they will plainly show , The cares and the fears , When the stormy winds do blow . All you that will be seamen , Must bear a valiant heart , For when you come upon this seas , You must not think to start ; Nor once to be faint hearted , In hail , rain , blow , or snow , Nor to think for to shrink When the stormy winds do blow . The bitter storms and tempests Poor seamen must endure , Day and night with many a fright , We seldom rest secure . Our sleep is disturbed , With visions strange to know , And with dreams on the streams , When the stormy winds do blow . In claps of roaring thunder , Which darkness do enforce , We often find our ship to stray , Beyond our wonted course , Which causes great distractions , And sinks our hearts full low ; It is in vain to complain , When the stormy winds do blow . Sometime in Neptune's bosom , Our ships are toss'd with waves , And every man expecting The sea to be his grave , Then up aloft she mounts , And down again so low , 'Tis with waves , Oh with waves , When the stormy winds do blow . Then down again we fallen to prayer , With all our might and thought , When refuge all does fail us , 'Tis that must bear us out , To God we call for succour , For him it is we know , Must aid us , and save us , When the stormy winds do blow . The lawyer and the usurer That sits in gowns of fur , In closets warm , can take no harm , Abroad they need not stir . When winter fierce in cold do pierce , And bears with hail and snow , We are sure to endure , When the stormy winds do blow . We bring home costly merchandise , And jewels of great price , To serve our English gallantry , With many a rare device . To please the English gallantry , Our pains we freely show , For we toil , and we moil , When the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to the Indies , For to fetch home spices rare , Sometime again to France and Spain , For wines beyond compare . While gallants are carousing , In taverns on a row , Then we sweep , o'er the deep , When the stormy winds do blow . When tempests are blown over , And greatest fears are past , And when 'tis fair and temp'rate air , We strait lie down to rest . But when the billows tumble , And waves do furious grow , Then we rouse up , we rouse up , When the stormy winds do blow . If enemies oppose us , When Engladd is at wars With any foreign nation , We fear no wounds nor scars ; Our roaring guns shall teach them , Our valour for to know , While they reel in the keel , When the stormy winds do blow . We are no cowardly shrinkers , But Englishmen true bred , We play our parts with bold hearts , And never fly for dread . We'll ply our business nimbly , Where'er we come or go , And our mates to the straights , When the stormy winds do blow . Then courage all brave mariners , And never be dismay'd , Since we have bold adventurers , We never shall want trade . Our merchant's will employ us , To fetch them wealth we know : Then be bold , work for gold , When the stormy winds do blow . Then we return in safety , With wages for our pains , The tapster and the vintner Do help to share our gains . We'll call for liquour roundly , And pay before we go ; And we'll roar on the shore , When the stormy winds do blow . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , Bow Church-Yard , London . Neptune's raging Fury ; OR , THE Gallant Seaman's Sufferings . you Gentlemen of England , That live at home at ease , Little do you think upon The dangers of the seas . Give ear unto the mariners , And they will plainly show , The cares and the fears , When the stormy winds do blow . All you that will be seamen , Must bear a valiant heart , For when you come upon this seas , You must not think to start ; Nor once to be faint hearted , In hail , rain , blow , or snow , Nor to think for to shrink When the stormy winds do blow . The bitter storms and tempests Poor seamen must endure , Day and night with many a fright , We seldom rest secure . Our sleep is disturbed , With visions strange to know , And with dreams on the streams , When the stormy winds do blow . In claps of roaring thunder , Which darkness do enforce , We often find our ship to stray , Beyond our wonted course , Which causes great distractions , And sinks our hearts full low ; It is in vain to complain , When the stormy winds do blow . Sometime in Neptune's bosom , Our ships are toss'd with waves , And every man expecting The sea to be his grave , Then up aloft she mounts , And down again so low , 'Tis with waves , Oh with waves , When the stormy winds do blow . Then down again we fallen to prayer , With all our might and thought , When refuge all does fail us , 'Tis that must bear us out , To God we call for succour , For him it is we know , Must aid us , and save us , When the stormy winds do blow . The lawyer and the usurer That sits in gowns of fur , In closets warm , can take no harm , Abroad they need not stir . When winter fierce in cold do pierce , And bears with hail and snow , We are sure to endure , When the stormy winds do blow . We bring home costly merchandise , And jewels of great price , To serve our English gallantry , With many a rare device . To please the English gallantry , Our pains we freely show , For we toil , and we moil , When the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to the Indies , For to fetch home spices rare , Sometime again to France and Spain , For wines beyond compare . While gallants are carousing , In taverns on a row , Then we sweep , o'er the deep , When the stormy winds do blow . When tempests are blown over , And greatest fears are past , And when 'tis fair and temp'rate air , We strait lie down to rest . But when the billows tumble , And waves do furious grow , Then we rouse up , we rouse up , When the stormy winds do blow . If enemies oppose us , When Engladd is at wars With any foreign nation , We fear no wounds nor scars ; Our roaring guns shall teach them , Our valour for to know , While they reel in the keel , When the stormy winds do blow . We are no cowardly shrinkers , But Englishmen true bred , We play our parts with bold hearts , And never fly for dread . We'll ply our business nimbly , Where'er we come or go , And our mates to the straights , When the stormy winds do blow . Then courage all brave mariners , And never be dismay'd , Since we have bold adventurers , We never shall want trade . Our merchant's will employ us , To fetch them wealth we know : Then be bold , work for gold , When the stormy winds do blow . Then we return in safety , With wages for our pains , The tapster and the vintner Do help to share our gains . We'll call for liquour roundly , And pay before we go ; And we'll roar on the shore , When the stormy winds do blow . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , Bow Church-Yard , London . 