A New Fox-hunting SONG , Composed by W.S. KENRICK , and J. BURTELL . The Chase run by the Cleveland Fox Hounds on Saturday the 29th Day of January , 1785. you hardy sons of Chase give ear , All listen to my Song ; 'Tis of a Hunt perform'd this Year , That will be talk'd of long . When a hunting we do go , oho , oho oho , And a hunting we will go , oho , oho , oho , And a hunting we will go , oho , oho , oho , with the Huntsman Tally , ho . On Weary Bank you know the same , Unkenell'd was the Fox ; Who led us , and our Hounds of Fame , O'er Mountains , Moors and Rocks . When a Hunting we do go , etc 'Twas Craythorn first swift Reynard made , To Limton then did fly : Full speed pursu'd each hearty blade , And join'd in jovial cry , with the Huntsman Tally ho . To Worsal next he took his flight , Escape us he wou'd fain ; To Picton next with all his might , To Craythorn back again , With the Huntsman Tally ho . To Weary Bank then takes his course , Thro' Fanny Bell's gill flies ; In Seymour Car strains all his force , His utmost vigour tries , with the Huntsman Tally ho . To Tanton , Nunthorp , next he flies , O'er Langbrough Rig goes he ; He scours like Light'ning o'er the meads , More swift Fox could not be , Nor with a Hunstman better match'd , etc To Newton , then to Roseberry , To Hutton Lockerass gill ; To Lownsdale , o'er Court Moor go we , From thence to Kildale Mill , With the Huntsman Tally ho , etc By this our Zeal was not subdu'd , All crosses were in vain ; To Kildale Reynard we pursu'd , To Lownsdale back again , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc By Percy Cross and Sleddale too , And Pilly Rig full fast , As Fox could run to Skyldershew , And Lockwood Beck he passed , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc By Freebrough Hill he takes his way , By Danby Lodge also ; With ardour we pursue our prey , As swift as Hounds could go , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc By Coal Pits and o'er Stonegate Moor , To Scayling Reynard ran ; Was such a Fox e'er seen before ? His equal show who can ! when a Hunting we do go , etc To Barnby now by Ugthorp Mill , And Mickleby likewise ; To Ellerby , to Hinderwell , Still stubborn Reynard flies , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc The Huntsman now with other three , * And Reynard you'll suppose ; Ten couple of Hounds of high degree , One field now did enclose , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc But now our Chase draws near and end , No longer we'll intrude ; For on the Cliff , rejoice my Friend , Swift Reynard there we view'd , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc Sure such a Chase must wonder raise , And had I time to sing , The Huntsman's deeds who merits praise , Would make the Valleys ring , when a Hunting we did go , etc Come sportsmen all your Glasses fill , And let the toast go round ; May each Foxhunter flourish still , In Health and Strength abound , when a Hunting we did go , etc FINIS . * Thomas Coal , Huntsman , Rev. George Davison , Christopher Rowntree , junr . William Stockdale . A New Fox-hunting SONG , Composed by W.S. KENRICK , and J. BURTELL . The Chase run by the Cleveland Fox Hounds on Saturday the 29th Day of January , 1785. you hardy sons of Chase give ear , All listen to my Song ; 'Tis of a Hunt perform'd this Year , That will be talk'd of long . When a hunting we do go , oho , oho oho , And a hunting we will go , oho , oho , oho , And a hunting we will go , oho , oho , oho , with the Huntsman Tally , ho . On Weary Bank you know the same , Unkenell'd was the Fox ; Who led us , and our Hounds of Fame , O'er Mountains , Moors and Rocks . When a Hunting we do go , etc 'Twas Craythorn first swift Reynard made , To Limton then did fly : Full speed pursu'd each hearty blade , And join'd in jovial cry , with the Huntsman Tally ho . To Worsal next he took his flight , Escape us he wou'd fain ; To Picton next with all his might , To Craythorn back again , With the Huntsman Tally ho . To Weary Bank then takes his course , Thro' Fanny Bell's gill flies ; In Seymour Car strains all his force , His utmost vigour tries , with the Huntsman Tally ho . To Tanton , Nunthorp , next he flies , O'er Langbrough Rig goes he ; He scours like Light'ning o'er the meads , More swift Fox could not be , Nor with a Hunstman better match'd , etc To Newton , then to Roseberry , To Hutton Lockerass gill ; To Lownsdale , o'er Court Moor go we , From thence to Kildale Mill , With the Huntsman Tally ho , etc By this our Zeal was not subdu'd , All crosses were in vain ; To Kildale Reynard we pursu'd , To Lownsdale back again , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc By Percy Cross and Sleddale too , And Pilly Rig full fast , As Fox could run to Skyldershew , And Lockwood Beck he passed , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc By Freebrough Hill he takes his way , By Danby Lodge also ; With ardour we pursue our prey , As swift as Hounds could go , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc By Coal Pits and o'er Stonegate Moor , To Scayling Reynard ran ; Was such a Fox e'er seen before ? His equal show who can ! when a Hunting we do go , etc To Barnby now by Ugthorp Mill , And Mickleby likewise ; To Ellerby , to Hinderwell , Still stubborn Reynard flies , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc The Huntsman now with other three , * And Reynard you'll suppose ; Ten couple of Hounds of high degree , One field now did enclose , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc But now our Chase draws near and end , No longer we'll intrude ; For on the Cliff , rejoice my Friend , Swift Reynard there we view'd , with the Huntsman Tally ho , etc Sure such a Chase must wonder raise , And had I time to sing , The Huntsman's deeds who merits praise , Would make the Valleys ring , when a Hunting we did go , etc Come sportsmen all your Glasses fill , And let the toast go round ; May each Foxhunter flourish still , In Health and Strength abound , when a Hunting we did go , etc FINIS . * Thomas Coal , Huntsman , Rev. George Davison , Christopher Rowntree , junr . William Stockdale . 