The BERKSHIRE Tragedy , OR THE WITTAM MILLER , With and Account of his Murdering his Sweetheart . YOUNG men and maidens all give ear , Unto what I shall now relate ; Oh mark you well , and you shall hear , Of my unhappy fate : Near unto famous Oxford town , I first did draw my breath , Oh! that I had been cast away , In and un [ tO ] imely birth . My tender parents brought me up , Provided for me well . And in the town of Wit [ a ] m then , They plac'd me in a mill . By chance upon and Oxford lass , I cast a wanton eye , And promis'd I would marry her , If she would with me lie But to the world I do declare , With sorrow , grief and woe , This folly brought us in a snare , And wrought our overthrow . For the damsel came to me , and said , By you I am with child : I hope , dear John , you'll marry me , For you have me defil'd . Soon after that , her mother came , As you shall understand , And oftentimes did me persuade , To wed her out of hand . And thus perplex'd on every side , I could no comfort find , So for to make away with her , A thought came in my mind . About a month from Christmas then , Oh! cursed be the day , The devil then did me persuade , To take her life away . I call'd her from her sister's door , At eight o'clock at night , Poor creature she did little dream , I ow'd her any spite . I told her , if she'd walk with me , A side a little way , We both together would agree , About our wedding day . Thus I deluded her again , Into a private place , Then took a stick out of the hedge , And struck her in the face . But she fell on her bent knee , And did for mercy cry , For heaven sake don't murder me , I am not fit to die . But I on her no pity took , But wounded her full soar , Until her Life away I took , Which I can ne'er restore . With many grievous shrieks and cries , She did resign her breath , And in inhuman barbarous sort , I put my love to death . And then I took her by the hair , To cover this foul since , And dragg'd her to the river side , And threw her Body in . Thus in the blood of innocence , My hands were deeply dy'd , And shined in her purple gore , That should have been my bride . Then home unto my mill I ran , But sorely was amaz'd , My man he thought I had mischief done , And strangely on me gaz'd . Oh! what's the matter then said he , You look as pale as death , What makes you shake and tremble so , As though you had lost your breath . How came you by that blood upon , Your trembling hands and clothes ? I presently to him reply'd , By bleeding at the nose . I wishfully upon him look'd , But little to him said , But snatch'd the candle from his hand , And went unto my bed . Where I lay trembling all the night , For I could take no rest , And perfect flames of hell did flash , Within my guilty face . Next day the damsel being miss'd , And no where to be found ; Then I was apprehended soon , And to the Assizes bound . Her sister did against me swear , She reason had no doubt , That I had made away with her , Because I call'd her out . But Satan did me still persuade , I stiffly should deny , Quoth he , there is no witness can , Against thee testif [ y ] . Now when her mother she did cry , I scoffingly did say , On purpose then to frighten me , She sent her child away . I publish'd in the post boy then , My wickedness to blind , Five Guineas any one should have , That could her body find . But Heaven had a watchful eye , And brought it so about , That though I stiffly did deny , This murder would come out . The very day before the assize , Her body it was found , Floating before her Father's door , At Henly Ferry Town . So I the second time was seiz'd , To Oxford brought with speed , And there examined again , About the bloody deed . Now the coroner and jury both , Together did agree , That this damsel was made away , And murdered by me . The justice he perceiv'd the guilt , No longer would take bail : But the next morning I was sent , Away to Reading Goal . When I was brought before the judge , My man did testify , That blood upon my hands and clothes , That night he did espy . The judge he told the jury then , The circumstance is plain , Look on the prisoner at the bar , He hath this creature slave . About the murder at the first , The jury did divide , But when they brought their verdict , All of them guilty cry'd . The jailor took and bound me strait , As soon as I was cast ; And then within the prison strong , He there did lay me fast . With fetters strong then I was bound , And shin bolted was I , Yet I the murder would not own , But still did it deny . My father did on me prevail , My kindred all likewise , To own the murder which I did , To them with watery eyes . My father he then did me blame , Saying , my son , o ! why , Have you thus brought yourself to shame , And all your family ; Father , I own the crime I did , I guilty am indeed , Which cruel fact I now confess , Does make my heart to bleed . The worst of death's I do deserve , My crime it is so base , For I , no mercy shew'd to her , Most wretched is my case . Lord grant me grace while I do stay , That I may now repent , Before I from this wicked world , Most shamefully am sent . Young men take warning by my fallen , All filthy lust defy ; By giving way to wickedness , Alas ! this day I die . Lord wash my hateful Sins away , Which have been manifold , Have mercy on me I thee pray , And Christ receive my soul . London : Printed and Sold at Sympson's Printing Office , in Stonecutter-street , Fleet Market . The BERKSHIRE Tragedy , OR THE WITTAM MILLER , With and Account of his Murdering his Sweetheart . YOUNG men and maidens all give ear , Unto what I shall now relate ; Oh mark you well , and you shall hear , Of my unhappy fate : Near unto famous Oxford town , I first did draw my breath , Oh! that I had been cast away , In and un [ tO ] imely birth . My tender parents brought me up , Provided for me well . And in the town of Wit [ a ] m then , They plac'd me in a mill . By chance upon and Oxford lass , I cast a wanton eye , And promis'd I would marry her , If she would with me lie But to the world I do declare , With sorrow , grief and woe , This folly brought us in a snare , And wrought our overthrow . For the damsel came to me , and said , By you I am with child : I hope , dear John , you'll marry me , For you have me defil'd . Soon after that , her mother came , As you shall understand , And oftentimes did me persuade , To wed her out of hand . And thus perplex'd on every side , I could no comfort find , So for to make away with her , A thought came in my mind . About a month from Christmas then , Oh! cursed be the day , The devil then did me persuade , To take her life away . I call'd her from her sister's door , At eight o'clock at night , Poor creature she did little dream , I ow'd her any spite . I told her , if she'd walk with me , A side a little way , We both together would agree , About our wedding day . Thus I deluded her again , Into a private place , Then took a stick out of the hedge , And struck her in the face . But she fell on her bent knee , And did for mercy cry , For heaven sake don't murder me , I am not fit to die . But I on her no pity took , But wounded her full soar , Until her Life away I took , Which I can ne'er restore . With many grievous shrieks and cries , She did resign her breath , And in inhuman barbarous sort , I put my love to death . And then I took her by the hair , To cover this foul since , And dragg'd her to the river side , And threw her Body in . Thus in the blood of innocence , My hands were deeply dy'd , And shined in her purple gore , That should have been my bride . Then home unto my mill I ran , But sorely was amaz'd , My man he thought I had mischief done , And strangely on me gaz'd . Oh! what's the matter then said he , You look as pale as death , What makes you shake and tremble so , As though you had lost your breath . How came you by that blood upon , Your trembling hands and clothes ? I presently to him reply'd , By bleeding at the nose . I wishfully upon him look'd , But little to him said , But snatch'd the candle from his hand , And went unto my bed . Where I lay trembling all the night , For I could take no rest , And perfect flames of hell did flash , Within my guilty face . Next day the damsel being miss'd , And no where to be found ; Then I was apprehended soon , And to the Assizes bound . Her sister did against me swear , She reason had no doubt , That I had made away with her , Because I call'd her out . But Satan did me still persuade , I stiffly should deny , Quoth he , there is no witness can , Against thee testif [ y ] . Now when her mother she did cry , I scoffingly did say , On purpose then to frighten me , She sent her child away . I publish'd in the post boy then , My wickedness to blind , Five Guineas any one should have , That could her body find . But Heaven had a watchful eye , And brought it so about , That though I stiffly did deny , This murder would come out . The very day before the assize , Her body it was found , Floating before her Father's door , At Henly Ferry Town . So I the second time was seiz'd , To Oxford brought with speed , And there examined again , About the bloody deed . Now the coroner and jury both , Together did agree , That this damsel was made away , And murdered by me . The justice he perceiv'd the guilt , No longer would take bail : But the next morning I was sent , Away to Reading Goal . When I was brought before the judge , My man did testify , That blood upon my hands and clothes , That night he did espy . The judge he told the jury then , The circumstance is plain , Look on the prisoner at the bar , He hath this creature slave . About the murder at the first , The jury did divide , But when they brought their verdict , All of them guilty cry'd . The jailor took and bound me strait , As soon as I was cast ; And then within the prison strong , He there did lay me fast . With fetters strong then I was bound , And shin bolted was I , Yet I the murder would not own , But still did it deny . My father did on me prevail , My kindred all likewise , To own the murder which I did , To them with watery eyes . My father he then did me blame , Saying , my son , o ! why , Have you thus brought yourself to shame , And all your family ; Father , I own the crime I did , I guilty am indeed , Which cruel fact I now confess , Does make my heart to bleed . The worst of death's I do deserve , My crime it is so base , For I , no mercy shew'd to her , Most wretched is my case . Lord grant me grace while I do stay , That I may now repent , Before I from this wicked world , Most shamefully am sent . Young men take warning by my fallen , All filthy lust defy ; By giving way to wickedness , Alas ! this day I die . Lord wash my hateful Sins away , Which have been manifold , Have mercy on me I thee pray , And Christ receive my soul . London : Printed and Sold at Sympson's Printing Office , in Stonecutter-street , Fleet Market . 