The STRAND Garland . In FOUR PARTS . PART I . YOU young men and maidens that to love belong , Come draw near , and listen awhile to my song , And I make no question but this ditty Must please many persons both in town and city . It is of a nobleman that I do write , No less than a duke , at the playhouse one night , A charming fair creature he happen'd to 'spy . Who much like and angel appear'd in his eye . He went for diversion to pleasure his mind , That he was so smitten , and Cupid we find Was the chief actor , and such antics play'd , That this noble person unto his man said . Follow this fair lady wherever she does go , And where she houses come and let me know ; And upon my honour tomorrow I'll see Whose daughter she is , and if my bride she'll be . The play being over , away went the man , And found that this lady liv'd in the Strand ; Then strait to his master he went , and did tell , Where she did live , which pleased him well . With his coach and six , and attendants next day , Unto this here house he rattled away ; And found 'twas a draper , there I protest , Who gaz'd at the star that appear'd on his breast . The duke said , Old father , tell unto me , How many you have in your family ; The draper reply'd , a kind loving wife , A maid , and a daughter I love as my life . The duke said , Last night I saw at the play , A creature , whose beauty my eyes did betray ; I'm told 'tis your daughter , whose beauty so shin'd , Now let me see her , sir , pray be so kind . She came to his presence . When he saw her face , With these kind words he did her embrace : Fair lady , Your beauty so charms me , Without your consent unhappy I be . Like a modest creature to blush she was seen , And made him this answer , My birth is too mean For your noble person ; I must be content With some meaner fortune . Then away she went . He said to her father , I am apt to think Tradesmen are so taxed that you may want chink ; I look for no fortune , if she can love me , A lady of honour she quickly shall be . Her father said , Gain her love , as I live Ten thousand pounds with her I will give . He said , Never fear but her love I can gain , Then adieu , my father , 'till I come again . The duke being gone , her father did say , To bring you to honour , dear , this is the way ; This man is a person of honour and fame , And if you refuse him , you are much to blame . She said , Loving father , I needs must tell you , This is a hard thing you request me to do : And as she spoke , her eyes did overflow , The cause of her weeping you soon shall know . At last with much courting , and presents beside , Persuading , she promised to be his bride ; And great preparations were made for the day , But there was a stumbling block in the way . PART II THey went to the church the marriage to embrace , But as they were marrying conscience in her face Flew in such a manner , that strait on the ground This beautiful damsel dropped into a swoon . This caused confusion , at last we hear , She fetch'd a sighs , and some sense did appear ; Then up she was raised the knot for to tie , But she dropped again , and said she should die . The minister said , this is some private thing , This maid hath acted , her conscience does sting ; Surely she is engaged to some other man , Or else for the honour of marriage she'd stand . She fetch'd a deep sighs , saying , What shall I do ? The minister then took her into a pew ; And then did ask her what made her grieve : With tears in her eyes and account she did give . Unto my father's 'prentice wedded I be , And for that reason conscience won't let me Be wedded to another , since I am with-child . In being so hasty my fortune is spoil'd . The duke said , By me you have done very ill , To hold me so long . Thy husband I'll kill : He soon might have ended this terrible strife , By saying , Desist , she is my wedded wife , Then in a great passion away he did go , Unto her father , with sorrow and woe . In tears she returned , and when she came in . Her mother to check her thus did begin : Oh fie on you daughter ! why did you thus run So into destruction , now you are undone ; In being so hasty for to be a wife , You surely are ruin'd all the days of your life . The father said , Strumpet , pray hear what I say , Had you been prudent this selfsame day You had been a lady to a noble peer , Now instead of honour poverty is here . One farthing of portion , as I am a man , I never will give you , so shift as you can ; For this private thing I will never own thee more , So to her grief she was turn'd out of door . PART III . THEN instead of pleasure and mirth that day , Vexation and sorrow boar all the sway ; The duke he was vexed , and her parents dear , Instead of good wine drank many a tear . For making his daughter his wedded wife , For his part the 'prentice does led a sad life ; He could not be at quiet ; so for to have ease , In the Royal Sovereign he went on the seas . She had a rich uncle that liv'd in Pall-Mall . Her griefs and sorrows to him she did tell : Saying , Loving uncle , do entertain me , 'Till my angry parents reconciled be . He said , To entertain thee , that will not I ; As you have made your bed , so in it you may lie ; For those that cross parents with love are not blessed . So out she was turn'd , then her sorrows encreas'd . Her grief was searching and inwardly great , Her child lay panting and daily did beatrice ; When the time was expired , she had a young son , And when deliver'd her sorrows begun . In time of her weakness this woman indeed , Herself and poor innocent babe then to feed , A very rich locket , and a watch of gold , Six rings , and some trinkets she had then sold . Threescore and two guineas she had for the things , 'Tis and old saying that Riches have Wings . Threescore of the guineas the nurse away took And while she lay sleeping she her forsook . Being now among stranger [ s ] and small substance left , She said , Of all comforts and joy I'm bereft ; Never did young flower meet with such a blast ; I'm cropped in my bud and my pleasures are passed . In pleasing my fancy , when I chosen to wed , A world of sorrows I've brought upon my head , Were my parents tender , and loving indeed , They would have pity and ease me with speed . I thought no offence , to my parents , or God , When I chosen my flower , but I find the rod Of the Great Almighty is soar upon me ; Alas ! my dear infant , we starved shall be . As she sat lamenting : In the shape of a man The Devil appear'd , as some witness can , And said , thy great sorrow we very well know , 'Tis thro' unkind parents that you suffer so . I came from thy father , he sent me to thee , I tell thee he never will reconcil'd be ; Thus instead of better the case must be worse , And such unkind parents I'd have thee to curse . A blot in their 'scutcheons I'd have thee to make , The trade of a town miss I'd have thee to take ; Your beauty is tempting , and if thou can'st crack , Good fellows and guineas thou need'st not to lack . There's none lives a life like a miss of the town Like ladies in pleasure they walk up and down : At the school of Venus they take their degree , Which would become such a beauty as thee . To led such a life , and to suffer the while , Is a piece of nonsense ; and as for the child , Which may hinder pleasure , the brat you may kill And then for diversion take pleasure at will . To hear this bad council she jealous did grow , She guess'd him no man , and she found it so ; She said , Thou deceiver , thy words I defy . E're I will turn harlot I'll instantly die . Tho' it is my hard fortune thus to be poor , I'll not kill the child , nor will I turn whore ; 'Tis best to be honest , tho' poor here on earth , Than wicked in place , and burn after death . Like a roaring lion you seek day and hour , Mankind to hurt , and them to devour ; Then with the infant she fell down to pray , Which made the deceiver to vanish away . When he was gone , she said , Hard fate's on me And seeing my parents thus hardhearted be ; Unto a foreign country away I will go , As they of my lamentable end may not know . PART IV. SHE went to the change , and herself did fell , Unto a captain who knew her father well ; And when he had bought her , this captain indeed Did send for her father , who came with speed , And seeing his face she fell on her knees , And said , Dear honoured sir , if you please To give me your blessing , it is all I crave ; I'm The STRAND Garland . In FOUR PARTS . PART I . YOU young men and maidens that to love belong , Come draw near , and listen awhile to my song , And I make no question but this ditty Must please many persons both in town and city . It is of a nobleman that I do write , No less than a duke , at the playhouse one night , A charming fair creature he happen'd to 'spy . Who much like and angel appear'd in his eye . He went for diversion to pleasure his mind , That he was so smitten , and Cupid we find Was the chief actor , and such antics play'd , That this noble person unto his man said . Follow this fair lady wherever she does go , And where she houses come and let me know ; And upon my honour tomorrow I'll see Whose daughter she is , and if my bride she'll be . The play being over , away went the man , And found that this lady liv'd in the Strand ; Then strait to his master he went , and did tell , Where she did live , which pleased him well . With his coach and six , and attendants next day , Unto this here house he rattled away ; And found 'twas a draper , there I protest , Who gaz'd at the star that appear'd on his breast . The duke said , Old father , tell unto me , How many you have in your family ; The draper reply'd , a kind loving wife , A maid , and a daughter I love as my life . The duke said , Last night I saw at the play , A creature , whose beauty my eyes did betray ; I'm told 'tis your daughter , whose beauty so shin'd , Now let me see her , sir , pray be so kind . She came to his presence . When he saw her face , With these kind words he did her embrace : Fair lady , Your beauty so charms me , Without your consent unhappy I be . Like a modest creature to blush she was seen , And made him this answer , My birth is too mean For your noble person ; I must be content With some meaner fortune . Then away she went . He said to her father , I am apt to think Tradesmen are so taxed that you may want chink ; I look for no fortune , if she can love me , A lady of honour she quickly shall be . Her father said , Gain her love , as I live Ten thousand pounds with her I will give . He said , Never fear but her love I can gain , Then adieu , my father , 'till I come again . The duke being gone , her father did say , To bring you to honour , dear , this is the way ; This man is a person of honour and fame , And if you refuse him , you are much to blame . She said , Loving father , I needs must tell you , This is a hard thing you request me to do : And as she spoke , her eyes did overflow , The cause of her weeping you soon shall know . At last with much courting , and presents beside , Persuading , she promised to be his bride ; And great preparations were made for the day , But there was a stumbling block in the way . PART II THey went to the church the marriage to embrace , But as they were marrying conscience in her face Flew in such a manner , that strait on the ground This beautiful damsel dropped into a swoon . This caused confusion , at last we hear , She fetch'd a sighs , and some sense did appear ; Then up she was raised the knot for to tie , But she dropped again , and said she should die . The minister said , this is some private thing , This maid hath acted , her conscience does sting ; Surely she is engaged to some other man , Or else for the honour of marriage she'd stand . She fetch'd a deep sighs , saying , What shall I do ? The minister then took her into a pew ; And then did ask her what made her grieve : With tears in her eyes and account she did give . Unto my father's 'prentice wedded I be , And for that reason conscience won't let me Be wedded to another , since I am with-child . In being so hasty my fortune is spoil'd . The duke said , By me you have done very ill , To hold me so long . Thy husband I'll kill : He soon might have ended this terrible strife , By saying , Desist , she is my wedded wife , Then in a great passion away he did go , Unto her father , with sorrow and woe . In tears she returned , and when she came in . Her mother to check her thus did begin : Oh fie on you daughter ! why did you thus run So into destruction , now you are undone ; In being so hasty for to be a wife , You surely are ruin'd all the days of your life . The father said , Strumpet , pray hear what I say , Had you been prudent this selfsame day You had been a lady to a noble peer , Now instead of honour poverty is here . One farthing of portion , as I am a man , I never will give you , so shift as you can ; For this private thing I will never own thee more , So to her grief she was turn'd out of door . PART III . THEN instead of pleasure and mirth that day , Vexation and sorrow boar all the sway ; The duke he was vexed , and her parents dear , Instead of good wine drank many a tear . For making his daughter his wedded wife , For his part the 'prentice does led a sad life ; He could not be at quiet ; so for to have ease , In the Royal Sovereign he went on the seas . She had a rich uncle that liv'd in Pall-Mall . Her griefs and sorrows to him she did tell : Saying , Loving uncle , do entertain me , 'Till my angry parents reconciled be . He said , To entertain thee , that will not I ; As you have made your bed , so in it you may lie ; For those that cross parents with love are not blessed . So out she was turn'd , then her sorrows encreas'd . Her grief was searching and inwardly great , Her child lay panting and daily did beatrice ; When the time was expired , she had a young son , And when deliver'd her sorrows begun . In time of her weakness this woman indeed , Herself and poor innocent babe then to feed , A very rich locket , and a watch of gold , Six rings , and some trinkets she had then sold . Threescore and two guineas she had for the things , 'Tis and old saying that Riches have Wings . Threescore of the guineas the nurse away took And while she lay sleeping she her forsook . Being now among stranger [ s ] and small substance left , She said , Of all comforts and joy I'm bereft ; Never did young flower meet with such a blast ; I'm cropped in my bud and my pleasures are passed . In pleasing my fancy , when I chosen to wed , A world of sorrows I've brought upon my head , Were my parents tender , and loving indeed , They would have pity and ease me with speed . I thought no offence , to my parents , or God , When I chosen my flower , but I find the rod Of the Great Almighty is soar upon me ; Alas ! my dear infant , we starved shall be . As she sat lamenting : In the shape of a man The Devil appear'd , as some witness can , And said , thy great sorrow we very well know , 'Tis thro' unkind parents that you suffer so . I came from thy father , he sent me to thee , I tell thee he never will reconcil'd be ; Thus instead of better the case must be worse , And such unkind parents I'd have thee to curse . A blot in their 'scutcheons I'd have thee to make , The trade of a town miss I'd have thee to take ; Your beauty is tempting , and if thou can'st crack , Good fellows and guineas thou need'st not to lack . There's none lives a life like a miss of the town Like ladies in pleasure they walk up and down : At the school of Venus they take their degree , Which would become such a beauty as thee . To led such a life , and to suffer the while , Is a piece of nonsense ; and as for the child , Which may hinder pleasure , the brat you may kill And then for diversion take pleasure at will . To hear this bad council she jealous did grow , She guess'd him no man , and she found it so ; She said , Thou deceiver , thy words I defy . E're I will turn harlot I'll instantly die . Tho' it is my hard fortune thus to be poor , I'll not kill the child , nor will I turn whore ; 'Tis best to be honest , tho' poor here on earth , Than wicked in place , and burn after death . Like a roaring lion you seek day and hour , Mankind to hurt , and them to devour ; Then with the infant she fell down to pray , Which made the deceiver to vanish away . When he was gone , she said , Hard fate's on me And seeing my parents thus hardhearted be ; Unto a foreign country away I will go , As they of my lamentable end may not know . PART IV. SHE went to the change , and herself did fell , Unto a captain who knew her father well ; And when he had bought her , this captain indeed Did send for her father , who came with speed , And seeing his face she fell on her knees , And said , Dear honoured sir , if you please To give me your blessing , it is all I crave ; I'm sold to the captain , and am going his slave . This made his old eyes with tears to flow , He said unto her , I hope it's not so : It ne'er shall be said , Thy father's cruelty , Did prove his child's ruin , thou shalt go with me . One night thy mother was haunted with dream And thought she saw thee floating on the thames ; And where to find thee none of us could tell : Come hither to me , and all shall be well . Being thus invited , she home did retire , When her mother saw her , she said , my desire I have obtained . Then with a smile She did embrace her , and likewise the child . The mother said , Daughter , you look most sad Where is the locket and jewels you had ? A true account of her griefs they took , And having herd at both their heads shook . For staying away they both did her check , And put a gold locket about her neck ; Rich rings on her fingers , and a watch by her side , Now she that was banish'd does with parents abide For her sake young people may well be content In that thing call'd marriage , when friends content Such things done in private may great honour blast And instea doe f joy bring destruction at last . sold to the captain , and am going his slave . This made his old eyes with tears to flow , He said unto her , I hope it's not so : It ne'er shall be said , Thy father's cruelty , Did prove his child's ruin , thou shalt go with me . One night thy mother was haunted with dream And thought she saw thee floating on the thames ; And where to find thee none of us could tell : Come hither to me , and all shall be well . Being thus invited , she home did retire , When her mother saw her , she said , my desire I have obtained . Then with a smile She did embrace her , and likewise the child . The mother said , Daughter , you look most sad Where is the locket and jewels you had ? A true account of her griefs they took , And having herd at both their heads shook . For staying away they both did her check , And put a gold locket about her neck ; Rich rings on her fingers , and a watch by her side , Now she that was banish'd does with parents abide For her sake young people may well be content In that thing call'd marriage , when friends content Such things done in private may great honour blast And instea doe f joy bring destruction at last . 