THE GUERNSEY Garland . PART I . YOU Mortals all that deal unjust , Who use yourselves to filthy Lust , Be pleas'd a while for to draw near , And listen to this ditty here . Which of a Nobleman I write , Who had a comely daughter bright , Aged fifteen , a comely Child , Who by her father was beguil'd . Her tender mother being dead , She by her father was tempted , With him to lie , and in so doing , At last is prov'd her utter Ruin . At last she prov'd with-child , and low , On finding of it out , she cried Oh Father I am with-child by you , Alas , alas , what shall I do ? If it is known I am with-child , My fortune is for ever spoil'd , Alas , alas , I am undone , To hide my shame where shall I run . Daughter , be not dissatisfy'd , I will take care thy shame to hide : In Guernsey there I have a friend , To whom with speed I will thee send . And if the child should chance to live , Full forty pounds a year I'll give , To some who shall it own , he said , Hence to the Isle she was convey'd . In sorrow there in a short while , She was delivered of a child ; This baby was a son we hear , Upon whose breast did plain appear These words at large , in letters blue , I am thy Son and Brother too : Which was astonishment to all Spectators both great and small . But none of them could say aright , The cause of this amazing sighed , But the poor mother of the child , She knew the meaning all the while ; But she like Marry for her part , Ponder'd the same within her heart ; Alas , when able , this young dame , Did take leave , and homeward came Again unto the British shore , But ne'er went to her father more ; She lived with a Goldsmith in the Strand , A very aged Gentleman . She had two thousand pounds we hear , And boarded with them seven years , At last this Goldsmith and his wife By death deprived were of life . Having a son at man's estate , Endu'd with worldly riches great This damsel being boarded there , And of a charming beauty fair . Having a thousand pounds withal , This man in love with her did fallen ; And they in love so well agreed , That they were married with speed . And as the apple of his eye . He loved her most tenderly ; So now I'll leave them for a while , With providence on them to smile . PART II AND next some small enquiry make , What course of life her father takes , He sent to Guernsey for to know How things did with his daughter go . The answer was return'd , she's fled , At which he sigh'd and shook his head , Saying , Oh let that day be cursed , In which , to satisfy my Lust , I rob'd my child of honour then , For which I was the worst of Men ; What a wretch was I to be so vile , Of honour for to rob my child ? All womenkind that do me meet Will stop me as I walk the stree Calling me brutish beast ; but I Am worse than brutus's , by reason , why ? Because the brutus's do in their kind , I rob'd a lovely child of mine ; To wrong her thus I am to blame , Thou'rt lost I fear to hide thy shame . Thou'rt gone into some cave to be , Where thou with grief will pine and die , As for the baby thou didst bear All by my villainy yet care . Of him I am resolv'd to take ; My whole state to him I'll make . This being done , then out of hand , With speed I'll quit my native land . And in some foreign wilderness My sorrow great I will express , With weeping eyes , and tears great flood , Unto the harmless trees and birds . Where warbling birds do strain their throars Singing out their warbling notes , Most sweet and lovely to the ear , But they need not their anger fear . O God! whose great all seeing eye , Can in great deserts me espy , Encompassed with sorrows round , He said my sins will cut me down . Like grass that withers and consumes , This shameful since will be my doom , So in small time as we hear , To Guiney he his course did steer . There in and unfrequented wood , This man became a Lion's food : Now since he has lost his breath , And come to and untimely death , We'll leave him , and give you to know , How things did with his daughter go . PART III . HIS Son he by his father had , Grew up to be a comely lad , And in this island , as 'tis told , He tarried till sixteen years old , At last this youth as it is said , Resolved for to learn a trade . He came to London city where In a short time he prentice were Unto this Goldsmith and no other , Whose wife happen'd to be his Mother . But all his apprenticeship that while , She never knew he was her child . The last year of his service then , His Master dy'd like other Men . He forced was by cruel death , For to resign his vital breath : This apprentice being tall , And of a pleasant look withal , His mistress fancy'd him so well , That she till death with him could dwell , And according to Old England's Laws , She to her apprentice joined was , And all the livelong wedding day , In mirth they passed the time away ; When night was come with free consent , To-bed this bride and bridegroom went , Taking their rest and sleep that night , But in the morning e'er 'twas Light , As she her husband's Side lay by , Upon his breast she did espy The mark as I before told you , Whereby to her great grief she knew He was born of her own body , At which she wept most bitterly . Smiting her breast , she said , I find No woman's sorrow like to mine . To hear her groans and dismal cries , It put her in a sad surprise . Saying , My dear prey let me know , The cause of your lamenting so ; Alas I have cause enough she cries , With very grief my heart it lies Bleeding within my mournful breast , On earth we no more shall have test , My very soul's oppressed with care , My sorrows more than I can bear . O wretched man the cause of this , Ne'er think to taste of heavenly bliss : Hearing these words immediately , He straightway made her this reply . What harm have I pray to you shown , As makes you make this piteous moan ? Her answer was no harm at all : The things that makes my tears to fallen And thus deprives me of my rest , It is the mark upon your breast ? A wicked man , father of mine , Did overcome me once with wine ; And having done this thing , then he Robb'd me of my Virginity , Contrary to God's holy Laws , You in my womb conceived was . I am the woman that boar you , Your Sister , Wife , and Mother too ; Oh what uncommon thing is here , My wife to be my Mother dear . Her answer was , 'Tis so indeed , These thoughts does make my heart to bleed , This thing does all my glory blast , Of joyful days I have seen the last . No sort of succour will I have , But will go mourning to the grave , I fear that when my body's dead , And under earth is covered , My poor distressed forsaken soul Will in the air be left to howl . So this past on a month or two , In great sorrow , grief , and woe . And with deep groans and panting heart , She with her precious life did part , Leaving her loving spouse behind , For her in floods of tears to pine . And thus in grief of soul , I say , Lord give me patience I thee pray ; And that this may a warning be , To all that hear my destiny . Now to conclude , you women all , And likewise maidens great and small , Let this poor woman's destiny , By you always lamented be . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , Loondon ; st THE GUERNSEY Garland . PART I . YOU Mortals all that deal unjust , Who use yourselves to filthy Lust , Be pleas'd a while for to draw near , And listen to this ditty here . Which of a Nobleman I write , Who had a comely daughter bright , Aged fifteen , a comely Child , Who by her father was beguil'd . Her tender mother being dead , She by her father was tempted , With him to lie , and in so doing , At last is prov'd her utter Ruin . At last she prov'd with-child , and low , On finding of it out , she cried Oh Father I am with-child by you , Alas , alas , what shall I do ? If it is known I am with-child , My fortune is for ever spoil'd , Alas , alas , I am undone , To hide my shame where shall I run . Daughter , be not dissatisfy'd , I will take care thy shame to hide : In Guernsey there I have a friend , To whom with speed I will thee send . And if the child should chance to live , Full forty pounds a year I'll give , To some who shall it own , he said , Hence to the Isle she was convey'd . In sorrow there in a short while , She was delivered of a child ; This baby was a son we hear , Upon whose breast did plain appear These words at large , in letters blue , I am thy Son and Brother too : Which was astonishment to all Spectators both great and small . But none of them could say aright , The cause of this amazing sighed , But the poor mother of the child , She knew the meaning all the while ; But she like Marry for her part , Ponder'd the same within her heart ; Alas , when able , this young dame , Did take leave , and homeward came Again unto the British shore , But ne'er went to her father more ; She lived with a Goldsmith in the Strand , A very aged Gentleman . She had two thousand pounds we hear , And boarded with them seven years , At last this Goldsmith and his wife By death deprived were of life . Having a son at man's estate , Endu'd with worldly riches great This damsel being boarded there , And of a charming beauty fair . Having a thousand pounds withal , This man in love with her did fallen ; And they in love so well agreed , That they were married with speed . And as the apple of his eye . He loved her most tenderly ; So now I'll leave them for a while , With providence on them to smile . PART II AND next some small enquiry make , What course of life her father takes , He sent to Guernsey for to know How things did with his daughter go . The answer was return'd , she's fled , At which he sigh'd and shook his head , Saying , Oh let that day be cursed , In which , to satisfy my Lust , I rob'd my child of honour then , For which I was the worst of Men ; What a wretch was I to be so vile , Of honour for to rob my child ? All womenkind that do me meet Will stop me as I walk the stree Calling me brutish beast ; but I Am worse than brutus's , by reason , why ? Because the brutus's do in their kind , I rob'd a lovely child of mine ; To wrong her thus I am to blame , Thou'rt lost I fear to hide thy shame . Thou'rt gone into some cave to be , Where thou with grief will pine and die , As for the baby thou didst bear All by my villainy yet care . Of him I am resolv'd to take ; My whole state to him I'll make . This being done , then out of hand , With speed I'll quit my native land . And in some foreign wilderness My sorrow great I will express , With weeping eyes , and tears great flood , Unto the harmless trees and birds . Where warbling birds do strain their throars Singing out their warbling notes , Most sweet and lovely to the ear , But they need not their anger fear . O God! whose great all seeing eye , Can in great deserts me espy , Encompassed with sorrows round , He said my sins will cut me down . Like grass that withers and consumes , This shameful since will be my doom , So in small time as we hear , To Guiney he his course did steer . There in and unfrequented wood , This man became a Lion's food : Now since he has lost his breath , And come to and untimely death , We'll leave him , and give you to know , How things did with his daughter go . PART III . HIS Son he by his father had , Grew up to be a comely lad , And in this island , as 'tis told , He tarried till sixteen years old , At last this youth as it is said , Resolved for to learn a trade . He came to London city where In a short time he prentice were Unto this Goldsmith and no other , Whose wife happen'd to be his Mother . But all his apprenticeship that while , She never knew he was her child . The last year of his service then , His Master dy'd like other Men . He forced was by cruel death , For to resign his vital breath : This apprentice being tall , And of a pleasant look withal , His mistress fancy'd him so well , That she till death with him could dwell , And according to Old England's Laws , She to her apprentice joined was , And all the livelong wedding day , In mirth they passed the time away ; When night was come with free consent , To-bed this bride and bridegroom went , Taking their rest and sleep that night , But in the morning e'er 'twas Light , As she her husband's Side lay by , Upon his breast she did espy The mark as I before told you , Whereby to her great grief she knew He was born of her own body , At which she wept most bitterly . Smiting her breast , she said , I find No woman's sorrow like to mine . To hear her groans and dismal cries , It put her in a sad surprise . Saying , My dear prey let me know , The cause of your lamenting so ; Alas I have cause enough she cries , With very grief my heart it lies Bleeding within my mournful breast , On earth we no more shall have test , My very soul's oppressed with care , My sorrows more than I can bear . O wretched man the cause of this , Ne'er think to taste of heavenly bliss : Hearing these words immediately , He straightway made her this reply . What harm have I pray to you shown , As makes you make this piteous moan ? Her answer was no harm at all : The things that makes my tears to fallen And thus deprives me of my rest , It is the mark upon your breast ? A wicked man , father of mine , Did overcome me once with wine ; And having done this thing , then he Robb'd me of my Virginity , Contrary to God's holy Laws , You in my womb conceived was . I am the woman that boar you , Your Sister , Wife , and Mother too ; Oh what uncommon thing is here , My wife to be my Mother dear . Her answer was , 'Tis so indeed , These thoughts does make my heart to bleed , This thing does all my glory blast , Of joyful days I have seen the last . No sort of succour will I have , But will go mourning to the grave , I fear that when my body's dead , And under earth is covered , My poor distressed forsaken soul Will in the air be left to howl . So this past on a month or two , In great sorrow , grief , and woe . And with deep groans and panting heart , She with her precious life did part , Leaving her loving spouse behind , For her in floods of tears to pine . And thus in grief of soul , I say , Lord give me patience I thee pray ; And that this may a warning be , To all that hear my destiny . Now to conclude , you women all , And likewise maidens great and small , Let this poor woman's destiny , By you always lamented be . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , Loondon ; st 