Captain Johnson's Last Farewell to the World , who was executed at Tyburn , near London for being concened in stealing and Heirres . To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell ; or , Monmonth's Lament . YOU noble Lords of high Degree , That see my dismal Doom ; Have some Regard , and pity me , Who now , alas ! am come To die and ignominious Death , As it does will appear ; While I declare , with my last Breath , The Laws are most severe . In Scotland I was breed and born , Of noble Parents there ; Good Education did adorn My Life , I do declare : No Crime did e'er my Consciance stain , 'Till I adventur'd here ; Thus have I Reason to complain , The Laws are most severe . In Flanders I the French have fac'd , And likewise in Ireland Still eagerly pursued the Chase , With valiant Heart and Hand : Why was I not in Battle slave ; Rather then suffer here , A Death , which Mortals do disdain , The Laws are most severe . I did not Hurt , nor any Wrong , I solemnly protest ; But merely for to serve my Friend , I granted his Request ; To free his Lady out of Thrall , His Joy and only Dear ; And now my Life must pay for all , The Laws are most severe . I coming from my Native Land , In this unhappy Time , Alas ! I did not understand The Nature of the Crime ; Therefore I soon did condescend , As it does well appear , And find therein I did offend , The Laws are most severe . In the same Lodging where I lay , And liv'd at Bed and Board , My Landlord did my Life betray , For fifty Pounds reward ; Then being into Prison cast , Although with Conscience clear ; I was a arraigned at the last , The Laws are most severe . The Lady will not hear my Moan , While dying Words I sent ; Her cruel Heart more hard than Stone , Would not the least relent ; But triumphing in my wretched State , As I die often here ; I fallen here by the Hand of Fate , The Laws are most severe . Will not my good and gracious King , Be merciful to me ; Is there not , in his Breast , a Spring , Of princely Clemency ? No , not for me , alas ! I die , The Hour is drawing near , To the last Minute I shall cry The Laws are most severe . Farewell , dear Countrymen , said he , And this tumultuous Noise ; My Soul will soon transported be , To more Celestial Joys , Tho' in the Blossom of my Youth , Pale Death I do not fear ; For to the last , I'll speak the Truth , The Laws are most severe . Alas ! I have not long to live , And therefore now , said he , All that wrong'd me , I them forgive , As God shall pardon me : My Landlord and subtle Wife , I do forgive them here ; Farewell , this transitory Life , The Laws are most severe . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printen and Sold by JOHN WHITE . Captain Johnson's Last Farewell to the World , who was executed at Tyburn , near London for being concened in stealing and Heirres . To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell ; or , Monmonth's Lament . YOU noble Lords of high Degree , That see my dismal Doom ; Have some Regard , and pity me , Who now , alas ! am come To die and ignominious Death , As it does will appear ; While I declare , with my last Breath , The Laws are most severe . In Scotland I was breed and born , Of noble Parents there ; Good Education did adorn My Life , I do declare : No Crime did e'er my Consciance stain , 'Till I adventur'd here ; Thus have I Reason to complain , The Laws are most severe . In Flanders I the French have fac'd , And likewise in Ireland Still eagerly pursued the Chase , With valiant Heart and Hand : Why was I not in Battle slave ; Rather then suffer here , A Death , which Mortals do disdain , The Laws are most severe . I did not Hurt , nor any Wrong , I solemnly protest ; But merely for to serve my Friend , I granted his Request ; To free his Lady out of Thrall , His Joy and only Dear ; And now my Life must pay for all , The Laws are most severe . I coming from my Native Land , In this unhappy Time , Alas ! I did not understand The Nature of the Crime ; Therefore I soon did condescend , As it does well appear , And find therein I did offend , The Laws are most severe . In the same Lodging where I lay , And liv'd at Bed and Board , My Landlord did my Life betray , For fifty Pounds reward ; Then being into Prison cast , Although with Conscience clear ; I was a arraigned at the last , The Laws are most severe . The Lady will not hear my Moan , While dying Words I sent ; Her cruel Heart more hard than Stone , Would not the least relent ; But triumphing in my wretched State , As I die often here ; I fallen here by the Hand of Fate , The Laws are most severe . Will not my good and gracious King , Be merciful to me ; Is there not , in his Breast , a Spring , Of princely Clemency ? No , not for me , alas ! I die , The Hour is drawing near , To the last Minute I shall cry The Laws are most severe . Farewell , dear Countrymen , said he , And this tumultuous Noise ; My Soul will soon transported be , To more Celestial Joys , Tho' in the Blossom of my Youth , Pale Death I do not fear ; For to the last , I'll speak the Truth , The Laws are most severe . Alas ! I have not long to live , And therefore now , said he , All that wrong'd me , I them forgive , As God shall pardon me : My Landlord and subtle Wife , I do forgive them here ; Farewell , this transitory Life , The Laws are most severe . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printen and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 