The Broken CONTRACT , Or , The Betray'd Virgin's Complaint . PART . I . YOU maidens all I pray give ear , Unto my sad downfall which I declare , Of parentage I am , Nigh to a gentleman . As some now witness can the date of year , At fourteen years of age with grief I tell , Many a young man lov'd me very well , I being childish and young , I believ'd a flattering-tongue , And fix'd my mind upon a brisk young man . He said if I'd not yield with him to dwell , He would go hang himself what e'er befell , He wrung and tore his hair , And solemnly did swear , His sword should end his care , before me then . But hearing what he said grieved me so , I took him for my friend and not my foe , Young man said I forbear , And p [ r ] ay let go your hair , I'll ease you of your care and be your bride . O how he jump'd for joy before me then , My love , my only dear happy's the man , He kindly me embrac'd , And hung about my waist . And then my love I plac'd on this young man . For two months space or more he courted me , And swore without my love he was not free ; He let me take no rest , I must sleep on his breast , And then my love I plac'd most desperately . The appointed day we set for to be wed , But first of all he stole my maidenhead , My parents did not know , I lov'd this young man so , Which prov'd my overthrow and ruin quite . When I with child did prove and h [ i ] m had told , He called me twenty whores brazen and bold , I know you not said he , So pray be gone from me , Which prov'd my misery , my love grew cold . I was asham'd to stay where I was known , So straightway I did go from my own home , Then wander'd up and down , From sea port town to town , 'Till I in travail fell down on the highway . Then taken up I was by women kind , Whose friendship to show nature did bind , Deliver'd then I were , Of two fine babies there , Which caused me much care , be warn'd by me , PART . II WAS ever damsel so unfortunate , As I have been ? so I my grief is great , No comfort can I find , To ease my troubled mind , Since he is so unkind that ruin'd me . My friends and parents dear , I left , To wander up and down sadly bereft , Of joy and comfort too , False man farewell , adieu ! In troubles now I rue my unhappy state . My infants now being born as I have told , I then endur [ ' ] worser the scorns of young and old , For they did deride me , In my sad misery , No comfort could I see to ease my care . Then with my loving son and daughter dear , I went unto my love when I came there , With dismal heaviness , These words I did express , I pray my wrongs redress and pity me . I laid before him then my grief and care , And likewise told him when with sad despair , I wander to and from In my sad pain and woe , And knew not where to go and ease my care . I told him I had no place of abided , But travell'd to and fro' in the high road . I did in travail fallen . My sorrow was not small , Having no friend at all to succour me . These infants at my breast by you I have , And were they but rich dressed would be as brave , As e'er the sun shone on , Then hear my piteous moan , And for their sakes alone , love pity me . When I had ended this sad mournful tale , With a most bitter curse he then did rail , Striking me such a blow , As laid me sprawling low , With grief my eyes did flow , with briny tears . My little infants cry'd when I was down , Here was my patience mov'd for in the town , That night I must not stay But was compell'd away , I knew not what to say , but wept amain . In the town where he liv'd I was not known , Therefore their rage I felt , for he alone , Hir'd near a hundred more , Who did abuse me soar , Never was a soul before used like me , They drove me out of town no friend I saw , My former bed of down was chang'd to straw , The infants at my side . With bitter bruises cry'd , And the next day they dy'd tho' to my grief . Sweet tender virgins young take heed I pray , Let not deluding tongue steal you away , Lest you my grief behold , Which have been manifold , Hight love is soonest cold . be rul'd by me . The mournful Answer to the Betray'd Virgin . AS he was on his bed the self the same night , Strange things run in his head did him affright He dream'd his love he see , In sad extremity , So the next morning he bitterly cry'd . I am the wretched man who broke my vows , No living mortal can pity me now , Bath'd in tears I lie , Accus'd of perjury , Oh! whither must I fly to ease my grief . No youthful lady fair , or beauty bright , Could with my love compare tho' I did slight , Her lamentation so , Causing her overthrow , In bitter grief and woe , when in distress . My very conscience , friends flies in my face , How shall I make amends for my disgrace , Which I did bring her to , When from her friends she flew , My troubles to renew both day and night . Why did I strike her down with blows severe , Why did I raise the town to fright my dear , When she her moan did make , For her dear infant's sake . With grief my heart will break for what I've done , I'll seek the nation round night and day , And if she can be found without delay , I will her pardon crave , Which if I may not have , I'll seek a silent grave , and lay me down . O'er hills and dales he passed , thro' groves he went , And at last he found his hearts content , Near to a river side , Where silver streams do guide , His love there he espy'd bleeding to death . Close by her side he found these verses writ , My self did give the wound that I might quit , My life of care and grief , Since there was no relief , Worse than a cruel thief my love has been . Like one distracted then his locks he tore , And often kiss'd her lips when bath'd in gore , Crying out as she lay , This is the dismal day . Alas what shall I say , I am the cause . What shall I think of this that I have done , Then her lips did kiss both pale and wan , By sorrows compass'd round , Lying upon the ground , He bath'd her bleeding wound with flowing tears . He many sighs did fetch crying amain , None but a cruel wretch as I have been , Could e'er have serv'd thee so , For to my grief I know , I wrought thy overthrow and ruin'd thee . Has death no fatal dart that he can give , To pierce my cruel heart why should I live , Why should I here remain , Since my true love is slave , Oh! ease me of my pain , and let me die . I'll go the nearest way to find my dear , I will no longer stay to languish here , This said his sword he drew , And run his body through , And bid this world adieu as down he went . You perjur'd lovers all take notice pray , See you a conscience make , and don't betray , Any poor harmless love , lest you their ruin prove , For there's a God above will find you out . Sold in Stonecutter-Street , Fleet-Market , The Broken CONTRACT , Or , The Betray'd Virgin's Complaint . PART . I . YOU maidens all I pray give ear , Unto my sad downfall which I declare , Of parentage I am , Nigh to a gentleman . As some now witness can the date of year , At fourteen years of age with grief I tell , Many a young man lov'd me very well , I being childish and young , I believ'd a flattering-tongue , And fix'd my mind upon a brisk young man . He said if I'd not yield with him to dwell , He would go hang himself what e'er befell , He wrung and tore his hair , And solemnly did swear , His sword should end his care , before me then . But hearing what he said grieved me so , I took him for my friend and not my foe , Young man said I forbear , And p [ r ] ay let go your hair , I'll ease you of your care and be your bride . O how he jump'd for joy before me then , My love , my only dear happy's the man , He kindly me embrac'd , And hung about my waist . And then my love I plac'd on this young man . For two months space or more he courted me , And swore without my love he was not free ; He let me take no rest , I must sleep on his breast , And then my love I plac'd most desperately . The appointed day we set for to be wed , But first of all he stole my maidenhead , My parents did not know , I lov'd this young man so , Which prov'd my overthrow and ruin quite . When I with child did prove and h [ i ] m had told , He called me twenty whores brazen and bold , I know you not said he , So pray be gone from me , Which prov'd my misery , my love grew cold . I was asham'd to stay where I was known , So straightway I did go from my own home , Then wander'd up and down , From sea port town to town , 'Till I in travail fell down on the highway . Then taken up I was by women kind , Whose friendship to show nature did bind , Deliver'd then I were , Of two fine babies there , Which caused me much care , be warn'd by me , PART . II WAS ever damsel so unfortunate , As I have been ? so I my grief is great , No comfort can I find , To ease my troubled mind , Since he is so unkind that ruin'd me . My friends and parents dear , I left , To wander up and down sadly bereft , Of joy and comfort too , False man farewell , adieu ! In troubles now I rue my unhappy state . My infants now being born as I have told , I then endur [ ' ] worser the scorns of young and old , For they did deride me , In my sad misery , No comfort could I see to ease my care . Then with my loving son and daughter dear , I went unto my love when I came there , With dismal heaviness , These words I did express , I pray my wrongs redress and pity me . I laid before him then my grief and care , And likewise told him when with sad despair , I wander to and from In my sad pain and woe , And knew not where to go and ease my care . I told him I had no place of abided , But travell'd to and fro' in the high road . I did in travail fallen . My sorrow was not small , Having no friend at all to succour me . These infants at my breast by you I have , And were they but rich dressed would be as brave , As e'er the sun shone on , Then hear my piteous moan , And for their sakes alone , love pity me . When I had ended this sad mournful tale , With a most bitter curse he then did rail , Striking me such a blow , As laid me sprawling low , With grief my eyes did flow , with briny tears . My little infants cry'd when I was down , Here was my patience mov'd for in the town , That night I must not stay But was compell'd away , I knew not what to say , but wept amain . In the town where he liv'd I was not known , Therefore their rage I felt , for he alone , Hir'd near a hundred more , Who did abuse me soar , Never was a soul before used like me , They drove me out of town no friend I saw , My former bed of down was chang'd to straw , The infants at my side . With bitter bruises cry'd , And the next day they dy'd tho' to my grief . Sweet tender virgins young take heed I pray , Let not deluding tongue steal you away , Lest you my grief behold , Which have been manifold , Hight love is soonest cold . be rul'd by me . The mournful Answer to the Betray'd Virgin . AS he was on his bed the self the same night , Strange things run in his head did him affright He dream'd his love he see , In sad extremity , So the next morning he bitterly cry'd . I am the wretched man who broke my vows , No living mortal can pity me now , Bath'd in tears I lie , Accus'd of perjury , Oh! whither must I fly to ease my grief . No youthful lady fair , or beauty bright , Could with my love compare tho' I did slight , Her lamentation so , Causing her overthrow , In bitter grief and woe , when in distress . My very conscience , friends flies in my face , How shall I make amends for my disgrace , Which I did bring her to , When from her friends she flew , My troubles to renew both day and night . Why did I strike her down with blows severe , Why did I raise the town to fright my dear , When she her moan did make , For her dear infant's sake . With grief my heart will break for what I've done , I'll seek the nation round night and day , And if she can be found without delay , I will her pardon crave , Which if I may not have , I'll seek a silent grave , and lay me down . O'er hills and dales he passed , thro' groves he went , And at last he found his hearts content , Near to a river side , Where silver streams do guide , His love there he espy'd bleeding to death . Close by her side he found these verses writ , My self did give the wound that I might quit , My life of care and grief , Since there was no relief , Worse than a cruel thief my love has been . Like one distracted then his locks he tore , And often kiss'd her lips when bath'd in gore , Crying out as she lay , This is the dismal day . Alas what shall I say , I am the cause . What shall I think of this that I have done , Then her lips did kiss both pale and wan , By sorrows compass'd round , Lying upon the ground , He bath'd her bleeding wound with flowing tears . He many sighs did fetch crying amain , None but a cruel wretch as I have been , Could e'er have serv'd thee so , For to my grief I know , I wrought thy overthrow and ruin'd thee . Has death no fatal dart that he can give , To pierce my cruel heart why should I live , Why should I here remain , Since my true love is slave , Oh! ease me of my pain , and let me die . I'll go the nearest way to find my dear , I will no longer stay to languish here , This said his sword he drew , And run his body through , And bid this world adieu as down he went . You perjur'd lovers all take notice pray , See you a conscience make , and don't betray , Any poor harmless love , lest you their ruin prove , For there's a God above will find you out . Sold in Stonecutter-Street , Fleet-Market , 