CHRIST's LOVE . TO PENITENT SINNERS . SHOWING How he shed his Blood seven Times for our SINS . YOU Mortals all of high and low Degree , Draw near a While and listen unto me ; While I unfold these Lines which you shalt find , They are compos'd to put you fresh in mind , Of what our gracious God has done , In sending of his beloved Son : When Thousands on the Brink of Ruin lay , He sent his Son their sinful Debts to pay . Now let's observe this Prince of royal Birth , When at the first he descended on the Earth , Was by a Virgin in a Manger laid , When Christ was born , his Mother was a Maid . This Babe's Birth both far and near did ring , Which reach'd the Ears of Herod that great King ; That angry Monarch for to stir up strife , Was then resolved to take away his Life . To make sure of the Babe we understand , He sent forth a Decree throughout the Land , That every Child then , as he did reign , From two Years old and under should be slave . The Murderers were sent about their Work to do , And many a pretty smiling Babe they slew ; Cutting their Flesh , and breaking of their Bones , Dashing their tender Heads against the Stones . Young harmless Babes they from the Breast did take , And havoc of their crimson Blood did make : Regarding not their Parents Grief and Woe , Who sighed to see their Children murdered so . You have learned the Scripture for to read , Rachel refused to be comforted : Because among the rest Grief was her Lot , She sighed and mourn'd because her Babe was not . Thro' Herod's Wrath this Murder it was done , Thousands were slave to make sure of one ; But God who knows the Hearts and Thoughts of Men , Preserv'd his Son from Herod's cruel Hand . Joseph as he lay Sleeping in the Night , By Dreams was warned for to take his Flight , And take than Babe to Egypt , where The Child thro' Mercy was preserved there . Tho' he escaped that Time in Egypt Land , Pray yet observe and you shall understand ; This Babe was born for our sinful Crimes , Did shed his Blood for us seven several Times . The first Time he shed his Blood for us behold , When he was circumcised at eight Days old ; The second Time as we have often herd , Was when the Jews with Pinchers pull'd his Beard . Out by the Robes , which made me for to think , Blood must appear and make this Lamb to shrink ; The third Time that his Blood in Streams did run , Was when the Jews did scourge him through the Town . The fourth Time in the Garden , where He in his Agony did suffer there ; For by the Scriptures it is so understood , With Grief of Soul he sweat great Drops of Blood . The fifth Time his Blood for us was shed , It was when they with Thorns crowned his Head ; For it needs must make us think indeed , To wear the pricking Thorns his Head must bleed . The sixth Time he shed his Blood most sweet , When to the Cross they nail'd him Hand and Feet ; And like Monsters their Prince for to abuse , Over his Head they writ the King of the Jews . Nay more than that , tho' Prince and Lord of all , They made him drink sharp Vinegar and Gall ; And to degrade him as we understand , They placed two Thieves by him one on each Hand . This done one of the Thieves said thus , If thou be Christ now save thyself and us ; To hear these Words the other did reply , Thou Wretch it is for Justice we must die . But as for this good Man no Ill hath done , What makes thou thus revile this blessed One : Thou Son of God this Penitent did say , In thy Father's Kingdom remember me I pray . Of this Thief's Saying , Christ great Notice took , And to him then with a merciful Look , Christ cast and Eye , and said , Thou shalt be This very Day in Paradise with me . The seventh Time for to augment his Pain , With a sharp Spear they pierced his Sides amain , Great was the Stream of Blood upon the Ground , They pierc'd his Side so deep they made him groan . Out of his Side from his dear Heart ran down , Great Streams of crimson Blood upon the Ground : Dear blessed Lord , how was you then abus'd , By bloody Jews who did no Conscience use . Then on that Day this blessed One was forced , With a deep Groan he yielded up the Ghost . And at this Dissolution then was there , Upon the Earth great Darkness did appear . The Earth did tremble , the Sun withheld its Light , The Rocks against each other now did smite ; The Hills did tremble for a little Space , The lofty Mountains moved from the Place . The Graves did open and many Dead arose , To see this Sighed many of his cruel Foes ; Astonish'd said , These Things looks very odd , Surely this Man was the Son of God . Then in a new Sepulcher Christ was lain , Wherein three Days and Nights he did remain ; And when he arose , we hear , in Hell The Devil trembled , and with Rage did swell . Tho' in Death's Chains Christ was forced to lie , In God's true Time he made those Fetters fly : Death never was balked froce nor before , Christ's Resurrection made the Devils roar . The first Time Christ was upon the Earth , He persecuted was unto his Death ; 'Twas for our Sins he suffered thus indeed , To think on this what Heart can cease to bleed . Too many of us do act forbidden Things , And daily do crucify the King of Kings ; E'er it be too late your Wickedness give o'er , For Christ for us will shed his Blood no more . As we must die and Christ our Judge must be , To serve our Maker let us all agree ; That Christ may say that sits upon the Throne , Come Souls ! I dy'd for you , you are my own . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White . CHRIST's LOVE . TO PENITENT SINNERS . SHOWING How he shed his Blood seven Times for our SINS . YOU Mortals all of high and low Degree , Draw near a While and listen unto me ; While I unfold these Lines which you shalt find , They are compos'd to put you fresh in mind , Of what our gracious God has done , In sending of his beloved Son : When Thousands on the Brink of Ruin lay , He sent his Son their sinful Debts to pay . Now let's observe this Prince of royal Birth , When at the first he descended on the Earth , Was by a Virgin in a Manger laid , When Christ was born , his Mother was a Maid . This Babe's Birth both far and near did ring , Which reach'd the Ears of Herod that great King ; That angry Monarch for to stir up strife , Was then resolved to take away his Life . To make sure of the Babe we understand , He sent forth a Decree throughout the Land , That every Child then , as he did reign , From two Years old and under should be slave . The Murderers were sent about their Work to do , And many a pretty smiling Babe they slew ; Cutting their Flesh , and breaking of their Bones , Dashing their tender Heads against the Stones . Young harmless Babes they from the Breast did take , And havoc of their crimson Blood did make : Regarding not their Parents Grief and Woe , Who sighed to see their Children murdered so . You have learned the Scripture for to read , Rachel refused to be comforted : Because among the rest Grief was her Lot , She sighed and mourn'd because her Babe was not . Thro' Herod's Wrath this Murder it was done , Thousands were slave to make sure of one ; But God who knows the Hearts and Thoughts of Men , Preserv'd his Son from Herod's cruel Hand . Joseph as he lay Sleeping in the Night , By Dreams was warned for to take his Flight , And take than Babe to Egypt , where The Child thro' Mercy was preserved there . Tho' he escaped that Time in Egypt Land , Pray yet observe and you shall understand ; This Babe was born for our sinful Crimes , Did shed his Blood for us seven several Times . The first Time he shed his Blood for us behold , When he was circumcised at eight Days old ; The second Time as we have often herd , Was when the Jews with Pinchers pull'd his Beard . Out by the Robes , which made me for to think , Blood must appear and make this Lamb to shrink ; The third Time that his Blood in Streams did run , Was when the Jews did scourge him through the Town . The fourth Time in the Garden , where He in his Agony did suffer there ; For by the Scriptures it is so understood , With Grief of Soul he sweat great Drops of Blood . The fifth Time his Blood for us was shed , It was when they with Thorns crowned his Head ; For it needs must make us think indeed , To wear the pricking Thorns his Head must bleed . The sixth Time he shed his Blood most sweet , When to the Cross they nail'd him Hand and Feet ; And like Monsters their Prince for to abuse , Over his Head they writ the King of the Jews . Nay more than that , tho' Prince and Lord of all , They made him drink sharp Vinegar and Gall ; And to degrade him as we understand , They placed two Thieves by him one on each Hand . This done one of the Thieves said thus , If thou be Christ now save thyself and us ; To hear these Words the other did reply , Thou Wretch it is for Justice we must die . But as for this good Man no Ill hath done , What makes thou thus revile this blessed One : Thou Son of God this Penitent did say , In thy Father's Kingdom remember me I pray . Of this Thief's Saying , Christ great Notice took , And to him then with a merciful Look , Christ cast and Eye , and said , Thou shalt be This very Day in Paradise with me . The seventh Time for to augment his Pain , With a sharp Spear they pierced his Sides amain , Great was the Stream of Blood upon the Ground , They pierc'd his Side so deep they made him groan . Out of his Side from his dear Heart ran down , Great Streams of crimson Blood upon the Ground : Dear blessed Lord , how was you then abus'd , By bloody Jews who did no Conscience use . Then on that Day this blessed One was forced , With a deep Groan he yielded up the Ghost . And at this Dissolution then was there , Upon the Earth great Darkness did appear . The Earth did tremble , the Sun withheld its Light , The Rocks against each other now did smite ; The Hills did tremble for a little Space , The lofty Mountains moved from the Place . The Graves did open and many Dead arose , To see this Sighed many of his cruel Foes ; Astonish'd said , These Things looks very odd , Surely this Man was the Son of God . Then in a new Sepulcher Christ was lain , Wherein three Days and Nights he did remain ; And when he arose , we hear , in Hell The Devil trembled , and with Rage did swell . Tho' in Death's Chains Christ was forced to lie , In God's true Time he made those Fetters fly : Death never was balked froce nor before , Christ's Resurrection made the Devils roar . The first Time Christ was upon the Earth , He persecuted was unto his Death ; 'Twas for our Sins he suffered thus indeed , To think on this what Heart can cease to bleed . Too many of us do act forbidden Things , And daily do crucify the King of Kings ; E'er it be too late your Wickedness give o'er , For Christ for us will shed his Blood no more . As we must die and Christ our Judge must be , To serve our Maker let us all agree ; That Christ may say that sits upon the Throne , Come Souls ! I dy'd for you , you are my own . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White . 