My DOG and I : We write no Frights on Dutch or French , No Cousters of a handsome Wench , No Monstrous Wonders in the Air , No Persons Dying in Despair , Nor any Thing under the Sky , But only my Dog and I . Tune is , My DOG and I ; or , Bobbing JONE . YOU that are of the merry Throng , Give good Attention to my Song , I'll give you weighty Reasons why , 'Tis made upon my Dog and I ; My Dog and I [ , ] my Dog and I , 'Tis made upon my Dog and I . I of no dogged Nature am , But loving , gentle , kind , and tame , And have no bigger Family , But only Two , my Dog and I ; My Dog , etc I liv'd at Home , I liv'd at large , A single Life , and had no Charge ; And if a Wench I chanc'd to 'spy , To her went my Dog and I : My Dog , etc I lov'd a Maid , her Name was Nell , A bonny Lass , I lov'd her well ; If you'd needs know the Reason why , Because she lov'd my Dog and I : My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Because she lov'd my Dog and I . My Dog and I have god a Trick , To cure Maids when they are sick , When they are sick , and like to die , Then thither goes my Dog and I : My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Then thither goes my Dog and I . But if the Weather proves foul and wet , My Dog he shall not wet his Feet ; But if the Weather proves fair and dry , Then a Whistling goes my Dog and I : My Dog , etc If any Maidens troubled be , With overgrown Virginity , I quickly can two Pills apply , Conceal'd by my Dog and I : My Dog , etc If the Greensickness have possessed , A dainty dapper Damsel's Breast , I'll cure her on't immediately , With nothing but my Dog and I : My Dog , etc If Women are in Distress , By Reason of their Barronness , I can a proper Dose apply , Best known unto my Dog and I : My Dog , etc From Fifteen unto Fifty I , Can give a Woman Remedy ; But if they up to Threescore fly , There's no Game for my Dog and I : My Dog , etc When Mars commanded ; we did go Unto the Wars in Forty Two ; We'll never fear in Field to die , But out we'll go , my Dog and I : My Dog , etc There was a Time when Reble rout , Did fear Prince Rupert and his Days , 'Tis dangerous when two Hearts comply , Especially my Dog and I : My Dog , etc We Night and Day do take no Rest , If we can hear of any Feast , And where good Fellows I espy , There goes in my Dog and I : My Dog , etc My Living lies in every Nook , My Dog is Catorer and Cook ; For he at every Game can fly , No Fellow to my Dog and I : My Dog , etc By Day to play the Pime is taught , I fear 'tis many Gallants Fate , Near Hatten-Wall such Whores do lie , Are fitter for my Dog then I . My Dog , etc Thus have we liv'd , thus have we lov'd , And faithful to each other prov'd , While many Thieves are hang'd on high , No Law can touch my Dog and I : My Dog , etc If Death do come as it may hap , My Grave shall be under the Tap , With folded Arms there we will lie , Cheek by Jowl , my Dog and I : My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Cheek by Jowl my Dog and I . Licensed according to Order . FINIS . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White . My DOG and I : We write no Frights on Dutch or French , No Cousters of a handsome Wench , No Monstrous Wonders in the Air , No Persons Dying in Despair , Nor any Thing under the Sky , But only my Dog and I . Tune is , My DOG and I ; or , Bobbing JONE . YOU that are of the merry Throng , Give good Attention to my Song , I'll give you weighty Reasons why , 'Tis made upon my Dog and I ; My Dog and I [ , ] my Dog and I , 'Tis made upon my Dog and I . I of no dogged Nature am , But loving , gentle , kind , and tame , And have no bigger Family , But only Two , my Dog and I ; My Dog , etc I liv'd at Home , I liv'd at large , A single Life , and had no Charge ; And if a Wench I chanc'd to 'spy , To her went my Dog and I : My Dog , etc I lov'd a Maid , her Name was Nell , A bonny Lass , I lov'd her well ; If you'd needs know the Reason why , Because she lov'd my Dog and I : My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Because she lov'd my Dog and I . My Dog and I have god a Trick , To cure Maids when they are sick , When they are sick , and like to die , Then thither goes my Dog and I : My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Then thither goes my Dog and I . But if the Weather proves foul and wet , My Dog he shall not wet his Feet ; But if the Weather proves fair and dry , Then a Whistling goes my Dog and I : My Dog , etc If any Maidens troubled be , With overgrown Virginity , I quickly can two Pills apply , Conceal'd by my Dog and I : My Dog , etc If the Greensickness have possessed , A dainty dapper Damsel's Breast , I'll cure her on't immediately , With nothing but my Dog and I : My Dog , etc If Women are in Distress , By Reason of their Barronness , I can a proper Dose apply , Best known unto my Dog and I : My Dog , etc From Fifteen unto Fifty I , Can give a Woman Remedy ; But if they up to Threescore fly , There's no Game for my Dog and I : My Dog , etc When Mars commanded ; we did go Unto the Wars in Forty Two ; We'll never fear in Field to die , But out we'll go , my Dog and I : My Dog , etc There was a Time when Reble rout , Did fear Prince Rupert and his Days , 'Tis dangerous when two Hearts comply , Especially my Dog and I : My Dog , etc We Night and Day do take no Rest , If we can hear of any Feast , And where good Fellows I espy , There goes in my Dog and I : My Dog , etc My Living lies in every Nook , My Dog is Catorer and Cook ; For he at every Game can fly , No Fellow to my Dog and I : My Dog , etc By Day to play the Pime is taught , I fear 'tis many Gallants Fate , Near Hatten-Wall such Whores do lie , Are fitter for my Dog then I . My Dog , etc Thus have we liv'd , thus have we lov'd , And faithful to each other prov'd , While many Thieves are hang'd on high , No Law can touch my Dog and I : My Dog , etc If Death do come as it may hap , My Grave shall be under the Tap , With folded Arms there we will lie , Cheek by Jowl , my Dog and I : My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Cheek by Jowl my Dog and I . Licensed according to Order . FINIS . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White . 