Crafty KATE of Colchester ; OR , THE Falsehearted Clothier frighted into good Manners . Tune of , The Languishing Lover . YOU that in Merriment delight , Pray listen now to what I write , Then will you Satisfaction find , To cure a melancholy Mind . A Damsel liv'd in Colchester , And there a Clothier courted her , For two Months space both Night and Day , And yet the Damsel said him nay . The Clothier , he then reply'd , If you refuse to be my Bride , It soon will prove my overthrow , Then dearest do not answer no . Said she , Were I to Love inclin'd , Perhaps you soon wou'd change your Mind , And court some other Damsel fair , For Men are false I do declare . By all that's good my dearest Love , I never will unfaithful prove ; Then grant me what I do request , So shall we both be ever blessed . He many Protestations made , And like a loyal Lover said , There's none but thee shall be my Wife , The Joy and Comfort of my Life . This said , at length she gave consent To marry him , likewise they went Unto her Friends and Parents , who Did grant her love and liking too . But see the Fruits of cursed Gold , He left his loyal Love behold , With Grief and Sorrow compass'd round , When he a greater Fortune found . A Lawyer's Daughter fair and bright , Her Parents joy and Heart's delight , He was resolv'd to make his Spouse , Denying all his former Vows . Now when the Damsel came to hear , That she must loose her only Dear , And for the Lawyer's Daughter's sake , Thought she some sport with him I'll make . She knew that every Night he came , From his new Love , Nancy by Name , Sometime at Ten o'Clock or more , Kate to a Tanner went therefore . She borrowed there and old Cowhide , With crooked Horns both large and wide , And having wrapped herself therein , She did her new Intrigue begin . She in a lonesome Field did stay , The Clothier came at length that Way . Where he was sorely scar'd by her , She look'd so like old Lucifer . A hairy Hide , Horns on her Head , Which full three Foot asunder spread , Beside he see a long black Tail , He strove to run , but his Feet did fail , She quickly seiz'd him by the Coat , Then with a grim and dreadful Note , She cry'd , You leave poor Kate , I hear , And woo the Lawyer's Daughter dear . Since you have been so false to her , You perjured Knave of Colchester , You shall whither you will or no , Unto my gloomy Region go . This Voice did so affrighten him , That there he trembled every Limb , Sweet Master Devil spare me now , And I'll perform my former Vow : I'll make young Kate my lawful Bride , Well see you do , the Devil cry'd , Or you shall hear from me again , If Kate against you do complain . Then home he went , tho' very late , He ne'er imagin'd this was Kate , That put him into such a fright , Therefore next Day by Morning light , He went to Kate and marry'd her , For fear of this old Lucifer : Her Friends and Parents thought it strange , There should be such a sudden change . Kate did not let her Parents know ; Nor any other Friend or Foe , Till she a Year had marry'd been , Then told it at her Gossiping . It pleas'd the Women to the Heart , Who said , she bravely play'd her part ; Her Husband laugh'd as well as they , This was a jovial merry Day . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White . Crafty KATE of Colchester ; OR , THE Falsehearted Clothier frighted into good Manners . Tune of , The Languishing Lover . YOU that in Merriment delight , Pray listen now to what I write , Then will you Satisfaction find , To cure a melancholy Mind . A Damsel liv'd in Colchester , And there a Clothier courted her , For two Months space both Night and Day , And yet the Damsel said him nay . The Clothier , he then reply'd , If you refuse to be my Bride , It soon will prove my overthrow , Then dearest do not answer no . Said she , Were I to Love inclin'd , Perhaps you soon wou'd change your Mind , And court some other Damsel fair , For Men are false I do declare . By all that's good my dearest Love , I never will unfaithful prove ; Then grant me what I do request , So shall we both be ever blessed . He many Protestations made , And like a loyal Lover said , There's none but thee shall be my Wife , The Joy and Comfort of my Life . This said , at length she gave consent To marry him , likewise they went Unto her Friends and Parents , who Did grant her love and liking too . But see the Fruits of cursed Gold , He left his loyal Love behold , With Grief and Sorrow compass'd round , When he a greater Fortune found . A Lawyer's Daughter fair and bright , Her Parents joy and Heart's delight , He was resolv'd to make his Spouse , Denying all his former Vows . Now when the Damsel came to hear , That she must loose her only Dear , And for the Lawyer's Daughter's sake , Thought she some sport with him I'll make . She knew that every Night he came , From his new Love , Nancy by Name , Sometime at Ten o'Clock or more , Kate to a Tanner went therefore . She borrowed there and old Cowhide , With crooked Horns both large and wide , And having wrapped herself therein , She did her new Intrigue begin . She in a lonesome Field did stay , The Clothier came at length that Way . Where he was sorely scar'd by her , She look'd so like old Lucifer . A hairy Hide , Horns on her Head , Which full three Foot asunder spread , Beside he see a long black Tail , He strove to run , but his Feet did fail , She quickly seiz'd him by the Coat , Then with a grim and dreadful Note , She cry'd , You leave poor Kate , I hear , And woo the Lawyer's Daughter dear . Since you have been so false to her , You perjured Knave of Colchester , You shall whither you will or no , Unto my gloomy Region go . This Voice did so affrighten him , That there he trembled every Limb , Sweet Master Devil spare me now , And I'll perform my former Vow : I'll make young Kate my lawful Bride , Well see you do , the Devil cry'd , Or you shall hear from me again , If Kate against you do complain . Then home he went , tho' very late , He ne'er imagin'd this was Kate , That put him into such a fright , Therefore next Day by Morning light , He went to Kate and marry'd her , For fear of this old Lucifer : Her Friends and Parents thought it strange , There should be such a sudden change . Kate did not let her Parents know ; Nor any other Friend or Foe , Till she a Year had marry'd been , Then told it at her Gossiping . It pleas'd the Women to the Heart , Who said , she bravely play'd her part ; Her Husband laugh'd as well as they , This was a jovial merry Day . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White . 