Young BATEMAN's Ghos Or , A godly Warning to all Maidens , by the example of Gods Judgement shown upon one German's Wife of Clifton , in the Country of Nottingham ; who lying in Childbed , was born away and never herd of after . YOU dainty Dams so finely fram'd Of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like lambs of Cupid's Fold : Here is a lesson to be learn'd , A lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in Love , And bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , In Clifton , as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame , None with her could compare : Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , Yet as you may perceive , The fairest Face , the falsest heart , The soonest will deceive . This gallant Dame she was belov'd , By many in that place , And many sought in marriage bed Her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome youth , Young Bateman call'd by name , In hope's she would become his wife , Unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , That he from all the rest , Had stolen away the maiden's heart , And she did love him bes Then plighted promise secretly , Did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , This true Love-knot undo . He broke a piece of Gold in twain , One half to her he gave , The other as a pledge ; quoth he , Dear love myself will have . If I do break my vow , quoth she , While I remain alive ; May ne'er a thing I take in hand , Be seen at all to thrive , This passed on for two months space , And then the maid began , To settle love and liking too , Upon another man ; One Germane , who a widower was , Her husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , And better in degree . Her vows and promise lately made , To Bateman she deny'd ? And in despite of him and his , She utterly defy'd : Well then , quoth he , if it be so , That thou wilt me forsake , And like a false and forsworn-wretch ; Another husband take . Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , For surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , When I am laid in grave : Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , Therefore be well assur'd , When for my sake thou hear'st report , What torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love . And finish'd his Life ; That very day she marry'd was , And made old German's Wife , For with a strangling cord , god wot , ( Great moan was made therefore ) He hang'd himself in desperate sort , Before the bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , And troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that , One day of comfort find : And wheresoever she did go , Her fancy did surmise , Young Bateman's pale and ghastly ghost , Appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed one night did lie , Betwixt her husbands arms , In hope's thereby to sleep and rest , In safety without harms : Great cries and grievous groans , she herd A voice that sometime cry'd , Oh! thou art she that I must have , And will not be deny'd . But she being grown big with child , Was for the infants sake , Preserved from the spirits power , No vengeance could it take . The babe unborn did safely keep , As God appointed so , His Mother's Body from the fiend , That sought her Overthrow . But being of her Burden eas'd , And safely brought to bed , Her cares and griefs began a new , and further sorrow bred : And of her Friends she did entreat , desiring them to stay . Out of the Bed [ quoth she ] this Night , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my Love , with pale and ghastly Face , Who till he carries me henceforth , will not depart this place , Alive or dead , I'm his by Right , and he will surely have , In Spite of me and all the World , what I by promise gave . Oh! watch with me this Night , I pray , and see you do not sleep ; No longer than you be awake , My Body can you keep , All promised to do their best , Yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the Night to keep Sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , To them unknown which way , The Childbed woman , that woeful night , From thence was born away : And to what place no creature knew , Nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet In any age befell . You maidens that desire to love , And would good husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love , By no means do refuse : For God that hears all secret oaths , Will dreadful vengeance taste , On such that of a wilful Vow , Do slender Reckoning make . Young BATEMAN's Ghos Or , A godly Warning to all Maidens , by the example of Gods Judgement shown upon one German's Wife of Clifton , in the Country of Nottingham ; who lying in Childbed , was born away and never herd of after . YOU dainty Dams so finely fram'd Of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like lambs of Cupid's Fold : Here is a lesson to be learn'd , A lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in Love , And bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , In Clifton , as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame , None with her could compare : Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , Yet as you may perceive , The fairest Face , the falsest heart , The soonest will deceive . This gallant Dame she was belov'd , By many in that place , And many sought in marriage bed Her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome youth , Young Bateman call'd by name , In hope's she would become his wife , Unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , That he from all the rest , Had stolen away the maiden's heart , And she did love him bes Then plighted promise secretly , Did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , This true Love-knot undo . He broke a piece of Gold in twain , One half to her he gave , The other as a pledge ; quoth he , Dear love myself will have . If I do break my vow , quoth she , While I remain alive ; May ne'er a thing I take in hand , Be seen at all to thrive , This passed on for two months space , And then the maid began , To settle love and liking too , Upon another man ; One Germane , who a widower was , Her husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , And better in degree . Her vows and promise lately made , To Bateman she deny'd ? And in despite of him and his , She utterly defy'd : Well then , quoth he , if it be so , That thou wilt me forsake , And like a false and forsworn-wretch ; Another husband take . Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , For surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , When I am laid in grave : Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , Therefore be well assur'd , When for my sake thou hear'st report , What torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love . And finish'd his Life ; That very day she marry'd was , And made old German's Wife , For with a strangling cord , god wot , ( Great moan was made therefore ) He hang'd himself in desperate sort , Before the bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , And troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that , One day of comfort find : And wheresoever she did go , Her fancy did surmise , Young Bateman's pale and ghastly ghost , Appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed one night did lie , Betwixt her husbands arms , In hope's thereby to sleep and rest , In safety without harms : Great cries and grievous groans , she herd A voice that sometime cry'd , Oh! thou art she that I must have , And will not be deny'd . But she being grown big with child , Was for the infants sake , Preserved from the spirits power , No vengeance could it take . The babe unborn did safely keep , As God appointed so , His Mother's Body from the fiend , That sought her Overthrow . But being of her Burden eas'd , And safely brought to bed , Her cares and griefs began a new , and further sorrow bred : And of her Friends she did entreat , desiring them to stay . Out of the Bed [ quoth she ] this Night , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my Love , with pale and ghastly Face , Who till he carries me henceforth , will not depart this place , Alive or dead , I'm his by Right , and he will surely have , In Spite of me and all the World , what I by promise gave . Oh! watch with me this Night , I pray , and see you do not sleep ; No longer than you be awake , My Body can you keep , All promised to do their best , Yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the Night to keep Sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , To them unknown which way , The Childbed woman , that woeful night , From thence was born away : And to what place no creature knew , Nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet In any age befell . You maidens that desire to love , And would good husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love , By no means do refuse : For God that hears all secret oaths , Will dreadful vengeance taste , On such that of a wilful Vow , Do slender Reckoning make . 