The Merchant's SON , AND THE BEGGAR-WENCH of HULL . YOU gallants all I pray draw near , And you a pleasant Jest shall hear , How a Beggar Wench of Hull , A Merchant's Son of York did gull . Fa , la , etc One morning on a certain day , He cloath'd himself in rich array , And took with him as it was told , The sum of sixty pounds in gold , Fa , la , etc So mounting on a prancing steed , He towards Hull did ride with speed ; Where in his way he chanc'd to see , A Beggar Wench of mean degree . She asked him for some relief , And said with tears of seeming grief , That she had neither house nor home , But for her living was forc'd to rome . He seemed to lament her case , And said , Thou hast a pretty face ; If thou wilt lodge with me , he cry'd , With gold thou shalt be satisfy'd . Her silence seem'd to give consent , So to a little house they went ; The landlord laugh'd to see him kiss , The Beggar Wench a ragged Miss . He needs must have a dinner dressed , And call'd for liquour of the best ; And there they tossed of bumpers free , The jolly Beggar Wench and He. A dose she gave him as 'tis thought , Which by the landlady was bought ; For all the night he lay in bed , Secure as if he had been dead . Then she put on all his clothes , His coat , his breeches , and his hose ; His hat , his periwig likewise , And seiz'd upon the golden prize . Her greasy petticoat and gown , In which she rambled up and down , She left the Merchant's Son in lieu , Her bag of bred and bottle too . Down stairs like any spark she goes , Five guineas to the host she throws , And smiling then she went away , And ne'er was herd of to this day . When he had took his long repose , He look'd about and missed his clothes ; And saw her rags lie in the room , How he did storm , nay fret and fume . Yet wanting clothes and friends in town , Her greasy petticoat and gown He did put on , and mounted strait , Bemoaning his unhappy fate . You would have laugh'd to see the dress Which he was in , yet ne'ertheless , He homeward road , and often swore , He'd never kiss a Beggar more . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow-Lane , London . The Merchant's SON , AND THE BEGGAR-WENCH of HULL . YOU gallants all I pray draw near , And you a pleasant Jest shall hear , How a Beggar Wench of Hull , A Merchant's Son of York did gull . Fa , la , etc One morning on a certain day , He cloath'd himself in rich array , And took with him as it was told , The sum of sixty pounds in gold , Fa , la , etc So mounting on a prancing steed , He towards Hull did ride with speed ; Where in his way he chanc'd to see , A Beggar Wench of mean degree . She asked him for some relief , And said with tears of seeming grief , That she had neither house nor home , But for her living was forc'd to rome . He seemed to lament her case , And said , Thou hast a pretty face ; If thou wilt lodge with me , he cry'd , With gold thou shalt be satisfy'd . Her silence seem'd to give consent , So to a little house they went ; The landlord laugh'd to see him kiss , The Beggar Wench a ragged Miss . He needs must have a dinner dressed , And call'd for liquour of the best ; And there they tossed of bumpers free , The jolly Beggar Wench and He. A dose she gave him as 'tis thought , Which by the landlady was bought ; For all the night he lay in bed , Secure as if he had been dead . Then she put on all his clothes , His coat , his breeches , and his hose ; His hat , his periwig likewise , And seiz'd upon the golden prize . Her greasy petticoat and gown , In which she rambled up and down , She left the Merchant's Son in lieu , Her bag of bred and bottle too . Down stairs like any spark she goes , Five guineas to the host she throws , And smiling then she went away , And ne'er was herd of to this day . When he had took his long repose , He look'd about and missed his clothes ; And saw her rags lie in the room , How he did storm , nay fret and fume . Yet wanting clothes and friends in town , Her greasy petticoat and gown He did put on , and mounted strait , Bemoaning his unhappy fate . You would have laugh'd to see the dress Which he was in , yet ne'ertheless , He homeward road , and often swore , He'd never kiss a Beggar more . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow-Lane , London . 