A NEW SONG Call'd Curling of the Hair . YOY Ladies all who are in Fashion ; Both here and every where'o , Who kills bright Beaus by Lovesick Passion By buckling of their Hair'o . Tal , la , etc The Ladies Maid will imitate , The Mistress in the Fair'o , The Footman with his Curling Irons , To Buckle and Curl her Hair'o . Tnl , la , etc There's Mistress Betty , a beautiful Lady , Her Fortune one Hundred a Year'o , She longs of the 'Squire , and begs of her mamy To Buckle and Curl her Hair'o . Tal , la , etc The Mantua maker and mddest Quaker , They all must have a Share'o , In hope's to get some Lover True . And charm some brisk young Hair'o . Tal , la , etc The Chemney Sweepers Daughter Sue , She swear's she'll drive up the Rear'o , And tho' she's neither Stocking nor Shoe , She'll Buckle and Curl her Hair'o . Tal , la , etc Te-re Rear , my Rump-Itches Te-re Rear , where'o ; Here and there and every where And among the Tuft of Hair'o . Tal , la , etc The Collier has a beautiful Daughter , She Swears she'll drive up the Rear'o . Tho' she has not a Smock to cover her garter She'll Buckle and Curl her Hair'o . Tal , la , etc There's Huge Matees and Sugar Loaf Caps With nice Clock Stockings a Pair'o ; And Hoops that are of a Monstrous size , I long to stick a Pin there'o . Tal , la , etc I've god never a Penny of Money , Nor never a Smock to wear'o ; Nor never a Rag to cover my C ------ But one poor Tuft of Hair'o . Tal , la , etc My Daddy left me twice Ten Pounds , My Mammy a Horse and a Mair'o , But never a lad that ever I found , Was able to Curl my Hair'o . Tal , la , etc FINIS . A NEW SONG Call'd Curling of the Hair . YOY Ladies all who are in Fashion ; Both here and every where'o , Who kills bright Beaus by Lovesick Passion By buckling of their Hair'o . Tal , la , etc The Ladies Maid will imitate , The Mistress in the Fair'o , The Footman with his Curling Irons , To Buckle and Curl her Hair'o . Tnl , la , etc There's Mistress Betty , a beautiful Lady , Her Fortune one Hundred a Year'o , She longs of the 'Squire , and begs of her mamy To Buckle and Curl her Hair'o . Tal , la , etc The Mantua maker and mddest Quaker , They all must have a Share'o , In hope's to get some Lover True . And charm some brisk young Hair'o . Tal , la , etc The Chemney Sweepers Daughter Sue , She swear's she'll drive up the Rear'o , And tho' she's neither Stocking nor Shoe , She'll Buckle and Curl her Hair'o . Tal , la , etc Te-re Rear , my Rump-Itches Te-re Rear , where'o ; Here and there and every where And among the Tuft of Hair'o . Tal , la , etc The Collier has a beautiful Daughter , She Swears she'll drive up the Rear'o . Tho' she has not a Smock to cover her garter She'll Buckle and Curl her Hair'o . Tal , la , etc There's Huge Matees and Sugar Loaf Caps With nice Clock Stockings a Pair'o ; And Hoops that are of a Monstrous size , I long to stick a Pin there'o . Tal , la , etc I've god never a Penny of Money , Nor never a Smock to wear'o ; Nor never a Rag to cover my C ------ But one poor Tuft of Hair'o . Tal , la , etc My Daddy left me twice Ten Pounds , My Mammy a Horse and a Mair'o , But never a lad that ever I found , Was able to Curl my Hair'o . Tal , la , etc FINIS . 