The languishing Husband . YOU married Men and Bachelors , Give Ear to my Ditty , In opes to move your Hearts Into a strain of Pity . For you my Love I have lost , And I can't tell where to find her , But since she is gone let her go , And never more will mind her . I had a Pervese froward wife , And with her was tormented , But now from me she is gone away , I'll strive to be contented : We never did agree where she was , I vow I do not flatter , If would give all the world , If I could but come at her . I by chance to the Alehouse went There to spend a Penny , She made the Mugs and Glasses fly And then abus'd my Friends , Sir ; She had a Tongue most loudly hung , Like to great Tom of Lincoln , You might hear her found five miles round Pray tell me what you think on . When first I to England came , She sent to me a Letter , In Hope's that I would come to her , But she was never the better : I pushed off the Boat with the bottom out Resolving not to flatter ; Let her live or die , sink or swim , I never would be at her . I had her Grave made deep and wide That she might lie easy , I cry'd a little for Fashion Sake , Although with sorrow seiz'd ; There was rung and fill drink and The Night that she was buried , And for the time to come again , I'll never more be married . Cupid's Recruiting Sergeant . RECEPATIVE . FROM Paphos' isle , so fam'd of old , I come , to raise Recruits with merry Fife and Drum ; The Queen of Beauty here , by me , invites Each Nymph and swain to taste the sweet Delights : Obey the call , and seek the happy Land , Where Captain Cupid bears the sole Command . AIR . the Nymphs and you Swains , who are youthful and gay , Attend to the Call , and be blessed while you may ; Lads and Lassies hither come to the found of the Drum , I have Treasure in Store which you never have seen ; Then haste , let us rove to the Island of Love , Where Cupid is Captain , and Venus the Queen . Each Nymph of sixteen , who would fain be a Wife , Shall soon have a Partner to bless her for Life ; Then Lasses hither come to the Found of the Drum , I have Sweethearts in Store , such as never were seen ; Haste , haste , let us rove to Island of Love , Where Cupid is Captain , and Venus the Queen . Wou'd a Swain but be blessed with a Nymph to his Mind Let him enter my List , and his wish he shall find ; I can bless him for Life with a kind loving Wife , More beautiful far than was Nymph ever seen , Then haste , let us rove to the Island of Love , Where Cupid is Captain , and Venus the Queen - In Paphos we know not of Discord or Strife , Each Nymph and each Swain may be happy for Life In Transport and Joy we each Moment employ , And taste such Delights as were never yet seen ; Then haste , let us rove to the Island of Love , Where Cupid is Captain , and Venus the Queen . The wandering Black bird . I am weary weary wandering , All day and all night , Since my blackbird has left me , And has taken his fligh He flies where he pleases , And proves cruel still , And leaves me in the desert , For wild birds to kill . He wanders all day , And he comes home at night , And when I am asleeping , He stands in my sighs He often does chide me , Whom I do adore , And he tells 'tis a folly , And that grieves me more . Young Johnny is my true love , If you know his Name , He often times told her , My labour was in vain ; But had he so told me , Before he'd me drew , I had never done the thing , Which has caus'd me to rue . My love's gone a sailing , Unto the isle of man , And I fear he ne'er will prosper , For wronging poor Nan : God send him safe , And a fair wind to blow , And I hope he will marry me , Before he does go . My love's gone a wandering , And I cannot tell where , In the grove and the deserts , And leaves me in despair . I hope you'll be with me , Before it be long , For I am weary with wandering Since my true love is gone . Farewell , my dearest , farewell , Since I lov'd in vain : For my heart is oppressed , With grief to complain : Of all men in the world , I love him the best , And I hope that in heaven , His sweet soul may be blessed . The languishing Husband . YOU married Men and Bachelors , Give Ear to my Ditty , In opes to move your Hearts Into a strain of Pity . For you my Love I have lost , And I can't tell where to find her , But since she is gone let her go , And never more will mind her . I had a Pervese froward wife , And with her was tormented , But now from me she is gone away , I'll strive to be contented : We never did agree where she was , I vow I do not flatter , If would give all the world , If I could but come at her . I by chance to the Alehouse went There to spend a Penny , She made the Mugs and Glasses fly And then abus'd my Friends , Sir ; She had a Tongue most loudly hung , Like to great Tom of Lincoln , You might hear her found five miles round Pray tell me what you think on . When first I to England came , She sent to me a Letter , In Hope's that I would come to her , But she was never the better : I pushed off the Boat with the bottom out Resolving not to flatter ; Let her live or die , sink or swim , I never would be at her . I had her Grave made deep and wide That she might lie easy , I cry'd a little for Fashion Sake , Although with sorrow seiz'd ; There was rung and fill drink and The Night that she was buried , And for the time to come again , I'll never more be married . Cupid's Recruiting Sergeant . RECEPATIVE . FROM Paphos' isle , so fam'd of old , I come , to raise Recruits with merry Fife and Drum ; The Queen of Beauty here , by me , invites Each Nymph and swain to taste the sweet Delights : Obey the call , and seek the happy Land , Where Captain Cupid bears the sole Command . AIR . the Nymphs and you Swains , who are youthful and gay , Attend to the Call , and be blessed while you may ; Lads and Lassies hither come to the found of the Drum , I have Treasure in Store which you never have seen ; Then haste , let us rove to the Island of Love , Where Cupid is Captain , and Venus the Queen . Each Nymph of sixteen , who would fain be a Wife , Shall soon have a Partner to bless her for Life ; Then Lasses hither come to the Found of the Drum , I have Sweethearts in Store , such as never were seen ; Haste , haste , let us rove to Island of Love , Where Cupid is Captain , and Venus the Queen . Wou'd a Swain but be blessed with a Nymph to his Mind Let him enter my List , and his wish he shall find ; I can bless him for Life with a kind loving Wife , More beautiful far than was Nymph ever seen , Then haste , let us rove to the Island of Love , Where Cupid is Captain , and Venus the Queen - In Paphos we know not of Discord or Strife , Each Nymph and each Swain may be happy for Life In Transport and Joy we each Moment employ , And taste such Delights as were never yet seen ; Then haste , let us rove to the Island of Love , Where Cupid is Captain , and Venus the Queen . The wandering Black bird . I am weary weary wandering , All day and all night , Since my blackbird has left me , And has taken his fligh He flies where he pleases , And proves cruel still , And leaves me in the desert , For wild birds to kill . He wanders all day , And he comes home at night , And when I am asleeping , He stands in my sighs He often does chide me , Whom I do adore , And he tells 'tis a folly , And that grieves me more . Young Johnny is my true love , If you know his Name , He often times told her , My labour was in vain ; But had he so told me , Before he'd me drew , I had never done the thing , Which has caus'd me to rue . My love's gone a sailing , Unto the isle of man , And I fear he ne'er will prosper , For wronging poor Nan : God send him safe , And a fair wind to blow , And I hope he will marry me , Before he does go . My love's gone a wandering , And I cannot tell where , In the grove and the deserts , And leaves me in despair . I hope you'll be with me , Before it be long , For I am weary with wandering Since my true love is gone . Farewell , my dearest , farewell , Since I lov'd in vain : For my heart is oppressed , With grief to complain : Of all men in the world , I love him the best , And I hope that in heaven , His sweet soul may be blessed . 