A New SONG call'd HARK to WINCHESTER , or , The Yorkshire Volunteers Farewell to the good Folks of Stockton . Tune , Push about the Jorum . you Stockton Lads and Lasses too , Come listen to my story , A dismal tale , because its true , I've now to lay before You : We must away , our Rout is come , We scarce refrain from tears , Oh , Shrill shrieks the Fife , rough roars the Drum , March , Yorkshire Volunteers , O. Fall lal lal la ral . Yet ere we part , my Comrades say , Come STOCKHORE you're the Poet , If e're you'd pen a grateful lay , 'Tis now the time to show it ; Such usage kind in these good Towns , We've met from Age and Youth , Sirs , Accept our heart-felt Thanks , and once A Poet sings the Truth , Sirs . Fal lal , etc the Lasses too , of all I see , Ye're fairest in the Nation , Sweet buds of Beauty's blooming tree , The top of the Creation ; Full many of our Lads I ween , Have god good Wives and true , Sirs , I wonder what our Leaders mean , They have not done so too , Sirs . Fal lal , etc Perhaps , -- but hark ! the thund'ring Drum , From Love to Arms is beating , Our Country calls , we come , we come , Great GEORGE's praise repeating ; He's great and good , long may he here , Reign every Bliss possessing , And long may each true Volunteer , Behold him Britain's blessing . Fal lal , etc Our valiant EARL shall led us on , The nearest way to Glory , Bright Honour hails her darling Son , And Fame records his Story : DUNDAS commands upon our Lists The second , tho' on Earth , Sirs , No one he's second to , exists , For Courage , Sense and Worth , Sirs . Fal lal , etc No venal Muse before your view , Next sets a Veteran bold , Sirs , The praise to Merit justly due , From PAUL she cannot hold , Sirs , His Valour oft has boar the test , In War he's brisk and handy , His private Virtues stand confessed , In short he's quite the DANDY . Fal lal , etc Brave MACKARELL heads his Grenadiers , They're just the Lads to do it ; And should the Dons , or lank Monsieurs Come here , he'll make them rue it . He'll roar his Thunder , make them flee , With a row , row , row , row , rara , And do them o'er by Land , -- at Sea As RODNEY did LANGARA . Fal lal , etc Young THOMPSON and his Lads so light Of foot , with Hearts of Steel , Oh , His Country's cause shall nobly fight , And make her Foes to feel , O. For , shou'd the Frog-fed sons of Gaul , Come capering a la francois , My Lads , said he , we'll teach them all , The Light Bob Country Dance , A. Fall lal , etc Our Leaders ALL , so brave and bold , Shou'd I in Verse recite , A , A baggage Wagon wou'd not hold , The Songs that I cou'd write , A , Their Deeds so great , their Words so mild , Oh take our worst Commander , And to him Caesar was a Child , And so was Alexander . Fal lal , etc Such Men as these we'll follow thro' The World , and brave all Danger , Each Volunteer is firm and true , His Heart's to Fear a Stranger ; Good Folks Farewell , God bless the King , With Angels centry o'er him , Now , Hark! to Winchester , we'll sing , And push about the Jorum . Fal lal lal la ral . Stockton ; Printed for the Author Herbert Stockhore , Private in Earl Fauconberg's Yorkshire North Riding Volunteers . A New SONG call'd HARK to WINCHESTER , or , The Yorkshire Volunteers Farewell to the good Folks of Stockton . Tune , Push about the Jorum . you Stockton Lads and Lasses too , Come listen to my story , A dismal tale , because its true , I've now to lay before You : We must away , our Rout is come , We scarce refrain from tears , Oh , Shrill shrieks the Fife , rough roars the Drum , March , Yorkshire Volunteers , O. Fall lal lal la ral . Yet ere we part , my Comrades say , Come STOCKHORE you're the Poet , If e're you'd pen a grateful lay , 'Tis now the time to show it ; Such usage kind in these good Towns , We've met from Age and Youth , Sirs , Accept our heart-felt Thanks , and once A Poet sings the Truth , Sirs . Fal lal , etc the Lasses too , of all I see , Ye're fairest in the Nation , Sweet buds of Beauty's blooming tree , The top of the Creation ; Full many of our Lads I ween , Have god good Wives and true , Sirs , I wonder what our Leaders mean , They have not done so too , Sirs . Fal lal , etc Perhaps , -- but hark ! the thund'ring Drum , From Love to Arms is beating , Our Country calls , we come , we come , Great GEORGE's praise repeating ; He's great and good , long may he here , Reign every Bliss possessing , And long may each true Volunteer , Behold him Britain's blessing . Fal lal , etc Our valiant EARL shall led us on , The nearest way to Glory , Bright Honour hails her darling Son , And Fame records his Story : DUNDAS commands upon our Lists The second , tho' on Earth , Sirs , No one he's second to , exists , For Courage , Sense and Worth , Sirs . Fal lal , etc No venal Muse before your view , Next sets a Veteran bold , Sirs , The praise to Merit justly due , From PAUL she cannot hold , Sirs , His Valour oft has boar the test , In War he's brisk and handy , His private Virtues stand confessed , In short he's quite the DANDY . Fal lal , etc Brave MACKARELL heads his Grenadiers , They're just the Lads to do it ; And should the Dons , or lank Monsieurs Come here , he'll make them rue it . He'll roar his Thunder , make them flee , With a row , row , row , row , rara , And do them o'er by Land , -- at Sea As RODNEY did LANGARA . Fal lal , etc Young THOMPSON and his Lads so light Of foot , with Hearts of Steel , Oh , His Country's cause shall nobly fight , And make her Foes to feel , O. For , shou'd the Frog-fed sons of Gaul , Come capering a la francois , My Lads , said he , we'll teach them all , The Light Bob Country Dance , A. Fall lal , etc Our Leaders ALL , so brave and bold , Shou'd I in Verse recite , A , A baggage Wagon wou'd not hold , The Songs that I cou'd write , A , Their Deeds so great , their Words so mild , Oh take our worst Commander , And to him Caesar was a Child , And so was Alexander . Fal lal , etc Such Men as these we'll follow thro' The World , and brave all Danger , Each Volunteer is firm and true , His Heart's to Fear a Stranger ; Good Folks Farewell , God bless the King , With Angels centry o'er him , Now , Hark! to Winchester , we'll sing , And push about the Jorum . Fal lal lal la ral . Stockton ; Printed for the Author Herbert Stockhore , Private in Earl Fauconberg's Yorkshire North Riding Volunteers . 