A NEW SONG . I . you Lovers of Physic , come lend me your Ear , All disinterested , I pray you draw near , My Tale's of Doctor and of a Professor , The first a skill'd Man , the last and Oppressor . Down ; down -- down , dery , down . II Our worthy Professor ( whom few can excel ) Is a Spreader of Calumny , greedy as Hell , His principal Study is hoarding of Pelf , . And ne'er does and Actium but tends to himself . Dery down . III . This Gown-man so noted , by silly , mean Lies , Attack'd here a Stranger for curing of Eyes , A Subject on which he himself ne'er spoke Sense , Tho' he Lectur'd on't yearly for gaining of Pence . Dery down . IV. He began on the Doctor's Arrival to smell , ( For join'd with his Greed he is cunning and fell ) That a Rival so bright , who no Secret did hide , Might quickly eclipse a few Grains of his Pride . Dery down . V. To ward off this Blow , from Morning to Night , Thus accosted his Mates , 'and said it was right 'To discourage a Man of such Learning and Parts , 'Because prejudicial to Master's of Arts. Dery down . VI . 'You know we can teach , when our Students have Clink , 'But those of toom Pockets can't learn ( as we think ) 'If they want but a Shilling of our common Fee , 'We send them a-packing , to our Class they're not free . Dery down . VII . 'Ye cannot forget , ev'n a Friend of our own , 'A Brother by Trade , well skill'd , of Renown , 'Was debarr'd a Dissection , he intended to make , 'At my Instigation , lest my Trade it should break . Dery down . VIII . 'Is it fair that a Stranger go off with our Wealth ? 'Let the Blind and Blear-ey'd be depriv'd of their Health 'Far rather , than that it shou'd ever be said , 'That Our College , so famous , wants Skill in the Trade . Dery down . IX . 'Our Noble Infirmary , built at great Cost , 'By the Bounty of those who love the Poor most . 'Shall never be fill'd for their Use , by this Man , 'For there I shall swagger , let 'em do what then can . ' Dery down . X. And thus our Professor , possess'd with Envy , Spreads Stories about , of this and that Eye As hurt by the Doctor , who truly did cure ; Beware then , my Friends , of what comes from his Lure . Dery down XI . But great Doctor Taylor thou neat-handed Man , Judge not of our Nation by this single one , For those of the College who do you oppose , Are but such the Professor can led by the Nose XII . Let those do their best by Libels in Print , The Men of found Sense will ne'er take the Hit To condemn you at Random , not knowing the [ u ] They'll leave that to the College , those Wits of [ ? ] XIII . Much more I cou'd say , as the helpless do groan , Depriv'd of their House that's truly their own , What Grudge must the Donors retain in their Breast To see it lock'd up ; and the Poor thus oppressed . Dery do [ wn ] XIV . But the rest I'll refer 'till the Doctor is gone , Then with Grief and with Tears we'll be making our Moan ; When none of the Faculty dare use the Needle , Tho' they Strutted thro' France , and there danc'd to a Fiddle . Dery down . A NEW SONG . I . you Lovers of Physic , come lend me your Ear , All disinterested , I pray you draw near , My Tale's of Doctor and of a Professor , The first a skill'd Man , the last and Oppressor . Down ; down -- down , dery , down . II Our worthy Professor ( whom few can excel ) Is a Spreader of Calumny , greedy as Hell , His principal Study is hoarding of Pelf , . And ne'er does and Actium but tends to himself . Dery down . III . This Gown-man so noted , by silly , mean Lies , Attack'd here a Stranger for curing of Eyes , A Subject on which he himself ne'er spoke Sense , Tho' he Lectur'd on't yearly for gaining of Pence . Dery down . IV. He began on the Doctor's Arrival to smell , ( For join'd with his Greed he is cunning and fell ) That a Rival so bright , who no Secret did hide , Might quickly eclipse a few Grains of his Pride . Dery down . V. To ward off this Blow , from Morning to Night , Thus accosted his Mates , 'and said it was right 'To discourage a Man of such Learning and Parts , 'Because prejudicial to Master's of Arts. Dery down . VI . 'You know we can teach , when our Students have Clink , 'But those of toom Pockets can't learn ( as we think ) 'If they want but a Shilling of our common Fee , 'We send them a-packing , to our Class they're not free . Dery down . VII . 'Ye cannot forget , ev'n a Friend of our own , 'A Brother by Trade , well skill'd , of Renown , 'Was debarr'd a Dissection , he intended to make , 'At my Instigation , lest my Trade it should break . Dery down . VIII . 'Is it fair that a Stranger go off with our Wealth ? 'Let the Blind and Blear-ey'd be depriv'd of their Health 'Far rather , than that it shou'd ever be said , 'That Our College , so famous , wants Skill in the Trade . Dery down . IX . 'Our Noble Infirmary , built at great Cost , 'By the Bounty of those who love the Poor most . 'Shall never be fill'd for their Use , by this Man , 'For there I shall swagger , let 'em do what then can . ' Dery down . X. And thus our Professor , possess'd with Envy , Spreads Stories about , of this and that Eye As hurt by the Doctor , who truly did cure ; Beware then , my Friends , of what comes from his Lure . Dery down XI . But great Doctor Taylor thou neat-handed Man , Judge not of our Nation by this single one , For those of the College who do you oppose , Are but such the Professor can led by the Nose XII . Let those do their best by Libels in Print , The Men of found Sense will ne'er take the Hit To condemn you at Random , not knowing the [ u ] They'll leave that to the College , those Wits of [ ? ] XIII . Much more I cou'd say , as the helpless do groan , Depriv'd of their House that's truly their own , What Grudge must the Donors retain in their Breast To see it lock'd up ; and the Poor thus oppressed . Dery do [ wn ] XIV . But the rest I'll refer 'till the Doctor is gone , Then with Grief and with Tears we'll be making our Moan ; When none of the Faculty dare use the Needle , Tho' they Strutted thro' France , and there danc'd to a Fiddle . Dery down . 