The True Lovers Tragedy : Being and Incomparable Ballad of Gentleman and his Lady . that both Killed themselves for Love , under the disguised Names of Philander and Phillis , Phillis , Philanders scatter'd Garment finds And thinks him slave , for which with Fate she joins , And with her Fatal Poniard striketh Deep , As Life no longer can its Station keep ; The Crimson Streams so fast flowed from her Veins , Yet Dying , of her Loves dear Loss Complains : No sooner Death had closed her Starry Eyes , But her Return'd Philander her espies ; And finding that for him she lost her Breath , He kills himself , and Crowns his Love with death . To a New Playhouse Tune : Or , Oh! cruel bloody Fate . AH Cruel Bloody Fate , What canst thou now doe more ! Alas 'tis now too late , Philander to Restore ; Why shou'd the Heavenly Powers persuade Poor Mortals to believe , That they guard us here , And reward us there , Yet all our joys deceive , Her Poigniard then she took , and held it in her hand , Then with a Dying look , cry'd ! thus I Fate Command : Philander ! ah my Love I come , to meet thy Shade below ; Ah! I come she cry'd , with a Wound so wide , There needs no second Blow . Then Purple Waves of Blood , ran streaming down the Floor , Unmov'd she saw the Flood , and bless'd her Dying hour ; Philander , and Philander still , the Bleeding Phillis cry'd : She Wept a while , and she forc'd a Smile , then Clos'd her Eyes , and Dy'd . Upon the Blushing Ground , stain'd with her Virgin Blood , She lay in Death's deep Swoon , close by the Murmuring Flood : Which for the Lovely Phillis sake , complain'd of cruel Fate , Which had caus'd such care , as had wrought despair , I weep it to Relate . When lo Philander came , with joy to seek his love , And her dear Promise claim , while Moon-beams , from above , Did twinkle through the thickest shade , and guild the flowery plain , When he espys , And ah Phillis cries , ( Not thinking she was slave . ) Arise , arise , from Earth , shake off this dull repose , Phillis my only mirth , to thee Philander bows : Sooner I would have come to thee , had not a Lion stay'd , My course to fight , For which exploit , he Lifeless now is made . Ah me , what's this ! she's Cold , you Gods quite Breathless too - O Death durst thou enfold , this beauty's not thy due Alas ! O cruel Fate he cry'd , by her own hand , 'tis well , O the dismal blow , That did overthrow , by Heav'ns for me she fell . Behold my Germents dy'd , in Phillis precious blood , Which falling from my side , made her suppose me dead : And therefore fell for love of me , ah cruel destiny , And shall Philander Live to wander , No! by the powers i'le die ? I come my Phillis now , prepare ! for in thy Arms , I will perform my vow , a sleep like death now charm [ s ] : These Ciprus wreaths our Cr [ oh ] wns shall be we'l Triumph over dea [ th ] From thy fair Lip , i'le Nectar Sip , Even with my latest breath . With that his Fatal Sword , he Plunged in his breast , And sigh'd with dying words O now I am at res Now Phillis , now for ever mine , Fate now no more shall part , Then through the Wound Life passage found , and left the Lovers Heart . FINIS : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Hospi - tal-Gate , in West-smithfiel [ worser ] . The True Lovers Tragedy : Being and Incomparable Ballad of Gentleman and his Lady . that both Killed themselves for Love , under the disguised Names of Philander and Phillis , Phillis , Philanders scatter'd Garment finds And thinks him slave , for which with Fate she joins , And with her Fatal Poniard striketh Deep , As Life no longer can its Station keep ; The Crimson Streams so fast flowed from her Veins , Yet Dying , of her Loves dear Loss Complains : No sooner Death had closed her Starry Eyes , But her Return'd Philander her espies ; And finding that for him she lost her Breath , He kills himself , and Crowns his Love with death . To a New Playhouse Tune : Or , Oh! cruel bloody Fate . AH Cruel Bloody Fate , What canst thou now doe more ! Alas 'tis now too late , Philander to Restore ; Why shou'd the Heavenly Powers persuade Poor Mortals to believe , That they guard us here , And reward us there , Yet all our joys deceive , Her Poigniard then she took , and held it in her hand , Then with a Dying look , cry'd ! thus I Fate Command : Philander ! ah my Love I come , to meet thy Shade below ; Ah! I come she cry'd , with a Wound so wide , There needs no second Blow . Then Purple Waves of Blood , ran streaming down the Floor , Unmov'd she saw the Flood , and bless'd her Dying hour ; Philander , and Philander still , the Bleeding Phillis cry'd : She Wept a while , and she forc'd a Smile , then Clos'd her Eyes , and Dy'd . Upon the Blushing Ground , stain'd with her Virgin Blood , She lay in Death's deep Swoon , close by the Murmuring Flood : Which for the Lovely Phillis sake , complain'd of cruel Fate , Which had caus'd such care , as had wrought despair , I weep it to Relate . When lo Philander came , with joy to seek his love , And her dear Promise claim , while Moon-beams , from above , Did twinkle through the thickest shade , and guild the flowery plain , When he espys , And ah Phillis cries , ( Not thinking she was slave . ) Arise , arise , from Earth , shake off this dull repose , Phillis my only mirth , to thee Philander bows : Sooner I would have come to thee , had not a Lion stay'd , My course to fight , For which exploit , he Lifeless now is made . Ah me , what's this ! she's Cold , you Gods quite Breathless too - O Death durst thou enfold , this beauty's not thy due Alas ! O cruel Fate he cry'd , by her own hand , 'tis well , O the dismal blow , That did overthrow , by Heav'ns for me she fell . Behold my Germents dy'd , in Phillis precious blood , Which falling from my side , made her suppose me dead : And therefore fell for love of me , ah cruel destiny , And shall Philander Live to wander , No! by the powers i'le die ? I come my Phillis now , prepare ! for in thy Arms , I will perform my vow , a sleep like death now charm [ s ] : These Ciprus wreaths our Cr [ oh ] wns shall be we'l Triumph over dea [ th ] From thy fair Lip , i'le Nectar Sip , Even with my latest breath . With that his Fatal Sword , he Plunged in his breast , And sigh'd with dying words O now I am at res Now Phillis , now for ever mine , Fate now no more shall part , Then through the Wound Life passage found , and left the Lovers Heart . FINIS : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Hospi - tal-Gate , in West-smithfiel [ worser ] . 