The maidens reply to the Young men Resolution . Wherein she fits him in his kind , And lets him know her settled mind , She can as well live single and not marry As well as he without a wife can tarry . To the Tune of the Young men Resolution . COme prithee young man do not flout nor think that I do writ your leisure When for a husband I look out , I can have sweethearts at my pleasure : But for to fit you in your kind and let you know that I can tarry ; I'le tell you plain what you shall find and when I mean with you to marry . When young men do true hearted prove , and leave off their dissimulation When mountains in the water move , and peace shall be in every Nation : When Whale's in little dishes swim , and Castles on their backs can carry And slovens they go neat and trim , Oh [ tO ] hen my Love and I will marry . When women go upon their heads and butchers loose the sense of feeling ; When Papists throw away their beads and drunkards they do leave off reeling When Brewers are Protectors made , and in great winds away are hurried And painted whores leave off their trade O then my Love and isle be married . When Cherries grow on thistle tops , and Roses are on nettles budding , When women hate good sugar-sops and hung [ r ] y dogs will eat no pudding : When Gold is strewn about the streets and lies from June till January , And every Coward kills all he meets Oh then my Love and I will marry . WHen Ladies cease to long for fruit , and Cavaliers do all turn Quakers , When fools do learned men confute and Cobblers they turn Comfit-makers : When Art & Ignorance agree and live together & not vary And Peasecods grow on every tree , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When timorous Hearts the Hounds pursue and Partridges kills Hawks by 'th dozen : When Newgate thieves do all prove true and quite forsake to cheat and cozen , When Landlors do refuse their Rend , and for the same they needs will tarry And when no Fish is eat in Lent , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When Christmas pies are out of date and good roast beef is out of season When Children do Plumb-pottage hate and Traitors they do love no treason When Usurers give away their gold and unthrifts they grow wise and wary , And them are young that once were old , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When pretty maids for sweethearts mourn , and women goes to men a wooing When Ice does in the water burn then there is like to be wise doing When it rains daggers double hatched , And Hay is made in February Or when the old one she is catched Oh then my Love and I will marry When Madam leaves to paint her face , and Vizard masks are out of fashion , When Courtiers they will wear no lace and froward folks are not in passion When we the French new fashins teach and send them over Charon's Ferry , And Ranters leave in tubs to preach O then my Love and I will marry . When wildgeese fly into Cooks shops , and says unto the Cooks come take me , And Larks do fallen as thick as hops into the pies & says come bake me When Beggars all turn Gentlemen and bags of Gold about them carry , Just at that time , and not till then , I mean with thee my Love to marry . Printed for J. Williamson at the Bible upon London Bridge . The maidens reply to the Young men Resolution . Wherein she fits him in his kind , And lets him know her settled mind , She can as well live single and not marry As well as he without a wife can tarry . To the Tune of the Young men Resolution . COme prithee young man do not flout nor think that I do writ your leisure When for a husband I look out , I can have sweethearts at my pleasure : But for to fit you in your kind and let you know that I can tarry ; I'le tell you plain what you shall find and when I mean with you to marry . When young men do true hearted prove , and leave off their dissimulation When mountains in the water move , and peace shall be in every Nation : When Whale's in little dishes swim , and Castles on their backs can carry And slovens they go neat and trim , Oh [ tO ] hen my Love and I will marry . When women go upon their heads and butchers loose the sense of feeling ; When Papists throw away their beads and drunkards they do leave off reeling When Brewers are Protectors made , and in great winds away are hurried And painted whores leave off their trade O then my Love and isle be married . When Cherries grow on thistle tops , and Roses are on nettles budding , When women hate good sugar-sops and hung [ r ] y dogs will eat no pudding : When Gold is strewn about the streets and lies from June till January , And every Coward kills all he meets Oh then my Love and I will marry . WHen Ladies cease to long for fruit , and Cavaliers do all turn Quakers , When fools do learned men confute and Cobblers they turn Comfit-makers : When Art & Ignorance agree and live together & not vary And Peasecods grow on every tree , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When timorous Hearts the Hounds pursue and Partridges kills Hawks by 'th dozen : When Newgate thieves do all prove true and quite forsake to cheat and cozen , When Landlors do refuse their Rend , and for the same they needs will tarry And when no Fish is eat in Lent , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When Christmas pies are out of date and good roast beef is out of season When Children do Plumb-pottage hate and Traitors they do love no treason When Usurers give away their gold and unthrifts they grow wise and wary , And them are young that once were old , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When pretty maids for sweethearts mourn , and women goes to men a wooing When Ice does in the water burn then there is like to be wise doing When it rains daggers double hatched , And Hay is made in February Or when the old one she is catched Oh then my Love and I will marry When Madam leaves to paint her face , and Vizard masks are out of fashion , When Courtiers they will wear no lace and froward folks are not in passion When we the French new fashins teach and send them over Charon's Ferry , And Ranters leave in tubs to preach O then my Love and I will marry . When wildgeese fly into Cooks shops , and says unto the Cooks come take me , And Larks do fallen as thick as hops into the pies & says come bake me When Beggars all turn Gentlemen and bags of Gold about them carry , Just at that time , and not till then , I mean with thee my Love to marry . Printed for J. Williamson at the Bible upon London Bridge . 