b Good Night and God be with you all Or the Neighbours Farewell To his FRIENDS . NOw come is my departing time , And here I may no longer stay , There is no kind Comrade of mine , But will desire I were away , But if that time will me permit , Which from your Company does call , And me enforceth for to flit , Good Night and God be with you all . For here I grant some time I spent In loving kind good Company , For all Offences I repent , And wishes now forgiven to be , What I have done for want of wit To Memory I'le not recall : I hope you are my Friends as yet , Good Night and God be with you all . Complementing I never lov'd , Not Talkative much for to be , And of Speeches a multitude , Becomes no Man of Quality . From Faith , Love , Peace and Unity , I wish none of us never fail , God grant us all Prosperity , Good Night and God be with you all . I wish that I might longer stay , To enjoy your Society ? The Lord to Bless you night and day , And still to be in your Company , No Vice nor iniquity , God grant none of you ever fail . Gods Blessing keep both you and me : Good Night and God be with you all . The Friends Reply . Most Loving Friend , God be thy guide , And never leave thy Company , And all things needful thee provide , And give thee all Prosperity ; We rather had thy Company , If thou wouldst have stay'd us among , We wish thee much Felicity . God grant that nothing do thee wrong . FINIS . b Good Night and God be with you all Or the Neighbours Farewell To his FRIENDS . NOw come is my departing time , And here I may no longer stay , There is no kind Comrade of mine , But will desire I were away , But if that time will me permit , Which from your Company does call , And me enforceth for to flit , Good Night and God be with you all . For here I grant some time I spent In loving kind good Company , For all Offences I repent , And wishes now forgiven to be , What I have done for want of wit To Memory I'le not recall : I hope you are my Friends as yet , Good Night and God be with you all . Complementing I never lov'd , Not Talkative much for to be , And of Speeches a multitude , Becomes no Man of Quality . From Faith , Love , Peace and Unity , I wish none of us never fail , God grant us all Prosperity , Good Night and God be with you all . I wish that I might longer stay , To enjoy your Society ? The Lord to Bless you night and day , And still to be in your Company , No Vice nor iniquity , God grant none of you ever fail . Gods Blessing keep both you and me : Good Night and God be with you all . The Friends Reply . Most Loving Friend , God be thy guide , And never leave thy Company , And all things needful thee provide , And give thee all Prosperity ; We rather had thy Company , If thou wouldst have stay'd us among , We wish thee much Felicity . God grant that nothing do thee wrong . FINIS . 