v THF HEROIC HISTORY OF GUY , Earl of Warwick . WRITTEN BY HUMPHERY CROUCH LONDON Printed for Jane Bell at the East end of Christ-Church . 1655. Vallant Guy bestirs his hands , The Dragon back did Shrink , The Giant Rumbo quaking stands : And knew not what to think . Guy gets the victory at last , Which made great Rumbo glad : He was full glad the fight was passed , For he before was sad : The greatfull Lion Guy did gree When he to him did go , And thankfully did lick his feet . Because He takes his leave once more and goes , Her pleasure to fulfil . He longs to be a dealing blows , To win more honour still , And through a Forist as he rides He meets a mighty Giant , Two yards at every step , he strides , For stronger then a Lion , Friend quoth the Giant , hast thou herd Of one they call him Guy Who all the Power of France , hath feared With acts of Chivelrie . And And when my Father h [ ears tO ] he truth , Take Phelice for thine own . Win honour by thy marshal hand , And by a Warlike life , When this I came to understand , Take Phelice for thy wife . Phelice I ask no more said he Call Guy a Coward Swain , [ If ] he refuse to Fight for thee , Thy love for to obtain , Oh woe to him that counts that good , That does procure his Care , Who wins a wife with loss of blood , Does buy his bargain deer . Yet while he hath a drop to bleed , Guy , will not jdle lie . Performing many a worthy deed , And acts of Chivelry . In France he prov'd himself a man . Unhorsed them one by one , He there Cast down both horse and man , And Fame and honour wone , He then to England comes a main . To see his Hearts delight , But Phelice sends him forth again , Sense he so well could fight , To fight for h [ e ] r he would not grutch . Whom he esteemed deer Because he loved her so much . No danger did he fear , No danger may he fear that str [ iv ] es , To win a Ladies love . And howsoever the bussines thrives , Obedient he must prove . A3 Ho v THF HEROIC HISTORY OF GUY , Earl of Warwick . WRITTEN BY HUMPHERY CROUCH LONDON Printed for Jane Bell at the East end of Christ-Church . 1655. Vallant Guy bestirs his hands , The Dragon back did Shrink , The Giant Rumbo quaking stands : And knew not what to think . Guy gets the victory at last , Which made great Rumbo glad : He was full glad the fight was passed , For he before was sad : The greatfull Lion Guy did gree When he to him did go , And thankfully did lick his feet . Because He takes his leave once more and goes , Her pleasure to fulfil . He longs to be a dealing blows , To win more honour still , And through a Forist as he rides He meets a mighty Giant , Two yards at every step , he strides , For stronger then a Lion , Friend quoth the Giant , hast thou herd Of one they call him Guy Who all the Power of France , hath feared With acts of Chivelrie . And And when my Father h [ ears tO ] he truth , Take Phelice for thine own . Win honour by thy marshal hand , And by a Warlike life , When this I came to understand , Take Phelice for thy wife . Phelice I ask no more said he Call Guy a Coward Swain , [ If ] he refuse to Fight for thee , Thy love for to obtain , Oh woe to him that counts that good , That does procure his Care , Who wins a wife with loss of blood , Does buy his bargain deer . Yet while he hath a drop to bleed , Guy , will not jdle lie . Performing many a worthy deed , And acts of Chivelry . In France he prov'd himself a man . Unhorsed them one by one , He there Cast down both horse and man , And Fame and honour wone , He then to England comes a main . To see his Hearts delight , But Phelice sends him forth again , Sense he so well could fight , To fight for h [ e ] r he would not grutch . Whom he esteemed deer Because he loved her so much . No danger did he fear , No danger may he fear that str [ iv ] es , To win a Ladies love . And howsoever the bussines thrives , Obedient he must prove . A3 Ho 