A Pleasant Old BALLAD to look upon , How Master Malt deals with every Man. MASTER Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the World began , I never in my Life knew any Man , Could match with Master Malt , Sir . I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding Stones , He pull'd his Flesh from off his Bones , You never saw the like , Sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a Flower , Beloved right well in ev'ry Bower , Thou canst not be missing one half Hour , You never , etc For laying of the Stones so close , Malt gave the Miller such a Copper-Nose , Saying , Thou and I will never be Foes , But unto thee I'll stick ; Sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his Horse he fell full low , He taught his Master Malt to know , You never , etc Our Hostess's Maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her Belly hide the same , You never , etc That when the Malt did work in her Head , Twice in a Day she would be sped , At Night she could not get to Bed , Nor scarce stand on her Feet , Sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said , That Malt he was a Thief ; But Malt gave him such a Dash i'th' Teeth , You never , etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and Ach all in his Head , His boon Comrades god him to Bed , For he was very Sick , Sir . The Carpenter came a Piece to Square . And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his Sides and Belly bore , And him full soundly beatrice , Sir . To the Fire he went well warm'd with Chips Malt bit him right betwixt the Lips , And made him Lame on both his Hips , You never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his Seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice , With his sharp Spanish Knife , Sir . But Malt came peeping through the Hall , And did his Brains so fiercely maul , He turned round and caught a Fallen , You never , etc The Weaver sitting at the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And made him to repulse the Room , Or throw him in a Dike , Sir . Whereat a Court some Weaver's kept , And to their Hostess boldly stepped , 'Till charg'd with double Pots they slept , You never , etc The Tinker took the Weaver's Part , Such furious Rage possessed his Heart , He took the Pot and drank a Quart , His Wits were very Ripe , Sir . For Malt the Upper-hand so god , He knew not how [ to pay the shot ] But Part without the Reckoning Pot , And found his Stomach sick , Sir . The Taylor came to grind his Shears , And shows to Malt what Spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by the Ears , And soar each other struck , Sir . And when his Pressing Iron was hight , He pressed the Board instead of a Coat , And sailed Home in a Featherbed Boat , You never , etc The Tinker walking round the Pan , But Malt much fear'd his Beer-mouth'd Can , Though he had conquer'd many a Man , And laid him in the Dyke , Sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With Malt to have a Bout or twain , 'Till he again was shot 'th' Brain , You never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said , He'd prove himself a Man , And laid at Malt 'till his Legs were gone , You never , etc The Sailor he did Curse and Ban , He bid the Boy go tap the Can , I'll have a bout with Malt anon , You never , etc Aboard they went to try the Match , And long they play'd at hope and catch , 'Till Malt bestow'd him under a Hatch , You never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his Throat was dry , And at Master Malt did fly , And furiously him struck , Sir . 'Till having laid at Malt apace , Great store of Blood was in his Face . And he was found in such a Case , You never , etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his Part did take , They bound him to the Good-Ale Stake , You never , etc Then Malt began to tell his Mind , And ply'd them with Beer , Ale , and Wine , They left Brick-Ax , Trowel , behind , They could not lay a Brick , Sir . Then came the Labourer in his Hood , And saw his two Master's how they stood , He took his Master Malt by the Hood , And swore he would him strike , Sir . Malt he ran , and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But Malt made him into the Mortar to leap , And there he fell a sleep , Sir , The Glover came to buy a Skin , Malt hit him right above the Chin ; Then Porter John came tumbling in , You never , etc And laid on Heads , and Arms , and Joints , Took away Gloves , and Gross of Points , And swore they'd pay him in Quarts and Pints , You never , etc Thus of my Song I'll make and End , And pray my Host to be my Friend , To give me some Drink , or Money to spend , [ For Malt and I am quiet Sir ] A Pleasant Old BALLAD to look upon , How Master Malt deals with every Man. MASTER Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the World began , I never in my Life knew any Man , Could match with Master Malt , Sir . I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding Stones , He pull'd his Flesh from off his Bones , You never saw the like , Sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a Flower , Beloved right well in ev'ry Bower , Thou canst not be missing one half Hour , You never , etc For laying of the Stones so close , Malt gave the Miller such a Copper-Nose , Saying , Thou and I will never be Foes , But unto thee I'll stick ; Sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his Horse he fell full low , He taught his Master Malt to know , You never , etc Our Hostess's Maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her Belly hide the same , You never , etc That when the Malt did work in her Head , Twice in a Day she would be sped , At Night she could not get to Bed , Nor scarce stand on her Feet , Sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said , That Malt he was a Thief ; But Malt gave him such a Dash i'th' Teeth , You never , etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and Ach all in his Head , His boon Comrades god him to Bed , For he was very Sick , Sir . The Carpenter came a Piece to Square . And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his Sides and Belly bore , And him full soundly beatrice , Sir . To the Fire he went well warm'd with Chips Malt bit him right betwixt the Lips , And made him Lame on both his Hips , You never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his Seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice , With his sharp Spanish Knife , Sir . But Malt came peeping through the Hall , And did his Brains so fiercely maul , He turned round and caught a Fallen , You never , etc The Weaver sitting at the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And made him to repulse the Room , Or throw him in a Dike , Sir . Whereat a Court some Weaver's kept , And to their Hostess boldly stepped , 'Till charg'd with double Pots they slept , You never , etc The Tinker took the Weaver's Part , Such furious Rage possessed his Heart , He took the Pot and drank a Quart , His Wits were very Ripe , Sir . For Malt the Upper-hand so god , He knew not how [ to pay the shot ] But Part without the Reckoning Pot , And found his Stomach sick , Sir . The Taylor came to grind his Shears , And shows to Malt what Spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by the Ears , And soar each other struck , Sir . And when his Pressing Iron was hight , He pressed the Board instead of a Coat , And sailed Home in a Featherbed Boat , You never , etc The Tinker walking round the Pan , But Malt much fear'd his Beer-mouth'd Can , Though he had conquer'd many a Man , And laid him in the Dyke , Sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With Malt to have a Bout or twain , 'Till he again was shot 'th' Brain , You never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said , He'd prove himself a Man , And laid at Malt 'till his Legs were gone , You never , etc The Sailor he did Curse and Ban , He bid the Boy go tap the Can , I'll have a bout with Malt anon , You never , etc Aboard they went to try the Match , And long they play'd at hope and catch , 'Till Malt bestow'd him under a Hatch , You never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his Throat was dry , And at Master Malt did fly , And furiously him struck , Sir . 'Till having laid at Malt apace , Great store of Blood was in his Face . And he was found in such a Case , You never , etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his Part did take , They bound him to the Good-Ale Stake , You never , etc Then Malt began to tell his Mind , And ply'd them with Beer , Ale , and Wine , They left Brick-Ax , Trowel , behind , They could not lay a Brick , Sir . Then came the Labourer in his Hood , And saw his two Master's how they stood , He took his Master Malt by the Hood , And swore he would him strike , Sir . Malt he ran , and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But Malt made him into the Mortar to leap , And there he fell a sleep , Sir , The Glover came to buy a Skin , Malt hit him right above the Chin ; Then Porter John came tumbling in , You never , etc And laid on Heads , and Arms , and Joints , Took away Gloves , and Gross of Points , And swore they'd pay him in Quarts and Pints , You never , etc Thus of my Song I'll make and End , And pray my Host to be my Friend , To give me some Drink , or Money to spend , [ For Malt and I am quiet Sir ] 