A pleasant new Ballad to sing both Even and Morn , Of the bloody murder of Sir John Barleycorn . To the tune of , Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country I herd a merry greeting : A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two noble men were meeting . And as they walked for to to sport , upon a Summer's day , Then with another nobleman they went to make a fray , Whose name was sir John Barley corn , he dwelled down in a dale : Who had a kinsman dwelled him nigh , they cal'd him Thomas Goodale . Another nam Richard Beer , was ready at that time : Another worthy Knight was there , cal'd sir William White Wine . Some of them fought in a Jack , some of them in a Can : But the chiefest in a black pot , like a worthy noble man . Sir John Barlycorne fought in a Boul , who won the victory : And made them all to fume and swear , that Barlycorne should die . Some said kill him , some said drown , others wished to hang him high : For as many as follow Barleycorn , shall surely beggars die . Then with a plough they plowed him up and thus they did devise , To bury him quick within the earth , and swore he should no rise . With harrows strong they combed him and burst clods on his head : A joyful banquet then was made , when Barleycorn was dead . He rested still within the earth , till rain from skies did fallen , Then he grew up in branches green , which soar amaz'd them all , And so grew up till Midsummer , which made them all afeard : For he was sprouted up on high , and god a goodly beard . Then he grew till S. James tide , his countenance was wan , For he was grown unto his strength , and thus became a man . With hooks and sickles keen , into the field they hide , They cut his legs off by the knees , and made him wounds full wide . Thus bloodily they cut him down from place where he did stand , And like a thief for treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind : And packed him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . And with a pitchfork that was sharp , they rend him to the heart , And like a thief for treason vile , they bound him in a cart . And tending him with weapons strong , unto the town they high , And straight they mowed him in a mow and there they let him lie . Then he lay groaning by the walls , till all his wounds were soar , At length they took him up again , and cast him on the floor . They hired two with holly clubs , to beatrice on him at once , They thwacked so on Barleycorn , that flesh fell from the bones . And then they took him up again , to fulfil women's mind They dusted and they sifted him , till he was almost blind . And then they knit him in a sack , which grieved him full soar : They steep'd him in a Fat , God wot , for three days space and more . Then they took him up again , and laid him for to dry , They cast him on a chamber floor , and swore that he should die . They rubbed and they stirred him , and still they did him turn , The Maltman swore that he should die , his body he would burn . They spitefully took him up again , and threw him on a Kill : So dried him there with fire hight , and thus they wrought their will . Then they brought him to the mill , and there they burst his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . Then they took him up again , and serv'd him worse then that , For with hight scalding liquour store they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot . that did him much harm , With threatening words they promised to beatrice him into barm . And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They took him straight out of the fat , and tunn'd him in a barrel , And then they set a tap to him , even thus his death begun : They drew out every dram of blood , while any drop would run . Some brought jacks upon their backs , some brought bill and bow , And every man his weapon had , Barleycorn to overthrow . When Sir John Good-ale herd of this , he came with much might , And there he took their tongues away , their legs or else their sighed . And thus Sir John in each respect so paid them all their hire , That some lay sleeping by the way . some tumbling in the mire . Some lay groaning by the walls , some in the streets down right , The best of them did scarcely know what they had done overnight . All you good wive - that brew good ale , God turn from you all teen : : But if you put too much water in , the devil put out your eyes . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. A new Ballad for you to look on , How Malt does deal with every one . To the tune of , Triumph and Joy . MAs Malt he is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never knew yet any man that could match with master Malt sir , I never knew any match Malt be once , The Miller with his grinding stones . He laid them so close that he crushed his bones , you never knew the like sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a flower . Thou art beloved in every bower , Thou canst not be missing one half hour . you never saw the like sir , For laying of his stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a copper nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee I stick sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from is horse he fell full low , He taught him his master Malt for to know , you never saw the like sir . Our hostess maid she was to blame , She stole master Malt away from her dame , And in her belly she hid the same , you never saw the like sir . So when the Malt did work in her head , Twice a day she would be sped , At night she could not go to bid , nor scarce stand on her feet sir . Then came in the master Smith , And said that Malt he was a thief . But Malt gave him such a dash in the teeth : you never saw the like sir . For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ache all in his head , The Smith was feign to get him to bed , for then he was very sick sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , He had Malt come out if he dare , He would empty his belly , & beatrice his sides bore that he know not where to fit sir . To fire he went with and arm full of chips , Malt hit him right between his lips , And made him lame in both his hips , you never saw the like sir , The Shoemaker sitting upon his seat With master Malt he began to fret , He said he would the knave so beatrice , you never saw the like sir . Malt peeped his head out of a hall , The shoemaker said , he would drink him up all , They tumled together till down they did fallen , you never saw the like sir . The Weaver being in his loom , He threatened master Malt to burn , When he had knit on to the thrum , you never saw the like sir . And such a Court some Weavers held , They would pay our hosts when they had felled , But when every one had his part and dealed , they knew not where to fit sir , The Tinker he took the Weavers part Because he is touching unto his Art , He took the pot and drank a quart , the world was very quick sir , Malt had of him his own desire , He made him tumble into the fire , [ And ] there he lost his burling ire , [ ? ] [ he ] hath not found it yet sir . The Taylor he came in to grind his shears , Malt and he were together by the ears , Great is the company Malt still rears , you never saw the like sir . For when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed a board in stead of a coat , And sailed home in a featherbed boat , you never saw the like sir , So then the Tinker did found his pan , Then said master Malt I must be gone , I am the good fellow that helpeth each one , you never saw the like sir . The Tinker then that he was feign , With Malt to have about or twaine , Malt hit him soar in every vain , you never saw the like sir . Then bespoke the Tinker anon He said he would prove himself a man , He laid on Malt till the bousse was gone , the Bung and the Tinker fell sick sir . The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bade the boy , go tap the can , I'll have about with Malt anan , you never saw the like sir . Aboard they went to try their match , And there they played at hop and catch , Malt bestowed him under the hatch , and made him keep the ship sir . Then came the Chapman traveling by , And said , My master's I will be w'ye , In deed mstaer Malt my mouth is dry , I will gnaw you with my teeth sir . The Chapman he laid on a pace , Till store of blood came in his face , But Malt brought A pleasant new Ballad to sing both Even and Morn , Of the bloody murder of Sir John Barleycorn . To the tune of , Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country I herd a merry greeting : A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two noble men were meeting . And as they walked for to to sport , upon a Summer's day , Then with another nobleman they went to make a fray , Whose name was sir John Barley corn , he dwelled down in a dale : Who had a kinsman dwelled him nigh , they cal'd him Thomas Goodale . Another nam Richard Beer , was ready at that time : Another worthy Knight was there , cal'd sir William White Wine . Some of them fought in a Jack , some of them in a Can : But the chiefest in a black pot , like a worthy noble man . Sir John Barlycorne fought in a Boul , who won the victory : And made them all to fume and swear , that Barlycorne should die . Some said kill him , some said drown , others wished to hang him high : For as many as follow Barleycorn , shall surely beggars die . Then with a plough they plowed him up and thus they did devise , To bury him quick within the earth , and swore he should no rise . With harrows strong they combed him and burst clods on his head : A joyful banquet then was made , when Barleycorn was dead . He rested still within the earth , till rain from skies did fallen , Then he grew up in branches green , which soar amaz'd them all , And so grew up till Midsummer , which made them all afeard : For he was sprouted up on high , and god a goodly beard . Then he grew till S. James tide , his countenance was wan , For he was grown unto his strength , and thus became a man . With hooks and sickles keen , into the field they hide , They cut his legs off by the knees , and made him wounds full wide . Thus bloodily they cut him down from place where he did stand , And like a thief for treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind : And packed him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . And with a pitchfork that was sharp , they rend him to the heart , And like a thief for treason vile , they bound him in a cart . And tending him with weapons strong , unto the town they high , And straight they mowed him in a mow and there they let him lie . Then he lay groaning by the walls , till all his wounds were soar , At length they took him up again , and cast him on the floor . They hired two with holly clubs , to beatrice on him at once , They thwacked so on Barleycorn , that flesh fell from the bones . And then they took him up again , to fulfil women's mind They dusted and they sifted him , till he was almost blind . And then they knit him in a sack , which grieved him full soar : They steep'd him in a Fat , God wot , for three days space and more . Then they took him up again , and laid him for to dry , They cast him on a chamber floor , and swore that he should die . They rubbed and they stirred him , and still they did him turn , The Maltman swore that he should die , his body he would burn . They spitefully took him up again , and threw him on a Kill : So dried him there with fire hight , and thus they wrought their will . Then they brought him to the mill , and there they burst his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . Then they took him up again , and serv'd him worse then that , For with hight scalding liquour store they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot . that did him much harm , With threatening words they promised to beatrice him into barm . And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They took him straight out of the fat , and tunn'd him in a barrel , And then they set a tap to him , even thus his death begun : They drew out every dram of blood , while any drop would run . Some brought jacks upon their backs , some brought bill and bow , And every man his weapon had , Barleycorn to overthrow . When Sir John Good-ale herd of this , he came with much might , And there he took their tongues away , their legs or else their sighed . And thus Sir John in each respect so paid them all their hire , That some lay sleeping by the way . some tumbling in the mire . Some lay groaning by the walls , some in the streets down right , The best of them did scarcely know what they had done overnight . All you good wive - that brew good ale , God turn from you all teen : : But if you put too much water in , the devil put out your eyes . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. A new Ballad for you to look on , How Malt does deal with every one . To the tune of , Triumph and Joy . MAs Malt he is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never knew yet any man that could match with master Malt sir , I never knew any match Malt be once , The Miller with his grinding stones . He laid them so close that he crushed his bones , you never knew the like sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a flower . Thou art beloved in every bower , Thou canst not be missing one half hour . you never saw the like sir , For laying of his stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a copper nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee I stick sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from is horse he fell full low , He taught him his master Malt for to know , you never saw the like sir . Our hostess maid she was to blame , She stole master Malt away from her dame , And in her belly she hid the same , you never saw the like sir . So when the Malt did work in her head , Twice a day she would be sped , At night she could not go to bid , nor scarce stand on her feet sir . Then came in the master Smith , And said that Malt he was a thief . But Malt gave him such a dash in the teeth : you never saw the like sir . For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ache all in his head , The Smith was feign to get him to bed , for then he was very sick sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , He had Malt come out if he dare , He would empty his belly , & beatrice his sides bore that he know not where to fit sir . To fire he went with and arm full of chips , Malt hit him right between his lips , And made him lame in both his hips , you never saw the like sir , The Shoemaker sitting upon his seat With master Malt he began to fret , He said he would the knave so beatrice , you never saw the like sir . Malt peeped his head out of a hall , The shoemaker said , he would drink him up all , They tumled together till down they did fallen , you never saw the like sir . The Weaver being in his loom , He threatened master Malt to burn , When he had knit on to the thrum , you never saw the like sir . And such a Court some Weavers held , They would pay our hosts when they had felled , But when every one had his part and dealed , they knew not where to fit sir , The Tinker he took the Weavers part Because he is touching unto his Art , He took the pot and drank a quart , the world was very quick sir , Malt had of him his own desire , He made him tumble into the fire , [ And ] there he lost his burling ire , [ ? ] [ he ] hath not found it yet sir . The Taylor he came in to grind his shears , Malt and he were together by the ears , Great is the company Malt still rears , you never saw the like sir . For when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed a board in stead of a coat , And sailed home in a featherbed boat , you never saw the like sir , So then the Tinker did found his pan , Then said master Malt I must be gone , I am the good fellow that helpeth each one , you never saw the like sir . The Tinker then that he was feign , With Malt to have about or twaine , Malt hit him soar in every vain , you never saw the like sir . Then bespoke the Tinker anon He said he would prove himself a man , He laid on Malt till the bousse was gone , the Bung and the Tinker fell sick sir . The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bade the boy , go tap the can , I'll have about with Malt anan , you never saw the like sir . Aboard they went to try their match , And there they played at hop and catch , Malt bestowed him under the hatch , and made him keep the ship sir . Then came the Chapman traveling by , And said , My master's I will be w'ye , In deed mstaer Malt my mouth is dry , I will gnaw you with my teeth sir . The Chapman he laid on a pace , Till store of blood came in his face , But Malt brought him in such a case , you never saw the like sir . The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his part did take , They bound Malt to the good-ale stake , you never saw the like sir , Then Malt began to tell his mind , And plide them with Ale , Beer and Wine , They left Brick-axe and trowel behind , they could not lay a brick sir . Then came the Labourer out with his hood , And saw his two master's how they stood , He took master Malt by the whood , and swore he would him strike sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But Malt cast him into the mortar heap , and there he fell a sleep sir . The Butcher came to buy a sheep : He said he would make Malt to creep , But Malt made him the cat to whip . you never saw the like sir . The Glover came to buy a skin , Malt hit him right above the chin , The pewter John came doubling in , you never saw the like sir . And laid on head , arms , and joints , Took away his gloves , and gross of points , And swore they had paid him in quarts and pints , you never saw the like sir . Thus of my song I will make and end , And pray my hostess to be my friend , To give me some drink now my money is spend then Malt and I am quit sir . FINIS . him in such a case , you never saw the like sir . The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his part did take , They bound Malt to the good-ale stake , you never saw the like sir , Then Malt began to tell his mind , And plide them with Ale , Beer and Wine , They left Brick-axe and trowel behind , they could not lay a brick sir . Then came the Labourer out with his hood , And saw his two master's how they stood , He took master Malt by the whood , and swore he would him strike sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But Malt cast him into the mortar heap , and there he fell a sleep sir . The Butcher came to buy a sheep : He said he would make Malt to creep , But Malt made him the cat to whip . you never saw the like sir . The Glover came to buy a skin , Malt hit him right above the chin , The pewter John came doubling in , you never saw the like sir . And laid on head , arms , and joints , Took away his gloves , and gross of points , And swore they had paid him in quarts and pints , you never saw the like sir . Thus of my song I will make and end , And pray my hostess to be my friend , To give me some drink now my money is spend then Malt and I am quit sir . FINIS . 