Robin Hood and the Bishop ; SHOWING [ Ho ] w Robin Hood went to and Old Woman's House , and changed Clothes with her , to escape from thee By - shop ; and how he robbed him of all his Gold , and made him Sing Mass. To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stranger . COme Gentlemen all , and listen a while , with a heigh down , down and a down , And a story I'le to you unfold , i'le tell you how Robin Hood served the Bishop When he robb'd him of his Gold . As it fell out of a Sunshining day , with a heigh , etc When Phoebus was in her prime , that Robin Hood that Archer good , In mirth would spend some time . And as he walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy , there was he aware of a proud Bishop , And all his company . O what shall I do , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc If the Bishop he does take me , no mercy he'l show me I know , [ B ] ut hanged shall I be . Then Robin was stout , and turn'd him about , with a heigh , etc And a little House there did he spy , and to and old Wife , for to save his life , He aloud began to cry . Why who art thou , said the old woman , with a heigh , etc Come tell it to me for good , I am and Out-Law , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . And yonders the Bishop and all his Men , with a heigh , etc And if that I taken be , then day and night , he'l work my spite , And hanged I shall be . If thou be Robin Hood , then said the Old woman , with a heigh , etc As thou dost seem to be , I'le for thee provide , and thee I will hide From the Bishop and his company . For I remember one Saturday night , with a heigh , etc Thou bought me both shoes and hose , therefore I'le provide , thy person to hide , And keep thee from thy Foes . Then give me soon thy Coat of Grey , with a heigh , etc And take thou the Mantle of Green , thy Spindle and twine unto me resign , And take thou my Arrows so keen . ANd when that Robin Hood was thus array'd with a heigh down , down a and down , He went straight to his company , with his Spindle and Twine , he oft look'd behind For the Bishop and his Company . O who is yonder quoath little John , with a heigh , etc That now comes over the Lee , and Arrow I will at her let fly , So like and old Witch looks she , Oh hold thy hand ; hold thy hand , said Robin then , with a heigh , etc And shoot not thy arrows so keen , I am Robin Hood , thy master good , And quickly it shall be seen . The Bishop he came to the old woman's house , with a heigh , etc And he called with furious mood come let me soon see , and bring unto me , That Traitor Robin Hood . The old woman he set on a milk white Steed with a heigh , etc Himself on a dapple Gray , and for joy he had god Robin Hood , He went laughing all the way . But as they were riding the Forest along , with a heigh , etc The Bishop he chanced for to see . a hundred brave bowmen bold , Stand under the [ Green ] - wood tree . O who is [ yonder the Bishop then said , with a heigh , etc That's ranging within yonder wood marry says the old woman I think it to be A man call'd Robin Hood . ] Why who are thou , the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc Which I have here with me ? why I am a woman , thou Cuckoldy Bishop , Lift up my Leg and see . Then woe is me the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc That ever I saw this day , he turned him about , but Robin Hood so stout Call'd him and bid him stay . Then Robin took hold of the Bishops horse , with a heigh , etc And ty'd him fast to a Tree , then little John smil'd his Master upon , For joy of his company . Robin Hood took his Mantle from's back , with a heigh , etc And spread it upon the ground , and out of the Bishops Portmantle he , Soon told five hundred pound . Now let him go , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc Said little John that may not be , for I vow I protest he shall sing us a Mass , Before that he go from me . Then Robin Hood took the Bishop by'th hand , with a heigh , etc And bound him fast to a Tree , and made him sing a Mass God-wot , To him and his Yeomanry . And when they brought him thorough the wood , with hey down , down and a down , And set him on his da [ pple Gray , ] and gave the Tail [ within his hand , ] And bade him for Ro [ been Hood prey . ] [ ? ] ners-Arms in Green-Arb [ ? ] ttle Old - [ ? ] Robin Hood and the Bishop ; SHOWING [ Ho ] w Robin Hood went to and Old Woman's House , and changed Clothes with her , to escape from thee By - shop ; and how he robbed him of all his Gold , and made him Sing Mass. To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stranger . COme Gentlemen all , and listen a while , with a heigh down , down and a down , And a story I'le to you unfold , i'le tell you how Robin Hood served the Bishop When he robb'd him of his Gold . As it fell out of a Sunshining day , with a heigh , etc When Phoebus was in her prime , that Robin Hood that Archer good , In mirth would spend some time . And as he walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy , there was he aware of a proud Bishop , And all his company . O what shall I do , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc If the Bishop he does take me , no mercy he'l show me I know , [ B ] ut hanged shall I be . Then Robin was stout , and turn'd him about , with a heigh , etc And a little House there did he spy , and to and old Wife , for to save his life , He aloud began to cry . Why who art thou , said the old woman , with a heigh , etc Come tell it to me for good , I am and Out-Law , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . And yonders the Bishop and all his Men , with a heigh , etc And if that I taken be , then day and night , he'l work my spite , And hanged I shall be . If thou be Robin Hood , then said the Old woman , with a heigh , etc As thou dost seem to be , I'le for thee provide , and thee I will hide From the Bishop and his company . For I remember one Saturday night , with a heigh , etc Thou bought me both shoes and hose , therefore I'le provide , thy person to hide , And keep thee from thy Foes . Then give me soon thy Coat of Grey , with a heigh , etc And take thou the Mantle of Green , thy Spindle and twine unto me resign , And take thou my Arrows so keen . ANd when that Robin Hood was thus array'd with a heigh down , down a and down , He went straight to his company , with his Spindle and Twine , he oft look'd behind For the Bishop and his Company . O who is yonder quoath little John , with a heigh , etc That now comes over the Lee , and Arrow I will at her let fly , So like and old Witch looks she , Oh hold thy hand ; hold thy hand , said Robin then , with a heigh , etc And shoot not thy arrows so keen , I am Robin Hood , thy master good , And quickly it shall be seen . The Bishop he came to the old woman's house , with a heigh , etc And he called with furious mood come let me soon see , and bring unto me , That Traitor Robin Hood . The old woman he set on a milk white Steed with a heigh , etc Himself on a dapple Gray , and for joy he had god Robin Hood , He went laughing all the way . But as they were riding the Forest along , with a heigh , etc The Bishop he chanced for to see . a hundred brave bowmen bold , Stand under the [ Green ] - wood tree . O who is [ yonder the Bishop then said , with a heigh , etc That's ranging within yonder wood marry says the old woman I think it to be A man call'd Robin Hood . ] Why who are thou , the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc Which I have here with me ? why I am a woman , thou Cuckoldy Bishop , Lift up my Leg and see . Then woe is me the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc That ever I saw this day , he turned him about , but Robin Hood so stout Call'd him and bid him stay . Then Robin took hold of the Bishops horse , with a heigh , etc And ty'd him fast to a Tree , then little John smil'd his Master upon , For joy of his company . Robin Hood took his Mantle from's back , with a heigh , etc And spread it upon the ground , and out of the Bishops Portmantle he , Soon told five hundred pound . Now let him go , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc Said little John that may not be , for I vow I protest he shall sing us a Mass , Before that he go from me . Then Robin Hood took the Bishop by'th hand , with a heigh , etc And bound him fast to a Tree , and made him sing a Mass God-wot , To him and his Yeomanry . And when they brought him thorough the wood , with hey down , down and a down , And set him on his da [ pple Gray , ] and gave the Tail [ within his hand , ] And bade him for Ro [ been Hood prey . ] [ ? ] ners-Arms in Green-Arb [ ? ] ttle Old - [ ? ] 