The Maidens Deligh OR , A dainty New Dialogue A Vapouring Gallant came the Maid to woo But she deni'd and said she would not do He proffered Ribbands , Gloves , and gay gold Rings But she refused all manner of such things . She said the greatest comfort of her life Was to be made some honest Tradesman's wife . To the Tune of , Behold the man with a glass in his hand . Or , The Mountebank of York . Man. I am a Jovial Bachelor , and free from care and strife , I nothing in the world do want and yet I want a wife : Therefore sweet Cupid guide me , and help me to a Love , That may both kind and loving be and honest to me prove . This known to all my neighbours I am one and twenty years old , And I have store and plenty of white Silver and read Gold , I have both goods and Cattle , I have both house and Land , I have my horse , my Hawk , my hound , and all things at command My hat is made of Beaver brave , my band of Flaunders Lace , My golden Belt about my neck , my person for to grace : My silver haunch Rapier does make a gallant show , And I am well accounted of by all that do me know , I have my knots of Ribbands brave along my Codpiece tids I have my golden fancies meet round at every side So high as is my pocket holes , deny it he that can Let all that sees me judge if I am not a proper man And now sweet Betty I am come a wooing unto thee , I prithee tell me out of hand if thou canst fancy me , If thou canst truly love me isle take thee to my wife , And thou shalt surely always live , A sweet contented life . I'le furnish thee with rare delights , as Ribbands and gold rings Perfumed Gloves and Bracelets fine and such like costly things With a Beaver hat and a taffety scarf and a new-fashion silken gown So thou shalt be as brave a Girl . as any in the town The second part , to the same Tune . Maid . GOod Sir I thank you kindly for your proffered courtesy But this I tell you plainly here in truth and verity That I shall never love you while I on earth remain Therefore forbear and say no more spend not your breath in vain . This not your cunning speeches that shall tempt me unto since For all your wealth and riches sir , I valve not a pin I will not wed a Prodigal though he be never so brave But if ever I marry while I live , some Tradesman I will have . A Prodigal will domineer , and soon consume his store , Which being gone he knows not how nor which way to get more But the brave resolved tradesman is free from such like sorrow If he wants money over night , hee'l work for more next morrow A spendthrift that consumeth and sells his land for gold Is very like to live in want or beg when he is old But the Noble-minded tradesman , his work goes forward still For he hath meat and drink enuf , and all things else at will . So now you honest Bachelors you partly know my mind If I can with a Tradesman meet , that will to me prove kind If that he takes me to his wife , I will him dearly love , Andile be as faithful unto him as is the Turtle Dove . I do confess gay Ribbons becomes the britches fine , And that the golden fancies will make the Codpiece shine But before I will be married to such a Prodigal I'll live a Maid and die a Maid , and thats a word for all . Man. Farewell you scornful minion I bid thee now adue I never do intend to come , again to trouble you , I'll rest my self contented until that I can find A wife that is more fitting and agreeable to my mind . Maid . Why then farewell proud Coxcome and this I tell thee plain Thy pride and thy ambition , I hold in much disdain , Rather then such a jack as thou , shouldst be my company keeper , I'll marry with a Beggar-man or with a Chimney-Sweeper . Finis . L.P. London Printed for Fran. Grove on Snow-hill . The Maidens Deligh OR , A dainty New Dialogue A Vapouring Gallant came the Maid to woo But she deni'd and said she would not do He proffered Ribbands , Gloves , and gay gold Rings But she refused all manner of such things . She said the greatest comfort of her life Was to be made some honest Tradesman's wife . To the Tune of , Behold the man with a glass in his hand . Or , The Mountebank of York . Man. I am a Jovial Bachelor , and free from care and strife , I nothing in the world do want and yet I want a wife : Therefore sweet Cupid guide me , and help me to a Love , That may both kind and loving be and honest to me prove . This known to all my neighbours I am one and twenty years old , And I have store and plenty of white Silver and read Gold , I have both goods and Cattle , I have both house and Land , I have my horse , my Hawk , my hound , and all things at command My hat is made of Beaver brave , my band of Flaunders Lace , My golden Belt about my neck , my person for to grace : My silver haunch Rapier does make a gallant show , And I am well accounted of by all that do me know , I have my knots of Ribbands brave along my Codpiece tids I have my golden fancies meet round at every side So high as is my pocket holes , deny it he that can Let all that sees me judge if I am not a proper man And now sweet Betty I am come a wooing unto thee , I prithee tell me out of hand if thou canst fancy me , If thou canst truly love me isle take thee to my wife , And thou shalt surely always live , A sweet contented life . I'le furnish thee with rare delights , as Ribbands and gold rings Perfumed Gloves and Bracelets fine and such like costly things With a Beaver hat and a taffety scarf and a new-fashion silken gown So thou shalt be as brave a Girl . as any in the town The second part , to the same Tune . Maid . GOod Sir I thank you kindly for your proffered courtesy But this I tell you plainly here in truth and verity That I shall never love you while I on earth remain Therefore forbear and say no more spend not your breath in vain . This not your cunning speeches that shall tempt me unto since For all your wealth and riches sir , I valve not a pin I will not wed a Prodigal though he be never so brave But if ever I marry while I live , some Tradesman I will have . A Prodigal will domineer , and soon consume his store , Which being gone he knows not how nor which way to get more But the brave resolved tradesman is free from such like sorrow If he wants money over night , hee'l work for more next morrow A spendthrift that consumeth and sells his land for gold Is very like to live in want or beg when he is old But the Noble-minded tradesman , his work goes forward still For he hath meat and drink enuf , and all things else at will . So now you honest Bachelors you partly know my mind If I can with a Tradesman meet , that will to me prove kind If that he takes me to his wife , I will him dearly love , Andile be as faithful unto him as is the Turtle Dove . I do confess gay Ribbons becomes the britches fine , And that the golden fancies will make the Codpiece shine But before I will be married to such a Prodigal I'll live a Maid and die a Maid , and thats a word for all . Man. Farewell you scornful minion I bid thee now adue I never do intend to come , again to trouble you , I'll rest my self contented until that I can find A wife that is more fitting and agreeable to my mind . Maid . Why then farewell proud Coxcome and this I tell thee plain Thy pride and thy ambition , I hold in much disdain , Rather then such a jack as thou , shouldst be my company keeper , I'll marry with a Beggar-man or with a Chimney-Sweeper . Finis . L.P. London Printed for Fran. Grove on Snow-hill . 