[ Miss Anne Askew was burned for the protestant religion ( which she confessed ) in Smythfeild anno 1546. ] Anne Askew , entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me ; Long have I sought , but fain would I find , what herb in my Garden were best to be . A garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my body , where I should have sown , the seed of Christs true verity . My spirit within me is vexed soar ; my spirit striveth against the same : My sorrows do increase daily more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with my self being thus at strife , would fain have been at res Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord , unto a Gardener that I did know ; I went and desired him for the love of the Lord true seeds in my garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will , And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for venial sins he bade me go : To give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my salvation : I had Trentals of Mass , and Balls of Led , not one word spoke of Christs passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seed , with Popish Ceremonies many a one : Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds still Gods spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or some Chantry , to be pray'd for while the world does endure . Beware of a new learning ( says he ) it is lies , which is the thing I most abhor : Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your father's have done before . My trust I did put in the devils works , thinking them sufficient my soul to save : Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his merits I did deprave . I might liken my self with a woeful heart , unto the dumb man in Lycia the eleven : From whence Christ caused the devil to depart but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas shall I die the sooner therefore ? O Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word , Which I will not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot , nor fierce sword . strengthen me good Lord in thy truth to stand , for the bloody butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter-knives ready drawn in their hand , my simple carcase to devour and kill . O Lord forgive me mine offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful body from hence , then shall I vile creature offend thee no more . I would with all creatures and faithful friends for to keep from this Gardners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce firebrands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , & much pestilent seed abroad he hath sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show , I trust hereafter that by Gods holy grace , that all faithful men shall plainly it know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my spirit , that art the workmaster of the same , It is thine Lord , therefore take it of right , my carcase on earth I leave , from whence it came . Although to ashes it be now burned , I know thou canst raise it again : In the same likeness that thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . FINIS . [ Miss Anne Askew was burned for the protestant religion ( which she confessed ) in Smythfeild anno 1546. ] Anne Askew , entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me ; Long have I sought , but fain would I find , what herb in my Garden were best to be . A garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my body , where I should have sown , the seed of Christs true verity . My spirit within me is vexed soar ; my spirit striveth against the same : My sorrows do increase daily more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with my self being thus at strife , would fain have been at res Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord , unto a Gardener that I did know ; I went and desired him for the love of the Lord true seeds in my garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will , And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for venial sins he bade me go : To give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my salvation : I had Trentals of Mass , and Balls of Led , not one word spoke of Christs passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seed , with Popish Ceremonies many a one : Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds still Gods spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or some Chantry , to be pray'd for while the world does endure . Beware of a new learning ( says he ) it is lies , which is the thing I most abhor : Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your father's have done before . My trust I did put in the devils works , thinking them sufficient my soul to save : Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his merits I did deprave . I might liken my self with a woeful heart , unto the dumb man in Lycia the eleven : From whence Christ caused the devil to depart but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas shall I die the sooner therefore ? O Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word , Which I will not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot , nor fierce sword . strengthen me good Lord in thy truth to stand , for the bloody butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter-knives ready drawn in their hand , my simple carcase to devour and kill . O Lord forgive me mine offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful body from hence , then shall I vile creature offend thee no more . I would with all creatures and faithful friends for to keep from this Gardners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce firebrands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , & much pestilent seed abroad he hath sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show , I trust hereafter that by Gods holy grace , that all faithful men shall plainly it know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my spirit , that art the workmaster of the same , It is thine Lord , therefore take it of right , my carcase on earth I leave , from whence it came . Although to ashes it be now burned , I know thou canst raise it again : In the same likeness that thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . FINIS . 