A New SONG , call'd the Durham LOVERS . NIgh Durham Town as I was a walking , I herd two Lovers there a talking , It was on the Common nigh the Town , The Gentleman he laid her down Fall lal , etc He said my Dear , my Joy , my Jewel , Pray do not unto me prove cruel ; Grant me the thing that I do crave , And a handsome Piece of Gold you shall have . Beside my dear it's not all I'll give thee , For thou shalt go to Ireland with me ; And when that we do come on Shore , I'll deck thee like a Queen all oar . She said your Promises are great Sir , Your Favours I will not forget Sir ; Oh but my Master told me this , That I with none but him should kiss . I fear my Master will be cruel , That you should rob him of his Jewel ; Ne'er mind your Master's not at hand , Your Stay with him will not be long With these fine Promises he made her , He gain'd Consent and down he laid her : You wou [ l ] worser have laugh'd to have seen his Wig , Oh how it danc'd upon his Rigg . If any one should ask his Name Sir ; To tell it I should be to blame Sir , For he's the Master of his Trade , And he likewise can draw a three squar'd blade . Fal , lal , etc FINIS . A New SONG , call'd the Durham LOVERS . NIgh Durham Town as I was a walking , I herd two Lovers there a talking , It was on the Common nigh the Town , The Gentleman he laid her down Fall lal , etc He said my Dear , my Joy , my Jewel , Pray do not unto me prove cruel ; Grant me the thing that I do crave , And a handsome Piece of Gold you shall have . Beside my dear it's not all I'll give thee , For thou shalt go to Ireland with me ; And when that we do come on Shore , I'll deck thee like a Queen all oar . She said your Promises are great Sir , Your Favours I will not forget Sir ; Oh but my Master told me this , That I with none but him should kiss . I fear my Master will be cruel , That you should rob him of his Jewel ; Ne'er mind your Master's not at hand , Your Stay with him will not be long With these fine Promises he made her , He gain'd Consent and down he laid her : You wou [ l ] worser have laugh'd to have seen his Wig , Oh how it danc'd upon his Rigg . If any one should ask his Name Sir ; To tell it I should be to blame Sir , For he's the Master of his Trade , And he likewise can draw a three squar'd blade . Fal , lal , etc FINIS . 