And Admirable new Northern Story , Of two [ c ] onstant Lovers , as I understand , We [ r ] e born near Appleby , in Westmerland ; The Lad nam Anthony , Constance the Lass , To Sea they went both , and great dangers did pass . How they suffered Shipwreck , on the Coast of Spain , For two years divided , and then met again : By wondered fortune , and care accident , And now both live at home in joy and content . The tune is , I would thou wertenberg in Shrowsbury . TWo Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth a gallant History . They lov'd exceeding well , as plainly does appear , But that which I shall tell , the like you ne'r did hear . Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony Gang thou by Land or Sea , i'le weened along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , his calling did him bind , My Constance dear ( quoth he ) I must leave thee behind . I prithee be not griev'd , thy tears will not prevail , I'll think on thee my sweet , when the ships under sail . But still , etc How may that be ( said he ) consider well the case , Quoth she sweet Anthony , i'le bide not in this place : If thou gang so will I , of the means do not doubt , A woman's Policy great matters may find ou My bonny , etc I would be very glad , but prithee tell me how , I'll dress me like a Lad , what sayest thou to me now ? The Sea thou canst not brook , yes , very well , quoth she , I'll scullain to the Cook , for thy sweet company . My bonny , etc Anthonies leave she had , and dressed in men array , She seem'd the blithest Lad , seen on a Summer's day . O see what love can do , at home she will not bide , With her true love she'l go let weal or woe betide . My dearest , etc In the Ship 'twas her lot to be the under Cook , And at the Fire hight wondered pains she took , She served every one , fiting to their degree , And now and then alone , she kissed Anthony . My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , i'le weened along with thee . The second Part , to the same tune . ALack and welladay , by tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , upon the Ceased of Spain . To th' mercy of the waves , they all committed were , Constance her own self saves , then she cries for her dear : My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Sea or Land , i'le weened along with thee . Swimming upon a Plank , at Bilbo she god ashore , First she did heaven thank , than she lamented soar : Oh woe is me ( said she ) the saddest Lass alive , My dearest Anthony , now on the Sea does drive . My bonny , etc What shall become of me , why did I strive for shore : Sith my sweet Anthony , I never shall see more , Fair Constance do not grieve , the same good providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet , but he is far from hence ; Still she cries , etc A Spanish Merchant rich , saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , and was so grievous sad . He had in England been , and English understood , He having herd and seen , he in amazement stood . Still she , etc The Merchant asked her , what was that Anthony , Quoth she , my brother Sir , who came from thence with me He did her entertain , thinking she was a boy , Two years she did remain , before she met her joy . Still she , etc Anthony up was taken , by and English Runagade , With whom he did remain at the Sea-roving trade , I'th nature of a Slave he did i'th galley row , Thus he his life did save , but Constance did not know . Still she , etc Now mark what came to pass , see how the fates did work , A Ship that her master's was , surpriz'd this English Turk . And into Bilbo brought , all that aboard her were , Constance full little thought Anthony was so ne [ are ] Still she , etc When they were come on shore , Anthony and the rest , She who was sad before , was now with joy possessed , The Merchant much did muse , at this so sudden change , He did demand the news , which unto him was strange . Now she has Anthony , her bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea , i'le weened along with thee . Upon her knees she fell , unto her Master kind , And all the truth did tell , nothing she kept behind , At which he did admire , and in a Ship of Spain , Not paying for their hire he sent them home again . Now she has , etc The Spanish Merchant Rich , did of s bounty give A sum of gold on which they now most bravely live , And now in Westmerland , near unto Appleby , They were joyn'd hand in hand Constance and Anth [ only . ] They live i [ n mirth and glee , Now she cries Anthony my bonny Anthony , Good Providence we see , hath guarded thee and me . ] Printed for T. Vere , at the sign oh [ ? ] And Admirable new Northern Story , Of two [ c ] onstant Lovers , as I understand , We [ r ] e born near Appleby , in Westmerland ; The Lad nam Anthony , Constance the Lass , To Sea they went both , and great dangers did pass . How they suffered Shipwreck , on the Coast of Spain , For two years divided , and then met again : By wondered fortune , and care accident , And now both live at home in joy and content . The tune is , I would thou wertenberg in Shrowsbury . TWo Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth a gallant History . They lov'd exceeding well , as plainly does appear , But that which I shall tell , the like you ne'r did hear . Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony Gang thou by Land or Sea , i'le weened along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , his calling did him bind , My Constance dear ( quoth he ) I must leave thee behind . I prithee be not griev'd , thy tears will not prevail , I'll think on thee my sweet , when the ships under sail . But still , etc How may that be ( said he ) consider well the case , Quoth she sweet Anthony , i'le bide not in this place : If thou gang so will I , of the means do not doubt , A woman's Policy great matters may find ou My bonny , etc I would be very glad , but prithee tell me how , I'll dress me like a Lad , what sayest thou to me now ? The Sea thou canst not brook , yes , very well , quoth she , I'll scullain to the Cook , for thy sweet company . My bonny , etc Anthonies leave she had , and dressed in men array , She seem'd the blithest Lad , seen on a Summer's day . O see what love can do , at home she will not bide , With her true love she'l go let weal or woe betide . My dearest , etc In the Ship 'twas her lot to be the under Cook , And at the Fire hight wondered pains she took , She served every one , fiting to their degree , And now and then alone , she kissed Anthony . My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , i'le weened along with thee . The second Part , to the same tune . ALack and welladay , by tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , upon the Ceased of Spain . To th' mercy of the waves , they all committed were , Constance her own self saves , then she cries for her dear : My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Sea or Land , i'le weened along with thee . Swimming upon a Plank , at Bilbo she god ashore , First she did heaven thank , than she lamented soar : Oh woe is me ( said she ) the saddest Lass alive , My dearest Anthony , now on the Sea does drive . My bonny , etc What shall become of me , why did I strive for shore : Sith my sweet Anthony , I never shall see more , Fair Constance do not grieve , the same good providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet , but he is far from hence ; Still she cries , etc A Spanish Merchant rich , saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , and was so grievous sad . He had in England been , and English understood , He having herd and seen , he in amazement stood . Still she , etc The Merchant asked her , what was that Anthony , Quoth she , my brother Sir , who came from thence with me He did her entertain , thinking she was a boy , Two years she did remain , before she met her joy . Still she , etc Anthony up was taken , by and English Runagade , With whom he did remain at the Sea-roving trade , I'th nature of a Slave he did i'th galley row , Thus he his life did save , but Constance did not know . Still she , etc Now mark what came to pass , see how the fates did work , A Ship that her master's was , surpriz'd this English Turk . And into Bilbo brought , all that aboard her were , Constance full little thought Anthony was so ne [ are ] Still she , etc When they were come on shore , Anthony and the rest , She who was sad before , was now with joy possessed , The Merchant much did muse , at this so sudden change , He did demand the news , which unto him was strange . Now she has Anthony , her bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea , i'le weened along with thee . Upon her knees she fell , unto her Master kind , And all the truth did tell , nothing she kept behind , At which he did admire , and in a Ship of Spain , Not paying for their hire he sent them home again . Now she has , etc The Spanish Merchant Rich , did of s bounty give A sum of gold on which they now most bravely live , And now in Westmerland , near unto Appleby , They were joyn'd hand in hand Constance and Anth [ only . ] They live i [ n mirth and glee , Now she cries Anthony my bonny Anthony , Good Providence we see , hath guarded thee and me . ] Printed for T. Vere , at the sign oh [ ? ] 