BEAUTY's Cruelty : OR , The Passionate Lover . And excellent new Play-song much in Request , to a Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . THere is one black and sullen hour , which Fate decrees our lives should know , Else we shou'd flight Almighty Power , Wrapped with the Joys we find below : 'Tis passed dear Cynthia , now let frowns be gone , Along , long penance I have done , a long , long penance I have done , For Crimes to me , alas ! unknown , for Crimes to me , alas ! unknown . In each soft hour of silent night , your Image in my Dream appears , I grasp the Soul of my delight , slumber in joy , but wak'd in tears : Ah! faithless charming Saint what will you do , Let me not think I am by you , let me not think I am by you , Lov'd less , lov'd less , for being true , lov'd less , lov'd less , for being true . Before dear Cynthia I beheld , thy charming face , my heart was free From Love , and knew not how to yield to any Beauty but to thee : Bright as the Sun that in the East does rise , Did force me by a sweet surprise , did force me by a sweet surprise , To yield the Conquest to your Eyes , to yield the Conquest to your Eyes . One pleasing Smile my charming fair , my Lovesick Heart with Joy to fill , Thy piercing frowns breeds my Despair , Oh! let those Eyes that wound not kill ; Since by a smile my heart you did inspire , And created in it a Fire , and created , etc That never , never can expire , that never , never , can expire . No longer then thus tyrannise , but all your cruelty give o're And not a heart so true despise , that will for ever you adore : Ah , charming Nymph , grant love for love again Do not by Frowns create my pain ; do not by Frowns , etc Nor torture me by your disdain , nor torture me by your disdain . What is my Crime , dear Cynthia , that my punishment is so severe ? Tell me that I may expiate my Crime , by a repenting tear : Forbear by Cruelty to tortue me , I offer you a Heart that's free I offer you a Heart , etc From false deceit and flattery , from false deceit and flattery . Oh! why you Powers did you frame her heart so hard and face so fair ? Her face did first my heart inflame , her cruelty breeds my despair : Make her more kind , you Powers , then I crave . That she may cure the wound she gave , that she may cure , etc Or send me to my wished-for Grave , or send me to my wished-for Grave . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Giltspur street , without Newgate . BEAUTY's Cruelty : OR , The Passionate Lover . And excellent new Play-song much in Request , to a Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . THere is one black and sullen hour , which Fate decrees our lives should know , Else we shou'd flight Almighty Power , Wrapped with the Joys we find below : 'Tis passed dear Cynthia , now let frowns be gone , Along , long penance I have done , a long , long penance I have done , For Crimes to me , alas ! unknown , for Crimes to me , alas ! unknown . In each soft hour of silent night , your Image in my Dream appears , I grasp the Soul of my delight , slumber in joy , but wak'd in tears : Ah! faithless charming Saint what will you do , Let me not think I am by you , let me not think I am by you , Lov'd less , lov'd less , for being true , lov'd less , lov'd less , for being true . Before dear Cynthia I beheld , thy charming face , my heart was free From Love , and knew not how to yield to any Beauty but to thee : Bright as the Sun that in the East does rise , Did force me by a sweet surprise , did force me by a sweet surprise , To yield the Conquest to your Eyes , to yield the Conquest to your Eyes . One pleasing Smile my charming fair , my Lovesick Heart with Joy to fill , Thy piercing frowns breeds my Despair , Oh! let those Eyes that wound not kill ; Since by a smile my heart you did inspire , And created in it a Fire , and created , etc That never , never can expire , that never , never , can expire . No longer then thus tyrannise , but all your cruelty give o're And not a heart so true despise , that will for ever you adore : Ah , charming Nymph , grant love for love again Do not by Frowns create my pain ; do not by Frowns , etc Nor torture me by your disdain , nor torture me by your disdain . What is my Crime , dear Cynthia , that my punishment is so severe ? Tell me that I may expiate my Crime , by a repenting tear : Forbear by Cruelty to tortue me , I offer you a Heart that's free I offer you a Heart , etc From false deceit and flattery , from false deceit and flattery . Oh! why you Powers did you frame her heart so hard and face so fair ? Her face did first my heart inflame , her cruelty breeds my despair : Make her more kind , you Powers , then I crave . That she may cure the wound she gave , that she may cure , etc Or send me to my wished-for Grave , or send me to my wished-for Grave . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Giltspur street , without Newgate . 