The Masterpiece of Lovesongs : A Dialogue betwixt a bold KEEPER and a LADY gay , He woo'd his LORD's Daughter , and carried the day ; But soon after Marriage was forc'd for to fight , With his Lord and six Gentlemen , for his own Right ; He cut them , and hew'd them , and paid them with blows , And made them his Friends , that before were his Foes . To the Tune of , The Week before Easter , the Day's long and clear , etc IT was a bold Keeper that chased the deer , Of a stouter bold spirit you never did hear , And he loved a Lady of beauty most clear , And now you shall hear of his wooing : Keeper . ] O pity fair Lady , the suit which I move , For I'm deep in affection , and tossed in love ; For you are the Lady , the turtle , and dove , Whereon I have cast my affection . Lady ] O keeper forbear , I shall thus answer thee , I am a match for a Lord of a high degree ; For my birth and yours they not equal be , Therefore Keeper forbear your wooing . K ] This repulse it makes me sadly to grieve ; And true 'tis we all came from Adam and Eve , One loving word to my life is a reprieve , Though I am linked fast in Cupid's prison . L. ] O why should you say you'r a prisoner to me ; Oh hold , forbear Keeper , for that may not be : We both may have matches fitter for each degree ; Then forbear , and take this for and answer . K. ] No , not for and answer , that I shall it take , And yet this denial makes my heart to ache ; And I shall lay down my life at the stake , T'obtain the favour of my Lady . L ] It is a mere madness your life to lay down , What will people say ? 'There's and end of a clown , 'That passed many dangers 'till fortune did frown , And now died a petended lover . K. ] The name of a clown in my heart I do scorn , Being nobly descended , and a gentleman born : Yet I am a Keeper that must be forlorn , Except you can love me fair Lady . L. ] Well Keeper , I perceive thou hast a good heart , Well thou art come - pacted in every par If my Lord did know , we should both suffer smart My father would be so offended . K. ] Lady if you will consent to be my bride , I will gird my sword and buckler by my side , And then to the Church in private we'll ride , Where we will be married fair Lady . She then gave consent , and away they did ride , The valiant bold Keeper , and his lovely bride , Not fearing of danger what ever betide , For she was a valiant young Lady . Being married , he returned back speedily , And riding along her father did espy : Alack , quoth the Lady , one or both shall die . Fear nothing , quoth the Keeper , fair Lady . The Lord he came posting so fast as he could high ; And six lusty gentlemen for company : Quoth he to the Keeper , Villain thou shalt die , For deluding away my fair daughter : Come on , quoth the Keeper , 'tis no time to prattle , I see by your swords you'r prepar'd for battle : With his sword and buckler he made them to rattle : The Lady did hold the horse for the Keeper . He cut them and hew'd them on the place he did stand : Oh then , quoth the Lord , bold Keeper hold thy hand . If you'll give your daughter thirty thousand in land , You shall not die by the hand of the Keeper . Keeper , quoth the Lady , 'tis too small a portion . Peace , quoth the Lord , daughter let your will be done ; I will love thy husband , and thee ever own . Thus a Keeper gained a fair Lady . Licensed and Entered . LONDON : Printed for A. M. W. O. and Though Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . The Masterpiece of Lovesongs : A Dialogue betwixt a bold KEEPER and a LADY gay , He woo'd his LORD's Daughter , and carried the day ; But soon after Marriage was forc'd for to fight , With his Lord and six Gentlemen , for his own Right ; He cut them , and hew'd them , and paid them with blows , And made them his Friends , that before were his Foes . To the Tune of , The Week before Easter , the Day's long and clear , etc IT was a bold Keeper that chased the deer , Of a stouter bold spirit you never did hear , And he loved a Lady of beauty most clear , And now you shall hear of his wooing : Keeper . ] O pity fair Lady , the suit which I move , For I'm deep in affection , and tossed in love ; For you are the Lady , the turtle , and dove , Whereon I have cast my affection . Lady ] O keeper forbear , I shall thus answer thee , I am a match for a Lord of a high degree ; For my birth and yours they not equal be , Therefore Keeper forbear your wooing . K ] This repulse it makes me sadly to grieve ; And true 'tis we all came from Adam and Eve , One loving word to my life is a reprieve , Though I am linked fast in Cupid's prison . L. ] O why should you say you'r a prisoner to me ; Oh hold , forbear Keeper , for that may not be : We both may have matches fitter for each degree ; Then forbear , and take this for and answer . K. ] No , not for and answer , that I shall it take , And yet this denial makes my heart to ache ; And I shall lay down my life at the stake , T'obtain the favour of my Lady . L ] It is a mere madness your life to lay down , What will people say ? 'There's and end of a clown , 'That passed many dangers 'till fortune did frown , And now died a petended lover . K. ] The name of a clown in my heart I do scorn , Being nobly descended , and a gentleman born : Yet I am a Keeper that must be forlorn , Except you can love me fair Lady . L. ] Well Keeper , I perceive thou hast a good heart , Well thou art come - pacted in every par If my Lord did know , we should both suffer smart My father would be so offended . K. ] Lady if you will consent to be my bride , I will gird my sword and buckler by my side , And then to the Church in private we'll ride , Where we will be married fair Lady . She then gave consent , and away they did ride , The valiant bold Keeper , and his lovely bride , Not fearing of danger what ever betide , For she was a valiant young Lady . Being married , he returned back speedily , And riding along her father did espy : Alack , quoth the Lady , one or both shall die . Fear nothing , quoth the Keeper , fair Lady . The Lord he came posting so fast as he could high ; And six lusty gentlemen for company : Quoth he to the Keeper , Villain thou shalt die , For deluding away my fair daughter : Come on , quoth the Keeper , 'tis no time to prattle , I see by your swords you'r prepar'd for battle : With his sword and buckler he made them to rattle : The Lady did hold the horse for the Keeper . He cut them and hew'd them on the place he did stand : Oh then , quoth the Lord , bold Keeper hold thy hand . If you'll give your daughter thirty thousand in land , You shall not die by the hand of the Keeper . Keeper , quoth the Lady , 'tis too small a portion . Peace , quoth the Lord , daughter let your will be done ; I will love thy husband , and thee ever own . Thus a Keeper gained a fair Lady . Licensed and Entered . LONDON : Printed for A. M. W. O. and Though Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . 