The Man in the Moon drinks Claret , As it was lately sung at the Curtain Holywel to the same tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowles , Full Mazers Beakers Ghasses bowls Greasy Flapdragons flemish Upsie freeze With healths stab'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like Bumbasters . Drink till you reel a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live , Not a painter purer Colour shows , then whats laid on by Claret Pearl and ruby both set out the nose when thin small beer does mar it . Rich wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old man lusty . The young to brawl . And Drawers up call , before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves you whitle , Then though twelve A clock it be Yet all the way go roaring , If the band , Of bills cry stand , Swears that you must a whor --- Such Gambols , such tricks , such figaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaryes , French wine till the welkin roars , And cry out a pox of your scores . In wine we call for bawdy Jigs , Catzors , Rumbiloes , Whirlgigs , Crambo god in the huff-cap vain . The Devil in the places you wot where reign Brave wine it is thus tickles our heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels . Our Moon man and his Powder beef mad crew thus caper through the liquour sweet turnip drew Round about over tables and joyn'd stools , lets dance with naked Rapiers . Cut the fiddle strings and then like fools , kick out the sum sum scrapers . There is no found , The ears can wound As lids of wine pots clinking Theres no such sport When all amort Men cry lets fallen to drinking , Oh this nappy geer , would each belly was fil'd here Herrings pickel'd Must be tickel'd , Down to draw the liquour , The salt Sammon And fat Gammon , Makes your wine drink quicker . Our man in the Moon drinks Claret , With Powder beef turnip and Carret , If he does so why should not you Drink wine until the Sky looks blue , Heigh for a turn thus above ground heigh , Oh my noddle too heavy does way , Me the glin Perry Syder nor strong Ale , Are half so heavy be they never so stale Wine in our guts can never rumble , Down now and than though it make us stumble Yet scambling up a drunkard feels no pain But cries sirrah boy totker pottle again , We can drink no more unless we have full pipes of Trinidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains more warm then can freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh jing , And laugh when Pipes lie broken . For which to pay At going away , We scorn a Mustard Token . Never curse the saucy score Out swear the bar you'l pay no more . In these days He is no Gallant , That cannot puff and swagger Though he dare not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his Dagger . If then you do love my Oast Claret , Fat Powder beef turnip and Carret . Come again and again And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , and W Gilbertson The Man in the Moon drinks Claret , As it was lately sung at the Curtain Holywel to the same tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowles , Full Mazers Beakers Ghasses bowls Greasy Flapdragons flemish Upsie freeze With healths stab'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like Bumbasters . Drink till you reel a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live , Not a painter purer Colour shows , then whats laid on by Claret Pearl and ruby both set out the nose when thin small beer does mar it . Rich wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old man lusty . The young to brawl . And Drawers up call , before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves you whitle , Then though twelve A clock it be Yet all the way go roaring , If the band , Of bills cry stand , Swears that you must a whor --- Such Gambols , such tricks , such figaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaryes , French wine till the welkin roars , And cry out a pox of your scores . In wine we call for bawdy Jigs , Catzors , Rumbiloes , Whirlgigs , Crambo god in the huff-cap vain . The Devil in the places you wot where reign Brave wine it is thus tickles our heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels . Our Moon man and his Powder beef mad crew thus caper through the liquour sweet turnip drew Round about over tables and joyn'd stools , lets dance with naked Rapiers . Cut the fiddle strings and then like fools , kick out the sum sum scrapers . There is no found , The ears can wound As lids of wine pots clinking Theres no such sport When all amort Men cry lets fallen to drinking , Oh this nappy geer , would each belly was fil'd here Herrings pickel'd Must be tickel'd , Down to draw the liquour , The salt Sammon And fat Gammon , Makes your wine drink quicker . Our man in the Moon drinks Claret , With Powder beef turnip and Carret , If he does so why should not you Drink wine until the Sky looks blue , Heigh for a turn thus above ground heigh , Oh my noddle too heavy does way , Me the glin Perry Syder nor strong Ale , Are half so heavy be they never so stale Wine in our guts can never rumble , Down now and than though it make us stumble Yet scambling up a drunkard feels no pain But cries sirrah boy totker pottle again , We can drink no more unless we have full pipes of Trinidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains more warm then can freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh jing , And laugh when Pipes lie broken . For which to pay At going away , We scorn a Mustard Token . Never curse the saucy score Out swear the bar you'l pay no more . In these days He is no Gallant , That cannot puff and swagger Though he dare not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his Dagger . If then you do love my Oast Claret , Fat Powder beef turnip and Carret . Come again and again And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , and W Gilbertson The Man in the Moon drinks Claret , As it was lately sung at the Curtain Holywel to the same tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowles , Full Mazers Beakers Ghasses bowls Greasy Flapdragons flemish Upsie freeze With healths stab'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like Bumbasters . Drink till you reel a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live , Not a painter purer Colour shows , then whats laid on by Claret Pearl and ruby both set out the nose when thin small beer does mar it . Rich wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old man lusty . The young to brawl . And Drawers up call , before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves you whitle , Then though twelve A clock it be Yet all the way go roaring , If the band , Of bills cry stand , Swears that you must a whor --- Such Gambols , such tricks , such figaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaryes , French wine till the welkin roars , And cry out a pox of your scores . In wine we call for bawdy Jigs , Catzors , Rumbiloes , Whirlgigs , Crambo god in the huff-cap vain . The Devil in the places you wot where reign Brave wine it is thus tickles our heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels . Our Moon man and his Powder beef mad crew thus caper through the liquour sweet turnip drew Round about over tables and joyn'd stools , lets dance with naked Rapiers . Cut the fiddle strings and then like fools , kick out the sum sum scrapers . There is no found , The ears can wound As lids of wine pots clinking Theres no such sport When all amort Men cry lets fallen to drinking , Oh this nappy geer , would each belly was fil'd here Herrings pickel'd Must be tickel'd , Down to draw the liquour , The salt Sammon And fat Gammon , Makes your wine drink quicker . Our man in the Moon drinks Claret , With Powder beef turnip and Carret , If he does so why should not you Drink wine until the Sky looks blue , Heigh for a turn thus above ground heigh , Oh my noddle too heavy does way , Me the glin Perry Syder nor strong Ale , Are half so heavy be they never so stale Wine in our guts can never rumble , Down now and than though it make us stumble Yet scambling up a drunkard feels no pain But cries sirrah boy totker pottle again , We can drink no more unless we have full pipes of Trinidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains more warm then can freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh jing , And laugh when Pipes lie broken . For which to pay At going away , We scorn a Mustard Token . Never curse the saucy score Out swear the bar you'l pay no more . In these days He is no Gallant , That cannot puff and swagger Though he dare not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his Dagger . If then you do love my Oast Claret , Fat Powder beef turnip and Carret . Come again and again And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , and W Gilbertson The Man in the Moon drinks Claret , As it was lately sung at the Curtain Holywel to the same tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowles , Full Mazers Beakers Ghasses bowls Greasy Flapdragons flemish Upsie freeze With healths stab'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like Bumbasters . Drink till you reel a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live , Not a painter purer Colour shows , then whats laid on by Claret Pearl and ruby both set out the nose when thin small beer does mar it . Rich wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old man lusty . The young to brawl . And Drawers up call , before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves you whitle , Then though twelve A clock it be Yet all the way go roaring , If the band , Of bills cry stand , Swears that you must a whor --- Such Gambols , such tricks , such figaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaryes , French wine till the welkin roars , And cry out a pox of your scores . In wine we call for bawdy Jigs , Catzors , Rumbiloes , Whirlgigs , Crambo god in the huff-cap vain . The Devil in the places you wot where reign Brave wine it is thus tickles our heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels . Our Moon man and his Powder beef mad crew thus caper through the liquour sweet turnip drew Round about over tables and joyn'd stools , lets dance with naked Rapiers . Cut the fiddle strings and then like fools , kick out the sum sum scrapers . There is no found , The ears can wound As lids of wine pots clinking Theres no such sport When all amort Men cry lets fallen to drinking , Oh this nappy geer , would each belly was fil'd here Herrings pickel'd Must be tickel'd , Down to draw the liquour , The salt Sammon And fat Gammon , Makes your wine drink quicker . Our man in the Moon drinks Claret , With Powder beef turnip and Carret , If he does so why should not you Drink wine until the Sky looks blue , Heigh for a turn thus above ground heigh , Oh my noddle too heavy does way , Me the glin Perry Syder nor strong Ale , Are half so heavy be they never so stale Wine in our guts can never rumble , Down now and than though it make us stumble Yet scambling up a drunkard feels no pain But cries sirrah boy totker pottle again , We can drink no more unless we have full pipes of Trinidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains more warm then can freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh jing , And laugh when Pipes lie broken . For which to pay At going away , We scorn a Mustard Token . Never curse the saucy score Out swear the bar you'l pay no more . In these days He is no Gallant , That cannot puff and swagger Though he dare not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his Dagger . If then you do love my Oast Claret , Fat Powder beef turnip and Carret . Come again and again And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , and W Gilbertson 