The Brides Burial . The Tune is , The Ladies Fallen . COme mourn , come mourn with me , you loyal Lovers all , Lament my loss in weeds of woe , whom gripping grief does thrall : Like to the dropping Vine , cut by the Gardners knife Even so my heart with sorrow slave , does bleed for my sweet wife . By death that grisly Ghost , my Turtle-Dove is slave , And I am left unhappy man to spend my days in pain . Her beauty late so bright , like Roses in their prime , Is wasted like the mountains snow , by force of Phebus shine . Her fair read coloured cheeks , now pale and won her eyes , That late did shine like Crystal stars , alas their light it die : Her pretty lily hands , with fingers long and small , In colour like the earthly clay , yea cold and stiff withal . When as the morning star , her golden gates had spread , And that the glistering Sun arose forth from fair Thetis bed . Then did my Love awake , most like a Lily flower , And as the lovely Queen of heaven , so shone she in her bower . Attired was she then , like Flora in her pride , As fair as any of Diana's Nymphs , so looked my loving Bride . And as fair Hellens face , gave Grecian dams the lurch , So did my deer exceed in sighed , all Virgins in the Church . When he had knit the knot , of holy wedlock band , Like Alabaster joyn'd to jet , so stood we hand in hand : Then lo a chilling cold struck every vital part , And gripping grief like pangs of death , seiz'd on my true loves heart . Down in a swoon she fell , as cold as any stone , Like Venus picture lacking life , so was my love brought home : At length a Rosy read , throughout her comely face , As Phebus beams with watery clouds , ere-covered for a space . THen with a grievous groan , and voice both hoarse and dry , Farewell quoth she my loving friend , for I this day must die : The messenger of God , with golden trumpet I see , With many other Angels more , which found and call for me . Instead of music sweet go towl my passing bell , And with sweet flowers strow my grave , that in my chamber smell . Strip off my brides array , my Cork shoes from my feet , And gentle Mother be not coy to bring my winding-sheet . My wedding dinner dressed , bestow upon the poor , And on the hungry needy mam'd that craves at the door : Instead of Virgins young my Bridebed for to see , Go cause some curious Carpenter to make a Chest for me . My Bridelaces of silk , be stow on Maidens meet , May fitly serve when I am dead , to tie my hands and fee And thou my lover true , my husband and my friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , and humbly on your knee , Direct your prayers unto God , but mourn no more for me ; In love as we have liv'd , in love let us depart , And I in token of my love , do kiss thee with my heart . O staunch these bootless tears , thy weeping is in vain , I am not lost for we in heaven shall one day meet again . With that she turn'd aside , as one dispos'd to sleep , And like a lamb departed life , whose friends did sorely weep . Her true love seeing this , did fetch a grievous groan , As though his heart would burst in two and thus he made his moan . O dismal and unhappy day , a day of grief and care , That hath bereft the Sun so high , whose beams refresh the Air . Now woe unto the world , and all that therein dwell , Oh that I were with thee in heaven , for here I live in hell . And now this Lover lives a discontented life , Whose Bride was brought unto the grave a Maiden and a Wife . A Garland fresh and fair of Lilies there was made , In sign of her Virginity , and on her Coffin laid : Six Maidens all in white , did bear her to the ground , The Bells' did ring in solemn sort , and made a doleful found . In earth they laid her then , for hungry worms a prey , So shall the fairest face alive , at length be brought to clay . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Brides Burial . The Tune is , The Ladies Fallen . COme mourn , come mourn with me , you loyal Lovers all , Lament my loss in weeds of woe , whom gripping grief does thrall : Like to the dropping Vine , cut by the Gardners knife Even so my heart with sorrow slave , does bleed for my sweet wife . By death that grisly Ghost , my Turtle-Dove is slave , And I am left unhappy man to spend my days in pain . Her beauty late so bright , like Roses in their prime , Is wasted like the mountains snow , by force of Phebus shine . Her fair read coloured cheeks , now pale and won her eyes , That late did shine like Crystal stars , alas their light it die : Her pretty lily hands , with fingers long and small , In colour like the earthly clay , yea cold and stiff withal . When as the morning star , her golden gates had spread , And that the glistering Sun arose forth from fair Thetis bed . Then did my Love awake , most like a Lily flower , And as the lovely Queen of heaven , so shone she in her bower . Attired was she then , like Flora in her pride , As fair as any of Diana's Nymphs , so looked my loving Bride . And as fair Hellens face , gave Grecian dams the lurch , So did my deer exceed in sighed , all Virgins in the Church . When he had knit the knot , of holy wedlock band , Like Alabaster joyn'd to jet , so stood we hand in hand : Then lo a chilling cold struck every vital part , And gripping grief like pangs of death , seiz'd on my true loves heart . Down in a swoon she fell , as cold as any stone , Like Venus picture lacking life , so was my love brought home : At length a Rosy read , throughout her comely face , As Phebus beams with watery clouds , ere-covered for a space . THen with a grievous groan , and voice both hoarse and dry , Farewell quoth she my loving friend , for I this day must die : The messenger of God , with golden trumpet I see , With many other Angels more , which found and call for me . Instead of music sweet go towl my passing bell , And with sweet flowers strow my grave , that in my chamber smell . Strip off my brides array , my Cork shoes from my feet , And gentle Mother be not coy to bring my winding-sheet . My wedding dinner dressed , bestow upon the poor , And on the hungry needy mam'd that craves at the door : Instead of Virgins young my Bridebed for to see , Go cause some curious Carpenter to make a Chest for me . My Bridelaces of silk , be stow on Maidens meet , May fitly serve when I am dead , to tie my hands and fee And thou my lover true , my husband and my friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , and humbly on your knee , Direct your prayers unto God , but mourn no more for me ; In love as we have liv'd , in love let us depart , And I in token of my love , do kiss thee with my heart . O staunch these bootless tears , thy weeping is in vain , I am not lost for we in heaven shall one day meet again . With that she turn'd aside , as one dispos'd to sleep , And like a lamb departed life , whose friends did sorely weep . Her true love seeing this , did fetch a grievous groan , As though his heart would burst in two and thus he made his moan . O dismal and unhappy day , a day of grief and care , That hath bereft the Sun so high , whose beams refresh the Air . Now woe unto the world , and all that therein dwell , Oh that I were with thee in heaven , for here I live in hell . And now this Lover lives a discontented life , Whose Bride was brought unto the grave a Maiden and a Wife . A Garland fresh and fair of Lilies there was made , In sign of her Virginity , and on her Coffin laid : Six Maidens all in white , did bear her to the ground , The Bells' did ring in solemn sort , and made a doleful found . In earth they laid her then , for hungry worms a prey , So shall the fairest face alive , at length be brought to clay . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 