The Bloody Butcher , And the two wicked and cruel Bawds : Expressed in a woeful Narrative of one Nathaniel Smith a Butcher , who lived in Maypole-Alley near the Strand ; his Wife having been all day in the Market selling of Meat , in the evening went with her Husband to and Alehouse , where they stay'd till ten of the clock . and then went home together , and being in their lodging , demanded of her the Money she had taken that day , but she ( being great with child and peevish ) refused to give it him , he taking his Butchers-knife in his hand stabb'd her in the back , whereof she instantly died , for which he was Apprehended , Condemned , and Executed at Tyburn , April the 24th . 1667. As also another Relation of a Ravisher , who in a Bawdyhouse ( assisted by two Women ) ravished a Girl . The Tune , The bleeding heart . WHat horrid execrable Crimes Possess us in these latter Times ; Not Pestilence , nor Sword , nor Fire , Will make us from our Sins retire . Two sad Relations that befell Us in this Month , I shall you tell , As dismal dreadful Deeds they be , As ever you did hear or see . One was the Murder of a Wife , By wrathful Hand , and bloody Knife ; T'other declares those that defil'd , The Virgin body of a Child . A Butcher , as we understand , Liv'd near the Maypole in the Strand ; Nathaniel Smith , who lost his life , For the sad slaughter of his Wife . After so many years their hands , Had been conjoyn'd in wedlock bans , Whereby came many Children small , One wretched hour confounds them all . This Butchers Wife did keep a Seat I'th Marketplace to fell her Meat ; And was by all report that's made , A careful housewife in the Trade . One fatal Evening being come , From Market , to her latest home , She and her Husband both went then , To a Victualling-house and stayed till ten . The second part , to the same tune . THen went together home , where when A little season they had been ; He in a bold imperious way , Demands the Coin she took that day . She being with Child , and fretful too , What he commands she would not do ; Which , with his drink begat a rage , Nothing but Murder could assuage . Words made his passion mount up higher She was the bellows , he the fire : Words are but wind , but yet they do , Pierce through the Soul and Body too . The Devil had subdued him there , And whisper'd Murder in his ear ; Which he impatient of delay , Does perpetrate the readiest way . With a strong long sharp-pointed knife , Into the back he stabs his wife : Flesh of his flesh , bone of his bone , With one dead-doing blow is gone . She faltered , fainted , fell down dead , Upon the ground her blood was shed ; The little Infant in the womb Received there both Life and Toomb . Then was he Apprehended , by Some Neighbours that did hear her cry Out Murder , murder , and for this , He judge [ ' ] worser and Executed is . Let this a warning be to those , Whose Passion are their greatest Foes : And let all Women have a care , To stir those that impatient are . Ten angry words with wrath and Knife , Has kil'd a Husband and a Wife ; And Infant too , which makes up Three , And ruin'd a whole Family . But mischiefs seldom come alone , My Muse hath yet another Groan ; A sighs , a tear , and much of moan , To tell a Deed but lately done . There was one Mary , a grand Bawd , That liv'd by Lechery and Fraud ; Assisted by her Daughter Bess , Did keep a house of wickedness . They liv'd at Westminster , where they , Many a Virgin did betray : Whose wicked actions made them rue , This Fact they did , which I'le tell you . It seems a Fellow thither came , To pacify his lustful flame ; Having a fire of Drink before , Came to be quenched by a Whore . They being destitute , did meet , A Neighbours Daughter in the street ; A pretty Child , and as 'tis told , By many , but of Ten years old . Yet she is tempted in by them , To serve their turn in that extreme , And then deliver'd up to One , Was more a Devil than a Man. Unto this weak unwary Child , That was unfit to be defil'd ; In order to their base Design , They give it Brandy , Ale , and Wine . Their hight Guest for a Wench does call , They brought him One , but very small ; It serv'd his turn , and he did fly , At his small Game , they standing by , The Child resisted and cried out , The old Bawd choak'd her with a Clout Stop'd in the mouth ; the Fellow spoil'd , With furious lust the fainting Child . The Fellow having Ravished , This tender Child , away he fled : But what he was , or who , is known Not as I hear , to any one . The two that held , and stopped her breath , Most justly now have suffer'd Death ; Much pity 'tis that he is free'd , By flight , that did the filthy Deed. Thus have I told you Two sad Crimes , Committed in these worst of Times ; Let all that hear me now , by this , Take warning not to do amiss . Return to God , reform your Lives , Men be not bitter to your wives : Wives love your Husbands , for bad words Have drawn a hundred thousand swords . Let Love and Patience both agree , To keep us all in Amity ; Then all our bloody Broils will cease , God save the King , and send us Peace . With Allowance . London , Printed by E. Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Bloody Butcher , And the two wicked and cruel Bawds : Expressed in a woeful Narrative of one Nathaniel Smith a Butcher , who lived in Maypole-Alley near the Strand ; his Wife having been all day in the Market selling of Meat , in the evening went with her Husband to and Alehouse , where they stay'd till ten of the clock . and then went home together , and being in their lodging , demanded of her the Money she had taken that day , but she ( being great with child and peevish ) refused to give it him , he taking his Butchers-knife in his hand stabb'd her in the back , whereof she instantly died , for which he was Apprehended , Condemned , and Executed at Tyburn , April the 24th . 1667. As also another Relation of a Ravisher , who in a Bawdyhouse ( assisted by two Women ) ravished a Girl . The Tune , The bleeding heart . WHat horrid execrable Crimes Possess us in these latter Times ; Not Pestilence , nor Sword , nor Fire , Will make us from our Sins retire . Two sad Relations that befell Us in this Month , I shall you tell , As dismal dreadful Deeds they be , As ever you did hear or see . One was the Murder of a Wife , By wrathful Hand , and bloody Knife ; T'other declares those that defil'd , The Virgin body of a Child . A Butcher , as we understand , Liv'd near the Maypole in the Strand ; Nathaniel Smith , who lost his life , For the sad slaughter of his Wife . After so many years their hands , Had been conjoyn'd in wedlock bans , Whereby came many Children small , One wretched hour confounds them all . This Butchers Wife did keep a Seat I'th Marketplace to fell her Meat ; And was by all report that's made , A careful housewife in the Trade . One fatal Evening being come , From Market , to her latest home , She and her Husband both went then , To a Victualling-house and stayed till ten . The second part , to the same tune . THen went together home , where when A little season they had been ; He in a bold imperious way , Demands the Coin she took that day . She being with Child , and fretful too , What he commands she would not do ; Which , with his drink begat a rage , Nothing but Murder could assuage . Words made his passion mount up higher She was the bellows , he the fire : Words are but wind , but yet they do , Pierce through the Soul and Body too . The Devil had subdued him there , And whisper'd Murder in his ear ; Which he impatient of delay , Does perpetrate the readiest way . With a strong long sharp-pointed knife , Into the back he stabs his wife : Flesh of his flesh , bone of his bone , With one dead-doing blow is gone . She faltered , fainted , fell down dead , Upon the ground her blood was shed ; The little Infant in the womb Received there both Life and Toomb . Then was he Apprehended , by Some Neighbours that did hear her cry Out Murder , murder , and for this , He judge [ ' ] worser and Executed is . Let this a warning be to those , Whose Passion are their greatest Foes : And let all Women have a care , To stir those that impatient are . Ten angry words with wrath and Knife , Has kil'd a Husband and a Wife ; And Infant too , which makes up Three , And ruin'd a whole Family . But mischiefs seldom come alone , My Muse hath yet another Groan ; A sighs , a tear , and much of moan , To tell a Deed but lately done . There was one Mary , a grand Bawd , That liv'd by Lechery and Fraud ; Assisted by her Daughter Bess , Did keep a house of wickedness . They liv'd at Westminster , where they , Many a Virgin did betray : Whose wicked actions made them rue , This Fact they did , which I'le tell you . It seems a Fellow thither came , To pacify his lustful flame ; Having a fire of Drink before , Came to be quenched by a Whore . They being destitute , did meet , A Neighbours Daughter in the street ; A pretty Child , and as 'tis told , By many , but of Ten years old . Yet she is tempted in by them , To serve their turn in that extreme , And then deliver'd up to One , Was more a Devil than a Man. Unto this weak unwary Child , That was unfit to be defil'd ; In order to their base Design , They give it Brandy , Ale , and Wine . Their hight Guest for a Wench does call , They brought him One , but very small ; It serv'd his turn , and he did fly , At his small Game , they standing by , The Child resisted and cried out , The old Bawd choak'd her with a Clout Stop'd in the mouth ; the Fellow spoil'd , With furious lust the fainting Child . The Fellow having Ravished , This tender Child , away he fled : But what he was , or who , is known Not as I hear , to any one . The two that held , and stopped her breath , Most justly now have suffer'd Death ; Much pity 'tis that he is free'd , By flight , that did the filthy Deed. Thus have I told you Two sad Crimes , Committed in these worst of Times ; Let all that hear me now , by this , Take warning not to do amiss . Return to God , reform your Lives , Men be not bitter to your wives : Wives love your Husbands , for bad words Have drawn a hundred thousand swords . Let Love and Patience both agree , To keep us all in Amity ; Then all our bloody Broils will cease , God save the King , and send us Peace . With Allowance . London , Printed by E. Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 