The Bride's Burial . To the Tune of , The Lady's Fallen , etc COme mourn , come mourn with me , you loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeds of woe , whom gripping grief does thrall : Like to the dropping vine , cut by the gardner's knife , Even so my heart with sorrow slave , does bleed for my sweet wife . By death , that grisly ghost , my turtledove is slave , And I am left , unhappy man , to spend my days in pain . Her beauty late so bright , like roses in their prime , Is wasted like the mountain's snow , by force of Phoebus shine , Her fair read coloured cheeks , now pale and won her eyes , That late did shine like crystal stars , alas , their light it die ; Her pretty lily hands , with fingers long and small , In colour like the earthly clay , yea , cold and stiff withal . When as the morningstar , her golden gates had spread , And that the glistering sun arose forth from fair These bed : Then did my love awake , most like a lily-flower , And as the lovely Queen of heaven , so shone she in her bower . Attired was she then like Flora in her pride , As fair as any of Diana's nymphs , so looked my loving bride . And as fair Hellen's face , gave Grecian dams the lurch , So did my dear exceed in sighed , all virgins in the church . When he had knit the knot , of holy wedlock-band , Like alabaster joyn'd to jet , so stood we hand in hand : Then lo a chilling cold struck every vital part , And gripping grief like pangs of death seiz'd on my true love's heart . Down in a swoon she fell , as cold as any stone , Like Venus picture lacking life , so was my love brounght home : At length my roast read , throughout her comely face , As Phoebus beams with watery clouds , o'er covered for a space . With a grievous groan , and voice both hoarse and dry , Farewell , quoth she , my loving friend , for I this day must die : The messenger of God , with golden trumpet I see , With many other angels more , which found and call for me . Instead of music sweet go towl my passing-bell , And with sweet flowers strow my grave , that in my chamber smell ; Strip off my bride's array , my cork-shoes from my feet , And gentle mother be not coy , to bring my winding-sheet . My wedding-dinner dressed , bestow upon the poor , And on the hungry , needy , mam'd , that craves at the door : Instead of virgins young my bridebed for to see , Go cause some curious carpenter to make a chest for me . My bridelaces of silk , bestow'd on maiden's meet , May fitly serve when I am dead to tie my hands and feet . And thou my lover true , my husband and my friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , and humbly on your knee , Direct your prayers unto God , but mourn no more for me : In love as we have liv'd , in love let us depart , And I in token of my love , do kiss thee with my heart . O staunch those bootless tears , thy weeping is in vain , I am not lost , for we in heaven , shall one day meet again . With that she turn'd aside , as one dispos'd to sleep , And like a lamb departed life , whose friends did sorely weep . Her true love seeing this , did fetch a grievous groan , As tho' his heart would burst in too , and thus he made his moan : Oh dismal and unhappy day , a day of grief and care , That hath bereft the sun so high , whose beams refresh the air . Now woe unto the world , and all that therein dwell , Oh that I were with thee in heaven , for here I live in hell . And now this lover lives a discontented life , Whose bride was brought unto her grav [ e ] a maiden and a wife . A garland fresh and fair of lilies there was made , In sign of her virginity , and on her coffin laid : Six maidens all in white did bear her to the ground , The bells' did ring in solemn sort , and made a doleful found . In earth they laid her then , for hungry worms a prey , So shall the fairest face alive at length be brought to clay . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order London : Printed by and for W.O. for A. M. sold b [ y ] [ the ] Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge The Bride's Burial . To the Tune of , The Lady's Fallen , etc COme mourn , come mourn with me , you loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeds of woe , whom gripping grief does thrall : Like to the dropping vine , cut by the gardner's knife , Even so my heart with sorrow slave , does bleed for my sweet wife . By death , that grisly ghost , my turtledove is slave , And I am left , unhappy man , to spend my days in pain . Her beauty late so bright , like roses in their prime , Is wasted like the mountain's snow , by force of Phoebus shine , Her fair read coloured cheeks , now pale and won her eyes , That late did shine like crystal stars , alas , their light it die ; Her pretty lily hands , with fingers long and small , In colour like the earthly clay , yea , cold and stiff withal . When as the morningstar , her golden gates had spread , And that the glistering sun arose forth from fair These bed : Then did my love awake , most like a lily-flower , And as the lovely Queen of heaven , so shone she in her bower . Attired was she then like Flora in her pride , As fair as any of Diana's nymphs , so looked my loving bride . And as fair Hellen's face , gave Grecian dams the lurch , So did my dear exceed in sighed , all virgins in the church . When he had knit the knot , of holy wedlock-band , Like alabaster joyn'd to jet , so stood we hand in hand : Then lo a chilling cold struck every vital part , And gripping grief like pangs of death seiz'd on my true love's heart . Down in a swoon she fell , as cold as any stone , Like Venus picture lacking life , so was my love brounght home : At length my roast read , throughout her comely face , As Phoebus beams with watery clouds , o'er covered for a space . With a grievous groan , and voice both hoarse and dry , Farewell , quoth she , my loving friend , for I this day must die : The messenger of God , with golden trumpet I see , With many other angels more , which found and call for me . Instead of music sweet go towl my passing-bell , And with sweet flowers strow my grave , that in my chamber smell ; Strip off my bride's array , my cork-shoes from my feet , And gentle mother be not coy , to bring my winding-sheet . My wedding-dinner dressed , bestow upon the poor , And on the hungry , needy , mam'd , that craves at the door : Instead of virgins young my bridebed for to see , Go cause some curious carpenter to make a chest for me . My bridelaces of silk , bestow'd on maiden's meet , May fitly serve when I am dead to tie my hands and feet . And thou my lover true , my husband and my friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , and humbly on your knee , Direct your prayers unto God , but mourn no more for me : In love as we have liv'd , in love let us depart , And I in token of my love , do kiss thee with my heart . O staunch those bootless tears , thy weeping is in vain , I am not lost , for we in heaven , shall one day meet again . With that she turn'd aside , as one dispos'd to sleep , And like a lamb departed life , whose friends did sorely weep . Her true love seeing this , did fetch a grievous groan , As tho' his heart would burst in too , and thus he made his moan : Oh dismal and unhappy day , a day of grief and care , That hath bereft the sun so high , whose beams refresh the air . Now woe unto the world , and all that therein dwell , Oh that I were with thee in heaven , for here I live in hell . And now this lover lives a discontented life , Whose bride was brought unto her grav [ e ] a maiden and a wife . A garland fresh and fair of lilies there was made , In sign of her virginity , and on her coffin laid : Six maidens all in white did bear her to the ground , The bells' did ring in solemn sort , and made a doleful found . In earth they laid her then , for hungry worms a prey , So shall the fairest face alive at length be brought to clay . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order London : Printed by and for W.O. for A. M. sold b [ y ] [ the ] Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge 