The BITER BITTEN , OR , The Broker well-fitted by the Joiner , and the Joiners Wife . This Crafty Knave , thought to Enslave , in sending for his Wife ; The Gold they keep , and he may Weep , to mend his Wicked Life . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R.P. A Lusty stout Joiner he had a fair Wife . A Broker he loved as dear as his life ; He sought by all cunning how he might ensnare , And draw into evil this beautiful fair . The Broker he courted this beautiful dame , So hight and so eager he was at the game ; He said twenty Guineys on thee I'le bestow , If thou wilt be willing some kindness to show . With modest behaviour his suit she deny'd , And would in his presence no longer abide ; But telling her husband for what he did sue , And likewise the Guineys he proffer'd her too . The Joiner he smiled when hearing this news , And likewise was loath such a booty to lose ; He bid her seem willing & take the reward , And tell him at night you will kindness afford . Now by his inventions a snare he had laid , Wherein this rich Broker in short was betray'd ; Next proffer of kindness , she ceasing to frown , Ask him for his Guineys he tender'd them down . Then home to her chamber she did him invite , To come about eight of the clock in the night ; For my unkind husband hath taken his rome , To see his relations and left me at home . The Broker he kissed her and caper'd for joy , Because she no longer did seem to be coy ; He thought e'ry hour as long as a day , But now you shall hear how they did him betray . The long looked for hour at length he beheld , His heart with abundance of joy then was fill'd She shew'd him his lodgding where he was to lie , [ ... ] While he lay expecting his Amorous Dame , They sent for his Wife , who immediately came ; To whom the whole story at length they did tell , And bid her with patience her sorrow expel . His Wife was amazed at what they had told , And being resolved likewise to behold : The depth of this frolic before she did go , They likewise was willing that it should be so . The Joiner and his Wife they tarry'd below , While she to her husband in her stead did go : And when she came almost unto the Bedside , Oh why did'st thou tarry so long he reply'd . She being not hasty to pull off her clothes , The Broker in kindness immediately rose , With kisses he call'd her the joy of his life , Supposing it had been the Joiners fair wife . She softly did whisper , it is a great since , Which your found allurements are drawing me in ; I ne'r in my life did commit such a crime , And therefore I now am unwilling this time . My dear be not fearful but let us enjoy , Our freedom of pleasure , here none can annoy : I'le give thee choice Jewels with plenty of Gold , Let me not stand courting my love in the cold . These large protestations I pray Sir forbear , Since you have a Wife that is beauteous and fair : Said he , she was never admired by me , I love thee a thousand times better then she . He knew not he talked to his wife all the while , At length she began for to rant and revile , She teas'd him and tore him about in his Shirt , Nay kicked him and thumpt him and beatrice him like dirt . It was in the dark , and she having a Mask , He thought that the Devil had took him to task : The heat of her fury she never forbears , Until she had tumbl'd him headlong down stairs . His head knees and Elbows was broke with the fallen , For mercy and pity the Broker did call : But yet such a peal in his ears she did ring , He wish'd he had never attempted the thing . The Joiner and his Wife they parted the fray ; But never a word of the Guinneys did say , Nor yet the poor Broker , alas , for his life , For fear of the anger and rage of his wife . The Broker he said , my sweet Wife now forgive This thing , and I'le ne'r do the like while I live : In pity she pardon'd her husband his crime , And likewise she bid him [ ? ] The BITER BITTEN , OR , The Broker well-fitted by the Joiner , and the Joiners Wife . This Crafty Knave , thought to Enslave , in sending for his Wife ; The Gold they keep , and he may Weep , to mend his Wicked Life . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R.P. A Lusty stout Joiner he had a fair Wife . A Broker he loved as dear as his life ; He sought by all cunning how he might ensnare , And draw into evil this beautiful fair . The Broker he courted this beautiful dame , So hight and so eager he was at the game ; He said twenty Guineys on thee I'le bestow , If thou wilt be willing some kindness to show . With modest behaviour his suit she deny'd , And would in his presence no longer abide ; But telling her husband for what he did sue , And likewise the Guineys he proffer'd her too . The Joiner he smiled when hearing this news , And likewise was loath such a booty to lose ; He bid her seem willing & take the reward , And tell him at night you will kindness afford . Now by his inventions a snare he had laid , Wherein this rich Broker in short was betray'd ; Next proffer of kindness , she ceasing to frown , Ask him for his Guineys he tender'd them down . Then home to her chamber she did him invite , To come about eight of the clock in the night ; For my unkind husband hath taken his rome , To see his relations and left me at home . The Broker he kissed her and caper'd for joy , Because she no longer did seem to be coy ; He thought e'ry hour as long as a day , But now you shall hear how they did him betray . The long looked for hour at length he beheld , His heart with abundance of joy then was fill'd She shew'd him his lodgding where he was to lie , [ ... ] While he lay expecting his Amorous Dame , They sent for his Wife , who immediately came ; To whom the whole story at length they did tell , And bid her with patience her sorrow expel . His Wife was amazed at what they had told , And being resolved likewise to behold : The depth of this frolic before she did go , They likewise was willing that it should be so . The Joiner and his Wife they tarry'd below , While she to her husband in her stead did go : And when she came almost unto the Bedside , Oh why did'st thou tarry so long he reply'd . She being not hasty to pull off her clothes , The Broker in kindness immediately rose , With kisses he call'd her the joy of his life , Supposing it had been the Joiners fair wife . She softly did whisper , it is a great since , Which your found allurements are drawing me in ; I ne'r in my life did commit such a crime , And therefore I now am unwilling this time . My dear be not fearful but let us enjoy , Our freedom of pleasure , here none can annoy : I'le give thee choice Jewels with plenty of Gold , Let me not stand courting my love in the cold . These large protestations I pray Sir forbear , Since you have a Wife that is beauteous and fair : Said he , she was never admired by me , I love thee a thousand times better then she . He knew not he talked to his wife all the while , At length she began for to rant and revile , She teas'd him and tore him about in his Shirt , Nay kicked him and thumpt him and beatrice him like dirt . It was in the dark , and she having a Mask , He thought that the Devil had took him to task : The heat of her fury she never forbears , Until she had tumbl'd him headlong down stairs . His head knees and Elbows was broke with the fallen , For mercy and pity the Broker did call : But yet such a peal in his ears she did ring , He wish'd he had never attempted the thing . The Joiner and his Wife they parted the fray ; But never a word of the Guinneys did say , Nor yet the poor Broker , alas , for his life , For fear of the anger and rage of his wife . The Broker he said , my sweet Wife now forgive This thing , and I'le ne'r do the like while I live : In pity she pardon'd her husband his crime , And likewise she bid him [ ? ] The BITER BITTEN , OR , The Broker well-fitted by the Joiner , and the Joiners Wife . This Crafty Knave , thought to Enslave , in sending for his Wife ; The Gold they keep , and he may Weep , to mend his Wicked Life . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R.P. A Lusty stout Joiner he had a fair Wife . A Broker he loved as dear as his life ; He sought by all cunning how he might ensnare , And draw into evil this beautiful fair . The Broker he courted this beautiful dame , So hight and so eager he was at the game ; He said twenty Guineys on thee I'le bestow , If thou wilt be willing some kindness to show . With modest behaviour his suit she deny'd , And would in his presence no longer abide ; But telling her husband for what he did sue , And likewise the Guineys he proffer'd her too . The Joiner he smiled when hearing this news , And likewise was loath such a booty to lose ; He bid her seem willing & take the reward , And tell him at night you will kindness afford . Now by his inventions a snare he had laid , Wherein this rich Broker in short was betray'd ; Next proffer of kindness , she ceasing to frown , Ask him for his Guineys he tender'd them down . Then home to her chamber she did him invite , To come about eight of the clock in the night ; For my unkind husband hath taken his rome , To see his relations and left me at home . The Broker he kissed her and caper'd for joy , Because she no longer did seem to be coy ; He thought e'ry hour as long as a day , But now you shall hear how they did him betray . The long looked for hour at length he beheld , His heart with abundance of joy then was fill'd She shew'd him his lodgding where he was to lie , [ And solemnly said she would come by and by . ] While he lay expecting his Amorous Dame , They sent for his Wife , who immediately came ; To whom the whole story at length they did tell , And bid her with patience her sorrow expel . His Wife was amazed at what they had told , And being resolved likewise to behold : The depth of this frolic before she did go , They likewise was willing that it should be so . The Joiner and his Wife they tarry'd below , While she to her husband in her stead did go : And when she came almost unto the Bedside , Oh why did'st thou tarry so long he reply'd . She being not hasty to pull off her clothes , The Broker in kindness immediately rose , With kisses he call'd her the joy of his life , Supposing it had been the Joiners fair wife . She softly did whisper , it is a great since , Which your found allurements are drawing me in ; I ne'r in my life did commit such a crime , And therefore I now am unwilling this time . My dear be not fearful but let us enjoy , Our freedom of pleasure , here none can annoy : I'le give thee choice Jewels with plenty of Gold , Let me not stand courting my love in the cold . These large protestations I pray Sir forbear , Since you have a Wife that is beauteous and fair : Said he , she was never admired by me , I love thee a thousand times better then she . He knew not he talked to his wife all the while , At length she began for to rant and revile , She teas'd him and tore him about in his Shirt , Nay kicked him and thumpt him and beatrice him like dirt . It was in the dark , and she having a Mask , He thought that the Devil had took him to task : The heat of her fury she never forbears , Until she had tumbl'd him headlong down stairs . His head knees and Elbows was broke with the fallen , For mercy and pity the Broker did call : But yet such a peal in his ears she did ring , He wish'd he had never attempted the thing . The Joiner and his Wife they parted the fray ; But never a word of the Guinneys did say , Nor yet the poor Broker , alas , for his life , For fear of the anger and rage of his wife . The Broker he said , my sweet Wife now forgive This thing , and I'le ne'r do the like while I live : In pity she pardon'd her husband his crime , And likewise she bid him [ beware the next time . ] [ Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . ] The BITER BITTEN , OR , The Broker well-fitted by the Joiner , and the Joiners Wife . This Crafty Knave , thought to Enslave , in sending for his Wife ; The Gold they keep , and he may Weep , to mend his Wicked Life . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R.P. A Lusty stout Joiner he had a fair Wife . A Broker he loved as dear as his life ; He sought by all cunning how he might ensnare , And draw into evil this beautiful fair . The Broker he courted this beautiful dame , So hight and so eager he was at the game ; He said twenty Guineys on thee I'le bestow , If thou wilt be willing some kindness to show . With modest behaviour his suit she deny'd , And would in his presence no longer abide ; But telling her husband for what he did sue , And likewise the Guineys he proffer'd her too . The Joiner he smiled when hearing this news , And likewise was loath such a booty to lose ; He bid her seem willing & take the reward , And tell him at night you will kindness afford . Now by his inventions a snare he had laid , Wherein this rich Broker in short was betray'd ; Next proffer of kindness , she ceasing to frown , Ask him for his Guineys he tender'd them down . Then home to her chamber she did him invite , To come about eight of the clock in the night ; For my unkind husband hath taken his rome , To see his relations and left me at home . The Broker he kissed her and caper'd for joy , Because she no longer did seem to be coy ; He thought e'ry hour as long as a day , But now you shall hear how they did him betray . The long looked for hour at length he beheld , His heart with abundance of joy then was fill'd She shew'd him his lodgding where he was to lie , [ And solemnly said she would come by and by . ] While he lay expecting his Amorous Dame , They sent for his Wife , who immediately came ; To whom the whole story at length they did tell , And bid her with patience her sorrow expel . His Wife was amazed at what they had told , And being resolved likewise to behold : The depth of this frolic before she did go , They likewise was willing that it should be so . The Joiner and his Wife they tarry'd below , While she to her husband in her stead did go : And when she came almost unto the Bedside , Oh why did'st thou tarry so long he reply'd . She being not hasty to pull off her clothes , The Broker in kindness immediately rose , With kisses he call'd her the joy of his life , Supposing it had been the Joiners fair wife . She softly did whisper , it is a great since , Which your found allurements are drawing me in ; I ne'r in my life did commit such a crime , And therefore I now am unwilling this time . My dear be not fearful but let us enjoy , Our freedom of pleasure , here none can annoy : I'le give thee choice Jewels with plenty of Gold , Let me not stand courting my love in the cold . These large protestations I pray Sir forbear , Since you have a Wife that is beauteous and fair : Said he , she was never admired by me , I love thee a thousand times better then she . He knew not he talked to his wife all the while , At length she began for to rant and revile , She teas'd him and tore him about in his Shirt , Nay kicked him and thumpt him and beatrice him like dirt . It was in the dark , and she having a Mask , He thought that the Devil had took him to task : The heat of her fury she never forbears , Until she had tumbl'd him headlong down stairs . His head knees and Elbows was broke with the fallen , For mercy and pity the Broker did call : But yet such a peal in his ears she did ring , He wish'd he had never attempted the thing . The Joiner and his Wife they parted the fray ; But never a word of the Guinneys did say , Nor yet the poor Broker , alas , for his life , For fear of the anger and rage of his wife . The Broker he said , my sweet Wife now forgive This thing , and I'le ne'r do the like while I live : In pity she pardon'd her husband his crime , And likewise she bid him [ beware the next time . ] [ Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . ] 