The Merchant's Daughter of Bristow . The tune is , the Maidens joy . BEhold the Touchstone of true Love , Maudlin the Merchant's daughter of Bristow Town , Whose firm affection nothing could move , This favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by ; Which many years had born this maiden great good will She loved him so faithfully , But all her friends withstood it still , The young man now perceiving well , He could not get nor win the favour of her friends , The force of sorrows to expel , To view strange Countries he intends , And now to take his last farewell , Of his true love his fair and constant Maudlin , With Music sweet that did excel , He played under her window then , Farewell quoth he my own true Love , Farewell my dear and chiefest Treasure of my heart , Through fortune's spite that false did prove , I am inforc'd from thee to part , Into the Land of Italy , There will I wail and weary out my life in woe , Seeing my true Love is kept from me . I hold my life a mortal foe . Fair Bristow Town therefore adieu , For Padua shall be my habitation now , Although my Love does rest in thee . To whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears thus did he sing , With sighs and sobs descending from his heart full soar , He said when he his hands did wring , Farewell sweet Love for evermore , Fair Maudlin from a window high , Beholding her true Love with Music where he stood . But not a word she dirst reply , Fearing her Parents angry mood . In tears she spent that woeful night , Wishing her self though naked with her faithful Friend She blames her friends and fortune's spite , That wrought her love such luckless end . And in her heart she made a vow , Clean to forsake her country and her kindred all , And for to follow her true love . To abide all chance that might befall The night is gone and the day is come . And in the morning very early did she rise , She gets her down into a lower Room , Where sundry Seamen she espies . A gallant Master among them all , The Master of a great and goodly ship was he , Who there was waiting in the Hall , To speak with her Father if it might be , She kindly takes him by the hand , Good sir said she and would you speak with any here , Quoth he fair Maid therefore I do stand , Then gentle sir I pray draw near . Into a pleasant parlour by , With hand in hand she brings the Seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteously , She thus to him did make her moan , She falls upon her tender knee , Good sir said she now pity you a woman's woe . And prove a faithful friend to me : That I to you my grief may show , Sith you repose your trust he said , In me who am unknown and eke a stranger here . Be you assur'd most proper maid , Most faithful still I will appear , I have a brother then quoth she , Whom as my life I love and favour tenderly . In Padua alas is he , Full sick God wot and like to die , Full fain I would my brother see . But that my Father will not yield to let me go , Therefore good sir be good to me , And unto me this favour show ; Some ship boys Garment bring to me , That I disguis'd may go unknown , And unto Sea I'll go with thee . If thus much favour might be shown , Fair maid quoth he take here my hand , I will fulfil each thing that you desire , And set you safe in that same Land. And in that place that you require . She gave him then a tender kiss , And says to him your servant Master will I be ; And prove your faithful friend for this , Sweet master then forget not me , This done as they had both agreed , Soon after that before the break of day , He brings her garments then with speed , Therein her self she did array , And ere her Father did arise , She meets her Master as he walked in the hall . She did attend on him likewise , Until her Father did him call , But ere the Merchant made and end , Of all his weighty matters he had then to say , His wife came weeping in with speed , Saying our Daughters gone away , The Merchant then am [ a ] z'd in mind , Yonder vile wretch intic'd away my child quoth she , But I well wot I shall him find At padua in I [ tO ] aly With that bespoke their master brave Woe , shipfull merchant thither goes this pretty youth , And any thing that you would crave , he will perform and write the truth , Sweet youth quoth he if it be so , Bear me a leter to the English merchant there and gold on thee I will bestow , My daughters welfare I do fear , her mother took her by the hand , Fair youth quoth she if ere thou dost my daughter see , Let me therefore soon understand , and there is twenty crowns for thee , Thus through the daughters strange disguise , The mother knew not when she spoke unto her child , and after her master stright she hies , Taking her leave with countenance mild , Thus to the Sea fair Maudlins gone , With her gentle master God send them a merry mind . Where we a while must let them alone , Till you the second part do find , WElcome sweet Maudlin from the Seas , where bitter storms and tempests do arise The pleasant banks of Italy You may behold with mortal eyes Thanks gentle master then said she , A faithful friend in sorrow thou hast been , If fortune once do smile on me . My gentle heart shall soon be seen . blessed be the land that feeds my love blessed be the place whereas his person does abide No trial will I stick to prove Whereby my truelove may be tri'd . Now will I walk with joy full heart To view the town whereas my darling does remain And seek him out in every p art , Until his sighed I do obtain . And I quoth he will not forsake . Sweet Maudlin in her sorrows up and dow [ n ] In wealth or woe thy part isle take , And bring thee safe to padua town And after many weary steps In Padua they safe arrived at the last For very joy her heart it leaps She thinks not on her sorrows passed Condemn'd to die he was alas Except he would from his Religion turn , but rather then he would to mass In fiery flames he vow'd to burn . Now does sweet Maudlin weep and wail , Her joy is turn'd to weeping sorrow grief and care , For nothing could her plaints prevail , For death alone must be his share . She walks under the prison walls Where her true love did lie and languish in distress When woefully for food he calls , When hunger did his heart oppress . he sighs a and sobs and makes great moan , Farewell sweet love for ev [ e ] rmore . And all my friends that have me known , In bristol town with wealth and store , but most of all farewell quoth he My own sweet Maudlin whom I left behind . For never more thou shalt me see . Woe to thy father most unkind , how well were I if [ tO ] how were here With thy fair hands to close these my wretched eyes My torments easy would appear My soul with joy should scale the Skies . When Maudlin herd her Lovers moan her eyes with tears her heart with sorrow filled was To speak with him no meam was known Such grievous doom on him did pass . Then she put off her lads attire her maidens weed upon her back she seemly set To the judges house she did inquire . And there she did a service get She did her duty there so well Ant eke so prudently she did herself behave With her in love her master fell , his servants favour he does crave , Maudlin quoth he my hearts delight , To whom my heart in affection is tied , breed not my death through thy despite , A faithful friend thou shalt me find Oh grant me thy love fair maid quoth he And at my hands desire what thou canst devise And I will grant it unto thee Whereby thy credit may arise . I have a brother sir said she For his Religion is now condemn . worser to die . , In loathsome prison he is cast Oppressed wi [ tO ] h grief and misery Grant me my brother's life she said And now to you my love and liking will I give that may not be quoth he fair maid Except he turn he cannot live and [ E ] nglish Fryer ehere is sh [ e ] said Of [ lea ] rning great and assing pure of life Let him to my brother be sent and he will finish soon thr strife . Her master granted her request The Mariner in Friars weeds she did array And to her love that lay distressed She did a letter soon convey . When he had read [ tO ] hese gentle lines his heart was ravished with present joy Where now she is full well he knew The Fryer likewise was not coy but did declare to him at large The enterprise his love for him had taken in hand The youngman did the Friar charge His love should straight depart the land he The Merchant's Daughter of Bristow . The tune is , the Maidens joy . BEhold the Touchstone of true Love , Maudlin the Merchant's daughter of Bristow Town , Whose firm affection nothing could move , This favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by ; Which many years had born this maiden great good will She loved him so faithfully , But all her friends withstood it still , The young man now perceiving well , He could not get nor win the favour of her friends , The force of sorrows to expel , To view strange Countries he intends , And now to take his last farewell , Of his true love his fair and constant Maudlin , With Music sweet that did excel , He played under her window then , Farewell quoth he my own true Love , Farewell my dear and chiefest Treasure of my heart , Through fortune's spite that false did prove , I am inforc'd from thee to part , Into the Land of Italy , There will I wail and weary out my life in woe , Seeing my true Love is kept from me . I hold my life a mortal foe . Fair Bristow Town therefore adieu , For Padua shall be my habitation now , Although my Love does rest in thee . To whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears thus did he sing , With sighs and sobs descending from his heart full soar , He said when he his hands did wring , Farewell sweet Love for evermore , Fair Maudlin from a window high , Beholding her true Love with Music where he stood . But not a word she dirst reply , Fearing her Parents angry mood . In tears she spent that woeful night , Wishing her self though naked with her faithful Friend She blames her friends and fortune's spite , That wrought her love such luckless end . And in her heart she made a vow , Clean to forsake her country and her kindred all , And for to follow her true love . To abide all chance that might befall The night is gone and the day is come . And in the morning very early did she rise , She gets her down into a lower Room , Where sundry Seamen she espies . A gallant Master among them all , The Master of a great and goodly ship was he , Who there was waiting in the Hall , To speak with her Father if it might be , She kindly takes him by the hand , Good sir said she and would you speak with any here , Quoth he fair Maid therefore I do stand , Then gentle sir I pray draw near . Into a pleasant parlour by , With hand in hand she brings the Seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteously , She thus to him did make her moan , She falls upon her tender knee , Good sir said she now pity you a woman's woe . And prove a faithful friend to me : That I to you my grief may show , Sith you repose your trust he said , In me who am unknown and eke a stranger here . Be you assur'd most proper maid , Most faithful still I will appear , I have a brother then quoth she , Whom as my life I love and favour tenderly . In Padua alas is he , Full sick God wot and like to die , Full fain I would my brother see . But that my Father will not yield to let me go , Therefore good sir be good to me , And unto me this favour show ; Some ship boys Garment bring to me , That I disguis'd may go unknown , And unto Sea I'll go with thee . If thus much favour might be shown , Fair maid quoth he take here my hand , I will fulfil each thing that you desire , And set you safe in that same Land. And in that place that you require . She gave him then a tender kiss , And says to him your servant Master will I be ; And prove your faithful friend for this , Sweet master then forget not me , This done as they had both agreed , Soon after that before the break of day , He brings her garments then with speed , Therein her self she did array , And ere her Father did arise , She meets her Master as he walked in the hall . She did attend on him likewise , Until her Father did him call , But ere the Merchant made and end , Of all his weighty matters he had then to say , His wife came weeping in with speed , Saying our Daughters gone away , The Merchant then am [ a ] z'd in mind , Yonder vile wretch intic'd away my child quoth she , But I well wot I shall him find At padua in I [ tO ] aly With that bespoke their master brave Woe , shipfull merchant thither goes this pretty youth , And any thing that you would crave , he will perform and write the truth , Sweet youth quoth he if it be so , Bear me a leter to the English merchant there and gold on thee I will bestow , My daughters welfare I do fear , her mother took her by the hand , Fair youth quoth she if ere thou dost my daughter see , Let me therefore soon understand , and there is twenty crowns for thee , Thus through the daughters strange disguise , The mother knew not when she spoke unto her child , and after her master stright she hies , Taking her leave with countenance mild , Thus to the Sea fair Maudlins gone , With her gentle master God send them a merry mind . Where we a while must let them alone , Till you the second part do find , WElcome sweet Maudlin from the Seas , where bitter storms and tempests do arise The pleasant banks of Italy You may behold with mortal eyes Thanks gentle master then said she , A faithful friend in sorrow thou hast been , If fortune once do smile on me . My gentle heart shall soon be seen . blessed be the land that feeds my love blessed be the place whereas his person does abide No trial will I stick to prove Whereby my truelove may be tri'd . Now will I walk with joy full heart To view the town whereas my darling does remain And seek him out in every p art , Until his sighed I do obtain . And I quoth he will not forsake . Sweet Maudlin in her sorrows up and dow [ n ] In wealth or woe thy part isle take , And bring thee safe to padua town And after many weary steps In Padua they safe arrived at the last For very joy her heart it leaps She thinks not on her sorrows passed Condemn'd to die he was alas Except he would from his Religion turn , but rather then he would to mass In fiery flames he vow'd to burn . Now does sweet Maudlin weep and wail , Her joy is turn'd to weeping sorrow grief and care , For nothing could her plaints prevail , For death alone must be his share . She walks under the prison walls Where her true love did lie and languish in distress When woefully for food he calls , When hunger did his heart oppress . he sighs a and sobs and makes great moan , Farewell sweet love for ev [ e ] rmore . And all my friends that have me known , In bristol town with wealth and store , but most of all farewell quoth he My own sweet Maudlin whom I left behind . For never more thou shalt me see . Woe to thy father most unkind , how well were I if [ tO ] how were here With thy fair hands to close these my wretched eyes My torments easy would appear My soul with joy should scale the Skies . When Maudlin herd her Lovers moan her eyes with tears her heart with sorrow filled was To speak with him no meam was known Such grievous doom on him did pass . Then she put off her lads attire her maidens weed upon her back she seemly set To the judges house she did inquire . And there she did a service get She did her duty there so well Ant eke so prudently she did herself behave With her in love her master fell , his servants favour he does crave , Maudlin quoth he my hearts delight , To whom my heart in affection is tied , breed not my death through thy despite , A faithful friend thou shalt me find Oh grant me thy love fair maid quoth he And at my hands desire what thou canst devise And I will grant it unto thee Whereby thy credit may arise . I have a brother sir said she For his Religion is now condemn . worser to die . , In loathsome prison he is cast Oppressed wi [ tO ] h grief and misery Grant me my brother's life she said And now to you my love and liking will I give that may not be quoth he fair maid Except he turn he cannot live and [ E ] nglish Fryer ehere is sh [ e ] said Of [ lea ] rning great and assing pure of life Let him to my brother be sent and he will finish soon thr strife . Her master granted her request The Mariner in Friars weeds she did array And to her love that lay distressed She did a letter soon convey . When he had read [ tO ] hese gentle lines his heart was ravished with present joy Where now she is full well he knew The Fryer likewise was not coy but did declare to him at large The enterprise his love for him had taken in hand The youngman did the Friar charge His love should straight depart the land here is no place for her he said , But woeful death and danger of her life , Professing truth I was betrayed . And fearful flames must end the strife . For ere I will my faith deny and swear my self to follow damned anti-christ I'll yield my body for to die . To live in heaven with the highest O sir the gentle friar said A woeful match quoth he is amnde Where Christ is left to Win a wife . When she had us'd all me ans she might To save his life and yet all would not be , then of the judge she claim d her right to die the death as well as he . When no persuasion could prevail Nor change her mind in any thing that she had said She was with him condemn'd to die and for them both one fire was made . Yea arm in arm most joyfully these lovers tWain unto the fire did go The Mariner most faithfully Was likewise partner of this Wo. but When the judges understood The faithful friendship did in them remain they sav'd rheir lives and afterwards to England sent them back again Now was their sorrow turn'd to joy and faithful lovers have their herts desire their pains so well they did employ God granted that they did desire . and when they did to Englandeome and in merry bristol arrived at i last Great joy there was to all and some That herd the dangers they had passed Her father he was dead Got wot and eke her mother was joyful at her sighed Their wishes she denied not . but wedded them to hearts delight . Her gentle master she desired . to be her father and at church to give her then It was fulfill'd as she requir'd Unto the joys of all good men . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . re is no place for her he said , But woeful death and danger of her life , Professing truth I was betrayed . And fearful flames must end the strife . For ere I will my faith deny and swear my self to follow damned anti-christ I'll yield my body for to die . To live in heaven with the highest O sir the gentle friar said A woeful match quoth he is amnde Where Christ is left to Win a wife . When she had us'd all me ans she might To save his life and yet all would not be , then of the judge she claim d her right to die the death as well as he . When no persuasion could prevail Nor change her mind in any thing that she had said She was with him condemn'd to die and for them both one fire was made . Yea arm in arm most joyfully these lovers tWain unto the fire did go The Mariner most faithfully Was likewise partner of this Wo. but When the judges understood The faithful friendship did in them remain they sav'd rheir lives and afterwards to England sent them back again Now was their sorrow turn'd to joy and faithful lovers have their herts desire their pains so well they did employ God granted that they did desire . and when they did to Englandeome and in merry bristol arrived at i last Great joy there was to all and some That herd the dangers they had passed Her father he was dead Got wot and eke her mother was joyful at her sighed Their wishes she denied not . but wedded them to hearts delight . Her gentle master she desired . to be her father and at church to give her then It was fulfill'd as she requir'd Unto the joys of all good men . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 