The Catholic Ballad : OR AND INVITATION TO POPERY , Upon considerable Grounds and Reasons . To the Tune of 88. SInce Pop'ry of late is so much in debate , And great strivings have been to restore it , I cannot forbear openly to declare , That the Ballad-makers are for it . We'l dispute no more , these Heretical men , have exposed our Books unto laughter , So that many do say , 'twill be our best way To sing for the Cause hereafter . O the Catholic Cause ! now assist me my Muse , How earnestly do I desire thee ! Neither will I pray to St. Bridget to day , But only to thee to inspire me . Whence should purity come , but from Catholic Room ? I wonder much at your folly ; For St. Peter was there , and left and old Chair , Enough to make all the world holy . For this sacred old wood is so excellent good , If Tradition may be believed , That whoever sits there needs never more fear The danger of being deceived . If the Devil himself should ( God bless us ) get up Though his nature we know to be evil , Yet while he sat there , as diverse will swear , He would be and infallible Devil . Now who sits in this Seat , but our Father the Pope ? So that here's a plain demonstration , As clear as noonday , we are in the right way , And all others are doom'd to damnation . If this will not suffice , yet to open your eyes , Which are blinded with bad Education ; We have Arguments plenty , & Miracles twenty Enough to convince a whole Nation . If you give but good heed , you shall see the Host bleed , And if any thing can persuade you , And Image shall speak , or at least it shall squeak In the honour of our Lady . You shall see without doubt the Devil cast out , As of old by Erra Pater ; He shall skip about and tear like a dancing Bear When he feels the Holy Water . If yet doubtful you are , we have Relics most rare , We can show you the sacred Manger ; Several loads of the Cross , as good as ere was To preserve your souls from danger . Should I tell you of all , it would move a stonewall , But I spare you a little for pity , That each one may prepare , and rub up his ear , For the second part of my Ditty . The Second Part to the same Tune . NOw listen again to those things that remain , They are matters of weight , I assure you , And the first thing I say , throw your Bibles away , 'Tis impossible else for to cure you . O that pestilent Book ! never on it more look , I wish I could speak it out louder : It has dONE more men harm , I dare boldly affirm Than th' Invention of Suns and Powder . As for matters of Faith , believe what the Church says , But for Scripture , leave that to the Learned : For these are edge tools , & you Laymen are fools , If you touch them y'are sure to be harmed . But pray what is it for , that you make all this stir ? You must read , you must hear and be learned : If you'l be on our part , we will teach you and Art , That you need not be so much concerned . Be the Churches good son , and your work is half dONE , After that you may do your own pleasure : If your Beads you can tell , and say Have Mary well , Never doubt of the heavenly treasure . For the Pope keeps the Keys , and can do what he please And without all peradventure , If you cannot at the before , yet at the backdoor of Indulgence you may enter . But first by the way you must make a short stay At a place called Purgatory , Which the Learned us tell , in the buildings of Hell , Is about the middlemost Story . 'Tis a monstrous hight place & a mark of disgrace In the torment on't long to endure : None are kept there but fools & poor pitiful souls Who can no ready money procure . For a handsome round sum you may quickly be gone , For the Church has wisely ordein'd , That they who built Crosses and pay well for Masses Should not there be too long detein'd . So that 'tis a plain case , as the nose on ones face , We are in the surest condition , And none but poor fools & some niggardly owls Need fallen into utter perdition . What aileth you then , Oh you great and rich men , That you will not harken to reason , Since as long as y'have pence , you need scruple no offence , Be it Murder , Adultery , Treason . And you sweet-natured Women , who hold all things common , My addresses to you are most hearty , And to give you your due , you are to us most true And I hope we shall gain the whole party . If you happen to fallen , your Penance shall be small , And although you cannot forgo it , We have for you a cure , if of this you be sure to confess before you go to it . There is one reason yet , which I cannot omit , To those who affect the French Nation , Hereby we advance the Religion of France , The Religion that's only in fashion . If these reasons prevail , ( as how can they fail ? ) To have Popery entertain'd , You cannot conceive , and will hardly believe , What benefits hence may be gain'd . For the Pope shall us bless ( that's not small happiness ) And again we shall see restored The Italian Trade , which formerly made This Land to be so much adored . O the Pictures and Rings , the Beads and fine things , The good words as sweet as honey , All this and much more shall be brought to our door For a little dull English money . Then shall Traffic and Love , and whatever can move Be restor'd again to our Britain , And Learning so common , that every old woman shall obey , Shall lay her Prayers in Latin . Then the Church shall bear sway , and the State Which is now looked upon as a wonder , And the proudest of kings & all temporal things Shall submit and truckle under . And the Parliament too , who have tak'n us to do And have handled us with so much terror , May chance on that score ( this no time to say more ) They may chance to acknowledge their error . If any man yet shall have so little wit As still to be refractory , I swear by the Mass , he is a mere Ass , And so there's and end of a Story . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Henry Brome , at the Gun at the West-end of St. Pauls Churchyard . MDC LXXIV . The Catholic Ballad : OR AND INVITATION TO POPERY , Upon considerable Grounds and Reasons . To the Tune of 88. SInce Pop'ry of late is so much in debate , And great strivings have been to restore it , I cannot forbear openly to declare , That the Ballad-makers are for it . We'l dispute no more , these Heretical men , have exposed our Books unto laughter , So that many do say , 'twill be our best way To sing for the Cause hereafter . O the Catholic Cause ! now assist me my Muse , How earnestly do I desire thee ! Neither will I pray to St. Bridget to day , But only to thee to inspire me . Whence should purity come , but from Catholic Room ? I wonder much at your folly ; For St. Peter was there , and left and old Chair , Enough to make all the world holy . For this sacred old wood is so excellent good , If Tradition may be believed , That whoever sits there needs never more fear The danger of being deceived . If the Devil himself should ( God bless us ) get up Though his nature we know to be evil , Yet while he sat there , as diverse will swear , He would be and infallible Devil . Now who sits in this Seat , but our Father the Pope ? So that here's a plain demonstration , As clear as noonday , we are in the right way , And all others are doom'd to damnation . If this will not suffice , yet to open your eyes , Which are blinded with bad Education ; We have Arguments plenty , & Miracles twenty Enough to convince a whole Nation . If you give but good heed , you shall see the Host bleed , And if any thing can persuade you , And Image shall speak , or at least it shall squeak In the honour of our Lady . You shall see without doubt the Devil cast out , As of old by Erra Pater ; He shall skip about and tear like a dancing Bear When he feels the Holy Water . If yet doubtful you are , we have Relics most rare , We can show you the sacred Manger ; Several loads of the Cross , as good as ere was To preserve your souls from danger . Should I tell you of all , it would move a stonewall , But I spare you a little for pity , That each one may prepare , and rub up his ear , For the second part of my Ditty . The Second Part to the same Tune . NOw listen again to those things that remain , They are matters of weight , I assure you , And the first thing I say , throw your Bibles away , 'Tis impossible else for to cure you . O that pestilent Book ! never on it more look , I wish I could speak it out louder : It has dONE more men harm , I dare boldly affirm Than th' Invention of Suns and Powder . As for matters of Faith , believe what the Church says , But for Scripture , leave that to the Learned : For these are edge tools , & you Laymen are fools , If you touch them y'are sure to be harmed . But pray what is it for , that you make all this stir ? You must read , you must hear and be learned : If you'l be on our part , we will teach you and Art , That you need not be so much concerned . Be the Churches good son , and your work is half dONE , After that you may do your own pleasure : If your Beads you can tell , and say Have Mary well , Never doubt of the heavenly treasure . For the Pope keeps the Keys , and can do what he please And without all peradventure , If you cannot at the before , yet at the backdoor of Indulgence you may enter . But first by the way you must make a short stay At a place called Purgatory , Which the Learned us tell , in the buildings of Hell , Is about the middlemost Story . 'Tis a monstrous hight place & a mark of disgrace In the torment on't long to endure : None are kept there but fools & poor pitiful souls Who can no ready money procure . For a handsome round sum you may quickly be gone , For the Church has wisely ordein'd , That they who built Crosses and pay well for Masses Should not there be too long detein'd . So that 'tis a plain case , as the nose on ones face , We are in the surest condition , And none but poor fools & some niggardly owls Need fallen into utter perdition . What aileth you then , Oh you great and rich men , That you will not harken to reason , Since as long as y'have pence , you need scruple no offence , Be it Murder , Adultery , Treason . And you sweet-natured Women , who hold all things common , My addresses to you are most hearty , And to give you your due , you are to us most true And I hope we shall gain the whole party . If you happen to fallen , your Penance shall be small , And although you cannot forgo it , We have for you a cure , if of this you be sure to confess before you go to it . There is one reason yet , which I cannot omit , To those who affect the French Nation , Hereby we advance the Religion of France , The Religion that's only in fashion . If these reasons prevail , ( as how can they fail ? ) To have Popery entertain'd , You cannot conceive , and will hardly believe , What benefits hence may be gain'd . For the Pope shall us bless ( that's not small happiness ) And again we shall see restored The Italian Trade , which formerly made This Land to be so much adored . O the Pictures and Rings , the Beads and fine things , The good words as sweet as honey , All this and much more shall be brought to our door For a little dull English money . Then shall Traffic and Love , and whatever can move Be restor'd again to our Britain , And Learning so common , that every old woman shall obey , Shall lay her Prayers in Latin . Then the Church shall bear sway , and the State Which is now looked upon as a wonder , And the proudest of kings & all temporal things Shall submit and truckle under . And the Parliament too , who have tak'n us to do And have handled us with so much terror , May chance on that score ( this no time to say more ) They may chance to acknowledge their error . If any man yet shall have so little wit As still to be refractory , I swear by the Mass , he is a mere Ass , And so there's and end of a Story . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Henry Brome , at the Gun at the West-end of St. Pauls Churchyard . MDC LXXIV . 