Cupids Trappan : Or , Up the green Forest . The Scorner Scorned , or Willow turn'd into Coronation . Described in the ranting resolution of a forsaken Maid . To a pleasant new Northern Tune , Now all in fashion . ONce did I love and a bonny bonny Bird , thinking that he had been my own ; But he lov'd another far better then I , and he has taken his flight , & he's flown , brave boys and he has taken his flight and he's flown . Up the green Forest , & down the green Forest , like one much distressed in mind , I hoopt and I hoopt , and I flung up my Hood , but my bonny Bird I could not find , brave boys but my bonny Bird , etc But she that hath got my bonny bonny Bird , would the Devil had had her for me , It was not a Crown , nor a Noble so round , that should have bought my bonny Bird from me , brave boys that should have , etc He set me upon his dissembling knee and looked me all in the face , He gave unto me and a Judas Kiss , but his heart was in another place , brave boys , but his heart was , etc She that hath got my bonny bonney Bird , let her make as much of't as she can ; For whither I have him , or I have him not , I will quaff with him now and than , brave boys I will quaff , etc He told me he lov'd me far better then all the richest Temptation i'th world , Then Treasure or Money , he cal'd me his Honey ; but now from his heart I am hurled , brave boys but now , etc He could not endure to be out of my sighed , he lov'd me like Silver or Gold ; His blood was on fire with the flames of desire , but I find his hight love was soon cold , brave boys but I find , etc His tongue was so tip'd with Temptations that I could have suffer'd him ( without control ) To have done what he wou'd & have humor'd his blood , had the venture been body and soul , brave boys had the venture been , etc And now he requites me with scorn and disdain , some other hath god him from me ; But let her take heed , at the last how she speed , lest a third doe prove better then thee , brave boys lest a third , etc One Man for one Maid , the Creator hath made , he that hath more , hath more then his due ; Sure two is to many , he'l never love any , for twenty Maids will be too few , brave boys . for twenty , etc Those Virgins that take him , I think are stark mad , for he that proves false unto one That loved him like life will be false to his wife I have cause to be glad that he's gone , brave boys . I have cause , The Witchcraft of love , is enough to undo the hearts of poor credulous Creatures , My freedom to me , is far sweeter then he ; for Freedom is softer then Fetters , brave boys for Freedom is , etc If he had continu'd he might'a had all , his Carriage and Wit was so brave ; Although he had like to have given me a fallen , yet the Jewel of Jewels I have , brave boys . yet the Jewel of , etc Which still I will keep from such Gamesters as he , by such I will ne're be betray'd ; My Portion shall be , my Virginity , 'tis Dowry enough for a Maid , brave boys . 'tis Dowry , etc I'le Swagger and Rant , & I'll never think upon't , but bring Willow Garlands in fashion ; Although for my part , my own merry heart shall turn Willow into Coronation , brave boys shall turn , etc I vow to be jolly , brisk , bonny and free , and march under Chastities Banners ; I'le sing , and I'le dance , and my spirits advance in spite of all Cupids Trappanners , brave boys in spite of , etc When he comes disfigur'd & crippl'd from War I'le jeer him , and laugh him to scorn ; His wife too will scoff , when he comes lamely off and give him a Nightcap of Horn , brave boys . and give him , etc All you that are Virgins , and live at your wills be wise and take warning by me ; Near venture your hearts , to a tongue and good parts if the man have no fidelity , brave boys if the man , etc It is better to live in a Virgins degree , then marry a false hearted Mate ; Their cunning shall never , take me in their snare the Devil shall catch them for Kate . brave boys the Devil shall catch them for Kate . FINIS . London , Printed by E Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . With Allowance . Cupids Trappan : Or , Up the green Forest . The Scorner Scorned , or Willow turn'd into Coronation . Described in the ranting resolution of a forsaken Maid . To a pleasant new Northern Tune , Now all in fashion . ONce did I love and a bonny bonny Bird , thinking that he had been my own ; But he lov'd another far better then I , and he has taken his flight , & he's flown , brave boys and he has taken his flight and he's flown . Up the green Forest , & down the green Forest , like one much distressed in mind , I hoopt and I hoopt , and I flung up my Hood , but my bonny Bird I could not find , brave boys but my bonny Bird , etc But she that hath got my bonny bonny Bird , would the Devil had had her for me , It was not a Crown , nor a Noble so round , that should have bought my bonny Bird from me , brave boys that should have , etc He set me upon his dissembling knee and looked me all in the face , He gave unto me and a Judas Kiss , but his heart was in another place , brave boys , but his heart was , etc She that hath got my bonny bonney Bird , let her make as much of't as she can ; For whither I have him , or I have him not , I will quaff with him now and than , brave boys I will quaff , etc He told me he lov'd me far better then all the richest Temptation i'th world , Then Treasure or Money , he cal'd me his Honey ; but now from his heart I am hurled , brave boys but now , etc He could not endure to be out of my sighed , he lov'd me like Silver or Gold ; His blood was on fire with the flames of desire , but I find his hight love was soon cold , brave boys but I find , etc His tongue was so tip'd with Temptations that I could have suffer'd him ( without control ) To have done what he wou'd & have humor'd his blood , had the venture been body and soul , brave boys had the venture been , etc And now he requites me with scorn and disdain , some other hath god him from me ; But let her take heed , at the last how she speed , lest a third doe prove better then thee , brave boys lest a third , etc One Man for one Maid , the Creator hath made , he that hath more , hath more then his due ; Sure two is to many , he'l never love any , for twenty Maids will be too few , brave boys . for twenty , etc Those Virgins that take him , I think are stark mad , for he that proves false unto one That loved him like life will be false to his wife I have cause to be glad that he's gone , brave boys . I have cause , The Witchcraft of love , is enough to undo the hearts of poor credulous Creatures , My freedom to me , is far sweeter then he ; for Freedom is softer then Fetters , brave boys for Freedom is , etc If he had continu'd he might'a had all , his Carriage and Wit was so brave ; Although he had like to have given me a fallen , yet the Jewel of Jewels I have , brave boys . yet the Jewel of , etc Which still I will keep from such Gamesters as he , by such I will ne're be betray'd ; My Portion shall be , my Virginity , 'tis Dowry enough for a Maid , brave boys . 'tis Dowry , etc I'le Swagger and Rant , & I'll never think upon't , but bring Willow Garlands in fashion ; Although for my part , my own merry heart shall turn Willow into Coronation , brave boys shall turn , etc I vow to be jolly , brisk , bonny and free , and march under Chastities Banners ; I'le sing , and I'le dance , and my spirits advance in spite of all Cupids Trappanners , brave boys in spite of , etc When he comes disfigur'd & crippl'd from War I'le jeer him , and laugh him to scorn ; His wife too will scoff , when he comes lamely off and give him a Nightcap of Horn , brave boys . and give him , etc All you that are Virgins , and live at your wills be wise and take warning by me ; Near venture your hearts , to a tongue and good parts if the man have no fidelity , brave boys if the man , etc It is better to live in a Virgins degree , then marry a false hearted Mate ; Their cunning shall never , take me in their snare the Devil shall catch them for Kate . brave boys the Devil shall catch them for Kate . FINIS . London , Printed by E Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . With Allowance . 