THE Merry Hay-Makers ; OR , Pleasant PASTIME , BETWEEN THE Young-Men and Maids , in the Pleasant Meadows . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . IN our Country , in our Country , where Russelers they was a Raking ; And the rarest pastime that ever you see , was when Haycocks they were a making . to be . There's Timmy , and Tommy , with Bottle and Bag , as soon as the Lasses beheld them , Because they did not give them what they worser [ i ] worser lack , adzuggers they swore they would geld them . to be . And did you not know one Volking the Smith , and Marry that went to the Dairy ; O give me quoth she a thing that is soft , for to make me look Buxem and Airy . to be . And down in a dale there was tumble down Dick , with Marry , and Sarah , and Susan . They being in haste for to play the old trick , they leapt into bed with their shoes on . to be . And some they w [ i ] ll Foe [ r ] k , and some they will R [ a ] ke , when merrily they were a Quaffing . And if you had but seen how Jones buttocks did wag , [ ? ] would a broke a men sides out of laughing . to be . Young Bridget came next and plaguely Vexed , with fury she fell upon Robin , His Clatter-de-vengance adzuggers she claw'd , 'cause he with young Kate had been bobbing . to be . With that he made bold with speed to take hold , of Bridgets young Chitter-de-widgeon , He threw her along , but did it not wrong , because it was just upon fledging . to be . Her mother came by , and as she drew nigh , the sighed put her into a laughter ; His buttocks she hang'd , and bidhim be hang'd , for playing the fool with her daughter . to be . The men and the maids they love their comrades , above any paltry riches ; Quoth Nancy to Dick adzuggers I'm sick , for something thou hast in thy Breeches . to be . What sayest thou me so then to it we'll go , thou shalt have thy earnest desire ; For thou art the Lass , I swear by the Mass , which I above all do admire . to be . At making of Hay they frolic and play , as you may observe by this Ditty , And when they are cracked , away they are packed , for Virgins away to the City . Printed for C. B. in Pye-Corner . THE Merry Hay-Makers ; OR , Pleasant PASTIME , BETWEEN THE Young-Men and Maids , in the Pleasant Meadows . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . IN our Country , in our Country , where Russelers they was a Raking ; And the rarest pastime that ever you see , was when Haycocks they were a making . to be . There's Timmy , and Tommy , with Bottle and Bag , as soon as the Lasses beheld them , Because they did not give them what they worser [ i ] worser lack , adzuggers they swore they would geld them . to be . And did you not know one Volking the Smith , and Marry that went to the Dairy ; O give me quoth she a thing that is soft , for to make me look Buxem and Airy . to be . And down in a dale there was tumble down Dick , with Marry , and Sarah , and Susan . They being in haste for to play the old trick , they leapt into bed with their shoes on . to be . And some they w [ i ] ll Foe [ r ] k , and some they will R [ a ] ke , when merrily they were a Quaffing . And if you had but seen how Jones buttocks did wag , [ ? ] would a broke a men sides out of laughing . to be . Young Bridget came next and plaguely Vexed , with fury she fell upon Robin , His Clatter-de-vengance adzuggers she claw'd , 'cause he with young Kate had been bobbing . to be . With that he made bold with speed to take hold , of Bridgets young Chitter-de-widgeon , He threw her along , but did it not wrong , because it was just upon fledging . to be . Her mother came by , and as she drew nigh , the sighed put her into a laughter ; His buttocks she hang'd , and bidhim be hang'd , for playing the fool with her daughter . to be . The men and the maids they love their comrades , above any paltry riches ; Quoth Nancy to Dick adzuggers I'm sick , for something thou hast in thy Breeches . to be . What sayest thou me so then to it we'll go , thou shalt have thy earnest desire ; For thou art the Lass , I swear by the Mass , which I above all do admire . to be . At making of Hay they frolic and play , as you may observe by this Ditty , And when they are cracked , away they are packed , for Virgins away to the City . Printed for C. B. in Pye-Corner . 