CUPID'S COURT of EQUITY . The scornful Lady quickly took , While she her love Disdain'd : She was prick'd down in Cupids Book , His Vassal she remain'd . Tune of , When first I bid my Love Good-Morrow . WHen first I bid my Love good morrow , with tear in Eye , and hand on breast ; My heart was even drown'd in sorrow , and I poor soul was much oppressed . The glances from her Eye so darted , I her captive soon was made ; The Prisoner took was brokenhearted , this I find is Cupids Trade . All my reason then was banish'd , and I left in Captivity : My hop'd for joys were quickly vanish'd , by the Lightning of her Eye . All my hope's at once were blasted , by one seeming scornful look : The joys I hop'd for to have tasted , had no Record in Cupids Book . I figh'd , I groan'd just like a Lover , ready just for to depart ; And had no hope's for to recover , for she , O she ! had broke my heart . Away I went without her smiling , which was worse then death to me ? And Cupid was me then beguiling of my Life and Liberty . BUt when she see that I absented , almost melted into Tears , My Lovesick case she then lamented , and like my self was fill'd with fears . Alas , quoth she , am I so cruel , as to let this Lover die ? Or to his flames to add such fuel , as makes his heart to scorch and fry . A Balsome then I will provide him , shall effect a perfect cure ; And in my bosom I will hide him , he shall not these pains endure . My thinks I feel my self relenting , and in tears I almost mell Now do I grieve at his tormenting , I now feel the pains he felt . None can endure this bitter anguish , which at this time I do feel : For want of him I grieve , I languish , none but he my wounds can heal . Let not your beauty make you peevish , you that nature made so fair : For men's as women's eyes are thievish , love commands or breeds despair . At first too strangely I did slight him , whom I now so much adore : He is the Man I do delight in , and now will do for evermore . His sighs and groans shall be requited , with a shower of brackish tears : And my senses are benighted , fill'd with storms of dreads and fears . O come again before my sorrow brings me to the brink of Death , I cannot hope to see to morrow , except you come to save my breath . Then come & take thy conquest quickly I am ready to depar Just at this moment I am sickly , thou hast wone my tender heart . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - ball , near the Hospital-Gate , in West - smithfield . CUPID'S COURT of EQUITY . The scornful Lady quickly took , While she her love Disdain'd : She was prick'd down in Cupids Book , His Vassal she remain'd . Tune of , When first I bid my Love Good-Morrow . WHen first I bid my Love good morrow , with tear in Eye , and hand on breast ; My heart was even drown'd in sorrow , and I poor soul was much oppressed . The glances from her Eye so darted , I her captive soon was made ; The Prisoner took was brokenhearted , this I find is Cupids Trade . All my reason then was banish'd , and I left in Captivity : My hop'd for joys were quickly vanish'd , by the Lightning of her Eye . All my hope's at once were blasted , by one seeming scornful look : The joys I hop'd for to have tasted , had no Record in Cupids Book . I figh'd , I groan'd just like a Lover , ready just for to depart ; And had no hope's for to recover , for she , O she ! had broke my heart . Away I went without her smiling , which was worse then death to me ? And Cupid was me then beguiling of my Life and Liberty . BUt when she see that I absented , almost melted into Tears , My Lovesick case she then lamented , and like my self was fill'd with fears . Alas , quoth she , am I so cruel , as to let this Lover die ? Or to his flames to add such fuel , as makes his heart to scorch and fry . A Balsome then I will provide him , shall effect a perfect cure ; And in my bosom I will hide him , he shall not these pains endure . My thinks I feel my self relenting , and in tears I almost mell Now do I grieve at his tormenting , I now feel the pains he felt . None can endure this bitter anguish , which at this time I do feel : For want of him I grieve , I languish , none but he my wounds can heal . Let not your beauty make you peevish , you that nature made so fair : For men's as women's eyes are thievish , love commands or breeds despair . At first too strangely I did slight him , whom I now so much adore : He is the Man I do delight in , and now will do for evermore . His sighs and groans shall be requited , with a shower of brackish tears : And my senses are benighted , fill'd with storms of dreads and fears . O come again before my sorrow brings me to the brink of Death , I cannot hope to see to morrow , except you come to save my breath . Then come & take thy conquest quickly I am ready to depar Just at this moment I am sickly , thou hast wone my tender heart . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - ball , near the Hospital-Gate , in West - smithfield . 