Cupids Courtesy : OR , The young Gallant foiled at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , Until he felt a wounded Heart . To a pleasant Northern Tune . By J.P. THrough the cool shady Woods , as I was ranging , I herd the pretty Birds notes sweetly changing ; Down by a Meadow side , there runs a River , A little Boy I espy'd with Bow and Quiver . Little Boy , tell me why thou art here diving , Art thou some Runaway , and hast no biding ? I am no Runaway , Venus my mother , She gave me leave to play when I came hither . Little Boy go with me , and be my Servant , I will take care to see for thy preferment ; If I with thee should go , Venus would chide me , And take away my Bow , and never abide me . Little Boy let me know , what's thy name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , and go so armed , You may perceive the same , with often changing , Cupid it is my name , I live by ranging . If Cupid be thy name , that shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy fame , by wounded Lovers : Should any languish that are set on fire , By such a naked Brat , I much admire . IF thou dost but the least , at my Laws grumble , I'll pierce thy stubborn Breast and make thee humble ; If I with golden Dart , wound thee but surely , There's no Physicians art , that e're can cure thee . Little Boy with thy Bow , why dost thou threaten ? It is not long ago since thou was beaten : Thy wanton Mother fair , Venus will chide thee , When all thy Arrows are gone , thou mayest go hide thee . Of powerful shafts you see , I am well stored , Which makes my diety , so much adored : With one poor Arrow now , I'll make thee shiver , And bend unto my Bow , and fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be courteous and kindly , I know thou canst not hit but shootest blindly . Although thou calls me blind , surely i'le hit thee , That thou shalt quickly find , I'll not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught his Bow so nimble , And shot a fatal Shaft which made him tremble : Go tell thy Mistress dear , thou canst discover , What all the Passion are , of a dying Lover . And now this gallant heart , sorely was bleeding , And felt the greatest smart from Love proceeding : He did her help implore , whom he affected , But found that more and more , him she rejected . For Cupid with his craft quickly had chosen , And with a leaden shaft , her heart had frozen , Which caus'd this Lover , more sadly to languish , And Cupids aid implore , to heal his anguish . He humble pardon crav'd for his offence past , And vow'd himself a slave , and to Love steadfast ; His prayers so ardent were , while his heart panted , That Cupid lent and ear , and his suit granted . For by his present plaint , he was regarded , And his adored Saint , his Love rewarded : And now they live in joy , sweetly imbraceing , And left the little Boy in the Woods chasing . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order . London , Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , near Hatten Garden . Cupids Courtesy : OR , The young Gallant foiled at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , Until he felt a wounded Heart . To a pleasant Northern Tune . By J.P. THrough the cool shady Woods , as I was ranging , I herd the pretty Birds notes sweetly changing ; Down by a Meadow side , there runs a River , A little Boy I espy'd with Bow and Quiver . Little Boy , tell me why thou art here diving , Art thou some Runaway , and hast no biding ? I am no Runaway , Venus my mother , She gave me leave to play when I came hither . Little Boy go with me , and be my Servant , I will take care to see for thy preferment ; If I with thee should go , Venus would chide me , And take away my Bow , and never abide me . Little Boy let me know , what's thy name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , and go so armed , You may perceive the same , with often changing , Cupid it is my name , I live by ranging . If Cupid be thy name , that shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy fame , by wounded Lovers : Should any languish that are set on fire , By such a naked Brat , I much admire . IF thou dost but the least , at my Laws grumble , I'll pierce thy stubborn Breast and make thee humble ; If I with golden Dart , wound thee but surely , There's no Physicians art , that e're can cure thee . Little Boy with thy Bow , why dost thou threaten ? It is not long ago since thou was beaten : Thy wanton Mother fair , Venus will chide thee , When all thy Arrows are gone , thou mayest go hide thee . Of powerful shafts you see , I am well stored , Which makes my diety , so much adored : With one poor Arrow now , I'll make thee shiver , And bend unto my Bow , and fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be courteous and kindly , I know thou canst not hit but shootest blindly . Although thou calls me blind , surely i'le hit thee , That thou shalt quickly find , I'll not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught his Bow so nimble , And shot a fatal Shaft which made him tremble : Go tell thy Mistress dear , thou canst discover , What all the Passion are , of a dying Lover . And now this gallant heart , sorely was bleeding , And felt the greatest smart from Love proceeding : He did her help implore , whom he affected , But found that more and more , him she rejected . For Cupid with his craft quickly had chosen , And with a leaden shaft , her heart had frozen , Which caus'd this Lover , more sadly to languish , And Cupids aid implore , to heal his anguish . He humble pardon crav'd for his offence past , And vow'd himself a slave , and to Love steadfast ; His prayers so ardent were , while his heart panted , That Cupid lent and ear , and his suit granted . For by his present plaint , he was regarded , And his adored Saint , his Love rewarded : And now they live in joy , sweetly imbraceing , And left the little Boy in the Woods chasing . FINIS . Licensed and Entered according to Order . London , Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street , near Hatten Garden . 