The Cooper of Norfolk , OR , A pretty Jest of a Brewer , and the Coopers Wife , and how the Cooper serve - ed the Brewer in his kind . To the Tune of , The wiving age . ATtend my Master's , and listen well Unto this my Ditty which briefly does tell Of a fine merry jest that in Norfolk befell A brave lusty Cooper in that Country did dwell And there he cry'd work for a Cooper Maids ha'ye any work for a Cooper . This Cooper he had a fair creature to's wife Which a Brewer i'th town lov'd as deer as his life And she had a trick which in some wives is rife She still kept a sheath for another men knife And often cornuted the Cooper While he cry'd more work for a Cooper . It happened one morning the Cooper out went To work for his living it was his intent He trusted his home to his wives government And left her in bed to her own hearts content While he cry'd what work for a Cooper Maids ha'ye any work for a Cooper . And as the Cooper was passing along Still crying and calling his old wonted Song The Brewer his rival both lusty and young Did think now or never to do him some wrong And lie with the wife of the Cooper Who better lov'd him than the Cooper , So calling the Cooper , he to him did say Go home to my house and make no delay , I have as much work as thou canst do to day What ever thou earnest i'le bountifully pay These tidings well pleased the Cooper O this was brave news for the Cooper . Away went the Cooper to the house of the Brewer , Who seeing him hard at his labour to endure Thought he now for this day the Cooper is sure I'le go to his wife the Greensickness to cure Take heed of your forehead good Cooper For now I must work for the Cooper . So straitways he went to the Coopers dwelling The good wife to give entertainment was willing The Brewer and she like two pigeons was by [ l ] ling And what they did else they have bound me from telling He pleased the wife of the Cooper Who better lov'd him than the Cooper . But mark how it happened now at the last Their Sunshine of pleasure was soon overcast The Cooper did lack one of's tools and in haste He came home to fetch it and found the door fast Wife open the door quoth the Cooper , And let in thy husband the Cooper . Now when the good wife and the Brewer did hear The Cooper at the door , affrighted they were The Brewer was in such a bodily fear That for to hide himself he knew not where To shun the fierce rage of the Cooper He thought he should die by the Cooper . The good wife perceiving this woeful estate She having a subtle and politic pate She suddenly whelmed down a great brewing Fat And closely she covered the Brewer with that Then after she let in the Cooper What's under this Tub ? quoth the Cooper . The second Part to the same Tune . SHe hearing her Husband that question demand , she thought it was time to her tackling to stand Take heed how you move it quod she with your hand For there's a live big was left me by a Friend . O let it alone John Cooper Thus she thought to cozen the Cooper . Is it a Sow-Pig the Cooper did say Let me hav't to my supper , the goodwife said nay , It is Sir a Bore-Pig quoth she by my faith 'Tis for my own diet , 'twas given me to day It is not for you John Cooper Then let it alone John Cooper . I would it were in thy belly , quoth John , Indeed quoth the goodwife so it shall be anon , What ere become of it , faith thou shalt have none Why standest thou here prating ? I prithee be gone Make haste to thy work John Cooper Worse meat's good enough for a Cooper . Cannot a goodwife have a bit now and than But there must be notice taken by the goodman ? I'le hav't to my dinner , sir , do what you can It may be I long for to have all or none Then prithee content thee good Cooper O go to thy work John Cooper . The Cooper mistrusted some knavery to be Hid under the brewing-fat and therefore he Was fully resolved for his mind-sake to see Alas , said the Brewer , then woe be to me O what shall I say to the Cooper I would I were gone from the Cooper . [ Y ] ou whore quoth the Cooper is this your Bore-pig P [ ig ] has been well fed for he's grown very big He either have of him and arm or a leg I'le make him unable his tail for to wrig Before he gets hence from John Cooper I'le make him remember the Cooper . O pardon me Neighbour , the Brewer did say , And for the offence I have done thee this day I am well contented thy wrath to allay And make restitution for this my foul play Oh prithee forgive me , John Cooper , And I'le be a friend to John Cooper . If for this offence thou wilt now set me clear My bounty and love to thee shall appear I'll freely allow thee and thine all the year As much as yee'l drink either strong Ale or Beer Before he gets hence from John Cooper I'le make him remember the Cooper . O no quoth the Cooper . I'le have thee to think That I with my labour can buy myself drink I'le geld thee , or lame thee , ere from me thou shrink These words made the Brewer with fear for to stink He feared the rage of the Cooper Yet still he entreated the Cooper . The Cooper by no means would let go his hold The Brewer cry'd out to the Cooper , and told Him , there was the key of his silver and gold And gave him free leave to take what he would O then he contented the Cooper These tidings well pleased the Cooper . If thou quoth the Cooper wilt swear with and oath To do all thou tel'st me although I am loath I will be content to pardon you both Content quoth the Brewer , I will by my troth Here take thou my key John Cooper Yea , with a good will , quoth the Cooper . On this condition they both went their way Both John and the Brewer , but John kept the key Which open'd the Coffer where more money lay Then John the Cooper had seen many a day This is a brave fight thought the Cooper I'le furnish my self thought the Cooper . John was so far in affection with that That he took up handfuls and filled his hat I will have my bargain , quoth John , that is flat The Brewer shall pay well for using my Fat I'le cry no more work for a Cooper Farewell to the Trade of a Cooper . Thus money can pacify the greatest strife For John never after found fault with his wife He left off his Adz , his Saw , and his Knife And after liv'd richly all days of his life . He cry'dcryed no more work for a Cooper O he left off the Trade of a Cooper . And in his merry mood oft times he would say If that I had hooped twenty tubs in one day I should not have had so much wealth by my faith Gramercy kind Wife , for thy wit found the way To make a rich man of John Cooper O what a good wife has John Cooper . Let no married couple that hears this tale told , Be of the opinion this couple did hold To fell Reputation for silver or gold For Credit and honesty should not be sold Thus endeth the song of the Cooper That cry'd ha'ye any work for a Cooper . FINIS . London , printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to order . The Cooper of Norfolk , OR , A pretty Jest of a Brewer , and the Coopers Wife , and how the Cooper serve - ed the Brewer in his kind . To the Tune of , The wiving age . ATtend my Master's , and listen well Unto this my Ditty which briefly does tell Of a fine merry jest that in Norfolk befell A brave lusty Cooper in that Country did dwell And there he cry'd work for a Cooper Maids ha'ye any work for a Cooper . This Cooper he had a fair creature to's wife Which a Brewer i'th town lov'd as deer as his life And she had a trick which in some wives is rife She still kept a sheath for another men knife And often cornuted the Cooper While he cry'd more work for a Cooper . It happened one morning the Cooper out went To work for his living it was his intent He trusted his home to his wives government And left her in bed to her own hearts content While he cry'd what work for a Cooper Maids ha'ye any work for a Cooper . And as the Cooper was passing along Still crying and calling his old wonted Song The Brewer his rival both lusty and young Did think now or never to do him some wrong And lie with the wife of the Cooper Who better lov'd him than the Cooper , So calling the Cooper , he to him did say Go home to my house and make no delay , I have as much work as thou canst do to day What ever thou earnest i'le bountifully pay These tidings well pleased the Cooper O this was brave news for the Cooper . Away went the Cooper to the house of the Brewer , Who seeing him hard at his labour to endure Thought he now for this day the Cooper is sure I'le go to his wife the Greensickness to cure Take heed of your forehead good Cooper For now I must work for the Cooper . So straitways he went to the Coopers dwelling The good wife to give entertainment was willing The Brewer and she like two pigeons was by [ l ] ling And what they did else they have bound me from telling He pleased the wife of the Cooper Who better lov'd him than the Cooper . But mark how it happened now at the last Their Sunshine of pleasure was soon overcast The Cooper did lack one of's tools and in haste He came home to fetch it and found the door fast Wife open the door quoth the Cooper , And let in thy husband the Cooper . Now when the good wife and the Brewer did hear The Cooper at the door , affrighted they were The Brewer was in such a bodily fear That for to hide himself he knew not where To shun the fierce rage of the Cooper He thought he should die by the Cooper . The good wife perceiving this woeful estate She having a subtle and politic pate She suddenly whelmed down a great brewing Fat And closely she covered the Brewer with that Then after she let in the Cooper What's under this Tub ? quoth the Cooper . The second Part to the same Tune . SHe hearing her Husband that question demand , she thought it was time to her tackling to stand Take heed how you move it quod she with your hand For there's a live big was left me by a Friend . O let it alone John Cooper Thus she thought to cozen the Cooper . Is it a Sow-Pig the Cooper did say Let me hav't to my supper , the goodwife said nay , It is Sir a Bore-Pig quoth she by my faith 'Tis for my own diet , 'twas given me to day It is not for you John Cooper Then let it alone John Cooper . I would it were in thy belly , quoth John , Indeed quoth the goodwife so it shall be anon , What ere become of it , faith thou shalt have none Why standest thou here prating ? I prithee be gone Make haste to thy work John Cooper Worse meat's good enough for a Cooper . Cannot a goodwife have a bit now and than But there must be notice taken by the goodman ? I'le hav't to my dinner , sir , do what you can It may be I long for to have all or none Then prithee content thee good Cooper O go to thy work John Cooper . The Cooper mistrusted some knavery to be Hid under the brewing-fat and therefore he Was fully resolved for his mind-sake to see Alas , said the Brewer , then woe be to me O what shall I say to the Cooper I would I were gone from the Cooper . [ Y ] ou whore quoth the Cooper is this your Bore-pig P [ ig ] has been well fed for he's grown very big He either have of him and arm or a leg I'le make him unable his tail for to wrig Before he gets hence from John Cooper I'le make him remember the Cooper . O pardon me Neighbour , the Brewer did say , And for the offence I have done thee this day I am well contented thy wrath to allay And make restitution for this my foul play Oh prithee forgive me , John Cooper , And I'le be a friend to John Cooper . If for this offence thou wilt now set me clear My bounty and love to thee shall appear I'll freely allow thee and thine all the year As much as yee'l drink either strong Ale or Beer Before he gets hence from John Cooper I'le make him remember the Cooper . O no quoth the Cooper . I'le have thee to think That I with my labour can buy myself drink I'le geld thee , or lame thee , ere from me thou shrink These words made the Brewer with fear for to stink He feared the rage of the Cooper Yet still he entreated the Cooper . The Cooper by no means would let go his hold The Brewer cry'd out to the Cooper , and told Him , there was the key of his silver and gold And gave him free leave to take what he would O then he contented the Cooper These tidings well pleased the Cooper . If thou quoth the Cooper wilt swear with and oath To do all thou tel'st me although I am loath I will be content to pardon you both Content quoth the Brewer , I will by my troth Here take thou my key John Cooper Yea , with a good will , quoth the Cooper . On this condition they both went their way Both John and the Brewer , but John kept the key Which open'd the Coffer where more money lay Then John the Cooper had seen many a day This is a brave fight thought the Cooper I'le furnish my self thought the Cooper . John was so far in affection with that That he took up handfuls and filled his hat I will have my bargain , quoth John , that is flat The Brewer shall pay well for using my Fat I'le cry no more work for a Cooper Farewell to the Trade of a Cooper . Thus money can pacify the greatest strife For John never after found fault with his wife He left off his Adz , his Saw , and his Knife And after liv'd richly all days of his life . He cry'dcryed no more work for a Cooper O he left off the Trade of a Cooper . And in his merry mood oft times he would say If that I had hooped twenty tubs in one day I should not have had so much wealth by my faith Gramercy kind Wife , for thy wit found the way To make a rich man of John Cooper O what a good wife has John Cooper . Let no married couple that hears this tale told , Be of the opinion this couple did hold To fell Reputation for silver or gold For Credit and honesty should not be sold Thus endeth the song of the Cooper That cry'd ha'ye any work for a Cooper . FINIS . London , printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to order . 