The Cov [ et ] ous Mother , Or , The Terrible Overthrow of Two loyal Lovers , You that these woeful tidings hear , surely your hearts may bleed : Who can forbear to shed a tear , when they these lines shall read ? To the Tune of , Oh so Ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed R. P. THere was a Wealthy young Squire , whom a Fair Damsel did love , Nay , and it was so entire , nothing his fancy could move : She born of ordinary Parents , which when his Friends this did know , They strove to set them at variance , proving their sad overthrow . Son , said his indulgent Mother pray you now listen to me ; I have consider'd another more suitable to your degree . That you may rise to promotion , she is both virtuous and fair , Two thousand pound to her Portion , therefore your folly forbear . Mother , those Charms does inflame me , which in my Dear I behold , Therefore I pray do not blame me , true love is better than Gold : Might I have Wealth out of measure , nothing my mind can remove ; I'll never marry for Treasure , Give me the Creature I love . I can maintain ( like a Lady ) she whom I much do adore ; Have I not Riches already , what need I covet for more ? If you give me not one penny I have a Hundred a Year ; Now if I marry with any , it shall be Nancy my dear . Son if your love be so rooted that from her you cannot part , By me it shan [ ' ] tO be disputed , take her then with all my hear But she in this was deceitful , as by this Ditty you'll find Never was Actium more hateful , Malice remain'd in her mind . Straight she repair'd to this Creature , vowing to send her away : Yet with a smile she did meet her , saying , Dear Daughter this day We will go buy yourAttire , every thing i'll provide ; 'Tis my unfeigned desire that you should be my Son's Bride . Thus was the matter contrived , just as his Mother would have , Then to a Captain in private , she sold her to be a Slave . She from Old England did send her fill'd with much Sorrow and Woe There was no soul to defend her ; but was compelled to go . When her Intention was over , then she return'd to her Son ; Freely to him to discover presently what she had done ; When he had herd what she'd said , his Rapier straight he pull'd forth Raving like one quite distracted , crying you've Ruin'd us both . Then on the point of his Rapier he did immediately fallen ; His life did go out like a Taper ; this was the Ruin of all . His Mother more than uncivil , was of a covetous mind ; Money the Root of all evil , caus'd this confusion we find . Now does his Mother with weeping weary out many a day , While her dear Son he lies sleeping low in a cold bed of clay , This is a sad Desolation , she whom he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nations , where she will ne'er see him more Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , without Newg [ at ] e The Cov [ et ] ous Mother , Or , The Terrible Overthrow of Two loyal Lovers , You that these woeful tidings hear , surely your hearts may bleed : Who can forbear to shed a tear , when they these lines shall read ? To the Tune of , Oh so Ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed R. P. THere was a Wealthy young Squire , whom a Fair Damsel did love , Nay , and it was so entire , nothing his fancy could move : She born of ordinary Parents , which when his Friends this did know , They strove to set them at variance , proving their sad overthrow . Son , said his indulgent Mother pray you now listen to me ; I have consider'd another more suitable to your degree . That you may rise to promotion , she is both virtuous and fair , Two thousand pound to her Portion , therefore your folly forbear . Mother , those Charms does inflame me , which in my Dear I behold , Therefore I pray do not blame me , true love is better than Gold : Might I have Wealth out of measure , nothing my mind can remove ; I'll never marry for Treasure , Give me the Creature I love . I can maintain ( like a Lady ) she whom I much do adore ; Have I not Riches already , what need I covet for more ? If you give me not one penny I have a Hundred a Year ; Now if I marry with any , it shall be Nancy my dear . Son if your love be so rooted that from her you cannot part , By me it shan [ ' ] tO be disputed , take her then with all my hear But she in this was deceitful , as by this Ditty you'll find Never was Actium more hateful , Malice remain'd in her mind . Straight she repair'd to this Creature , vowing to send her away : Yet with a smile she did meet her , saying , Dear Daughter this day We will go buy yourAttire , every thing i'll provide ; 'Tis my unfeigned desire that you should be my Son's Bride . Thus was the matter contrived , just as his Mother would have , Then to a Captain in private , she sold her to be a Slave . She from Old England did send her fill'd with much Sorrow and Woe There was no soul to defend her ; but was compelled to go . When her Intention was over , then she return'd to her Son ; Freely to him to discover presently what she had done ; When he had herd what she'd said , his Rapier straight he pull'd forth Raving like one quite distracted , crying you've Ruin'd us both . Then on the point of his Rapier he did immediately fallen ; His life did go out like a Taper ; this was the Ruin of all . His Mother more than uncivil , was of a covetous mind ; Money the Root of all evil , caus'd this confusion we find . Now does his Mother with weeping weary out many a day , While her dear Son he lies sleeping low in a cold bed of clay , This is a sad Desolation , she whom he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nations , where she will ne'er see him more Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , without Newg [ at ] e 