Renowned Robin Hood . Or , His famous Archery truly Related , with the worthy Exploits he Acted before Queen Ka - therine , he being and Outlaw-man , and how she for the same obtained of the King , his own , and his fellows pardon . To a New Tune . GOld taken from the Kings Harbingers down a down a down . As seldom hath been seen , down a down a down . And carried by bold Robin Hood for a present to the Queen . down a down a down . If that I live and year to and end , thus gan Queen Katherine say , Bold Robin Hood I will be thy friend , and all thy Yeomen gay . The Queen is to her Chamber gone as fast as she can wen , She calls unto her lovely Page , his name was Richard Patrington . Come hither to me thou lovely Page , come thou hither to me : For thou must Post to Nottingham as fast as thou canst dree . And as thou goest to Nottingham , search all those English Wood , Inquire of one good Yeoman or another , that can tell thee of Robin Hood . Sometime he went , sometime he ran as fast as he could wen . And when he came to Nottingham , there he took up his Inn. And when he came to Nottingham , and had took up his Inn , He calls for a pottle of Rhenish Wine and drinks a health to his Queen . There sat a Yeoman by his side , tell me sweet Page said he , What is thy business , or the cause , so far in the North Country . This is my business , and the cause , sir , I'le tell it you for good . To inquire of one good Yeoman or another , to tell me of Robin Hood . I'll get my horse betime in the morn , by it be break of day , And I will show thee bold Robin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay . When that he came at Robin Hoods place , he fell down on his knee : Queen Katherine she does greet you well , she greets you well by me . She bids you post to fair London Court . not fearing anything , For there shall be a little sport and she hath sent you her Ring . Robin took his Mantle from his back , it was of the Lincoln green , And sent it by this lovely Page for a present to the Queen . In Summer time when leaves grow green it is a seemly sighed to see , How Robin Hood himself had dressed and all his Yeomandree . He clothed his men in Lincoln green , and himself in scarlet read , Black hats , white feathers all alike , now bold Robin Hood is Rid. And when he came at Londons Court , he fell down on his knee , Thou art welcome Locksly said the Queen , and all thy Yeomen three . The King is into Finsbury field , down a down a down . Marching in battle ray , down a down a down . And after follows bold Robin Hood and all his Yeomen gay . down a down a down . The Second Part , To the same Tune . COme hither Tepus , said the King , down a down a down , Bow-bearer after me , down a down a down , Come measure me out with this line how long our mark shall be . down a down a down . What is the Wager said the Queen ? that must I now know here , Three hundred Tun of Rhenish Wine three hundred tun of Beer . Three hundred of the fattest Hearts that run on Dallom Lee , That's a Princely Wager , said the King that needs must I tell thee . With that bespoke one Clifton then full quickly and full soon , Measure no Mark for us most Sovereign Liege wee'l shoot at Sun and Moon . Full fifteen score your Mark shall be , full fifteen score shall stand , I'll lay my Bow , said Clifton then , I'le cleave the Willow Wand . With that the Kings Archers led about while it was three and none , With that the Ladies began to shout , Madam , your Game is gone . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries , I crave on my bore knee , Is there any Knight of your privy Counsel on Queen Katherines part will be ? Come hither to me sir Richard Lee , thou art a Knight full good , For I do know by thy pedigree , thou sprang'st from Gowers blood . Come hither to me thou Bishop of Here-fordshire , for a noble Priest was he , By my silver Miter , said the Bishop then I'le not bet one penny . The King hath Archers of his own , full ready and full light , And these be strangers every one , no man knows what they height . What wilt thou bet said Robin Hood thou seest our Games the worse , By my silver Miter , said the Bishop then all the Money within my purse . What is in thy purse , said Robin Hood , throw it down on the ground , Fifteen score Nobles , said the Bishop then its near and hundred pound . Robin Hood took his bag from his side and threw it down on the green : William Scadlock went smiling away , I know who this money must win . With that the Kings Archers led about , while it was three and three , With that the Ladies gave a shout , Woodcock beware thy knee . It is three , and three , now said the King , the next three pays for all : Robin Hood went and whispered to the Queen the Kings part shall be but small . Robin Hood he led about , he shot it underhand , And Clifton with a bearing Arrow he clave the Willow wand . And little Midge the Millers son , he shot not much the worse , He shot within a finger of the prick now Bishop beware thy purse . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries I crave that on my bore knee , That you will angry be with none , that is of my party . They shall have forty days to come , and forty days to go , And three times forty to sport and play then welcome every one . Then thou art welcome Robin Hood said the Queen , and so is little John , So is Midge the Millers Son , thrice welcome every one . Is this Robin Hood the King now said ? for it was told to me , That he was slave in the Palace gate , so far in the North Country . Is this Robin Hood , quoth the Bishop then as I see well to be , Had I known that had been that bold Outlaw I would not a bet one penny . He took me late on Saturday at night , and bound me fast to a tree , And made me sing a Mass God wot , to him and his Yeomen three . What and if I did , says Robin Hood , of that Mass I was full fain ; For recompense to thee he says here's a half thy Gold again . Now nay , now nay , says little John , down a down a down . Master that may not be , down a down a down . We must give gifts to the Kings Officers that Gold will serve thee and me . down a down a down . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Renowned Robin Hood . Or , His famous Archery truly Related , with the worthy Exploits he Acted before Queen Ka - therine , he being and Outlaw-man , and how she for the same obtained of the King , his own , and his fellows pardon . To a New Tune . GOld taken from the Kings Harbingers down a down a down . As seldom hath been seen , down a down a down . And carried by bold Robin Hood for a present to the Queen . down a down a down . If that I live and year to and end , thus gan Queen Katherine say , Bold Robin Hood I will be thy friend , and all thy Yeomen gay . The Queen is to her Chamber gone as fast as she can wen , She calls unto her lovely Page , his name was Richard Patrington . Come hither to me thou lovely Page , come thou hither to me : For thou must Post to Nottingham as fast as thou canst dree . And as thou goest to Nottingham , search all those English Wood , Inquire of one good Yeoman or another , that can tell thee of Robin Hood . Sometime he went , sometime he ran as fast as he could wen . And when he came to Nottingham , there he took up his Inn. And when he came to Nottingham , and had took up his Inn , He calls for a pottle of Rhenish Wine and drinks a health to his Queen . There sat a Yeoman by his side , tell me sweet Page said he , What is thy business , or the cause , so far in the North Country . This is my business , and the cause , sir , I'le tell it you for good . To inquire of one good Yeoman or another , to tell me of Robin Hood . I'll get my horse betime in the morn , by it be break of day , And I will show thee bold Robin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay . When that he came at Robin Hoods place , he fell down on his knee : Queen Katherine she does greet you well , she greets you well by me . She bids you post to fair London Court . not fearing anything , For there shall be a little sport and she hath sent you her Ring . Robin took his Mantle from his back , it was of the Lincoln green , And sent it by this lovely Page for a present to the Queen . In Summer time when leaves grow green it is a seemly sighed to see , How Robin Hood himself had dressed and all his Yeomandree . He clothed his men in Lincoln green , and himself in scarlet read , Black hats , white feathers all alike , now bold Robin Hood is Rid. And when he came at Londons Court , he fell down on his knee , Thou art welcome Locksly said the Queen , and all thy Yeomen three . The King is into Finsbury field , down a down a down . Marching in battle ray , down a down a down . And after follows bold Robin Hood and all his Yeomen gay . down a down a down . The Second Part , To the same Tune . COme hither Tepus , said the King , down a down a down , Bow-bearer after me , down a down a down , Come measure me out with this line how long our mark shall be . down a down a down . What is the Wager said the Queen ? that must I now know here , Three hundred Tun of Rhenish Wine three hundred tun of Beer . Three hundred of the fattest Hearts that run on Dallom Lee , That's a Princely Wager , said the King that needs must I tell thee . With that bespoke one Clifton then full quickly and full soon , Measure no Mark for us most Sovereign Liege wee'l shoot at Sun and Moon . Full fifteen score your Mark shall be , full fifteen score shall stand , I'll lay my Bow , said Clifton then , I'le cleave the Willow Wand . With that the Kings Archers led about while it was three and none , With that the Ladies began to shout , Madam , your Game is gone . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries , I crave on my bore knee , Is there any Knight of your privy Counsel on Queen Katherines part will be ? Come hither to me sir Richard Lee , thou art a Knight full good , For I do know by thy pedigree , thou sprang'st from Gowers blood . Come hither to me thou Bishop of Here-fordshire , for a noble Priest was he , By my silver Miter , said the Bishop then I'le not bet one penny . The King hath Archers of his own , full ready and full light , And these be strangers every one , no man knows what they height . What wilt thou bet said Robin Hood thou seest our Games the worse , By my silver Miter , said the Bishop then all the Money within my purse . What is in thy purse , said Robin Hood , throw it down on the ground , Fifteen score Nobles , said the Bishop then its near and hundred pound . Robin Hood took his bag from his side and threw it down on the green : William Scadlock went smiling away , I know who this money must win . With that the Kings Archers led about , while it was three and three , With that the Ladies gave a shout , Woodcock beware thy knee . It is three , and three , now said the King , the next three pays for all : Robin Hood went and whispered to the Queen the Kings part shall be but small . Robin Hood he led about , he shot it underhand , And Clifton with a bearing Arrow he clave the Willow wand . And little Midge the Millers son , he shot not much the worse , He shot within a finger of the prick now Bishop beware thy purse . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries I crave that on my bore knee , That you will angry be with none , that is of my party . They shall have forty days to come , and forty days to go , And three times forty to sport and play then welcome every one . Then thou art welcome Robin Hood said the Queen , and so is little John , So is Midge the Millers Son , thrice welcome every one . Is this Robin Hood the King now said ? for it was told to me , That he was slave in the Palace gate , so far in the North Country . Is this Robin Hood , quoth the Bishop then as I see well to be , Had I known that had been that bold Outlaw I would not a bet one penny . He took me late on Saturday at night , and bound me fast to a tree , And made me sing a Mass God wot , to him and his Yeomen three . What and if I did , says Robin Hood , of that Mass I was full fain ; For recompense to thee he says here's a half thy Gold again . Now nay , now nay , says little John , down a down a down . Master that may not be , down a down a down . We must give gifts to the Kings Officers that Gold will serve thee and me . down a down a down . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 