E : 302 The Noble Fisher-Man . Or , Robin Hood's preferment ; showing how he wone a prize on the sea , and how he gave one half to his Dame , and the other to the building of Almshouses . The Tune is , In Summer time when leaves grow green . IN summer time when leaves grow green , when they grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw call'd Robin Hood , it is of him I sing my Song - When the Lily sweet and the Elephant , does bud and spring with a merry cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the Woodside , and chasing of the Fallow Deer . The Fishermen brave , more money have , than any Merchant two or three , Therefore I will to Scarbrough go , that I a Fisherman might be . This outlaw called his merry men all , as they sat under the green wood tree , If you have any Gold to spend I pray you heartily spend it with me . Now quoth Robin i'le to Scarbrough go , it seems to be a very fair day , Who took up his Inn at a widow-woman's house , hard by upon the waters grey , Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell to me where thou dost fare , I am a peer Fisherman , said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy name thou fine fellow , I pray thee heartily tell it to me , In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over the Lee. Simon , Simon , said the good wife , I wish thou mayest well brook thy name , The Outlaw was aware of her courtesy , and rejoiced he had god such a Dame . Simon , wilt thou be my man ? and good round wages I will give thee , I have as good a Ship of mine own , as any sails upon the Sea. Anchors and Planks thou shalt not want , Masts and Ropes that are so long , And if thou thus furnish me , said Simon nothing shall go wrong . THey plucked up Anchor and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , When others cast in their baited hooks , the bore Lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long said the Master then , e're this great lubber do thrive on the Sea , I'll assure he shall have no part of our fish , for in truth he is no part worthy . O woe is me , said Simon then , this day that ever I came here , I wish I were in Plompton Park , in chasing of the Fallow Deer . For every Clown laughs me to scorn and they by me set nothing at all , If I had them in Plompton Park , I would set as little by them all . They pluck up Anchor and away did sail more of a day than two or three , But Simon espied a Ship of War that sailed towards them valorously , Oh woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born : For all our fish that we have god , is every bit lost and forlorn , For yond French Robber on the Sea , they will not spare of us one Man , But carry us to the Coast of France , and lay us in the Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither Master take you any care , Give me my bent Bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Hold thy peace , thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boasts , If I should cast thee over board , there's but a simple Lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he , That he took his bent bow in his hand , and to the Ship hatch go does he . Master tie me to the Mast , that at my Mark I may stand fair ; And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the very head , and drew it with all might and main , And straightway in the twinkling of and eye does the French men heart the Arrow gain The French-man fell down on the ship-catch and under the Hatches here below , Another French-man that him espy'd , the dead corpse into the Sea does throw . O Master lose me from the Mast , he said and for them all take you no care , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Then they boarded the French Ship , they lying all dead in their sighed , They found within the Ship of War , twelve thousand pound in Money bright . The one half of the ship , said Simon then , i'le give to my Dame and Children small , The other part of the ship , i'le give , to you that are my fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so Simon it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own hands , and the owner thereof you must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this Gold for the oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they did live in peace and rest . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little-Old-BailyE : 302 The Noble Fisher-Man . Or , Robin Hood's preferment ; showing how he wone a prize on the sea , and how he gave one half to his Dame , and the other to the building of Almshouses . The Tune is , In Summer time when leaves grow green . IN summer time when leaves grow green , when they grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw call'd Robin Hood , it is of him I sing my Song - When the Lily sweet and the Elephant , does bud and spring with a merry cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the Woodside , and chasing of the Fallow Deer . The Fishermen brave , more money have , than any Merchant two or three , Therefore I will to Scarbrough go , that I a Fisherman might be . This outlaw called his merry men all , as they sat under the green wood tree , If you have any Gold to spend I pray you heartily spend it with me . Now quoth Robin i'le to Scarbrough go , it seems to be a very fair day , Who took up his Inn at a widow-woman's house , hard by upon the waters grey , Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell to me where thou dost fare , I am a peer Fisherman , said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy name thou fine fellow , I pray thee heartily tell it to me , In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over the Lee. Simon , Simon , said the good wife , I wish thou mayest well brook thy name , The Outlaw was aware of her courtesy , and rejoiced he had god such a Dame . Simon , wilt thou be my man ? and good round wages I will give thee , I have as good a Ship of mine own , as any sails upon the Sea. Anchors and Planks thou shalt not want , Masts and Ropes that are so long , And if thou thus furnish me , said Simon nothing shall go wrong . THey plucked up Anchor and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , When others cast in their baited hooks , the bore Lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long said the Master then , e're this great lubber do thrive on the Sea , I'll assure he shall have no part of our fish , for in truth he is no part worthy . O woe is me , said Simon then , this day that ever I came here , I wish I were in Plompton Park , in chasing of the Fallow Deer . For every Clown laughs me to scorn and they by me set nothing at all , If I had them in Plompton Park , I would set as little by them all . They pluck up Anchor and away did sail more of a day than two or three , But Simon espied a Ship of War that sailed towards them valorously , Oh woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born : For all our fish that we have god , is every bit lost and forlorn , For yond French Robber on the Sea , they will not spare of us one Man , But carry us to the Coast of France , and lay us in the Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither Master take you any care , Give me my bent Bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Hold thy peace , thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boasts , If I should cast thee over board , there's but a simple Lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he , That he took his bent bow in his hand , and to the Ship hatch go does he . Master tie me to the Mast , that at my Mark I may stand fair ; And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the very head , and drew it with all might and main , And straightway in the twinkling of and eye does the French men heart the Arrow gain The French-man fell down on the ship-catch and under the Hatches here below , Another French-man that him espy'd , the dead corpse into the Sea does throw . O Master lose me from the Mast , he said and for them all take you no care , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Then they boarded the French Ship , they lying all dead in their sighed , They found within the Ship of War , twelve thousand pound in Money bright . The one half of the ship , said Simon then , i'le give to my Dame and Children small , The other part of the ship , i'le give , to you that are my fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so Simon it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own hands , and the owner thereof you must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this Gold for the oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they did live in peace and rest . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little-Old-Baily 