A Courtly new ballad of the Princely wooing of the fair Maid of London by King Edward . The tune is Bonny sweet Robin . FAir Angel of England thy beauty most bright , Is all my hearts treasure my joy and delight , Then grant me sweet Lady thy true Love to be That I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so chaste and true in her love By gentle persuasions her fancy will move Then be not entreated sweet Lady in vain , For nature requires what I would obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lived alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one , But be not my darling so chaste in desire , lest thou like the Phoenix do penance in the fire . But alas gentle Lady I pity thy state , In being resolved to live without mate , For if of our Courting the pleasures you know , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued these me to obtain , Yet I am requited with scornful disdain , But if you will grant your good will to me , You shall be advanced to Princely degree . Promotions and honours may often entice , The chastest that lives though never so nice , What woman so worthy but would be content , To live in a Palace where Princes frequent . Two brides young & princely to church I have led , Two Ladies now lately have decked my bed . Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart Then all their contentment's whereof I have part , Your gentle heart connote men's tears much abide , And women left angry when most they do chide Then yield to me kindly and say that at length ; Men do want mercy , and poor women strength . I grant fair Ladies may poor men resist , But princes will conquer and love where they lift , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose features deserveth to be a Kings Bride , In granting your love you shall purchase renown Your head shall be decked with Engl , fair Crown Thy garments with gold most gallantly wrought , If true love for treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall wait on thy train , Most richly attired in Scarlet to grain , My Chamber most princely thy person shall keep , Where virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If any pleasure thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to content For Kings gallant Courts where Ladies do dwell Affords such sweet pastimes as Ladies love well Then be not resolved to die a true maid , But print in thy bosom the words I have said And grant a King favour thy true love to be . That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair maid of Londons answer to King Edwards wanton Love : To same tune . Oh Wanton King Eward thy labour is vain : To follow thy pleasure thou canst not obtain Which getting thou losest and having dost wast it' The which if thou purchase is spoiled if thou hast it But if thou obtainest it , thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet am quite undone , But if of that jewel a King does deceive me , No Kin , can restate , though a kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since you saw me last , My favour is banished , my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes which sets on my cheeks To paleness is turned which all men dislikes , I pass not what Princes for love do protest The name of a Virgin contents me best . I have not deserved to lie by thy side , Nor to be accounted for King Ewards Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy handmaid will have , My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , No he with rich proffers to wantouness brought , If wild wanton Rosamond one as your sort , Had never frequented King Henries brave Court Such heaps of deep sorrow she never did crave , Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman unless she consent . Who then can impute to a man any fault , Who still go uprightly whil'st women do halt , 'Tis counted kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny ; Nor women unconstant can never be prov'd Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If women and modesty once but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever , And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , Ere any man knows my bodies defil'd , No not my old Father's reverned tears , Too great and impression upon my soul bears . Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I die , That any such since upon my soul lie . If he that hath kept me from doing that since My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin , Come rather with pity and weep over my Tomb. Then for my birth curse my dear Mother's womb That brought forth a blossom that stained thee Tree With wanton desires to stain her and me . Leave me most noble King , tempt not in vain My milk white affections with lewdness to stain . Though England will yield me no comfort at all , Yet England will yield me a sad burial . Printed for F . Coles , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . A Courtly new ballad of the Princely wooing of the fair Maid of London by King Edward . The tune is Bonny sweet Robin . FAir Angel of England thy beauty most bright , Is all my hearts treasure my joy and delight , Then grant me sweet Lady thy true Love to be That I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so chaste and true in her love By gentle persuasions her fancy will move Then be not entreated sweet Lady in vain , For nature requires what I would obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lived alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one , But be not my darling so chaste in desire , lest thou like the Phoenix do penance in the fire . But alas gentle Lady I pity thy state , In being resolved to live without mate , For if of our Courting the pleasures you know , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued these me to obtain , Yet I am requited with scornful disdain , But if you will grant your good will to me , You shall be advanced to Princely degree . Promotions and honours may often entice , The chastest that lives though never so nice , What woman so worthy but would be content , To live in a Palace where Princes frequent . Two brides young & princely to church I have led , Two Ladies now lately have decked my bed . Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart Then all their contentment's whereof I have part , Your gentle heart connote men's tears much abide , And women left angry when most they do chide Then yield to me kindly and say that at length ; Men do want mercy , and poor women strength . I grant fair Ladies may poor men resist , But princes will conquer and love where they lift , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose features deserveth to be a Kings Bride , In granting your love you shall purchase renown Your head shall be decked with Engl , fair Crown Thy garments with gold most gallantly wrought , If true love for treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall wait on thy train , Most richly attired in Scarlet to grain , My Chamber most princely thy person shall keep , Where virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If any pleasure thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to content For Kings gallant Courts where Ladies do dwell Affords such sweet pastimes as Ladies love well Then be not resolved to die a true maid , But print in thy bosom the words I have said And grant a King favour thy true love to be . That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair maid of Londons answer to King Edwards wanton Love : To same tune . Oh Wanton King Eward thy labour is vain : To follow thy pleasure thou canst not obtain Which getting thou losest and having dost wast it' The which if thou purchase is spoiled if thou hast it But if thou obtainest it , thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet am quite undone , But if of that jewel a King does deceive me , No Kin , can restate , though a kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since you saw me last , My favour is banished , my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes which sets on my cheeks To paleness is turned which all men dislikes , I pass not what Princes for love do protest The name of a Virgin contents me best . I have not deserved to lie by thy side , Nor to be accounted for King Ewards Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy handmaid will have , My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , No he with rich proffers to wantouness brought , If wild wanton Rosamond one as your sort , Had never frequented King Henries brave Court Such heaps of deep sorrow she never did crave , Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman unless she consent . Who then can impute to a man any fault , Who still go uprightly whil'st women do halt , 'Tis counted kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny ; Nor women unconstant can never be prov'd Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If women and modesty once but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever , And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , Ere any man knows my bodies defil'd , No not my old Father's reverned tears , Too great and impression upon my soul bears . Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I die , That any such since upon my soul lie . If he that hath kept me from doing that since My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin , Come rather with pity and weep over my Tomb. Then for my birth curse my dear Mother's womb That brought forth a blossom that stained thee Tree With wanton desires to stain her and me . Leave me most noble King , tempt not in vain My milk white affections with lewdness to stain . Though England will yield me no comfort at all , Yet England will yield me a sad burial . Printed for F . Coles , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . A Courtly new ballad of the Princely wooing of the fair Maid of London by King Edward . The tune is Bonny sweet Robin . FAir Angel of England thy beauty most bright , Is all my hearts treasure my joy and delight , Then grant me sweet Lady thy true Love to be That I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so chaste and true in her love By gentle persuasions her fancy will move Then be not entreated sweet Lady in vain , For nature requires what I would obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lived alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one , But be not my darling so chaste in desire , lest thou like the Phoenix do penance in the fire . But alas gentle Lady I pity thy state , In being resolved to live without mate , For if of our Courting the pleasures you know , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued these me to obtain , Yet I am requited with scornful disdain , But if you will grant your good will to me , You shall be advanced to Princely degree . Promotions and honours may often entice , The chastest that lives though never so nice , What woman so worthy but would be content , To live in a Palace where Princes frequent . Two brides young & princely to church I have led , Two Ladies now lately have decked my bed . Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart Then all their contentment's whereof I have part , Your gentle heart connote men's tears much abide , And women left angry when most they do chide Then yield to me kindly and say that at length ; Men do want mercy , and poor women strength . I grant fair Ladies may poor men resist , But princes will conquer and love where they lift , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose features deserveth to be a Kings Bride , In granting your love you shall purchase renown Your head shall be decked with Engl , fair Crown Thy garments with gold most gallantly wrought , If true love for treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall wait on thy train , Most richly attired in Scarlet to grain , My Chamber most princely thy person shall keep , Where virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If any pleasure thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to content For Kings gallant Courts where Ladies do dwell Affords such sweet pastimes as Ladies love well Then be not resolved to die a true maid , But print in thy bosom the words I have said And grant a King favour thy true love to be . That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair maid of Londons answer to King Edwards wanton Love : To same tune . Oh Wanton King Eward thy labour is vain : To follow thy pleasure thou canst not obtain Which getting thou losest and having dost wast it' The which if thou purchase is spoiled if thou hast it But if thou obtainest it , thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet am quite undone , But if of that jewel a King does deceive me , No Kin , can restate , though a kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since you saw me last , My favour is banished , my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes which sets on my cheeks To paleness is turned which all men dislikes , I pass not what Princes for love do protest The name of a Virgin contents me best . I have not deserved to lie by thy side , Nor to be accounted for King Ewards Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy handmaid will have , My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , No he with rich proffers to wantouness brought , If wild wanton Rosamond one as your sort , Had never frequented King Henries brave Court Such heaps of deep sorrow she never did crave , Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman unless she consent . Who then can impute to a man any fault , Who still go uprightly whil'st women do halt , 'Tis counted kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny ; Nor women unconstant can never be prov'd Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If women and modesty once but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever , And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , Ere any man knows my bodies defil'd , No not my old Father's reverned tears , Too great and impression upon my soul bears . Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I die , That any such since upon my soul lie . If he that hath kept me from doing that since My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin , Come rather with pity and weep over my Tomb. Then for my birth curse my dear Mother's womb That brought forth a blossom that stained thee Tree With wanton desires to stain her and me . Leave me most noble King , tempt not in vain My milk white affections with lewdness to stain . Though England will yield me no comfort at all , Yet England will yield me a sad burial . Printed for F . Coles , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . A Courtly new ballad of the Princely wooing of the fair Maid of London by King Edward . The tune is Bonny sweet Robin . FAir Angel of England thy beauty most bright , Is all my hearts treasure my joy and delight , Then grant me sweet Lady thy true Love to be That I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so chaste and true in her love By gentle persuasions her fancy will move Then be not entreated sweet Lady in vain , For nature requires what I would obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lived alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one , But be not my darling so chaste in desire , lest thou like the Phoenix do penance in the fire . But alas gentle Lady I pity thy state , In being resolved to live without mate , For if of our Courting the pleasures you know , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued these me to obtain , Yet I am requited with scornful disdain , But if you will grant your good will to me , You shall be advanced to Princely degree . Promotions and honours may often entice , The chastest that lives though never so nice , What woman so worthy but would be content , To live in a Palace where Princes frequent . Two brides young & princely to church I have led , Two Ladies now lately have decked my bed . Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart Then all their contentment's whereof I have part , Your gentle heart connote men's tears much abide , And women left angry when most they do chide Then yield to me kindly and say that at length ; Men do want mercy , and poor women strength . I grant fair Ladies may poor men resist , But princes will conquer and love where they lift , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose features deserveth to be a Kings Bride , In granting your love you shall purchase renown Your head shall be decked with Engl , fair Crown Thy garments with gold most gallantly wrought , If true love for treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall wait on thy train , Most richly attired in Scarlet to grain , My Chamber most princely thy person shall keep , Where virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If any pleasure thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to content For Kings gallant Courts where Ladies do dwell Affords such sweet pastimes as Ladies love well Then be not resolved to die a true maid , But print in thy bosom the words I have said And grant a King favour thy true love to be . That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair maid of Londons answer to King Edwards wanton Love : To same tune . Oh Wanton King Eward thy labour is vain : To follow thy pleasure thou canst not obtain Which getting thou losest and having dost wast it' The which if thou purchase is spoiled if thou hast it But if thou obtainest it , thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet am quite undone , But if of that jewel a King does deceive me , No Kin , can restate , though a kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since you saw me last , My favour is banished , my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes which sets on my cheeks To paleness is turned which all men dislikes , I pass not what Princes for love do protest The name of a Virgin contents me best . I have not deserved to lie by thy side , Nor to be accounted for King Ewards Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy handmaid will have , My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , No he with rich proffers to wantouness brought , If wild wanton Rosamond one as your sort , Had never frequented King Henries brave Court Such heaps of deep sorrow she never did crave , Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman unless she consent . Who then can impute to a man any fault , Who still go uprightly whil'st women do halt , 'Tis counted kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny ; Nor women unconstant can never be prov'd Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If women and modesty once but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever , And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , Ere any man knows my bodies defil'd , No not my old Father's reverned tears , Too great and impression upon my soul bears . Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I die , That any such since upon my soul lie . If he that hath kept me from doing that since My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin , Come rather with pity and weep over my Tomb. Then for my birth curse my dear Mother's womb That brought forth a blossom that stained thee Tree With wanton desires to stain her and me . Leave me most noble King , tempt not in vain My milk white affections with lewdness to stain . Though England will yield me no comfort at all , Yet England will yield me a sad burial . Printed for F . Coles , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . 